William Brayton Ogden
Grand Master 1939-1940

William Brayton Ogden was born of Am'erican parentage in Picton,
Canada, August 26, 1876. He received his primary education in the public
schools of Chicago and in the Colorado State Preparatory School, then
entered the University of Colorado, graduating in 1896 with the degree
of LL.B. On June 18, 1911, he was married to Alta May Swartwout and
they have one son, Robert Ogden. He came to Hollywood, California, in
1910, and has resided ·there continuously since that date, carrying on the
practice of the law and specializing in mining, water and corporation law.
Initiated March 14, 1918, passed April 18, 1918, and raised May 23,
1918, in Hollywood Lodge No. 355, F. & A. M., Grand Master Ogden
served as its Master in 1925 and was appointed Inspector of the 77th Masonic District in 1926, serving in that capacity until 1936. In 1936 he was
a member of the Committee on Grievances of Grand Lodge and was also
appointed Grand Orator and delivered the annual address at the communication of 1937.
In 1937 he was elected Junior Grand Warden; in 1938 Senior Grand
Warden, and in 1939 he was elected Grand Master of Masons in California, being the 73rd Grand Master in this jurisdiction.
Our seventy-third Grand Master is a member of Hollywood Chapter
No. 120, R. A. M., Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine, Hollywood Chapter
No. 209 of the Eastern Star, and holds the rank of Knight Commander of
the Court of Honor, Scottish Rite, Los Angeles. In 1929 he was appointed
Grand Representative of the National Grand Lodge of Egypt near the
Grand Lodge of California, and is still serving in that capacity. . ·
For many years he has served the Masons of Los Angeles as Trustee
of the Los Angeles Board of Relief, Inc., better known as the Bush Estate.
He organized the Masters of Los Angeles Lodges during the year 1925
into the Quarter Century Club and has acted as its president since that
time. During his year as Grand Master he established an unique record
for service by traveling over 40,000 miles, visiting every Masonic District
under his jurisdiction. During his travels he spoke to over 30,000 Masons
and to over 10,000 members of the Eastern Star.
In · addition to his Masonic activities he was president of the Alumni
Association of Delta Tau Delta in 1916; he is a member of the University
Club in Los Angeles, the State Bar of California and the American Bar
Association. He is an active member of the St. Thomas Episcopal Church
in Hollywood, where he has served as vestryman and treasurer. He is a
member of the Republican party.

WILLIAM BRAYTON OGDEN
Grand Master

1939

@r anb JLobgt of <tl:alifornia
I, ]OHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary of the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby certify that
the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of
that body at its ninety-first Annual Conununication, commenced at the city of
San Francisco, on Tuesd~y, the 8th day of October, A. L. 5940, and terminated
on Friday the 11 th day of October, A. L. 5940.

Jn 'QI;e~timonp mllbtrtof
I have hereunto appended my official signatur e and have affixed the
seal of the Grand Lodge of the
jurisdiction of California, at the
office of the Grand Secretary, this
twenty-ninth day of October, in the
year of Light, five thousand nine
hundred and forty.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE

·jfree anb ~ccepteb Jflason~
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Ninety-first Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 8, A. D. 1940, A. L. 5940
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 11, A. D. 1940, A. L. 5940.

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, Printer, 447 Sansome Street
1940

GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ttepteb ftlasons
OF THE

J URISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

NI NETY-FI RST ANN UAL COMMUNICAT IO N

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its ninetyfirst Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, Van Ness
Avenue and Oak Street, San Francisco, on Tuesday, October 8,
A. L. 5940, at 10 :00 o'clock A. M.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following :
Officers of Grand Lodge
M.'. W: . WILLIAM B. 0GDEN..•:.•••••••.•~.....................................................Grand Master
R.·. w.·. LLOYD E. WILSON........................................................Deputy Grand Master
R:. W:. FRANK M. SMITH .••,.•...•••..••..•••.•..•..•.•••••••......••••...••Senior Grand Warden
R.·. w.·. LESLIE E. WooD•.•..•.. :..•............•.••••••.••.••••..•.•...•......•... Junior Grand Warden
V.'. W.'. WILLIAM P. FILMER•..•••..•.••••.•.•••...•....••••.•..........•..••.••..•...••Grand Treasurer
V. ·. W. ·.JOHN WHICHER......................................................................Grand Secretary
v.·. w.·. WALTER LEONARD••••.•.~......................................., •.••.·...............Grand Lecturer
v: ·. R. •• ARTHUR H. WURTELE............................................................Grand Chaplain
w.·. LEO E. ANDERSON......................................................................Grand Orator
W. ·.HENRY D. 0LIPHAN:T•...••••..••.•••••••••••.•••••••••••...•Assistant Grand Secretary
w.·. DUDLEY F. BLACK....................................................................Grand Marshal
w.·. ALEX D . POTTs..........................................................Grand Standard Bearer
W. · .ALDEN AMES .................................................................. Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·. HERMAN E. BENNETT.....•....•••.••.•..•••.•••••.•••.••••.•••••......•.••Grand Bible Bearer
w.·. ToM ~ASON............................................;.....................Senior Grand Deacon
W:. ROBERT P. WISECARVER............... ....................., ••.•.•..•..'1mior Grand Deacon
W . •• JosEPH L . SHELL•.•..•.•.....•.••••...••••••.•.•••.•••••••••.••••.....•.Senior Grand Steward
W. ·.]OE BooKMAN.......•.•.•.......•..•.••.••••••...••..•••••...••....•••••••.lunior Grand Steward
W. ·.JOHN Kl.ARQUIST................................................................ Grand Pursuivant
w.·. CHARLES E. ANDERSON ..........................................................Grand Organist
w.·. RALPH K. MiABSHALL....•.:...........................................................Grand Tiler

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Past Grand Masters

M:. w:. DANA R. WELLER
M:. w:. WILLIAM P. FILMER
M.". w:. ]OHN D. MURPHEY

M:. w:. WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
M:. w:. BRADFORD WEBSTER

w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M:. w:. ARTHUR s. CRITES
M:. w:. ALBERT E. BOYNTON
M:. w:. GEORGE L. }ONES

M.".

M.". w:. SAMUELE. BURKE

M:. w:. WILL H. FISCHER

w:. CHAS. M. WOLLENBERG
M:. w:.]oHN STEWART Ross
M:. w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M.". w:. FRANK w. MIXTER
M:. w.·. }AMES B. GIST
M:. w:. RANDOLPH v. WHITING
M:. w:. EARL WARREN
M:. w:. ROLLIE w. MILLER
M:. w:. }AMES T. FRASER
M:. w:. LEON c. WHITSELL
M.".

And 1475 officers and representatives from 565 chartered
Lodges and delegates from three Lodges U. D.
Arid Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
Distinguished Visitors
M.". W:. George P. Coleman, Grand Master of Nevada

M:. W:. E. C. Peterson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Nevada

W:. William B. Pettus, Past Master of International Lodge, Pieping,
China, Past District Grand Warden, China, Massachusetts jurisdiction
'
W:. Manley C. Jensen, Past Master Ancient Landmark, Shanghai, China,
Past District Grand Warden, China, Massachusetts jurisdiction
W.". Roy C. Bryan, Grand Representative of the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands, near the Grand Lodge of California

Brother Pettus presented to Grand Lodge a copy of the Bible
published entirely in the Chinese language, requesting that it
be held each year by the Lodge which has rendered the best
service to Masonic charity, and it was accepted in that spirit.

Greetings
Greetings were received from Past Grand Master Keesling;
Frank K. Ebbitt of Ontario, Canada; William G. Kirkham, president of the Masonic Clubhouse Council, Masonic Clubhouse,
Berkeley; and C. A. Carlson, Jr., Past Grand Master of Nevada ..

Devotional Services
(The altar was graced by a copy ·of the Holy Bible, sent here
by the .Grand Lodge of Rhode Island, to be rededicated by the
Grand Lodge of California, reference being had thereto in the
following remarks by V.". Rev. A.H. Wurtele, Grand Chaplain.)

GRAND LODGE 'OF CALIFOR!\'lA

9

My brethren of Grand Lodge:

Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free. These words
were spoken by the great Nazarene, and again he said "I am the way, the truth
and the life." In Masonic ritual we say "truth is a divine attribute and the
foundation of every virtue." To be good and true is the first lesson taught
in Masonry. "Magna est veritas et prevablit" (Mighty is the truth and it
will prevail). What the world needs today is the realization of truth as
a permanent factor in life that no dictator or unbeliever can destroy. Where
shall we look for the truth? It is not found from the noisy radio or the
controlled press or the propaganda manufactories, but it is found in religion and in Masonry, in the hearts of honest men and in that wonderful
book opened in the center of every Lodge of Freemasons. Here upon this
book, which is the word of truth and God, our most solemn obligations are
made. The Holy Bible is to Masonr'y what conscience is to man, the guide
of life for, as the psalmist says, "Thy word is truth." In an age where the
Bible has been almost forgotten and its teachings disregarded or lost, as
in some countries in darkest Europe, we must not be· surprised at recent
developments in the so-called civilized old world. Once we spoke of "Darkest Africa," and I remember as a boy reading "Stanley in Darkest Africa."
And today we can speak of "Darkest Europe," not only because of. the
blackouts in its teeming cities, but because of heinous barbaric methods
of modern warfare, that kill more· imr«Xent .civilians, more men, wome~ and
little children than soldiers, and ,so by comparison are mo.re .savage · and
brutal than any of the horrors of the most uncivilized African tribe met
by Henry M. Stanley.
'"
If we turn to the Holy Bible we will find in the Book of Revelation of
St. John the Divine, some of the most remarkable prophesies that are
strange but true. In the 16th chapter we have a description of the great
battle of Armageddon, and in the events leading up to it we read (Revelaation xvi-13:14) "I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the
mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth
of the false prophet. For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles,
which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather
them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.'' Ultimately the victory
is won only by sacrifice of property, the destruction of homes and loss of
human lives. No wonder that Sherman defi·ned war as "Hell" and he did not
k11ow anything of modern destructive machines like Stukas sent · to destroy
innocent cities, nor of the modern devil-fish that can destroy boats laden
with little children on their way to the New World.
Masonry has, I believe, a definite function of tremendous value to perform
in these days of anxiety, by testifying to the reality of God as the great hope
of mankind. Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free.
Belief in God is not only a fundamental essential in a well-ordered life, but
in the passage of history it should be noted that those nations who believed
in God and followed the Bible rather than force are the ones that have
rendered the greatest contributions to mankind . .
Where there is faith in God as the father of mankind, there develops
a corresponding and supplemental belief in the brotherhood of man. It is
therefore natural and logical that Masonry is one of the best expressions of
fraternal life, for God has made of one blood all nations of men. Masonry
belongs to the people, and within the Lodge distinctions are forgotten when
king and subjects are called by the magic word of "Brother.'' It is said when
General -Washington, during the War of the Revolution, would visit a
Lodge his title was forgotten and he was just a plain brother to all brethren
of the Craft.

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Democracy Owes a Great Debt to Masonry
Masonry has been called the cornerstone of democratic government.
Masonry and freedom are almost synonymous terms and so, too, are the
words preparedness and peace. Through all the difficulties of the past
history of the American nation Masonry has been the guardian of the truth,
protecting the rights of the people and standing "for the hig?est ideals of
American citizenship. Many Presidents, from George Washmgton down,
have been worthy members of the Craft.
In that most dignified body that is the judicial fortress of the Constitution, the Supreme Court of the United States, the majority have been
Masons. Go to what is facetiously called "the cave of the winds," where
the Senate sits, and there, as in the House of Representatives, an overwhelming majority are members of the Craft. Masonry belongs to the
people and has become an expression of the people's belief in democratic
government. No wonder that Masonry is outlawed in Italy and Germany,
or wherever dictators hold sway.
The only important countries left in the modern world where Freemasonry is welcomed, honored, and respected, will be found among the
democracies of the English speaking people--in the old motherland, where
the Grand Lodge of England still meets regularly in spite of bombs and
shells and blackouts, but witq the sign up, "business goes on as usual."
Besides the people of England and. its colonies, there is the greatest of
all modern republics, the United States of America, with its Masonic Lodges
in all states and cities, in rural sections and in its far-flung possessions.
England and America are united in Masonic fraternity:
Two empires by the sea,
Two peoples great and free,
One antkem raise.
One race of ancient fame,
One tongue, one faith, we claim
One God, whose glorious name
We love and praise.

tempo of the country was changed. A new conception of life and of man
superseded the old. A new and moral impulse spread through every class.

10

The Traveling Bible
It is most appropriate, and I believe, a most significa.nt occ_asio~ for
us at this communication of the Grand Lodge of Masons m Cahforma to
publicly pay tribute to the power of the Word of God by receiving the
Sacred Book of the Law and the accompanying brochure in these rededication exercises. At the conclusion of this Grand Lodge, and its stay in
California: it will be sent to Brother Adolph S. Walter, Right Worshipful Deput~ Grand Master of New Mexico, that it may be used .there for
similar services of dedication when the Grand Lodge of New Mexico m.e ets
in Santa Fe.
The Holy Bible is the book of truth, indisputable and eternal. Bob
Ingersoll predicted that it would pass into ob_livion in a. few. years, but
today it is still the most popular book in America. The Bible 1s the wo~d
of God, proclaiming truth, life ~nd liberty for a!l p~ople. J_. 1:1· Green, m
his Shorter History of the English People, says m his description of latter
days in the 16th ce~tury, that "England became the people of a Book,
and the Book was the Bible."
Perhaps it is worthy of note that this was ~he beginni_ng of E~gland's
rise as a great world power, rather than to remam a petty msular kmgdom.
He says further: "The effect of the Bible was simply amazing." The whole

11

Our own Theodore Roosevelt said : "No other book ever written in any
other tongue has ever affected the whole life of a people as the authorized
version of the Scriptures has affected the li,v es of the English-speaking peoples." President Andrew Jackson said: "The Bible is the rock upon which
our republic rests." George Washington said: "It is impossible to govern
the world without the Bible."
We as Masons are the guardians of this Sacred Law and today, when
totalitarian ideas are challenging all that we hold dear, let us remember
that through the ages the Bible has been a lighthouse amid raging storms
that has continued to give her welcome guiding beams to enable men to
escape the dangerous reefs of disaster, and to steer safely to the more tranquil waters of brotherhood and peace.
It is indeed a sorry picture that 'faces us when we look across the seas
and behold the wrecks of free governments. The sun of liberty has set in
many countries, but let us hope that as soon as the dark ·night of oppres"
sion has passed there will be a dawn of a better day for mankind.
"Our world is in its autumn, and apparently destined to pass through
some kind of winter before its Easter comes," says Walter Marshall Horton in his new book, "Can Christianity Save Civilization?"

It is with that objective in view that we as Masons look forward to
the future, for "behind the dim unknown standeth God within the shadow
keeping watch above his own."
'
Masonry in its lifelong struggle to uphold the truth and to protect
the people from oppression has become so closely connected with democratic governments that any defeat of England would not only be a catastrophe for democracy, but would mean the banishment of freedom and of
Freemasonry in the land of the Magna Charta; and further, let us not for- ·
get that a similar fate to that of our brethren in France's once proud republic would face us as Masons if the dictators of Europe could gain a
stronghold in this western hemisphere.
As long as the Holy Bible is the inspiration of our nation and as long
as Freemasons uphold their ideals of justice and freedom for all people,
America is safe and truth and freedom will prevail. Because Europe forgot
the lesson of the Bible and failed in its adherence to the truth, neglecting
the mystic power of religion, what do we find as a result? Its people today
are in serfdom, under the three evil spirits mentioned in Revelations. It
is God's truth that makes men free. Ye shall know the truth and the truth
shall make you free. In these services of rededication let us, my brethren
of Grand Lodge, rededicate ourselves to God and country, testifying to our
unswerving belief in the ultimate victory of religion and democracy, because within our hearts we know our cause is just. We have in every
Lodge our Bible and our national banner. Not a flag of a single color like
the red flag of communism, but we pledge our allegiance to the flag of the
red and the white and the blue of America, united, to which as Masons
may we ever be true, one nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for
all.
In the words of a popular patriotic song sung by all gatherings of
those political parties by which a true democracy functions, let these sentiments ring in every heart:

12

!"

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

While the storm clouds gather far across the sea,
Let us swear allegiance to a land that's free.
Let us be grateful for a land so fair,
As we raise our voices in solemn prayer,
God bless America, land that I love,
Stand beside her and guide her
Through the night with a light from above;
From the mountains, to the prairies,
To the- ocean white with . foam,
God bless America, my ,home sweet home.
And may we as Masons never forget the words of Christ:
"Ye shall know the truth arld · t~·e truth shall make · you free."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

13

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:

This is my final message to you. The term for which you elected me
the titular head of the Craft in this great jurisdiction draws near to a close;
the Masonic year has ended; we, who have served you since the last annual
communication, come to· you with our reports, our recommendations and our
orders and decisions. I trust you will find that our acts and activities have
been well within the authority with which you entrusted us, and in accordance with Masonic· traditions. and teachings.
It has been a busy, fruitful, interesting and instructive year. The program laid out at the beginning of the year has been completed with gratifying results. To me, personally, it has been a year of pleasant service, a
year whose pathway has been strewn with the blossoms of loving acts of
kindness, courtesy and fraternal regard on the part of the brethren, the
perfume of which will come to me again and again in memory as I travel
down the years to that bourne whence no traveler returns.
The jurisdiction is so large that in traveling the length and breadth of
it, as I have done, one meets with every climatic and social condition; from
the tropics of Hawaii and sub-tropics of Southern California to the High Sierras where snow banks in summer are not an uncommon sight; from the mining
camps and small rural communities to the great cities~ from the interior
tle.sert country to the coastal regions of the Pacific; from the citrus groves
and gardens created and fostered by the hand of man to nature's own
towering forests of sequoias and redwoods; each has its own peculiar beauty
and attractiveness. And in such travels one meets Masons of every class
and distinction but · united by the great tie of Masonry, and the urge for
the spiritual side of life for which it stands.
Necrology
The year has not passed without its sorrows and losses as well as its
pleasures and gains. Our Necrology Committee will in due time report upon
our losses, and Grand Lodge will pause in its deliberations to do honor to
our dead. We cannot, however, leave the subject without at this time mentioning the death of our M.'. W.'. Brother William A. Sherman, P. G. M.,
that of M.'. W.'. Brother William H. Waste, who was, at our last annual
communication, elected Grand Master but who, on account of ill health,
.·was forced to decline the office, and that of W.". Brother Frank G. Hobbs,
Assistant Grand Secretary. Each of these distinguished Brothers had devoted more than a quarter of a century to the work of the Craft and their
absence from their accustomed places in Grand Lodge for the first time in
many years is the occasion for sincere expression of sorrow. We should
also note the passing of M.'. W.'. Brother .Orrin S. Henderson, P. G. M.,
who, owing to illness, has not been with us for many years.
Suspensions
The Lodges throughout the jurisdiction are almost without exception
in a healthy condition. The usual number of petitions are being received,
and in addition many brethren who through adverse circumstances during
the past ten years were forced to take <limits, or who through false pride
suffered themselves to be suspended, have now rehabilitated themselves
financially and are returning. Among this group of more tha·n twenty thou-

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sand Masons who have been dropped from the rolls are thousands who need
only the extension of the hand of fellowship to bring them back into the
fold. I have advocated that each Brother make himself a committee of one
to extend that hand of fellowship to any worthy Mason whom he may
know, and that our Lodges make easy their return always remembering
that the intervening dues were accumulated at a time when the Brother
did not enjoy the full privilege of membership.
Such as are added to our rolls in this way, come to us with a full
knowledge of Masonry and what it stands for, and moreover they are
re-elected after having been tested and found worthy of membership by
previous years of attendance and participation in our work and fellowship.
They are returning of their own free will and accord and with a full knowledge of their need of Masonry. They come to us with a memory of what
they have missed during their absence from our meetings and such growth
is worthwhile, substantial and permanent.
Owing to the many suspensions we will again show a small loss of
membership. Many of the brethren permit themselves to be suspended
purely through neglect, knowing that for a period of two years their
restoration is the simple matter of tendering the amount for which they
were suspended. But on the other hand, I am convinced, that hundreds
are suspended every year who should not be suspended at all. This results
from inefficiency on the part of the committees on delinquents in many
cases. No member should be suspended without a personal interview. Too
many Lodges consider the matter closed when the Secretary announces,
"He does not answer my letters," but the Brother perhaps does not relish
the thought of putting in writing his real condition. Many hundreds of
brethren annually could and should be saved to our membership rolls if
the members of these committees· would endeavor to personally interview
each delinquent. We have a Masonic duty to perform if the delinquency
is due to the unfortunate condition of the Brother; we have the duty of
remitting the dues in every case where sickness or inability to pay is the
cause of the neglect. In those cases where there is no particular desire on
the part of the delinquent to remain a member, and the neglect is as much
due to this cause as to his inability to pay, nothing would be gained by his
remaining a member and suspension is the proper remedy.

as a part of the annual programs of our District Officers' Associations, a
study of the Digest sufficient at least to enable the officers to know where to
look for the Masonic law concerning any given subject. Facility in the use
of this important work will lessen not only the labors of the Grand Master
and Inspectors, but also that of the officers themselves.
I was greatly surprised as well as disappointed to find that many of our
Inspectors are not holding District meetings of their officers. These meetings can and should be of great value to the officers in an educational way.
The purpose is not served where the meetings are held for social or ritualistic purposes only. The primary purpose should be the advancement of the
officers Masonically' by means of discussions of Masonic law, customs, traditions, history and teachings.

14

Finances
With two or three exceptions, I am happy to report that the financial
difficulties of our Lodges are gradually being solved. It is reported, one
has resorted to the Bankruptcy Court for relief. I find nothing Masonically
illegal in taking such a step but I question the propriety of such action,
especially, if thereby is expressed the desire or hope to discharge its obligations without payment in full of publicly held indebtedness; and I am of the
further opinion, that Grand Lodge by proper action should discourage such
proceedings in the future unless ample provision be made for the payment
of all indebtedness held by others than Masons.
District Officers Meetings
The year passed with few requests for decisions by the Grand Master.
When requests were made for decisions, almost without exception, a new
factual situation was presented or the interpretation of a new feature of our
law was called for. Thus gradually is demonstrated the real worth of that
monumental work of M.". 'vV." . Brother John Stewart Ross, P . G. M. As
officers of Lodges become more familiar with the use of Ross' Digest, the
work of the Grand Master and his deputies, the Inspectors, will be greatly
lessened. The Inspectors can be of great assistance in this by prescribing

Physical Qualifications
With a single exception, the constituent Lodges of this jurisdiction, so
far as has come to my attention, have complied in. every respect with our
Masonic Law. That single exception was in the case of one which elected a
petitioner who was physically disqualified and thereafter conferred on said
candidate the three degrees of Masonry. The candidate had lost a leg
between the hip and knee and was physically unable to comply without the
aid of artificial means. The Inspector was informed of the facts after the
conferring of the second and before the conferring of the third degree. The
Inspector and some two hundred visiting brethren attended the conferring
of the third degree. I accepted the resignation of the Inspector, reprimanded
the Lodge and suspended the Master from office.
There seemed to be no alternative. Had there been I would gladly have
adopted a less drastic course. As long as our law remains as it is, wilful
disregard of its provisions cannot be ignored. It is argued that it is better
to have wooden legs than wooden heads, but it just won't do to have both.
Wooden legs are easily detected, but unfortunately for the Fraternity,
wooden heads are not as readily discernible.
Masonic Interest
I have traveled in pursuance of my duties a distance of more than
40,000 miles, and have addressed groups exceeding in the aggregate a total
of 30,000. It speaks highly for the Masonic interest of the brethren of the
Lodges that such a large proportion of the total membership should thus
have gathered for Masonic fellowship and instruction . .There were several
instances where brethren traveled more than a hundred miles to be present
and would have a like distance to make on the return journey, in one instance over narrow, crooked mountain roads. Again, I say, it speaks well
for Masonry. I have been received throughout the jurisdiction with every
courtesy and honor due the titular head of the Craft and the year has been
one of pleasing contacts and interesting labors.
Masonic Meetings
It gives me pleasure to report that the Grand Master has visited every

one of the one hundred and nineteen Masonic Districts in the jurisdiction.
In the cities, I have been received in one or more joint meetings of the
several Districts, in the less populated sections in individual Districts, and in
many instances, by individual Lodges. The aggregate number of gatherings
which I have addressed Masonically is 151.
By dispensation, Canby Cross Lodge No. 679 invited Silver Trowel
Lodge No. 28 of Phoenix, Arizona, to confer the third degree upon the
latter's candidate and according to the Arizona ritual, ·at a Special Meeting

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of Canby Cross Lodge to be held at Prisoner's Rock in the Modoc Lava
Beds on Saturday, July 13, 1940.
By dispensation Midway Lodge No. 426 of Taft was granted permission to hold a Special Meeting for the purpose of conferring the third degree
upon a candidate on top of Mt. Abel, a high mountain in the southwestern
portion of Kern county on August 17, 1940.
Both of these Special Meetings were largely attended and much enjoyed by the brethren who were fortunate enough to be present. It is my
opinion that such convocations are good for the Craft but should not be
permitted to grow in number to a point where they no longer serve a useful
purpose.
At the Canby Cross Lodge meeting there were 1179 Master Masons
in attendance from 237 Lodges of thirty-one jurisdictions. Among those
present were two Grand Masters, one Deputy Grand Master · and thirteen
Past Grand Masters besides many ·present Grand Lodge officers from Washington, Oregon, Nevada; Arizona and California.
At the Mt. Abel meeting under the auspices of Midway Lodge No. 426
the evening ceremony was preceded by an afternoon of entertainment and
a barbecue supper. The enterta.inment was furnished by the "23.3 Club," an
organization comp05ed of active Masons engaged in the moving picture industry. They also took part in the conferring of the third degree in the
evening. More than a thousand Master Masons were in attendance and a
substantial sum was netted for the Endowment Fund from the suppers
served.
Many of our Lodges have a: custom of exchanging visits with certain
either Lodges and such visits I believe should be encouraged as they engi:·nder closer'· ties between the brethren. In my opinion, inter jurisdictional
1r'isits are especially worthwhile.
·

Even beyond the horizon of Hawaii extends the activities of the Masons
of California. As the great birds of the trans-Pacific air fleet flit from island
to island, crews of skilled mechanics must watchfully care for them. Upon
Midway Island, the next port of landing west from the Hawaiian Islands,
will be . found such a group permanently stationed, and there, they have
formed a Masonic Club for their pleasure and improvement as well as
that of Masonic passengers making use of the Clipper service.

16

Hawaiian Islands
The month of January was devoted to the visit to the Hawaiian Island
Lodges; a journey never to be forgotten; a hospitality no where else to be
found; friendships made, the memories of which will linger and add spice
and perfume to the hours of retrospection through all the years to come.
The time assigned to this message on the program of Grand Lodge would
not suffice to relate the many courtesies and kindnesses of our Island
brethren to Mrs. Ogden and myself. I can here express only our appreciation of the thoughtfulness for our pleasure and comfort displayed by those
two outstanding men and Masons, the Inspectors of the I02nd and 103rd
Masonic Districts, and their charming wives. Our stay was programmed
and arranged from the moment of arrival until our departure ·in the most
ple'a sing, educational and comfortable manner and nothing was done, or
left undone, to mar in the least the enchantment of the three weeks spent in
the Paradise of the Pacific.
Not the least enjoyable part of the time spent on the Islands was that
devoted to a study of the history of the Lodges and their members. Lodge
le Progres de l'Oceanie celebrated its 98th anniversary in April of this
year. It is the oldest Lodge west of the Missouri river and a biography of ·
its members would almost co.ver the history of the Hawaiian Islands since
the arrival of the white man. Another Lodge with an equally important
membership is Hawaiian No. 21. Our Masonic History committee has on
display some interesting papers and portraits of Masters furnished by these
two Lodges. Masonry is strong in the Islands and among Its members will
be found the leaders in all walks of .life.

17

Employment Bureaus
I returned from the Islands just in time to participate in the annual
breakfast meeting devoted to the interests of the Los Angeles Masonic
Employment Bureau, a department in the Los Angeles Masonic Board of
Relief. There are seventeen boards of relief in the jurisdiction. Seven of
these have employment bureaus.
The work of these employment bureaus is outstanding. We do well
when we relieve the distress of a Brother by a gift of money, food, clothing,
or housing, but such relief is· temporary, and the need a recurring one, and
while for the time being it may satisfy the needs of the physical man it adds
nothing to his moral stamina or spiritual well being. The future is still dark.
But. give him a job where he can earn the money wherewith to procure for
himself and those dependent upon him those self same things and you not
only make provision for his physical needs but you contribute mightily to his
spiritual needs. You have put him on his feet; you have re-spiritualized
him; you have given him a future to which he may look forward instead of
the blank wall of adversity which theretofore had faced him. While we
have salaried employees in charge of this admirable work, nevertheless, it is
a work in which every Mason can be helpful. These breakfasts in the
several sections of the state are the means of communicating to the brethren
wherein they may be of service, as well as being occasions for the outflowing of much good fellowship and fraternal regard.
It was my good fortune to be able to attend similar breakfast meetings
arranged by the several employment 1>.ureaus at Long Beach, Sacramento,
Berkeley and Fresno: The large attendance at each of these meetings indicated the interest of the brethren in this so worthwhile work of Masonry.
St. John's Day Breakfasts
The ancient custom of celebrating the anniversary of St. John the
Baptist is being revived in many Lodges and Districts with very beneficial
results. These celebrations hjive taken the form of Sunday morniiig breakfast meetings whiFh assemble at an hour that will permit, the breakfast concluded, of a program of appropriate music and an inspirational address, and
the meeting is usually adjourned 'by ten' o'clock. Such gatherings in honor of
our patron Saint ·deserve the commendation and support of the Craft.
Special Communications of Grand Lodge
On Saturday, October 21, 1939, I presided at the ceremony of the opening of a new Lodge at Barstow to be known as Barstow Lodge U. D., dispensation having been granted just prior to our last annual communication
by M:.
Brother Leon 0. Whitsell. There were more than 240 brethren
present. Our Grand Bible Bearer, Grand Marshal, Senior Grand Deacon,
Junior Grand Steward, Grand Pursuivant, and two members of the Charters
committee accompanied the Grand Master and all felt amply repaid for the
lo~g journey.
·
· On the same day Grand Lodge was convened at Lynwood for the
purpose of laying the corner stone of Lynwood Masonic Temple. I requested
W:. Brother Lawrence C. Kelley,' Inspector of the 84th District to act as

w:.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Master. On January 27, 1940, Grand Lodge was again convened at
Lynwood for the purpose of dedicating the Masonic Hall. R.". W:. Frank
M. Smith, Senior Grand Warden, presided in my absence.
On October 28 1939 Grand Lodge was convened at Coalinga for the
purpose of laying the co;ner stone of Coalinga _High School. Bei.ng unable
to attend, I requested R:. W:. Brother Leshe E. Wood, Jumor Grand
Warden to act as Grand Master.
On November 9 1939 I convened Grand Lodge at Dos Palos for the
purpose of constitutlng D~s Palos Lodge No. 681, a charter having be~n
granted at our last annual communication. More than 200 brethren were. m
attendance including the Deputy Grand Master, the Grand Orator, Sem~r
Grand Deacon, Junior Grand Deacon, Junior Grand Steward, Grand Pursmvant and a number of Committeemen and Inspectors.
special communication of Grand Lodge was convened at Kahului on
the Island of Maui, on May 4, 1940, for the purpose of laying the corner
stone of the Henry Perrine Baldwin High School. At my request, w:.
Brother Charles A. Shepherd, Inspector of the 102nd Masonic District, acted
as Grand Master.
Grand Lodge was specially convened at Placerville on September 14,
1940 for the purpose of laying the corner stone of the new Post Office
builtling at that place. R.". W:. Brother Leslie E. Wood, Junior Grand
Warden, acted as Grand Master at my request.

In the town of Trona and nearby live upwards of two hundred Masons.
The nearest Lodge is distant. one hundred and five miles. In the neighbor·hood of two thousand men are employed at the several potash works within
a radius of a few miles of the proposed Lodge. They will ask that their
Dispensation be continued untif the next annual communication and I
heartily recommend such action on the part of Grand Lodge.

18

A

Dispensations
Having iss~ed a dispensation for the forming and opening of a new
·L odge at Garberville under the name of Redwood Empire Lodge U. D., I
attended and conducted the opening ceremony on the evening of April 15,
1940. The granting of this Dispensation was recommended by the Inspector of District No. 3, and after a personal investigation it seemed to me
that the recommendation was well made. While for some years this Lodge
will continue small in numbers it will apparently not lack in Masonic spirit.
The ritualistic work of the officers was of a high order and the executive
ability of the present officers as demonstrated in the meeting I attended,
would be a credit to any Lodge.
Garberville is located approximately equidistant from Eureka on the
north and Willits on the south, a distance of sixty-five miles over mountain
roads. Fortuna is eighteen miles nearer than Eureka or Willits but the
difference in mileage between Fortuna and Willits is offset by adverse road
conditions, especially in the winter months. I felt the brethren, numbering
about twenty-five were entitled to a Lodge under the circumstances, especially as the expense of maintenance was I)ominal and would be covered by
the income from dues, and accordingly I granted the Dispensation.
In a small community such a Lodge can and should be the center of
social and civic activity, and can and should be of inestimable value to the
community and to Masonry. The application of Redwood Empire Lodge
U. · D. for a charter will be before the Charters Committee, who will later
report thereon.
Late in the year application was made by the legal number of brethren
for a Dispensation to open and form a Lodge of Masons under the name of
Trona Lodge, U. D. at Trona, in San Bernardino county. Having carefully
investigated the situation and having the recommendation of two of our
Inspectors and of the nearest Lodge, I granted the application and caused
the Dispensation to issue, and on September 16, 1940, I conducted the ceremony of opening the new Lodge.

19

Interjurisdictional Visits
Believing that much good can be accomplished by interjurisdictional
visits, it was my pleasure to attend the annual communication of the Grand
Lodge of Arizona in April, and of Nevada in June. Because of a conflict in
the date of the Grand Lodge of Nevada and Oregon, I requested the
R:. W:. Deputy Grand Master to attend the Grand Lodge of Oregon, and
carry with him our greetings and good wishes, which he did, I am sure,
in his customarily gracious manner.
At the annual communication of the Grand Lodge of Arizona, a tablet
was placed upon the building wherein the first Masonic meeting was
convened in the Territory of Arizona seventy-five years ago. It was in
Prescott and was the residence and office of the first Governor of the Territory, and the Lodge then formed was chartered by the Grand Lodge of
California. Hence, I felt that the Grand Lodge of California should be
represented at its unveiling.
Similarly at the communication of the Grand Lodge of Nevada a tablet
.was placed upon the Masonic Temple in Virginia City, Nevada, commemorating the facf that there, seventy-five years ago, was organized, by eleven
Lodges under the jurisdiction of California, the Grand Lodge of Nevada. I
was asked to deliver the address at the unveiling of the tablet and I felt
greatly honored in the asking and took much pleasure in doing so.
I was accompanied on each of these visits by a number of the appointed officers of Grand Lodge who were cordially received and welcomed
by our sister Grand Lodges, and their presence added much to the pleasure
of your Grand Master.
·
I should not close this portion of my message without mention of
another interjurisdictional. visit. I was invited by M.". w:. Brother C. A.
Carlson, Jr., then Grand Master of Masons in Nevada, to participate in the
ceremony of dedicating the new Masonic Temple at Las Vegas, Nevada.
Accordingly I did so, accompanied by M:. W:. Brother John Stewart
Ross, P. G. M., W:. Brother John A. Klarquist, Grand Pursuivant, and
W. ·. Brother Roy C. Bryan, Inspector of the 77th District. I was received with the honors due the office and we participated in a very pleasant
affair. The Temple at Las Vegas is constructed in such manner, that
although all on the first floor, the Lodge room is susceptible of being perfectly tiled. It was the model from which several California Masonic buildings have recently been constructed. As we departed from Las Vegas,
M:. W:. Brother Carlson joined our party and we proceeded to Needles, California, where I was received by the Lodges of District 104-A, and I, in turn,
received the Grand Master of Nevada with the honors due him. From
Needles, we proceeded to Prescott, Arizona, in. time for the opening of the
Grand Lodge of Arizona. Thus another page of memories was added to
the Book of Life, and old acquaintances renewed and new ones made.
Grand Masters' Conference
I am happy to say that I attended the Conference of Grand Masters
which convened in the City of Washington on February 22, 1940, and continued through until the 24th. Our jurisdiction was recognized by asking'

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

me to read a paper on· the subject of what should be Masonry's attitude
toward those engaged in the manufacture, sale and dispensing of alcoholic
beverages, which I did. I was also appointed chairman of a committee
whose duty it was to deposit a wreath at the last resting place of our departed and esteemed Brother George Washington, and there,· on February
22, 1940, in the presence of a large number of Grand Masters, and many
interested spectators, I deliver~d the eulogy.
I consider this conference a most worthwhile undertaking. The papers
read, and the discussions which followed, covered a wide range of subjects,
each of which was in itself of intense interest. Attendance also was of value
in the opportunity to meet and fraternize with the Masonic leaders of
America. There were present forty-five Grand M·a sters from the United
States and two from Canada, besides many Past Grand Maste·r s and Grand
Secretaries.
It is regrettable that . many of us were there for the first time and consequently ·not forewarned and prepared to reap the full benefit of attendance. Many from nearby jurisdictions were not thus hampered, and, I am
s ure, would gain much more benefit by repeated attendances, than we who
came from long distances and for the first and only time.
A Militant Masonry
My intercourse with the brethren teaches me that there is an undercur,rent of feeling among the Craft that Masonry as an organization should
be more militant. We find this feeling exists more largely among the less
informed members. Among those who have delved into the history of the
Order, its historical approach to the problems of mankind, and can vision
the effect upon our beloved institution which might follow if such a program
were adopted, there is a hesitancy to depart .from our present method of
approach to world problems.
A Brother wrote me, asking a permit to appear before Lodges to show
a film and deliver an address upon the Townsend Plan. I replied as follows :
"Dear Brother :
" I thoroughly appreciate your honest desire to better the condition of the unfortunates of our country. But for hundreds of years
it has been the unbroken policy never to let any· controversial matter enter our Lodge rooms. I fear I would be sincerely and sharply
criticised were I to permit a discussion of the Townsend Plan to
be presented. Were I merely a member on the side lines, but with
my present knowledge of Masonic law and custom, I would most
certainly object. These are matters to which the individual Mason
should devote himself, just as you are doing, and you are to be
commended for taking the interest you do, in the movement. That
is precisely the way that Masonry accomplishes its purpose of
bettering the condition of mankind. Masonry teaches the fundamentals in the Lodge rooms. Masons practice that teaching in the
high-ways and by-ways, in the churches, the chambers of commerce, in the legislatures and the halls of Congress, the Boy Scouts
and in the service clubs. I am sorry that I cannot accede to your
request for the privilege of lecturing in the Lodge rooms, because
I know you are sincere and want to be helpful in the cause you have
espoused. But such is not the way in Masonry."
It must be remembered that we have within our memQership, men of
every race, sect and opinion, and nothing should be said or done in a
Masonic meeting that would be found offensive or emb'l.rrassing to the
least among us.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

Lodge of Research
In. accordance with the approved recommendation of our M.'. W .'.
Brother Leon O. Whitsell, P. G. M., at our last annual communication I
appoint~d a special committee to consider and report upon the wisdom of
providing..the necessary legislation for the issuance of charters to Lodges
of research. The committee, composed of M.'. W .'. Wm. Rhodes Hervey,
P. G. M., Chairman, M.'. W.'. Leon 0. Whitsell, P. G. M., and W.'.
G. Ellsworth Meyer, will report later in the session.
Inspectors
Having so lately left the ranks of the Inspectors, I feel somewhat
reluctant to extend to them the praise to· which they are justly .entitled.
Among this corps of officers will be found. ~~me of the fi~est men and
Masons in the jurisdiction. Grand Masters have always relied, and must
always rely upon them for much of the fetching and carrying of Grand
Lodge.
· Owing to deaths and resignations, I have had .occasion to make more
than a few appointments. Some of these newly appointed officers have
undertaken to perform the duties of the office set forth in Section 53 of the
Constitution and Ordinances with more completeness than their predecessors. One met with some difficulty. In his report he states:
" It is interesting to note that within the experience of the Secretaries,
no Inspector has looked over their books or accounts. I met with reluctance
on the part of some secretaries to volunteer information and in one instance
the authority· of the Inspector to look over the books and records was
questioned.". ·'-'·
·
When the fact is noted that at least one of these secretaries to whom
the Inspector refers had held office for more than twenty years his statement
becomes the more startling.
In my opinion an Inspector should inspect the books and records of
each of his Lodges at least once a year and report thereon to the Grand
Master at the time provided in Section 53. This report should reflect the
financial condition of t):i.e Lodges in a general way; its growth or lack of
growth; if recent changes have occurred,. the apparent reason therefor ;
attendance and harmony or lack of same; and finally what the Inspector has
done to correct any undesirable condition. The report to the Grand Lecturer provided for in the same section should cover the ritualistic wo:k. of
the Lodges, the proficiency of the officers, and those matters appertammg
thereto.
Masonic History
This committee continues its work of gathering together, compiling
and relegating to a place of safety many items, records and articles o~ h~s­
toric value to the fraternity. This jurisdiction is favored above most Jurtsclictions in having a committee composed of men who are not only zealots,
but skilled in this particular. work, and to whom it is a pleasure, rather than
a task to serve in this capacity.
Masonic Education
Many jurisdictions have ceased to use the term "education" in this connection and now have committees of Masonic "advancement." I like the
term better. The term "education" implies a state of ignora?ce on the part
of the subject, and Masons I believe resent the imputation. The te:m
"advancement" carries with it no such imputation. No matter how well mformed he may be, a Mason may yet be capable, and desirous, of advancement.

23

PROtEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our committee hai prepared a manual containing the fundamentals of
Masonic traditions, history and teachings and many interesting and valuable
facts relative to the organization and -operation of Grand Lo.d ge and its
constituent Lodges in this jurisdiction, which, under the system proposed
by the committee would . be imparted to the candidates in every Lodge
through the means of spoken lectures. Wherever the proposed system has
been followed, will be found greatly increased interest not only on the part
of the candidates but also the older members of the Lodges who may have
participated. Some errors crept into the first edition which will be corrected
in a future edition.

gestion would be that without in anywise lessening our interest in this so
essential element of public service, without in anywise lessening our praise
where commendation is due, without in anywise lessening our interest in
the personnel of school boards and trustees and taxation and bond issues,
that we devote largely of our effort to a thorough knowledge and understanding of what is taught and by whom. After all this is the most vital
part, the part that most definitely touches upon the character of the future
citizenry of America.

22

Endowment Fund
This fund will show a steady and substantial growth. In my opinion it
should represent free will offerings, hence, I requested that no drive for
funds should be indulged in. Many of the brethren are in no position to
permit of contributions, and such should not be embarrassed by demands
they are unable to comply with. Nothing will tend more quickly to discou.r age Lodge attendance than constant calls for money from the members and this applies alike to the distress of Masonic Temple Associations,
and social benefits such as dances and card parties, and other activities
which may interest the few and annoy the many.
Masonic Homes
These Homes have been under practically one management for many
years, an able, efficient and wise management, and a credit to the Craft.
The report of the Trustees should be read by every member of Grand
Lodge.
Special Taxation Committee
Early in July this committee reported progress in their work to the
Grand Master and made certain recommendations as to action to be taken
by the constituent Lodges pending the making by Grand Lodge of a
blanket application for exemption for itself and the several Lodges of the
jurisdiction. The report was mailed to the Lodges and the blanket application for exemption has now been made. The committee will make a complete report during the session.
Public Schools Week
Under the able leadership of M.". W.". Brother Charles Albert Adams,
P. G. M., the Masons of California have annually sponsored a "Public
Schools Week." Its aim and purpose was and is to acquaint Masons, and
the public generally, with the work and accomplishments of our schools.
This year as in years past, the programs sponsored by Lodges and groups
of Lodges have been well received and largely attended.
If I have any criticism or recommendation to offer it would be with
reference to the nature of the .work done by Masonry in California in connection with these observances. There has been a sufficiency of praise
and laudation of our public school system with too little, or none, of constructive criticism.
In the almost quarter century since this movement was initiated in this
jurisdiction many world changes have taken place, many ideologies antagonistic to the teachings of Masonry have appeared among mankind, many
isms dangerous to our form of government have secured a foothold in
America.
We would do' well not to overlook the fact that vigilance is still the
price of liberty, and, that as the twig is bent the tree will grow. My sug-

Club Houses
A wider dissemination of information should be given concerning our
club houses at Berkeley and Los Angeles. These club houses are for the
use of all Masonic affiliated students attending either branch of the University of California. The greater the use made of them the more nearly
our purpose will be accomplished. It would be well if some literature could
be put out for the benefit of those of our membership who are pla~ing
students at either institutiori. ,I am quite sure there are many q~ahfied
students who arrive at either campus, there to learn for the first time of
the facilities available to them. A letter addressed to the Lodges by the
Trustees at an appropriate time of the year and read in Lodge might be the
means of helping some young man or woman to solve his or her problem.
Patriotic Programs
In accordance with the standing resolution of Grand Lodge, Constitution Day in September, was observed throughout the jurisdiction with
patriotic ~rograms particularly stressing the value of American Citizenship.
Wherever possible these were held as District meetings and open to
Masons, their families and friends.
I appointed a special committee, the Constitution Day Progra~ committee, composed of M."."W.". Robert B. Gaylord, P. G. M., Chairman;
M.".
Randolph V. Whiting, P. G. M., and M.". W.". Charles M. Wollenberg, P. G. M., to assist Lodges and Districts in preparation of worthwhile programs. A panel of well known speaker~ was arranged and many
notable meetings were held throughout the jurisdiction.
It seemed to me that Masonry could do no more worthwhile work
than to aid and assist those who are striving to arouse in the American
people a proper sense of the value of the right of citizenship as we know
and have it here in America. Because it came down to us from our fathers
with its freedom of speech and press, freedom of conscience, freedom of
assembly, and all those rights which may be grouped under the head of the
Rights of the Individual, and because we are far removed from those days
when they suffered, bled and sacrificed that we mis:ht .have them, we are
prone to think of them as irrevocable. For the thmkmg man, however,
current history teaches that in many nations, rights that they thought and
hoped might be irrevocable, were nevertheless, transitory.
The lapse of time, the ruthless hand of ignorance and the devastations
of war have, indeed, laid wastie and destroyed many valuable monuments
of antiquity on which the utmost ~xertions of human genius were employed not the least of which are the rights of the individual. That ignorance a~d war may not be the means of destroying our hardly gained civil
rights requires the utmost exertions and sacrifice on the part of this generation; a patriotism, in its truest sense, on the part of each of us.
The fraternity owes a deep sense of gratitude to this committee for
their admirable handling of the program and speakers bureau. We are
also indebted to W.". Brother Lee T. Mullen, P. M., who, as an added

w:.

24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDIKGS OF THE

member of the committee, assisted in the handling of programs south of
the Tehachapi.
Relief
Upon the urgent appeal of Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina, I directed the
Grand Treasurer to transmit to their New York bankers the sum of $2000.
The distress of thousands of our European brethren is dire and their need
urgent. Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina is the only grand body on the continent
that is freely functioning at this time, and Switzerland, itself, is the only
haven of countless refugees, among whom are thousands of our brethren.
The resources of the Swiss people are stretched to the utmost, and of the
Grand Lodge completely exhausted. All able bodied Swiss of the ages
of 20 to 60 are mobilized. The people are unable to give more.
I therefore deemed, that although the assembling of Grand Lodge was
little more than a month away, that the needs of our brethren were so great
and so urgent, that we ought not await the annual communication, and
caused the above mentioned amount to be transmitted as an earnest of our
go.ad. faith and fraternal regard, and I recommend that such further appropriation be made as may be consistent with the state of our finances, and
other calls thereon, present and prospective.
I tendered our assistance to our brethren of Louisiana at the time of
the recent floods in that state but was informed that no assistance was
needed and our offer was declined and their thanks expressed.
Recommendations

I.
In my travels throughout the jurisdiction I have found that in a num. ber of the Lodges, the work and harmony in the Lodge is seriously affected
by the fact that junior officers, such as Wardens or Senior Deacons occupy an office 'in some other order, society or club which takes so much
time that the work of the Lodge is severely hamper~d. The honor and distinction flowing from the fact of holding office in a Masonic Lodge should
be sufficient to enti.tle the Lodge to the undivided effort and attention of
the holder. If it is not, and in some cases such s.eems to be the case I
would recommend that an Inspector be authorized to withhold the · Certlficate of Qualification wh_en, in his judgment, the holding of such outside
office may seem to be in conflict with the duties of the office in the Lodge.

II.
Life Membership Funds seem to be a source of difficulty for many
small Lodges, and for some large ones too. The restrictions attached by
Grand Lodge to the investment of such funds are wise and prudent and
should not be removed, but, _in many cases, the amount of money in the fund
permits of no diversification in its investment even though the Lodge has
among its members those possessing the necessary investment education
and experience, which it usually does not have. This leaves available only
the usual savings bank account returning a maximum of 2% per annum
Which is a totally inadequate return for the purposes of the Lodge.
th~refore recommend that some committee of Grand Lodge, or a committee to be established by proper legislation, be entrusted with the duty
of investing all Life Membership Funds that may be entrusted to Grand
Lo~ge by the c?nstituent Lodges. That the constituent Lodges, at their
?pbon, be perm1.tted to transmit to the Grand Treasurer cash representmg such f,l.lnd~, m any amounts, all of said funds to be placed in a common pool or fund. to be invested from time to time. and as speedily as

i

25

possible, by the aforesaid committee, and the income therefrom apportioned annually or oftener, if it seems advisable, among the Lodges contributing thereto in proportion to the. amounts contributed and the time
of receipt by the Grand Treasurer. Such funds might be made subject to
withdrawal upon six months' notice by the contributing Lodges or any of
them. By such legislation the Lodges, especially the smaller Lodges, would
gain expert and efficient handling of the funds and also a diversification in
the investment so essential to safety. It is possible that a safe alternative
for this plan might be found in the lifting of the ban against Federally Insured Building and Loan Associations some of which pay as much as 4%.

III.
I have found it necessary on several occasions, following the ruling of
Grand Lodge, to deny to officers of other organizations whose membership
is composed of Masons, or in part composed. of Masons, information concerning the present Masonic standing of certain Ma!ions, members of such
other organizations. Inasmuch as continuance of membership in those other
organizations is based upon continuance of good standing in the Masonic
Lodge it would seem that it is to the interest of the Lodge to advise such
other organizations of the failure of a Mason to maintain his good standing in the Lodge. I am credibly informed that there are cases where a
Mason has been suspended in his Lodge yet continues to pay dues and
maintain his standing in such other organizations. If the fact of his suspension could be divulged to the proper officers of such other organization,
I am convinced that it would result in many who stand ·suspended seeking
restoration, with a consequent enrichment of the Lodge treasury. A case
was reported where a Brother quite active in a so-called "higher" body was
surprised to learn that it was necessary to maintain his membership in the
Masonic Lodge, and having accepted office in that body was forced to .pay
several years' back dues to restore himself to good standing. We have
always leaned over backward to protect the privacy of the individual, but
if a Mason is in good standing he should take pride in the fact, and a certificate to that effect issued with or without his knowledge, could do him no
harm, and in fact would reflect honor upon hifll; if he is not in good standing it would seem that the Lodge owes him no duty to withhold that information. I therefore recommend that appropriate legislation be adopted by
this Grand Lodge, authorizing Secretaries of Lodges to issue certificates
stating that a named person i,s or is not a member of such Lodge, and that
for the purpose of said certificate only, that a suspended member be treated
as no longer a member of the Lodge.
IV.
During election years in the past we have found the so-called "Masonic"
magazines and periodicals flooded with articles, cards and pictures of candidates for office. On the front cover of one periodical during a recent campaign year appeared the portrait of one, not a Mason, with none too good a
personal and political record with beneath it the words "Elect So and So to
the office of Such and Such." From all appearances, the non-Mason had
every right to assume from this that M'asonry as an organization was supporting the named candidate. We are again in an election year and we may
expect a repetition of such infractions of our well-known and historical
policy. I recommend that no paper: periodical, magazine or publication
using the words "Masonic," "Freemasonry," "Hiram" or any word implying a connection with Freemasons or Freemasonry, be permitted to publish
the portrait, card, or statement of any candidate for political office, whether
partisan or non-partisan, or of any political party, without printing im-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mediately above or below the same, in a type not smaller than the smallest
type used therein, the words "Paid Political Advertisement. Not intended
as an expression of opinion of this Magazine or of Freemasonry."

Master as the place of trial has filed charges upon specifications to conform
to the offense for which the accused was convicted; the Master of the
designated Lodge should preside at the trial.
In filing the charges the Juriior Warden was merely performing a duty
fixed upon him, and upon no other officer by the provisions of Section 192-a,
and the mere fact that he, the Junior \Varden, mistakenly refers to the
Master in the charges as having ~·requested" the filing, should not alter the
situation.

26

v.
The usual flood of criticism of the so-called "Masonic" magazines and
periodicals has come to the Grand Master during the past year. A new
object of attack by the critics has arisen by reason of a radio program sponsored by one of these magazines. This magazine is one that now, and in
the past, has been among the least offensive of these publications, and
speaking from personal knowledge, its management has at all times expressed a desire to meet the wishes of Grand Lodge as to form, contents
and management. I see no more reason for suppressing a radio program
·sponsored by a "Masonic" magazine than for suppressing the magazine
itself, nor can I conceive that. the form which the advertising matter takes
whether in type or air can alter the rules of ethics applying to the subject.
Each must be kept within proper bounds to be entitled to the patronage of
Masons and Masonic Lodges.
Many of the criticisms directed against these publications were amply
justified by the facts. Other Grand Masters have indicated by their remarks
that they have had similar experiences. It is my opinion that the time has
come when action must be taken by Grand Lodge to remedy an evil that
has long existed in this jurisdiction, and which has long been a discredit
to the Craft. I recommend that legislation be adopted to the end that
whenever facts presented to the Grand Master prove to his satisfaction
that any such paper, periodical, magazine or publication of any kind, or its
editors, managers, agents or employees, have engaged in any unethical,
fraudulent. misleading, or questionable acts or practices, that the Grand
Master be authorized to place an interdiction upori such publication, and
immediately notify all Lodges and Masons in this jurisdii:tion by a communication to be read at the next Stated Meeting in each Lodge, to cease
and desist from giving any aid or support of any kind to such offender.
I further recommend that the foregoing recommendation be considered
by Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication in the year 1941, and that
the incoming Grand Master be requested to appoint a committee of three
whose duty it shall be to consider said recommendation, and kindred and
associated matters in the broadest sense relating to the subject of "Masonic"
publications, and that said . committee be ordered to report their findings
thereon to the Grand Master not later than ·August 1, 1941, and .that the
Grand Master be requested to include said report in the advance information to be furnished the Lodges of this jurisdiction.
As the executive head of the Fraternity, it is the duty of Grand Master to interpret Masonic law and enforce its provisions in the jurisdiction
in the interval between communications of Grand Lodge. In performance of
that duty I have made certain decisions and orders which are herewith
submitted for approval by Grand Lodge. I have omitted such decisions
as were clearly within the purview of previous rulings of Grand Lodge.
Decisions

I.
I ruled that where pursuant to Section 333 of our Ordinances, the
Grand Secretary has procured the record; the accused has been notified;
he has demanded a Masonic trial; the Grand Master has designated the
place of trial; the Junior Warden of the Lodge designated by the Grand

27

II.
Two towns, Whitetown and Blacktown, are situated less than ten miles
apart. . Whitetown has one Masonic Lodge and charges $30.00 for the three
degrees; Blacktown has two lodges and each charges $50.00 for the degrees. The normal jurisdiction of each Lodge is within the enlarged jurisdiction of the others under Section 218. Naturally, the first mentioned
Lodge having the lower fees, all other things being equal, will receive a
majority of the petitions from both ·towns. Whitetown had been requesting
waivers but claimed a right to receive the petitions without such waivers
being granted.
I was asked if Whitetown Lodge could be compelled to raise its fees,
or if not, was it required to secure a waiver from one of the Lodges in
Blacktown before receiving a petition from a candidate residing within the
normal jurisdiction of Blacktown Lodges, but within the enlarged jurisdiction of Whitetown Lodge. I decided as follows:
Section 218 after making provision for concurrent jurisdiction of
Lodges within a ten-mile radius of the Lodge room further provides: "then
the procedure to be followed in acting upon that petition shall be that
prescribed in cases of concurrent jurisdiction." The provisions relating to
concurrent jurisdiction are found in Section 82.
Section 214 among other things, provides: "If two or more Lodges are
located within the corporate limits of any city, town, or place, they shall
have concurrent jurisdiction therein, and none of them shall confer the
degrees for a smaller sum than fifty dollars without the consent of all."
It is my opinion that in enlarging the normal jurisdiction of the Lodge
under Section 218, it was not the intention of Grand Lodge to permit a
Lodge located as is Whitetown Lodge to invade the normal jurisdiction of
the Blacktown· Lodges, without also complying· with Section 82 relative to
minimum fees, and it is therefore my decision that before Whitetown Lodge
can take advantage of the enlarged jurisdiction so as to invade the normal
jurisdiction of Blacktown Lodges it must establish a minimum fee of $50
for the degrees, and until it shall do so, it must continue to apply for and
obtain, in every case, a waiver from one of the Blacktown Lodges, when
the petitioner resides within the normal jurisdiction of the l.atter.
(Note: Whitetown and Blacktown are substituted names).

III.
I was asked: 1. Can a Junior Warden, who, by direction of the Master,
or as a part of his official duties as Junior Warden, has preferred charges
of un-Masonic conduct, act as stenographic reporter at the trial of such
charges? I ruled he could not. While there is nothing apparently in the
law of this jurisdiction covering such a situation, yet there might be some
question raised as to the fairness of the trial under such conditions, a situation that we ought to avoid in every case.
In connection with the same matter, I was asked if a non-Mason might

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

act as such stenographic reporter, to which I also answered "No." Under
no circumstances can a non-Mason act as the reporter or be present as a
spectator.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

29

year 1941." Written notice should be given to each member immediately
after its proposal setting forth the terms of the resolution and stating that
it would be acted upon at the next Stated Meeting.

IV.

VI.

I was presented the following question: The members of a Lodge
maintain a charity box which is placed on a pedestal in the Lodge room
during recess. The members put voluntary contr!but.ions in the box. Th.e
purpose of the box is to create a Charity Fund whtch 1s not to be used until
a specified time, after which the interest only will be used for Lodge
charity. Money received in the Charity Box is kept separate from Lodge
funds. Transaction of business as to investments, etc., is carried on during
recess with the Master presiding and no record is made in the minutes of
the Lodge. In response to questions they stated the purpose in as~ing
whether Grand Lodge had jurisdiction of the fund was to have determined
if the investment of the fund is restricted the same as Lodge funds, and
also in event the Lodge should be "dissolved" what would be the disposition
of this special fund.
I replied: It seems to me that we cannot divorce any of the monies
raised from our members from their character of Masonic funds. They
may be impressed with a trust for certain purposes, and I therefore hold
that the raising of such funds in the manner described in your letter of
inquiry is a legitimate endeavor on the part of the Lodge and monies so
raised could not be diverted to any other purpose, nor could any part of
the principal sum be used for any purpose, the income only, after a specified time, being available for the sok purpose of Lodge charities.
I am reluctant to place any additional restrictions on Lodge activities
or increase the burden of Grand Lodge in supervising or controlling the
affairs of a Lodge, nevertheless, I am constrained to hold that such funds
solicited from members for a Maso,nic purpose such as you propose would
be subject to the provisions of Section 152 of the . Constitution and Ordinances of Grand Lodge (Ed. 1940) and in the event of the dissolution of
the Lodge such funds, impressed with the trust, would pass to Grand Lodge
under Section 160.

A Brother was raised April 28, 1888. He dimitted January 13, 1897 and
was not restored until September, 1901. I was asked when the Brother
would be entitled to rec.e ive a SO-year button. To which I replied: the resolutions providing for the SO-year button require no more than that he shall
have been a Master Mason in good standing for a period of fifty years, and
a member of a recognized Lodge of Masons. While he was dimitted he was
not a member of a Lodge in good standing. As he was dimitted for a
period of four years and eight months, this length of time would have to be
added to time within which he would normally have been eligible for the
button, which would make the date of eligibility, December 28, 1942.

v.
I ,w as 'a sked to approve an amendment to .~he, ,.By-laws <;>f a Lodge readiqg as follows:
.
. ._. :
"Provided, however, that a Lodge miJ.Y. by a standing resolution adopted after notice in writing to every member of the Lodge,
approved by the Grand Master and effective six months subsequent
to such approval, provide that the annual election may be held at
the Stated Meeting in November each year."
To which I replied: The amendment to your By-laws is ineffective
for the purpose desired. In the first place, it says nothing at all, it merely
reiterates the words of the Constitution and does not by its wording constitute any action on the part of the Lodge, and secondly, the authority
under that provision is not invoked by an amendment to the By-laws, but
by the adoption of a standing resolution. In addition to the foregoing your
certificate does not show that notice of the proposed action was given in
writing to every member of the Lodge.
Your action shculd have been the adoption of a resolution in substance
as follows : " Resolved that, anything in the By-laws of this Lodge to the
contrary notwithstanding, the annual election of officers of this Lodge shall
be had at the Stated Meeting in November of each year commencing in the

VII.
The following situation arose in one of our Lodges: On the second
ballot upon an application, the Junior Warden declared the ballot "fair,"
the Senior Warden "dark" and when it was brought to the east it was
declared "black." There was one cube. The application was declared rejected. As the Senior Deacon was about to place the ballot box on the
Senior Warden's pedestal he accidentally hit it with i:onsiderable force and
several brethren thought the cube might accidentally have been bounced
into the voting compartment. The Master did not hear the Junior Warden' s declaration of "fair," and being informed took a third ballot which
came to the east "bright." No one had entered or retired from the Lodge
room, there had been no intermission, and all members voted each time.
The situation was presented with the question as to whether the application had been accepted or rejected. I held, that the application having been
declared rejected it must stand but under the circumstances I would consider
favorably an application for a dispensation to receive and act on the petition
of this rejected candidate within twelve months.

VIII.
A Brother joined .the Lodge before a Home fee was charged and later
was suspended for non-payment of dues. He now applies for restoration.
Will he have to pay the Home feet before he can be restored? I held, the
Brother should not be required fo pay the Home fee. He has never ceased
to be a member of the Lodge, having never taken a <limit or been expelled.
He merely stands suspended which implies the continuation of his membership and therefore upon lifting the suspension his membership to all
intents would be continuous from its inception.

IX.
A Lodge elected an applicant to take the degrees of Masonry who had
suffered the loss of a leg at the thigh, and thereafter conferred upon him
the three degrees of Masonry. The Inspector was informd of the facts
after he had been passed and before being raised. He advised the Master
concerning the law. Nevertheless, the Master conferred the Third Degree
and · the Inspector attended the meeting of the Lodge and witnessed the
ceremony.
Much as I disliked to do so, I felt constrained to punish all concerned
for a breach of our Masonic law in a particular so well known as is our law
relating to the physical qualifications of an applicant for the degrees.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I asked for and received the resignation of the Inspector; I reprimanded
the Lodge; and I suspended the Master from the exercise of the powers
and duties of his office.

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

30 .

Grand Secretary and Officers
To our Grand Secretary whose long years of experience and wisdom
ripened by age, makes his advice in moments of perplexity of incalculable
value, I extend my thanks for his ever ready rendition of service when
sought. The appointive officers of Grand Lodge have added much to the
pleasure and satisfaction of the year by their presence on numerous
occasions. The ready acquiescence and cooperation of the Masters and
Wardens in all matters and on every occasion was very gratifying.
And I am sincerely grateful to the Craft throughout the jurisdiction for
the kindness and friendliness everywhere displayed, grateful for the harmony and peace and brotherly love that have prevailed throughout the year,
grateful for the honor conferred upon me, grateful for the opportunity to
have served Masonry during a year of pleasant associations and interesting
activities.
May I close with an ancient Masonic benediction:
"!vfay no· strife disturb thy days, nor sorrow disturb thy nights, and
the pillow of peace kiss thy cheek, and the pleasures of imagination attend
thy dreams; and when length of years hath made thee tired of earthly joys,
and the curtains of death gently close around the scene of thy existence,
may the angels of God attend thy bed and take care that the expiring lamp
of life shall not receive one rude blast to hasten its extinction; and finally
may the blessing of God wash thee free from all impurities and prepare thee
to enter into the land of everlasting felicity."
WM.

B. OGDEN, Grand Maste,-.

Referred to the following committee:
Lawrence C. Kelley, Charles Reeves and Alfred E. Breslauer.

31

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
I present herewith my thirty-third annual report:
Death of Frank G. Hobbs
On the morning of the 14th of June, 1940, this office particularly and
the fraternity generally suffered a severe shock in the sudden and unexpected death of Worshipful Brother Frank G. Hobbs, Assistant Grand
Secretary. He died as any of us would wish, at his desk and at his usual
labors, without previous warning.
Brother Hobbs was appointed Assistant Grand Secretary after the
death of Harry S. Johnson in 1922, and for nearly eighteen years served in
that capacity loyally, faithfully, industriously and always with a fine courtesy alike to rich and poor, high and low, with whom he came in contact.
He was born in San Francisco, April I, 1877, and received his schooling
in his native city. For many years he was engaged in the lumber business
in northern California and in merchandising in Nevada. He married Miss
Helen Williams at Sisson on June 25, 1903, who with a son; Frank Wilson,
survives him.
His Masonic record begins with his degrees in Montezuma Lodge No.
31, at Goldfield, Nevada, in 1906, from which he withdrew at the formation of Alexandria Lodge No. 531 of San Francisco, of which Lodge he was
the first Master. His Chapter degrees were conferred on him by Goldfield
Chapter No. 10, Nevada, subsequently affiliating with San Francisco Chapter No. 1 His Scottish Rite degrees were received in Reno Consistory
No. 1 at Goldfield, from which he withdrew to become a member and active
worker in San Francisco Consistory No. 1. His memberships also included
Islam Temple of the Mystic Shrine; and San Francisco Past Masters
Associatiqn.
The funeral of our brother was conducted under the auspices of Alexandria Lodge, Deputy Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson conducting the services
in the presence of a large gathering of brethren and friends.
The vacancy occasioned by the loss of Brother Hobbs was filled July
1st by the appointment of Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master of San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
Membership
1920

1930

1940

Number of Lodges formed ............................
20
Initiations reported .......................................... 10,547
Passings .............................................................. 9,903
Raisings ............................................................., 9,336
Affiliated .............................................................. 1,644
Gain by error ................................................... .
Reinstated .......................................................... 323
Withdrawn ........................................................ 1,378
Suspended non-payment dues ........................ 460
Expelled ..............................................................
19
Loss by error ................................................... .

2
6,650
6,275
6,215
1,571

3
3,143
3,063
2,995
1,057
21
456
1,128
1,804
17
29

279
1,220
1,734
34

32

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I920

1930

1940

Died .....................................................•................ 949
1,638
2,105
142,062
126, 185
Number members July 31 ·····················-·······~6,873
1,456
Dues remitted .................................................... 672
4,513
Loss in the year .............................................. (g.ain 8,983)
3,410
554
Net gain in twenty years ...............................- ....•........ ,..•.........,........49,312
New Lodges
Barstow, San Bernardino county: Dispensation issued October 1, 1939.
(List of members published in Proceedings 1939, page 386).
Redwood Empire, Garberville, Humboldt county : Dispensation issued
March 26, 1940. Master, Ray Ivan Giles; Senior Warden, Fred A. Vincent;
Junior Warden, John Wetherby McKenzie; and James R. Little, Frank R.
Dawley, Earl K. Allison, William Shreve Melville, Marion L. Mitchell, Chris
C. Mitchell, Arthur Dwight Lobingier, Arthur Lee Medcalf, Rae Frederick
Helmke and Richard Lewis Owen.
Trona, San Bernardino county : Dispensation issued September 10,
1940. Master, Gayle Haughton, Jr.; Senior Warden, Ray Tazwell Saul;
Junior Warden, William Lemmon Denton; and Samuel B. Levin, John B.
Crossley, Cecil E. Jones, Ivey Bethel, R. C. Samuels, James F. Austin,
E . D. Sampson, Henry L. Joost, Gustaf A. Hendrickson, William A. Turnbull, Jr., Adam L. Habler, Wayne W. Williams, Fred W. Leete, Artemus
Foster, Charles O ' Neill and Homer R. Evans.
·
This Lodge was instituted by the Grand Master Monday, September
16, 1940, and inasmuch as the dispensation expired September 30, and therefore no work was possible, I recommend that Grand Lodge dues, ordinarily
payable, be remitted, and also that the incoming Grand Master be requested
to extend the dispensation for another year.
Consolidation of Lodges
Under date of February 16, 1940 the Grand Master approved the proceedings for the consolidation of Golden City Lodge No. 553 with Educator Lodge No. 554 with the name and number of Educator Lodge No. 554.
Representative Appointed
Under date of March 9, 1940, by order of the Grand Master, a commission was issued to M. W. Past Grand Master Max S. Von Son as Representative of the Grand Lodge of California near the York Grand Lodge
of Mexico.
Duplicate Charter Issued
In November, 1939, the roof of the hall in which Keystone Lodge No.
161 meets was destroyed by wind during a heavy rain§torm, the result
being that all furnishings, including the charter were soaked with water.
The officers of the Lodge endeavored to dry the charter with a flat-iron
with disastrous consequences-t·he charter being destroyed. By order of
the Grand Master a duplicate of the original charter was issued under date
of January 25, 1940, with the admonition to the Lodge to hereafter keep
its charter in a metal case
Permission to Remove Meeting Place
The hall of Colusa Lodge No. 240, having been destroyed by fire, the
Grand Master, under date of September 6, 1940, granted permission for the

33

1;-odge to meet in the hall of the Odd Fellows building at Colusa until such
time as the Lodge may provide a permanent meeting place. A duplicate
charter was issued.
The Ross Digest
. Pursuant to the order of Grand Lodge (Proc. 1939, p. 617) I had
prmted 1500 copies of the Constitution and Regulations as annotated and
compiled by Past Grand Master Ross, and they were placed on sale early
in May of this year. The book has proved to be a "long-felt want" and
another edition will soon be required.
Fifty Year Buttons
Following is a list of ' the veteran brethren who received fifty-year
buttons this fiscal year :
Name
Raised
Adolphson, Gustav Adolph ........March 8, 1890
Allenbaugh, William H ............;. ................
Armer, Benjamin ......................... June 19, 1890
Baker, Nathan Clinton ............... Aug. 21, 1890
Barker, Lewis Harmon....! ......... Dec. 20, 1888
Blue, Myron Hooker................... Oct. 22, 1889
Blunk, Arthur Scott .................... June 30, 1888
Bogart, Clayton Wm .................. Sept. 23, 1889
Boring, John Purcell ...................Nov. 26, 1889
Bragdon, "Asa Barnum ................ May,
1889
Brown, Clinton Edwin ............... Nov.
7, 1889
Butler, Rudolph Rey ................... Aug.
2, 1890
Butz, Adolph .................................June 21, 1890
Canniff, Byron Marcus ............... March,
1883
Cathcart, Benj. Franklin ............ March 12, 1890
Christie, John Alexander ........... Nov. 29, 1887
Clarke, Crawford Calvin ............ Dec.
7, 1889
Coope~, Johnston Hillard.......... Aug.
11, 1890
Cumming, Joseph Moore...........]une 10, 1890
Davis, Joseph Htirst.... - ..............J uly
1, 1890
DeWitt, Robert Hewitt..............July 14, 1890
Dodge, Edward Gardiner,..........April 14, 1886
Dudley, Christophei:;. ...................Oct.
5, 1889
Falconer, Henry V,.,.., ...... ~ .......... June 16, 1889
Farnsworth, Eldridge Calvin .... May
3, 1890
Goeffert, George Stapp ...............June 22, 1889
Green, Alfonso .....................~ .. ..... April 28, 1883
Guiberson, Joseph Warner........ Sept. 13, 1888
Guptil, William Hanson ............. Sept. 28, 1889
Hamlin, Edwin Clair.................. .June 20, 1890
Hansell, Harry Kingston Fox ... Nov.
2, 1889
Harran, Edward ] ....... ~......,, .......June 28, 1890
Hollingberry, Frank George ..... July 26, 1890
Hubbard, Robert Lincoln .......... Dec. 14, 1889
Hughes, John Calvin ................... May
4, 1890
Hurley, John .................................Dec. 26, 1889
Hurst, Ferdinand......................... Feb. 23, 1888
Hutchins, Hiram...... ,.................. June 16, 1890
Jacobovics, Philip ........................ March 27, 1890

Lodge
Crockett No. 139
Morning Star No. 68
Fidelity No. 120
Oxnard No. 341
Palo Alto No. 346
Tehama No. 3
Yount No. 12
Monrovia No. 308
Orange Grove No. 293
Mariposa No. 24
San Jose No. 10
Hanford No. 279
Santa Ana No. 241
Arlington No. 414
Fresno No. 247
Las Palmas No. 366
Silveyville No. 201
Solano No. 229
Golden Gate No. 30
Table Mountain No. 124
Howard No. 37
Santa Barbara No. 192
Confidence No. 203
Monrovia No. 308
Amador No. 65
Fresno No. 247
San Benito No. 211
Corcoran No. 490
Chula Vista No. 626 "
San Jose No. 10
Eel River No. 147
Santa Cruz No. 38
Pajaro No. 110
Golden State No. 358
San Francisco No. 360
Washington No. 20
Reading No. 254
King Solomon's No. 260
Fidelity No. 120

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Raised
Lodge
Keyes, Chas. Edwin ......... - ......... Aug. 26, 1890 Oakland No. 188
King, Percival Simpson ............. June
5, 1890 Yount No. 12
Kirkes, Levidas Cice;:o ............... Sept.
9, 1889 Laguna Beach No. 672
Lackmann, John C. D ................ ,Nov. 18, 1889 Occidental No. 22
6, 1885 San Benito No. 211
Lauritzen, Christian Otto .......... June
Lehner, George............................ Nov. 23, 1889 Consuelo No. 325
Leibold, Jacob George ................ Aug. 27, 1890 Fidelity No. 120
Lillie, Charles Andrew ........ ,.......April 10, 1889 Bear Mountain No. 76
Lindsay, Adam ... :......................... April 8, 1889 Kilauea No. 330
Little, GeorgeEdward ................ April 22, 1890 Golden Gate No. 30
Lynde, George Wm .................... April 17, 1890 Mc1rning Star No. 68
Madison, Fred H ......................... .Oct. 20, 1885 Argonaut No. 461
Mason, George Henry................ Aug. 26, 1890 Brooklyn No. 225
Matthews, Henry Thomas ........April 5, 1889 Santa Ana No. 241
McConnell, Willis TalbotL ...... Aug. 28, 1890 Craftsmen No. 559
McFaddin, Edwin ........................Feb. ll, 1890 Santa Ana No. 241
McGrath, Harry .HilL ............... July 26, 1890 Charter Rock No. 410
McLean, Colin A:.~ ..................... Nov. 28, 1889 Claremont No. 436
· Nathan, Henry Michael... .......... April 10, 1890 Washington No. 20
Norman Richard Augustus ...... Dec. 30, 1889 North Butte No. 230
Norton, Chas. Howard ............... Aug.
2, 1890 Henry Clay No. 95
Ogier, Walter Wm., Sr ............... March 18, 1890 Pasadena No. 272
9, 1887 Oakland No. 188
Olaine, Charles.......... -~ ...........;.... J uly
Pangborn, E. J. W ••,..~ · -•···..,.....~:June 10, 1890 Ashlar No. 306
Parker, Robert Bryant ............... Feb.
5, 1887 San Bernardino No. 178
Peel, Jonathan Morfrew........... June 24, 1890 Oriental No. 144 ·
Perkins Reuben Douglas ...........March 28, 1889 Riverside No. 635
.
Polson 'George Jonas .................
Marc h 8, 189 0 Willow Glen No. 676
Potter,' LeRoy W ........:................}q'ov. 27,_ 1889 Francis K. Shattuck No. 571
Ridenhour, Lewis Edward........ Sept. 13, 1889 Mt. Jackson No. 295
Riess, John Wm.......................... July 11, 1889 California No. 1
Root Leroy V .............................. May 19, 1890 Needles No. 326
Row;, Purcell... ............................ Sept.
l, 1887 Argonaut No. 461
Sanborn, Kingsbury .................... May
7, 1890 Evergreen No. 259
7, 1889 Occidental No. 22
Savage, Michael Joseph ............. Jan.
Schlageter, Frederick Wm........ May 31, 1890 Mariposa No. 24
Schorr, John ... :........................ ,.... Feb. 22, 1890 Humboldt No. 79
Santa Rosa No. 57
Shearer, William Piper .............. .ln 1887
Sinclair, Henry G........................ Ma:ir
3, 1890 Santa Rosa No. 57
Smith Elmer Ellsworth ............. March 19, 1890 John Marshall No. 636
Speye~, Walter M ........................ Nov. 15, 1886 Pacific No. 136 .
Stites William Henry ................ Dec. 28, 1889 Snow Mountain No: 271
Stratt'on, George W .................... Feb. 25, 1890 Nicolaus No. 129
. , Azusa No. 305
Streshly, William Orlando ........ In 1890
Strickland Francis Marion _______ August, 1888
Landmark No. 253 ·
Struthers Andrew J:ickson ....... April 23, 1890 Gardena No. 372
Taylor J~hn Wesley.................. .December, 1889 San Benito No. 211
Tread~ay, Clinton Wm ..............Dec. 13, 1889 East Gate No. 290
Twohy, Eustace J ........................ October, 1885 Phoenix No. 178
Valentine, Miles Ellsworth ....... April 1, 1890 Corinthian No. 9
Wade, Willard J ...........................March 31, 1890 Azusa No. 305
Warnock, Horace Hampton ..... July 23, 1890 Hanford No. 279
Watson, Joseph Edward ....... :....July 10, 1889 ;\lpha No. 431
Mission No. 169
Welton, John Wm...................... .In 1886

Name
Raised
White, Kelloy Albert... ............... Sept. 30, 1889
Wolters, Gustave He_rman ......... Feb. 12, 1890
Woodworth, John Joseph .......... June 23, 1890
Worley, William Henry............. Oct. 29, 1889

35

Lodge
San Joaquin No. 19
Sincerity No. 132
Pentalpha No. 202
Vesper No. 84

Life Memberships
The Grand Master has .approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:
Alamo Lodge No. 122, $250; Anaheim Lodge No. 207, $200; Liberty
Lodge No. 299, $200; Presidio Lodge No. 354, $250; Turlock Lodge No.
395, $300; Cahuenga Lodge No. 513, $200; George Washington Lodge No.
525, $300; Justice L.o dge No. 549, $250; Fairview Lodge No. 629, $150.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master approved the following requests for special dispensations for various purposes:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Howard Lodge No. 37; Forest Lodge No. 66; Summit Lodge No. 112;
Sincerity Lodge No. 132; Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235; Alta Lodge No.
333; Fullerton Lodge No. 339; Palo Alto Lodge No. 346; Riverdale Lodge
No. 496.
Amendments to By-Laws
Decreasing fees: Eden Lodge No. 113, to $50; Petaluma Lodge No. 180,
to $80; Buckeye Lodge No. 195, to $30; Oxnard Lodge No. 341, to $30;
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367, to $70; Unity Lodge No. 368, to $50; San
Dimas Lodge No. 428, to $35; Alta Vista Lodge No. 464, to $75; La Jolla
Lodge No. 518, to $85; Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535, to $50; All
States Lodge No. 593, to $50.
Increasing dues: Riverside Lodge No. 635, to $10.
Eliminating affiliation fees: Eden Lodge No. 113; Menlo Park Lodge
No. 651; Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
Excepting holidays as stated meeting dates: Covina Lodge No. 334; San
Fernando Lodge No. 343; Jewel Lodge No. 374; Henry S. Orme Lodge No.
458; Lankershim Lodge No. 542; Plymouth Lodge No. 560.
Changing time of stated meetings: Nevada City Lodge No. 13; Ione Lodge
No. 80; Eden Lodge No. 113; Evening Star Lodge No. 186; Santa Barbara
Lodge No. 192; Sunset Lodge No. 352; Waucoba Lodge No. 413; Sunrise
Lodge No. 522; Fairview Lodge No. 629.
Resofotions PrO'l!iding for change of meeting place: Colusa Lodge No.
240; Brawley Lodge No. 402; Paul Revere Lodge No. 462; Triangle Lodge
No. 548; Fairview Lodge No. 629.
Reducing affiliation fee:
Lodge No. 336, to $10.00.

Oakland Lodge No. 188, to $1.00; Fruitvale
Trial Records

No. 959-A member of Yount Lodge No. 12. Expelled October 3, 1939.
No. 960-A member of Acorn Lodge No. 494. Expelled August 3, 1939.
No. 961--A member of Jewel Lodge No. 374. Tried by Occidental
Lodge No. 22, and suspended November 6, 1939.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

37

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

36
N

962-A member of Bellflower Lodge No. 523. Tried by a Commis.
o. · t d by Grand Master and acquitted November 22, 1939. •
'
11 d
s10n appom e
No. 963-A member of Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571. Expe e
December 5, 1939.
11 d N
No. 964-A member of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481. Expe e
ovember 6, 1939.
S
b
No. 965-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Expelled eptem er
5, 1939.
II d D
b r
No. 966--A member of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Expe e
ecem e
2, 1939.
.
11 d J
5
No. 967-A member of Anaheim Lodge No. 207. Expe e
anuary •
1940.
.
No. 968-A member of Landmark Lodge No. 253. Expelled January
13, 1940.
.
· d M h 4
arc
•
No. 969-A member of Wilshire Lodge No. 445. Acqu1tte
1940.
. d b w·1
h" e
No. 970-A member of Bellflower Lodge No. 523. Trie
Y 1 s ir
Lodge No. 445, and acquitted April 1, 1940.
No. 971-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled March
4, 1940.
11 d M
h 7
No. 972-A member of Friendship Lodge No. 210. Expe e
arc
•
1940.
· No. 973-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled January
9, 1940.
I d T · d b
No 974-A member of Progress Lodge No. ·967, Scot an ·
ne
Y
Carqui~ez Lodge No. 337, and expelled May 1, 1940.
.
No. !175-A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612. Expelled Apnl 2,
1940.
.
No. 976--A member of Ocean Park .Lodge No. 369. Suspended June
4, 19:~. 977-A member of San Joaquin Lodge No. 19. Expelled July 1,
1940.
No. 978-A member of Las P.almas Lodge No. 366. Expelled July 18,
1940.
No. 979-A member of All States Lodge No. 593. Expelled June 3,
1940No. 980-A member of Multnoina? Lodge No. 1, Oregon. Tried by
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, acquitted February 6, 1940.
.
No. 981-A member of East Belt Lodge No. 391. Tried by Stanislaus
Lodge No. 206 and expelled August 1, 1940.
·
.
No 982-A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437, tned by Van Nuys
Lodge No. 450, and expelled September 3, 1940.
No. 983-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Expelled July 3, 1940.
No. 984-A member ~f Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Expelled September 3, 1940.
··
f
R
No. 6~3-A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Petition or estoration May 2, 1940.
·
No. 674-A member of Glemlale Lodge No. 544. Petition for Restoration March 28, 1940.

Unfinished Business
Past Grand Master Adams presented the following resolution on the
third day of the last Annual Communication (p. 602 of Proceedings) and
it was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and Committee on Policy
and General Purposes with instruction to report thereon at the next Annual
Communication:
Resolved, that unless otherwise ordered by unanimous consent,
every resolution proposing to amend the Constitution, Regulations,
or the Uniform Code of By-Laws, shall be presented in writing at a
regular annual communication and be immediately referred to the
appropriate committee, which shall report thereon in writing at the
next annual communication; and that the proposed resolution shall
appear in full in fhe printed Proceedings of the communication at
which it was presented.
JoHN WHTCHER, Grand Secretary.
Report of Auditors
To the Finance Committee, Grand Lodge:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Grand Lodge F. &
A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1940 and present herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's accounts, statement of cash receipts and
disbursements-general fund.for t_he fiscal year ended July 31, 1940.
Exhibit B-1: Statement of per capita dues collected during 1939-40 for
Grand Lodge from 1939 annual returns.
Exhibit B-2: Statement of per capita dues and Home tax collected during 1939-40 for Masonic Homes of California from 1939 annual returns and
$25.00 Home tax for three quarters of 1939-40.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's accounts,_ statement of cash receipts and
disbursements-fiscal year ended July 31, 1940.
Exhibit D: Statement of assets and capital account, as at July 31, 1940.
Comments-As shown at the bottom of our Exhibit D, the revenue from
per capita dues and other sources exceeded the total of expenses and appropriations by $12,864.63.
All dues payable during the current year, as reported on the 1939 annual
returns have been paid in full. Our Exhibit B-1 and B-2 shows proof of
revenue due from the Lodges in accordance with their 1939 annual returns
and the $25.00 Home tax reports for the first three quarters of the fiscal
year 1939-40. The total revenue due, as shown, agrees with the total cash
received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary. Cash receipts were accounted for and traced to the proper depositaries. Disbursements were
made by checks and supported by properly approved vouchers.
All bank balances were verified by correspondence. Certified lists of
stocks and bonds belonging to all funds were received from the Anglo
California National Bank which holds the securities in trust.
Loans made to the several Lodges and unpaid as at July 31, 1940, are
as follows:
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485............ _..............................$ 300.00
Drytown Lodge No. 174......................- .. ·~·········---·· 440.00
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59.......,............................... _. 400.00
Total...........- .................•,.......:..........................$1,140.-00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3B·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
Oceanside Lodge No. 381 ........~··'···················-·····-···'···-.,..····-···-$207.85

. we certify that: in our opinion, subject to the foreg9ing comments. the
attached statements set forth the financial condition of the ?rand L~dge
F. & A. M. of California, as at July 31, 1940, and the result of 1ts operations
for the fiscal year.
Respectfully submitted,
.RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
· Certified Public Accountants,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Exhibit A

STATEMENT OF cASH. RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEME NTS

1940

· General Fund

Cash bii.Iance, Augus.t 1, 1939.~.-~ ..:...............~ .•..........A·········-·•························$ 49,008.30
Cash Received by Grand Secretary

Dues from Lodges-1939 ........::.. ~ ...........•.........................$101,395.50
5.00
Dues from Lodges-prior lodges .....:.: .......,...... :.............
I;>ispensations ,... ,........... ., .. ,............ ,............,........................
170.00
Collections for secretaries~ ~nc! ..tre;i,surers~ bonds...... 1,928.40
·c harter .....................................................,...........,,-··············
50.00
Sale of old safe ............................:...... ,.,......................... -....
25.00
Sale of supplies :
Constitutions ................ :.....~ ......... ~ .........$2,517.05
Monitors ··············-····:.......,.:............ :...... 891.35
Receipts. for dues .::.:..•..:_ ....c•• : •••••.•••••••• 1,083.36
Blanks ...................................................... 683.59
Small Diplomas .•.,.., ..---·i-························ . 435.12
. ~arge Diplomas .............: ....!-····'············:• 147.25
Past Master's Diplomas ........ ,.. ,.... ,...., 454.50
. . •·· Digests ............•.. :.....,.,,;-.... ;, ....:,. ..>- •.- --+····· 1,826.85
·• · Installation Service and Proceedings
48.39
·' ·. :funeral servic.e~ · .................................... · 9 8 :~ 8
Masonic. Law _and sundry ...........-........ .
Masonic Education ...................... ,........... 149.07

8,768.47

Reimbursements: .. :t .~; .. · ·.. .
San Diego Board of Relief ........................$ 20.00
R. E. Dolley No: 61'6~ loan .. :................... 150.00
Chowchilla No. 485, loan .......................... 300.00
Sundry expense .... :..................................... 2.05

472.05

43 3 6

Cash Received by Grand TreaS1,rer

~?3~e~~1=~~~~-,: : : : : :~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~:,~:$ .i:~~:~~

Profit on iale of bonds......................................................
Bonds redeemed and sold............................................... ;..

659.71
19,463.75

Total cash received direct by Grand Treasurer..................

30,359.86

Total cash to account for ............:·····················································$192,182.58
Cash Dtsbursed Through Grand Secretary's Office
Grand Secretary's office expense:
11,465.00
..
4,500.00
Postage ..........................................................................
669.76
253.56
Telephone and telegraph ........................................... .
565.47
Supplies and sundry expense................................. .

i~l~~ie-~ :..~.~~-.::::::::::::::::::::·.:::::::::::~:::::::::~::::::::::::::::::~$

Grand Secretary's Accounts
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31,

39

Total cash received direct by Grand Secretary.....................$112,814.42

Printing and binding proceedings, etc.......................... .
Supplies for resale (revenue received per contra
$8,768.47):
Printing, binding and supplies ............... :................
Postage and shipping expense................................. .

5,518.52
7,517.01
669.77

General Fund
Salary-Grand Lecturer ....................................... .
Traveling expense-Grand Lecturer and
..

A:~~:t:~n-~~

17,453.79

. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :·

Relief-Order of the Grand Master
.
Reimbursing Masonic Homes for ~~t~·i·d~··;~j"j~·f
for those not eligible for admittance ................. .
Expenses-Board of Control... ................................ .
Expense-Annual communications ....................... .
Expenses-Public Schools Week. .......................... .
Expenses of Inspec;:tors ........................... ,.................. .
Gold buttons-fifty year veterans ........................... .
Inspectors' stationery and aprons ......................... .
Portraits of Past Grand Masters ( 4) .................. ,...
Present for Grand Master ....................................... .
Premium on secretary's and treasurer's bonds ....
Expense-Grand Treasurer ....................................
Salaries-Grand Organist and Grand Tiler......... .
Traveling expense-'-Grand Lodge officers ........... .
Miscellaneous expense ···························'·················
Social security tax6.--·····-.. ·······································:
Refund of dues-Lodges No. 243 and No. 612....
Appropriations:
Pa~ of representatives to Grand Lodge............ 16,23L46
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief ............. ;....:.
659.45
Employment Bureaus ............................................ 14,150.00
Traveling expense Grand Master 1939-40.......... 4,250.00

8,186.78

600.00
907.31
150.00
2,851.97
5,650.00
249.01
928.33
582.73
763.32
363.50
742.02
908.75
299.99
1,519.15
650.00
300.00
455.46
466.45
246.40
18.85

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

750.00
Traveling expense Grand Master 1938-39..........
Masonic Club Houses..............,............................. 15,200.00
Endowment Boar<l ................................................ 6,000.00
Grand Lodge Week activities.......•...................... 2,214.88
657.55
Grand Lodge Week-Exposition Day..............
500.00
Correspondence Committee ................................
76.83
History Committee ................................................
43.40
Education Com1nittee ················-·-············'··········
300.00
Rearranging of Constitution................................

$25.00 Initiation Tax, 1938-39:
Initiations ........•.......................3,215
Affiliations .............................. 312
E. A. and F. C....•,...................
1
Dual members ........................
3
. Total :...............................3,531 $ 88,275.00
61,033.57

Total disbursed by Grand Secretary....•.........................--.. -~$110,845.90
Cash Disbursed by Grand Treasurer
Purchase of bonds...................·-·········c····································-······-········ 31,687.25
Total all disburserµents .............................~................................$i42,533.15
Cash balance, July 31, 1940:
Funds with' Grand Treasurer.................................. 49,149.43
Funds with Grand Secretary....................................
500.00 $ 49,649.43

STATEMENT OF PER CAPITA DUES

Balance, fourth quarter 1938-39
collected during 1939-40................
Add, first three quarters 1939-40
collected during 1939-40................

31,000.00
55,575.00

Total cash received from fourth quarter
1938-39 and first three quarters 1939-40.... 86,575.00
Add, cash received prior years................................
75.00

Number

Per Capita
Rate

Amount

Initiated ·········-··········································· 3,215
Passed ........................................................ 3,239
Raised .......................................................... 3,254
9,708

86,650.00

Total cash collected for Masonic Homes and turned over to
the Grand Treasurer...............................:.........................•.....................$196,675.0CI

COLLECTED DURING 1939-40 FOR GRAND LODGE
FROM 1939 ANNUAL RETURNS

Total ....................................................

Less, first three quarters collected
and reported in 1939 proceedings 57,275.00

Total $25.00 initiation tax collected.................

Exhibit B-1

Degrees Conferred:

41

Cash Received From August I to September 30, 1940
General F1;1nd .........,.........................- .......,..................................$100,438.75
Home maintenance .................................................................. 48,659.60

fz~~; ~~i~;nt~;·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:~~~:~~
@$1.00

$ 9,708.00

Master Masons:
Membership-1939 ...................,.............. 126,739
Deduct-dues remitted .............•............ 4,489

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.
REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

Total .......................,............................ 122,250

@$ .75

Total Grand Lodge dues as per
annual returns of 1939..........................

91,687.50
$101,395.50

Cash received during the fiscal year 1939-40........................................$101,395.50
Exhibit B-2
STATEMENT OF PER CAPITA DUES AND HOME TAX
COLLECTED DURING 1939-40 FOR MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
FROM 1939 ANNUAL RETURNS AND
$25.00 HOME TAX FOR FIRST THREE QUARTERS OF 1939-40

Per capita dues 126,739 Master Masons :
(Less Masons whose dues were remitted, 4,489)
For maintenance @ 40c..............- •••.••••......••••..•...••..$ 48,900.00
For building fund @ SOc.................,.......................... 61,125.00
Total dues collected............................................. ····7"········-······$110.025.00

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31,

1940

General Fitnd
Cash balance, August 1, 1939....................................................................$ 48,508.30
Receipts
From Grand Secretary..................... ~ ...............................$112,814.42
Bank interest ...................................................................... 1,146.23
Bond interest ............................,..•............,.......................... 2,916.67
Dividends ............................................................................ 6,173.50
Bonds redeemed and sold:
$10,000 New York Telephone Co.,
matured .................;...........................$ 10,000.00
$10,000 Southern Pacific Co. 274%,
sold ..............................:..................... 10,123.46
Total receipts ..............................................................

20,123.46
143,174.28

Total cash to account for ................•.................•.......................$191,682.58

,42

;jj

. PROCEEDING~ OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALri'ORNIA

Stocks:
58,985 shares Masonic Temple Ass'n at paL...... S89,8SO.OO
200 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Com. pany, First preferred, SY,%, at cost.......... S,000.00

Disbursements
"
As per Grand Secretary's accounts,_ . ... .
,
expenses and appropriations............,.,...........,;.,,........,.$110,84S.90

Purchase of bonds:
$10,000 Imperial County Highway,
S% ...........................\ ...:•.,.....·.,..:......;..$ 10,22S.OO
$10,000 Metropolitan Wat.er Dis- ·
trict of Southern California, 4%.. ll,3'12.2S
$10,000 Elgin, J oilet & Eastern . .
. '. •
Railway Co., 3% o/o-:..:.. :;;.~.;.:........... 10,1 S0.00

43

594,850.00

Total assets ...........................:.......................................................$744,063.50
Capital Account
Balance, July 31, 1939.......<•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••:................................$7j.1,198.87

31,687.2S

Total disbursements ..........................::...::·-··············-·······:......$142,S33.1S
Cash balance, July 31, 1940:
Crocker First National Bank......................,.. ,...........$
618.81
The San Francisco Bank..'.'..:...............:.:::.............,.. 23,724.62
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Cd............:.:.... 13,282.S5
Bank of America...........:..::.......:...:.:..:: .... :~.~:.::.-:........ 10,983.00
Anglo Calirornia National Bank. ...................,......... 1,778.07 $ 49,149.43

Add, excess of revenue over expense 1939-40:
(based on 1939 annual returns)
Revenue received:
By Grand Secretary....................$112,814.42
By Grand Treasurer.................. 10,896.11 $123,710.53
Less expenses and appropriations..

110,845.90

Excess revenue ..................................................

·12,864.63

Balance, July 31, 1940..........., ................................;.,.....::.............;............$744,063.SO
WILLIAM

Exhibit D

P. FILMER,. Grand Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS. AND CAPITAL ACCOUNTS
JULY 31, 1940

General Fund
A~sets

Cash:
In Banks ................................................................;......$ 49,149.43
In revolving fund ....................,..............................,....
S00.00 $ 49,649.43
Bonds: (at cost)
$10,000 Elgin, Joilet & Eastern Railway Co.,
First mortgage 3%% due 1970.................. 10,lSO.OO
S,000 Golden Gp.te Bridge. & Highway
.· Distri<;t, 3}4% due 1962-3-7........................ S,_120.57
10,000 Imperial County, Highway,
S% due 1941-3................................................ 10,225.00
10,000 .Metropolitan Water District of
Southern California, 4% .due 1980............ l l,312.2S
20,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Company,
.
First mortgage, 334% due 1961................ 21,SOO.OO
3,000 Pacific Gas & Electric. Company,
First mortgage, 4% due 1964.................... 3,000.00
3,000 Railway Equipment & Realty Company,
First mortgage, 4Y,% due 1949................ 2,9S5.00
6,000 Southern Pacific Railroad Company,
.First mortgage, 4% due 19SS.................... S,S80.00
10,000 Southern Pacific Company, SO year,
40% due . 1981._................_......................... 9,56S.OO
..• --20;100 U. S. A. Treasury, 3%% due 194S.......... 20,156.2S

..

·rr.:.

99,S64.07

. ..~ . ·..

/

:

•

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
P~rsuant to the requirements of Section 50 of the Constitution and
Regulations I submit to you a report of my services as Grand Lecturer
during the past year. First, may I say that I am deeply grateful for having had the privilege of serving you in this high'office. It has been a year
of pleasant experiences, yet of some regrets. Regrets for not having been
able to answer all of the calls made upon me, but I have responded to every
case where time and circumstances would permit. I have handled all matters that have come before me for my attention, to the very best of my
ability and I hope, to the satisfaction of this Grand Lodge.

Traveling Expenses of Inspectors
Agreeable to the recommendations of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and the Committee on Finance, and in accordance with
their suggestions, I drafted a set of regulations governing claims for reimbursement of Inspectors for traveling expenses incurred in the discharge
of their official duties, and after submitting the same to the Grand Master
for his approval I forwarded a copy to each of the Inspectors in the jurisdiction. They read as follows:
January 1, 1940.
Regulations governing reimbursement of Inspectors for traveling expenses in performance of official duties for the period beginning October
13, 1939, and ending October 8, 1940.
In accordance with recommendation of the Committee on Finance the
following regulations will be observed by Inspectors in filing claims for
reimbursement:
1. No claim shall be made if Inspector receives money from the Lodge
visited.
2. No claim shall be made when distance traveled is less than twenty
miles for the round trip.
3.(a) When trip is made by public conveyance, claim shall be for actual fare paid.
(b) When trip is made by privately owned car, claim shall be on basis
of five cents per mile for actual mileage traveled.
(c) When two or mor~ Inspectors travel in same car claim shall be
made QY one Inspector only.
(d) When overnight stop is necessary, claim shall be for actual
amount paid for hotel and meals.
4. Claims shall be limited to two visitations to each Lodge for the
purpose of instruction or the performance of other official duties;
attending two schools of instruction with Assistant Grand Lecturer; and such other trips as may be made at the request of
the Grand Master or the Grand Lecturer.
In response to the request that a survey be made to determine the
probable cost, I addressed a letter to the Inspectors asking for information
relative to expenses incurred by them in visiting the Lodges of their respective districts, holding district meetings and schools of instruction, meeting with the Assistant Grand Lecturers and all other p'e rtinent information. After all replies had been received I compiled a detailed statement and
submitted a report to the Grand Master reading as follows :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

August 6, 1940.
William B. Ogden, Grand Master,
1301 No. Flores Street,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Most Worshipful Sir:
H~ving completed a survey m~-de at ~he direction of Grand Lodge to
determ1.ne the .Probable cost. of re1.mburs~ng Inspec~ors for traveling expenses m the discharge of their official duties, I submit the following report:
While it was the intent of the Committee of Inspectors and the Committee on Finance that no reimbursement should be made to those Inspectors serving in metropolitan areas, reports received indicate that there are
a number of Inspectors without, whose expenses are no greater than those
within, such areas. These Inspectors, together with those in metropolitan
areas, fifty-nine in number out of a total of 119 Inspectors have expressed
themselv:es as having. no desire for reimbursement and, the~efore, they have
been om!tted from this repc_>rt and only those Inspect<;>rs, 60 in number, who
are required to travel 20 miles or more on any one trip, have been included.
The minimum of 20 miles has been used because that is the minimum
prescribed in the regulations issued for the period October 1939 to October
1940, a copy of which is attached hereto.
'
'
'
Thirty-seven Inspectors filed claims for 1940 u~der the regulations
issued, for an amount of $772.82. Figures submitted by these 37 Inspectors
indicate a total estimated annual expense as follows:
For visiting Lodges
... . . ... . . . . . . . . .
. $ 949.60
For district meetings .................................................... 146.95
For meeting with the Assistant Grand Lecturer.... 535.25

Total..........................................................................$1631.80
Twenty-three Inspectors who did not file claims in 1940 either because
they chose not to do so or because they had received payme~t from Lodges
and who may file claims in the future if the plan is adopted submit figure~
indicating a total estimated annual expense as follows:
'
For visiting Lodges
$623.SO
For district meetings ...................................................... 127.80
For meeting with the Assistant Grand Lecturer...... 244.70
• ¥ . . . .. .. . .. . . . .. . . . . . , . . . . . .. . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .

Total........,.....................................................................$996.00
The total estimated annual expense at five cents per mile for visiting
Lodges, district meetings, and meetings with the Assistant Grand Lecturer,
plus cost of hotel and meals, based on the figures submitted by the sixty
Inspectors included in this report amounts to $2627.80. This figure does
not provide for special trips which may be made at the direction of the
Grand Master or the Grand Lecturer or for qualifying officers, assisting
in ~he · formation of new Lodges, etc., the cost of which it is impossible to
estimate.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER LEONARD,

Grand Lecturer.
A copy of this report was forwarded to the chairman of the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Jurisprudence. The detailed statement from which the report
was made is available for the inspection and use of the several committees.
The matter of reimbursement of Inspectors came up by offer of an
amendment to the Constitution. That amendment was referred to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes as to its policy and to the Committee on Finance as to the finances involved. The first named committee

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

asked for a survey to enable it to make some definit~ recommendati<;>n. The
second asked that the Grand Lecturer frame and present a resolution .that
would prevent abuses of the plan. I have made a survey and submitted
a copy of the report to the Committee. oi: Polic!. and General Purpo~es,
but I regret that I find it beyond my hm1ted ab1hty to draft a resolution
such as that requested until some plan has been adopted by the Grand
Lodge.
·
A study of the reports received from the Inspectors .r~veals .the fact
that many of the Lodges do not comply with the la.w requmn~ re1mb~~se­
ment of Inspectors for expenses incurred in performing the duties of v1s1t~­
tion. Some of the Lodges pay only part of the expense. The r~sult is
that the burden falls upon the Inspectors. Under the presen.t law, 1f coi:riplied with, the heaviest expense would fall upo.n the Lodges in. remote districts, while in the metropolitan areas there 1s no expense either to ~he
Lodge or to the Inspector. It would, therefore, seem that the mor~ eq.mtable method would be for Grand Lodge to pay the expense and d1stnbute
the cost proportionately over all the Lodges in the jurisdiction, and I recommend that such a policy be adopted.
Ritual Committee
The Ritual Committee, consisting of the Grand Lecturer and. the four
Assistant Grand Lecturers, has continued the custom of. meeting from
time to time and rehearsing the work. Three such meetings have been
held this year. Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller also attends these mee~­
ings, giving us the benefit of his knowledge as well .as the pleasure of his
company. The four Assistant Grand Lecturers have, in turn, held numerous
meetings with the Inspectors of their respective districts, and the result
of their efforts is evidenced in the uniformity of the work throughout the
jurisdii:tion.
Inspectors
Having served as an Inspector for many years, modesty tends to forbid my having too much to say in behalf of this group. N ever~h~less ~he
result of the recent survey has been a revelation and I feel that it is fit~ing
and proper for me at least to acknowledge their loyalty :ind. self-sac!1fice
and I cannot do otherwise than to commend them for their high efficiency.
in the ritual.
Fout' of our Inspectors have answered the summons of the Supreme
Grand Master since our last' annual communication:
Worshipful Harry A. Harper of District 25;
Worshipful Cha~les E. Green of District 24;
Worshipful Isaai:: C. Totman of District 17;
Worshipful Wilbert J. Stewart of District 90.
Brother. Stewart had served for fifteen years, Brother Harper for fourteen years and Brothers Totman and Green for thr~e and two years r~­
spectively. It is not my purpose to attempt to eulogize these brethren in
this report, but rather I leave that to others more able than I, and at the
appropriate time. .
Several Inspectors retired from office · during ~he year: Three ·of the;n,
being veterans,' 'I believe are entitld to spcial mention. I refer to Worshipful Brothers Kent J. C. C. Seymour, District 51; Wesley W. Kergan, District 35 · and Frand· D.· Caldwell, District 95. Each of these brethren· ·had
served for approximately· twenty years and ·while their resi~nations were
accepted· with regret, they surely have earned• a rest ·from their labors,· and

47

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

they carry with them the esteem, affection and sincere thanks of their
brethren.
Condition of Lodges
Section SO of the Constitution and Ordinances requires that the Grand
Lecturer shall make a report "setting forth the condition of the Lodges
throughout the jurisdiction." Section 53 requires the Inspectors to report
to .the Grand Lecturer "the working condition of each Lodge in his district," and to the Grand Master regarding other matters. From reports
sent to me I find a question rests in the minds of many of the Inspectors as
to what is meant by the phrase "working condition." I have construed it
to have particular reference to the ritual and degree work, inasmuch as other
matters are covered in the reports to the ·Grand Master, and I am confining myself t-0 that subject in this report.
Judging from reports received from the Inspectors, and from my own
observation, the ritual as taught by the Ritual Committee is being adhered
to, and in the vast majority of cases the work is being done in a satisfactory manner. In a few instances, in Lodges where there is little or no
degree work, the Inspectors report that it requires constant effort on
their part to maintain interest in the work. This situation no doubt will
adjust itself as conditions improve. About seven per cent of the Lodges
have had no degree work during the past year. Twelve per cent raised
only one candidate; forty-four per cent raised from two to five candidates;
twenty-five per cent raised from six to ten; twelve per cent raised more than
ten, the average in the latter group being fifteen and the greatest number
being twenty-eight.
Masters of Lodges should be particularly careful in conferring degrees
to see that there is no infraction of the law. In one instance this year the
degrees were conferred upon a candidate who could not meet the prescribed
physical qualifications. This matter is covered more fully in the message
of the Grand Master. There is another infraction to which I would call
the attention of Masters and Masons in general : That is the occasional
publication of the names of candidates for the degrees in Lodge bulletins,
and also at times in announcements sent out by degree teams to members
of their organizations. In fact, there recently appeared in one of our daily
newspapers an announcement that the degree team of a local bank was
to confer the third degree upon a candidate, giving his name. These things
are done inadvertently, of course, and I mention them as a reminder that
not only Lodge officers but all Masons are amenable to our laws.
I would also call to the attention of officers-elect for the coming year
the necessity of their having a: copy of the 1940 edition of the Constitution
and Ross Digest, as the questions on · law this year will be predicated upon
this book.
In conclusion, I wish to express my great pleasure in having had the
opportunity of working with our Most Worshipful Grand Master. I had
met Brother Ogden at Grand Lodge for many years when we were both
Inspectors, but it is only during the past year, through frequent contacts
with him that I have come really to know him, and I am indebted to him
for his kindly advice and counsel. I wish also to express my appreciation to
the Very Worshipful John Whicher, Grand Secretary, and to the members
of his staff, for the many courtesies extended to me throughout the year.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER LEONARD,

Grand Lecturer.

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes,
Jurisprudence and Finance.
At 12 :32 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 o'clock
this afternoon.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49

Jn ~r anb J.obge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 8, 1940.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :00 o'clock P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.

REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
Grand Master's Message

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The committee to which was referred the report of the Most Worshipful Grand Master begs leave to make its report.
The Grand Master has rendered to this Grand Lodge a report of his
stewardship and will ~oon surrender the power and authority given hm
a year ago. His report is an account of a year's work; hard work, work
both day and night. It is amazing that one man could crowd into a year's
time all that our Grand Master has accomplished; 40,000 miles of travel,
an official visit to each of the 119 lnspectorial Districts, 151 meetings, over
30,000 Masons in his audience. This, in addition to officially visiting the
Grand Lodges of Nevada and Arizona and attending the Grand Masters'
conference at Washington, D. C.
It is apparent that the Masons of this jurisdiction desire that the
Grand Master visit with them and are not satisfied with lesser lights, but
we must remember, my brethren, that the Grand Master is only human
and we should not tax him beyond his physical endurance and should so
arrange these meetings by grouping them through the Inspector and Inspectorial Districts that this load may be made as light as possible.
This committee believes that this load may be further lightened by
· requesting the Masters of the several Lodges to route all requests for decisions through their Inspectors. We have no doubt that many of the
questions presented to the Grand Master for decision might be answered
satisfactorily by the Inspector.
This jurisdiction rejoices that our Grand Master was so singularly
recognized at the Grand Masters' conference in being selected to give the
eulogy at the tomb of Brother George Washington. This address was
printed for distribution to all the Lodges. We commend it to you. We
urge you to read it again in your Lodge. It truly is a classic.
We recommend that the recommendations of the Grand Master be
disposed of as follows:
Recommendation No. 1--To Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Recommendations Nos. 2, 3, 4, and 5-To Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
We further recommend that the decisions of the Grand Master be
disposed of as follows ;

Gl<AND LODGE OF OALJFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

50

Decisions Nos. 1, 2, and 3-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 4-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.
Decisions Nos. 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9-To Jurisprudence Committee. -,
We further recommend that other parts of the Grand Master's message, segregated under separate headings, be disposed of as follows :
Necrology-To Committee on Necrology.
District O_fficers' Meetings-To Ritual Committee. ,
Physical Qualifications-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Militant Masonry-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Inspectors' Duties-To Ritual Committee.
Relief-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the
Finance Committee.
·
In conclusion, Most Worshipful Sir, we know that this Grand Lodge
joins with the committee in expressing their heartfelt thanks in appreciation
of a year of love, devotion and service rendered to Masonry in this jurisdiction and hope that we may long have your friendly and wise counsel.

Adopted.
Report of Grand Secretary

To the M:. W: . Grand Lodge of California:
The committee to which was referred the report of the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary begs leave to make its report.
·
Another year has passed· and our Grand Secretary has rendered another report. This, my brethren, has been going on for thirty-three years,
a third of a century. He is definitely a distinct asset to our Grand Lodge
and has been, no doubt, to all Grand Masters in the past thirty-three years,
"a very present help in time of trouble," and we trust that he will be with
us for many years· to come.
We recommend that his report be segregated as follows:
Death of Frank G. Hobbs-To Committee on Necrology,
New· Lodges (Barstow Lodge and Redwood Empire Lodge)-To Committee on Charters.
Trona Lodge-To Committee on Charters and to Finance Committee.
Consolidation of Lodges-To Charter Committee.
Duplicate Charters Issued-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Permission to Remove Meeting Place-To Jurisprudence Committee.
The Ross Digest-To Finance Committee.
Life· Memberships-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Dispensations Issued-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Amendments to By-Laws-To By-Laws Committee.
Trial Records-To Grievance Committee.
LAWRENCE

c. KELLEY,

ALFRED H. BRESLAUER,

C. C. REEVES,
Committee.

The reports were adopted.

51

ANNUAL ORATION
(by LEO E. ANDERSON, Grand Orator)
OCTOBER

8, 1940

Civic Responsibilities of Masons
Mingled with the pleasure of speaking to you today is a sense of responsibility, and genuine concern, not only as to what I should say on
this occasion that might be of value to you, but also what I must say if
Masonry is to be a living force. Upon reflection, it has seemed to me that
I could not better employ this opportunity than to bring home to you
with such emphasis as I can, the truth of a conviction that has more and
more gained upon me as the years have gone by. That conviction, briefly
put, amounts to this: That upon the members of the Masonic fraternity,
whose predecessors were largely responsible for our form of government,
and the situation under which we live, and more especially upon the Masters and Wardens of the various Lodges, there evolve public duties and
civic responsibilities which they may not any longer ignore or evade without neglecting the trust imposed in them.
These are perilous times in which we are living. Our ritual, in a lecture of the second degree, expresses the present international situation
better than I could when it say~:
"The lapse of time, the ruthless hands of ignorance, · and
the devastations of war, have laid waste and destroyed many
valuable monuments of antiquity on which the utmost exertions of human genius were employed."
Nothing could portray more graphically the picture of today, except
to add that those same forces also have destroyed, and are destroying,
the rights and privileges of free men and of citizens, as known to Americans. Those rights and privileges are "valuable mon.uments of antiquity
on which the utmost exertions of human genius were employed" and,
U!]less guarded, bid fair to disappear from the world.
You brethren know that our forefathers and predecessors in Freemasonry here in America fought, bled and died to secure the blessings of
liberty to themselves and to their posterity. You brethren know that the
ilrmy, under that great Mason, George Washington, was officered almost
entirely by Masons. You brethren know that the Constitutional Convention, which gave us the basic law of the land, was largely composed of
Masons and that that Constitution clearlr e!Tibodies those three great
principles for which Masonry has stood. thro_u gh ·the centuries, .religious
freedom, political freedom and education. You brethren will recall that
when Benjamin Franklin, the venerable. Grand Master of. Masons in Pennsylvania, emerged from the Convention hall and was 'a~ICed, "What kind
of a government have _you given us?" he r_e plie_d , "A .:Reiiublic~ ' if you can
keep it." In the light of this knowledge I propose to discuss the public
duties and civic responsibilities of Masons and particularly Masons as
citizens. I ask ydu to consider what kind ·of citizens should we Masons be
and what are a Mason's· duties as a citizen.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The fundamental premise upon which the Constitution was based was
that the government was the servant of the people, not that the people
were the servants of the government. The Constitution grants to the government certain powers and all others are reserved to the several states
and to the people. It seems clear to me and history has demonstrated that
unless the people seriously assume their duties and responsibilities as
citizens, the government assumes more and more power and soon becomes
the master rather than the servant of the people.
In proportion as public opinion is wise and enlightened, . the . government will be enlightened and wise. In other words, the people will always
have as good a government as their intelligence and patriotism deserve and
no better. In the long run, government can be made better only by the
improvement of the public opinion upon which it rests. From time immemorial history shows that the brightest Jewels in the Diadem of Wisdom
and Integrity have been members of our great Fraternity. The need of our
day in America requires that Masonry again furnish to our nation men of
wisdom, men of integrity, men of ability, men capable of molding public
opihion in their several communities away from the radicalism to which
we have fallen and back to sanity and Americanistic tradition.

and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution
for the UNITED States of America."
Thus, in the first part of the first degree, we find the first element of
citizenship, namely, unity.
Let us explore further. The charge of the first degree tells us to regard
the volume of the sacred law as the great light of our profession and "in
it you will learn the important duties which you owe to God, your country,
your neighbor and yourself." Then we are told, and I quote:
"As a citizen you are enjoined to be exemplary in the discharge of your civil duties by never proposing or countenancing any act which may have a tendency to subvert the
peace and good order of society, by paying due obedience to
the laws under whose protection you live, and by never losing
sight of the allegiance due to your country."

52

It is for you as individuals to examine all proposals of political change
in a light of knowledge and under the guidance of judgment and to appraise
each at its true value. It is for you as individuals to recognize and expose
the fallacies which too often lie in novelty and pretension; to caution and
restrain those who would rush blindly into a field of political expel"imentation; to instruct the uninformed and the thoughtless that our Constitution
affords in itself the best and surest means of constructive and wholesome
change. In brief, it is for you to guard our system against the proposals
and reckless innovations which would cheapen it to a scheme of inconsistencies.
Now you brethren may properly ask why I have chosen to discuss this
subject so seriously. Let me tell you. All of us here are Masters, Wardens,
or Past Masters of our Lodges. You are familiar with the ritual and ceremonies of our Fraternity. Therefore, in a11swer to your question, I shall
quote of few portions of the ritual and of our ceremonies. You will find
that citizenship should be one of your particular interests and you may be
surprised to find how closely it is woven into the fabric of Freemasonry.
The reason for the great stress laid upon citizenship in our ritual is obvious.
No individual a·nd no organization can shut itself away from the life of the
community in which it lives. No individual is so self sufficient that he can
go through life disregarding that community life and not affected by its
changes. No individual is so unimportant that he should not add his voice
to the composite voice of the community. Every man, whether he knows it
or not, is a citizen. Let us see what our ritual has to say about citizenship.

In the first !legree, while the candidate makes his first trip around the
Lodge, he hears the Chaplain say: "Behold how good and pleasant it is
for brethren to dwell together in unity." "Unity," the word alone brings
me a feeling of pleasure. It is the foundation of citizenship and of society.
It was uppermost in the minds of those great Masons who did so much
to give us our Constitution. You will recall the preamble of that Constitution:
"WE, the people of the UNITED States, in order to form
a more perfect UNION, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the COMMON defense, promote the GENERAL welfare and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves

53

We are then told :
"As an individual you are charged to practice the domestic
and public virtues."
There, in the first degree, plainly and forcibly, emphasis is laid upon
our duties as citizens, but our ritual does not stop there. From the reference in the ritual to the beehive, I take a clear description of man's re.latio~ship to man and a Mason's duty to his community, and I quote:
"When we take a survey of nature, we view man in his infancy-more helpless and indigent than the brute creation. He
lies languishing for days, months, and years, totally incapable
of providing sustenance for himself, of guarding against the
attack of the wild beast of the fi.eld, or sheltering himself from
the inclemencies of the weather. It might have pleased the
Great Creator of heaven and earth to have made man independent of all other things, but his dependence is one of the
strongest bonds of society. Mankind were made dependent on
each other for protection and security as they thereby enjoy
better opportunities of fulfilling the duties of reciprocal love
and friendship. Thus was man formed for social and active
life, the noblest part of the work of God, and he that will so
demean himself as not to be endeavoring to add to the common
stock of knowledge and understanding may be deemed a drone
in the hive of nature, a useless member of society, and unworthy of our protection as Masons."
And finally in our ceremonies of the installation of officers we find the
charges given to each incoming Master of his Lodge in this jurisdiction.
Those charges include the following:
"You agree to be a peacable citizen and cheerfully to conform to the laws of the country in which you reside.
"You promise not to be concerned in plots and conspiracies
against government, but patiently to submit to the decision of
the supreme legislature.
"You agree to pay a proper respect to the civil magistrate, to
work diligently, live creditably and act honorably by all men."
Following these charges, the installing Master states to the incoming
Master with reference to the brethren of his Lodge:
"Charge them to practice out of the Lodge those duties
which they have been taught in it."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

And in his closing statement to the members of the Lodg~, the installing Master says :
·
"Within your peaceful walls may your children's children
celebrate with joy and gratitude the annual recurrence of this
auspicious solemnity."

privilege which can be conferred upon a citizen. It is his privilege of self. e)!:pression in the selection of those who shall stand over him in authority
in the administration of the affairs of the nation, the state and the community and it is a privilege which too many of us do not take advantage of.
George Washington in his first inaugural address stated our responsibility in these words:
"The preservation of the sacred fire of liberty and the destiny
of the republican model of government are justly considered,
perhaps, as DEEPLY, as FINALLY, staked on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American people."

54

I could quote many other portions of our ritual and ceremonies to
illustrate the great stress placed upon om: -citizenship as Masons, but the
quotations I have given you should suffice. ·
You prethren know that you .o.nly get out of anything, and . particularly
Masonry, that which you put into it. The Mason who joins a Lodge and
never attends a meeting gets very little ..in return for his investment in
Masonry. The Mason who attends meetings, studies the ritual and joins in
. Masonic fellowships gains much from Masonry, . carries Masonry onward
and continually finds new philosophy unnoticed before. So it is with citizenship. The man who practices citizenship and engages in civic activities
gains much from his citizenship, contribut~ to better government and
hands down to posterity the rights and privileges he enjoys. As our Most
Worshipful Grand Master has said many times during his travels in the
past year, the standing of the Masonic Fraternity depends upon the standing of its members. Where it is active and in good repute we find the memo
hers of the local Lodge active in civic affairs, honest in business and giving
freely of their time in the discharge of their duties as citizens. Where
Masonry is inactive and the community uninterested in it, we find the
members of the local Lodge inactive· in civic affairs . and lax in the discharge of their duties as citizens. That is a practical illustration of the necessity that we Masons be good, active citizens. It also shows that we must
educate and encourage our members to be good citizens, but above all we
must practice citizenship. I do not advocate that our Lodges as organizations participate in politics, but I do .a dvocate that Masons as citizens
must take a real interest in government and community life.
. Since we learn by doing, we shall never become good citizens simply
by studying civic relations and problems. Nothing was ever solved or
accomplished by shifting our problems and our duties to others. We all
know that our individual requirements are so various and our system of
living so complicated that no individual actually provides for himself more
than a few of the things necessary to his existence and comfort. The house
in which you live h·a s b'e en built by one set of men, painted by another,
and provided with plumbing by a third. Your carpets have probably come
from one state, your furniture from another and your pictures from a
third. Your everyday needs and wants have been supplied by the exertions
of a multitude of workers, some of whom live in America, but , many of
whom reside in foreign lands. Each of you must of necessity do the work
for which you are particularly fitted, depending at all times upon the assurance that the other fellow will do the work for which he is particularly
fitted, conscientiously and dependably. 'If it were otherwise, you ·could not
exist and live as you now exist and live. Thus we see that the fact that you
are a citizen gives you many rights that every member of the group enjoys.
No person may claim all of the advantages of citizenship ani1 then' live in
seclusion and do no work with his fellows. If he is to associate with his
fellows, he must not only be a fit fellow with whom to associate,. but he
should be such a citizen that others will gain advantage from acquaintance
and friendship with him. If he needs, as all of us do, the cooperation of
those with whom he lives and works, he must expect to contribute what
he can. Some people think that the right to vote' is the right otcitizenship.
The .rig ht to vote is merely a privilege of'citizenship but it is tl-!'e'··h ighest

SS

Whether 't hat experiment which has succeeded so marvelously in the
last 150 years ' will continue to succeed depends upon the citizens of this
country. It' depends upon their use of the priviieges which they enjoy.
It depends· upon their interest in government. It depends upon whether
· or not they will, by their intelligence and interest, select proper men and
women to· carry on the affairs ·of our government. Longfellow said: "For
some must follow and some command, though · all are made of clay."
It behooves us as citizens to see that those who command are made of
the finest kind of clay. That means interest in government-not just voting
for someone ahd then forgetting that he needs help to carry out the job
you have given him. It means interest in politics, a word that has been
much misunderstood. Politics means government and interest in politics
· means interest in government. That is one of our real duties as citizens.
To what does this discussion lead us? I believe it brings us to the
· question, for what does Masonry exist?
You are all familiar with the globe, which we are told is for improving
the mind and for giving it the most distinct ide.a of any problem or proposition as well as enabling it to solve the same. What is the end and purpose
. of our Order?· I believe it is to diffuse light, that is, to spread knowledge
among men.
You might agree with the historian Krause that the ultimate purpose
is to perfect men, to make them better, wiser and consequently happier,
but the means' of achieving this perfection is general diffusion of knowledge.
Hence, above: all things, Masonry exists to promote knowledge. The Mason
ought first of all to cultivate his mind. He ought to study the liberal arts
_a nd sciences, he ought to be become a learned man.
The state seeks to make men better and happier by preserving order.
The church seeks this end by cultivating the moral person and by holding
in the background supernatural ~anctions. Masonry endeavors to make men
better and happier by teaching them and by diffusing knowledge among
them. This, bear in mind, was true before education of the masses had become a function of the state.
Society is divided sharply into classes that unde~stand each other
none too well and hence are getting wholly out of sympathy. What nobler
Masonic lecture could there be than one which took up the fundamentals
of social science and undertook to spread a sound knowledge of it among
all nations? Suppose such a lecture on citizenship were prepared, delivered
in Lodge after Lodge, and after criticism and recasting as a result of years
of labor, was taught to all our Masters, would not our Lodges diffuse
a real light in the community and take a great step forward in their work
of making for human perfection?
We are taught that the roof of the Mason's workshop is nothing less
than the "clouded canopy or star-decked heavens" and that nothing that
goes on beneath th~t spacious covering can be wholly alien to us. The needs

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

56

57

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of no one time and of no one people can circumscribe our objects. If the
Craft is to be perpetual, it must appeal to each time as well as to all times.
It must have in its traditions something that Today can use, although
Yesterday could not use and Tomorrow need not. Hence we may properly
inquire: what can we make of this wonderful tradition of which we are
the custodians that will serve the world of today?
Our task as members of society is to advance civilization by asserting
ourselves consciously and intelligently to that end. Every man may do this
in some measure in his time and place. So every man may retard or obstruct
civilization in some degree in his time and place.
What will serve civilization in the world of today? I believe the great
need of today to be the practice of citizenship, interest in our form of government and the protection of those inalienable rights of free men which
are under attack all over the world and without which civilization will
falter and fall back toward the dark ages. We Americans of today were
born to those rights, we did not have to fight, bleed or die to secure them,
but we may yet have to fight, bleed and die to keep them.
Few can really appreciate what we have here in America until they
have seen the immigrants from foreign lands entering New York harbor
and coming off the boats to set foot on our soil. They have lived under the
systems of government in Europe-they know what those systems are.
They know what living conditions are there. They come to America because they want to. They are not here simply because an accident of birth
made them Americans. They appreciate what America has to offer, and to
see them fall upon their knees and kiss the soil of this great free country
would make you realize what this country offers as nothing else could. It
would make you dedicate yourself to the task of working and fighting to
keep those things. And finally, may I leave you with this thought.
I believe in America as I believe in God and I know that as Freemasonry did a great work in the past of America, so it can do a still greater
work in the future of our country. With the utmost respect and regard for
other lands and peoples, our care and our energy is for America, our
America, God's America, to keep it true to its high heroic tradition.

On motion of Past Grand Master Burke, the Grand Secretary
was instructed to have the Oration printed in pamphlet form and
a copy distributed to each Lodge in the jurisdiction.

ANNUALREPORTOFTRUSTEESOFTHE
MASONIC HOMES
To the M.' . W.'. Grand Lodge of California :
The forty-eighth annual meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California was held immediately after the close of Grand
Lodge on October 13, 1939, and organized by the election of officers as
follows:
Charles M. Wollenberg, (term expires 1942) President.
James B. Gist, (term expires 1943) Vice-President:
The other members present were:
Samuel E. Burke (term expires 1940).
Chas. Albert Adams (term expires 1941.
Lloyd E . Wilson, Deputy Grand Master.
Frank M. Smith, Senior Grand Warden.
Leslie E. Wood, Junior Grand Warden.
The Homes are our greatest care. They require constant thought an<l
attention. ·The Trustees, as your representatives, not only direcli the operation of our two Homes but assist mothers to care for their children in theii
own homes, Masons and widows in their homes or help them in securing
Old Age Aid.
We do not believe there exists anywhere a finer expression of Masonic
charity than is represented by our Masonic Homes and we should never
permit any lowering of the standards there established.
It is not the intent of your Trustees in this report to take up the details
of the Homes' operation. You will find this in detail in the splendid reports
of Superintendent · Hartman of Decoto and Superintendent Downen of
Covina. It is hoped you will carefully read them.
Responsibility of Lodges
Few Lodges realize or understand their responsibility with reference to
payments for maintenance of wards at the Masonic Homes where the applicant is admitted to the Home, whether a child or adult, and it is ordered or
agreed that legally responsible relatives shall contribute toward their maintenance. The Lodge and not the legally responsible relative is charged with
the amount to be paid and it is therefore incumbent upon the Lodge to collect from the legally responsible relative and remit to the office of the
Masonic Homes, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. In other words, the
Masonic Homes deal directly with the Lodge rather than with the individual, therefore, the Lodge is required to pay whether the legally responsible relative reimburses the Lodge or not. Instances have occurred whereby ·
legally responsible relatives pave had a change in their financial status and
could no longer contribute, in which case the Lodge found it necessary to
appeal to the Trustees for a reco.nsideration of the case. The Field Worker
then reinvestigates the case where it is deemed advisable, especially on behalf of children, State Aid may be secured.
In May, 1940, due notice was sent to all Lodges that from and after that
date all remittances with respect to payments for account of legally respon-

59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND ,LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sible relatives and excess quota items were to be made direct to the office
of the Masonic Homes instead of to Covina and Decoto as theretofore. At
that time it was found that a number of Lodges had failed to make the
agreed collections from the legally responsible relatives and therefore had
not remi~ted to the Masonic Homes, and it was likewise found that Lodges
were delinquent under the excess quota rule. At this writing all but two
Lodges have liquidated or adjusted the arrearages above referred to.
Attention is also brought before the Lodges in consideration of children accepted into the Masonic Home where an estate or trust fund has
been left to the child. Upon admission to the Home it is the ·Lodge's responsibility to conserve these funds .for the benefit of the child until his
dismissal from the Home.

fully to perform regular duties..and to those who, due to age or physical
handicaps, can only work at int~.ryals but whos~ , e~orts result in the beautifyi_ng of o~r grounds, ~be tha1_1ks of the Fraternity are due.

58

1

Scholarships
. With funds generously donated for the purpose, we · are enabled to
assist graduates from the Covina Home to secure vocational training or
university education, thus fitting them for self-support. In the last fiscal
!ear we received for the benefit of the Scholarship Fund in dividends and
in~erest the sum of $1571.92, and from loans returned by beneficiaries now
gainfully employed the sum of $482.50, a total income of $2,054.42. Out
of this we disbursed to worthy children $1,510.87.
In connection with the Scholarship Fund, we· may mention here the
good work of three former beneficiaries and graduates of the Home who on
several occasions appeared before Lodges and spoke of their experiences.
One is Fred Prewitt, who was admitted to the Home in 1919 from Sisson
Lodge No. 310 and graduated from the high school at Covina. in 1924.
Fred is now in business for himself at Woodland. Another is Byron Athan,
admitted from Petaluma Lodge No. 180 in 1927, graduated in 1936 and is
now in his second year in law school. . .The third one is Anna May' Miller,
who was admitted to the Home in 1925 from Durant Lodge No. 268 and
was graduated from high school and dismissed in 1937. She 'is now in her
senior year at the University of California at Berkeley. These children were
chaperoned by Elsie Schulte, Hermann Lodge No. 127, who was graduated
from the Home in 1929 and later took a course in pedagogy at the San
Francisco State Teachers College and is now an accomplished and efficient
Investigator for the Masonic Homes.
.
The talks of these Home. graduates to the brethren were enthusiastically
received and did much to bring home to their hearers just what the Masonic
!fome is doing for children.
Labor by Residents
Under the rules and regulations established by the Board, all residents
are required to perform such duties in or about the Home as may be required . by any authorized representative of the Trustees, unless in the
opinion of a licensed physician they are physically unable to do so. This
rule is .necessary and its cheerful acceptance by residents goes far to enhance their happiness and contentment and in maintaining a real homelike
atmosphere.
'·.
Unfortunately, some-and happily they are few in number-do. not
seem to adjust themselves to their environment and are therefore unhappy
in their idleness. But in general the residents do adjust their lives to their
new condition, thus tending largely to make our Masonic Home what it is
intended to be-a real home.
It would take too much time to name all the men and women who
assist in the physical conduct of the Home, but to all who volunteer cheer-

Christmas Entertainment
tEach November a Christma~ c~!":d is sent to all. Lodg~s i.n the jurisdiction suggesting a donation to. the Christmas and Entertainment Fund. The
response is generous but ·not .sufficient to meet the activities usually charged
against it. From it we provide: a gift and cash allofment for each member
of the Honie at Christmas and meet the expenses of the camp at Balboa
maintained for the children in the summer, as well as other recreation not
ch~rgeable to the General Fund.
A more generous response would enable us to give each resid~nt of the
Home at Decoto $1.00 ·a month as pin money. Many Lodges see that their
members receive spending money on occasions, but there are others too
proud to ask, with empty pockets. We believe such an allowance will be of
value to the discipline of "the Home as well as to· the morale of the resident.
Recommendation
We recommend that the per capita tax for the coming year remain at
40 cents.
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG,
JAMES B. GIST,
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS,
SAMUEL E. BURKE,
LLOYD E. WILSON,
FRANK M. SMITH,
LESLIE E. Woon,

Trustees.

Report adopted, except the recommendation of the per capita
tax, which was referred to the Finance Committee.
Report of Auditors
To the B~ard of Trustees, .Masonic Homes of California:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Masonic Homes of
California for the fisc.a l year ended July 31, 1940 and present the following
statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit B: Balance Sheet, General Fund, July 31; 1940.
Schedule B-1: Statement of Securities, Insurance Policies and Notes
and Contracts Receivable-General Fund.
Schedule B-2: Summarized Statement of Entert,ainment Fund.
Schedule B-3: Summarized Statement of Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund.
Schedule B-4: Summarized Statement of "C. N. Flint Trust Fund."
Schedule B-5: Summarized Statement of "C. N. Flint Annuity Fund."
Schedule B-6 : Summarized Statement of "C. N. Flint Annuity 'Morgan' Fund."
Schedule B-7: Summarized Statement of "George and l{arriet Wadleigh Annuity Fund."
Schedule 'B-8: Summarized Statement of Sundry Funds.
Exhibit C: Statement of Revenue and Expense.
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Decoto.

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit E: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Schedule D-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail, at Decoto.
Schedule E-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail, at Covina.

Securities, Notes, Contracts, Real Estate, etc.:
All of the securities listed under Schedule B-1 have been received by
clonation. The stated or book value represents the value placed upon the
securities at the time of donation. Where the value of the security is unknown it is recorded at a nominal value of $1.00 solely for purpose of record.
Notes and contracts receivable are listed at the unpaid balance as on
July 31, 1940. Insurance policies, received mainly from residents of the
Home have been recorded at the amount recoverable at the death of the
insured except in certain cases where the value has not been determined, in
which case entry is at a nominal value of $1.00.
Real estate has been recorded at the assessed value as taken from the
tax bills. Although a number of parcels were sold during the year, there
still remains on hand real estate at an assessed value of $14,710.00.
Trust and Annuity Funds:
Under Schedules B-4, B-5, B-6, B-7, and B-8 are shown the details of
the various trust and annuity funds. Payments due from these funds according to the contracts and agreements were made from the general fund
of the Homes which should be reimbursed as sufficient cash is available
in the various funds.
General:
All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
The securities and notes were verified by certification from the Anglo California National Bank which holds certificates and notes in trust. All life
insurance policies are at the office of the secretary and were checked to the
subsidiary ledger accounts.
Sufficient examination and tests were made of the detailed revenue and
expense accounts to satisfy ourselves as to the general correctness of the
accounting. Detailed distribution of the operating expenses of the Homes
were made by Decoto and Covina offices and were accepted as correct after
we had verified amounts by totals.
A summary of all funds as at July 31, 1940 shows the following :
Homes General Fund (Exhibit B) ......................................$2,491 ,974.50
Entertainment Fund (Overdrawn) r.:>chedule B-2)........
4,291.66
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund (Schedule B-3)..
47,027.64
C. N. Flint Trust Fund (Schedule B-4) ............................ 106,858.62
Gloria Benjamin Fund (Schedule B-8)..............................
1,056.56
Charles L. Patton Reserv:e Fund (Schedule B-8) ...:......
40,000.00
Special Entertainment Fund for Decoto Residents
(Schedule B-8) .,....................................................................
4,076.88
Annuity Funds ............................................•........................... 154,591.53
Endowment Fund .................................................................. 1,228,584.89
Total.......................... _......................................................$4,069,878.96
We certify that, in our opinion, subject to the foregoing. comments, the
attached statements set forth the financial condition of the Masonic Homes
of California as at July 31, 1940 and the result of operations for the year.
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

61

Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

General Fund
Cash Balance, August 1, 1939•................................•....,.,.............,..,.....•.•$ 65,325.55
Receipts
From Revenue Accounts:
1939 annual returns :
Homes maintenance dues..............$ 48,900.00
Homes building fund dues............ 61,125.00
$25.00 Homes tax........,................... 86,650.00 $196,675.00
Endowment Fund income:
Regular fund- ···················-····································· 36,051.72
General maintenance--credits from subsidiary
accounts (cash and income from, and proceeds from sales of, securities, real estate, insurance policies, etc., turned over to the
Homes) .................................................................... 30,062.32
Excess quota from Lodges.................... _..•............... 8,764.26
5,812.84
State aid for Coyina..•.~·············-···············'······..······ ..
Outside relief, not eligible for Home relief, reimbursed by Grand Lodge.................................... 5,650.00
Funeral expense refunds............................................ 4,951.39
Miscellaneous income:
Farm sale~Covina .............:..........$
Meals sold to visitors-Covina....
Farm sales-Decoto........................
Farm rent-Decoto... _...................
Sundry income-Decoto................
Gas refund, 1933-36-Decoto........
Interest on San Dimas Water
Co. note ............................:...........
Insurance refunds............................

1,561.29
307.70
12.95
334.11
51.79
162.36
123.84
263.62

2,817.66

Total from revenue accounts .......................... 290,785.19
Reimbursements from Trust Funds:
The three C. N. Flint fun.ds............$ 1,483.80
The two W;idleigh funds.................. 3,125.00

4,608.80

For Account of Other Funds :
Entertainment fund ............................ 6,961.11
Students' Loan fund ...:.......: ................ 11,828.32
Decoto residents' special entertainment fund ...........- ........- ...................; 4,076.88

22,866.31

Total rece,ipts......................:..............................:...................... 318,260.30
Total cash to account for ................................:.....................................-..•$383~585.85

GRAND .LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

63

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

62

Exhibit B

Disbursements
Expense Accounts:
Operating expense-Decoto ...... :...............................$135,369.88
Operating expense-Covina........... ·--····-·-···---···-·-····· 92,180.25
Outside relief........................................................ :....... 23,615.00
Outside care of children............................................
2,227.88
General maintenance-debts of subsidiary accounts (insurance, taxes, and other expense on
property turned over to the Homes)---····-··--·--··· 11,423.20
Funeral expenses -··-·---------------·-·--·--·---·--·-··-----··--·--·---4,677.58
Administrative and general expense:
Taxes ·····--···-···-·: ...............................$
Insurance ···-····-··--····-···-···-···----··--···-·
Field investigation expense:
Northern DistricL.-------···-···-···-·
Southern District----·······-·----··--·-·
Reimbursed Grand Lodge-Secretary' s and assistant's salaries ..
Trustees' expense----·········-··-----···---·
Auditing ·----·----··-----------·--··---------··--···
Safekeeping of securities _______________ _
Refund to Pajaro Lodge No. 110
Misce11aneous -----·-----------·-·------·------·

3,288.76
5,323.21
2,206.35
2,747.16
1,800.00
469.31
550.00
250.00
50.00
405.44

Cash:
In banks;................ '···············•····~·--····-$ 50,893.13
Revolving funds-Decoto and
Covina ..............................................
1,000.00 $ 51,893.13

Securities, Real Estate,' etc. (Donated):
General fund securities
(Schedule B-1) ···-··--·--·----·····--··-·---·· 63,296.49
Real estate (assessed value)............ 14,710.00

Due from Other Funds:
Trust and annuity funds ................... .
Luckenbach fund ·······-·-·--················--·
Entertainment fund ...........,............... .

17,090.23

Trust Funds-To Be Reimbursed:
5,443.19

For Account of Other Funds:
Entertainment fund ............................ 8,154.64
Students' Loan fund ................... ,........
1,510.87
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment .. 30,000.00

JULY 31, 1940

Assets

Note Receivable-San Dimas Water Co ...

Total expense accounts .................................... 286,584.02

The three C. N. Flint funds .............. $ 2,318.19
The two Wadleigh funds·-·-·------······--3,125.00

BALANCE SHEET--GENERAL FUND

Total disbursements................................................................ 331,692.72
Cash Balance, July 31, 1940......................................................................$ 51,893.13

Composition of Balance
Anglo California National Bank, commercial... ...........$ 5,080.39
Security First National Bank of L. A., commercial.... , · 10,353.22
Sundry savings accounts-re co1lection of notes........
2,133.23
Anglo California National Bank, savings account...... 33,326.29
1,000.00
Revolving funds-Decoto and Covina..........................
Total, as above ......... ~ .............................'..•................................$ 51,893.13

704.60
4,193.19
4,913.93
4,291.66

13,398.78

Properties: (at cost-no depreciation
taken)
Land, buildings and equipmentDecoto ............................................... 1,787,839.48
Land, buildings and equipmentCovina .............................................. 606,093.98
Land and improvementsCamp Tucker.................................. 23,096.00 2,417,029.46

Stures and Supplies:
Deco to ..................................................
Covina ..................................................
39,665.51

78,006.49

582.57
2,463.99

3,046.56 '

Total assets ................................ :............ :................................ $2,564,079.02

Liabilities
Due to Other Funds:
Students' Loan fund ....................................................$ 28,027.64
Charles L. Patton Reserve fund .....:........................ 40,000.00
Decoto residents' special entertainment fund............
4,076.88
Total Liabilities................................................................... .

72,104.52

Excess of assets over liabilities ................., ..........................................$2,491,974.50

Capital Account
Balance, August 1, 1939.. ·-·--·········----····-·-·.······-···-··············-·--·--·-······-····-$2,539,318.32

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Add:
Excess of revenue over expense 1939-40
(Exhibit C) .;~:,..,_~.•• _,..,..:...,...~··-_;·-·······-····$ 4,388.25
Securities and real estate donated 1939-40............
6,654.62

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11,042.87

Total.._.,....................................-···-----····--·········----··--"·"····--· 2,550,361.19
Deduct:
Charles L. Patton reserve set aside ........................$ 40,000.00
Book value of securities and real estate sold
1939-40. Entire proceeds recorded as revenue.. 18,386.69

58,386.69

Balance, July 31, 194.0..........- ...............................- .................................. $2,491,974.50

Schedule B-1
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES, INSURANCE POLICIES, AND
NOTES AND CONTRACTS RECEIVABLE
GENERAL FUND-JULY 31, 1940

Stocks Donated
Book Value
Shares
Ambassador Hotel Co. of L. A., Part. certificate .......... $
1.00
5
Anglo California N ati6nal Bank, preferred......................
320.00
20
Anglo California National Bank, class A common........
140.00
10
Bank of America, N. T . & S. A.:............... r......................
472.50
9
Daily News Corporation, class C common......................
3.00
3
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., common........................
25.00
1
Graton & Knight Co., preferred........................................
400.00
10
Graton & Knight Co., common..........................................
10.00
4
G. M. C. Metallic Grease Co. of Calif., preferred..........
200.00
2
G. M. C. Metallic Grease Co. of Calif., common............
100.00
1
Home Insurance Co. of New Yotk.................................. _ 3,350.00
103
Kern County Mutual Building & Loan Assn.................
1,500.00
15
Lloyd Oil Corporation ..,............................................. :.........
70.00
70
Masonic Hall Association of Alameda..............................
60.00
6
McKeon Canning Co., common..........................................
200.00
2
National Leather Co., preferred .............. :.........................
100.00
1
National Leather Co., common..........................................
50.00
5
Orinda Petroleum Co. Ltd., class A common..................
44.00
2
37.08
1853 1/100 Pacific Empire Holdings ...............................................~.....
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% preferred........................
350.00
14
Southern California Edison Co., Ltd., common............
100.00
4
Stoney Rouleau & Stoney, Inc •.,...................,..................,.
6.00
6
Texon Oil and Land Co........................... ,.....•.•....•.--;.......
7.00
7
Transamerica Corporation ..................................................
1,242.50
49
8/100 United Cigar-Whelan Stores Corp., common..................
1.00
1
United Stores Corp, cla.ss A ........~····-···•--····"'·· ...··'········•
1.00
Total stocks ................ .: .............. :·························--········..$ 8,790.08

65

Bonds-Donated
$ 500 Ambassador Hotel Co., Income mtg. S. F. 5% 1950..........$
1500 Market St. Ry. Co., First mtg. S. F. 5% 1945....................... .
1000 Tilden Lumber & Mill Co., S. F. 6%% 1946......:................. ..

214.00
1,500.00
160.00

Total bonds .....................................................:................$

1,874.00

Building and Loan Certificates-Donated
California Mutual Building & Loan Assn. (claim) ............................ $
Col~mbia Guarantee Building & Loan Assn. (claim) ....................... .
Pac1;c States Savings & Loan Assn ...................................................... .

22.42
44.66
693.75

Sa~io~:ee~¥~e~~~o~s~:~..~~~~ ~ ...............................................................
Southern Calif. Building & Loan Assn ................................................:••

1,211.28
800.00

Total building and loan certificates ............................$ 2,772.11

Insurance Policies-Donated
Acadia Life Insurance Co., $1,000.00 less $118.90 loan ...................... $
881.10
Al Malaikah Auditorium Co................................................................... ~. · 100.00
Balder Relief Association ...••...:.................................................................
225.00
Conservative Life Insurance Co........................................................."..•.
77.00
Equitable Fraternal Union ................................................... :....................
1,073.25
Hercules Life Insurance Co. of Chicago .............:...............................: 1,000.00
Low Twelve Club of Pasadena ............. ;................................................. .
1.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co .............................................................
238.00
237.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co ........ ·-··················································
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
$5,000.00 less $1,675.00 loan... _: ..,............'.......................... ~.................. 3,325.00
New York Life Insurance Co., $1,000.00 less $612.00 loan ............... .
388.00
New York Life Insurance Co., $1,000.00 less $373.00 loan ............... .
627.00
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund ............................................................ ..
300.00
Presbyterian Ministers' Fund, principal sum uncertain
$3,107.00 loan ...................................................................... '. .................. . 3,500.00
Prudential Insurance Co. of America....................................................
1.00
Prudential Insurance Co. of America....................................................
135.00
Prudential Insurance Co. of America....................................................
1,000.00
Western States Life Insurance Co...............................,................. ~....... 1,000.00
Widows and Orphans Fund:
Aahmes Temple, 3 policies $1,500.00 each................................... . 4,500.00
Burlingame Lodge No. 400............................................................. ..
400.00
California Bodies Scottish Rite .................... ,...................................
1,000.00
Isfam Temple, 2 policies I,000.00 ~ach. ......................................... 2,000.00
Woodmen of the World-Benefit certificate ................:...................... . 3.,000.00
Additions 1939-40:
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance (Florence Henderson) ............. .
Prudential Insurance Co. of America (T. M. Anthony) ........... .
Prudential Insurance Co. of America (T. M. Anthony) .......:..

1,000.00
88.00
110.00

Total insurance policies.- .............................. .'..............$ 26,206.35
NoTE: All insurance policies are ou deposit at the office of the Grand
Secretary. Policies are entered on the General Fund books at face value,

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

except in certain cases where value is not determined. Entry is then made
at a nominal value of $1.00.

67

Schedule B-3
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP

Noles and Contracts Receivable
(Arising from donated notes and sales of donated property)
Andrus, John R. and Jean K ...................................................................$
Anthony, J. B ........................................................:......................................
Bergstrom, Alfred T. and Minnie............................................................
Calvary Baptist Church, Wayburn, Saskatchewan, Canada,
guaranteed by second mortgage............- .............:............................
Curtis, A. B .......................................,..................:........................................
Dias ..............................................................................................................
Emery, George L. and Mattie..................................................................
Fleegler, Emile ..........................................................................................
Gordon, Archie and Josephiqe................................................................
Groo, David E. and M. Frances..............................................................
Hague, Ale and Lillian...............:............:....................,............................
Herrick, Kennan C. and Virginia B .......................................:...............
Harrison, H. S.........,....•............•.:.......................................:......................
Hoag, Geo. H. and Esther A ......:,...........................................................
Hubbard, Thomas I. and wife..........................................:.......................
Kamps, L. M. and Wilma._.....................................................................
Leask, Samuel ............................................................................................
Lerza, ·Manfield and Lucy....................................................................... .
Taylor, Theo. B. and Launena...........................:.......................,............
Vetter, Arthur H. and A. M.:........................... _ ........· ········-····.........

FUND FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

968.71
1,888.98
1,100.00
1,050.00
25.00
220.05
667.62
88.00
1,280.89
1,000.00
1,145.00
1,939.19
309.54
2,895.11
16.00
447.91
675.00
1,310.00
2,947.92
2,673.65

~~~~ce, August 1, 1939............................~...............................................$ 47,710.19
~ncome received-dividends and interest..............$ 1,571.92
oans returned ..........................................................
482.50

2,054.42

Total..................................:...............'........t ......................... ..........$ 49,764.61
Deduct:
Distributed for educational purposes...............;......$
Loss on securities redeemed and sold....................

1,510.87
1,226.10

2,736.97

Balance, July 31, 1940......................~.........................................................$ 47,027.64
Composition of Fund
Due from Homes General Fund..............................................................$ 28,027.64
Securities:
$5,0?0 Blue Diamond Company,
Firhst morptga.g e bonds, 6% 1942............................$ 5,000.00
527 s ares ac1fic Gas & Electric Company
6% preferred stock........................................'.......... 14,000.00

19,000.00

Balance, July 31, 1940 (as above) ............................................................$ 47,027.64
Acquired 1939-40
Barley, Webster and Ann (Anthony property) ..,................................

1,005.08

Total notes and contracts................,................;....................

23,653.95

. Total Securities, Insurance Policies, Notes and Contracts ..............$ 63,296.49

Schedule B-4
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF "c. N. FLINT TRUST FUND"
.
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940
Balance, August 1, 1939..............................................................................$ 75,172.76
Add:

Inco.~e received-dividends and interest... ...........$ 2,846.59
Additional gift-bonds and ~ash............................ 29,677.46

Schedule B-2
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF ENTERTAIN ME NT FUND

$107,696.81

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

Balance, August 1, 1939 (Overdrawn-due General Fund) .......,....$
Add, disbursements during the year :
Decoto Christmas .......................;..............................$ 2,572.50
Decoto for .entertainment..........................................
504.44
Covina for entertainment............................................ 5,077.70

32,524.05

3,098.13

8,154.64

Deduct:
Expense of Treasure Island trip for Decoto
residents .......- ...........................................................$
Expense of property......~ ...........................................

838.19

Balance, July 3i, 1940................................................................................$106,858.62

Total....,~ .............................................:............................:...........$ 11,252.77
Deduct, receipts during the year..............................................................
6,961.11
Balance, July 31, 1940 (Overdrawn-due General Fund) ................$ 4,291.66

381.25
456.94

Securities

Compositioii of F1md

Bonds

$ 2,000 Baxter Creek. Irrigatio? District... ................................... D•$
130.00
10,000 Cleveland Unmn Terminal 1st mtg. 4~% 1977.. ~............. 10,287.50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

68

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

8,000
2,000
1,000
4,000
1,000
3,000
4,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
10,000
10,000
20,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
2,000

8,980.00
Consol. F..:d. Farm Loan (Land banks) 4% 1946.......... D
2,153.96
Consol. Fed. Farm Loan (Land banks) 3%% 1955........D
973.44
Covina, City of, sewer, 2%% 1950......................................D
Grant Union High School District 2% 1954........................ 3,546.32
854.58
Lincoln Joint Stock Land Bank 5% 1951 ........................ D
3,478.00
Los Angeles County Drainage, 6% 1944-7-8.................... D
Los Angeles County Flood Control, 5% 1947-8............ D 4,629.44
1,091.04
Los Angeles County Sanitation District 50% 1943...... D
1,145.31
Los Angeles County Sanitation District 5%% 1950...... D
1,093.33
Los Angeles, City o~ power plant, 4o/o 1956.................... D
1,017.33
Los Angeles, City of, improvements, 6% 1944................ D
Los Angeles, City of, water works, 40o/o 1962.................. 12,338.95
1,650.00
Los. Angeles Mountain Park Co., 1939 (defaulted) .... D*
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., first and refunding
mortgage, 3%%, 2003............................................................ 18,700.00
1,207.50
Modesto Irrigation District, 6% 1950................................ D
1,065.31
Pierce Joint Union High School District, 4%% 1946.... D
1,030.31
San Diego County Special Dist. refunding 2%% 1946.. D
Tule Irrigation District...................................................... D*
130.00

Stocks
6,000.00
100 shares Security First National Bank of Los Angeles............D
500 shar.es Transamerica. Corporation............................................ D l
100 shares Bank of America, N. T. & S. A ......................:....... ~..... D ~ 13,000.00
20 shares Bancamerica-Blair Coip........................._..............- ........ D• J

Total securities....;.......................,.....•,.... ~·-·•····-·········-·-'·"···· ..$ 94,502.32
Improved Real Estate-Los Angeles (assessed value) .................... 12,300.00 .
Cash-Anglo California National Bank................................................
894.49

69

Compositio11 of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ...•..........:....- ........,...:...........$
Securities
Bonds
$22,000 Electric Auto-Lite Company,
Debent1;1re, 4_% 1952..........•..............,............$ 24,399.80
1,000 Grant Union High School District, 2% 1955
880.13.
20,000 Great Northern Railway Company,
General Mortgage, 40% 1977.................... 2115440
20,000 Great Northern Railway Company,
'
·
General Mortgage, 4% 1946........................ 24 554 80
1,000. Los Angeles, City of, water works
'
·
4%% 1960 .......................................:..
116918 .
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, water works, ··············
'
·

40% 1961 ·······················································•

6,129.38

417.01

78,287.69

1

·······················;.:....._ .•,.......•....'...............;............~$ 78,704.70
Deduct, du~o~~~-;~;· -:·F-·u
nd............................................................,...........
1,250.00
Balance, July 31, 1940 (as above) ......................- ..-~ ...................;...........$ 77,454.70
Schedule B-6
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF "c. N, FLINT ANNUITY 'MORGAN' FUND"
. FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

!~lance'. ~ugust 1, 1?39...,......,..........:......................-.....,.:••'"I· .....,.....;.•,...$ 26,345.59
d: D1v1dends and interest received.~ ......................................:...........

767.88

TotaL.,.............."····:......................:....................,.:....................... 27,113.47
Deduct: Due General Fund.....•.,..............................................................

$107,696.81
838.19

Balance, July 31, 1940 (as above) ........'................................................•.$106,858.62

Deduct: Payments on contract............!..........

. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . , • • • • • • • • u

·

. . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . .

480.00

Balance, July 31, 1940........, ...................................................,:......:......:.....$ 26,633.47

Total:.....,.......................~···················-····-·····················-·······'.. 78,454.70
Deduct, payments on contract..................................................................
1,000.00

Com position of F1md
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ..............~...............................$
143.18
Securities
Bonds
$3,000 Beverly Hill~, Cit~ of, water, 4%% 1960........$
3,689.70
5,000 Glendale Union High School District
5% 1965-6 .
'
6,697.41
4,000 Grant Union i.Ji~·h·S~h~~-j"l:)"i·~·t;l~t...................
2% 1954-5
'
2,000 Pasadena, Cit;··~r:··s·~·~··G·~i;;·i·~·i··;;;~1~;············· 3,539.87
5% 1960 .........,.....................................'............. 2,603.31
Stocks
253 units Security Company................................
7,590.00
60 shares Security-First National Bank
.......:····
o.f Los Angeles...,•............,,........... :......................... 2,850.00
26,970.29

Balance, July 31, 1940......:....................................................._.~.,._-...,..$ 77,454.70

Ded

NoTEs: D-Securities received by gift; other securities were purchased
from fund.
*-Securities not paying interest or dividends.
Schedule B-5
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF "c. N. FLINT ANNUITY FUND"
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940
Balance, Aul!'ust 1, 1939...................................................................:........$ 75,717.12
Add: Dividends and interest received....................................................

2,737.58

.................................
:.........:.1.-.....,.....................................
• 27' 113.47
t duTotat.,,.
G
Ip· d
e enera un ..............:.,.................. _...,........., •.............,.......
480.00
uc ,

Balance, July 31, 1940 (as above) ............',..1, •••.•••••,................................$ 26,633.47

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Schedule B-7

Residents' Deposits:
Cash on deposit by residents at Decoto (With F. B. Hartman, as trustee $1,177.51; balance in Homes general fund ) .. $ 5,931.60

SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF "GEORGE AND HARRIET WADLEIGH
ANNUITY FUND" F OR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

Balance, August 1_, 1939..............:....................................:.......'········-·····-$ 22,!~~-~~
Add: Interest received .........................................................,......................
·
Total.......- ....................~---·-··········-············································$ 23,~~~-~~
Deduct: Payments on contract........................................................·-·····
1. ·
Balance, July 31, 1940...............................---·-·······-·····:...........................,$ 21,646.23
·
'Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ..........,.:.........•...•......- ...,.........$

519.33

Securities

71

Charles L . Patton Reserve Fund:
$40,000.00 was received October 11, 1938 and deposited in
the general fund. As excess cash becomes available a special fund will be built up to this amount. The fund is to be.
used for special emergency expenses only............ ~ ..............:..·:.$ 40,000.00
Special Entertairiment Fund for Decoto Residents :
This fund was created from personal deposits of deceased
residents of Decoto
and is deposited in the general fund ....$ 4,076.88
..
Exhibit C
STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE FOR THE

Bonds
$8.000

FISCAL YEAR E NDED JULY 31,

East Bay Municipal Utility District,
5% 1971-4-6.................................................:....$ 11,887.04
1,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water,
4~o/o 1970..........................................................
1,384.18
5,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water,
40% 1973........:................................................. 6,828.07
2,000 San Francisco, City and County of,
Retch Hetchy, 40% 1973............................
2,652.61

22,751.90

Total...................:.............................'. ......................•~················-$ 23,27~-~3
Deduct, due G~neral Fund............:...........................................................
1,62 · 0
Balance, July 31 , 1940 (as above) ........................................- ..., ................$ 21,646.23
Schedule B-8
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF SUNDRY FUNDS HELD
AS OF JULY 31, 1940

1940

Revenue
1939 annual returns :
Homes maintenance dues .................. $ 48,900.00
Homes building fund dues................ 61,125.00
$25.00 Homes tax................................ 86,650.00 $196,675.00

:

Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund: , .
Balan~e, August l ,_ 1939 (cash) .................................. - ....................$ 3 o,~~0: 00
Add, interest received ....:...................................................................

7 13

----

Total............................................................................................ 30,357.13
Deduct, payments on contract........................................................
1,500.00

----

Balance, Jul_y 31, 1940 (Anglo California National
.
28 857.13
Bank, savtngs account) ........................................................- ................$ •
Gloria Benjamin Trust Fund:
Balance, August 1, 1939 (cash) .......................................:................$ 1,623.93
Add, interest teceived........................................................................
32.63
Total- ..........................................................................................
Deduct, amount sent to Covina to be paid in monthly
installments to Miss Benjamin as needed ..................................

1,656.56
600.00

Balance, July 31, 1940 (The San Francisco Bank,
savings account) ............................................................,........................$ 1,056.56

Endowment Fund income:
Regular fund ......................................:$ 36,051.72
Luckenbach fund ................................ 2,407.27
. ~t
General maintemt~~e-from subsidiary accounts
(cash, and income from, and proceeds from sales
of, General Fun.Ci" securities and real estate, less
expenses of $11,423.20) ..................................................
Outside relief, not eligible for Homes relief, reimbursed by Grand Lodge................................................
Excess quota from L odges................................................
State aid for Covina.................................................:..........
Sale of cows-Covina...........:......................$ 1,158.59
Less, received in 1938-39....................
228.35

Gas refund, 1933-3~Decoto ........................................... .
Interest on San Dimas Water Co., note ........................
Funeral expense reimbursementsexcess over ~isburse!llents............................................

38,458.99

18,639.12
5,650.00
8,764.26
5,812.84
930.24
162.36
123.84
273.81

Total revenue ............................................................................$275,490.46
·•
Expense
Operation of H omes (Direct) :
Excess operating expense over
sundry direct revenue:
Decoto (Exhibit D) ........................$135,012.78
Covina (Exhibit E) ........................ 93,419.94 $228,432.74

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

72

Outside Relief and Care:
Outside relief ...................................... 23,615.00
Outside care of children-Covina.... 2,227.88

GRAND LODGE .OF CALIFORNIA

73

Excess of Operating Expenses over Sunctry Direct Revenue ........ $135,012.78
•NOTE: Total operating expense includes :
(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit A ...................... $135,369.88
Plus non-cash items:
(b) Farm produce consumed....................................
4,624.03
(c) Reduction in inventory of stores........................
41.75

25,842.88

Administrative and general expense:
Taxes ....................................................
Insurance ·············-·······························
Field investigation expense :
Northern district ........................... .
Southern district ........................... .
Secretary's and assistant secretary's
salaries ······························-··············
Trustees expense ·············----··--····--···-·
Audi ting ----··--·······---·-····-··-·---·-·-·-·-········
Safekeeping of securities .................. ..
Refund to Pajaro Lodge No. 110....
Miscellaneous ·---·--···-----····-·--··-··-···---···

Total, as above ..............................................$140,035.66

3,288.76
5,059.59

Exhibit E
2,206.35
2,747.16
1,800.00
469.31
550.00
250.00
50.00
405.44

STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-COVINA
LESS SUNDRY DIRECT REVENUE RECEIVED
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940
*Operating Expense:
Main_te.nanc~ (care of children) ................................$ 83,221.79
Admm1strative expense ···············-··-·-····-···---------······ 10,145.50
Farm expense .................................................... . ........
3,565.53

16,826.61

Total expense... ·-·---······-·-··--············--················--·······-----·-----$271, l 02.21
Excess of Revenue over EJC:pet_J;&e..................., •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• :••••••..•$ 4,388.25

Exhibit D
STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-DECOTO
LESS SUNDRY DIRECT REVENUE RECEIVED
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

Deduct:
Sundry Direct Revenue:
Farm produce consumed ......................................
Farm produce sold outside...............................•....
Meals sold to visitors ........, .....................................
Discount on purchases ..........................................

*NOTE: Total operating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit A.................... ,.$ 92,180.25
Plus non-cash items:
(b) Farm produce consumed ...............................~ ... .
881.85
(c) Discount on purchases .................:......................
762.04
(d) Water charges applied on note ..........................
2,032.20
(e) Dairy products in exchange for cows ................
930.24
(f) Reduction in inventory of stores ......................
146.24

50,076.29

(Reference: See Schedule D-1
for detailed accounts in
support thereof)

Total, as above ...............•............................$ 96,932.82

TotaL~---····'····-·--·-···--·-··············-······················--·--···············-····.··$140,035.66

Schedule D-1
DISTRIDU'.l"ION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL
AT DECOTO
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed ........................................$ 4,624.03
12.95
Farm produce sold outside ................•...................
39.00
Salvage sales ............................................................
334.11
Farm rent ................................................................
12.79
Sundry ......................................................................

881.85
1,561.29
307.70
762.04

Tot;;P.t................,............................\............................................,..$ 3,512.88
Excess of Operating Expense over Sundry Direct Revenue ............ $ 93,419.94

*Operating Expense:
Maintenance ·······-·····-~·-·······'·~" ...:_•......................• --$ 70,551.81
Hospital ······-·-··-············'······-···············-········-···-··--······· 11,393.43
Farm ..............................................................................
4,066.98
Laundry ........................................................•...............
3,947.15
General and administrative:
Salaries and wages .......................... $ 20,400.03
Expense ..................................... ~ ...... · 29,676.26

(Reference: See Schedule E-1 for detailed
accounts in support thereof)
Total. •..••...•............. ~ ...............................•................~ ...................$ 96,932.82

Maintenance Expense

5,022.88

Food:
Groceries ............., ..- ............................$ 8,997.61
Meat ......................................................
6,910.93
Fish ........................................................
641.54

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

74

75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Provisions, including cured meats ..
Fruit and vegetables -------------------------·
Butter, milk and eggs ____ ;...................
Bakers' supplies ·-------········------··········

Replacements:
Furniture and fixtures ....................... .
Safety bolts ·-·········-···-·······--···-·····-·····-Sewerage system ..... ·-······-··-··--··----·····-·

3,134.24
6,797.90
13,891.57
3,398.85 $ 43,772.64

1,547.25
3,025.91
6,080.91

10,654.07

TotaL...............•.......................................................•...... :.. :..,•.'·-·
Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries and wages-------------···-······-···--·
Operating expense.·-------·-····--··-··---··-··

Total Operating Expenses-Decoto ......................................................$140,035.66
11,548.72
10,372.23

NOTE:

21,920.95

The abo_ve stat~I?1ent includes farm products consumed and stores
used m add1t1on to cash expenditures.
Schedule E-1

Clothing and sundry:
Dental ······-··-···-······-·--···--·-·--·--·---··--"'····Clothing ·---·--•--···---·---·-··-·-·-------··-·-·-··--·Shoes ··--·--·-·-------~---------------··--···------·-·-··
Bedding -·---·--·--··-------------·-·-·--------··--··--·

50,076.29

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL

1,668.58
1,038.39
350.54
1,800.71

AT COVINA
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

4,858.22

Care of Children

Total-----'-'-----·--·-···-------············-··-·················-················-········--'···$ 70,5 51.81
Hospital E.-rpense
Salaries and wages.·-······-----······-············-··-·····--··-----··---·····M iscellaneous expense -·-·----···-····-r----···---·--··--······-·--·----·

10,199.26 .
l,194.17

TotaL·-···-··-···-···--···--··-·--··--··---··-·-----·--·-··-·--·····:..... ""•.....-...........
Farm Expense
Salaries and wages .......-------··--·---···-····--···················'··-·······
Tools and equipment.. ·--····-·-·-··-······--·-···-·---·--------·-·---·-·-··Seeds -------···-----·-------·---·······-·---··-···-·-----------·-·--·--···---·--·······---·
Feed -···--·----·····--····--······-··-····------·--·--··----··-·--·---·····-·-··----···--·
Miscellaneous expense ..........·-·-·-···········-·········----·-····-···-····

1,110.00
"44.66
54.29
2,255.44
I 602.59

Total.. .............................. ,., ..........•........................... :..........•.......
Laundry Expense
Salaries and wages·-······-·---··-·-···-·····---····-···--··········-·-·····-···
Misce11aneous expense····----··-····-·-···-·-·-··---·-·-·····-·············

Other expense:
Light, heat, power and water ............$ 10,646.14
Plant repairs and maintenance ....... . 3,066.00
444.30
Freight and express .. ·------····---··--··-··--205.82
Office printing ·-····---·-···--··-···--·----····-·
707.95
Telephone and telegraph ....................
120.51
Headstones ·-··-··--·-···-·---···--·-··-·-···--··-··
Misce11aneous expense..·-·-----·----·'·-·-··· 3,831.47

4,066.98

2,948.25
998.90

Total.. .......... ·---··-··-···-·······-······'·--···-·····-·--: .........•.....,..., ..... ,.........
General Expense
Salaries and wages ... ---·--·--···-···-········---·············-········-··-·-···

11,393.43

20,400.03

19,022.19

3,947.15

Food:
Meats .. :.......... :........ ·-----·-·····--·············--$
Fresh fruits and vegetables •.............
Canned goods -···-·--························--·-··
Butter, milk and eggs ........................
Bakery supplies ·············--····----······--···
Cereals ················-···-···········-······-·----·····
Other groceries ·····-······--·········---·-···--·
Outside meals ···--······----·-···-·-·-·-···········

5,192.42
2,883.23
2,772.31
5,625.06
1,763.95
239.18
2,430.65
4,872.49 $ 25,779.29

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries and wages·--··--·----···-··············
Supplies and replacements ................

5,944.08
1,082.20

7,026.28

Clothing:
Ready to wear ... ·-·······-······-···---··-·-···-···
Cleaning and repairs ......................... .
Dry goods and notions ..................... .

3,090.74
843.58
333.05

4.267.37

Laundry:
Salaries and wages ........... ·-··--·-······--···
Supplies and repairs ......................... .

1,869.86
861.31

2,731.17

Dormitories:
Salaries and wages ..............................
Supplies and. repairs .......... ,.................

10,204.12
2,158.72

12,362.84

Hospital:
Doctors' and dentists' fees ................
Salaries and wages ............................. .
Medical supplies and drugs ..............
Other supplies and expens.e ............. .
Outside hospital, x-rays, glasses, etc .. .

2,183.75
2,142.31
2,653.19
474.80
994.39

8,448.44

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General Expense:
School supplies ....................................
Tonsorial service ................•...............
Miscellaneous ·····················-···············
Domestic Science Cottage................
Automobile expense ..........................

258.46
182.02
2,808.61
615.14
994.80

Pigs :
Feed ......................................................
Supplies and expense ..........................
4,859.03

General farm expense:
Horse feed ........................................... .
Miscellaneous expense......................,.

Power house:
Salaries and wages ..........................
Fuel oil, waste and lubrications ..
Repairs ............................................. .

2,552.68
1,169.67
1,304.91

5,027.26

Repairs to buildings:
Salaries and wages ..........................
Supplies ............................................

1,653.91
906.24

2,560.15

Care of grounds:
Salaries and wages ..........................
Supplies and expense ..................... .

1,875.89
433.53

2,309.42

General expense:
Gas, water and light........................
Automobile expense ......................
Miscellaneous expense ..................

5,683.30
322.52
1,844.72

154.60
195.87

350.47

Sheep :
Supplies and expense ..........................

General house and property expense:

2.55

8.58
751.71

760.29

Total farm expense ..................................................................

3,565.53

Total Operating Expenses-Covina......................................................$ 96,932.82
N OTE :

7,850.54

7,356.56
440.67
446.50
487.53
41.75
357.10
607.59
144.00
263.80

Total administrative expense................................................
Farm E%pense
Orchard:
Salaries and wages ...,..........................$
Supplies and equipment ....•...............
Tractor fuel ......................................... .

548.75
637.90
106.20

1,292.85

Poultry:
Salaries and wages .... :.... _...........,.......
Feed ..............:.~ ................................... ..

59.01
1,100.36

1,159.37

The above statement includes farm products consumed and stores
used in addition to cash expenditures.

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home

Total care of children ...................................................... - ......$ 83,221.79
Administrative E%pense
Salaries-superintendent and office......................•..........
Stationery and printing.................•~·································
Postage ............................................................................... .
Telephone and telegraph ....................................................
Traveling expense ..............................................................
Automobile expense ......................................................... .
Miscellaneous expense ......................................................
Freight and express..................;.......""·······•··················- ····
Office equipment ................................................................

77

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

10,145.50

To the Board of Trustees :
In presenting my thirty-first annual report as Superintendent of the
Decoto Home, I am pleased to say that conditions in general are very good,
and with few exceptions the morale of the Home has been satisfactory
during the year.
It has been our endeavor to operate the several departments as economically and efficiently as possible, and to provide every possible care for
the well-being of the members of our family, and to have the buildings and
grounds present a neat and attractive appearance.
In the operation of the several departments of the Home, there are
many phases to be taken into consideration; the most important among
them being the comfort of those who are entrusted to our care.
yve have endeavored to .maintain a social atmosphere in keeping with
the ideals of our Fraternity and bring as large a measure of contentment
as possible into the daily life of all who are enjoying the many benefits
of the Home.
At the beginning of the fi scal year, there were enrolled 348 ; 200 men,
148 women. There were admitted from September 1, 1939, to August 31,
1940, 18 men and 14 women, making a total of 380. Passed away during the
year, 34 men and 18 women. Voluntary departures, 4. There are now 324
residents at the Home. There are 23 married couples. The average age of
the residents of the Home is 75 years for men and 73 years for women.
The general health of the Home has been good with the exception of
those who are infirm and feeble, owing to advancing years. There are now
42 of our members being cared for in our hospital department, where they
are receiving every care and comfort our physician and nurses are able to
give them. The members requiring hospital care are gradually increasing.
Additional room, when needed, can be provided by the completion of the
interior of the second floor of the two wings of the hospital building.
I am pleased to report that many of our men who are physically able,
assist in many light duties in the several departments of the Home, which

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

are of material benefit. Many of the women residents assist in the dining
room, sewing and linen rooms, reception rooms, library, office work, etc. A
number of the men residents render service in th_e kitchen, pantry, grounds,
carpenter and paint shops, store room, engine room, garage, mail, express,
and passenger service, and many other duties in a general way.
As heretofore, the greater part of the hill ranch has been leased on
shares or cash rental. The farm has supplied plenty of fruit for table use.
The returns from the hay crop have been fair. The garden has supplied
vegetables, berries, and plenty of greens. The chicken ranch has supplied
eggs for table use.
It was necessary to overhaul and repair our deep well pump. Part of
the casing was renewed. The cylinder had to be rebored. The pump was
put in serviceable condition. Our three reservoirs, with a capacity of 500,000
gallons, are at all times nearly full, which furnishes a plentiful supply for
household, garden, irrigating and fire protection.
All holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. The specials are those which were held on New Year's Eve, New Year's Day, Lincoln's and Washington's Birthday, Easter, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Thanksgiving, and Christmas.
Many splendid programs, stage plays, band and orchestra concerts
have been provided during the year by visiting Lodges, Eastern Star Chapters, and friends, for the entertainment of the members of the Home; the
evening often closing with dancing. From time to time, entertainments are
prepared entirely by members of the Home, consisting of vocal and instrumental music, community singing, cards, games, · dancing, etc. Tuesday
evenings are devoted t<;> cards, and Friday evenings to chorus practice. A
religious service is held in the Assembly Hall every Sunday afternoon and
Sunday . evening. The Association of Ministers of Washington township
' have arranged to send one of their members to conduct our services. They
are often accompanied by their church choirs. Our Home choir often furnish the music for these services.
The entertainment fund, comprising gifts and donations by Lodges and
individuals, enables the management to provide various forms of entertainment for the enjoyment of the members of our family. Vocal and instrumental concerts, lectures, picnics, birthday parties, have added much to the
comfort and pleasure of all, in the social life of the Home.
Moving picture programs are presented every Thursday evening. These
films are furnished by the San Francisco Film Distributing Companies,
without charge, for which we tender our heart-felt thanks and appreciation.
During the past year, the following repairs and improvements have
been made. N early all of the outside door and window frames, and a large
number of rooms and halls in the several buildings have been painted.
A retaining wall of rock has been built in the rear of the East wing
building, the Hospital, Kitchen, Dormitory and Temple buildings. The
entire length of the wall is about 1705 feet. The average height is about
four feet. This rock was salvaged from the foundation of the old buildings
which were removed to furnish the site of the present Administration building. Climbing roses, vines and shrubs have been planted along the entire
length of the rock walls. Many small garden spots around -the buildings
are beautified and made attractive by the planting of shrubs, flowers, building walks and concrete curbing. The care and work performed is entirely
done by the members of the Home.
The new sewer system of the Decoto Sanitary District of Alameda
County was completed the early part of this year. We have discontinued the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

79

use of our septiC tanks, and connected the Home sewage with the main
sewer system of Decoto. It was necessary to abandon the old sewer line
from the building to the septie tank, and a new line of sewer pipe was laid
from the old connections to the new line of pipe and connections made
with the main line of the Decoto highway, at a point in front of the Home
property. The new sewer system has been of great benefit to this community; the service has been very satisfactory. In opening the line for the
new pipe, a large part of the new macadamized road laid down last year was
damaged, and for a time the road was impassable. The roads have been
repaired, and are again in good condition.
Many donations of books have been received and placed on the shelves
of our main library and branches, located in the several departments of
the Home. The Masonic Hill branch of the Alameda County Free Library
enables our family to obtain many of the latest books, and an opportunity
for special ones.
In addition, we are the recipients, through friends and members of the
Fraternity, of daily papers, magazines and periodicals, which are placed on
the tables of the library, club rooms, and social halls, where the members of
the Home can enjoy them.
Arrangements have been made whereby members of the family,· a few
at a time, can keep dental, optical and hospital appointments, and to enjoy
an outing to nearby places of interest. Also, an occasional visit to nearby
Lodges and Eastern Star Chapters. During the year, weekly trips are made
to San Francisco, Oakland, and towns in the vicinity of the Home.
Last year, the Home Trustees made it possible for members of the
Home to visit the <;;olden Gate International Exposition on Treasure
Island. One hundred and eighty-five residents of the Home enjoyed their
visit there.
This year, similar arrangements were made, and all who were able
and cared to go, had the opportunity to do so.
From time to time, officers and members of Lodges from San Francisco and East Bay cities, visit the Home for the purpose of conferring
degrees on their candidates. On these occasions the brethren of the Home
have the opportunity of being present at the meeting in our Temple. Many
of the brethren of the Home are unable to visit their own Lodges, and all
greatly appreciate the opportunity given them to meet with the officers and
members of visiting Lodges.
We have been favored during the year by visits of officers of the Grand
Lodge, members of the Board of Trustees, and members of various Lodges,
and friends of the Home.
The Matron joins me in expressing our appreciation of the efficient
and conscientious work on the part of the officers and employees, whose
earnest efforts have been a factor in maintaining a high standard of service
throughout the several departments of the Home, and to thank the Board
of Trustees for their kindly assistance, and for the many acts of courtesy
received.
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.

Visitations to Decoto Home
September 22, 1939-Berkeley Lodge No. 363, Berkeley, second degree
in Temple.
October 1, 1939--Rev. W . A. Pankey, Hayward. Communion service.

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

October 4, 1939-Alameda Little Theater. Stage play, "The Late
Christopher Bean."
October 8 1939-Scottish Rite Orchestra. Concert.
October lS, 1939-Rev. w. A. Pankey, Hayward. Special music, church
choir.
·
d
·
October 21, 1939-Diamond Lodge No. 603. Entertainment, ancmg,
lii;rht refreshments .
. October 25, 1939-Pacific Gas & Electric Company. Three-act play,
"The Three Cornered Man."
0 t b 29 1939-Aahmes Temple Band and Chanters. Band concert.
c o er ,
V 11
.
1
"B f
October 31, 1939-Moving pictures, Death a ey m co ors,
e ore
the White Man Came."
November 12, 1939-Golden Chain Chapter No. 303, 0. E. S., annual
visit.
·
· A
· November 19, 1939-Minister and Choi'_' of the Twenty-third venue
Baotist Church, Oakland. Thanksgiving music and sermo~ ..
November 26, 1939-Fruitvale Christian Church. Mm1ster, and music
by the church choir.
.
December 3, 1939-Christian Endeavor Soc1~ty, Decoto. Mr. Ray
Alcorn, speaker.
December 4, 1939--Sunlight Bakery, Oakland. Moving pictures, "Give
Us This Day Our Daily Bread."
.
.
December 14 1939-Musical concert. Piano, harmomca, accordion.
December 17: 1939-Rev. w. A. Pankey, ~irst Presbyterian Church,
Hayward. The Christmas Message. Church cho:r. . .
. .
December 25, 1939-Christmas carols in mam dmmg room. Distribution of presents.
December 31, 1939-New Year's Eve program by members of the
Home. Dancing.
.
.
January 1; 1940·- Miscellaneous entertainment, toe dancmg, acrobatic
·performance. Piano numbers.
.
January 71 1940-Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto. Sunday service,
.
special music.
January 14, 1940-Hcrmann Lodge No. 127, San Franc1seo. Annual
visit to the Home. Refreshments. .
.
.
January 14, 1940-San Francisco Assembly,. Order of Rainbow for Girls.
Musical and literary program.
rs Vaudeville program.
January 23, 1940-Van Ike GIoom Chase ·
Orchestra.
.
February 41 1940-Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto. Sun.day serv1c~si
February 18, 1940-Rev. Elston Campbell, Oakland. Services. Spec1a
music.
February 22, 1940--Washington's and Lincoln's Birthday program.
Motion pictures.
February 25, 1940-Rev. A. A. Pankey, ~irst Presbyterian Church,
Hayward. Services, special music by church choir.,
.
March 3, 1940-Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto. Sund~y services.
M arch 15 1940-Charity Lodge No. 362, and Campbell High School.
'
Stage play, "The
Teapot on the Roek s."
. .
March 17, 1940.-Palm Sunday. Rev. R O. W1lhams, Oakland. Sunday services, special music.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

81

March 17, 1940-Las Palmas Lodge No. 366. Officers and members on
annual visit to the Home.
March 24, 1940-Rev. W. P. Hackett, Hayward. Easter services and
chorus of Christian church.
March 31, 1940-Dorothy Even Studio, Oakland. Piano recital. Program by pupils.
April 5, 1940-Decoto Grammar School. Miscellaneous entertainment.
April 12, 1940-Durant Lodge No. 268. Degree work in the Temple.
Entertainment for ladies in Assembly hall.
April 14, 1940-Rev. W. A. Pankey, Hayward. First Presbyterian
Church. Services, attd music by the ch'u rch choir.
April 17, 1940-Alameda Chapter No. 210, Order of DeMolay. Second
degree in the Temple.
·
·
April 20, 1940-Brother L. W. Musick, Decoto. Moving pictures.
April 21, 1940-Tehama Lodge No. 3, and Job's Doughters, Bethel No.
74. Entertainment in the Assembly hall.
April 27, 1940-Naval Lodge No. 87, Vallejo. High School orchestra.
Miscellaneous entertainment. Refreshments.
May 1, 1940-Evening High School Orchestra, Centerville. Stage play,
"Simple Simon Simple."
May 5, 1940-Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto. Religious service,
music.
May 11, 1940-San Jose Order of Sciots. Entertainment and dance.
May 12, 1940-San Francisco Order of DeMolay and San Francisco
Order of Rainbow for Girls. Joint Mother's Day ceremony.
May 19, 1940-San Mateo Pyramid of Sciots No. 25, A. E. 0. Entertainment. Special music.
May 19, 1940-Parnassus Chapter, 0. E. S., San Francisco. Annual
visit to the Home. Refreshments.
May 20, 1940-Hayward and Niles Rotary clubs, joint meeting. Entertainment. Refreshments.
May 26, 1940-Bethel No. 9, Job's Daughters. Sunday service.
May 30, 1940-Memorial Day exercises. Annual visit to the Home
cemetery.
May 31, 1940-San Jose Order of DeMolay. Entertainment.
June 2, 1940-Decoto Christian Endeavor Society. Sunday service.
Special music.
June 6, 1940-Hayward Dorcas Society. Entertainment. Moving pic·
tures.
June 8, 1940-Alameda Masonic Officers' Club. Oak Grove Lodge No.
215, Woodstock Lodge No. 491, and Apollo Lodge No. 396.
June 15, 1940-Doric Lodge No. 216. Third degree in Temple.
June 16, 1940-Rev. W . A. Pankey, Minister, First Presbyterian
Church, Hayward. Sunday services.
June 16, 1940-0ccidental Lodge No. 22. Visitation of officers, members and their families.
·
June 19, 1940-Lee Grabel. Magician.
June 22, 1940-Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Entertainment.
July 4, 1940-Patriotic program. Moving pictures.
July 7, 1940-Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto. Sunday services.

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

July 28, 1940-Lutheran Youth Cpnference. Sunday services.
August 17, 1940--Annual visit of the East Bay Past Matrons' Association, accompanied by the Worthy Grand Matron, Worthy Grand Patron,
and many members of the Order of the Eastern Star.
August 18, 1940-Rev. W. A. Pankey, First Presbyterian Church, Hayward. Sunday services. Special music.
August 24, 1940-0akland Lodge No. 188. Vaudeville entertainment.
Donations to Decoto Home
East Bay Past Matrons' Association--3194 glasses of jam and jelly, 74
cakes, 1 sack of prunes, 104 hospital gowns, 73 table covers, 14 comforters,
31 nightgowns, 21 flannel gowns, 24 dresser scarfs.
Escalon Assembly, Order of Rairibow for Girls, Escalon-49 glasses of
jelly.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-1 keg of olives.
W. H. Blomquist, San Francisco--2 bundles of Readers Digest, and
National Geographic magazines.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-2 boxes of oranges.
H. Bercovich. Cigar Company, Oakland-2 boxes of candy, 100 cigars.
Frank Hullinger, Sequoia Lodge No. 349-0ne 5-passenger Buick automobile.
· Lindsey Lodge No. 306--12 boxes of oranges.
Mrs. M. E. Jensen, Oakland-2 boxes of apples.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, Fresno--4 cartons of magazines.
Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San Francisco--2 boxes · of men's and
women's clothing, women's shoes.
Pratt Mortuary, Hayward-·2 Poinsettia plants.
J. Wetzel, Oakland-1 bundle of mi'scellaneous magazines.
Lieut. Commander G. P. Smallman, U. S. Navy, _Los Gatos-10 pairs
slippers for men, 10 pairs of bed slippers for women, 4 boxes cigars, 1 carton
cigarettes, 4 cans tobacco, various copies of Life magazines, also Rotogravures.
.
Fred Allen, Fruitvale-9 bundles miscellaneous magazines.
San Jose Order of Rainbow for Girls, Assembly No. 5-360 boxes of
candy.
Signal Chapter No. 276, 0 . E. S.-1 year's subscription to American,
Collier's, Woman's Home Companion, an? McCall's magazines.
Mrs. Belle Enquist, Concord-26 men's shirts.
Mrs. C. Ploss, Berkeley-1 large U. S. b1:1nting flag.
Occidental Lodge No. 22, San Francisco--36 Readers Digest, 28 Unity,
35 Liberty magazines.
Mrs. Mary J. Mayfield, Richmond-6 puzzles.
Herman Crainer, Sonora-18 vols. books.
V. S. Jones, Oakland-Large bundle of miscellaneous magazines.
W. J. Clark, Berkeley-! large package men's clothing..,
Mrs. E. Hall, Oakland-Men :s clothing, shoes, and underwear.
G. A. Jones, Oakland-2 large bundles misceilan~us perioditals.
J. S. Barkheim, Oakland-1 cabinet radio an.d phonograph attachment.
F. E. Brenneman, Willows-4 boxes of magazines.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mr. and Mrs. Walt.er Flierl, Hayward-2 Easter lilies.
E. H. Ebert, Oakland-Large bundle of miscellaneous magazines.
Jack Von Staden, San Francisco-Miscellaneous magazines, periodicals.
5 vols. books.
Chris: W. Spiegil, San. Francisco--2 suits of men's clothing, 'large
bundle miscellaneous magazmes, and periodicals.
Miss Mary E . Heidt, Alameda-5. vols. "The Poetry of Freemasonry."·
Alice M. Brown, Tahoe Pines-Large bundle of magazines.
Mrs. B. D. Dolan, Exec. Estate Albert C. J . Muller Corte MaderaMen's clothing, hats, shoes, underwear, etc.
' ·
Dr. Frank E. Short, San Jose-'-29 copies of The National Geographic
magazine.
Mrs. R. H. Willoughby, Oakland-3 gold headed canes.
Mrs. George J. Dunn, Oakland-15 packages playing cards.
Lucy F. Lawrence and Rosamond L. Bays, Oakland-97 miscellaneous
books.
J. Pickering, San Francisco--1 large bundle miscellaneous magazines.
Rev. E. 0. Schugren, Oakland-6 vols: miscellaneous books.
Mrs. W. Marquardsen, Oakland-2 large packages miscellaneous
periodicals.
·
John W. Bassford, Los Gatos-46 boxes of pears.
Robert M. Ferguson, Oakland-1 bundle of magazines.
_Oak Grove, Apollo, Woodstock Lodges, Alameda-4 jars of jam, 1 box
of cigars, 5 plants, 15 pounds assorted candies.
Hayward and Niles Rotary Clubs-10 pounds coffee.
Occidental Lodge No. 22, San Francisco-Men's and women's clothing
hats, shoes, etc. 10 vols. fiction.
,
'
Alfred J. T. Bodeau, San Francisco--15 vols. miscellaneous books
fiction, etc.
·
'
Mrs. G. E. Kimball, San Francisco-4 large bundles of miscellaneous
magazines.
]. H. Wolford, East Bay Lodge No. 489, Berkeley-1 large cabinet
phonograph, 38 records, 1 package men's clothing.
Mrs. A. Diebold, Oakland-1 large package miscellaneous magazines.
Irving Sander, San Francisco--14 jig-saw puzzles. <
Elmhurst Chapter No. 455, 0. E. S., Oakland-170 glasses of jelly.
E. D. Clarke, San Francisco-35 records for player piano.
Mrs. H. J. Morley, Niles---Large bundle magazines.
Mrs. P. P. Brush, Oakland-1 large package of men's clothing, shoes,
etc.
East Bay Lodge No. 489, Berkeley-4 suits o£°men's clothing, shoes, etc.
0. B. Soderlund, San Francisco-1 large bundle miscellaneous magazines.
P . C. Hansen Company, Niles-1 large Christmas tree.
John Wiese, Jr., San Francisco--1 trunk of women's wearing apparel.
George H. Olanster, Sacramento-1 large bundle of periodicals.
Frank Caroli, San Francisco-.10 vols. miscellaneous books.
C. A. Walker, M. D., San Franeisco-20 copies of Masonic World.
Maud Timbrel, San Leandro-ts· vols. miscellaneous books.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDI:-IGS OF THE

84

George Hanford, Oakland-1 music-rack stand,
large q1.rton miscellaneous periodicals.
Charity Lodge No. 362, Campbell-100 cigars.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, Oroville-I firkin of ripe olives.
Gene Bros. & Lane Company, San Francisco-Several yards of buckram.
.
Coachella Lodge No. 476, Coachella-50 pounds dates.
Mrs. George P. Hellwig, Alvarado-I package of Good Housekeeping
magazines.
Mrs. W. T. Spridgen, Petaluma-Men's clothing, shoes, etc.
Miss May Cardwell, Petaluma-2 large rocking chairs.
E . C. Buchur, Oakland-26 vols. miscellaneous books.
Erma L. Boyce, sponsor for Lodi Matrons of Upper San Joaquin-29
dish towels.
Dr. O . S. Dean, Oakland-2 large cartons miscellaneous magazines.
C. W. Brooks, San Miguel-I large package periodicals.
Fred W. Alsing, Hermann Lodge No. I27, San Francisco-9 bundles
miscellaneous magazines. 9 vols. books.
.
Mr. and Mrs. I. D. Luscomb, Huntington Park-I package periodicals.
Russell Service, San Francisco-I hat, 2 pairs of shoes, 5 suits, 2 overcoats.
Sanger Lodge No. 316-I sack of walnuts.
Willard H . Young, San Leandro-28 copies National Geographic
magazine.

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home
Lodge

No.

Acorn ··'·- ·······················.494
A. F. E . lrwin................645
Alamo ........................ ,..... I22
Alameda ..........................167
Alcatraz ··········-··············244
Alexander Graham
Bell ···················- ······- ·595
Alexandria ......................531
Alisa! •.•.............................321
All States..........................593
Alpha ..............•.................431
Alturas ·-·························248
Amador ............................ 65
Amity ..........._....•.............370
Antioch ·············-········'"·.175
Apollo ............:.................396
Arcata ·······-········-···········106
Argonaut •.......................461
Argonne ............,.............514
Artesia ............................377
Ashlar ·····- ·······················306
Atascadero ......................493
Athens ··········-·············•·-·228

Amt.
$IO.OO
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge

No.

Azusa •····'·-•·······'···-····- 305
Bakersfield ................•.....224
Balder .......•..-...................393
Bay City ···-········:···';....... 526
Bear Mountain................ 76
Bell ····-~·-·'·····················-·483
Berkeley ...........•..............363
Blackmer ........................442
Brooklyn ........................225
Buckeye •....•..................- 195
Burlingame ....................400
Cahuenga .........•..............513
Calaveras ........................ 78
Caledonia ........................486
California ........................ I
Callayomi ........................282
Carmel ............................680
Carquinez ......................337
Charity ............................362
Charter Rock..................410
Chico ····- ··················'"·····lII
Clay •...-....•~······-··-·-········101
Clear Lake......................183

Amt.
5.00
20.00
I2.50
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.40
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00

lodge ,
No.
Coalinga ..........................387
Colusa ..........,...........,.......240
Compass ..........................590
Concord ..........................II7
Confidence ......................203
Coronado ......•.................441
Corinthian ...................... 9
Corona ............................324
Covelo ....,.........................231
Covenant ........................527
Crescent .......................... 45
Crockett .......................... 139
Culver City......................467
Cupertino ........................ 510
Curtis .............................. 140
Damascus ........................648
Delta ................................471
Dimond ............................603
Dinuba ............................385
Doric ··················~············216
Dos Palos •...............~.......681
Downey ...........................220
Dunsmuir ........................297
Durant ............................268
East Bay..........................489
East Belt..........................391
. East Gate ........................290
Eden ................................ 113
El Cajon Valley.............. 576
El Centro..........................384
El Dorado....•.....c••••••••••••• 26
El Segundo......................507
Elsinore ..........................289
Elysian ..........................'..418
Elmhurst ........................610
Enterprise ...................... 70
Eureka ............................ 16
Evergreen ......................259
Excelsior ........................ 166
Fairmount ......................435
Fallbrook ........................317
Far West..........................673
Ferndale .......................... 193
Fidelity ............................120
Fillmore ..........................379
Fort Crook...................... 575
Fortitude ........................624
Francis Drake .......:........376
Franklin .......................... 143
Fremont .....................:....497
Fresno ..............................247
Friendship ......................210
Fruitvale ..........................336
Galt .........•~.................,....267
George Washington......525

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
I0.00
2.75
5.00
5.00
I0.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
I2.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
I5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
12.50
I2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

lodge
N o.
Golden Rule ....................479
Golden Gate.................... 30
Gold Hill.......................... 32
Hammonton ..................433
Hanford ················-·-····279
Hartley ....:....................... I99
Hawaiian ........................ 2I
Henry Knox._.................662
Henry Clay.....................• 95
Henry Morse
Stephens ......................541
Henry S. Orme..............458
Hermann ............:...........127
Hesperian ....................;...264
Highland Park................382
Hill's Ferry ....................236
Hiram .............................. 43
Hollenbeck ......................319
Hollywood ......................355
Holtville ..'........................425
Honolulu ........................409
Howard .......................... 37
Humboldt ...................... 79
Illinoistown .................... 51
Indian Rock ....................638
Ione .................................. 80
Jewel ..............•.................374
John P . Jarman ..............669
Jonathan ..........................545
Jubilee ..............................604
Kauai ..............................589
Keith ................................ 187
King David's....................209
La Fayette .......................126
La Jolla............................518
Lakeshore ......................551
Landmark ......................253
La Parfaite Union.......... 17
Las Palmas ......................366
Laurel ................................245
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ....................371
Libertas ..........................466
Liberty ............................299
Live Oak.......................... 61
Lodi .......•..........................256
Long Beach.:..................327
Los Angeles .................... 42
Los Gatos ....................:...292
Loyalton ..........................359
Madera ...........................~~O
Madison .......................... 23
Malta ................................661
Maricopa ........................434
Marin ..............................191

85 '

Amt.
5.00
12.50
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

2.so

5.00
5.00
15.00 .
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
I5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50

• 86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ..

No. Amt.
Lodge
10.00
Martinez ········-··············· 41
5.00
Mendocino ...................... 179
5.00
Meridian ..........................667
5.00
Midway .............•.........,....426
Mill Valley ......................356 25.00
12.50
Mission •.............:.............169
5.00
Modesto ··············-··········675
5.00
Molino ............................150
Monterey ........................217
5.00
5.00
Morgan HilL..................463
Mosaic ..............................218
5.00
Mt. Diablo........................448
2.50
Mt. Moriah ...................... 44
5.00
Mt. Oso.........................,..460
10.00
5.00
Mountain View .............. 194
5.00
Mt. McKinley..................347
5.00
Natoma ............................ 64
Naval ................................ 87
15.00
2.50
Nevada ............................ 13
5.00
Nicolaus .......................... 129
Norwalk ..........................315
5.00
Oak Grove........................215
5.00
Oakland ......~................... 188 10.00
Ocean Park......................369
5.00
Occidental ...................... 22 20.00
5.00
Olive Branch .•................269
Oriental ,......................... 144 25.00
7.50
Orland ............................265
Oxnard ............................341
5.00
20.00
Pacific ····- ·······················136
Pacific Grove..................331
10.00
Pajaro .:.......................:.... 110 10.00
Palisades ..........................-037
5.00
Palestine ..........................351
5.00
Palo Alto.....c •• •• • ••••••••••••••• 346 . 5.00
Palos Ver des ..................389 25.00
Park ..................................449
10.00
Parnassus ........................388 20.00
Pasadena ........................272 25.00
Paso Robles ....................286
5.00
5.00
Patterson ........................488
5.00
Paul Revere ....................462
5.00
Penrhyn ..........................258
10.00
Pentalpha ........................202
2.50
'Petaluma - ······················180
5.00
Perris .... ~.........................411
10.00
Phoenix .......................... 178
15.00
Piedmont ........................521
5.00
Pinole ...•..........................353
5.00
Pittsburg ........................429
2.50
Plumas ............................ 60
5.00
Point ................................503
10.00
Point Firmin....................558
5.00
Point Loma ....................620
10.00
Poinona ..........................246

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR N I A

Lodge
No. Amt.
Presidio ......:.........•.........354 12.50
10.00
Reading ....:.....................254
10.00
Redondo ..........................328
10.00
Redwood City................ 168
12.50
Richmond ......................375
5.00
Rising Light....................397
5.00
Rio Vista..........................208
5.00
Riverside ...................:....635
5.00
Rockridge ........................468
2.50
Roosevelt ........................500
5.00
Roseville ........................222
5.00
Russian River ................ 181
10.00
Sacramento .................... 40
5.00
Salinas ............................204
2.50
San Benito ......................211
10.00
San Bernardino ..............348
San Diego........................ 35 25.00
10.00
San Fernando..................343
12.50
San Francisco ................360
5.00
San GabrieL...•.................546
10.00
San Gorgonio ................668
5.00
San J aciitto......................338
5.00
San Jpse ............................ 10
10.00
San Mateo........................226
10.00
San Miguel......................285
5.00
San Pedro........................332
10.00
San Simeon......................196
10.00
Santa Ana ........................241
10.00
Santa Barbara ................ 192
10.00
Santa Cruz .:.................... 38
2.50
Santa Maria ....................580
5,00
Santa Monica..................307
7.50
Santa Rosa ...................... 57
5.00
Seaport ............................550
Security ..........................581
5.00
Suisun .............................. 55
5.00
5.00
Selma .........~ ....................277
Semper Virens................552
5.00
Sequoia ............................349
10.00
10.00
Service ........................,...594
Silver Gate ......................296
10.00
10.00
Silver TroweL................415
Silveyville ......................201
10.00
Sincerity ....:.........:...........132
5.00
Snow Mountain..............271 . 2.50
South Pasadena..............367
5.00
South San Francisco ....212
10.00
South W est......................283
10.00
St. Helena........................ 93
5.00
5.00 .
Speranza Italiana ..........219
Standard ..........................440
5.00
Stani'slaus ........................206
10.00
Starr King........................344 25.00
5.00
Stocktd'n ..........................498
Taft ..................................516 ·
5.00 .

Lodge
No.
Tehachapi ........................ 313
Tehama ............................ 3
Temblor ..........................477
Texas .............................. 46
Thousand Oaks ..............478
Torrance ..........................447
Trinity ............................ 27
Truckee ..........................200
Tuolumne ........................ 8
Tuscan ............................261
Union .............................. 58
Vacaville ........................ 134
Vallejo ............................487
Veritas ............................640
Vesper .............................. 84
Victorville ......................634

Amt.
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00

87

Lodge
No. Amt.
Victory ,...........................474 10.00
Visalia .............:................ 128 . 10.00
Washington .................. 20 10.00
Welcome ........................255
10.00
\Vestern Star.................. 2
5.00
White Pine......................555
10.00
Willow Glen ....................676
2.50
Wilmington .................... 198
5.00
Wilshire ..........................445 22.00
Woodbridge .................. 131
2.50
Woodland ........................156
5.00
Woodstock ...........:........491
5.00
Y erba B uena....................403
5.00
Yosemite ........................ 99
5.00
Yolo .................................. 81
2.50
Yount .............................. 12
5.00

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No. Amt.
Auburn ............................ 52 $ 2.50
Bakersfield ...................... 39
5.00
Berkeley .......................... 42
5.00
California ........................ 1 25.00
Calvary ............................ 62
5.00
Chico ................................ 12
5.00
Colusa .............................. 24
5.00
Eureka ............................ 35
5.00
Fresno .............................. 29
2.50
Golden West.................... 43
5.00
Marysville ...................... 7
5.00
Modesto .......................... 57
5.00
Mount Shasta.................. 32
5.00
Naval ................................ 19
5.00
Nevada ............................ 6
2.50
Oakland .......................... 11
10.00
Oroville ............................ 5 10.00

Commandery
No.
Pacific ...............:.............. 3
Pasadena ........................ 31
Red Bluff.......................... 17
Sacramento .................... 2
San Diego........................ 25
San Francisco.................. 41
San Jose............................ 10
San Luis Obispo............ 27
San Pedro........................ 60
Santa Cruz ...................... 44
Santa Rosa ...................... 14
Southern California ...... 37
St. Bernard...................... 23
Ukiah .............................. 33
Vacaville .......................... 38
Ventura .......................... 18
Woodland ...................... 21

Chapters, R. A. M.
. Chapter
No. Amt.
Chapter
N o.
Alameda .......................... 70 $ 5.00
Keystone ........................ 56
Antioch ............................ 65
10.00
La Purissima ..................104
Chico ................................ 42
5.00
Marin .............................. 102
Coalinga ..........................114
5.00
Martinez .......................... 31
Colusa .............................. 60
5.00
Mill Valley ......................108
Crown .............................. 72
5.00
Modesto .......................... 49
C;arus ................................ 15
5.00
Naval .............................. 35
Donner ............................ 39
Nevada ............................ 6
5.00
Doric ................................ 66
Oakland .......................... 36
5.00
El Centro..........................109
Ontario ............................105
5.00
Ferndale .......................... 78
5.00
Pomona ............................ 76
Gfass Valley.:.................. 18
2.50
Redondo ..........................101
Hanford .......................... 74 25.00
Salinas .............................. 59
Howard .............'............. 14 10.00
Santa Cruz·...................... 38

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Amt.
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapter
No.
Searchlight ...................... 133
Siloam .................._........... 37
Solano .............................. 43
Sonora.............................. 2
South Pasadena.............. 112
St. Helena........................ 63

Amt.
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00

Chapter
No.
Sutter .............................. 11
Visalia ................................44
Washington .................... 13
Wilmington ................... .141
Woodland ...................... 46

Amt.
2.50
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Councils, R. & S. M.
Council
No. Amt.
California ........................ 2 $ 2.50
Gateway .......................... 13
2.50

Council
No. Amt..
Pomona .......................... 21 $ 5.00
2.50
Valley .............................. 27

Lodges of Perfectio,;
No. Amt.
No. Amt.
Lodge
Lodge
10 $25.00
Peninsula ........................ 14 $10.00
California
7.50
Sacramento .................... 4 12.50
Fresno .............................. 6
12.50
San Francisco .................. I
Oakland ......................... . 2 25.00
Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No. Amt.
Chapter
No. Amt.
Mira Monte ...................... 141 $ 5.00
Mercedes ........................ 126 $10.00
Mill Valley ...................... 219
10.00
San Rafael... .....................215
10.00
Individuals and Miscellaneous
Columbia Acacia Club of Torrance................................................................$ 5.00
Milton E. Crowe-Oakland Bodies, A. & A. S. IL..................................... 3.00
Joseph Eastwood, Mountain View................;........... ~---········· .. ····-~............. 5.00
Amory K. Johnson, Baltimore, Maryland...................................................... 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. Alex. McCabe, San Francisco,................................................ 10.00
Masonic Officers' Association of 70th and 7lst Districts .......................... 12.50
Officers' Club of the 39th Masonic District.................................................. 5.00
C. W. Padelford, Fillmore.................................................................................. 10.00
Mr. and Mrs. Karl E. Pederson ..............................- ...................................... 12.50
Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers' Association...................................... 5.00
Arthur J. Thormure, Los Angeles .•...•.. :........................_............................... 5.00
Margaret Stout Metcalf, San Dieg-0......................................_.... :................... 5.00
Martin J. Zehler.................................................................................................... 3.00
Names of Residents--Decoto Home
Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home the date
of their admission, their respective ages, the name and numb~r of the
Lodges nominating them .and the location of such Lodges, complete to
August 31, 1940.
Men, 182-Average age, 75.28

Name
Admitted
Adkins, Jason A ...........July 13, '40
Allan, ] am es G ............. Apr. 1, '39
Alseth, Lars .................. Mar. 7, '34
Anderson, Charles A ... Nov. 19, '36

Lodge
No.
San Simeon ...... 196
Crocker ..........~..454
Moneta ..............405
Tehachapi .......... 313

Age
Town
Cambria .......... 60
Daly City........ 66
Los Angeles ....66
Tehachapi ...... 77

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

89

Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Anthony, Thomas M ...July 17, '39 Sequoia ..............349
Archer, Ernest E ...........Jan. 30, '36 Palos· Verdes ...... 389
Asmus, Ernest A ......... Dec. 16, '34 ·Mill Valley..........356
Atwood, Ira A. ............ Sept. 7, '31 El Cajon Valley.. 576
Bader, Henry .............. Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon's ..260
Barnes, Elmer W .........July 7, '34 Liberty .............. 299
Bartlett, Frank A .........Jan. 26, '38 Doric .................. 216
Battle, Joseph D ........... Dec. 9, '30 Stanislaus ..........206
Beal, Charles L ............. Feb. 15, '34 Hawaiian ............ 21
Beall, Alex. D ............... Mar. 29, '36 Mount Moriah .... 44
Benninger, Wm. G..... Mar. 27, '34 Hanford ..............279
Bentley, Isam H ...........Jan. 31, '31 Oakdale ............. 275
Bewley, John C........... Aug. 11, '40 Lodi ................... .256
Bird, Robert B............. Dec. 6, '36 Mission ............. .169
Bly, Carl D .....................,Tuly 7, '34 Hollenbeck ........ 319
Boehm, Hiram J ...........July 19, '31 Big Bear .............. 6°17
Bonde, Hans P .............July 6, '32 Alisa! ..................321
Bosanke, Thomas W ... Aug. 30, '35 Gravel Range .... 59
Bosserman, David W. Nov. 7, '35 South Park ........ 563
Bright, Luther R. ........ Sept. 5, '37 Smyrna .............. 532
Brittain, William H .....June 14, '40 Coronado .......... 441
Carfagni, Peter .............. Oct.·31, '36 Speranza
. Italiana .......... 219
Carpenter, John J ......... May 2, '37 Mendocino ........ 179
Carr, Mell A ................. Aug. 4, '36 Ione .................... 80
Cassady, Earl ]. ............ Feb. 3, '36 George
Washington .. 525
Casterline, Myron N ... Nov. 16, '32 Oceanside .......... 381
Closson, Harry J ......... May 4, '31 Tuolumne .......... 8
Collins, Nelson W ....... Sept. 12, ~19 Calistoga ............ 233
Corson, Joseph M ....... Dec. 30, '33 Valley ................. .135
Cramer, Herman .......... Nov. 30, '38 Tuolumne .......... 8
Crandall, Ahneron........ Oct. 24, '34 Long Beach ........ 327
Cullen, Alexander........ Feb. 4, '36 Hollywood ........355
Daniels, George S ....... Aug. 1, '37 Riverbank ......... .459
Dillman, Thomas M... May 16, '37 Norwalk ............ 315
Dinesen, Jacob N ......... Nov. 1, '32 Live Oak ............ 61
Dolan, John C............. Aug. 4, '31 Redlands ............ 300
Elliott, Thomas W .......Jan. 15, '38 Durant ................ 268
Engle, Wm. H ............... Dec. 12, '31 Pentalpha .......... 202
Ernst, Cuno A,. ............ Aug. 26, '32 Tehama .............. 3
Fender, Andrew J ....... Dec. 5, '30 Northern Light .. 190
Ford, William ]. .......... Sept. 4, '37 McKinley .......... 347
Fox, James .................... Apr. 26, '38 Forbestown ...... 50
Franck, Isadore ............Jan. 10, '16 La Parfaite
Union .............. 17
Frye, Abram A. A. J ... May 27, '39 Presidio ..............354
Furlong, Barre A ......... Mar. 4, '39 Pomona .............. 246
Geibel, George F ......... May 12, '39 Fairmount .......... 435
Gilbert, Thomas .......... May 20, '36 Sequoia .............. 349
Gilmartin, Thomas E ... Oct. 28, '34 Suisun ................ 55
Goodrich, Edward ...... Aug. 8, '31
Fresno ................ 247
Greaves, Walter............ Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ................ 396
Gregory, George W ...April 25, '36 Sunset ................ 352

Town
Age
Oakland ..........76
Long Beach .... 73
Mill Valley ...... 70
El Cajon ..........78
San Francisco ..76
Santa Clara ....71
San F rancisco..80
Modesto ..........80
Honolulu ........ 74
San Francisco .. 76
Hanford ..........74
Oakdale ..........80
Lodi ................73
San Francisco ..77
Los Angeles ....80
Pine Knot ........77
Pleasanton ...... 77
Camptonville ..65
Los Angeles ......84
Ceres ................83
Coronado ........81
San Francisco .. 79
Mendocino ....81
Ione ................ 73
San Francisco ..69
Oceanside .... :.75
Sonora ............71
Calistoga ........ 78
Linden ............83
Sonora ............73
Long Beach .... 86
Hollywood .... 78
Riverbank ......77
Norwalk ..........91
Oakland .......... 78
Redlands ........ 75
Berkeley ........ 77
Los Angeles .... 70
Sacramento .... 77
Millville .......... 77
Richmond ......71
Forbestown ......90
San Francisco .. 9~
San Francisco .. 79
Pomona ............76
San Francisco 66
Oakland ..........81
Suisun ............68
Fresno ............ 85
Alameda .......... 71
Los Angeles .... 74

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name ·
Admitted
Grim, Wm. E ............... Aug.15, '39
Halpin, Robert L ......... Oct. 23, '33
Hamblin, Abraham L ...Jan. 8, '34
Hamilton, Robert M ... Apr. 25, '36
Harris, Elijah ................July 6, '35
Harris, Louis ..................} an. 13, '23
Hart, Henry H ............. Feb. 10, '38
Hartin, Henry H ......... Feb. 8, '37
Haupt, Oscar................ June 28, '30
Hayes, Corwin }. ........ Mar. 5, '36
Heath, James H ........... Feb. 8, '35
Heidt, Wesley.............. Aug. 5, '39
Henry, Wm. P .............July 10, '37
Hiltner, Harry B......... Aug. 17, '40
Hinderliter, Andrew.D. Aug. 25, '40
Huff, Wm. J ................. Apr. 8, '37
Hughes, Eugene F ....... Mar. 11, '33
Hughes, Henry }. ........ Dec. 26, '35
Hullinger, Frank.......... Aug. 26, '40
Hunn, George .............. Aug. 1, '34
Hyde, George ................ Dec. 22, '30
Isaac, Adolph ,..,............Jan. 31, '37
Jack, Charles P .............J an. 9, '38
Jensen, James L. .......... Mar. 2, '33

Lodge
No.
Landmark ......... .253
Silver Trowel ....415
South West........283
Temblor ............477
Pasadena ............272
Los Angeles ...... 42
Marin .................. 191
Arcata ................ 106
Naval .................. 87
Covina .. :............. 334
Santa Maria ........ 580
Occidental .......... 22
Yount .................. 12
Fairmount .......... 435
Delta ................. .471
San Jose .............. 10
Phoenix .............. 178
Fairmount ......... .435
Sequoia .............. 349
Salinas ............... .204
Mill Valley .......... 356
Doric ..................216
Presido .............. 354
Texas .................. 46

Johanson, Charles A ...Jan. 29, '39
Jones, George Wm..... Sept. 8, '38
Journal, Philip S......... Mar. 6, '27
Kemp, Edward H ....... Nov. 24, '37
Kerr, Charles A........... Aug. 25, '37
Ketcham, Frank. ......... Sept. 10, '37
Kimball, John C........... Mar. 27, '33
Kinchin, Peter.. ............ Nov. 4, '35
Kirsch, Louis C ........... Mar. 20, '37

Balder ................ 393
Delano ................309
Sequoia ..............349
Oak Grove ........ 215
Morgan Hill ......463
Clay .................... 101
Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Mariposa ............ 24
South San
Francisco ......212
Hollenbeck ........ 319
Solano ................229
La Fayette .......... 126
Sincerity ............ 132
Hollenbeck ........ 319
Santa Monica .... 307
South Gate.......... 320
Live Oak. ........... 61
Pasadena ........... .272
Santa Cruz .......... 38
La Mesa ............. .407
South Gate .......... 320
Mosaic ................ 218
University .......... 394
Laurel ............... .245
Starr King .......... 344
Redondo ............ 328

Kittridge, Charles H ... Nov. 4, '33
Lacy, Hervey R. .......... Aug. 16, '34
Laton, Edward L ......... Apr. 23, '32
Laufman, Robert L. ....Jan. 11, '39
Lawrence, Guerdon C..... Apr. 8, '36
Lehman, August H ..... Dec. 14, '28
Lenox, Andrew } ......... June 16, '39
Loher, George T ...........July 1, '39
Lynch, Walter C......... Feb. 8, '36
Martin, Benj. R, ............ May 15, '24
Matthews, Elbert C.....July 10, '35
McAlpine, David J.. ..... Oct. 1, '36
McClain, Charles A .....July 26, '33
McDowell, Wm. M ..... Apr. 6, '36
McRae, Alexander ........ Oct. 20, '30
Meinhardt, John D .......July31, '40
Metcalf, Chris D ........... Apr. 19, '35

91

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Town
Age
Esparto .......... 80
Los Angeles .... 67
National. City.. 74
Fellows .......... 74
Pasadena ........ 75
Los Angeles .... 64
San Rafael... ... 79
Arcata ............ 61
Vallejo ............77
Covina ....... :.... 75
Ramona .......... 77
San Francisco.. 75
Napa ................83
San Francisco .. 73
Stockton ........ 82
San Jose .......... 75
SanBernardirto 87
San Francisco.. 70
Oakalnd ............63
Salinas ............ 77
Mill Valley...... 81
San Francisco.. 79
San Francisco .. 61
San Juan
Bautista ........ 78
San Francisco.. 80
Delano ..............64
Oakland .......... 89
Alameda ........ 72
Morgan HilL.73
Dutch Flat... ... 75
San Francisco .. 83
Mariposa ........ 79
San Francisco.. 64
Los Angeles ....76
Vallejo ............ 63
Sebastopol ...... 75
Greenville ...... 73
Los Angeles ....65
Santa Monica .. 81
Los Angeles .... 72
Oakland .......... 73
Pasadena ........65
Santa Cruz ...... 75
La Mesa .......... 72
Los Angeles .... 87
Livermore ...... 86
Los Angeles .... 83
Willows .......... 76
San Francisco ..79
Redondo
Beach .. :.........76

Name
Admitted
Millar, David S ............. Apr. 2, '32
Miller, George 0 ......... Aug. 30, '38
Milisich, Chris ............... Oct. 5, '31
Moore, Walter } ........... May 26, '38
Morris, Harry B.........Nov. 28, '30
Morrison, Wm. F .......June 27, '32
Murden, Robert } ......... Mar. 26, '28
Myers, Wm. P ............. Feb. 1, '32
Nevitt, Charles E ......... Oct. 31, '36
Northern, Pleasant M... Nov. 8, '37
Otto, Fred A................. Feb. 23, '30
Owen, Wm. L. ..........~.f..ug. 12, '22
Parker, David N ......... Mar. 14, '33
Parks, Dan C...............June 14, '37
Pouyet, Eugene ............ Oct. 26, '37
Preslar, Henry A ......... Dec. 10, '39
Pritchard, Howard M... Oct. 6, '39
Quilty, Frank E ........... Feb. 1, '33
Reaper, Robert W ....... May 14, '39
Reinhold, Peter W .......July 16, '37
Rice, Fred'k A ............... May 20, '40
Riley, Perry M............. Feb. 22, '37
Rose, James .................. Dec. 12, '38
Ross, Andrew................ May 3, '39
Russell, George McC ... Feb. 2, '34
Ryan, Charles A........... Aug. 28, '40
Sangster, Donald .......... Oct. 4, '32
Sarwine, Christian H ... J une 10, '36
Schan dell. Mathais \. .. .}an. 15, '38
Schlichting, Martin ...... May 16; '35
Scott, Walter L ............. Apr. 1, '34
Sebree, Charles H ....... Mar. 21, '36
Senestrari, Jacob T .....Mar. 27, '33
Seymour, Milton .......... Feb. 1, '36
Sheldon, William M .... .}uly 26, '40
Shuttleworth, Fred'k....July 17, '39
Slagel, Robert B ...........Oct. 28, '38
Smith, Charles ............ Sept. 2, '31
Smith, John S... ~ ...........Feb. 5, '39
Smith, Roland A ...........Jan. 29, '27
Smith, William C......... Apr. 25, '28
Sniffen, Samuel T ......... Jan. 31, '33
Standeford, Wm. B ..... Nov. 12, '29
Stevens, Harry G ... :..... Nov. 6, '38
Swedberg, Eric .............. Oct. 19, '29
Taylor, George McC...July 14, '25
Templeman, Henry .... Dec. 29, '38
Thompson, Geo. S .......Aug. 11, '39
Thompson, Loretto P .....Dec. 10, '39
Thompson, John W ... Aug. 11, '34
Todd, Albert E. W ..... Dec. 19, '38

Lodge
No.
Southern
California ..... 278
Chico .................. 111
Speranza
Italiana ..........219
Security .............. 581
La Fayette .......... 126
Solano ................229
Alcatraz ..............244
Las Palmas ........ 366
Hollywo~d ........ 355
Lindsay ..............416
Lassen ................ 149
Mission .............. 169
Pasadena ............272
Francis K.
Shattuck ........ 571
Catalina Island .. 524
Alcatraz .............. 244
Phoenix .............. 178
Friendship ..........210
Starr King .......... 344
Marin .................. 191
Truth .................. 628
Lakeshore .......... 551
Amity .................. 370
Morgan Hill... .. .463
Beverly Hills ...... 528
Baldwin Park .... 660
Mendocino ........ 179
Monrovia ......... 308
Dunsmuir .......... 297
Seaport .............. 550
Burlingame ....... .400
Pacific Grove ...... 331
Monterey .......... 217
Honolulu ............ 409
Friendship ........ 210
So. Pasadena ...... 367
Parnassus .......... 388
Georgetown ...... 25
Paul Revere ........ 462
Callayomi .......... 282
Oakland .............. 188
West Lake .......... 392
Live Oak............ 61
Utopia ................ 537
Reading .............. 254
Excelsior ............ 166
Oriental .............. 144
Oak Grove .......... 215
Excelsior ............ 166
Caledonia .......... 486
Honolulu ............ 409

Town

Age

Los Angeles .... 82
Chico .............. 83
San Francisco.. 76
Bakersfield ...... 59
Sebastopol ...... 76
Vallejo ............ 78
Oakland .......... 74
Fresno ............ 71
Hollywood .... 79
Lindsay .......... 68
Susanville ......74
San Francisco ..81
Pasadena ........93
Berkeley ........ 71
Avalon ............ 57
Oakland .......... 79
San Bernardino 79
San Jose .......... 87
San Francisco..62
San RafaeL. ... 81
Los Angeles .... 73
Oakland ..........69
San Francisco ..65
Morgan Hi!L.74
Beverly Hills .... 77
Baldwin Park.. 63
Mendocino ...... 84
Monrovia ........ 80
Dunsmuir ...... 76
San Francisco ..67
Burlingame ...... 67
Pacific Grove .. 79
Monterey ........ 76
Honolulu ........ 70
San Jose .......... 79
So. Pasadena..72
San Francisco.. 63
Georgetown ....80
San Francisco.. 71
Middletown .... 80
Oakland ..........80
Los Angeles .... 85
Oakland .......... 73
Los Angeles .... 68
Redding ..........85
San Francisco .. 78
San Francisco ..80
Alameda ..........69
San Francisco.. 60
Bakersfield .... 75
Honolulu ........70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

92

PROCEEDINGS' OF THE

Name
Admitted
Tosy, Antonio.............. Sept. 23, '37
Touchette, Alfred O ..... Feb. 11, '39
Travelli, Joseph .......... Sept. 24, '32
Traverse, John .............. May 7, '36
Trost, John H ...............Mar. 15, '32
Tucker, Ira W . ............ May 12, '33
Tyler, Fred J.................Aug. 4, '40
Viles, Charlston H ....... Oct. 24, '29
Vorsanger, Edw. A.....June 10, '37
Waite, Fred ....................July 16, '35
Ward, Kenneth L ....... Nov. 16, '35
Warren, William ..........Aug. 4, '39
Watkins, David K ....... Nov. 29, '31
Welch, George H ......... May 8, '37
Welton, John Wm ....... Jan. 12, '39
White, Frank................Mar. 1, '36
Whiteside, William ...... Dec. 5, '35
Wideman, Conrad J ...Sept. 3, '39
Wigginton, James W ...July 15, '29
Williams, Arthur V .....Apr. 15, '37
Wilson, Charles .......... Sept. 22, '32
Wilson, George............ Mar. 31, '36
Witcosky, John A. ...... Sept. 16, '30
Wood, Uriah S ............. Aug. 21, '31
Wright, Ralph ................Jan. 26, '39
Yarrington, James T ... Feb. 26, '29

Lodge
No.
Speranza
Italiana ..........219
San Diego .......... 35
Oakdale ..............'?:75
Evening Star ......186
Ferndale ............193
San Jose .............. 10
Maxwell ..............288
Abell .................J46
Martinez ............ 41
Delano ................309
Howard .............. 37
Point Firmin ...... 558
Paul Revere ........ 462
Union .................. 58
Mission .............. 169
Nevada .............. 13
Amity ..................370
Fraternity .......... 399
S. W . Hackett .... 574
Oriental ..............144
Parnassus ..........388
Fraternity .......... 399
Amity .................. 370
Mount Oso....... .460
Seaside ................ 504
University .......... 394

Town

Age

San Francisco.. 73
San Diego ........83
Oakdale .......... 78
Etna ................76
Ferndale ..........86
San Jose ............86
Maxwell ..........74
Ukiah ............:.83
Martinez ........72
Delano ............68
Yreka ..............81
San Pedro ........ 58
San Francisco .. 68
Sacramento ......79
San Francisco .. 74
Nevada City...... 94
San Francisco..76
San Jose ..........82
San Diego ........ 83
San Francisco.. 66
San Francisco..72
San Jose ............ 75
San Francisco..61
Tracy ..............82
Long Beach .... 58
Los Angeles .... 78

· • Departures during the year--4
N ame
Age
Lodge
No.
Bucher, Albert F .........................75 Curtis ..................140
Court, Agnes ~...........................72 Crockett .............. 139
Chapman, Jesse H .......................76 East Gate ............ 290
Fronefield, Anna T ............. _____ 71 Occidental .......... ?2

Date
Aug. 19, '39
Apr.
5, '40
July 22, '40
Nov. 28, '39

Women, 142-Average age ?3.92
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Allen, Ida ...................... Feb. 17, '40 Balder ................393
Anderson, Hilda C. ...... Oct. 28, '34 Crockett ...........:..139
Appleton, Minnie P .....Aug. 1, '36 Live Oak............ 61
Atwood, Ida !............. Sept. 7, '31
El Cajon Valley ..576
Ba.ker, Annie J ............. May 19, '39 Sequoia .............. 349
Bane, Annabell E ......... July 20, '32 Orland ....:...........265
Bane, Florence A ......... Nov. 13, '29 Rockridge ..........468
Barnes, Elaine G ...........July 7, '34 Liberty .............. 299
Bartlett, Helen E .........Jan. 26, '38 Doric ..................216
Barton, Annie N ......... Aug. 27, '33 Truckee .............. 200
Berge, Lilly B ............ ._Sept. 30, '26 West Gate.......... 335
Bernstein, Cornelia..... .June 26, '24 Berkeley ............ 363
Biggart, Alice M .........Sept. 11, '39 Gardena ..............372
Blinn, Sophia W ...........Jan. 20, '30. Truckee ..............200
Bolting, Isadore L ....... Dec. 29, '33 Silver Gate..........296
Brink, Ollie ... :................June 25, '38 Pacific Grove .... 331

Town
Age
San Francisco .. 72
San Francisco ..62
Oakland .......... 63
El Cajon ........ 75
Oakland .... ,.....64
Orland ............73
Oakland ..........75
Santa Clara...... 70
San Francisco..69
Truckee .......... 88
Los Angeles .... 86
Berkeley ........81
Gardena ..........83
Truckee .......... 80
San Diego........ 81
Pacific Grove .... 71

Lodge
No.
Magnolia ............242
Bethlehem ........453
Las Palmas ........ 366
King Solomon's..260
Sisson ................310
Silver Gate ..........296
Oceanside ..........381
Coalinga ............ 387
Union .................. 58
Laurel ................245
Alpha ..................431
Alexander
Graham Bell .. 595
Collister, Mary L .........Jan. 19, '30 Vitruvius ............ 145
Copeland, Wilhelmina.July 11, '32 Golden Gate ........ 30
Charity ..............362
Cornell, Mabel... ........... Dec. 14, '35
Costain, Mattie L .........June 10, '40 San Jose .............. 10
Daniels, Harriet J ....... Sept. 12, '38 Riverbank ..........459
Davis, Fannie................June 24, '34 Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Davis, Grace G. ·····-··---July 25, '16 Naval .................. 87
Drew, Minnie ................ Oct. 20, '33 Unity ..................368
Duncalf, Ada D ............. Oct. 7, '39 Arbuckle ............ 182
Dupuy, Ruth .................. May 10, '40 Valle de France ..329
Edwards, Nellie B .........Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn ........... .225
Felton, Mary M ........... Oct. 3, '34 Mt. Davidson ... .481
Ferguson, Ruth R. ...... May 26, '34 Sotoyome ......... .123
Fetrow, Dora L ...........May 11, '35 Corinthian .......... 9
Finley, Ada, L ............... Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ...... 42
Crockett ............ 139
Fortriede, Auguste ......Apr. 24, '25
Foster, Elizabeth M .....July 8, '36 Hawaiian ............ 21
Foster, Nellie G ...........J une 21, '30 Berkeley ............ 363
Fritch, Beulah M ......... Sept. 7, '39 Hollywood ........355
Garnett, Katherine ...... Apr. 13, '36 Silveyville ......... .201
Gordon, Emma ............June 27, '36 Occidental ........ 22
Gordon, Isabel C. ........ Feb. 12, '28 Carquinez .......... 337
Grant, dman A . .......... Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25
Greaves, Margaret I..... Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ................ 396
Gregory, Emily ............ June 6, '33 Concord ..............117
Griffith, Rose L ........... Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise ........ 70
Harris, Louise C ........... Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ................ 136
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10
Henderson, Florence B- May 25, '40 Morning Star .... 68
Hiller, Jennie C.............J an. 10, '38 Pentalpha ..........202
Hiltner, Mary .............Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ......... .435
Honey, Alice..................July 22, '34 Keystone ............161
Hughes, Laura H ....... Mar. 11, '33 Phoenix ............. .178
Hulsey, Tempie E .......Sept. 18, '37 Fillmore ............ 379
Hutchinson, Sara J .....June 11, '34 Liberty ..............299
Sacramento ........ 40
Irvine, Adelaide H ..... Nov. 4, '31
McKinley .......... 347
Jack, Mary.................... June 1, '31
Jackson, May R. ........Aug. 27, '25 • Lompoc ..............262
James, Jennie L ........... Nov. 19, '33 Live Oak ............ 61
Durant ................ 268
Jen kins, Mary E ........... May 21, '31
Johns, Sarah ................ Sept. 6, '36 East Belt ............ 391

Admitted
Name
Broughton, Anne E ...Sept. 6, '34
Brown, Lima C. ............ May 25, '34
Burnett, Ethlan R. ...... Feb. 9, '36
Bush , Lotta A ............. Aug. 28, '37
Cass, Mary E ..... - ..........July 7, '28
Cassidy, Lottie .............. May 30, '33
Casterline, Mary A. ....Apr. 10, '34
Cavender, Mary O ....... Mar. 18, '37
Chapman, Magnolia W. Mar. 20, '37
Clare, Jennie G .............Dec. 14, '39
Clark, Minnie A ........... Jan. 6, '37
Coar, Lydia E ......... _...:Feb. 11, '34

93

Town
Age
Santa Barbara..84
San Francisco ..84
Fresno . ~ ............65
San Francisco.. 67
Mt. Shasta ...... 84
San Diego ...... 79
Oceanside ......67
Coalinga ........ 69
Sacramento .... 78
Willows ..........71
Richmond ...... 69
Los Angeles ....88
Bloomfield ...... 86
San Francisco .. 67
Campbell .......... 57
San Jose .......... 64
Riverbank ...... 66
San Francisco ..84
Vallejo .... :.......86
Glendale ..........80
Arbuckle ........ 71
Los Angeles ..68
Oakland .......... 65
San Francisco .. 65
Healdsburg .... 83
Marysville ...... 71
Los Angeles .. 69
San Francisco ..63
Honolulu ..........71
Berkeley ........:.77
Hollywood .. :... 77
Dixon ..............76
San Francisco ...61
Crockett .......... 66
Georgetown .. 66
Alameda ... ;...... 60
Sacramento .... 72
Yuba City ........74
San Francisco .. 65
San Jose ............ 70
San Francisco..60
Los Angeles ......65
San Francisco .. 69
Milton ..............81
San Bernardino 85
Fillmore ............84
Santa Clara ......78
Sacramento .... 91
Richmond ......73
Lompoc ..........81
Oakland ..........78
Berkeley ........ 70
Tuolumne ...... 84

94 .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
LQdge
No.
Johnson, Jane H ...........Jan. 6, '34 Presidio ..............354
Jones, Camilla T ........... Apr. 8, '34 Occidental ........ 22
Jones, Mary.................. Dec. 23, '38 Oakland ............ 188
Keenan, Effie ··········'·-··July 17, '33 . Jewel .................. 374
Kellogg, Lillie F ........... Dec. 2, '30 Chula Vista........626
Kelso, Katherine..........Apr. 26, '35 Redwood City.... 168
Kemp, Josephine A. .... Nov. 24, '37 Oak Grove..........215
Kidd, Millie A ............. Aug. 21, '32 Amity ................370
Kimball, Annette C. ....Aug. 3, '32 Enterprise .......... 70
Kimball, Camelia L. ....Sept. 19, '26 San Francisco ..360
Kimball, Lila M ........... Mar. 27, '33 Mount Moriah .. 44
Klevesahl, Catherine ..Aug. 27, '35 Hermann ............ 127
Lamb, Julia E ............... Oct. 23, '36 King David's ....209
Laufman, Anna............ Aug. 27, '24
Lightner, Sarah ].........Oct. 9, '28
Lindsley, Luella P .......Aug. 16, '34
Maltby, Sarah E ........... Dec. 16, '39
Mann, Bertha M ...........June 10, '33
Masse, Eleanor R ......... May 22, '36
Mayfield, Mary J .........Sept. 22, '35
McDowell, Alice M .....Mar. 24, '32
McLean, Lucy A .........Nov. 28, '34
Miller, Esther J ........... Mar. 5, '34
Moore, Mary S ..........:..May 9, '33
Myers, Sallie P ............. Mar. 2, '37
Nevitt, Laura V........... Oct~ 31, '36
Newman, Susanna ......June 4, '29
Nielsen, Mary V ......... Nov. 21, '27
Noble, Grace F .............July 4, '32
Nutter, Martha L. ......Mar. 25, '23
Ohlsen, Julia ................Sept. 7, '37
Pankow, Catherine...... Apr. 29, '29
Peairs, Lillian W ......... Feb. 11, '35
Perry, Mary C...............May 12, '30
Rackerby, Elizabeth ....Mar. 29, '30
Ramsey, Hattie L .......June 23, '40
Raymond, Lillian F ... Sept. 21, '39
Riser, Mary G............. Aug. 4, '39
Rogers, Leonora ..........Oct. 6, '25

Sincerity .........•..132
Starr King ........344
Morning Star...... 68
Chico .................. 111
Naval .................. · 87
Yount .................. 12
Alpha ..................431
Alcatraz ..............244
Excelsior ............ 166
Oriental .............. 144
Redwood City.... 168
Arlington ..........414
Hollywood ........ 355
Antioch .............. 175
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Trinity ................ 27
East Gate ..........290
Balder ................393
Crockett ...•........ 139
Normal
Heights ......:...632
Mendocino ........ 179
Crockett ............ 139
Monterey ..........217
Liberty ..............299
Brooklyn ..........:.225
King David's ....209

Root, Emma F ............. Dec. 2, '32
Roscoe, Nettie P .........,.Jan. 13, '32
Ross, Catherine L.,..... May 3, '39
Rouscup, Annie M . .... Sept. 18, '38
Rownan, Matilda ........Aug. 11, '36
Schmidt, E lla M ........... Mar. 18, '34
Seymour, Laura............ Feb. 1, '36
Shanks, E lla..................Sept. 1, '37
Smay, Madge M .........June 11, '36
Smith, Minnie A ...........July 12, '37
Snyder, Amanda G . .... Apr. 13, '37
Soale, Carl B.................May 15, '32

Ocidental .......... 22
Oroville .............. 103
Morgan Hill ......463
Burbank ............406
Sunnyside ..........577
Charter Rock ....410
Honolulu ............409
Hawaiian ............ 21
Alcatraz ..............244
Smyrna .............. 532
Bakersfield ........224
Corona ................324

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
San Francisco..74
San Francisco .. 70
Oakland ............67
San Francisco..63
Chula Vista ....84
Redwood City 75
Alameda · ........71
San Francisco.. 73
Yuba City........78
San Francisco..75
San Francisco.. 69
San Francisco..84
San Luis
Obispo ........68
Greenville ......89
San Francisco..80
Stockton ..........74
Chico ..............70
Vallejo ............72
Napa ................67
Richmond ......68
Oakland ...:....64
San Francisco..64
San Francisco..73
Redwood City..77
Los Angeles......81
Hollywood ......79
Antioch ............78
Santa Cruz........79
Weaverville ....80
Los Angeles......85
San Francisco..62
San Francisco.. 75
San Diego........71
Mendocino ......73
San Francisco ..82
Monterey ........79
Santa Clara...... 71
Oakland ..........77
San Luis
Obispo ..........81
San . Francisco..75
Oroville ..........69
Morgan Hill....67
Burbank ..........83
Los Angeles ....74
Berkeley ..........76
Honolulu ........62
Honolulu ........69
Oakland ..........73
Ceres ..............76
Bakersfield ....68
Pasadena ........83

Admitted
Name
Starbuck, Catherine.... Feb. 24, '32
Stewart, Mary..............Mar. 12, '32
Stroud, Laura L ...........June 2, '37
Teall, Lena.................... Aug. 22, '32
Terrell, Cynthia E ....... Sept. 15, '27
Thomas, Ellen S........... Oct. 5, '38
Thompson, Celia.......... Dec. 16, '33
Timm, Mattie A. ..•....... Sept. 5, '37
Torr, Georgina R. ........Jan. 14, '33
Vale, Olive B ...............June 18, '36
Wade, Georgia M .........Feb. 24, '39
Walton, Ida M............)une 22, '25
Weigel, May L. ............Apr. 10, '32
West, Henrietta B....... May 10, '30
Wetzel, Laura C...........Dec. 18, '35
Weybright, Annie M...July 17, '39
· Wilcox, Edith................ May 3, '36
Williams, Lillias ..........May 8, '32
Williams, Margaret K .. Sept. 2, '39
Wilson, Maryan .......... Mar. 31, '36
Withers, Phoebe..........June 13, '27
Yarrington, Grace M ... Feb. 26, '29

Lodge
No.
James A.
Foshay ............641
Concord .............. 117
Vacaville ............ 134
Golden Gate........ 30
Yosemite ............ 99
Euclid .................. 519
Eden .................... 113
Silveyville ..........201
Elmhurst ............610
Bethlehem ..........453
Oak Grove..........215
Oakland ............ 188
Marin ..................191
Santa Rosa.......... 57
Presidio ..............354
Tehama .............. 3
Durant ................268
Fortitude ............624
Fruitvale ............336
Fraternity ..........399
East Belt......:.....391
University ..........394

95

Town

Age

Los Angeles....69
Sacramento ....70
Vacaville ........67
San Francisco.. 77
Merced ............85
Los Angeles.... 59
San Leandro ..69
Dixon ..............76
Oakland ..........74
San Francisco..83
Alameda ........68
Oakland ..........81
San Rafael... ...75
Santa Rosa......88
San Francisco..78
Sacramento ......60
Berkeley ........73
Oakland ..........69
Oakland ..........91
San Jose ..........74
Tuolumne ......87
Los Angeles ....70

Admitted during the year, Men, 18--Average age, 73.66
T own
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Adkins, Jason A...........July 13, '40 San Simeon ........ 196 Cambria ..........60
Bewley, John C...........Aug.11, '40 Lodi ...~ ................256 Lodi ................73
Brittain, Wm. H .........June 14, '40 Coronado ............441 Coronado ........81
Chapman, Jesse H ......May 11, '40 East Gate............290 Los Angeles ....76
Finley, Charles H ......... Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ....83
Hiltner, Harry B.........Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco.. 73
Hinderliter, A. D,........Aug. 25, '40 Delta ..................471 Stockton ........82
Hullinger, Frank..........Aug. 26, '40 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ..........63
Landers, Charles M.....Feb. 18, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco..68
Meinhardt, John D .......July 31, '40 Starr King..........344 San Francisco..79
Preslar, Henry A .........Dec. 10, '39 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ..........79
Pritchard, Howard M... Oct. 6, '39 Phoenix ..............178 San Bernardino 79
Rice, Frederick A ......... May 20, '40 Truth ..................628 Los Ange!es......73
Ryan, Charles A........... Aug. 28, '40 Baldwin Park....660 Baldwin Park..63
Sheld<1'n, William M.....July 26, '40 Friendship ........210 San Jose ............78
Thompson, Loretto...... Dec. 10, '39 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco..60
Tyler, Fred I. ..............Aug. 4, '40 Maxwell ............288 Maxwell ..........74
Wideman, Conrad J ... Sept. 3, '39 Fraternity ..........399 San Jose ..........82
Admitted during the year, Women, 14-Average age, 71.15
Town
Age
Name
Admitted.
L odge
No.
Allen, Ida ......................Feb. 17, '40 Balder ................393 San Francisco..72
Biggart, Alice M ......... Sept. 11, '39 Gardena ..............372 Gardena ..........83
Clare, Jennie G.............Dec. 14, '39 Laurel ................245 Willows ..........71
Costain, Mattie L .........June 10, '40 San. Jose.............. 10 San J ose......,...64
Duncalf, Ada D.............Oct. 7, '39 Arbuckle ............ 182 Arbuckle ........71
Dupuy, Ruth ......:.........May 10, '40 Vallee de
France ............329 Los Angeles ....68

96

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Finley, Ada L ...............Apr. 9, '40
Fritch, Beulah M .........Sept. 7, '39
Henderson, Florence.. May 25, '40
Hiltner, Mary E ...........Aug. 17, '40
Maltby, Sarah .E ........... Dec. 16, '39
Ramsey, Hattie L .......June 23, '40
Raymond, Lillian F ...Sept. 21, '39
Williams, Margaret....Sept. 2, '39

Lodge
No.
Los Angeles ...... 42
Hollywood ........ 355
Morning Star...... 68
Fairmount ........435
Chico · . ...:.............- ! 11
Monterey ............217
Liberty ..............299
Fruitvale ........•-336

Town
Age
Los Angeles ....69
Hollywood ....77
San Francisco..60
San Francisco..69
Chico ................70
Monterey ..........79
Santa Clara.......71
Oakland ............91

Died during the year, Men, 34-Average age 78.73
Name
Age Lodge
No.
Date
Buried
Adams, Tobia W .............62 McKinley ......347 Apr. 25, '40 Decoto'
Ahrens, August..................83 East Gate......290 Dec. 8, '39 Los Angeles
Alderman, Alfred H .........78 Corinthian .... 9 Apr. 14, '40 Marysville
Bailey, Wellman J ...........91 Callayomi ....282 July 10, '40 Decoto
Carden, Wm. L .................73 Charter Rock ..410 Sept. 23, '39 Decoto
Cavender, Isaac 1.............74 Coalinga ........387 July 24, '40 Strathmore
Cartwright, Harry D .......74 Fairmount ....435 Nov. 22, '39 D ecoto
Daigle, Leo........................67 Westwood .... 501 May 15, '40 Louisiana
Ekman, Gustaf A ...............85 Porterville ....303 Jan. 14, '40 Decoto
Ferguson, Paris J .............95 Sotoyome .... 123 Sept. 4, '39 Healdsburg
Finley, Charles H .............82 Los Angeles.. 42 May 26, '40 Decoto
Fitting, Hans H ...............90 S. Bernardino 348 Apr. 11, '40 San Bernardine
Fraser, Garnet W .............66 California ...... 1 Nov. 11, '39 Decoto
Grant, George L .........•.__77 Georgetown .. 25 Feb. 3, '40 Oakland
Harpster, Harry W .........73 Tehachapi ...,..313 June 2, '40 Pomona
Hiller, Herman F .............78 Pentalpha ......_202 Feb. 21, '40 Oakland
Holland, John P ...............67 South San
Francisco ....212 Sept. 20, '39 San Frar.cisco
Hyde, Joseph H ...............91 Franklin ......:.143 Aug. 30, '40 Decoto
Johnson, Daniel F .............88 Dinuba ............385 May 28, '40 Dinuba
Kline, Ben G .....................78 Laurel ............'245 Mar. 31, '40 Willows
Klock, Aaron R. ................86 Pasadena ........272 Apr. 19, '40 Los Angeles
Knockenhaur, H erman ....67 Humboldt ...... 79 July 30, '40 Deco.to
Kuppfer, John A ...............73 Alisa! ..............321 Mar. 3, '40 Decoto
Kellogg, Irving M .............84 Chula Vista ..626 Nov. 23, '39 Decoto
Landers, Charles M .........68 Fairmount ......435 Mar. 12, ·'40 Oakland
Laufman, Robert L ..._....72 Sincerity ........132 Apr. 2, '40 Greenville
Plowman, Alfred R. ..........87 Consuelo ........325 July 18, '40 Decoto
Poulson, Edward..............79 Selma ..............277 Aug. 24, '40 Selma
Ramsey, Elijan P .............67 Roosevelt ...:....500 Oct. 6, '39 Decoto
Righetti, Robert ................87 Pentalpha ......202 Aug. 11, '40 Decoto
Scammon, Charles F .......88 Los Gatos ........292 Sept. 24, '39 Los Gatos
Smith, Wm. T ...................85 Yount ...~--·······- 12 Feb. 29, '40 Fairfield
Soulier, J oseph ..................83 Mt. Moriah.... 44 Oct. IQ, '39 San Mateo Co.
Willard, Thomas..............78 Petaluma ........180 Feb. 21, '40 Deco to
Died during the year., Women, 18-Average age, 75.72
Name
Age Lodge
No.
Date
Buried
Barnes, Mar garet..............86 Golden Gate....30 June 1, '40 Oakland
Beall, Iola H .................--65 King
Solomon's ..260 June 11, '40 Decoto
Bradley, Nannie.............-11 Oriental ........144 Nov. 14, '39 San :Mateo Co.
Damkroger, Henrietta......76 Oriental ........ 144 Oct. 13, '39 San Mateo Co.
\

97

Date
Buried '
No.
Age Lodge
Name
,
June
7,
'40
Vacaville
Pacific
............
136
Dickson, Alice....................80
Dunn, Annie C-·-········-·- -92 Oroville ........ 103 Mar. 19, '40 Oroville
Ferguson, Hattie M .........68 Silver Gate....296 July 12, '40 San Diego
·
Fitting, Alice M ...............69 San
Bernardino 348 Apr. 13, '40 San Bernardino
Halek, Albertine C....•- ....76 Victory ..........474 Jan. 7, '40 San Francisco
Hibbard, Elizabeth ....- .•..-83 Oakla~d ........ 188 Aug. 24, '40 Deco to
Knight, Frances H: ___86 California ---- 1 Dec. 23, '39 San Mateo Co.
Langworthy, Martha E ...69 San Pedro......332 Apr. 19, '40 San Francisco
Longfellow, Sarah J.-...73 Truckee ........200 June 19, '40 Decoto
McKinney, DaiBY-···--··65 Redwood
City ............168 Aug. 7, '40 Deco to
Richards, Ametia
71 Richmond ....375 Feb. 6, '40 San Mateo Co.
Sandell, Selma S..___:__74 Martinez ...... 41 Feb. 8, '40 Oakland
Snyder, Mary C ..·-·····--88 Roseville ......222 Oct. 8, '39 Roseville
Thomas, Ida....••••.•-71 Bear
Mountain .• 76 July 28, '40 San Mateo Co.

· 'Reuort of the Superintendent-Covina Home
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Herewith I am presenting my fourteenth annual report as Superintendent of the Covina Home. During the past year there were 26 admissions
(17 boys. and 9 girls) ; and 34 discharges (19 boys and 15 girls). Boys in
the Home outnumber the girls approximately two to one.
In June 13 of our children (6 boys and 7 girls) graduated from the
Covina High School and were discharged, and these are now distributed
as follows :
Working in manufacturing plants........................................2
Working in clerical and clerking .jobs.........- .......................5
Attending agricultural college..................-............................1
Attending junior eollege..........................................................1
Attending business eollege...........................................•..........2
Attending cosmetology school........................_......................2
John Morgan, the boy who last year won a national scholarship at
Harvard University, finished his first year's work with three A's and one B
has been reappointed for the scholarship for the coming year. During the
past summer he acted as supervisor of older boys at our summer camp; in
this work proved very efficient.
Notable Donation&--There has been an increasing amount of interest
by Lodges in the work of the Home and in the welfare of their particular
wards therein. Visitations at the Home during the past year have been
more numerous, the list of gifts from Lodges and individuals greater than
ever befcre.
Among the donations particularly to be noted are :
By Hollenbeck Lodge, a very large lot of canned peaches and other
fruit, following a custom of t his Lodge for many years.
By Lodges of the 87th Masonic District, numerous items of furnishings
for the living room in the Intermediate Boys' Building. This room is to
be maintained by them in memory of Frank M. Wise.
By Sam L. Warner Square Club, completion of refurnishing of living
room, Intermediate Girls' Department. This is now a beautiful home-like
room.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

By East Bay Masters' and Wardens' Association, complete set of beautiful drapes for living room, Main building.
By RKO .Compass Club, lighting system for tennis court, more than
doubling the usefulness of the court.
By Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Univet Club, Universal Trowel Club,
Columbia Square Club, Southern California Edison M":sonic ~lub, MGM
Hiram's Club Service Lodge No. 594, funds for the construction of a cement skating 'concourse in front of the .Main building, ?- major addition to
the recreational facilities of the Home.
By Southern California Edison Masonic ~tub.' complet~ re-e~uip~ent
of our hospital kitchen. This Club has made this kitchen their project smce
the construction of this building in 1926.
By DeMolay Chapters, Northern California and Nevada, funds to help
one boy who is working his way through college.
By estate of Moses Gothstein, $200.00 for purchase of radio and records, Senior Girls' building-.
By Twentieth Century-Fox Westerners' Masonic Club, an individual
Christmas present for each child. This has been their custom for several
years past.
By Masonic Lodges of Monrovia, a Christmas party for the children,
at Monrovia, with a present for each child. This has been their custom for
many years past.
By Hunting-ton Beach Lodge No. 380, a picnic with the Lodge at
Huntington Beach, with well-planned recreational program. This has been
their custom for several years past.
The Christmas and Entertainment Fund-At Christmas time particularly the thoughts of Masons turn generously toward t~e children at Covii;ia.
Contributions made at that time are put into "The Christmas and Entertamment Fund," which enables us not only to make a Christmas for the children, but to carry on with an entertainment program through~ut the yea~.
All expenses incident to maintaining the summer ca~p are paid from this
fund. This year contributions to this fund were received from 31? Lodges,
82 other Masonic organizations and 20 individuals. These are hsted elsewhere in this report.
Awards for Good Citizenship-Again for the third time we were able
this year to make awards of gold watches to the boy and the girl who were
adjudged to have made the best per~onal c~mtribution to .t~e life. of the
Home community in the way of public service and good c1t1zensh1p. The
prizes w ere donated by Albert J. Robbins, Jr., and Joseph Hartman.
Scholarship Loan . Fund-The Southern California Past Commander s'
Association has made available .to Masonic Hom.e graduates a student loan
fund which assists worthy young people who are ambitious for vo~ational
or c~llege courses and · who may be in a position to accept such aid on .a
loan basis. This will make educational opportunities on a. self-help basis
available for a number of our boys and girls from time to time.
.
Health-The past year has been marked by unusually good health
among the children. The number in hospital has a".eraged on!?' l.7o/o of
those enrolled. Epidemic conditions were not experienced. ~h~s may be
attributed to a considerable preventive medical program admm1~tered by
competent physicians, to good nursing service, abundant recreational and
play facilities, and a varied and plentiful diet of good food. Our cost for
foodstuffs served at the Home averaged 10.6 cents per meal ; on school days
our children have an allowance at the school cafeterias of ~O cents for
lunch. Children coming to the Home almost always show durmg the first

99

few months a marked gain in weight, and in general appearance of good
health.
The Summer Camp-A summer camp experience is valuable to any
child, and particularly to institutional children, whose lives are necessarily
more subject to routine than is the case with other children. In the report
of the Homes for 1913 we find Brother Hartman, who was then superintendent of both Homes, saying: "The camping trip for the children at
Balboa Beach in Orange county was positively the event of the year, not
even excepting Christmas." For twenty-eight years this camp has been
maintained on Balboa Island. In the meantime the character of the surroundings there has greatly changed. Then the camp was in an isolated
place with plenty of room ; now it is in the midst of a thickly settled summer resort city, no longer a desirable camp location. The property has
greatly increased in value, could probably be sold for $25,000.
We are in search of a new camp location which we can recommend to
the Board. It .should have twenty-five or more acres of groun d, should be
away from civilization and commercialized amusements, thus removing from
the children all resources except camp activities. It should have woods for
woodcraft, mountains for hiking, some level space for playground, a lake
or pool for swimming.
Mode of Life in the Home-There has been no important change in
policy or plan of handling children during the past year. The well-conducted private home is the model which we aim to imitate; every procedure
is measured by the test : "How does this compare with the way they would
do it in a real family?" While in some respects we cannot r eproduce private
home ways of doing, we come as near it as we can.
The grouping of children as must be done in our Home has both its
advantages and disadvantages. The noise and hurly-burly generated in a
crowd tend to rub off the fine edge of gentle manners. Quiet and restraint
can be insisted upon, but only at the cost of undue repression.
On the other hand ours is a highly competitive society, which puts our
children on their mettle. Again, co-operation and team work are certainly
bett er learned by children in group living. Our children learn to lend and
give and share and help.
Visitors often ask whether our children suffer from homesickness.
They do not, except in some cases briefly upon· first arrival. When they go
to visit relatives, sometimes they are unwisely treated to a round of entertainment which causes temporary discontent after their return. On the
whole, however, the children · in the Home are a very happy group.
Individual children, like adults, have their problems, which may look
'v ery serious to them. Our children live in groups, but must be dealt with as
individuals. The measure of our service to a child is the amount of individual attention which we can give to his needs. We can never do enough
along this line.
Community Contacts--We endeavor to make available for our older
children community contacts, not only in the Home community, but also in
the Covina community. They have of course the public schools, and their
affiliated organizations, such as athletic teams, musical organizations, etc.
During the past year we have required children of high school age to attend
some Sunday school or church in Covina. Our boys are encouraged to
belong to local Boy Scout troops; several girls are members of the local
Bethel of Job's Daughters. Through these contacts our children make
acquaintances with children outside their own . group, exchange visits with
them for meals or overnights. All of this is a part of a valuable social
education.

100

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Our Alumni-We maintain contacts with a large number of our old
boys _a nd girls, tho~e who grew up in the Home and are now out in . the
world. During the year we have had three considerable reunion meetings
of these alumni· in addition to this many of them visit the Home from time
to time or co~municate with us by letter. We give weight to their appraisals' of their experience in the Home, their estimates of what it did or
failed to do for them.
They do not think the Home was too strict or too severe with them;
often they express the opinion that they were held with too gentle a hand.
We would rather hear this criticism than its opposite; we think it is better
to be too easy than too institutional.
Our graduates have shown a remarkable ability to win their way in the
outside world, to make a living, to keep off of relief rolls, to marry and
stay married, to raise nice families of their own. A gathering of our alumni,
with their families, is an inspiring occasion ; they are a fine-looking lot of
representative American people.
JoHN M. DowNEN, Superintendent.
Report of Field W.orker-Covina
During my nine years as field worker for the Masonic Homes my tasks
have been many and varied, and have afforded a rich experience in human
relationships. In fulfilling them it has been my constant endeavor to render
a sincere service to the organization and the recipients of its philanthropy.
The following is a summary of my work for the past ye;ir:

Aged Program:
a. Investigation of applications for admission to the Home for the
Aged; or for outside relief.
b. Periodic visitations to recipients of outside relief to determine
any change in status.
Children's Program:
a. Investigation of applications for admission to the Children's
Home; or for outside relief for children in the homes of their
mothers.
b. Periodic visitations to outside aid families to determine change
in status; and to aid mothers in problems which arise in the care
of their children.
c. Investigation, placement, and supervision of children in foster
homes.
·
d. Investigation of applications for State Aid for those children in
the Covina Home who are eligible for same.
e. Visits to children's parents, relatives, Lodges, and other interested persons regarding children "in the Covina Home.
f. Vocational counselling with children about to graduate from
the Covina Home.
g. Follow-up prog~am of children discharged from the Covina
Home.
Assistance to Lodges: ,
a. In establishing Old Age Assistance.
b. Preliminary investigations, either for children or aged, to determine need for making applications.

101

During the past year 840 visits were made in the Southern District,
requiring 13,726 miles of travel. Seventeen applications were investigated for
admission to the Home for the Aged; and sixteen applications investigated
for admission to the Children's Home.

Aged R ecipients of Outside Aid: Periodic visitations were made to
twenty-six aged persons residing in their own homes. These visits had a
two-fold purpose: ( 1) to secure information concerning financial status; and
(2) to render any service which might make these aged men and women
more comfortable physically, mentally, or emotionally. · Through our efforts
five aged persons were transferred to State Old Age Assistance. One
recipient was admitted to the Veterans' Home, while continuing to accept
Masonic Aid. If it had not been for periodic visitation he would still be
benefiting from both sources; Masonic aid has been stopped.
Outside Aid to Children : We have twenty-five children receiving aid
in the homes of their mothers. The amount of aid varies according to the
circumstances in each family. We have used the budgetary standard set up
by the State Department of Social Welfare, which is adequate to provide
basic necessities. As the public program for aid to dependent children has
become more liberal, it is quite possible that our outside aid program for
children will be further decreased. Masonic relief can no longer be used
to supplement public aid to children, because rulings of the State Department forbid it.
A number of the children on outside aid have participated in a few of
the activities of the children in the Covina Home. At Christmas each child
received . Christmas gifts equal with those in the Home. During the summer
twelve outside aid children had an opportunity to spend two or three weeks
vacation at Camp Tucker, at Balboa. To most of the boys and girls this
summer outing has become a treat eagerly anticipated from one year to
the next.
'
While our relationship to outside aid families has its origin in their
economic need, considerable part of our work with them has been in helping in their personal difficulties ; to build more desirable emotional and social
adjustments so that they can get along more happily and successfully in the
_c ommunity in which they live.
·
·

a

Foster Home Care : We have at present six children in carefully selected
private homes. Occasionally it becomes necessary to remove a child from
the Covina Home because he finds himself in conflict with his environment,
thus becoming a detriment not only to himself but to the group. To help
that child solve his problem we seek a suitable private home where by individual care his twisted thinking and behavior will be turned into healthier
expression. A year ago we had occasion to remove a girl who presented a
serious problem, complicated by the parent's very bad relationship to her.
Twelve homes were investigated before one was selected for that child.
We work closely with foster mothers, visit them and the children under
their care frequently, and put forth every effort to help these children attain
their fullest development.
State Aid Program: The investigation of applications for Children's.
State Aid is a part of the field worker's · job. Preparation of an application
before submitting it to the State Department of Social Welfare requires
much time. Renewal applications must be submitted annually. The Covina
Home is receiving from the State at present $15.00 a month for each of 38
children, a total of $6840 a year. Recent changes in legislation affecting
this type of public aid will result in our filing applications for a number of
children not heretofore entitled. to such aid.

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Childreii in the Covfoa FI ome: In investigating an application for. admission of a child to the Covina Home, it is the field worker's duty to find
out the facts, including the child's family background, his cultural and
social setting, relationships within the immediate family, relatives, the
family's purpose in placing the child, his health, intelligence, school record,
personality anq emotional adjustment. This information is important to
the Home as an aid in adjusting the child in his new environment, and in
helping the Home to meet his individual needs. The field worker, having
knowledge of the child's background; is often called into conference with
the superintendent and the houseparent when difficulties arise.
Graduates and Vocational Guidance : It is a serious responsibility in our
rapidly changing world to counsel young people preparing to enter the
world. For several years our graduates have been benefited by a vocational
guidance program under the leadership of Professor J . Gustav White. Following up· Professor White's work, the field worker has assisted many of
the outgoing graduates in making their. first steps in the outside world, and
in some instances she has gone with them through their difficulties for a
year or longer after they leave the Home, until they are definitely established upon a self-help basis.
CATHERINE NOEL, Field Worker.

Visitations to Covina Home
September, 1939;
10-Granada Lodge No. 608, Alhambra.
17-Montebello Lodge No. 451, Montebello.
24-Norwalk Lodge Nq. 315, Norwalk.
October, 1939:
1-Craftsman Lodge No. 559, Los Angeles.
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291, Santa Paula.
Masonic Clubs, San Francisco Bay District Fire and P olice Districts.
8-Hollenbeck Lodge No. 355, Los Angeles.
22-S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574, San Diego.
29-Anchor Lodge No. 273, Compton.
November, 1939:
12-El Segundo Lodge No, 507, El Segundo.
Hermosa Beach Lodge No. 557, Hermosa Beach.
Redondo Beach Lodge No. 328, Redondo Beach.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272, P asadena.
19-Hollenbcck Lodge No. 319.
,
Members of 87th Masonic District, annual breakfast, Santa Monica.
26-Inglewood Lodge No. 421, Inglewood.
December, 1939:
3- 0rder of Rainb~w Girls Assembly"No. 34, Bell.
10- Alhambra Bethel of Job's Daughters, Alha.m bra.
January, 1940:
7-Sciots, Santa Monica Bay Pyramid No. 47, Santa Monica.
28-Long Beach Assembly Rainbow Girls, Lpng Beach.

103

February, 1940:
18-Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506, Los Angeles.
25-Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422, Los Angeles.
March, 1940:
3-Whittier DeMolay, Whittier.
10:-Rising Light.Lodge No. 397, Huntington Park.
17-Garden Grove Lodge No. 586, Garden Grove.
31-Florence Lodge No. 649, Los Angeles.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547, Arcadia.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293.
April, 1940:
7-Montebello Lodge No. 451, Montebello.
Malta Lodge No. 661, Los Angeles.
l~Moneta Lodge No. 405, Los Angeles.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515, Los Angeles.
21-Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482, Los Angeles.
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, Los Angeles.
28-Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles.
May, 1940 :
5-Henry Knox Lodge No. 662, Los Angeles.
-Consuelo Lodge No. 325, and Members of 112th Masonic District,
Escondido
12-Glassell Park Lodge No. 605, Los Angeles.
Garvanza Park Lodge No. 492, Los Angeles.
Glendale Lodge No. 544, Glendale.
19-West Adams Lodge No. 565, Los Angeles.
Menorah Lodge No. 623, Los Angeles.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0 . E. S., Long Beach.
26-Cahuenga Lodge No. 513, Los Angeles.
Elysian Lodge No. 418, and Members of DeMolay, Los Angeles.
June, 1940:
2-Mani.;hester Lodge No. 585, Los Angeles.
The Gardens Lodge No. 621, Los Angeles.
9-South Park Lodge No. 563, Los Angeles.
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625, Los Angeles.
Golden State Lodge No. 358, Los Angeles.
16-Masonic Officers Association, 104th District, San Bernardino.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600, Lynwood.
23-Bell Lodge No. 483, Bell.'
Monte Vi~ta Lodge No. 655, Long Beach.

Donations to Masonic Home at Covina
Alhambra Lodge No: 322- $25.00 for Student Loan fund.
Alhambra Bethel, Job's Daughters- 1 lot jams and jellies.
American Linen Company (Mr. Pollock)-1 lot nurse's uniforms.
Anchor Lodge No. 273-1 lot canned fruits, jellies; 1 box apples.
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625-1 lot jams and jellies.
Apffel, Edward A., Company-JO pounds coffee, 10 pounds cocoa.

104

PROCEEDINGS OF ':'HE

Arnold, Captain, Pasadena Lodge No. 272-1 large electric train outfit.
Baker, H. L., and Peters, Carl E.-54 cases cereals.
Barrows, H . A., Santa Ana Lodge No. 241-1 lot magazines.
Bell Lodge No. 483-1 lot jams and jellies.
Betsy Ross Chapter, 0 . E. S.-2 cases corn.
Bettina Chapter, 0. E . S. No. 399-1 lot jams and jellies.
Bietsch, E . E., Highland Park Lodge No. 382-1 box children's books.
Bingham, Carleton R.- 1 lot stamp booll;s.
·
Blume, Henry, Redlands-2 bedspreads.
Brown, Ben H .-2 boxes groceries.
Brown, Emil-Protective fences on baseball field.
Cahuenga Lodge No. 513-2 kayaks.
Causey, Mr.-50 pounds candy.
Central Junior High School, (Dr.. Herriott, Principal) Los Angeles-3 Thanksgiving baskets.
Central Wholesale and Storage Company- 5 cartons cereals.
Coachella Lodge No. 476- 30 pounds dates.
Coachella Valley Chapter, 0 . E. S. No. 36-12 jars jam.
Columbia Square Club-$50.00 for skating concourse.
Corona Lodge No. 324-100 pounds peanuts.
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559-1 lot jams, jellies, etc.
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559, Mr. Carrado and Mr. W. H. McKay-$2.00
Treat fund.
DeMolay, Associated Chapters of Northern California and Nevada-$137.70 Scholarship fund.
Dillman, Brother, of Decoto Home-1 book stamps.
Drew Carriage Company_:_! box toys and games.
Durbin, Deanna, Hollywood-I birthday cake.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422-1 lot jams, jellies, and fruitcake.
East Bay Masters' and Wardens' Association, Oakland-I set drapes
for main living room.
East Bay Matrons' Association, Oakland- 58 linen dresser scarfs.
Eastern Star Club No. 448, Temple City-1 lot jams, jellies, and
canned fruits.
Eighty-seventh Masonic District, Officers' · Association-Refurnishing
Intermediate Boys' Building: 2 divans, 24 chairs, 2 student tables, 3 light
fixtures, 1 radio, 1 child's desk and chair, 1 end table, 2 lamps, 1 ornamental
flower stand, painting walls in living room and library.
Eighty-seventh Masonic District, Officers' Association-I rug, 2 chairs,
1 bridge lamp and shade, 6 curtains for Senior Girls' Building.
Elysian Lodge No. 418-1 lot ice cream.
Emera Club, 0 . E. S. of Fallbrook- 2 handmade quilts.
Forestry and Fire Warden Dept., Los Angeles County- 2 deer carcasses.
Florence Lodge No. 649-1 lot jams and jellies.
Florence Lodge No. 649, T. H. Gray_:..l lot Christmas and greeting
cards, 5 scrap books.
Foster, L. F .-2 dolls and full wardrobes.
Frazier, W. A. and Pardee, Lyle A.-1 lot magazines and books.
Franklin Chap_ter No. 20, R. A. M. -5 gallons olives.
Gallant, Frank-100 pounds walnuts.
Gardena Lodge No. 621- 1 lot jams and jellies.
General Food Sales Company- 21 cases cereals.
Glassell Park Lodge · No. 605-1 lot jams, jellies, and canned goods :
1 lot cookies, candy, and oranges.
Glen Eyrie Chapter No. 237, 0. E . S.-1 lot marmalade.
Golden State Lodge No. 358-1 lot jams and jellies.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

105

Gothstein, Moses, Estate-$200.00 to purchase radio and phonograph
with records for same.
Greer, Mr. and Mrs.-1 box nuts.
Grigsby, Mrs. H. C.-10 Christmas gifts.
Gunther, H. W .-2 books of funny papers.
Hamilton, W. K.--6 boxes photographs of movie stars ; ·6 large· autographed photographs of stars.
Hardy, C. H.-1 lot stamps.
Hartman, Joseph-1 gold watch awarded for good citizenship prize to
a Senior boy.
Harvey, W. J .-1 Webster's Unabridged Dictionary for Senior Boys
building.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662-1 lot jams, jellies, and candy.
Hernlein, M. J.-1 case eggs, 10 gallons honey.
Hiram Club-$100 for skating concourse.
Hokanson, W . 0.-1 lot magazines.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-100 pounds potatoes 263 jars peaches 57
jars ja!11, 1 tennis r~cket, 1 bicycle, 1 lot toys, books, games, etc., 3 '1ots
magazines, 7 cases pineapple, 1 small desk and chair, 1 small pool table.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355 (John Bond)--60 pounds candy· 1 lot jams
jellies, candy, and pictures.
'
'
Hollywood Constellation, 0 . E. S.-1 10x15 rug and pad for Senior
Boys building.
Hughes, Mrs. J . -1 lot children's books.
l;Iuycke, Charles S.-1 box canned goods and groceries.
Jennings, Robert-$8.00 for furnishings, Domestic Science cottage.
Jinnistan Grotto Band, No. 76--60 pencil-box sets.
Johnston, Mr., Wilmington Lodge No. 198-1 stamp album and stamps.
J;.a Brea Lodge No. 650-3 cases mayonnaise.
Ladd, Wm. J.-1 lot underwear.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42-$100.00 for skating concourse.
Los Angeles Public Library-200 children's books.
Los Angeles Soap Company·- 2 cases soap.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529-1 lot nuts, figs, and candy; 1 Christmas package for each child and houseparent.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600-1 lot jams and jellies.
Malta Lodge No. 661-1 lot jams and jellies.
Manchester Lodge No. 585-1 lot jams and jellies.
Mario and Student Association-I subscription "Open Road for .Boys."
Martha Association of 1933, 0. E. S.-12 Christmas gifts.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-1 box Christmas gifts.
.
Marygold Club of Matrons' Association, North Sacramento-3~ dozen
. 1
embroidered dresser scarfs.
Masbnic Districts Nos. 77, 80, 116, and 117-50 pounds b eef, 100 pies,
50 rolls.
.
Matrons' Association 1927, San Francisco-$50.00; $5.00 to be awarded
to one Senior boy and $5.00 to one Senior girl rating second in citizenship
for next five years.
Matrons' Association of Southern California, 1931-1 lot janis and
·
jellies.
Mayor, Dr. Enrique-2 pair trousers, 5 suit coats, 5 ties, 5 pair socks.
McCord, Mr. and Mrs. L . D.-1 pair slacks, 1coat,17 dresses ; 1 bat and
two soft balls.
Menorah Lodge No. 623-1 box toys, 1 lot jams.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-1 lot jams and jellies.
Moneta Lodge No. 405 (George J. C. McNamara)-$5.0Q Treat. l~hd.

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Montebello Lodge No. 451-1 lot jams and jellies.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655-1 lot jams and jellies.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506---.1 lot jams and jellies, Christmas cards and
scrap books.
Nelson, G. C.-1 lot used toys.
Norton, Roscoe J.-20 stamp books, 20 large packages of stamps.
Norwalk Lodge No. 315-1 lot.jams and jellies.
One Hundred Fourth Masonic District, Officers' Association-1 lot
jams and jellies.
One Hundred Twelfth Masonic District-1 lot jams and jellies.
Ora Lee Association, 1937 Past Matrons of Santa Clara Valley-2
luncheon cloths, 12 napkins.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293-1 lot jams and jellies, 1 lot fruit and
baked beans.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gallons olives.
Ostler, C. H.-1 bicycle.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341-100 pounds walnuts.
Pardee, Lyle A., and Frazier, W. A.-1 lot magazines and books...
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-2 boxes apples, jams, jellies, .1 lot books and
magazines 1 desk and chair, 3 desk lamps.
Pasad~na Assembly of Beauceant-1 box toys, 1 lot jams and jellies.
.
Past Matrons' Club, 1927, San Francisco--$10.00 for craft and embroidery materials.
Pennsylvania Rubber Company-296 tennis balls.
Pentalpha Chapter, 0 . E. S. No. 339- Canned fruit, jams, nuts.
Peters, Carl E .--6 cartons candy bars.
Peterson's Bakery, Covina-48 loaves bread, 10 dozen sweet rolls, 43
pies; 1 dozen ginger cook1t:s.
.
. .
Playa Linda Chapter, 0 . E. S.-1 lot Jams and Jellies.
Porterville Lodge No. 303_:..50 pounds candy.
Produce Exchange of Los Angeles-1 case eggs.
R. K. 0 . Compass Club-Lighting system for tennis courts.
Rainbow Girls' Assembly No. 34-1 lot jams and jellies.
Rainbow Girls' Assembly, Long Beach- I lot jams, jellies, books and
magazines.
Rainbow Girls' Assembly, San Mateo No. 21-$14.14 to send one boy
to camp.
Rice Mrs. Eva B.--2 dozen potholders and hot mats.
Rich'ards Millicent-Stamps and postmarks for children's collections.
Camras, 'Dr. H. C.-1 used davenport and chair.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397-46 cans grapefruit, 1 lot jams, jellies, and
candy Easter eggs.
.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397 (John Richards)-! lot stamps, 2 pair
shoes 1 electric motor, 1 electric ironer, 1 girl's coat.
Robbins, Albert J.. Jr.-1 gold watch awarded for good citizenship prize
for a Senior girl.
.
.
.
Rollo, Miss Janet E.-2 guitars, 1 mandolin, music rack, and music
books.
Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89-5 boxes apples.
Universal Trowel Club-$100.00 for skating concourse.
Univet Club-$25.00 for skating concourse.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515-1 lot jams and jellies, 2 rugs; 2 dozen
tennis balls.
San Bernardino Masonic Building Association-$75.00, furnishings for
Senior Boys' building.
San ·P.atiqnal Lodge No. 452-$80.00 for class rings, Class of 1940.

, GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

107

Santa Monica Bay Pyramid Sciots No. 47-1 lot toys, puzzles, books, etc.
Save, Paul-$45.00, Student Loan; $25.00 for Domestic Science cottage.
Schelling, Eugene, Sr.-1 erector set.
Schwab Thurman Company-10 boxes tangerines.
Schwamb, Louis F.-32 vols. encyclopedias.
Searchlight Lodge No. 567-$1.25 Treat fund.
Signal Lodge No. 543-1 radio, 1 rug pad, 2 bed spreads, 2 window
shades.
South Bay Masonic Lodges (Hermosa, Redondo, El Segundo)-1 lot
jams, jellies, popcorn balls, magazines.
South Park Lodge No. 563-1 lot jams and jellies.
Southern California Edison Masonic Club-Complete re-equipment of
hospital kitchen, electric range, refrigerator, tiled sink, electric light fixture.
Also $416.43, to be used for such purpose as superintendent sees fit.
Speth, Herbert-Household articles, furniture and dishes.
Speziali, J ohn-200 pounds honey.
Stewart, C. E.-$1.00 Treat fund.
Stolz, Bob-$6.59 Treat fund.
Sworoski, Al-34 lugs peaches.
Wakeman, .Mr.-$1.00 Treat fund.
Warder, G. W.-$2.00 Treat fund.
Warner, Sam L., Square Club-Refurnishing Intermediate Girls' living
room : I rug, 1 floor lamp, 3 new lamp shades, 1 vacuum cleaner, 1 hand
vacuum cleaner, 2 chandeliers, 4 pictures, 1 lot fabric samples; $15.00 for
refinishing of bookcase and radio.
"'
Waters, G., Sims, J. P., Rice, George & Sons, Wilkins, H. A., Bellflower Lodge No. 523, and Hanson, Fred--60 tickets to Los Angeles
police show.
Webber, Dale--6 fruit cakes.
Weismeyer, Clifford-$10.00 Treat fund.
West Adams Lodge No. 565-1 lot jams and jellies.
Westerner's Club- 1 horn for speaker system, motion picture projector.
Wiley, Jimmie-Children's books and marbles.
Wilkinson, W. B.-1 ceiling light for Senior Boys' building.
Wilson, John E., Arlington Lodge No. 414-Handwoven woo.ten material for suits for two wards of Arlington Lodge.
Wilson, L. S.-1 Victor phonograph with 18 records.
Wixson, C. A.-1 lot doll furniture.
Woodward, V.l. W . (San Francisco Chronicle)-1 set, 11 vols., "Progressive Reference Library."
Entertainment and Speakers
August, 1939:
27-Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380-Annual Picnic at Huntington
Beach.
September, 1939 :
24-Westerners' Club, Twentieth Century Fox Studios, took sixty children to a baseball game in Hollywood.
October, 1939:
3-Covina Lodge No. 334, Father and Son Banquet. Dinner and entertainment for ten boys.
8-Mr. Joseph Bristline, Santa Ana, brought his string orchestra and
gave an hour's concert for the children.

108

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

November, 1939:
5-Martin Stately brought an accordion trio to entertain.
19-Jinnistan Grotto Band gave a very nice and much appreciated band
concert.
26-Inglewood Lodge No. 421, gave an hour's entertainment with a
magician, a dog show, and a musician.
December, 1939:
3-The Drill Team of the Bell Assembly of Rainbow Girls, No. 34,
gave a fine drill. .
22-Monrovia Lodge No. 308, took all the children in the Home to
Monrovia for the annual Christmas treat and entertainment.

.

January, 1940:
7-Santa Monica Bay Pyramid Sciots, No. 47, entertained with orchestra, tap dancing, juggler, and singing.
February, 1940:
18-Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506, brought two reels of motion pictures;
one, "Our Gang Comedy" picture in which Darla Hood played.
Darla Hood, 8-yearcold actress appeared in person with several
songs.
March, 1940:
IO-Rising Light Lodge No. 397, Huntington Park, furnished one hour
of entertainment with a group of young girls singing and dancing.
April, 1940:
21-Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, brought the"Hollywood Post Eureka
No. 43 band (Sons of American Legion, aged 7 to 17 years). Gave
a very ne concert.
May, 1940 :
5-Henry Knox Lodge No. 662, brought a variety program; a dog act,
a magician, a musician.
24--Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, furnished a dance orchestra for the
young people at the Masonic Home.
June, 1940:
9-Jinnistan Grotto Band gave a concert.
28---Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, furnished a dance orchestra for the
young people at the Masonic Home.

109

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Covina Home
August 1, 1939 to July 31, 1940
No.
Amt.
Lodge
Acacia .........~ ................. .438 $ 5.00
10.00
Acorn ···--··-···~·-···:........494
5.00
Alamo ········-··················122
Alexander Graham
5.00
Bell ··············-···········:595
Alexandria •................... 531
5.00
5.00
Alisa! ......~······················321
All States ........................ 593
10.00
5.00
Alpha ..........................•.•.431
Alta Loma...................... 643
10.00
Alturas ...... ~ ..................:248
5.00
Amador ........................ 65
5.00
Amity ....;.......................370
10.00
Antioch .....;.................... 175
5.00
Arcata ......•..................... 106
5.00
10.00 .
Argonne .... .: ...........~ ...... 514
Argonaut ......................461
10.00
2.50
Artesia - ························377
5.00
Atascadero ..................•.493
5.00
Athens .....•....................228
5.00
Azusa ......•.•................... 305
Bay City ., ... ~.......•.......... 526
10.00
Bear Mountain .............. 76
5.00
Bell ...........•...........•........483
2.50
Bellflower ...;............•..... 5~3
5.00
Berkeley .....•..................363
10.00
Beverly Hills ................ 528
28.00
Blackmer ..................... .442
10.00
Balder ............................393
12.50
Brawley ...,...•.......,..........402
10.00
5.00
Buckeye ···-···················195
Burlingame ..................400
10.00
7.50
Cahuenga ·-···················513
Calaveras ...................... 78
5.00
Caledonia ....•......,......... .486
5.00
Callayomi .•.................... 282
5.00
California ...................... 1
20.00
16.00
Canoga ...•......••.•............611
Capital City....................499
10.00
Carmel ..... ,....................680
5.00
10.00
Carquinez ·······-·············337
Center ............................465 ·
5.00
Charity .............. _........,.362
5.40
Charter Rock..,, ........... .410
5.00
Chowchilla .................... 485
10.00
Clay ................................ 101
10.00
Clear Lake ................... .163
5.00
· 10.00
Coalinga .:...:.....,............ 387
Compass ...................... 590
5.00
Concord .;••.;.,..•.... _•...... 117
. 5.00
2.50 .
Confidence .:..................203
Coreoran ....'.................. 490
12;50

Lodge
No.
Corinthian .................... 9
.Corona .......................... 324
Coronado -····················441
Covelo .................•..........231
Covenant ...................... 527
Crescent ........................ 45
Crockett ........................ 139
Cupertino ...................... 510
Curtis ............................. 140
Damascus ....•...........,.....648
Delta ..........- ..........,........ 471
Dimond .......••............,....603
Dinuba .......................... 385
Doric .........••....:..............276
Dos Palos .......................()81
Downey ........................220
Dunsmuir .;.................... 297
Durant ............................ 268
East Bay....................... .489
East Belt........................ 391
East Gate........................ 290
East San Diego............ 561
Eden ......;....~·..................~.! 13
El Cajon ........................ 576
El Centro....................... .'384
El Dorado ...................... 26
Elmhurst ...................... 610
El Segundo..;................. 507
E1sinore ........................289
Elysian ......................... .418
Enterprise .................... 70
Eureka .......................... 16
Evergreen .................... 259
Excelsior ...................... 160
Fairmount ....................435
Fallbrook ...................... 317
Ferndale ........................ 193
Fillmore ........................379
Fort Crook.................... 575
Fortitude ...................... 624
Francis Drake.. ~ ........... 376
Franklin ........................143
Fremont ....................... .497
Friendship .~ .................210
Fruitvale ..•..................... 336
Galt ................................267
George Washington .... 525
Golden Gate.................. 30
Golden Rule ................. .479
Gold Hill........................ 32
Guardian ........................ 596
Granada ........................ 608

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.70
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00.
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
12.50
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
15.00

110

PROCEEDI.,NGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Hammonton -------·-······.433
Hanford ........................279
Hartley ··-·--······--·-···-······199
Hawaiian ·----------··········· 21
Hemet ··-·-··········--···········615
Henry Clay.................... 95
Henry Knox..................662
HenryMorseStephens 541
Hermann ......................127
Hesperian ····----·-·········264
Highland Park ............382
Hiram ···············-·.··········· 43
Hollenbeck ........ ...........319
· Hollywood ....................335
Holtville ........................425
Honolulu ......................409
Howard .......................... 37
Humboldt ...................... 79
lllinoistown .................. 51
Indian Rock. .................638
Ione ................................ 80
Irwin, A. F. E ...............645
Jewel ..............................374
John J. Jarman ............669
Jubilee ............................604
Kauai ............................ 589
Keith ............................ 187
King David's..................209
La Brea....... ~---·-·············650
Lafayette ........................126
La Jolla.......................... 518
Lakeshore ....................551
Landmark ....................253
La Parfaite Union ........ 17
Las Palmas....................366
Laurel ............................245
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ....................371
.Lexington ...................... 104
Libertas ........................466
Liberty ..........................299
Lindsay ··-···-·--·-·············.416
Live Oak...... ~---·············· 61
Lodi ················--··-··········.256
Long Beach ..................327
Los Angeles.................. 42
Los Cerritos..................674
Los Gatos ......................292
Loyalton ·'·····--···············359
Madera ·······----··············.280
Madis9n ........................ 23
Malta ·············---··············661
Maricopa ......................434
Marin ·····-·-···-················191
Martinez ····--·················· 41

Amt.
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
20.00·
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00

15.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
14.00
25.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00

Amt.
Lodge
No.
McKinley ...•..................347
5.00
5.oo"
Mendocino ······-············179
Meridian ........................667
5.00
Midway ..........................426
5.00
Mission ......:...................169
12.50
Mizpah ..........................378
10.00
Molino ............................150
5.00
Monterey ......................217
5.00
Morgan Hill..................463
5.00
5.00
Mosaic ············-········-:...218
Mount Diablo................448
2.50
Mount Moriah .............. 44
5.00
Mount Oso....................460
10.00
Mountain View ............ 194
5.00
Natoma .......................... 64
5.00
Naval ............................,.. 87
15.00
2.50
Nevada City.'....·-·········· 13
Nicolaus ........................129
5.00
5.0()
Norwalk ········-··············315
Oak Grove......................215
5.00
Oakland ......................... 188
10.00
Ocean Park....................369
5.00
Occidental .................... 22
20.00
Olive Branch ................269
5.00
Orange Grove ..............293
10.00
Oriental .....................-.144
25.00
Orland ..........................Z65
7.50Orme, Henry ................458
5.00
5.00
Oxnard ·······-··-·············341
Pacific Grove.... ~...........331
10.00·
Patterson ......................488
5.00Palisades ......................637
5.00
Palestine ........................351
5.00
Palo Alto........................346
5.00Palos Verdes................ 389
25.00
Pasadena ......................272
25.00
Paso Robles ..................286
5.00Paul Revere ..................462
5.00
Paj aro .......~.................... 110
10.00Penrhyn ......................•.258
5.00·
Pentalpha ......................202
10.00
Petaluma ..:........•..........180
5.00
5.00
Perris ··················'········.411
Phoenix ........................ 178
10.00
15.00
Piedmont ·······-·············521
Albert Pike....................484
5.00
Plumas .......................... 60
2.50Point Firmin.................. 558
10.00
Point Loma ..........:..:....620
5.00·
10.00
Pomona ·········'····-······--.246
Presidio ........................354 : 12.50·
Progressive .................. 578
12.00
7.00·
Redlands ··············'········-300
Redondo ........................328
10.00
Redwood City ..............168 • 10.0()

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Richmond .....................,375
Rio Vista........................208
Rising Light..................397
Riverside .. _...................635
Rockridge ....................468
Roosevelt ......................500
Roseville ......................222
Russian River .............. 181
Sacramento .................. 40
Salinas ............................204
San Benito......................211
San Bernardino............308
San Diego...................... 35
San Fernando..............343
San Francisco................360
San Gabriel....:............... 546
San Gorgonio............ :...668
San J acinto....................338
San J osc.......................... 10
San Mateo......................226
San Miguel....................285
San Pedro......................332
San Simeon....................196
San ta Ana............~ .........241
Santa Barbara .............. 192
Santa Cruz.................... 38
Santa Maria ..................580
Santa Monica......... ~ ......307
Santa Rosa.................... 57
Searchlight .................. 567
Selma ..............,.............277
Security .......................... 581
Service .........................:594
Silver Gate....................296
Silver Trowel................415
Sincerity .....'................... 132
Southern California ....278
South Pasadena............ 367
So. San Francisco........212

Amt.
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00

llI

Lodge
No.
Southwest ....................283
Speranza I taliana..........219
Stanislaus .......,..............206
Stockton ........................498
• Snow Mountain........'....271
Taft ....................:........... 516
Tehama .......................... 3
Temblor .............:..........477
Temple .......................... · 14
Thousand Oaks ............478
Torrance ·····-················.447
Trinity .......................... 27
Truckee ..............:.........200
Tujunga ........................592
Tuscan ..........................261
Unity ..............................368
University ....................394
Vacaville ...................... 134
Vallejo ...................:......487
Veritas ..........................640
Vesper · .......................... 84
Victory ..........................474
Victorville ....................634
\Vashington .................. 20
Welcome ......................255
Wes tern Star ................ 2
West Gate......................335
White Pine.................... 555
Wilmington .............'.....198
Willow Glen..................676
Wilshire ........................445
Woodbridge ................ 131
Woodland .................... 156
Woodstock ....................491
Yerba Buena..................403
Yolo ........:....................... 81
Yosemite ...................... 99
Yount ............................ 12

Amt.
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
24.90
10.00
10.00
34.55
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
33.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Sacramento .................. 40

Lodges of Perfection
Amt.
Lodge
No.
$10.00
San Francisco................ 1

Amt.
$12.50

Council
No.
California ...................... 2
Pomona ........................ 21

Councils, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Coimcil
No.
$ 2.50
Valley ............................ 27
5.00

Chapter ·
No.
Coalinga .•.,........., ..•.•..•..114
Cyrus .............................. 15

Chapters, R. A. M.
Amt.
Chapter
Jio.
$ 5.00
Dixon ............................ 48
5.00
Donner .......................... 39

5.00

5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
7.50
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00

Amt.
$ 2.50

Amt.
10.00
5.00

112

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapter
No.
Doric .............................. 66
El Centro •.....................109
Ferndale ........................ 78
Grass Valley.................. 18
Hanford ........................ 74
Inglewood ·············-····.131
Keystone ...................... 56
Los Angeles.................. 33
Martinez ........................ 31
Marin ............................102
Naval ............................ 35
Nevada .......................... 6
Ontario .......................... 105

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00.
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50

Chapter
No.
Petaluma ...................... 22
Redondo ........................101
Salinas .........................204
Searchlight ....................133
Siloam ............................ 37
South Pasadena............ 112
Sutter ............................ 11
St. Helena...................... 63
Visalia ............................ 44
Washington .................. 13
Watsonville .................. 22
Wilmington ..................141
Woodland ...................... 46

Amt.
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Commandery
No.
Alhambra ...................... 48
Bakersfield .................... 39
Berkeley ........................ 42
Calvary .......................... 62
Chico .............................. 12
Eureka .......................... 35
Fresno .......................... 29
Golden West.................. 43
Marysville .................... 7
Mercedes ......................126
Mount Shasta................ 32
Mount Olivet................ 20
Naval ............................ 19
Nevada .......................... 6

Commanderies
Commandery
No.
Amt.
$15.00
Oroville ·····················-··· 5
Pasadena ...................... 31
5.00
Red Bluff....................."... 17
5.00
Crown ............................ 72
5.00
San Luis Obispo .......... 27
5.00
San Pedro ...................... 60
5.00
Santa Rosa..........:......... 14
2.50
Southern California...... 37
5.00
St. Bernard.................... 23
5.00
Ukiah .............................. 33
10.00
Vacaville ...................... 38
5.00
Ventura ........................... 18
2.50
Woodland ...................... 21
5.00
2.50

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Chapter
No.
Ascot ..............................437
Dixon .............................. 48
Ione ................................283
Livingston ....................531
Mercedes ........•............. 126
Mill Valley ....................219
Mira Monte ..................141

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
$25.00
Naval .....................,.,...... 35
10.00
Nevada .......................... 6
5.00
Pomona ........................ 76
10.00
Santa Clara........:......:....105
10.00
Temple .......................... 41
10.00
Wheatland .................... 48
5.00

Amt.
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

Miscellaneous
Ascot Auxiliary, 0 . E. S ........,..................................:.........................................$10.00
Beulah 99'ers ........................................................................................................ 2.50
Chitty, Wm. L;········-··-························-········u...........................-.................;.... 3.00
Columbia Acacia Club....:..............................................................................._.. 5.00
Denser, Al ............................................................................................................ 2.00
Eastwood, Joseph .............................................................................................. 5.00
Fresno Scottish Rite Bodies..:........................................................................... 7.50
Holland, Winifred.............:.........- ...····················································-···-········· 5.00
Karmel, I ............................................................................................................... 10.00
Metcalf, Margaret Stout..•..;••....;~................:.....---········--··--··--·-············ 5.00

113

Metcalf, Margaret S •.............•.••••,••_....._.,._...............'.:.....................- .•····-·····~:.. 5.00
Miguelito Circle ··············-······················-··········-·····-·························-··········· 5.00
Moss, Philip................................---·--····-·-···-----·---·······-····--··-·-:...:... • 1.00
National Federated Cnft....- ......_,.,..._; .........- ................- ..........:.................. 36.50
National Federated Craft No. 2................................-:.:.............-.................. 6.00
Nelson, Eric.:...- .....................:.:.........~....:........................._ ....:.•...•.....:..:.......... 2.50
Nordstrom, Richard E.........................;:......................- ..................~:.............. 25.00
Northrop, 11:. E ..............................~.......i••:~·-······•-...;.......................................... 10.00
Oakland Scottish Rite.............................., ......................:................................ 25.00
O'Reilly, John ...................................................................................................... 20.00
Peninsula Bodies Scottish Rite"!!.........................................,.......••:.................. 10.00
Queen Esther Club ............................:............................................................._ 2.50
Richards, W. D ..............................:.......:,..........1.................: ..........................-.... .. 5.00
Santa. Clara Masonic Officers•......~ .................:•..i............................................... 5.00
Santa Monica Sciots No. 47..............................................................•............... 25.00
Save, Catherine .................................................................................................... 50.00
South Bay Masonic Group..........- ................:;····.............................................. 35.00
Stevenson, E. It...,;...........;....................;.,.'...,......,.......................,. _______,_.......:.. 5.00
Vin Iott, Jacob E ........ ·-·············-~·-·····-·•··-~-~..:.................:.....-........•....:.......... 2.00
White, Ray ...................................,..................................................................... _ 2.00
Wilshire Social ·club...................................------·---~----··············-············--"······ 10.00
70th and 71st Di'strict Officers' Associati'on.......•.......................................... 12.50
87th District Officers' Association...........................................'......................•... 55.96
lOlst District Officers' Association...........................................................,.....• 20.00
39th District Officers' Cl.ub ......•....;•·-··--··:··:·:··-·'--~·-·--."·········-···'-····-··•···-·· 5.00
A

Children at Covina Home, July 31, 1940
BOYS-91
Name
Admitted
Anderson, N eil............:.Feb; 25, '37
Anderson, Ray ..............Fcb. 25, '37
Anderson, Roy..............Feb. 25, '37
Bach, Vernon ................ Nov. 17 ,'37
Baker, Kenneth ............ Aug. 3, '28
Bayer, Oscar ................ Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Roy ....................Aug. 27, '33
Birnbaum, Arthur........ Aug. 10, '36
Bowen, Alvin .........:......Oct. 2, '36
Bowen, Charles............ Oct. 2, '36
Bow~n, Richard ............Oct. 2, '36
Bowen, Robert .............. Oct. 2, '36
Breinin, Lawrence ...... Aug. 11, '29
Brown, Frank. ............... Dec. 6, '38
Brown, Robert .............. Dec. 8, '29
Brown, William............ Dec. 8, '29
Burns, Roland .............. Dec. 28, '35
Casabian, Daniel .......... Dec. 18, '38 ·
Challacombe, William ..June 22, '35
Chew, Donald................Jan. 22, '39
~thew,' William..............Jan. 22, '39
Collins, Eugene............Mar. 22, '38
Collins, Trenton .......... Mar. 22, '38
·Colvin, James................ Dec. 8, '34
Connery, Dean ..............Juty' 6, '38

' Lodge
No.
Garden Grov'e.... 586
Garden Grove.... 586
Garden Grove.... 586
Rose's Bar.......... 89
West lake ............392
Westlake ............351
Westlake ............351
Menorah ............623
Arlington ..........414
Arlington ..........414
Arlington ..........414
Arlington ......~...414
San Bernardino ..348
Midway ..............426
Los Angeles........ 42
4>s Angeles........ 42
Hollenbeck ........419
Sunset ................352
Jordan ................654
Rio Vista............208
Rio Vista............208
Solano ................229
Solano ,...............229
Bell ................... _.483
Ramona ..............457

Location A,qc
Garden Grove..10
Garden Grove.. 8
Garden Grove.. 8
Smartsville ....18
Los Angeles....15
Los Angeles.... 14
Los Angeles ....12
Los Angeles....14
Los Angeles....15
Los Angeles....17
Los Angeles....13
Los Angeles....10
San Bernardino 15
Taft ..................14
Los Angeles....14
Los Angeles....16
Los Angeles....14
Los Angeles.... 9
Los Angeles ....14
Rio Vista ........14
Rio Vista ........ 9
Vallejo ............16
Vallejo ............12
Bell .........••...•...16
Monterey Park 8

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND · LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Crawford, .Robert ........ Oct. 1, '32 Pentalpha ..........202
Davts, Robert................June 20, '37 East San Diego.. S61
Dobson, Glenn ..............June 10, '40 Torrance ............447
Dyer, John JoeL..........July 8, '40 Yorba Linda ......469
Fretheim, Richard........ Apr. 17, '39 Alta Loma.....:....643
Fuller, Harry................Oct. 6, '3S Mt. Olive ............S06
Geddes, Stanley............June 10, '39 Sequoia ..............349
Haines, Ross .........,...... Aug. 2S, '38 Granada ..............608
Hardenbrook, Donald.... Nov. 8, '38 Morning Star...... 68
Heyman, Harold.......... Nov. · 8, '39 Point Loma........620
Hill, Donald.................. Dec. 17, '39 Sequoia .............. 349
Hopkins, Hugh ............ Aug. 31, '3S Santa Paula........291
Hopkins, Paul.............. Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula........291
Hopkins, Robert.......... Aug. 31, '3S Santa Paula........291
Houtz, Lawrence..........Feb. 9, '3S Alhambra ..........322
Houtz, Walter.............. Feb. 9, '35 Alhambra ..........322
Johnston, Calvin..........July 1, '38 Lynwood ............600
Johnston, Walter........Sept. 4, '37 Lynwood· ............600
Jones, Paul ............:.......July 29, '34 Orange Grove....293
Jones, Richard ..............July 29, '34 Orange Grove....293
Kotsenburg, William..June 11, '40 La Mesa..............407
La Voie, William.......... Feb. 22, '32 Phoenix ..............178
Lord, · Richard ....•.........July 27, '29 Golden West......4SS
Lord, Robert........ _........July 27, '29 Golden West......4SS
Lundquist, Frederic ......June 29, '38 · Mt. Diablo..........448
McLean, Norman........May 9, '39 Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Mascaro, Ralph ............ Feb. 19, '37 Granada .............. 608
Mau, Charles ........,......June 17, '3S Mission ........:.....169
Maxwell, Allan ............ Mar. 4, '32 Albert Pike ........484
Munck, Theodore........ Dec. 2, '39 Hollywood ........3SS
Monroe, James ..............Jan. 21, '31 Orland ................26S
Monroe, Preston............Jan. 21, '31 Orland ......,.........26S
Munro, Donald ............Aug. 21, '36 Alta Loma..........643
Palmer, Kenneth ........Aug. 10, '38 Alex. G. BelL....S9S
Palmer, Walter ............ Aug. 10, '38 Alex. G. Bell......59S
Parker, Clarence.......... Sept. 7, '36 Natoma .............. 64
Parker, Ronald ............ Nov.. 19, '39 Lamanda Park ..627
Pearl, George..........:... Sept. 11, '38 Alpha ..................431
Peterson, Kenneth ........July 22, '36 Argonne ............ S14
Richardson, James ......June 29, '40 Orange Grove....293
Robbins, Harlan............July 1, '38 Silver Gate..........296
Rogers, Gordon ............July 9, '3S Valley Forge......S87
Sachau, William ............July 18, '3S Victory ..............474
Schelling, Eugene ........July 26, '39 South Gate..........320
Schoenefeld, Stanley...... May 19, '40 Olive Branch ......269
Schultze, Frank............ May 1, '28 Military Service..S70
Smith, Arthur•..- ......:..:.Jan. 27, '39 Presidio ..............3S4
Speziali, John ................June 26, '36 Hemet ................61S
Sweeney, Eugene..........July 17, '40 Sunnyside ..........S77
Van Kirk, Richard ...... Dec. 30, '34 Golden City........ 553
Van Kirk, Stanley......Aug. 1, '39 Golden City........SS3
Wagnon, Frank............Jan. 12, '3S Western Star...... 2
Wagnon, Joseph ............Jan. 12, '35 Western Star...... 2
Wagnon, William .- .....Jan. 12, '3S Western Star...... 2
Walline, Cleon ..,.....•....,Jan. 31, '30 Winnedumah ....287

Location Age
Los Angeles ....16
San Diego......,.lS
Torrance .•...... lS
Yorba Linda .. 6
Signal Hill...... 9
Hollywood ....18
Oakland .......... 15
Alhambra ·....•. 8
Stockton ........ 11
San Diego........l 0
Oakland .......... 7
Santa Paula.... lS
Santa Paula.... 12
Santa Paula.... 11
Alhambra ...... 14
Alhambra ...... lS
Lynwood ........ 8
Lynwood ........ 11
Orange ............ 16
Orange ............17
La Mesa,......... 9
SanBernardino 16
San Francisco.JS
San Francisco.. 17
Concord .......... 10
San Francisco.JS
Alhambra ........11
San Francisco.. 11
Los Angeles .... 15
Hollywood ....15
Orland ............17
Orland ............ 15
Signal Hill .....JI
Los Angeles_.. 8
Los Angeles.... 10
Folsom .........;..14
Pasadena ........ 8
Richmond ...... 14
San Francisco.JS
Orange ............10
San Diego........ 8
Los Angeles.... 15
San Francisco...17
Los Angeles.... 7
Tulare ............ 10
San Francisco.J6
San Francisco.JS
Hemet ............ 13
Los Angeles.... 12 '
San Francisco..12
San Francisco.. 11
Shasta ............ 12
Shasta ............ 14
Shasta ............ 13
Bishop ............ 16

Name
Admitted
Weston, Donald............Jan. 7, '40
Weston, Fred................Jan. 7, '40
Weston, James..............Jan. 7, '40
Weston, Robert ............ Feb. 1, '40
Whitman, Philip ..........July 1, '36
Wilson, John ................ Sept. 7, '36
Wilson, Robert............ Sept. 7, '36
Wilson, William ..........Aug. 17, '36
Wimberley, Raymond ..Nov. 21, '37
Witherell, Frank. .........Oct. 8, '39
Wright, Robert .... _... ~..Apr. 20, '40
Zahn, J erome................ Oct. 19, '33

lodge
No.
Jno. D. Spreckels 6S7
Jno. D. Spreckels 6S7
Jno. D. Spreckels 657
J no. D. Spreckels 6S7
Hollywood ..........3S5
Craftsman ..........559
Craftsman .......... 559
Alta Loma ...•......643
Wilmington ...... 198
South Park ........ 563
Monte Vista........65S
San Francisco....360

115
Location Age
San Diego........ 7
San Diego........ 13
San Diego ........ 10
San Diego........16
Hollywood ....13
Los Angeles ....16
Los Angeles.... 14
Signal Hill ...... 13
Wilmington .. 16
Los Angeles....14
Long Beach.... 10
San Francisco..16

Children at Covina Home, July 31, 1940
GIRLS-43
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Location Age
Aldrich, Marian............Aug. 4, '39 All States............593 Long Beach......14
Alex, Virginia ..............June 2S, '37 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles.....J5
Alexander, Arne!L...... Mar. 24, '38 Starr · King..........344 San Francisco..14
Atamian, Maxine ........Sept. 10, '34 Arlington ..........414 Los Angeles.... 16
Bayer, Carol..................Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles .... 16
Bottger, Eleanor..........Mar. 3, '36 Hermann ............ 127 San Francisco..11
Bottger, Jewel..............Mar. 3, '36 Hermann ............127 San Francisco.. 13
Bowen, Olive ................ Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ..........414 Los Angeles.... 12
Campbell, Claire ..........July 10, ··37 Henry Knox......662 Los Angeles.... 14
Campbell, Louise..........July 10, '37 Henry Knox......662 Los Angeles.... 12
Casabian, Lucy .•....... _.Dec. 18, '38 Sunset ................3S2 Los Angeles.... 12
Casabian, Ruth .............. Dec. 27, '34 Sunset ................3S2 Los Angeles.... 17
Clark, Catherine.......... Nov. 29, '39 Seaside ................ 504 Long Beach ....14
Clark, Irene................•. Nov. 29, '39 Seaside ................504 Long Beach.... 11
Clinton, Betty .............. Nov. 7, '36 Altadena ······-····678 Altadena .......J3
Clinton, Joann .............. Nov. 7, '36 Altadena ............678 Altadena ........ 17
Connery, Rose.............. Aug. 28, '3S Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park 15
Dalmeyer, Sally Ann .. Mar. 15, '36 Sunrise ..............~.522 Los Angeles....15
Dudley, Vereen ............ Mar. 4, '40 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco.. 8
Hall, Ruth ......:............. Sept. 28, '34 El Segundo ........S07 El Segundo ....... .15
Horr, Margaret..............Jan. 27, '30 Military Service.. S70 San Francisco .. 17
Johnston, Marybelle..Sept. 4, '37 Lynwood ............600 Lynwood ........ 14
Kotsenburg, Gertrude ..June 11, '40 La Mesa..............407 La Mesa..........14
La Voie, Audrey............Jan. 22, '38 Phoenix ....,......... ~78 San Bernardino 13
Lewellen, Edna ............July 18, '34 Euclid ..........,..... 5i9 Los Angeles.... lS
McCallum, Margaret.. Mar. 31, '35 Monte Vista........6SS Long Beach.... 14
Munck, Adele................ Dec. 2, '39 Hollywood ........3SS Signal Hill ...... 14
Munro, Jean..................Aug. 21, '35 Alta Loma..........643 Hollywood .... 13
Muse, Donna................ Sept. 17, '36 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ...... 11
Parbery, Alice:............. Mar. 26, '31 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco.. 16·
Parbery, Catherine...... Mar. 26, '31 Excelsior ..........•. 166 San Francisco..13
Parbery, Phyllis ... ~ ......Mar. 26, '31 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco..14
Peterson, Jacqueline......July 22, '36 Argonne ............514 San Francisco ..10
Plaster, Elizabeth ........ Sept. 23, '32 South Park. ......... S63 Los.,Angeles.... 13
Schoenefeld, May ........ May 19, '40 Olive Branch ......269 Tulare .............• 6
Smith, Winifred............Jan. 27, '39 Presidio ...............354 San Francisco.. 13
Speziali, Pearl ............:.June 26, '36 Hemet ................ 615 Hemet ............ 10
Speziali, Thelma..........June 26, '36 Hemet ................615 Hemet ............15

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Taylor, Marilyn ..........Sept. 17, '39
Urban, Helen ..........- ....May 12, '34
Wall, Eleanor................Apr. 5, '32
Whitaker, Patricia........Apr. 29, '36
Willgeroth, Eleanor....May 25, '28
Wright, Ruth................ Apr. 20, '40

Lodge
No.
Victory ..............474
Park •.............•.....449
Monrovia ............308
Henry S. Orme..458
Hawaiian ............ 21
Monte Vista ......655

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Location Age
San Francisco.. 10
San Francisco.. 17
Monrovia ........ 15
Los Angeles.... 10
Honolulu ........ 17
Long Beach ....14

Admitted to the Covina Home, August 1, 1939-July 31, 1940
BOY~17

Lodge
No.
Admitted
Name
Dobson, Glenn..............June 10, '40. Torrance ............447
Dyer, John JoeL.......,.July 8, '40 Yorba Linda......469
Heyman, Harold.......... Nov. 9, '39 Point Loma........620
Hill, Donald..................Dec. 17, '39 Sequoia ..............349
Kotsenburg, William..June 11, '40 La Mesa..............407
Munck, Theodore ........ Dec. 2, '39 Hollywood ........355
Parker, Donald............ Nov. 19, '39 Lamanda Park ..627
Richardson, James ......June 29, '40 Orange Grove....293
Schoenefeld, Stanley....May 19, '40 Olive Branch ......269
Sweeney, Eugene..........July 17, '40 Sunnyside ..........577
Van Kirk, Stanley........ Aug:. 1, '39 Golden City........553
Weston, Donald............Jan. 7, '40 Jno. D. Spreckels 657
Weston, Fred................Jan. 7, '40 Jno. D. Spreckels 657
Weston, James..............Jan. 7, '40 Jno·. D. Spreckels 657
Weston, Robert ............Jan. 7, '40 J no. D. Spreckels 657
Witherell, Frank..........Oct. 8, '40 South Park.......... 563
Wright, Robert.:.......... Apr. 20, '40 Monte Vista........655

Location Age
Torrance ..........15
Yorba Linda .. 6
San Diego........ 10
Oakland .......... 7
La Mesa.......... 9
Hollywood .... 14
Pasadena ........ 9
Orange ............ 10
Tulare ··-··...... 11
Los Angeles.... 12
San Francisco.J 1
San Diego........ 7
San Diego........ 13
San Diego........ 10
San Diego........ 16
Los Angeles.... 14
Long Beach .... 10

GIRLS-9
Admitted
Name
Aldrich, Marian........:... Aug. 4, '39
Clark, Catherine.......... Nov. 29, '39
Clark, Irene.................. Nov. 29, '39
Dudley, Vereen............Mar. 4, '40
Kotsenburg, Gertrude..June 11, '40
Munck, Adele................ Dec. 2, '39
Schoenefeld, May........ May 19, '40
Taylor, Marilyn ..........Sept.17, '39
Wright, Ruth ................ Apr. 20, '40

Lodge
No.
All States............ 593
Seaside ..............504
Seaside .....:........504
Richmond ..........375
La Mesa..............407
Hollywood ........355
Olive Branch ......269
Victory ..............474
Monte Vista........655

Location Age
Long Beach .... 14
Long Beach.... 14
Long Beach .... 11
San Francisco.. 8
La Mesa ..........14
Hollywood .... 13
Tulare ............ 6
San Francisco.JO
Long Beach .... 14 ·

.
.
Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home, July 31, 1940
Name
Lodge
No.
Dyer, Vernon............................-. Yorba Linda.....L ....................469
Ellis, Fern ......................- --··-···-..Downey.....................~ ...........-220
Ellis, Robert......................_._....:. Downey·············'·-···········•''"·~--.220
Jones, Charles................- ........:..• ~lytqe:.......................~ ..........:...A73
Jones, Harry................................ Blythe..........................,. _____473
Parker, Lowell.................... ~.....:...Lamanda Park.........,............_627

Date Began
July 25, '40
Aug. 18, '39
June 21, '37
Aug. 1, '36
Aug. 1, '36
Feb. 5, '40

117

Departed During the Year, August 1, 1939--July 31, 1940
BOYS-19
Name
Admitted
Blair, James........................ Sept. 7, '38
Bounds, Edward................Sept. 14, '31
Burgen, Fred......................Aug. 23, '32
.Cuniberti, Remo................ Nov. 8, '28
Daley, William.................... Oct. 15, '37
Dyer, Vernon .................... Nov. 9, '39
Lidell, Ernest .................... Aug. 29, '31
Lord, Edmund....................July 27, '29
Lounsbury, Harold............Jan. 8, '35
Maxwell, Martin ................ Mar. 4, '32
Morgan, John W ...............Mar. 2, '31
Myers, Harvey..................Aug. 23, '32
Nelson, Alva Lee................ Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Calvin ....................Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Wesley.................. Oct. 23, '30
Richards, Donald .............. Apr: 20, '35
Rowland, George.............. Aug. 1, '33
Rowland, J ames................ Aug. . 1, '33
Short, Ralph ...................... Aug. 4, '28

Age When
Departed
Discharged
Sept 12, '39............................
18
June 18, '40............................
18
June 14, '40............................
20
Aug. 2, '39............................
19
Sept. 12, '39......•.....................
13
July 24, '40............................
14
June 25, '40............................
19
Aug. 2, '39............................
19
17
July 31, '40.......................... ..
17
June 16, '40............................
18
Sept. 14, '39............................
16
July 13, '40............:...............
18
Aug. 3, '39.......................;....
Feb. 2, '40............................
15
11
Feb. 2, '40............................
13
June 12, '40............................
16
June 15, '40............................
12
Sept. 2, '39............................
18
June 16, '40.................:.......•.•

GIRLS-15
Name
Admitted
Bayer, Blanche ..................Aug. 27, '35
Benjamin, Gloria ..............May 9, '30
Casabian, Verna................Dec. 27, '34
Clay, Billie.......................... Feb. 12, '33
Ellis, Fern.......................... Sept. 27, '34
FaJkenrath, Frances.....~ ....Jan. 21, '32
Haas, Marian ...................... Dec. 30, '33
Holland, Barbara.............. Aug. 24, '37
Jordan, Dorothy................May 28, '27
Nelson, Ina May................ Oct. 23, '30
Richards, Betty.................. Apr. 20, '35
Shaw, Clair Adele..............June 29, '38
Shaw, Nadine ....................June 29, '38
Speziali, J udith ..................J une 26, '36
Willgeroth, Wilhelmina....May 25, '28

Age When
Departed
Discharged
June 16, '40............................
18
June 14, '40............................
18
Sept. 3, 'J9............................
19
July 22, '40.:..........................
17
14
Aug. 18, '39............................
June 16, '40............................
16
June 16, '40.................,..........
17
Sept. 12, '39............................
12
June 15, '40............................
17
Feb. 2, '40............................
14
June 14, '40............................
17
Sept. 3, '39............................
11
Sept. 3, '39............................
13
July 7, '40...........:................
18
July 6, '40............................
18

118

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
To the M.". W:. Grand Lod,ge of California:

Your board herewith presents its eighth annual report, being for the
period between July 31, 1939, and July 31, 1940.
The board is now constituted as follows:
1940
1941
Ernest G. Bashor
Reynold E. Blight
Arthur S. Crites
Jos. L. Shell
Louis C. Drapeau
Harry F. White
J. T. Fraser
John F. Pullen
Ira D. Wheeler
Rollie W. Miller

1942
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Edmund A. Lockett
Robert B. Gaylord
T. M. Wright
Frank M. Smith

The officers of the board are:
Frank M. Smith, Chairman
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Vice Chairman
Robert B. Gaylord, Vice Chairman Wm. P. Filmer, Treasurer
Reynold E. Blight, Secretary
Our report, this year, covers the period between July 31, 1939, and July
31, 1940-dates that in themselves mean little, other than that of a calendared
series of days bearing upon a cycle of benevolence extended by members
of a free and accepted organization.
Yet in the history of the world, the period covered by this report will
be reco;ded as the most stirring and important of all time. In the interim
since our last report, time-honored institutions have fallen; rights and privileges recognized as the birthrights of individuals throughout the ~orld have
been denied; free speech and free press have been abrogated by ammal force
and power · the common assemblage of persons dedicating their efforts toward prog~ams of human betterment have been broken up, and in their
place councils of destruction h~ve met. ~ife, through?u.t. the_ lands formerly
possessing culture and the higher attainments of c1v1hzat10n, are forces,
which, paradoxically, are using the products of modern progress to destroy
the things for which men have consistently fought and sacrificed.
The pitiable spectacle of men, women, and children, harried and agonized by organized arrogance is a thing which shocks men's souls! Homeless,
abandoned hungry of body and soul, bewildered by events over which they
had no co~trol countless thousands, at this moment, are praying for the
blessings of no;mality, which we, here, are enjoying as a priceless privilege.
Old men and women innocent babes, eager and inquiring youth, alt
have felt the imprint of b;utality's heel and have questioned, wi~hou~ coh_erent answer. Devoid of hope, bereft of home and loved ones, brmsed m mmd
and body, these refugees from lust and assumption "".ill remain f_or all time
in the pages of history as evidence of the ghastly and mhuman pnce exacted
by the enemies of democratic governments.
Program for Year
Here in our own fair land, free of the compulsions of dictatorship, 01;r
work of humanity has gone forward; gone forward on a scale not wh?lly ~n
keeping with the need and the aspirations of the program, but which,, m
contrast with other · countries and sections, has been most heartwarming
and encouraging to the members of the board.

119

Realizing the many calls made upon the brethren by other meritorious
programs, which demanded their consideration and openhandedness, the
board, during the period just closed, made no excessive demands nor importuned a single member to make other than a purely free-will contribution
to the program. Continued belief and confidence in the educational program
instituted several ·years past, caused the board to limit its efforts to this
method and, despite the decrease which this year will show, our assurance
in such a program has not been impaired nor shaken in the slightest. We
believe, rather, that the value of such educational procedure has been reaffirmed in the face of continued unemployment, in the uncertainty of the
times, and in view of other worthwhile and bona fide demands made upon
our brethren, wl:io are also, it must be remembered, members and .affiliates
of other fraternal and charitable groups, each exacting its deserved quota of
attention and care.
At the outset of the year, the board, in keeping with established precedent, again requested the reappointment, wherever possible, of former Endowment Fund chairmen. Where this was done each constituent Lodge
gained the experience of past years, and the results obtained offer evidence
of the wisdom of such reappointments.
Masonry makes no man perfect. It merely indicates one road by which
a man may travel toward the goal of spiritual perfection more easily and
with more help than by other roads. It has no motive power to drive men
over that road; it but smoothes the path and points the way. The travel
thereon is strictly up to the individual brother and, in the opinion of the
board, the roadmarks to charity are better seen and observed under the
guidance of competent roadmasters, who have served their novitiate and
are qualified to show the way.
Correspondence and Literature
The board makes no exclusive claim to the achievements of the Endowment Fund program for the year. Serving merely as a clearing house for
Masters, Secretaries, Endowment chairmen and individual brethren, the board
boasts simply of its interest in, and coordination with the various Lodges
participating in the program. In evidence of the widespread interest in the
welfare of our homes 1500 pieces of correspondence were received by the
board, and 17,518 letters were forwarded to Lodges and individuals concerning home matters. Included in the year's board correspondence were Christmas letters to all Lodges, announcements of the homes endowment program
for the year to new Masters, regular monthly correspondence with secretaries; special letters to individuals regarding bequests, and other matters
concerning the program, and general information imparted to Lodge officials, Home guests and interested brethren.
Bearing in mind the need for economy for the year, the board curtailed
the preparation and printing of new pamphlets and other printed material,
and urged the Secretaries and Endowment chairmen to assist in distributing
the printed material already on hand. The extent of this distribution
amounted to 109,812 pieces of literature, divided into 28 different subjects
dealing with the Homes at Decoto and Covina. They covered every phase
of the program and offered to the brethren the Masonic fact that happiness
to others costs so little and pays such great dividends in contentment and
security for our elders, and promise and advantages for our youngsters.
The board especially requests. all Lodge officials to seek a wider and
more complete distribution of these informative pamphlets among the brethren, in order that· the message of the Homes be carried to every craftsman

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in the jurisdiction. \Ve sincerely believe such coverage will result in a new,
or renewed, interest in the work of the homes, with a corresponding surge
of awakened concern in the lives and welfare of our Home guests.

· 1940 Disbursements

120

Total Assets of Fund
The total assets of the Permanent Endowment Fund, which includes
the regular fund and the Luckenbach Fund, show the following increase
for the fiscal year:
Amount of fund, July 31, 1940.......................................... $1,228,584.89
Amount of fund, July 31, 1939•......................................... 1,170,181.88
· Increase during the current year_...............................;,

58,403.01

Accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests .................................................... $63,430.74
Securities by donations and bequests...................................... 3,273.91
1937 bequests transferred from Homes (property)............ 4,330.00
Total. ........................................ :··································-·······-$71,034.65
Less net loss on securities sold and redeemed ...................... 12,631.64
Net increase as above ........................................................$58,403.01
The Endowment Fund income earned during the fiscal year and transferred to the Masonic Homes General Fund amounted to $38,458.99.
The following funds, which will eventually become part of the Endowment Fund, are recorded in the Masonic Homes General Fund records in
order to simplify the payments on the annuity contracts which each .fund
carries. A full report on these funds is included in the report on the Masonic Homes General Fund.
Charles N. Flint trust ............................................ ,................... $106,858.62
Charles N. Flint annuity ....................................................... -. 77,454.70
Charles N. Flint annuity.......................................................... 26,633.47
George H. and Harriet C. Wadleigh annuity.................... 21,646.23
Harriet C. Wadleigh endowment annuity............................ 28,857.13
Total.. ..................................................................................$26.1,450.15
Appended to this report will be found the report of the auditors authorized by the Finance Committee to audit the accounts of the Permanent ·
Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes, together with list of the Lodges,
membership and amounts contributed by each constituent Lodge.
The grand total of the Endowment -Fund as of July 31, 1940, was
$1,228;584.89.
Since July 31, 1940, a total of $9,131.11 has been received:
An appropriation of $6000 was made at the last annual communication
for the expenses of your Endowment Board, and the whole of the said
sum has been expended, as shown by the following account:
1940 Receipts
Balance shown by 1939 report ........... :.............. ,.....................$ 59.70
Appropriation of 1939 Grand Lodge.................... .':.. ,...........- 6,000.00
Tota.1....................................................................................-

121

Printing and supplies -·············-········•;.........•...........'........•.....$ 3,063.19
Postage -········································:......'. ........... :...... ~ .................. . 704.26
Expense board meetings ........................................................ 843.15
Stenographic and clerical help ............................................. . 1,400.00
Total checks drawn from October 4, 1939, to August
1, 1940, as per vouchers ........................................... .

6,010.60

Cash in bank as of August 1, 1940......................... ~·················: ........$

49.10

In order that your board may function during the ensuing year, we
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
"Resolved, that the sum of six thousand dollars be and is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board for its expenses for the year ending July 31
1941."
'
The total amount of $26,720.51 received for the year came through 382
constituent Lodges and represented a total of 6,357 individual contributors.
Number of Lodges failing to make a report, 200. Percentage of donors in
comparison with total membership, 5.02. Last year's percentage 5.20.
The following table illustrates the various amounts contributed and
the number of donors making such contributions:
3 contributed ....................$
.25
5 contributed ·....................$ 11.00
123
..........................
.50
.......................... 12.00
7
8
..........................
.75
1
........................ 13.00
"
"
2246
..........................
14
1.00
. ......................... 15.00
"
52
.........................
1.50
1
. .........................
16.00
"
1583
. .......................
2.00
35
20.00
••••o••••••••••••••
312
........................
2.50
81
. ................... . . 25.00
"
380
.........................
1
3.00
.........................
30.00
4
.........................
3.50
14
....................... 35.00
"
"
70
.....................
1
.................... 36.00
4.00
"
"
1
4.50
1
....................... 38.00
"
"
1059
.....................
1
5.00
...................... 40.00
"
"
23
.......................
14
..................... 50.00
6.00
"
"
6
....,, ..................
4
7.00
..................... 100.00
"
l
......................
1
1.00
...................... 200.00
7
..................... 8.00
2
. ...................... 500.00
"
4
......................
9.00
1
•••n•••u••••• •• ••• 1000.00
"
292
···················· 10.00

..

•• • •••• •o ooo•o•Ho•e

The board acknowledges with real gratitude the following very generous donations:
Wm. D. Rosenberger, $1.,000.00, Ontario Lodge No. 301; Hubert Eaton
$500.00, Southern California Lodge No. 278; Robert B. Gaylord, Jr., $500.oo:
Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
The Lodges of the 87th district, honoring their departed and beloved
fellow member, Frank Marvin Wise; set up all the contributions from that
·district into the "Frank M. Wise Memorial Fund."
Home Visitations

$6,059.70

Again, as in the years past, the same names which have appeared year
after year on the jurisdiction's Scroll of Honor are in evidence again.

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In good times or bad, these same brethren have offered their share

:vhet~er it be large or small, to the major charity of the jurisdiction, and
m domg so have clearly shown the way for others to follow. Can it be
said that they possess more heart than others? Can it be said that to them
is given a broader vision and appreciation of the program than is accorded
the average member? Or can it be said simply that they remembered
where others, with equally good intentions, postponed and delayed until
too late? The board likes to think this is so, and offers as a remedy for
such forgetfulness a visit to the Homes, where the work being accom~lished will bring a new spirit of response from those not now participating
m the program.
The board sincerely believes that the vast majority of those contributing regularly are also regular visitors at the Homes at Decoto and Covina.
There they see our Home guests, young and old, in an environment as
closely resembling a home as it is possible for the jurisdiction to provide.
There, they may mingle with our elder guests, watch them at work
and at play, and observe the care, the kindliness and the deep concern
with which they are encompassed. A cheerful word of greeting a firm and
friendly hand-clasp, and inquiry regarding their lives and outl~ok are the
keys which open the locks of neighborly contact, and are not only ~egarded
as acts of signal importance by our Home guests at Decoto but are the
friendly and cordial deeds demanded of conscious Masonry.
A vi1;it to the Home at Covina is a visit to a large family circle, where
foster-fathers and mothers serve in a capacity approximating as nearly as
humanly possible the real parentage denied our young wards by the will of
Divine Providence; The love and care shown our youngsters; the total lack
of strict and forbidding institutionalism, the open affection exhibited by
the children for their foster-parents, the cheerfulness with which they
perform their allotted chores; the ed~cational and money system in effect
at the Home ; the shouts of childish glee at games and at play; these and
a hundred other details strike the visitor with .singular force, and make
him feel proud of the fact that he is a part-a necessary and vital partof this magnificent and heart-warming enterprise.
Yes, if your board members could have dictatorial powers delegated
to them, their first (and only) act of power would be to cause every craftsman in California, whatever his standing or calling, to pay a visit to our
Homes .at Decoto and Covina. Our dictum would be : "See for yourselve.s,
and seemg, know our Homes for what they are; a haven of security and
peace for the aged; a shelter and a pledge for the future for our children;
an institution American in concept and principle. See your Homes and
realize with pride that Freemasons are Builders, and that our generation
has not been bankrupt of accomplishment. Become a part of this work,
help build better boys and girls, and assist in the care and protection which
your Grand Lodge is desirous of extending to those in the sunset of their
liv&S."
Bequests
Testamentary gifts to the fund this year totaled $63,659.79 as follows:
Fussier estate ........'................$1,727.83
T. W. Adams estate.............. 136.80
Tonningston estate .............. 5,601.20
Yarneberg estate .................. 268.00
Emeline Wilson estate ........
33.22
Albert E. and Catherine
Richards estate ................ 5,002.04

Jenning Downing estate .... 5,739.30
Sarah Phillips ........................ 199.78
S. ]. Daley estate .................. 800.50
Lulu Newman estate..........
84.19
Bertha A. Benton estate...... 396.70
M. Raabe estate .................... 500.00
Horace A. Crocker estate.... 350.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hans Peter Jen sen estate....
8.32
Neil A. Skow estate.............. 500.00
Frances Ellen Ryder estate 500.00
Nora Lee Hickey estate ...... 3,057.20
David A. Smith estate.......... 2,500.00
Frank Farley estate .............. 1,000.00
Matheson estate .................... 10,000.00
Marybelle Johnston estate..
33.00

123

Mathias Johnson estate........ 5,000.00
Frederick C. Keck estate...... 1,121.18
Hendry estate ........................ 7,600.00
Downing estate ....................
70.00
Benson estate ........................ 2,113.53
Sale of Masonic Temple
Stock .................................. 9,317.00

These gifts go into the Permanent Endowment Fund and will accomplish much good now and in the years to come. The name of each donor
w~ll rema~n permanently on the rolls of the jurisdiction, and the proceeds
will be wisely and economically expended in carrying out the wishes of
the benefactor.
Each year attorney members of the craft have interested themselves
in supplying information regarding the Homes to clients preparing wills
and bequests, and the results of such interest is becoming more and more
apparent. The board is most grateful to members of the legal profession
for their cooperation with the program and urges their continued and active
support.
Now here in the field of charity does a more extensive, noble, and
worth-while venture offer itself, than the Homes Endowment Fund of
California. It is the hope of the board that brethren throughout the jurisdiction will continue to regard this phase of Masonry as a road to practical
and spiritual charity, and to .remember the lasting good which emanates
from a testamentary gift.
Work of Grand Master and Officials
It is the happy privilege of the board to record the fact that the most
indefatigable worker for the Homes Endowment program this year was
our Grand Master. Brother Wm. B. Ogden, through long association with
the program and with a heart attuned to the need and the worth of our
program of benevolence, worked in harness throughout the year and rendered Trojan service to the work closest to his heart. Practically every
talk he made to constituent Lodges contained a stirring and sincere appeal
to craftsmen to remember and to cherish the great work being carried out
by the Grand Lodge for the betterment and security of our Home guests.
His work of education will be long remembered, and your board considers
it a privilege to record officially his efforts and his unquestioned contribution to the program for the year.
As usual the Masters, Secretaries, and Home Endowment chairmen
took the lead in their respective Lodges, and much value to the program
came through their joint efforts. Secretaries were in constant touch with
the board and assisted the Home Endowment chairmen in distributing
pamphlets and keeping the program before the brethren. The board is duly
appreciative of all Lodge officials' efforts, and urges a continuation of the
unselfish devotion shown the program during the past year.
The board would like again to suggest to incoming Masters the need
of reappointing, if possible, the old Home Endowment chairmen, who
have functioned so ably and efficiently in the past. Their work is of educational character, and both the Lodges a!!d its members will gain in the program by continuing their services. The Board again offers its whole-hearted
cooperation with Lodge officials and chairmen in carrying out the necessary
details for the coming year and expresses its sincere appreciation for past
efforts and accomplishments.

124

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Coming Year
· What of the future?
Today, and during many years past, men have spoken often of changing and even abolishing the Constitution. But which Mason would think
of changing so much as a single comma in the great Bill of Human Rights
and Faith? Who, among us, would add or detract one syllable from such
inspiring words as, " ... we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all
men are created equal."
Some listen to the alluring voice of the foreign agitator, with his
promises of Utopian conditions that have long ago proven visionary and
impossible of realization. These foreign in heart know little of our own
history and nothing at all of our ideals. They look upon government as a
thing to be feared, as a thing to be hated, as an instrumentality in the
hands of rulers and privileged <;:lasses that takes men and money from the
people, giving them nothing in return. These things may be true of other
governments of the world, BUT NOT OF OURS!
The founders of our Constitution believed in a living God, as we do.
The founders of our country believed in compassion to the weak and the
ill, as we do. The fathers of our country believed in freedom and equality
of all men, as we do. The founders of our nation believed in truth, in
decency, and in humanity, as we do.
Therefore, we as Masons realize that in paying the duty we owe to
our God, to our country, and to our neighbors, we also pay the duty we
owe to ourselves as citizens ·a nd as Masons with heads up and eyes forward,
and with re-awakened courage and fortitude for the days to come.
Realizing this there can be no question as to the outcome of our dedicated services to our country, to Masonry, and to those dependent upon
our care and protection, because THIS IS AMERICANISM.
Fraternally submitted,
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD,
WM. RHODES HERVEY
FRANK M. SMITH
WILLIAM P. FILMER
ROBERT B. GAYLORD
DR. ERNEST G. BASHOR
ARTHUR

s. CRITES

REYNOLD E. BLIGHT
Lours

c. DRAPEAU

J. T. FRASER

EDMUND A. LocKETT

ROLLIE W . MILLER

JoHN F. PULLEN

Jos. L. SHELL

IRA D. WHEELER

HARRY F. WHITE

T . M. WRIGHT

Report adopted except the request for an appropriation,
which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

125

Report of Contributions to Endowment Fund
MemberResi1936
1937
1938
1939
1940 dents
ship
No.
Name
$118.50 $
2
1 California............................ 616 $116.00 $ 67.00 $
19.00
34.00
29.50
19.50
21.00 3
2 Western Star..................... 103
3 Tehama.........·-····-·····-······· 450
93.50
110.50
264.58 135.50 2
5 Benicia................................. 141
8 Tuolumne.....................·-···· 204
2
24.50
14.50
9 Corinthian.................- ........ 281
21.00
58.00
30.00
74.50
36.00 2
10 San Jose............................• 449
81.50
66.46
26.00
53.00
57.00 4
12 Yount..................................• 267
15.00
5
13 Nevada.................•...•.....·-··· 139
1
9.50
14 Temple................................. 108
12.50
6.00
5.00
2.00
16 Eureka..........................~.....• 196
8.50
17.00
12.00
5.50
4.50
17 La Parfaite Union............. 145
30.00
18 Mountain Shade..............• 37
106.75
195.33
32.50
138.58 101.04
19 San Joaquin......................• 562
83.50
71.50
47.00
143.00 104.50 1
20 Washington......................... 515
21 Hawaiian...·-················-···- 338 305.50 392.00 453.50 434.00 418.54 5
84.50
62.50
11.00
124.50 5
22 Occidental......................_ .• 780
20.00
12.00
15.00
24.00
27.85
23 Madison.............,................. 184
44.00
15.50
21.50 3
24 Mariposa·-·-······················· 154
3
7.50
25 Georgetown.........·-·-·-···- 49
37.00
22.20
5.00
28.00
26 El Dorado......................- .• 182
15.00
15.00
15.00
1
27 Trinity....................•·-····-·- 92
98.50
14.00
46.50
33.50 3
8.00
30 Golden Gate...·-··········-···- 667
32 Goid Hi!L..·-··········-········ 93
13.00
31.00
33 Ophir..................................• 38
35.50
124.50
171.50 152.52 1
35 San Diego...·-····-········-- 557
12.50
1
22.04
17.00
37 Howard..........-····-····--- 193
13.50 333.50 2
7.50
18.50
17.50
38 Santa Cruz.........·-··········-· 321
64.50 1
71.50
55.00
32.50
40 Sacramento............•..·-···-· 530
21.50
21.00
39.05 2
17.00
41 Martinez......................·-···- 217
152.00 188.50 4
213.00 252.17
42 Los Angeles.........·-····-··- 689
43 Hiram..........-··········-·········· 47
15.00
28.00 7
87.50
44 Mount Moriah...·- ··········- 405
13.50
45 Crescent............................... 136
1
46 Texas...·-················-·······;.._ 39
51.00 1
32.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
50 Forbestown ..:·-···············-· 59
51 Illinoistown.......................- 71
2
55 Suisun................•.....- .......... 134
56 Volcano...........................-. 31
62.67 1
57 Santa Rosa.........·-··········-· 370
26.17 2
53.50
141.00
42.60
47.45
58 Union......................•..,........ 516
1
59 Gravel Range....·-········-··· 36
61.25
27.50
43.50
71.00
60 Plumas................-····-···-- 99
518.25 985.00 7
931
574.25 447.00
409.00
61 Live Oak......................•_
36.00 1
65.00
52.50
48.50
77.00
64 Natoma................•••.-~ 120
119.00
41.00
70.00
65 Amador............................- .. 71
25.00
25.00
25.00
66 Forest...........·-··-··········-···- 46
65.05 2
92.68
47.00
68 Morning Star...........•........ 428
2
70 Enterprise.....................·-··· 237
1
2.00
7.00
1.00
5.50
76 Bear Mountain.........·-···- 72
78 Calaveras.............-·-····-·-- 80

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MemberResiNo.
Name
ship
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940 dents
79 Humboldt.....................--·· 336
5.00
12.00
4.75
25.30
6.60 1
80 Ione..........................-~.•._.:. 72
S.00 1
81 Yolo...................;........_ ....._ S7
84 Vesper.........................____ 167
2S.OO
16.00 1
87 Na'\'al...............,_................. 609
370.00 213.00
77.SO 171.3S
2.SO 3
89 Rose's Bar.......................... 3S
91 North Star......................... 52
6.00
93 St. Helena.......................... 84
10.00
24.23
2.10
3.00
9S Henry Clay........................ S2
5.00
98 Hornitos..........- .................. 87
25.00
99 Yosemlte....- ........................ 243
94.SO
49.S3
S0.00 167.00
72.2S 3
101 Clay...................................... 65
99.00
49.50
37.00
33.00 1
103 Oroville... _ .......................... 243
47.SO
10.00
3.00 2
104 Lexingtrin............................ 186
50.00
70.00
65.00
70.00
70.00
106 Ar~ ...........- .•.............•.... 185
17.00
13.00
2S.OO
20.00
110 Pajaro............................_ ... 232
10.00
21.00
1l1 Chico...........................- ..••.• 324
50.00
112 Summit.......~...................._
41
4.00
24.00
113 Eden....._ ...........................:... 202
57.50
26.53 1
117 Concord...................-·-···- 234
29.00
14.50 2
119 Clinton..,..............................
2.00
120 Fidelity............................_... 568
142.50 125.50
10.00
30.00
122 Alamo.....- ........................... 137
37.50
35.00
12.50
15.00
lS.50
123 Sotoyome............................. 150
2
124 Table Mountain................. 89
126 Lafayette............................. 181
4
127 Hermann............................ 208
96.00
86.00
86.00
78.40
71.00 3
128 Visalia..............................._ 301
28.00
74.2S
23.00
129 Nicolaus............................... 93
11.00
131 Woodbridge........................ 106
132 Sincerity............................... 91
27.50
2
134 Vacaville............................- lSO
S.00
1
135 Valley................................... 69
1
136 Pacific..................................· 646
47.50
40.00
10.00
2
139 Crockett............................... 631
33.00
97.00
43.50
S4.00
45.50 s
140 Curtis..............................._._ 71
16.00
19.00
9.00
6.00
1
141 Grafton...............................: 64
23.SO
lS.00
lS.SO
9.SO
143 Franklin.,.._......................... 97
96.00
41.00
13.00
30.00
30.00 1
144 Oriental... ~-----······--············· 431 . 9S.OO 220.00
40.00
180.00 122.00 5
14S Vitruvius.............................. 92
3.00
S.00
1
146 Abell..................................... 153
1
147 Eel River............................. 173
3.00
149 Lassen.................................. 160
22.SO
7.SO
.1
150 Molino...........,...................... 117
11.50
53.00
31.00
43.00
2.00
156 Woodland.....- ..................... 254
83.57
26.48
161 Keystone................... _..•...:.. 24
164 Harmony............................. 13
166 Excelsior.........................._ 520 209.00 257.50
7.50
25.00 197.50 s
167 Alameda............................... 130
101.50
71.50
84.00
88.00
77.00
168 Redwood City.......- .......... 284
65.00
16.00
2S.OO
20.00 3
169 Mission...................- ...- 723
137.00 137.00 134.50
4
173 Elk Grove..................___ lOS
32.00 125.50
211.00
174 Drytown..............,................ 31
5.00
5.00
4.00

Membership 1936
No.
Name
9.00
17S Antioch................._.............. 14S
178 Phoenix................................ 464
91.50
179 Mendocino........................... 120
180 Petaluma.............................. 269
7.00
181 Russian River.................... 98
3.SO
182 Arbuckle.............................. 73
183 Clear Lake................·-···-- 38
184 Sierra Valley..................... 33
18S Claiborne............................. Sl
6.4S
186 Evening Star.'..................... 41
187 Keith.....-.............................. lSS
188 Oakland................:.............. 787 124.00
190 Northern Light.................. 80
10.00
191 Marin.........·.......................... 443
70.00
192 Santa Barbara................... 230
193 Ferndale............................... 135
194 Mountain View..···-···-··--- 177
3.50
195 Buckeye................................ 102
196 San Simeon......................... 94
77.SO
198 Wilmington......................... 282
49.00
199 Hartley.........,....................... 159
7.00
200 Truckee................................ 112
201 Silveyville........................._ 133
202 Pentalpha...............-···-··- 568 198.50
203 Confidence........................... 27
204 Salinas............................__ 30S
5.00
205 Olivet...............- ...·-···-···- 104
9.SO
206 Stanislaus............................ 343
33.50
207 Anaheim.............................. 25S
208 Rio Vista............................ 94 102.00
209 King David's...................... 310 227.00
210 Friendship............................ S26
33.50
211 San Benito.......................... 134 106.00
212 s. San Francisco................ 245
214 San Buenaventura............ 262
37.00
21S Oak Grove.......................... 542
70.00
216 Doric.,.................................. 495
217 Monterey............................. 136
218 Mos.aic.................................. 126
30.SO
219 Speranza Italiana.............. 372 130.SS
220 Downey................................ 196
26.50
221 Inyo.,........ _ ...............,.......... 71
222 Roseville.............................. 272
224 Bakersfield.......................... 420
15.SO
99.00
225 Brooklyn.............................. S48
226 San Mateo.......................... 227
5S.50
26.SO
228 Athens.................................. 112
9S.OO
229 Solano...............::................. 420
10.00
230 North Butte...................._, 117
46
231 Covelo.............:.:.:;............_
12.SO
232 Janesville............................. 71

127

1937
8.00
77.08

1938
34.00

1939
' 24.13
76.SO

18.00

10.00

30.00

s.so

Resi1940 dents
20.SO 1
66.9S 4
3
42.00 1
7.SO

9.00

s.so
20.00

213.00
14.00
lSS.00
7.00

143.6S
7.00
21.64
4.00
35.SO

63.00
100.00

67.50
55.00

1.00
18S.SO
33.55
3.50
4.00

137.50

692.50 4
1
64.00 3
25.50

33.00
159.50
3
2

107.00

161.60
5.00

211.00

194.00

s

8.SO
46.00
29.SO
221.50
60.00
39.SO
41.00
44.SO

8.SO
165.6S
107.00
64.00
S.00
26.00

1.00
20.00
41.SO
10725
124.50
S0.00
89.00
31.2S
102.SO

S0.00
64.00
ISO.SO
13.SO
30.00
1S3.00
SS.SO
85.00
26.50
105.00
30.00

26.SO
147.00

38.SO
140.SO

44.00
11.00
72.00
69.00
S4.00

34.SO

47.50

131.00
39.00
4.SO
108.SO
2.00

12.SO
36.70

Us.so 2
117.SO 2
42.SO 3

7.00
121.30
15S.OO
Sl.00
2.00
20.SO
142.SO
114.SO
49.00

2
4
3
1
1
4
1

1
66.00 3
134.22 2
91.80
88.00
20.00

s

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership 1936
No.
Name
233 Calistoga.·--···············--- 69
234 Hope,..·-·········-········- 66
235 Surprise Valley...·-·····-·- 62
236 Hills Ferry·--'-··-··· - - 92
237 Guadalupe...·-···-··---- 57
34.00
240 Colusa................-····--·- 150
241 Santa Ana............·-~-- 439
61.00
242 Magnolia..·-·················-···- 24-0
24.1 Euca.lyptus..·-···················- 219
244 Alcatraz.........•-····-··········-· 497
75.50
245 Laurel.....................-.......... 153
7.00
246 Pomona....·-·-···········-··-···· 306
17.50
247 Fresn0.....- ........................... 537
98.00
248 Alturas...................•......._ .. 140
250 .'\~:•.........,......;...-~·······--· 60
8.00
253 Landinark.................·-········ 93
254 Reading........,................,........, 178
2.50
255 Welcome........................,....,_ 103
7.00
256 Lodi...'·-·····--························ 274
258 P~tbyn ............................ _. lOt
8.50
259 E~rgreen......,....-................ 503
33.50
260 King Solomon's .........._..... 650
31.00
261 ~n. .•.:......~...:.........~.•...... 88
262 Lompoc..........--·····-··-····- 115
23.50
264 He.sperian...........................• 222
265 ()Tland.....................•-......:.... 112 156.50
266 North East......................-. 51
52.00
267 Galt...·-·····-~········.·················· 64
268 Dutant...........- ...................... 590
98.00
269 Olive Branch..................·.... 186
271 Snow Mountain..............:. 36
272 Pasadena.............................. 504
47.50
273 Anchor.........·-·················-··· 240 223.08
274 Arroyo................................. 80
275 Oakdale..........................•..... 120
69.50
277 Selma..-·············-··········-···.. 149
278 So. California..................... 537 154.50
279 Hanford..............................,·. 144
8.00
280 Madera...........,...· ······-········ 165
281 Mount Shasta..................... 59
282 Calayomi.............................. 58
25.00
283 South West......................., 162
40.00
285 San Miguel...............·-······· 48
286 Paso Robles ........................· 113
7.00
287 Winnedumah...................... 108
288 Maxwell.............................. 47
289 Elsinore........- -·················98
36.07
290 East Gate........·-··············· 769 307.50
291 Santa Paula....................... 267
12.50
292 Los Gatos........................... 198
293 Orange Grove.................... 188
294 Traver............:.•·····-············· 104

1937

1938
23.50

6.00
44.00
64.50

45.00
40.00
19.00
9.00
365.00
17.00

1939
21.00
16.50

Resi1940 dents
25.50 1
16.00

16.50
118.50

13.00
31.50

45.00
41.50

.50

132.65

25.00
5.00
31.25

21.00
25.00
10.00
8.00

62.50
25.00
18.36
69.50 3
2
12.00 1
45.00 1
27.00
9.05
1
200.00 1

12.75
1.00
1.00
200.00
7.00

52.50
21.00
44.00
108.50
25.00

27.00
5.00

6.00
2.00
2.00
15.00

34.00
56.50
51.00
10.00
23.50

86.50

35.50
122.43

11.00
26.00
126.00

12.50
7.50
159.00
20.00
28.00

10.00
5.00
19.94
207.00
15.00
9.00

18.50
133.00

10.00
73.75
10.00
8.00
. 7.00
52.61
130.00

129

GRAND LODC:E OF CALIFORNIA

66.00
29.00
189.47
5.50
38.50
141.00
46.00
22.50
14.00
25.00
57.75

14.00
102.00 3
15.00
16.20
81.00
30.00 3
10.00
62.00 3
25.00
14.00 •
38.00 6
250.72
17.25 2
27.00 1
828.00 4
56.00 1
5.00
25.00 2
65.70 1

26.00
20.00
62.44
201.39
9.00
52.73
26.17

2
64.80
57.00
6.00
16.12
10.70
25.00

2
3
1
2

Membership
Name
No.
295 Mt. Jackson...............·-··-- 121
296 Silver Gate.........·-···--····-· "563
297 Dunsmuir.........·-···········-···· 199
299 Liberty.........·-···-···--·-- 224
300 Redlands ..........................-- 350
301 Ontario.........·-··········-····-·.. 222
302 Santa Lucia..............._....... 99
303 Porterville......................- ... 290
304 Reedley................................ 145
305 Azusa-·························-···· 160
306 Ashlar.....................·-·········· 166
307 Santa Monica..................... 246
308 Monrovia...............·-·········· 226
309 Delano.....................·-····-···· 152
310 Sisson............................- ..... 67
312 Los Banos...............·-···-··· 121
313 Tehachapi...·-··········-·········· 163
314 Teme~cal.. ......................,..... 132
315 Norwalk.....................·-····· 124
316 Sanger.................,................, 161
317 F allbrook........................,..... 51
318 Emanuel...............·-··········- 71
319 Hollenbeck....-····--·-·- 1167
320 South Gate.·--··-- 648
321 Alisat.........·-····----- 105
322 Alhambra.............._____ 392
323 Whittier...·-················-···- 451
324 Corona...·-···-··--···- 538
325 Consuelo.............·-··--··-·- 149
326 Needles...........·-················- 210
327 Long Beach...·-····-··-·-- 507
.328 Redondo..........•....·-···-···-· 199
329 Vallee de France...·-····-··· 131
330 Kilauea ...............·-····-····-··· 191
331 Pacific Grove...·-·············· 158
332 San Pedro........·-············· 481
333 Alta.........•....,......·-··········-·· 60
334 Covina.............-·-··········~···· 215
335 West Gate...·-··········-····-·· 797
336 Fruitvale.......................••...- 758
337 Carquinez.........·-··········-·- 157
338 San Jacinto................·-······ 83
339 Fullerton...............·-····-·- 375
341 Oxnard............,.•..,....:...,.._. 236
343 San Fernando.................... 235
344 Starr King.......................,.. 535
345 Brentwood......................- ... 87
346 Palo Alto...................·--···· 453
347 McKinley............................ 293
348 San Bernardino.........·-····· 473
349 Sequoia................-.:......-:. 877
351 Palestine..................,.....;.•..,..., 527
352 Sunset...·-····-····----··-··- 386

1938

34.50

1937
8.00
114.00
34.50
89.00
12.00
11.00

74.00

22.00

35.50

7.00
42.50
17.00
27.50
28.50

8.50

1936

30.50
67.50

17.50
13.50 .
48.50
42.00
23.50
75.00
129.00
32.50
5.00
47.00
35.50
18.50
57.50
90.43
58.00

134.75
2.00
10.00
21.50
8.00
137.00
203.21
12.00
98.00
468.33
36.00
114.00

113.00
104.50
34.00
850.50
31.00
10.00
49.90

46.00

176.00
115.50
22.00

260.75
46.50
10.00

43.00

122.00

108.00
78.00
68.00
46.50
23.00
42.50
51.00
121.50
100.00

25.00

57.01

57.50
65.50
78.00
19.00

44.50
33.00
46.00

35.00
71.00
100.00
8.00
10.75
18.00
65.50
15.43
40.50

1939

75.00 5
23.50 2
25.00 3
1.
16.00 1035.50 1
1
222.78 138.00 1
143.50
45.00
44.00

17.25
10.00
40.00
17.00
11.00
47.00
38.00
85.00
5.00
6.00
14.00

11.00
15.00 1
24.00 2
12.00 2
2
38.00
112.00 2
5.00 1
20.98 1
2.00

22.00
136.45
16.00
38.50
517.79

5.00
250.00
313.26
37.00
78.00
217.71
80.00

8.00
331.00
61.50
15.00
54.00
625.00
222.00
41.00
10.00
142.00
23.50
7.50
4.00
69.50
23.00
.48.25
102.00
114.00
15.00
19.00

Resi1940 dents

19.50
72.00
588.25
180.50
30.00
233.50
28.00
48.50
3.00
43.00
185.00
19.00
10.00
13.00

4
2
2
3

1
1
1
103.00 1
61.00 1
81.00
645.00
12.75 2
198.00 1
24.25
1
152.49 1
18.50
55.50
3
39.00
81.00
26.00 3

63.50
109.00

2
62.54 3
82.50 5

57.00

17.00 5

4

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

130

Name

Membership

353 Pinole...·-···········-······- 123
354 Presidio...·-····-···--·-- 542
355 Hollywood.........- ..········-- 873
356 Mill Valley......................... 308
357 Buena Park...............·-····- 118
358 Golden State....................... 828
359 Loyalton.........·-····-············· 71
360 San Francisco................_.. 344
361 Fort Bragg.........·-··-····-·
92
362 Charity................................. 107
363 Berkeley............................... 504
365 Willits...........................·-··· 140
366 Las Palmas......................... 612
367 South Pasadena................ 488
368 ·Unity.................................._ 377
369 Ocean Park........................ 336
370 Amity................................... 462
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie.. 343
372 Gardena................................. 143
373 Veteran................................ 177
374 J~wel. .............................~..... 141
375 Richmond ............................. 577
376 Francis Drake................_. 185
82
377 Artesia.....................·-·········
378 Mizpah...........................·-··· 368
379 Fillqiore............................_ 156
380 Huntington Beach............. 240
381 Oceanside............................ 123
382 Highland Park.................. 434
80
383 Orosi................................._
384 El Centro..........................• 306
385 Dinuba...........................·-··· 178
387 Coalinga............................_. 268
388 Parnassus..........................., 646
389 Palos Verdes...·-················ 466
63
390 Imperial...............................
391 East Belt.........................._ 62
392 West Lake.......................... 1009
393 Balder................................... 477
394 University........................... 507
395 T·urlock................................ 162
396 Apollo............................- .... 362
397 Rising Light....................... 515
399 Fraternity............................ 373
400 . Burlingame........................• 382
401 Bay View......:..................... 322
402 Brawley................................ 127
403 Yerba Buena...................... 425
96
404 Glendora...............................
405 Moneta..;.............................. 626
406 Burbank....._........................ 252
407 La Mesa............................• 140

1936
100.50
121.00
58.00
6.00
98.50
91.00
5.00
5.00
131.00
SS.DO

35.00
229.00
20.50
55.50
12.00
140.50
15.00
5.00
64.34
35.00
2.50
66.00
40.00

100.00
61.00

425.50
82.50
100.50
11.00
71.00
26.00
49.00

28.50
5.00
80.00
11.00

1937
40.00
101.00
109.00
56.00
6.00
145.50
8.00
76.50

1938
15.00
64.50
30.00
31.50
11.00
186.00

7.50
61.50

8.50
6.oo ·

45.00

175.50
64.00
100.00
177.50
36.50
812.00
10.00
46.50
25.00
81.00
127.00
10.00
136.00
40.00
45.00
5.00
80.00
4.50
45.00
29.00
12.50
69.00
46.00

5.00
73.00
44.00
9.00

122.35
72.50
57.00
198.00

433.00
14.00
165.13

364.50
28.00
105.0Q
6.00
157.00
129.50
8.25
36.00
47.00
44.60

20.00
269.10
5.00
32.50
92.00
76.50
36.00
111.50
16.50
25.00
25.53
13.00
80.00
8.00

275.50
'2.00
25.00
42.00
3.00
8.50
46.00
20.00

81.00
15.50
411.65
80.50
44.50
15.00
25.50
7.50
17.00
132.00
23.00
10.00
170.81
42.00
13.95
80.00

1939
15.00
71.00
26.00
33.00
23.00
130.00
4.75
65.00

Resi·
1940 den ta
15.00
58.00
12.00
49.75
6.00
109.00
2.00
28.00

6
4
2

4
1
2

38.00
190.00
50.00
82.50
11.00
272.00
80.50
50.00
10.00
138.50

2
1
1
5

1
2

107.77
57.50
80.50
2

77.00
19.00
38.50
30.00
101.00
30.85
128.00

67.00
10.00

26.50
26.00
85.14

1
2
2
1

7.50
15.50
254.60
62.50
62.00
19.50
24.00
42.50
5.00
68.00
2.00

12.00
330.55

2
3
2

56.00
17.00
54.50
125.10

5

127.56
22.00
111.00
20.07
15.81

157.61
4.00
70.00 2
144.00 1
25.00 1

110.00

2
2
1

No.

Membership

Name
408 Sierra Ma9re.....................
86
409 Honolulu...'..............:....-····- 223
410 Charter Rock ....·-·············· 394
411 Perris......... ·-······-~·-···········75
412 Calexico.....- ........................ 125
413 Waucoba............................44
414 ArlingtotL...............-........... 290
415 Silver Trpwel.................... 309
416 Lindsay................................ 150
417 Clovis..~................................ 220
418 Elysian................................. 422
419 Upland.......:....................- .... 139
420 Kerman._......,..............~ ....... 44
421 Inglewood............................ 277
422 Eagle Rock ......................... 256
423 York.................·- ··-····-····- 164
424 Exeter......-.......................... 153
425 Holtville..................:...........
94
426 Midway........................~....... 365
427 Chino Valley......................
57
428 San Dimas............·--·····-· 95
429 Pittsburg...............·-·-·- 140
430 McOoud......................,....._ 106
431 Alpha..........-········--···--- 409
434 Maricopa.....................:....... 67
433 Ha:mmonton......•...:..··+····- 152
435 Fairmount........................... 516
436 C_laremont............................ 96
437 Lancaster............................. 112
438 Acacia..................................
67
439 Tyriail........;............................ 100
440 Standard......:....................... 309
441 Coronado............................. 174
442 Blackmer............................. 518
443 Schofield.............................. 202
444 Carpinteria......................- ..
75
445 Wilshire............................... 526
446 La Puente..................•......... 71
447 Torrance...,..................~....... 203
448 Mount Diablo..'.................. 161
449 Park.................................... 442
450 Van Nuys............................ 254
451 Montebello.......................... 237
452 San Pasqual........................ 350
453 Bethlehem................ :........... 309
454 Crocker................................ 271
455 Golden West....................... 455
457 Ramona................................ 212
458 Henry S. Orme................. 540
459 Riverbank..........:................. 78
460 Mount Oso...,..................... 188
461 Argonau't............................. 358
462 Paul Revere.....•..:.............. 499

131

Resi1936
215.50
7.00
41.18

13.50
5.00
92.00
3.00
10.00
19.00
63.69
142.50
11.00
136.50
4.00
2.00
128.00
35.50
33.00
65.00
5.00
25.50
60.00

66.00
126.00
78.00
67.50
27.00
75.00
79.00
2.00
9.50
33.00
12.00
75.50

78.50
65.50

1937
28.80
207.00
69.00
34.02

1938
72.00
247.00
13.00
25.00

94.00
44.00

112.00.

147.50
4.50
1.00
42.00
68.50
63.55
74.00
1.20
82.50
2.50
52.00

77.79
54.50
19.25
25.00
9.50
22.00
47.00
27.00
46.00
24.00
73.00
108.25
25.00
55.20
28.00
65.50
57.50
147.50
55.50
25.00
145.50
28.00
26.00
63.98
19.50
73.50
30.50

19.00
15.00
147.50
2.00

84.50
22.18
82.50
12.50
2.50

1939

1940 dents

238.00
73.00
31.00

244.00 3
60.00 2
10.00
5.00
15:00
115.50 7
30.00 1
9.00 1

16.00
122.00
97.00
42.00
18.50
225.00
7.00
65.00
40.00
28.42
142.00
45.60
90.50

126.50
4.50
40.25
30.50
33.51
138.50
41.50
28.45

25.00
133.25
41.85
25.00
44.00
5.00
69.00
17.00
8.50
21.00
54.00
24.00
33.50
38.00
33.50
8.50
21.50
29.00
60.00
17.50
46.50
72.50
9.00
38.00
17.50

120.73
26.00
33.50
32.00
40.65

139.00
29.00
56.65

3

19.10

3

46.00
34.00
17.00
4.50
6.00
175.25
66.10
91.56
46.00
16.00
57.00
7.00
7.50

27.00
31.00
29.00
25.50
10.00
105.50
75.00
38.15
147.00

16.00
4.00
93.50
10.00
47.00
43.00
14.00
37.00

50.00
15.50
17.00
66.50
68.38

4

85.50 2
3.00 1
3
29.50 2
23.00 1
2
5.00 1
27.00
43.11 2

132

No.

463
464
465
466

467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476

477
478

479
480
481
482
483

484
485
486
487

488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496

497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI.A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Memhership
Name
Morgan Hill...................... 96
Alta Vista ........................... 278
Center................................... 325
Libertas................................ 243
Culver City........................ 181
Rockridge................·-········· 351
Yorba Linda..........- ........... 93
I,incoln...•..................- ......... 272
Delta...........................___. 291
.Matti..................................... 129
Blythe................................... . 37
Victory....·-·························· 218
America..............................- 347
Coachella............................. 85
Temblor............................_ 128
Thousand Oaks................• 316
Golden Rule...............,....... 358
Fellowship...,...................- .. 192
Mt. Davidson..................... 294
Clarence F. Smith............ 249
Belt................................___ 203
Albert Pike................ ___ 200
Chowchilla........:..............._. 65
Caledonia..........·-···-··----· 153
Vallejo.........................._
229
Patterson............................. 64
East Bay.........·-··········-··- 255
Corcoran.............................. 72
Woodstock........................... 176
Garvanza......................_ .... 170
Atascadero..........................
58
Acorn........:...................~..... 332
Lebanon................_ ............ 303
Riverdale............................. 64
Fremont............................... 276
Stockton............................_ 124
Capital City........................ 178
Roosevelt............................. 151
W estw6od........., ............- .... 200
Harbor................................. 158
Point..................................;.. 95
Seaside................................. 291
Silver Cord......................... 254
Mount Olive....................... 530
El Segundo.....•................... 166
Joppa.................................... 44
Benjamin Franklin........... 197
Cupertino............................. 78
Sunnyvale..............·-····-···· 116
J?ahns ...............................,... 182
Cahuenga....- ....................... 302
Areonne............................... 334

1936

1937
5.00

31.00
44.50
38.50
20.50

12.00
131.23
18.00
6.00

58.00
14.00
263.00

83.50
29.66
255.00

:51.50
35.50
10.00
90.00
27.00
31.00

41.00
36.00
25.00
19.50
46.50
18.50
54.00
68.30
188.31
44.00

1938
25.05
138.50
18.00
76.00
18.00

1939
16.09
44.00
31.00
68.90
22.50

13.00
20.00

23.50
324.50

275.00

800.00

12.50

19.40
130.40
25.00

12.00
11.50
4.00
21.00
115.11

4.00

Resi1940 dents
24.71 3
26.33
40.45 1
56.50
136.50
4.50 . 1
15.00 1
253.00
83.46
268.00
2
94.00
21.50
48.11
15.00

17.00
45.00
118.61
24.00

40.00
156.35
27.50

39.00

39.00
28.50

6.00
17.00

35.75
31.00

50.00
26.50

44.00

5.00

7.00

20.00

9.00

10.00

51.50

26.00
30.50
2.00

25.00
17.00
3.00

5.00
36.50
76.00
5.00

3.50

20.00
32.50
26.52

17.00
25.50
26.00

10.00
9.00

14.00
17.50
23.50

12.00
19.00
25.00
2.00
10.00
42.50
15.00
11.00

48.50
17.00
1057.58
35.00
5.00
19.50
20.00
18.35
2.00
18.00

13.00
10.00
24.00

7.00
24.20
26.80
52.00
854.00
40.00
5.00

28.00
884.80
61.00
5.00
23.00

1
2

12.00
2.00

56.68
16.00
555.30 1
35.00 2

40.96
. 23.20
10.00

7.50
2

No.
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567

Memhership
Name
Vermont Square....·-···--· 353
Taft...........................·-····-- 167
Mount Vernon................ _. 208
4 Jolla....- ............;...•........ 128
Euclid..........·-······················ 255
Ionic...................................... 288
Piedmont............................. 206
Sunrise...·-················-·····-·· 174
Bellflower............................ 148
Catalina lsland.................. 108
George Washington.......... 266
Bay City......••.....:............... 205
Covenant....:......................... 262
Beverly Hills...................... 223
Loyalty................,................ 241
Sun Garden...................... _ 355
Alexandria.......................... 117
Smyrna................................. 46
Azure.................................... 187
96
Forest Hill...............·-···Alexander Hamilton......... 132
Seal Rock ...............·-·· ··-·- 129
Utopia...·-·········-········--·-- 474
Ascot.........·-····-····-·-·--·- 226
Belvedere..................·-········ 205
Queen Beach..........·-···-·- 101
Henry Morse Stephens... 280
Lankershim..................._. 254
Signal......................-·--···- 259
Glendale...._......................... 325
Jonathan.....,..............•......... 162
San Gabriel....................~.- 130
Arcadia................................ 106
Triangle.........·-·········-····-· 112
Justice....·-·························- 157
Seaport.............................•... 170
Lakeshore............................ 172
Semper Vireos ................... 129
Golden City...............·-···- 79
Educator.............................. 184
White Pine............·- ·······84
Fairfax..,.............._............. 108
Hermosa............................- 136
Point Firmin...........:.......... 254
Craftsman......................._.. 211
Plymouth.....................___ 177
East San Diego................. 254
Pyramid.........·-··········-····- 182
South Park.........·-····-···- 302
Foothill................................ 243
West AQ;lms................,..- 204
James A. Garfield..........- 131
Searchlight.........·--··-·- 312

1936
72.90
61.00
19.00
50.00

15.00
22.00
40.00
72.25

1937
69.33
235.50
84.50
10.00
51.00
60.00
8.00
15.00
29.00
37.00
17.50
36.00
25.00
19.00
43.00
147.10
118.75

133

1938
48.42
50.00
107.60
5.00
5.00
95.30
10.00
8.00
5.00
31.50
2.00
71.50
100.00
50.50
24.50

1939
74.11
32.00
65.50
21.00
99.00
49.00
7.50
75.00
30.00
109.50
6.25
31.00
44.00
90.50
55.00

Resi1940·dents
71.16
10.00
59.83
15.00
101.80 2
.32.00
20.00
49.00
16.00
2.00
19.50
5.00 2
98.00 1
31.00

27.00

18.50

7.00
6.00
132.50

18.30
2.00
316.50

104.13
36.00
21.00

76.64 2
24.00
68.00

2
11.50
21.00
32.50
29.00
42.50
41.50
15.50
2.00
6.00
9.00
14.00
5.00
47.00
16.00

23.00
20.50
120.50
41.50
104.88
31.50
30.00
5.00
48.00
14.00
16.00
10.00
5.00
11.00
27.00
30.00
25.50
15.00

16.00
58.00
14.00
59.20
36.50
15.50
2.00

37.50
10.05
7.00
68.50
17.00
21.00
18.00
8.00
28.00
5.00

19.50
5.00
20.00
13.50
30.50
11.50
64.00
50.00
53.50
38.00
1.00

52.00
17.50
14.00
66.50
67.00
23.00
32.50
71.50
24.00
29.50
35.00
16.00

10.00
21.50
15.52
5.00
8.00
36.05
17.50
17.00
98.50
5.00
23.00
12.00

27.00
85.00
8.00
3.00
26.00
49.5(}
28.00
7.00
27.50
5.50
92:00
21.50
59.53
298.85
37.25
2.00
10.00
32.00
143.50
11.50
40.50

33.50
71.00
15.00
18.00
9.00
10.00
24.50
18.00

2

15.00
39.00
19.27
6.50
63.00 1
45.10 2
10.00
18.00
12.00
74.50 3
20.50
2.00
46.00

77.00

134

No.
568
. 569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578
579
580
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
597
598
S99
600
601
602
603

604
60S
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621

Membership
Name
Park Boulevard................. 211
Chateau Thierry................ 188
Military Service................ 265
Francis K. Shattuck......... 174
James Madison,................. 149
57
Hillcrest............................S. W. Hackett................. 193
Fort Crook.................,....... 69
El Cajon Valley....·-········· 55
Sunnyside............................ 255
Pr0gressive......................_. 276
Warren G. Harding......... 146
Santa Maria....................... 49
Security.........·-···············-· 181
Rialto......................-··········- 86
Wasco .............·-······-·-···-· 107
Harding..........:.................... 158
Manchester................- ........ 209
Garden Grove..................._ 92
Valley Forge...·-··········-··- 187
El Sereno...................·-······ 144
Kauai....·-···························- 98
Compass.....~---···················-· 138
74
Escalon...............................•
Tujunga............................... 118
All States ........,................... 273
Service................................. 299
Alexander Graham Bell.. 166
Guardian................. _........... 245
Truth................:.................• 90
Pearl Harbor..................... 196
carmelita.......................- .... 185
Lynwood.............................. 113
Grizzly.........·-····-····-········• 90
Melrose...·-··········-····;...~.... 121
Dimond....•.....:..........·-·····- 184
Jubilee....,............................. 140
Glassell Park...................... 222
Sojourner............................ 88
Gral}ada................................ 267
Provident.....................·-···· 135
Elmhurst.............................. 129
Canoga................................. 116
Temple City....~··········-···- 113
Three Pillars....................• 168
Larchmont................- ......... 182
75
Hemet...................._.......:....
Seal Beach...:.................... _ 6S
Big Bear............................_ 43
·southland....._..................... 174
Neptune......................- ....... 124
Point Loma........................ 101
The Gardens ....................... 199

1936
19.00
9.00
12.00
57.00
43.00

1937

36.00

50.00
19.00

11.00

26.00

382.00

50.00

24.50
117.50
54.00
25.00
19.SO
4.00
Sl.50
42.65
25.50
26.00
13.00

1938
33.50

16.50
40.00

50.00
25.50

24.00
16.50

5.00
51.00

42.00
21.SO

73.75
8.25
2.00
54.00
45.00
10.67
28.00
53.00
12.50

52.00

31.50
23.00
10.00

22.00
21.00
10.00
33.00

47.00
63.56

322.00
12.00
56.00
34.00
96.00
110.00
49.50
26.00

376.00
8.00
27.00
29.00
95.00
11.00
90.00
10.00
18.50
152.00

70.00
77.00
40.12
92.00
17.00
16.00
62.25
48.00
6.00
12.00
58.00
18.00
30.75
170.00

1939
13.00
15.50

6.55
36.00

8.00
6.00
25.50
4.SO
11.00
24.00
25.00
39.50
37.00
12.50
105.50
17.00
10.50

Resi·
1940 dents
44.25
3
1

45.50
2.00
41.06
48.00
10.00
13.00
5.00

13.00
41.SO
5.60
15.00

28.50
134.50
5.30
12.00

294.00

259.50

21.00
37.45
43.75
140.00
108.00
23.00
170.00
70.00
4.00
24.00
5.00
20.81
70.SO
16.00
61.82
8.00
32.00
7.00
52.5S

SS.00
2.00
47.00

45.00
35.00
58.00

2
1

53.50

19.00
38.66
46.00
109.00
116.00
22.00

1
3
1

3

179.15
31.00
3
68.50
22.00
46.00
23.6S
42.0S
43.56
43.50
64.50
29.20
61.50
21.50
21.33

.

2·

1
4

2.00
15.00
SS.SO
40.50
40.00

135

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

15.00
S0.00
45.00
42.00

5.00
18.SO
SS.OQ
69.00
37.00
27.20

Membership
No.
Name
622 Atwater................................ 154
623 Menorah.............................. 307
624 Fortitude...·-··········-····-····- 127
625 Angeles Mesa.......:.........-. 310
626 Chula Vista........................ 99
627 Lamanda Park................... 109
95
628 Beacon of the West.........
629 Fairview...............·-············· 99
630 Ingleside.............................. 102
631 Benevolence...·-················-· 182
632 Normal Heights................. 179
633 Poinsettia.....................:...... 275
634 Victorville........................... 102
635 Riverside.............................. 169
636 John Marshall................- .. 102
637 Palisades...............~······-····- 172
638 Indian Rock....................... 108
639 Composite..................•......... 136
76
640 Veritas..........- ......................
641 James A. Foshay............... 88
642 La Cumbre.......................• 77
643 Alta Loma,..·-····················· 235
644 Lomita............................·-··· 91
645 A. F . E. Irwin.........·-····'·· 142
646 Metropolitan....................... 72
647 Hawthorne......................- .. 52
648 Damascus.....- ..................... 201
649 Florence....- ......................... 181
650 La Brea.....................·-····-· 190
651 Menlo Park..........- ..··-······ 72
652 Crescenta Valley.........·-··· 105
653 Fontana................................ 84
654 Jordan ............................·-··· 130
655 Monte Vista .............,.......... 230
656 Citro!.................................... llS
6S7 John D. Spreckels....·-····· 278
63
658 Livingston...........................
659 La Habra ............................ 100
660 Baldwin Park.................... 59
661 Malta.~ .................................. 103
662 Henry Knox ...................... 210
663 Ojai...................................... 46
74
664 Oasis..........·-······· ...............
665 Kaweah................................ 56
666 Reseda .................................. 75
667 Meridian...........................- 168
668 San Gorgonio................_._ 92
669 John P. Jarman................. 102
670 Greenleaf............................. 168
671 San Clemente...................- 30
672 Laguna Beach.................... 57
673 Far West ...........,................ 136
83
674 Los Cerritos....................•.•

1936
18.00
71.00
60.50
34.00

1937
29.00
147.50
69.50
104.50
7.00

1938
21.00
186.00
59.50
42.00

69.00

53.50
9.00
64.10
42.00

23.00
3.00
lOl.72
34.00
47.00
11.00
25.00

49.00
1.00
45.00
100.00

34.00
48.00
30.00
61.00
8.00
200.50

91.40
11.05
88.50

29.00
23.00
39.00
22.75

24.00
13.00
34.58

24.72
22.50
43.00
12.50
52.50

21.00
25.65
50.00
16.00
54.50

4.00
35.00
26.00
69.00
13.02

4.00
27.00
3.00
48.50
45.07

9.60 1
54.26 5
3S.SO
41.00
20.50

50.00
14.00
279.00

50.00
14.50
261.40

50.00
28.30
250.00

15.00

48.06

56.00
18.25
58.00
34.00

41.00
12.50

7.00

11.00

12.00
42.00

11.00
4.00
66.00
14.00

17.00
21.00
26.00
31.00

66.50

26.00
21.00
16.00

32.00
38.00
48.50

111.75
26.00
9.00
44.50
179.11
21.09

Resi1940 dents
19.37
124.50 1
63.00 1
300.00
2
102.25
5.00
36.00
5.00
79.87
50.00
174.00
8.00
19.00
29.00
188.85
3.00
21.00

15.00
20.00
65.62
45.00
7.50
73.50
26.00

13.00

22.42
24.00

1939
14.50
112.50
70.75
5.00
17.00
50.00
15.00
75.00
8.00
54.16

20.00
65.90
18.00

20.00

5.00
17.00
10.00
22.00

7.00

41.00
20.75
26.00

67.00
21.27
53.00
32.50
10.SO
30.50

lS.SO
19.00
46.2S
16.00

43.60
42.85
6.00
7.30
27.00

12.00
14.50
14.00

9.00

19.00

23.00

S.00

20.00

20.00

9.2S
72.50

4

2

136

No.
675
676
677
678
679
680

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemherName
ship
Modesto............................... 146
Willow Glen....·-···.-·········· 89
Liberal Arts .......·-·····'····- 72
Altadena............................_ 174
Canby's Cross ...·-··········-·· 46
Carmel ........... __ ............. -... 50

1936
39.00

1937
48.00
44.85
25.00
4.00

1938
22.75
2.50
29.50

1939
32.50
6.00
62.00
61.00
5.00

Resi1940 dents
48.73

137

Amount of fund, July 31, 1940.. ~ ...... ~---···· ················'·;······················'·-$1,nS.584.89
Amount of fund, July 31, 1939:................................•....... :.................... 1,170,181.88
Increase during the current year ........•.................•....•..•.•......•......$

58,403.01

Accounted for as follows:
25.00
37.50
5.00

Total membership .............. 126,185
Total number Lodges .................. 584
Total contributors .... 1936, 3,000; 1937, 5,800; _1938, 4,600; 1939, 6,500;
1940, 6,357.
Per cent 1936 2.4 %
1939 5.20%
1937 4.5 %
1940 5.02%
1938 3.61%
Report of Auditors

To· the Endowment Fut1d Committee, Masonic Homes of California:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California fo~ the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1940 and present herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts .and disbursements, (other than
Luckenbach Fund-Exhibit C) for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1940.
Exhibit B: Summary statement of Endowment Fund assets, as at
July 31, 1940.
·
Schedule B-1 : List of regular Endowment Fund securities on hand-'acquired prior to July 31, 1940.
Schedule B-2 : List of regular Endowment Fund securities on handadditions to fund fiscal year 1939-40.
Schedule B-3 : Statement of securities redeemed and sold.
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach fund as at July
31, 1940.
Exhibit D : Statements of Endowment Fund income and capital accounts.

Securities (Schedules B-1 and B-2) :
All of the corporation · stocks and the irrigation district bonds were
received by donation or bequest; other bonds so received are designated
by the letter "D." All donated securities are listed at market value at the
time of donation, with the exception that where the value is uncertain because of its being an unlisted or a closely held security, then in that case
a nominal value of $1.00 is listed for the purpose of record. Insurance policies are listed at a nominal value of $1.00 for conservative purposes.
Bonds purchased ~re recorded at cost. As most bonds carry a heavy
premium, an amortization schedule has been put into effect in order to reduce to a minimum any loss to the endowment fund when the bonds are ·
redeemed. ·
·
Increase of Fund:
The total assets of the Permanent Endowment Fund, which includes
the regular fund and the Luckenbach Fund, show the following increase for
the fiscal year:

2

Cash donations and bequests ....-............:...............·-···-···'··········-$
Securities by donations and bequests._........................ :..............
1937 bequests ~ransferred from Homes (property) ................

63,430.74
3,273.91
4,330.00

Total ··········-.···········--····-············-············-·•--·l-.:..........,_......$
Less, net loss on securities sold and redeemed ....... ,............. :..

71,034.65
12,631.64

-----

Net increase as above ...................·-····················-··················$
58,403.01
,
The endowment fund income earned during the fiscal year and transferred to the Masonic Homes General Fund amounted to $38,458.99.

Other Endowment Funds:
The following fun·ds, which will eventually become part of the endowment fund, are recorded in the Masonic Homes general fund records in
order to simplify the payments on the annuity contracts which each fund
carries. · A full report on these funds is included in our report on the
Masonic Homes General Fund.
Charles N. Flint Trust ...........................:.................•..................... .,..........$106,858.62
Charles· N. Flint Annuity.......................................................................... 77,454.70 ·
Charles N. Flint Annuity.......................................................................... 26,633.47
George H. and Harriet C. Wadleigh Annuity...................................... 21,646.23
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity.......................................... 28,857.13
Total ········································-····- ··············-·········-···················$261,450.15
We certify that, in our opinion, . the attached statements set forth the
condition of the Permanent Endowment Fund as at July 31, 1940 with the
exception as to the stated or book value of the securities on hand, and
that a proper accpunting ~as been made of all receipts and disbursements.
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
Certified Public Accountants,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Secretary's Report
Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

(Not including "Luckenbach Fund" Endowment Account-Exhibit C)
For the fiscal year ended July 31, 1940
.
Cash in banks, August 1, 1939......... ·-•·····················································$ 66,312.48

Receipts
Donations from lodges, etc. .....•........•.......$ 21,977.92
Bequests ...................................................... 41,452.82 $ 63,430.74

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Securities redeemed and sold:
(Schedule B-3)
Bonds .................................................... 27,492.34
Stocks ............................:....................... 9,317.00
Building and loan associations........ 1,568.37

38,377.71

Recovery of bond premiums....................

4,270.51

139

Schedule B-1
U ST OF REGULAR ENDOWMENT FUND SECURITIES

JULY 31, 1940

B ook Value

Total receipts ..........................................................

106,078.96

Total to account for ..................................................................$172,391.44
Disbursements

Bonds purchased ·······························'-························:···-··············.-········-$154,21 i.52 ·
Cash in banks, July 31, 194-0....................................................................$ 18,179.92
Composition of Frmd

Cash (Savings accounts):
Anglo California National Bank.............................$ 16,988.35
The Sa1i. Francisc<;>;.·B~~---··············:·················.•······
1,191.57
Total, as a~ve.~........................................... ~...........,.,.....;..........$ 18,179.92
Exhibit B
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF ENDOWMENT FUND ASSETS
.·

Regular Fund:

.

AS AT jULY 31, 1940

.

Cash in Savings Accounts
(Refer to. Exhibit A-Receipts and Disbursements) ..................$
Securities: (at book value)
(Refer to Schedules B-1 and B-2 for detailed
list of securities)
Bonds ···'··············- ························;...·...:..................$1,138,978.16
Stocks .......................................................................
11,881.75
7,295.97
Miscellaneous ........................................................

18,179.92

Total book value............................................$1,158,155;88
Deduct, reserve for amortization of
bond premiums ................................................
8,571.56
Net book value of securities........................

1,149,584.32

Total Regular Endowment Fund, Cash and Securities ..................$1,167,764.24
Add :
Special Fund-"John and Lena Luckenbach":
(Reference-Schedule C) ....................:.............................................
60,820.65
Grand Total Endowment Fund, July 31, 1940..................................$1,228,584.89
NoTEs: (aY Funds received and. held in suspense pending final fulfillment of
annuity contracts are not included in the above totals. Refer to
comments for further information.
( b) Refer to Schedules B-2 and B-3 for acquisition and disposition of
securities during the year.

BONDS : (Acquired prior to July 31, 1939)
("D" indicates bonqs received by donation) ·
$ 25,000. Alabama, State of, Refunding, 3~~% due 1964..............$ 27,957.50
1.00
2,000. Alexandria Hotel Realty Corp., 6V2 % due 1947...... D*
1,269.37
1,000. Beverly Hills, City Hall, 4V2% due 1968........................
2,000. Beverly Hills, City Hall, 5% due 1968............................ 2,731.12
7,000. Beverly Hills School District, 5% due 1958-67.............. 9,244.46
10,000. Beverly Hills, water, 5% "due 1947-48.............................. 10,687.70
Bishop Union High School District, 5% due 1949........ 5,159.35
5,000.
5,749.05
5,000. Burbank High School District, 5% due 1950......... ~----10,000. California, State of, Highway, 4%% due 1955................ 11,475.00
California, State of, San Francisco Harbor
50,000.
4% due 1985............................................................;.,......... 57,916.50
3,000. Central Public Utility .Corp., 20 year income,
5V2% due 1952..............................................................D*
232.50
5,000. Chicago Board of Education, 4~% due 1954.................. 6,143.20
5,000.
East Bay Municipal Utility District,
water, 5% due 1947.......................................................... 5,326.55
15,000. . El Segundo High School District, 5% due 1952-53.... .. 16,015.08
5,000. Eureka, City of, water, 4% due 1962-64.......................... 6,014.26
5,000. Fort Bragg Union High School District,
4V2% due 1951...:................................................................ 5,668.85
5,000. Glendale, City of, sewer, 5% due 1962.............................. 6,449.95
40,000. Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District,
4~% due 1959-61-65-67-71.............................................. 47,686.67
46,000. Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District,
3~% due 1959-67-69-70-71.............................................. 53,462.60
1,500. Jonathan Club Liquidating Debenture, due 1952........* 1,500.00
15,000. Knoxville, City of, water, 4V2% due 1961........................ 16,142.19
Los Angeles City High School District,
25,000.
5% due 1951-59-60............................................................ 27,385.96
Los Angeles City School District, 5% due 1964............ 23,041.00
20,000.
Los Angeles, City of, electric plant, 5% due 1952-61.. 16,546.47
15,000.
5,471.55
5,000. Los Angeles, City of, harbor, 4~% due 1960...............,
5,000. Los Angeles, City of, sewer, 4~% due 1965.................. 5,512.05
Los Angeles, City of, water, 4V2% due 1965.................. 10,254.00
10,000.
Metropolitan Water District of Southern
20,000.
California, 4%% due 1975................................................ 22,601.66
55,000. Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California, 4% due 1957-58-83........................................ 60,414.25
New York City, rapid transit, 4% due 1977.................... 19,040.00
16,000.
New York City, rapid transit, 3%% due 1954................ 25,343.75
25,000.
New York City, various, 4% due 1977............................ 10,710.00
9,000.
30,000. New York Park, Vv'estchester County, 4% due 1975.... 38,153.10
Oakland, City of, harbor, 4V2% due 1966........................ 13,456.20
10,000.
15,000. Oakland, City of, sewer, 4V2% due 1961-2-3-4-5........... . 19,765.96
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First and refunding
3,000.
mortgage, 6% due 1941.............................:..................D
3,070.00
5,000.
Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel water, 4~% due 1965.. 6,687.85
1,294.25
1,000.
Paso Robles High School, 5% due 1963........................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

141

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

140

Book Value

Bo11ds

Pawtucket, R. I., High School, 3% due 1957................ 13,S46.78
Pawtucket, R. I., Highway, 3% due 19S7..,..................... 2,084.12
Pawtucket, R. I., water plant, 3% due 19S7.................. 10,420.60
Richmond, City of, improvements, S% due 1949-S2... . 2,000.00
Sacramento Municipal Utility District, vower,
3% due 1955:.....- ........._..._....- .• -~.-·-··-·····~----···--·········· 10,664.10
Sacramento, City of, filtration plant, 40% due 1966.... 2,613.40
2,000.
S,000. San Diego, El Capitan Dam, S% due 1964................'.... 6,832.40
San Francisco, City and County:
City Hall, 5% due 1956-S7. 60.____ .....•....•......................- .. lS,000.00
lS,000.
Hetch Hetchy, S~% due 19S4-55-63............................ 42,847.49
40,000.
Hetch Hetchy, S% due 1966.......................................... 6,898.7S
S,000.
40,000.
Hetch Hetchy, 40% due 1967-71-72-73-76........·-····· 53,303.6S
10,000.
Sewer, S% due 194S-46-47.·-·········································· 10,000.00
Spring Valley, 40% due 1966-67-69-70...................... 33,~0l.50
2S,OOO.
.
1,000. Santa Barbara, City of, water works tunnel
40o/o due 1948.-................:.....:................" ....:................... 1,000.00
3,762.SO Santa Barbara, City of, street, 40% due 1941-2-3-4.... 3,762.SO
Seattle, City of, light and power, 30% due 19S2-53 .... 24,937.SO
25,000.
lS,000. Stockton, City of, harb9r, 40% due 19S2-S9.................. lS,934.SO
9,000. Temescal Water Co., First mortgage, S% due 1960... . 9,067.SO
100,000. U . S. Treasury Bonds, 2~% due 196$............................ 104,718.7S
100. University Masonic Temple Association, second
mortgage, (registered) 6% due 1949,.........:...............•
100.00
1,250. Upland, City of, improvements, 6% due 1941-42........ D
1,2SO.OO
5,000. Vernon, City of, light and power, 4~% due 1963........ 6,402.lS
13,000.
2,000.
10,000.
2,000.
10,000.

Shares

10
120
S9
4/10
6/10
lS
160
316

so

10
10
25
S62
4
4

10
14
1
1
2
10

Book Value

10.00
Healdsburg General Hospital, Inc., preferred......•...........•
1.00
Home Service Corporation, Class B, common...., .............•
10.00
McCormack Lumber Co., Chas. R., common....................•
1.00
M. Nirenberg Sons, Inc., Class A-----··································*
1.00
M. Nirenberg Sons, Inc., Class B .......................................... •
431.2S
Oklahoma Natural Gas Corporation, preferred..................
1.00
Oklahoma Natural Gas Corporation, common....................
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% preferred,............................. 7,614.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., S0% preferred.......................... 1,0S0.00
1.00
Peoples Light and Power Corporation, preferred............•
2.00
Schulte United Sc to $1 Stores, Inc., preferred................•
1.00
Skaggs Springs Oil and Gas Company................................ •
1.00
Sotoyomi Vineyards ................................................................•
100.00
Southern California Edison Co., S0% preferred............... .
80.00
Southern California Edison Co., common........................... .
1.00
Splitdorf Electrical Company................................................•
1.00
Standard Public Service Co., preferred.......~---···················* ·
1.00
Sun Drug Company, preferred....,.........................................•
100.00
Taft Masonic Temple Association........................................•
1.00
United Stores Corporation, common ..................................•
1.00
Universal Chain Stores, common..........................................•
Total stocks (acquired prior to July 31, 1939) ....................$ 11,881.75
*Note-Not paying dividends.
Miscellaneous Securities, Etc.

Irrigation Bonds: (Donat~)

1,000.
1,000.

soo.

Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation District
First issue, 6% due 1937..........................:..........
•
Imperial Irrigation District, First refunding, ···········
6% due 1983............................- ........................................ •
Terra Bella Irrigation District First
refunding, 4% due 1979.........'.•........•....•...•.......•...._.........

1,000.00
1,000.00
S00.00

Total bonds (acquired prior to July 31, 1939) ......................$984,766.64

Fraternal Death Certificates:•
Cert.

3
1
10
1
1
1

Book Va/1u

Aahmes Temple Shrine Association ........ @$100 par$ 3.00
Aahmes Temple Shrine Association........ @ 50 par 1.00
Al Malaikah Auditorium Co..................... @ 100 par 10.00
Ben Ali Mystic Fund..................................
1.00
Masonic Temple Ass'n of Sacramento.... @ 100 par 1.00
Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2........@ 20 par 1.00

17.00

*Note-Not paying interest.
fosura11ce Policies:*

STOCKS: (Donated)
Shares

5
10

7
2
43
21
15
60
20
100

s

20

Book Value
Altad~na Masonic Temple

Building Assn...........................$
S0.00
American Telephone and Telegraph Co............................... 1,066 OO
Bakersfiel? Maso~ic Temple. Assn.......................................•
7:00
Ba~cam~nca Blair Corporation........~ .•................:................•
1.00
Cal~forn~a Ice & Cold Storage Co., Class A .....~....................
193 SO
California Ice & Cold Storage Co., Class B.................;......•
lQ SO
Central Publ~c Se;~i~e Co., preferred..................................•
82S:oo
Central Publ~c Uti_h_ti_es Corporation, common..................•
12.SO
Cent~al Public Utilities Corporation, preferred................•
40 00
Consolidated . Rock ~roducts Co., preferred......................•
1:00
E~stern :f'.ubhc Service Corporation, Class A, common ..•
1.00
First National Trust & Savings Bank of San Diego
250.00 .
preferred ···-~----··············-·······························-···········~---·····
Geyser Development Co., preferred...,.:.......... :.....................•
lS.00

$ SOO
250
1,000
1,000
1,000

New York Life Insurance Co....................,.............. 1.00
Mutual Life Insurance .Co..,.•...............,...................... 1.00
Equitable Life Assurance Co..................................... 1.00
State Life Insurance Co............................................... 1.00
Independent Order of Foresters.............................. 1.00

S.00

0

M iscella11eous I fems:

Receiver's Certificate on U. S. National Bank,
balance $43.11 *..........................................................................
Certificate of Deposit, $8,400 Summer Lake
Irrigation District •.................................................................
Assignment of Claim--Pacific Coast Building
and Loan Association•................................................•...........
Crypts ·························.···································································

1.00
2S0.00
1.00
830.00

143

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule B-3
Real Property: (assessed value)
.
Arlington lot-San Diego County.•...·-····-········-····-.$ 90.00
Lot No. 262-Los Angeles County............................
55.00
Improved lot 48--Healdsburg....................- ................ 3,500.00

Total Miscellaneous Securities, etc.,
(acquired prior to July 31, 1939)............................

STATEMENT OF SECURITIES REDEEMED AND SOLD
DURING THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

3,645.00

$ 4,749.00

Total Securities Acquired Prior to July 31, 1939................•...........$1,001,397.39
•Note : Nominal values only for purpose of recording.

Schedule B-2

Reg1'lar Endowment Fund
Net Proceeds
Bonds:
Ashland,
City
of,
called
............................................................
$
998.67
$ 1,000
25,000 New Mexico Highway, 2% due 1951......................,............. 25,125.~~
1,075 Santa Barbara, City of, matured............................................ 1,074.
44.00
500 Terra Bella Irrigation District................................................
250.00
1,000 West Okanogan Valley Irrigation District........................ ·
Stocks:
2,329% shares Masonic Temple Association........................................ 9,317.00
Building and Loan Liquidating Dividends:
726.94
Columbian Building. & Loan Assn.............................................,...........
841.43
Pacific Coast Building & Loan Assn................................,....................

Total ................,.............•........•............._.....,.............................- .....$ 38,377.71

Additions to Fund I939-40
Bonds Purchased: (Cost)
Book Value
$ 5,000 Arcata, City of, Waterworks, 4% due 1960-1......................$ 5,622.74
25,000 California State, Sacramento State Building,
.
4% due 1965.. ~ .........................:...................'..........,·................. 28,720.75
5,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District,
5% due 1965-70-1-4..........................- ..................... ~............. 7,142.00
13,000 Eureka, City of, Water, 4% due 1961-2-7............................ 15,998.49
14,000 Grant Union High School District, 2% due 1952-3.......... 12,654.56
2,000 Huntington Park High School District, 5% due 1955...... 2,540.04
1,000 Huntington Park School District, 5% due 1956................ 1,288.43
3,000 Long Beach, City of, Park, 4'}"o due 1961-5............................ 3,303.93
2,000 Los Angeles High School District, 5% due 1963.............. 2,590.6(}
2,000 Los Angeles School District, 5% due 1963-4,...;................. 2,598.95
7,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California,
4% due 1965...:.....................·- ··.-····················•······-·•·····-·····-·· 7,843.64
15,000 Oxnard Harbor District, 3~~ % due 1961-5.......................... 16,338.735,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water, 40 % due 1963.... 6,193.11
5,000 San Buenaventura, City of, Water,
5% due 1956-1957-8-9-60...........................................;............ 6,385.533,000 Santa Monica S~hool District, 5% due 1960.....:.................. 3,783.5Z
25,000 Vernon, City of, Light and Power, 4~ % due 1961............ 31,206.5(}

Total bonds purchased....................:...............•.........................$154,211.52:
From the Estate of Jennie Downing. (Bequest)
Assignment of Claim-Columbian Building and
Loan Association ......................................................$2,076.97
Certificate of Deposit-Scioto Building and
Loan Association ........................................................ 470.00

2,546.97

Total Acquisitions for the year 1939-40.... _..........................................$156,758.49
Total Securities on Hand, July 31, 1940............................................$1,158,155.8&

I~uckenbach Fund

Bond.s:
$10,000

Southern California Edison Co., 4'}"o called........................$ 10,850.00
Exhibit C
STATEMENT OF " JOHN AND LE NA LUCKENBACH FUND"
'JULY 31, 1940

Special Fund
Balance in Fund, July 31, 1940................................,..............,,...............$ 60,820.65
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank No. 24201) ....$
849.47
S ecurities:
Cost
$ 5,000 California Water Service Co.,
1st Mtg. Series B, 4%, 1961..$ 5,162.50
3,000 Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District, 3+.~ %. 1971...... 3,423.78
1,000 Grant Union High School
District, 2'}"o, 1955.........:..........
880.13
1,000 Los Angeles, City of,
Water, 4%, 1971......................
1,167.58
8,000 Metropolitan Water District
of Southern California,
4%, 1965-86 ............................ 9,060.95
15,000 New York, City o.f, Various
4% %, 1960 .............................. 17,175.00
9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co.,
General Lien,. 3%, 2047........ 7,290.00
10,000 Southern Pacific Railroad Co.,
First and refunding mortgage, 4%, 1955......'.................. 10,650.00
100 Sh. West Penn. Electric Co.
Class A stock.......................... 10,480.85
65,290.79

Total cash and _seci1rities............

66,140.26

144

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Deduct:
Reserve for Amortization of Bond
Premiums and Discounts......................
Due to Masonic Homes General Fund
for income on securities for the years
1938-39 and 1939-40 (see note)............

405.68
. 4,913.93

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL
OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
5,319.61

Total Fund, as above.........·-·······-··-···"'·--~····-··-·····;..···•······'··~-......;..$ 60,820.65
Note: The amount due to the Homes General Fund is ·to be transferred when sufficient cash is available.
Exhibit D
STATEMENT OF ENDOWMENT INCOME AND CAPITAL ACCOUNTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1940

Income Account ·
Income received from Endowment Fund Securities:
From regular fund securities.......·-························-········-~·-············* 36,051.72
From Luckenbach fund securities...........................·-···················· 2,407.27
Income transferred to credi,t of Homes General Fund......$ 38,458.99

Capital Accounts
Regular
Luckenbach
Total
Balance, August 1, 1939........................$1,109,446.55 $60,735.33 $1,170,181.88
Adjustment:
1937 bequests held in Homes General fund now transferred to
Endowment fund:
Improved lot-Healdsburg..........
Crypts ............................................,...

3,500.00
830.00

3,500.00
830.00

Total ......................................•...

4,330.00

4,330.00

Additions to Funds:
From donations, bequests, etc.Cash (Exhibit A) ..............:.............
Securities (Schedule ~-2) ...........:

63,430,74
• 3,273.91

63,430.74
3,273.91

Total ..........................................

66,704.65

66,704.65

Profit or loss on redemption
and sale of securitiesProceeds (Schedule B-3) ...........:..
Less, book value.........,....................

38,377.71
51,094.67

10,850.00
10,764.68

49,227.71
61,859.35

85.32

12,631.64

85.32

58,403.01

Balance, July 31, 1940............................$1,167,764.24 $60,820.65

$1,228,584.89

Net gain or ·1oss......................
Net additions to funds ............

58,317.69

145

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
When last year we referred to the observance as "bigger and better"
than those which had preceded it, we could not of course know that that
description would have been better reserved for this year.
The phrase is a hackneyed one and smacks of "Main Street"; but in
no other way could the Twenty-first Annual Observance of Public Schools
Week be more aptly described. There have been in the past individual
local observances as successful as any reported this year.· But considered
as an entirety, and throughout the State generally, our latest observance
was bigger and better than the most successful of past years-bigger and
better in every way and from every point of view-in attendance at public
meetings, in .the number of visitors to the schools, in the types of. pro~r~ms
presented, in the generous support of the newspapers and the broadcastmg
stations and in the effective ·cooperation given by the groups which join
with us in the annual observance.
The following excerpt from a newspaper clipping accompanying a
report from one of our Lodges fairly indicates the situation throughout the
State generally:
"Last evening at the High School Auditorium another chapter
was written in the history of Public Schools Week when all records
of attendance at the combined school program were shattered. Not
only did the att~ndance record fall, but all records for quality and
balance of program tumbled also."
The frequent reference in the reports to the increase in attendance is
no doubt due to the fact that it continues to be the measuring stick of a
successful observance, and of public interest. In this connection it is to be
noted that in the early years there appeared to be greater public interest
manifested in the smaller communities than in the large centers of population; and it was believed that it was not only because there were fewer
distractions but also because the people generally were probably closer to
the institurlons they maintain and with a correspondingly greater interest
in them.
It later developed however that what seemed a lack of interest in tho
. large centers of population was probably due to the difficulty of a~tracting
the attention of any considerable proportion of the large population of a
city. With the growth and development of the observance, and by reason
of the publicity obtained through the newspapers and broadcasting stations,
this disparity disappeared; and for a long time now it has been practically
impossible to determine whether the most successful observances are in
the large centers of population or in the smaller communities.
The only thing about the matter that is fairly certain is that now, as it
always has been, the success of any observance, either with respect to
attendance or otherwise, is fairly proportionate to the zeal, industry and
intelligenc~ with which the arrangements are made and carried out. An
instance of this is furnished by the report this year from a large city in
which the public meetings constitute the dominant feature of the observance; although visits to the schools with exhibits of school work are by no
means neglected.

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We purpose referring briefly to the preliminary arrangements there
made, not merely because they resulted in an especially successful observance but also because similar arrangements, and more or less along the
sam~ lines, are now very generally pursued wherever warranted by the size
of the population.
..
In this instance the arrangements were made by a Committee appointed
through the Masters and Wardens Association under a very efficient chairman, acting in conjunction with committees representing the school department, and the Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Speakers from the Speakers Bureau of the Chamber of Commerce and
from the Speakers Bureau of the Masters and Wardens Association appeared at meetings of civic, fraternal and service organizations explaining
the purpose of Public Schools Week and seeking cooperation. Letters w~re
sent to 165 service civic women's and improvement clubs, and commercial,
patriotic and frate'rnal ~rganizations; there were also letters sent to Ministers of the Gospel suggesting how they might cooperate; 40,000 printed
invitations to the week's activities were sent to the parents through the
children in the elementary schools; letters were sent to all the Masonic
Lodges and to the Chapters of the Order of Ea~tern Star ~sking the
inclusion in their bulletins of announcements relative to Pubhc Schools
Week; attractive posters were prepared and through the courtesy of the
management displayed in all street cars; one hundred quarter cards were
placed in the retail stores and school exhibits were displayed in the st?re
windows; and in addition there was obtained the very generous cooperation
of the local newspapers and broadcasting stations, which was undoubtedly
largely responsible for the public interest aroused.
In connection with the mention of the assistance rendered by the Junior
Chamber of Commerce in the community to which reference has just been
made, it may be here noted that this year .the California Junior State
Chamber of Commerce joined with' those other state organizations which so
enthusiastically cooperate with us in the annual observance by the issuance
of proclamations and announcements to their units, and which include California Congress of Parents and Teachers, California Teachers Association,
California Department of the American Legion, Cal~fornia Federation of
Women's Clubs, California League .o f Women Voters and State Farm
Bureau Federation.
·
The service clubs seemed to be especially helpful this year. In one
community the Rotary Club, which always observes "International Boys
Week" (which ordinarily follows our observance) moved that event up one
week so that the activities might be ·coincident with, and ·made a part of,
the observance of Public Schools Week. This made possible a huge "father
and son's banquet," with more than 500 present as a part of one of the
programs presented at a high school.
Many of the service clubs made their luncheon meetings occurring
during the week a. part of the observance. In some instances the programs
presented consisted of addresses by school men or student speakers and in
others of an entertainment presented by pupils from the schools, usually of
instrumental or vocal numbers.
At one of the most interesting meetings reported a representative of
the school department answered a list of questions which had been prepared
in advance covering the details of the school system df that community,
and particularly with respect to the criticism of the curriculum of the
modern school now so often encountered. There was also another meeting in a service club· of somewhat the same sort in which the address given

GRAND LODGE OF GALIFORNIA

147

by the President of the Board of Education gave d~tails of the school system of that city from what might be termed the business point of view.
In several communities this year a service club held its luncheon meeting in a school cafeteria instead of at the usual place;• and at the conclusion
of the luncheon, at which there was usually a program of some sort presented, a large proportion of the members present remained to spend an
hour or more in personally inspecting the school and its facilities.
As has been intimated, the large increase in the number of people in
attendance at the public meetings and visiting the schools was not the only
factor contributing to the success of this year's observance. Each year now
for several years past· there has been an increase in the number of programs
evidently designed for the dissemination of information as to the aims and
purposes of modern education rather than merely for entertainment; and
as a result of the suggestions and directions contained in our bulletins and
in those issued by the State Department of Education, there is now considerable similarity everywhere in the general nature of the programs
presented.
·
Speaking generally it may be said that visits to the schools continue to
grow in popularity and seem to be preferred to the public meeting. In some
communiti'es there is what would seem to be a very happy combination of
the two features. Visits to the school are arranged for each day throughout
the week, with a public meeting on the last night and at which the program is presented by pupils from the different schools.
Each year more attention seems to be given to the detail with which
arrangements for the visits are made. There were attached to one of the
reports this year two bulletins consisting of seven pages intended for both
teachers and pupils. They included not only the outline of the plan for the
"Open House" activities. with information for the students and teachers, but
also suggestions for student discussions which were not without educational
value.
The following "heads" will give some idea of the purpose evide~tly intended to be served: I: Class discussions of the purpose, nature and
procedure of the "open house"; II: Class consideration of students' responsibility; III : Class practice or dramatization of (a) introductions; (b) assisting a guest in need of a host; (c) dealing with noisy or out-of-order groups
with a friendly reminder; (d) leave taking of friends graciously; and as
evidence of the practical value of certain suggestions made it may be noted
that under III(a) there were reminders of the way introductions should be
made, and of the desirability of pronouncing nanies carefully and giving
every syllable in the name its full value, and pointing out that a child
should always be presented to an adult and a gentleman to a lady. Included
with the other directions there were forms to be used, and others to be
avoided.
The care with which these directions were prepared must have contributed to the comfort and convenience of the visitors; and there can be
no doubt that they likewise inured to the benefit of the pupils. But there
was not always even advance notice of visits to be made, to say nothing of
directions for the reception of the visitors.
An interesting visit reported this year was by members of one of our
Lodges to the twelve district schools located in a territory fifty miles long
and twenty miles wide. At the request of the County Superintendent and
Rural Supervisor no advance notice was sent to the schools; it being the
opinion of the school people that a school should always be ready to receive
visitors. Twenty-four visits were made by members of the Lodge, and at
each school visited the pupils explained the work they were doing and the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

principal subject to which they were giving attention-such as conservation,
transportation and irrigation.
While the programs are now basically similar throughout the State
there are some features extremely popular in certain communities which
would be hardly practicable in large metropolitan areas. Of this sort is a
parade of school children with floats and school bands which mark the
opening of an observance which is concluded with an interschool track meet
and field day.
It should be remembered, too, that even what might be termed a typical
program is subject to modification and variation. "Fashion shows" in which
the girls "model" dresses they have made in school are no longer a novelty
on a school prog·ram. But one of the presentations this year was a fashion
show in which each model, after describing the material, gave in detail the
complete cost of the dress, and told how much time had been spent in
making and just what assistance, if any, she had received.
Among other very interesting programs reported this year were several
arranged to carry out selected "themes" such as "America in the Making,"
"Building America," and "California the Golden." These took several forms,
including elaborate plays and pageants illustrating episodes of American
history.
.Akin to those built around themes, there were programs publicized by
slogans designed to attract attention to the observance. At least two of
these slogans, "The 4 R's in the Forties" and "The 3 R's and the 3 C's,"
not . only apparently admirably served their primary purpose, but brought
forcefully to the attention of the patrons of the schools the fact that public
education today means far. more than the "readin' 'ritin', and 'rithmetic,
taught to the tune of a hickory stick" of our pioneer days. In all the
publicity, and through the programs and school exhibits, and wherever the
opportunity offered, it. was explained that the fourth "R" signified "Richer
Educational Opportunities," and the broadened educational methods which
distinguish the modern school; and the 3 C's were explained as "Character,
Culture and Citizenship," which it is sought to inculcate in every boy and
girl.
There would seem to be no better way to illustrate the value of such
programs than to here set forth excerpts from an extremely interesting
newspaper article (too long to· quote in its entirety as we should like to do),
written by a well known columnist.
·
After a very witty introduction in which he confesses that he is one
of those fathers who leave to the mothers the duties and responsibilities of
"parent-teachering," and explains that he was finally induced to "go back to
school" during Public Schools Week, not merely because of his wife's
determination and insistence, but also because of his interest in recent discussions of the kind of schools we have, continues:

riched its curriculum, a step made necessary by the growing complexity of civilization itself and stepping up in the minimum demand
made upon the schools by the public. It has reorganized certain old
subjects to make them appeal more strongly to the natural interests
of the child, correlating overlapping subjects both to save time and
give richness and body to the subject matter . .
'
"I was hunting the answers to certain questions which the educational discussion has raised: 'Do students now spell as well as
they used to? Is their composition and understanding and their
grammar up to par?' One paper was a girl's theme on English
literature. She had gone all the way back to Chaucer to get the
background for her work. I was surprised at .its range and grasp.
As a newspaper man with a gimlet eye for spelling I noted not one
misspelled word . . .
"There were several other papers likewise free of this defect.
One was a boy's theme on the background and origins of the first
World war . . . I wish we could get cub reporters who could
turn out jobs like that. It would save many an old city editor and
copy desk man from the nuthouse. I even wish the people who
write letters denouncing the schools would spell as well and write
as grammatically as do those students."
Now the conclusions of this honest seeker for information are not
quoted as an encomium of our public schools; but rather as evidence of
the fact that it was through Public Schools Week that he was afforded th'e
opportunity to find out just "what sort of a job the schools are doing with
all the students.''
While a visit to a school is undoubtedly the best way to ascertain the
facts, it is not the only way afforded during Public Schools Week; and of
only little less value are the panel and forum discussions which each year
seem to be growing in popularity.
The panels and forums this year· were of all sorts and kinds with subjects no less varied. What must have been an extremely interesting one
was developed under the title "Youth Looks at the Schools," and in which
the participants were all students representing, respectively, a high school,
a continuation school, a trade school, a junior college, and a state college.
It is significant that one of these young men deprecated the fact that so
much attention is being given to games in which the great mass of students ·
do not participate; and that received with evident approval was the expression of an opinion that for the large majority of the youth of our land there
was today greater need than in the past for industrial and technical education as a part of the training for good citizenship.
Again this year there was a large amount of informative literature
distributed to those in attendance at the meetings or visiting the schools.
Especially noteworthy was a little booklet with the title "Do You Know"
containing material assembled by the teachers of an elementary school system giving information in the words of the booklet, "concerning odd and
little known facts about the school system and explaining the reading program in the grades."
The items of information were set forth in nine pages of very short
paragraphs of two or three lines each with perhaps ten or twelve on a page,
with the heading on each page "Do You Know?" With other information
there were given names of books enjoyed by the children in the different
classes. This information of itself should be valuable to those who have
occasion to make gifts of books to children.
Many of the items in the booklet concern only that particular school
system. There is however considerable information of a general nature.
Incidentally, the 3 Rs and the 3 Cs receive attention in this form:

148

"Now despite my avoidance of parent-teacher doings, I have a
very real interest in education. It has manifested itself in reading
a good deal of the professional literature on the subject, including
John Dewey and the dull but encyclopedic Cubberly, the Gibbon
of the educational historians. On my visit to
Junior High,
where our son attends, I wanted not only to find out the worst
about him but what sort of a job the schools are doing with all
the students . . .
"My visit was too brief for any such an ambitious inquiry but I
did get some reassuring impressions. . . . From what I saw _I
do not think that
has gone off the deep end on what ts
called 'progressive education.' At least not if one means educational
faddism-'lollypops instead of learning.' It has broadened and en-

149

150

PROCEEDINGS . OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Do You Know":
"That the 3Rs still receive from 95% in first and second
grades to 75% in seventh and eighth grades of school time?"
"That the 3Cs-Character, Citizenship and Culture are
taught by definite lessons as well as woven through all other
subjects?"
"That these 3Cs are more 'caught than taught' so great care
is taken to surround children with the best training obtainable?"
It would thus appear that in every way possible those to whom we
entrust the administration of our schools, and the education of our children,
seek to have us know just what they are doing and why it is being done.
And if there is one thing to which more than to any other the success of
our latest observance may be attributed (no reference now being had to
the individuals and organizations actually responsible therefor) it is the
fact that never before apparently was there so much intelligent questioning
and so little captious criticism on the part of the public.
·
Of course our public schools are not completely fulfilling the hopes of
the layman. They never have done so and in all probability they never will.
There is however nothing strange about this. Indeed it would be extraordinary if it were otherwise; because there is no problem with which we are
confronted-social, economic, industrial or political-domestic or foreignfor the solution of which we do not look to public education.
There will therefore probably never come a time when there will not
be some criticism of what our schools are doing or leaving undone ; and
the answer to the question "What the School Should Teach?" will not be
found until we first find the answer to that other question asked by Herbert
Spencer "What Knowledge Is of Most Worth?"
There can be no doubt, of course, that our public schools should teach
what the people who support them want taught; but what the people want
taught should be determined by an informed opinion based on knowledge
and experience and not by one which results from the hysteria occasioned
by criticism more likely to be well intended than well informed. On one
thing at least it would seem there should be general agreement. And that is
that there should result from what is taught and the way it is taught a belief
in, and an adequate preparation for, the democratic way of life where no one
will claim for himself a right or privilege he would deny another, and where
with every right and privilege there go corresponding. duties and responsibilities.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
ROBERT A . ODELL,
]OHN B. BEMAN,
MELVIN E. BOWMAN,

L.

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
ALTER L. BACHRODT,
ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN
Rav W. CLOUD,
VIRGILE. DICKSON,
ELIAS E. ELLISON,
C. BURNHAM HERYFORD,
CHARLES
HUGHES,

w

E. CHENOWETH,
A. R. CLIFI'ON,
WILL
CRAWFORD,
PERCY R. DAVIS,
DR. W.i\LTER
GOODFELLOW,
F. A. HENDERSON,
EINAR
JACOBSEN,
VIERLING KERSEY,
WESLEY
KERGAN,
JOHN A. SEXSON,
FREDERICK F. MARTIN,
STEADMAN G. SMITH,
' JOSEPH P. NOURSE,
CHARLES E. TEACH,
WILLIAM G. PADEN,
JESSE W. WARNER,
VAUGHAN MAcCAUGHEY.

c.

v.

c.
w.

w.

. Report adopted.

151

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCING
BUILDING PROJECTS
To the M.' . W.'. Grand Lodge of California :
During the year ending September 30, 1940, your committee has reviewed the following projects in accordance with the provisions contained
in Section 152 of the Ordinances:
Salinas Lodge No. 204, F. & A. M., situated at Salinas:
Your committee approved the request of this Lodge for perm1ss1on
to purchase capital stock in the Masonic Hall Association of Salinas with
Lodge funds, not to exceed $1,000.00 in amount, for the purpose of purchasing a new carpet and making necessary repairs to the Lodgeroom.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486, F. & A. M., situated in Bakersfield:
The Caledonia Building Association has recently completed the construction of a Masonic Temple at East Bakersfield, which cost approximately $30,000.00. An additional $6,000.00 is needed to fully complete the
project, and to provide the necessary funds for this purpose the Association proposed to negotiate a loan of $3,000.00 from the Bank of America,
and to borrow $3,000.00 from the Lodge for one year, unsecured, at three
per cent interest.
The Lodge requested your committee to approve this latter proposed
loan. After carefully considering the matter your committee was of the
opinion that such a: loan could not be approved for the reason that Section
87 of the Constitution specifically sets forth the classes of investments in
which Lodg~ . funds may be invested, and this proposed loan does not fall ·
within any of the classes contained in this section.
An alternative plan was presented to your committee, whereby the
Lodge sought permission to purchase $3,000.00 of capital stock in the
Caledonia Building Association with Lodge funds, the Lodge having heretofore invested $4,000.00 in the Association's stock. The financial statement
furnished your committee reflects that the Lodge has in excess of $5,000.00
cash on hand. The Lodge herein having complied with the constitutional
requirements and suggestions · of your committee, approval was accordingly given.
Laurel Lodge No. 245, F. & A. M., situated in Willows:
Your committee approved a request from this Lodge to purchase not
to exceed fifteen shares of the outstanding stock in the Willows Masonic
Temple Association at $100.00 per share with funds of the Lodge. The
assets of the Temple Association exceed $40,000.00, all the common stock
being owned by the Lodge, and more than 60 per cent of the preferred
stock, valued at $20,000.00, being .also owned by the Lodge. Your committee
noted the fact that in addition to the foregoing, the Lodge is free from
debt, with $2,548.00 cash on hand.
Mission Lodge No. 169, F. & A. M., and Mission Lodge Masonic Hall
Association, situated in San Francisco:
The Hall Association owns 54 feet frontage on Mission street upon
which is erected a two-story building (stores on the lower floor, and Lodgeroom, banquet hall, etc., on the upper floor) entirely free of all encumbrance.

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Association also owns 54 feet adjoining, upon which it desires to erect
a one-story building, in addition to making certain repairs and alterations
to the present structure, ~t an estimated cost of $75,000.00.
Mission Lodge has In excess of '$104,000.00 cash on hand and owns
4403 of the 5000 shares of the Hall Association. To finance the building.
project your committee approved a plan whereby the stock structure of
the Association was increased from $50,000.00 to $150,000.00, and the Lodge
was permitted to purchase $75,000.00 of the capital stock of the Association. In this connection the building plans and specifications were also approved.
East Bay Lodge No. 489; .F . & A. M., situated in Berkeley:
This Lodge was desirous of acquiring all the outstanding stock of the
East Bay Masonic Building Association, which is its meeting place. Your
committee was requested to approve "as broad a permit as it is possible
to grant, and for as long a term period as the Grand Lodge regulations
will permit." The past history of the Association, and financial statements
submitted were found to be entirely satisfactory.
Your committee approved the request in principle, but due to the
human equation on the part of the Lodge, as well as on the part of your
committee, we feel that no permit of this nature for an unlimited duration
should be granted, for the reason that those charged with the administration
of the financial problems of the Lodge and Building Association, as well
as the members of the Grand Lodge Committee on Financing Building
Projects may retire, thus leaving matters of this nature in the hands of
those uninformed of the present situation. Your committee therefore
granted permission to East Bay Lodge to purchase a reasonable amount
of stock from time to time with the understanding that the approval of
your Committee be obtained whenever such purchase is deemed advisable
to be made.
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, F. & A. M., situated in Sacramento:
This. Lodge desires to erect a Masonic Temple upon a lot which it now
owns "free and clear," at an estimated cost of $11,000.00. The Lodge has
approximately $650.00 cash on hand and owns sufficient furnishings. The
Lodge has 160 members, and $9.00 dues.
The Lodge proposed to sell between 50 and 75 life memberships at
$160.00 each, and use the proceeds of such sales to defray the cost of the
building project.
·
Your committee is precluded from giving its approval to such a plan
of finance by the very provisions of Section 152 of the Ordinances, which
provides that "all investments by a Lodge of its funds, including its life
membership fund, shall be in securities ·prescribed as legal by the laws of
the State of California . . . Under. no circumstances shall life membership· funds be invested other than in sec~rities as above set forth."
Your committee, by personal contact with the building committee of
the Lodge, and by correspondence, suggested several methods of finance to
the Lodge for its consideration, which have been proven as feasible and
practicable.
Guardian Lodge No. 596, F. & A. M., and "596 Club, Inc.," situated at
South Gate:
The 596 Club, Inc., has for two years communicated with your committee for the purpose of working out a satisfactory plan of finance in
connection wiih a proposed building to be used for Masonic purposes.
This corporation is composed of members of Guardian Lodge exclusively,

GRAND IOIIGE OF CALIFORNIA

153

and owns five contiguous lots, that are fully paid for. A story and a half
type of building is proposed that will co.st approximately $20,000.00.
The Lodge and the corporation have secured donations of labor and
materials worth approximately $10,000.00, and the balance of the cost is
to be raised, so that the buikling will be fully paid for upon completion.
After numerous conferences, at which a member of your committee was present, to assist these brethren in consummating their plans,
your committee acted as follows: ·
First, the plans and specifications were approved.
Second, it was expressly understood that at no time during the construction of the building would any part of the work be commenced without sufficient funds being on hand with which to pay for same, so that the
entire project will be fully paid for upon completion.
Third, that before work is commenced a member of your committee
is to be consulted.
On condition that all the representations made to your committee are
punctually executed, Guardian Lodge was given permission to eriter into a
ten year lease with the corporation at $125.00 per month.
Triangle Lodge No. 548, F. & A. M., and Triangle Temple Association,
situated at Venice:
Your committee granted permission to this Tem11le Corporation to
proceed with their plans for the erection of a Masonic Temple on the following showing:
The corporation owns a lot in the city of Venice, which is to be used
for a building site, "free and clear"; and has approximately $1,200.00 cash
on hand. Plans for the construction of a building costing approximately
$8,000.00 were submitted and approved by your committee.
An F. H . A. loan in the amount of $2,500.00 was consummated. Triangle Lodge was permitted to invest $1,000.00 in the capital stock of the
corporation from its Lodge funds, which, according to the financial statement submitted to your committee, and other representations that were
made, the Lodge has accumulated and set aside for this purpose. The
Lodge also owns certain furniture and other personal property valued at
$3,200.00, which it proposes to sell to the corporation for use in the new
building. The balance of approximately $3,000.00 to be raised by voluntary subscriptions from the membership in the nature of donations. Assurances were given to your committee that all possible costs have . been
fully considered.
Triangle Lodge was given permission to enter into a lease with the
Temple Corporation for a term of four years at $75.00 per month rental.
Lancaster Lodge No. 437, F. & A. M., and Lancaster Masonic Building
Association, situated at Lancaster:
During the month of May of this year your committee approved plans
of finance and building plans for the construction of a Masonic building
in this city, which, according to the contractor's estimate is to cost $11,600.00.

The association owns a lot valued at $700.00, "free and clear," and
has $7,650.00 cash on hand. Debentures in the amount of $6,000.00 are
to be issued, which will mature in 1955.
Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites held a number of consultations
with the officers of the Building Association in connection with this
project.

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Subsequently the Secretary of the Lodge informed the chairman of
your committee that the Elk's Lodge of Lancaster desired to engage in a
building enterprise that might be jointly owned. It is contemplated that
the Elk's Lodge would maintain a bar in the building. Your committee
referred the secretary of the Building Association to the decision of Grand
Master James B. Gist in 1933, without giving consideration to any proposed consolidatioh.
Imperial Lodge No. 360, F. & A. M., situated at Imperial:
The building owned by the Lodge and used as its meeting place was
seriously damaged as the result of the earthquake. of May 18th.
Your committee approved a request that the Lodge borrow $3,000.00
from the Disaster Loan Corporation, payable at the rate of $30.00 per
month, for the purpose of repairing their building.
Correspondence was had .with Natoma Lodge No. 64 at Folsom, Mount
Davidson Lodge No. 481 at San Francisco, Menlo Park Lodge No. 651 at
Menlo Park, Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528 and Beverly Hills Masonic
Building Association of Beverly Hills. No permission, however, was
granted for the expenditure of any funds.
Your committee has devoted a great deal of its time during the past
year in assisting several Lodges and Temple Associations in arriving at a
solution to their financial problems, some of which have taken on a very
serious aspect. ' In this connection Past Grand Masters Filmer and Crites
of your committee held several meetings with the representatives of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336,.and the Masonic Temple Association of Fruitvale, to
assist them in solving their financial problems. We at this time report that
the brethren of the Lodge and Temple Association have endeavored to
cooperate with your committee in every respect. We understand that arrangements have been made with the bank holding the mortgage on their
building, whereby the loan is to be materially reduced by January 1, 1941.
Brother Russell C. Horstmann, president of the Temple Association, has
assured your committee that everything possible will be done to liquidate
the entire indebtedness against the property. The brethren of Fruitvale
Lodge unanimously agreed to raise their dues to $32.00 per year, that this
might be accomplished.
Your committee is desirous of expressing its appreciation to Brother
Frank C. Ruppel of the Committee on Finance for the valuable assistance
he has rendered in connection with the Fruitvale and Natoma Lodge mat.ters herein reported.
Your committee has received full cooperation from all the officers,
Lodges and Temple Associations in their effort to comply with both the
spirit and letter of the Constitution governing the investment of funds and
building of Masonic Temples.
WILLIAM

P. FILMER,

ARTHUR S. CRITES,
HERBERT

Report adopted.

c. GOLDMAN,
Committee.

155

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC EDUCATION
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of Califo,.nia:
Unexpected word has ~eached· us o( the serious illness of the chairman
of this committee, Brother A. Heber Winder. He was unable to attend
this communication and was also prevented, by the orders of his physician, from preparing the report of the committee. Therefore the report
will be brief and lacking in details with which only the chairman of · tlie
committee is. familiar.
The work of the committee during the past year has been along two
general lines. First, we have been engaged in a revision of the pamphlets
previously published on Masonic education; secondly, ·w e have continued
our endeavors to obtain a more general use of the Lodge system of Masonic
education.
The pamphlet entitled "Masonic Law and Custom" has been revised
by us and is now in the hands of the printer. This pamphlet was originally
composed several years ago by the :g-ducational Committee of Grand Lodge.
Three editions have been printed and distributed. As the supply of the
third edition was about exhausted we were requested to revise and prepare
a fourth edition. We have tried to make as few changes as possible, but
we did bring the text of the manuscript down to date. We have endeavored
to make it conform with alterations in the Constitution and other changes
in law and custom. The revised manuscript was submitted to Most Worshipful Past Grand Master John Stewart Ross for his approval as to statements of Masonic law. Two thousand copies have been ordered from the
printer; they will be paid for out of funds in the hands of the Grand Secretary, received from the sale of previous copies; and they will be ready
for distribution on or before November 1st. This booklet has been one of
the "best sellers" . issued by Grand Lodge, and it ·is anticipated that its
popularity will continue. It sells for five cents a copy and is one of the
most concise and readable things that has ever been published on the subject. We suggest that all Lodges will do well to keep a supply on hand
and to distribute them gratis to all members who are interested. Many
Lodges follow the practice of presenting a copy to each candidate immedi:ftely after the conferring of his third degree, aqd we commend this practice.
The pamphlet entitled "Manual on Masonic Education" is also being
revised by the committee. The revised manuscript will be ready for printing prior to the time that the present supply is exhausted. Over seventysix hundred copies have already been distributed to the Craft throughout
the state. It is expected that the first edition of ten thousand copies will
be exhausted during the year and it will then be necessary to order the
printing of a new supply. They will be paid for out of funds which have
been received by the Grand Secretary through previous sales. In other
words the work is self-supporting now, as the money received from previous sales will take care of the expenses for the next publication.
Substantial progress has been made, we consider, in putting the Lodge
system of Masonic education into practical operation. The committee feels
that it has had the active cooperation of the officers of Grand Lodge and
the officers of constituent Lodges. We earnestly urge your continued interest and activity.
The committee has met and will continue to meet the needs of Masonic

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

education in this jurisdiction. We therefore make the following recommendations:

(~) That the Committee on Masonic Education be continued next
year, its members to be appointed by the incoming Grand Master.
. (2) That the use of the Lodge system of Masonic education be continued.
·
(3) That the sum of $300 be appropriated from the funds of Grand
Lodge for the incidental expenses of this committee.
Respectfully submitted",

157

3Jn ~ranb JLobge
MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, Octo her 9, 1940.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.

I

REYNOLD BLIGHT,
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN,
DELBERT BERRY,
CYRIL W. McCLEAN,

Committee.

The Grand Master announced the appointment of William
B. Pettus as Grand Chaplain pro tern.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were. read and approved.

RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED

Oakley K . Morton and others presented a resolution, proposing to amend Subsection 5 of Section 97 of the Ordinances, by
eliminating the fee for a dispensation to receive and act upon
an application for degrees from a person who belongs to the
army or navy of the United States. Referred to the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes.

By C. E. Mallachowitz, Caledonia Lodge No. 486.: To amend Section
100 of the Ordinances by eliminating the $25.00 Home fee for affiliates
from other jurisdictions.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RESEARCH LODGES

Report adopted .except the recommendations, which were
referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
on Finance.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By J~risprudence Committee : To amend Section 202 of the Ordinances
by rest~rmg .the pr~visions requiring Secretaries to report suspensions and
res!orations 1mmed1ately after their occurrence.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By .Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams: Tha; Section 263 of
the Ord1~anc~s be repealed. This section now provides that every Master
Mason, his widow and orphans, has the right to ask for relief.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
.At 4 :20 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 o'clock
Wednesday morning. ·

To the M: . W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
At the annual communication of 1939 the Grand Master directed the
attention of this Grand Lodge to the fact that some grand jurisdictions
have established research lodges for the purpose of engaging in Masonic
research and giving to the Craft the results of their reports in printed form,
and stated that he felt that this Grand Lodge could materially contribute to
the cause of Masonic research by authorizing the establishment of one or
more such lodges in this jurisdiction. He recommended that the incoming
Grand Master be empowered to appoint a committee of three to investigate
the advisability of the establishment of such lodges and to report at this
annual communication. The Grand Master appointed your committee to ·
make such examination and report .
It is common knowledge that the Lodge Quatuor Coronati No. 2076
of London, England, is the outstanding research lodge in the Masonic
world. It has forty-two regular members and about six thousand five hundred · contributing members. Its revenues are sufficient to enable it to publish a quarterly journal, which furnishes to thousands of Masons the results
of the research and activities of this particular group of scholars. Undoubtedly the inspiration far the formation of research lodges in the American grand jurisdictions was drawn from this old and highly respected
Lodge, which devotes itself to Masonic archaeology, literature and research.
It is not acting under any special conditions or privileges, but is a regularly chartered and constituted Lodge, with the same privileges, and subject to the same rules, as that of any other duly constituted subordinate
Lodge of the . United Grand Lodge of England.
The Grand Lodges of New York, North Carolina, Oregon and Georgia have authorized the formation of a special type of lodge to engage in·
research.
That organized in New York is proceeding along the same general

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

lines as the Quatuor Coronati and has three classes of memberships, active,
correspondence and fellowship.
·
The research lodge in Oregon arranges for the presentation of addresses and papers before Lodges throughout the State, and in addition
to the forty-five members they have memberships known as contributing
Lodges and also corresponding members.
In Georgia the Grand Lodge authorized the Masonic Educational
Commission to organize lodges of research and the establishment of a
Grand Lodge library. This commission publishes the Masonic Messenger
as a medium for presenting the work of the commission and formed a
mother lodge of research to assist the commission in the promulgation of
regulations to . govern local research lodges and courses of study. The
mother lodge appears to be composed of the four members of the commission and three Grand Lodge officers. The vested power and authority
over the mother lodge and the local research lodges are in the Masonic
Educational and Historical Commission, which causes the mother lodge
to issue charters for local research lodge's. It further appears that the purpose of the lodges of research is solely of an educational and instructive
nature, and that they have none of the prerogatives or characteristics of
a chartered Lodge of the Grand Lodge. Charters have been issued by the
commission to twenty-six local research lodges.
Our information is vague relative to the activities of the research
lodge of North Carolina, but we are informed that it is largely devoted 10
Masonic history.
From its studies your committee is of the opinion that the work of
research lodges, with the exception of the one in New York, is fully covered by our Committee on Masonic History, the Committee on Education,
and the District Inspectors meetings. The field we do not cover is that of
extended archaeological and literary examination o.f original sources and
the publication of the findings presented in papers and reports. Masonry is
young in California and our Committee on Ma.s onic History can cover that
field in this state. We are far distant from original sources of an archaeological and literary interest and of necessity our research therein must be
by the reading and studying of the results of those who have done the
real research work.
Notwithstanding these facts, it is entirely possible that a research
lodge or lodges could do interesting and effective work in the study of
Masonic lore, but until a group or groups of Masons are banded together
and undertake the work of research, or the study of Masonry, and find it
expedient or desirable that the group be clothed in the form of a Lodge,
it is not possible for your committee to recommend the particular type of
lodge and the incidental legislation that would be appropriate. We are
not opposed to the formation of a research lodge when a real demand
arises therefor, but we think this Grand Lodge is not justified in setting
. up a system which may never be put into ·operation. We should not change
our Lodge system in the hope that at some time some one may be interested
in taking .advantage of the changes in our law. We therefore recommend
that no action be taken at this time in the matter of establishing research
lodges.
WM. RHODES HERVEY, .
LEON 0. WHITSELL,
G. ELLSWORTH MEYER,

Committee.

The report was adopted.

159

REPORT OF HIST ORY COMMITTEE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Com~ittee on Masonic History begs leave to subll!it t.he followreport of its activities during the past year, together with its reco.mm~ndations. We are pleased to report substantial progress .in the ~ollecbo~
f h. t · 1 data and in uncovering many important and mterestmg fact
1s onca
· •s most
orelative
to the lives and activities of some o f C
. a 1'f
1 ornia
.
hcolorful
Masonic characters-men who played a conspicuous part m t e ear1Y
history of our State.
We have been signally fortunate in obtaining access to sou~ce m~l
terial which throws new light on many Maso.nic characters, and which "".1\
enable the committee to more clearly and with reason~ble accurac~ dep1c
the highly important role which these brethren played .m t~e Amencamzation and the resultant development and progress of Cahforma. . .
Members of the committee, pursuant to requests from districts and
Lodges have delivered historical talks throughout the State. One me7'~er
has res~onded generously in del.ivering talks illustrated by lantern s 1 es
showing the objects or persons discussed.
. .
We have par.t icipated in the ninetieth annivers~y observance of Bemc1a
Lodge No. 5, the seventy-fifth anniversary ?f Antioch L.odge No. 175, of
Phoenix Lodge No. 178, and the fiftieth .anmversa;y of Liberty Lodge ~o.
299. The committee has furnished historical. ~atenal to ~odges. celebrat1?g
anniversaries, and to numerous Lodges desiring to publish their local hisin

•

•

tory.
.
. I
. I t th
We have added a considerable amount of new h1stonca. matena o e
files and for museum display. Notable among such mate;1al h~s been. the
stirring story of Walter Wilcox, the Masonic orphan, which will be given
following this report.
.
We are deeply indebted to the Lodges of the Ha:waiian Islands this
ear for the loan of much valuable material for our display. Among the
hems are those used by kings and royalty of the islands when. they w~~e
serving the Lodge in the same manner as brethren of the ordinary wa s
of life.
1 t ·1
Brother Mark A. Sawrie, a member of this committee, has vo un an Y
undertaken the arduous task of indexing the forty.- four volumes .of Gra!1~
Lodge Proceedings This work is intended to cover every subJect, w1~
ro er cross-refere~ces, and is quite complete up to the year 1880; t e
fnd~x file now contains 15,000 cards. This important w~rk has ?een cai:ried 011 over the space of one year and it is conservat1v~1y es~1mated it
·11 take Brother Sawrie something like two years to brmg this task to
~~mpletion. This labor of love on the part of this highly ~ompetent m.ember
o• the committee will greatly assist in the final preparation of our h1~tory,
· d ill be of value and benefit to all members of the Craft. who desire to
a~rs,% research and study of the multitudinous ma~ters ~h1ch have come
hefore Grand Lodge since 1850, and the records of its actions thereon.
We hope shortly to acquire some. additi.onal important documents and
material relative to the social and business hfe of Robert Semi:le, who wa~
resident of the Constitutional Cqiiyention held in Monterey. m 18~9, a?
~ho donated the lumber for the first Masonic temple erected m Cahforma,
which still stands in the city of Berticia.
We are still endeavoring to fully identify all members of the "Mormon

160

l'ROCEEDI!liGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Batallion," who came to California with General Kearny in 1847, and who
wer_e members. of th~ I;odge at Nauvoo, Illinois. Also to identify all those
having. Masonic affiliations who took part in the San Francisco Vigilante
Comm1!tees of 1851 and 1856 ; the Jay Hawker's Party, which crossed Death
Valley m 1849, and members of the Constitutional Committee of 1879.
We expect to complete our studies of the life history of Abel Stearns
by a. careful perusal a?d analy~is of the private papers of Stearns recently
ac_qu1red by the Huntington Library and now made available to the committee. We trust that these ~rivate a_nd official papers may solve and fully
:inswer the many controversial questions surrounding the activities of this
important personage in ~he pre-American days of California when Abel
Stearns, alth?ugh a Mexican ~itizen, was reputed to be the' secret agent
o~ th~ American . government m Southern California, working under the
direction of Thomas 0. Larkin, the American consul, who was stationed
at Monterey.

The cabin he occupied was the cabin used by the Peter Breen family
during their enforced stay at the lake two years later.
Josiah Belden, afterward a member of San Jose Lodge No. 10, came
to California in 1841, and by hard work and unusual ability, became one
of Central California's most prosperous and influential businessmen-so
much so that he was able to retire in 1851, having amassed a very substantial fortune.
We find that W. H. Eddy, a member of the Donner party, who played
a rather heroic part in the rescuing of several members of that party, was
a Mason, afterward affiliated with San Jose Lodge No. 10.
We have recently ascertained that Quila Glover, who was a member
of the first relief party which left Sutter's Fort and rescued members of
the Donner party, was a Mason. He was made a Mason in .a so-called
"Mormon Lodge" at Nauvoo, under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge
of Illinois.
In 1853 two members of our Fraternity, P. H. Poindexter and W . C.
Orr, embarked in the cattle business in Siskiyou county and they selected
as their brand the square and compass. Afterward they settled near Dillon,
Montana, and there the square and compass is still registered in the name
of the Poindexter & Orr Livestock Company.
We find a rather peculiar coincidence in the name and number of
Western Star Lodge No. 2, and we have searched through the blue book
containing •the list of all regular Lodges recognized by the Grand Lodge
of California, and we find no other similar parallel of name and number.
There are three Western Star Lodges with the No. 2, and they are as
follows:
Western Star No. 2 at Shasta, California;
Western Star No. 2 at Little Rock, Arkansas;
Western Star No. 2 at Nebraska City, Nebraska.
The Western Star Lodge No. 2 at Little Rock was the Lodge in which
Albert Pike received his degrees.
On May 21, 1940, there passed away at Tres Pinos the oldest Mason
in California, bo.th in point of years of life, and of membership: Daniel
McDonald, 102 years, 4 months, and 21 days old at the time of his death.
Brother McDonald had the distinction of being the only California Mason
to receive a seventy-five year pin, emblematic of his seventy-five years of
membership in the Fraternity. He was born in Nova Scotia and there
made a Mason. He lived an active life in several states, most notably in
Utah, Nevada and California. He was a member of San Benito Lodge
No. 211.
On September 12th our Most Worshipful Grand Master presented a
fifty-year button to Brother John Larrabee of McKinley Lodge No. 347
at Richmond. Seven of the Lodge stations were filled by members who
wore fifty-year buttons. The senior brother had been a Mason for sixtythree years. Other stations were filled by brothers with twenty-five or
more years of service to Masonry. A rather unique and unusual meeting.
We again respectfully urge the constituent Lodges to keep scrap books
in which may be pasted newspaper clippings, Lodge programs, and other
printed matter rel<!ting to the activities of the members, the Lodge, and the
community. In the future these printed records of Lodge and membership
activities and the biographies of local Masons, etc., will be particularly
interesting to newly-made Masons and will greatly assist in the future
compilation of historical data.
In view of the fact that there is still additional work to be perfected

Amon~ the i~teresting _items collected by your committee during the
year we might briefly mention the following:
The ~uthentic history.of Dr. Benjamin Cory, who arrived in California
.
in 1847 with the Hawes party and who subsequently became a charter member of San Jose Lodge No. 10. Brother Cory was for many years San
Jose's most useful and honored citizen.
We have perfected the history of James F. Reed, a member of the
Donner party, who played a leading role in the development and history
of Santa Clara county.
After t~o years of painstaking research we have at last secured a
comprehensive story of the Masonic and professional life of Dr. John
Tov.:nsend.' In 1844 Brother Townsend headed an immigrant party to Califorma w~1ch was known as the Townsend party. He practiced medicine
~t Sutter s Fort and served as Captain Sutter's aide during the revolution
~n 1845: He served as alcalde in San Francisco and was actively engaged
·in pubhc school work. He invested heavily and profitably in San Francisco
real es~ate. Subsequently he moved to San Jose and there practiced his
pro~ession and was one of the fifteen petitioners for dispensation to orgamze San Jose Lodge No. 10.
A similar fate to that of the Donner party in the winter of 1S46-47 was
faced by another immigrant party at the same spot, Donner take, in 1844,
?r t"'.o yea~s before the Donner tragedy. The Elisha Stevens party, formed
. m Missouri ea.rly i? 1844, arrived at the lake the middle of November. Bad
weather was immi?ent. T.heir safety from the deep snow depended upon
the u~most speed in crossing the mountains. They hurriedly constructed
a cabin and stored the greater portion of their goods therein. The party
then h~stened westward, leaving three boys who volunteered to stay in
the cabin and look after the goods. One of the three was Morris Shallenberger, a boy of seventeen.
·
A short . time after the departure of the party the food in the cabin

b~came practically exhausted. The three boys attempted to cross the moun-

t~ins. Young Shallenberger became violently ill and his companions helped
him back to the cabin. He insisted that they leave him in the cabin and
attempt to reach Sutter's Fort. Several days after they left young Shallenberger recovered sufficiently to find, among the things left in the cabin
some steel traps and, although there was fourteen feet of snow on th~
ground, he managed to trap fox, which constituted his only food until
he was rescued, exhausted and near starvation, by a party early in the
spring.

161

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

before we can, with a clean conscience, declare our history to be well done
and ready to be perpetuated in printed form, we recommend that the Committee on Masonic History be continued and that an appropriation of $250.00
be granted.
Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL,
MARK A. SA WRIE,
W. C. ARBUCKLE,
A. CHALFANT,
ROSCOE L. CLARK,
CHAS. E. HASS,
CHAS. R. INGRAM,
WILSON E. NEWLON,
THOMAS NORRIS,
DAVID TULLOCH,
BENJ. w. BRYANT,
MILLARD W. YOUNG,
MARTIN C. ARTHUR, ,

w.

Committee.

. ~he rep?rt was adopted, excepting the request for an appropriation, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
In connection w.ith the report of the Committee on History,
Brother Mark Sawne. related the story of the adoption by Grand
Lodge_ of Waiter W1Jc?x, who had l<;:>st his parents by yellow
fever in. New Orleans tn 1877, and had been sent to his grandmother in Oakl~nd. Brother Sawrie related very interestingly the
full story of this boy, ending up by introducing him as Brother
\Vatter Wilcox, a Master Mason.

163

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California: .
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an analysis of the consolidated returns from the Lodges of this jurisdiction:
1936
GAINS
Raised .............................. 2663
Affiliated ·---······-·············
948
Restored ........................
668
LossEs
Withdrawn .................... . 1075
Non-payment dues ...... 2691
Died
2091
Dues remitted .............. 4987
Total membership...... 127,728
Net loss .................... -1598
O O O OOOH , .• • • 0 • • 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . . 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . .

1937

1938

1939

1940

5-yr. av.

3374
948
584

3329
1054
557

3254
1046
486

2995
1057
456

3123
1010
550

1128
965
1075
1053
1059
2253
2036
1804
2167
2053
2105
1973
2054
2105
2065
4358
4420
4489
4515
4553
127,301 127,122 126,739 126,185 127,015
-628
-427
-182
-383
-554

Our net loss in membership has increased steadily during the ·past
three years to 554 compared with 383 in 1939, and 182 in 1938.
•·
This year we show a reduction in members raised an<f also a reduction
in suspension of members for non-payment of dues.
For the past five y'ears we have averaged a loss by suspension for nonpayment of dues, 2167, and have restored an average of 550, or 25 per cent.
Your committee is of the opinion that greater effort should be made
to increase the number of restorations of those suspended for non-payment
of dues. We believe there are vastly too many former member.s outside
of Masonry for our general good. This is a rich field for extensjon of
brotherly love and helpfulness.
HENRY G. MATHEWSON,
ALBERT F. Ross,
WILLIAM W. McKEE,
IRVING MAGNES,
ALBERT C, WOLLENBERG,
LELAND E. MINGES,
LEMUEL L. Cov,

Committee.

Report was adopted.

164

rROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

ANNUAL RETURNS-1940
Name or Lodge

1 California..........- .......
2 Western Star............•
3 Tehama..............·--···
s Benicia............- ..........
8 Tuolumne...................
9 Corinthian....- ...........•.
IO San Jose......................
12 Yount....................•..._.
13 Nevada......................_
14 Temple........................
16 Eureka......................17 La Parfaite Union....
18 Mountain Shade........
19 San Joaquin.....·-······20 Washington......•.•~ ...•
21 Hawaiian.........·-········
22 Occidental...•...............
23 Madison...............·-··24 Mariposa......•.•...- .......
:.:s Georgetown..............•.
26 Et Dorado................_
27 Trinity············-····-···30 Golden Gate..·-·-·-··32 Gold Hill...·-··---- ···33 Ophir...........................
35 San Diego...........·-·····
37 Howard..............••.....•
38 Santa Cruz.•...·-····-40 Sacramento........•.- •...
41 Martinez.....................
42 Los Angeles.......;........
43 Hiram.........•~...............
44 Mount Moriah...........
4S Crescent City............•
46 Texas........•..................
so F orbestown...:.·...........
Sl lllinoistown................
SS Suisun.........................
S6 Volcano.......................
S7 Santa Rosa .................
S8 Union............•..·-····- ···
S9 Gravel Range.............
60 Plumas...........·-···-····
61 Live Oak....................•
64 Natoma.......................
6S Amador ...............·-·····
66 Forest................•....- ..
68 Morning Star.............
70 Enterprise..................•
76 Bear Mountain......•....
78 Calaveras....................
79 Humboldt....................
80 lone..............................

General
~'und

428.2S
9S.2S
398.7S
104.2S
1Sl.2S
209.00
331.2S
226.SO
99.00
92.SO
146.SO
98.2S
34.00
416.00
414.SO
2S3.2S
S60.SO
180.7S
128.2S
44.2S
14S.7S
89.00
493.SO

77.7S
44.7S
399.2S
1S9.2S
2S0.7S
393.00
16S.SO
53S.SO
44.7S
291.50
108.7S
31.00
40.2S
48.7S
100.SO
3S.SO
292.00
416.50

so.so

86.SO
677.SO
100.SO
S2.00
32.2S
337.2S
1S7.2S
53.2S
S9.75
238.7S
66.00

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

21S.60
41.20
187.60
S4.00
76.40
lOS.60
162.80
104.80
49.60
42.40
72.80
S0.80
16.00
206.40
204.00
127.60
280.80
80.40
62.00
20.40
69.20
40.00
24S.60
37.20
19.60
196.40
73.20
123.60
201.60
8S.60
263.20
19.60
148.00
S3.20
16.00
20.40
26.00
48.80
13.60
140.80
200.80
16.80
39.20
341.60
48.80
27.20
17.20
161.20
81.20
26.80
30.80
123.60
27.20

269.SO
Sl.50
234.SO
67.SO
9S.SO
132.00
203.SO
131.00
62.00
S3.00
91.00
63.SO
20.00
2S8.00
2SS.OO
1S9.SO
3Sl.OO
100.SO
77.SO
2S.SO
86.SO
S0.00
307.00
46.SO
24.SO
24S.SO
91.50
1S4.SO
2S2.00
107.00
329.00
24.SO
l8S.OO
66.SO
20.00
2S.SO
32.SO
61.00
17.00
176.00

2S1.00
21.00
49.00
427.00
61.00
34.00
21.SO
201.SO
101.SO
33.SO
38.SO
1S4.SO
34.00

$25.00

Rome Tax

Total

2SO.OO
22S.OO
400.00
2S.OO
S0.00
100.00
27S.OO
300.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
S0.00
27S.OO
2SO.OO
12S.OO
37S.OO
32S.OO
100.00
100.00
lS0.00
lS0.00
27S.OO
S0.00
S0.00
2SO.OO
17S.OO
12S.OO
lS0.00
7S.OO
37S.OO
7S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
2S.OO
2S.OO

1,163.3S
412.9S
1,220.8S
2S0.7S
373.lS
S46.60
972.SS
762.30
23S.60
312.90
38S.30
237.SS
120.00
1,lSS.40
1,123.SO
66S.3S
l,S67.30
686.6S
367.7S
190.lS
4Sl.4S
329.00
1,321.10
21 l.4S
138.8S
1,091.lS
498.9S
6S3.8S
996.60
433.10
1,S02.70
163.8S
749.SO
328.4S
92.00
Ill.IS
107.2S
28S.30
166.10
908.80
1,143.30
238.30
274.70
1,796.10
28S.30
113.20
70.9S
l,024.9S
389.9S
138.SS
1S4.0S
59l.8S
252.20

7S.OO
100.00
300.00
27S.OO
lS0.00
100.00
3SO.OO
7S.OO
32S.OO
S0.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
12S.OO

81
84

87
89
91
93
9S
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
13S
136
139
140
141
143
144
14S
146
147
149
lSO
1S6
161
164
.166
167
168
169
173
174
17S
178
179
180
181

N::m• or 1.udge
Yolo- ..•.•.•.•...._._....~••:.
Vesper.........................
Naval......., •..................
Rose's Bar................- .
North Star................St. Helena.:................•
Henry Clay·······-········
Hornitos................- ..•.
Yosemite...·-···············
Clay..............................
Oroville...............•.......
Lexington....,........,.....
Arcata..........................
Pajar:o......,..................
Chico.•.........;...•....•...- ..
Summit.........................
Eden...:•..,.....................
Concord...;............•.•....
Fidelity........................
Alamo................•.........
Sotoyome....................
Table Mountain....•....
Lafayette.....................
Hermann...·-···············
Visalia...·-····-··········-·
Nicolaus .......•.........•...•
Woodbridge.....·-········
Sincerity......................
Vacaville......•..............
Valley•........................•
Pacific.....,...••.....•.......•.
Crockett......................
Curtis...........................
Grafton•..·-····-··········Franklin:..·-················
Oriental...-.:.................•
Vitruvius.................•••.
Abell.:....•..........- .......••
Eel River.....................
Lassen..........................
Molino.........................
Woodland..........- .......
Keystone.•.•...•............•
Harmony.,.......•....•......
Ex.celsior.....................
Atameda......................
Redwood City.............
Mission..•,..............•.•.••
Elk Grove...................
Drytown..........••..·-····
Antioch......;.........•...__
Phoenix.....................;.
Mendocino..:.........;......Petaluma:;.:................•
Russian River .............

General
i•1111ul

38.7S
126.2S
498.2S
27.SO
41.2S
S4:7S
44.00
72.SO
204.2S
47.2S
203.00
149.SO
143.7S
179.SO
246.2S
30.00
148.00
197.2S
396.75
104.2S
121.7S
8S.7S
142.00
162.SO
2S4.7S
74.00
9S.7S
66.00
106.00
S3.75
446.2S
430.SO
49.7S
5S.OO
70.SO
307.2S
78.2S
127.2S
144.00
133.2S
78.7S
198.SO

22.iS
10.SO
364.7S
112.SO
221.7S
SOl.00
94.SO
22.00
111.SO
3S2:2S
80.2S
20LSO
69.00

Rome
Malntenunce

Rome
Building

19.60
62.00
236.40
13.60
20.40
29.20
20.80
34.40
98.80
23.60
96.00
72.80
72.40
88.80
119.60
16.00
76.80
94.00
202.00
S4.00
S6.40
3S.60
68.80

24.SO
77.SO
29S.SO
17.00
2S.SO
36.SO
26.00
43.00
123.SO
29.SO
120.00
91.00
90.SO
111.UO
149.SO
20.00
96.00
117.SO
2S2.SO
67.SO
70.SO
44.SO
86.00
9S.OO
1S4.SO
46.00
S2.SO
42.00
70.00
34.SO
291.50
279.00
32.SO
32.00
4S.OO
197.SO
4S.SO
73.SO
82.00
7S.SO

76.00
123.60
36.80
42.00
33.60
S6.00
27.60
233.20
. 223.20
26.00
2S.60
36.00
1S8.00
36.40
S8.80
6S.60
60.40
40.40
92.00
10.00
S.60
181.20
S0.40
107.60
260.80
4S.60
11.20
S3.60
169.SO
42.80
100.00
3S.20

so.so

llS.00
12.SO
7.00
226.SO
63.00
134.SO
326.00
S7.00
14.00
67.00
211.50
S3.SO
12S.OO
44.00

16S
$25. 00

Home Tax

Tut~l

2S.OO
12S.OO
42S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO

·107.8S
390.7S
l,4SS.1S
83.10
112.lS
120.4S
140.80
249.90
S76.SS
12S.3S
644.00
488.30
381.6S
4S4.30
740.3S
66.00
34S.80
608.7S
1,001.ZS
2S0.7S
423.6S
340.8S
396.80
S83.SO
7S7.8S
206.80
290.2S
166.60
2S7.00
11S.8S
1,09S.9S
1,0S7.70
133.25
187.60
176.SO
762.7S
23S.1S
484.SS
466.60
444.lS
194.6S
6SS.SO
4S.2S
23.10
972.4S
37S.90
S88.8S
1,212.80
297.10
72.20
382.10
1,007.9S
176.SS
S76.SO
198.20

S0.00
100.00
lS0.00
2S.OO
22S.OO
17S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
22S.OO
2S.OO
200.00
lS0.00
2S.OO
17S.OO
17S.OO
100.00
2S0.00
22S.OO
S0.00
100.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
12S.OO
12S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
22S.OO
17S.OO
17S.OO
2S.OO
2SO.OO
200.00
lS0.00
125.00
12S.OO
100.00
2S.OO
lS0.00
27S.OO
lS0.00
S0.00

166

PROCEED!:-IGS OF THE

Nome or Lodr·e

182 Arbuckle ............,........
183 Clear Lake. .................
184 Sierra Valley ..............
185 Claiborne.....................
186 Evening Star .....~ .. ":: ..
187 Keith., ....................... '. ..
188 Oakland ...:. ..................:
190 Northern Light..........
191 Marin ...........................
192 Santa Barbara............
193 Ferndale......................
194- · Mt. View ...............'......
195 !'.~uckeye .......................
196 · 'San Simeon................
'198 : Wilmington ................
199 Hartley........................
200 Truck~ .......................
201 Silveyville...................
202 Pentalpha ....................
203 Confidence ..................
204 ·Salinas.........................

General
l<'und

56.25
36.50
27.00
47.25
33.25
96.50
600.00
55.00
331.25
161.00
93.25
137.75
75.00
80.00
223.50
140.75

77.75

91.50
410.75
21.75
241.25
2b5 'Olivet.. .........................
70.50
206 Stanislaus....................
277.00
207 Anaheim ......................
179.25
208 Rio Vista.............. .,.....
75.00
209 King Davids...............
231.50
trn '.Friendship.................. 404.75
211 San Benito..................
105.75
212 So. San Francisco......
179.25
214 San Buenaventura.~ ..
239.00
215 ' Oak Grove:.................
411.75
216. 'DOric.:...:...................... · 356.50
2I7 Monterey.....................
121.50
Mosaic.........................
119.25
219 Speranza Italiana......
262.50
2ZO Downey ........................
159.50
221 Inyo...... ~ .......................
65.25
222 Roseville......................
207.50
224 Bakersfield ..................
363.25
225 Brooklyn .....................
403.50
226 San Mateo...........~ .......
188.50 ..
228 Athens .........................
82.50
229 Solano ...................... ~.
320.75
230 . North Butte................
97.25
231 Covelo ..........................
49.75
232 Janesville ....................
50.75
233 Calistoga.....................
60.50
234 Hope............................
53.00
235 Surprise Valley .........
40.25
236 Hills Ferry ....... :.........
73.50
237 Giiadaluve...................
41.25
240 Colusa....... ~ ..................
116.25
241 Santa Ana ...................
333.50
242 · Magnolia..............- ....
185.00
243 Eucalyptus..................
228.50

2rn

Rome
Maintenance

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Name or Lodce

Tot.I

28.40
35.50
25.00
145.15
16.80
21.00
50.00
124.30
12.80
16.00
25.00
80.80
20.40
25.50
50.00
143.15
15.60
19.50
50.00
118.35
50.40
63.00
25.00 '
234.90
297.60
372.00
250.00
1,519.60
28.80
36.00
119.80
166.00
207.50
225.00
929.75
80.00
100.00
125.00
466.00
49.20
61.50
203.95
69.20
86.50
50.00
343.45
38.40
48.00
75.00
236.40
38.40
48.00
25.00
191.40
109.60
137.00
i 595.10
125.00
64.40
80.50
200.00
485.65
38.80
48.50
25.00
190.05
47.20
59.00
50.00
247.70
213.20
266.50
125.00 .. 1,015.45
10.00
12.50
25.00 i
69.25
118.00
147.50
200.00
706.75
34.40
43.00
50.00
197.90
137.60
172.00
100.00
686.60
92.40
115.50
100.00
487.15
36.80
46.00
125.00
282.80
116.00
145.00
150.00
642.50
200.40
250.50 .. 300.00
1,155,65
51.60 •
64.50
75.00
296.85
89.20 .
111.50
100.00
479.95
110.40
138.00
400.00
887.40
206.80
258.50
225.00
l,102.05
180.00
225.00
125.00
886.50
55.20
69.00
125.00
370.70
52.40
65.50
225.00
462.15
133.60
167.00
125.00
688.10
77.60
97.00
150.00
484.10
30.00
37.50
75.00
207.75
103.20
129.00
125.00
564.70
166.00
207.50 . 475.00 · 1,211.75
207.20
259.00
200.00
1,069.70
88.80
111.00
225.00
613.30
44.00
55.00
50.00
231.50
158.80
198.50
150.00
828.05
46.00
57.50
100.00
300.75
19.60
24.50
125.00
218.85
24.40
30.50
50.00
155.65
28.00
35.00
50.00
173.50
25.60
32.00
50.00
160.60
20.40
25.50
25.00
111.15
36.00
45.00
100.00
254.50
20.40
25.50
25.00
112.15
58.80
73.50
75.00
323.55
164.00
205.00
275.00
977.50
92.80
116.00
75.00
468.80
100.00
125.00
525.00
978.50

244
245
246

247

Alcatraz......................
Laurel ..........................
Pomona .......................
Fresno ..........................
Alturas .....................Adin. ............................
Landmark. ..................
Reading, ......................
Welcome.....................

248
250
253
254
255
256 Lodi.. .............................
258 Penrhyn......................
259 Evergreen...................
260 King Solomons ..........
261 Tuscan.........................
262 Lompoc........................
264 Hesperian....................
265 Orland.............- .........
266 North East... ..............

267 Galt..............................
268 Durant. ........................
269 Olive Branch ..............
271 Snow Mountain.........
272 Pasadena .....................
273 Anchor .........................
274 Arroyo. ..................... ;..
275 Oakdale.......................
277 Selma ...........................
278 So. California ............
279 Hanford ......................
280 Madera ........................
231 Mount Shasta .............
282 Callayomi.. ..................
283 South West................
285 San Miguel... ..............
286 Paso Robles ................
287 Winnedumah..............
288 Maxwell ......................
289 Elsinore.......................
290 East Gate..:.................
291 Santa Paula................
292 Los Gatos ..........- .......
293 Orange Grove ............
294 Traver.........................
295 Mt. Jackson ................
296 Silver Gate..................
297 Dunsmuir ....................
299 Liberty.........................
300 Redlands .....................
301 Ontario........................
302 Santa Lucia .................
303 Porterville..................
30~ Reedley ........................
305 Azusa...........................
306 Ashlar ..........................
307 Santa Monica.............

167

General

Home
Maintenance

Home
Bulldlng

$25.00
Home Tai

357.00
129.25
214.00
436.00
104.00
47.50
70.50
143.25
105.00
226.00
72.75
335.00
438.50
66.00
86.50
191.25
. 82.50
43.00
50.50
419.50
163.25
29.25
331.00
210.00
69.75
91.25
108.50
348.50
103.25
138.00
38.50
38.25
133.00
40.50
89.00
94.75
38.25
85.00
583.75
193.00
157.00
142.00

180.80
62.00
110.40
220.80
52.80
23.20
34.40
65.20
41.60
110.40
37.20
172.80
228.00
30.40
42.40
90.80
42.40
19.20
24.80
215.20
73.20
15.60
169.60
96.00
30.80
46.00
53.60
175.20
50.80
65.60
18.40
20.40
60.80
20.00
41.60
42.00
18.80
40.00
288.40
97.60
78.40
72.00
35.60
46.80
214.40

226.00

150.00
125.00
25.00
175.00
75.00
25.00
50.00
175.00
200.00
200.00
25.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
150.00

~·und

71.75
87.75
454.00
151.50
169.25
246.00
159.25
79.00
261.25
102.75
117.25
127.75
191.25

77.60
84.40
121.60
81.20
36.80
122.80
50.00
57.20
62.80
90.80

77.50
138.00
276.00
66.00
29.00
43.00
81.50
52.00
138.00
46.50
216.00
285.00
38.00
53.00
113.50
53.00
24.00
31.00
269.00
91.50
19.50
212.00
120.00
38.50
57.S()
67.00
219.00
63.50
82.00
23.00
.25.50

76.00
25.00
52.00
52.50
23.50

so.oo

360.50
122.00
98.00
90.00
44.50
58.50
268.00
97.00
105.50
152.00
101.50
46.00
153.50
62.50
71.50
78.50
113.50

50.00
25.00
175.00
100.00
. 150.00
250.00
125.00
' 50.00
75.00
200.00
50.00
150.00
25.00
175.00
25.00
100.00
150.00
25.00
100.00
350.00
100.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
475.00
50.00
75.00
150.00
50.00
100.00
200.00
75.00
50.00
125.00
150.00

Total

913.80
393.75
487.40
1,107.80
297.80
124.70
197.90
464.95 '
398.60
674.40
181.45
823.80
1,026.50
209.40
256.90
545.55
177.90
136.20
131.30
1,078.70
427.95
64.35
862.60
676.00
264.05
244.75
304.10
942.70
267.55
435.60
104.90
84.15
444.80
110.50
282.60
339.25
105.55
275.00
1,582.65
512.60
408.40
404.00
176.85
193.05
1,411.40
376.10
434.15
669.60
391.95
261.80
737.55
290.25
295.95
394.05
545.55

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAN~ LODGE OF .CAL.I FORNIA

Name or.Lodge

General
Fund

Home; i,
Maintenance

308 Monrovia.:.:........:...:.... · 155.25
79.60
309 Delano.:........ :.........:....
13S.25
62.00
310 Si~son.::.~··..-······-··········
50.00
24.00
312 Los BaJl<ls.............-....
83.50
42.40
313 Tehachapi...................
12S.25
57.20
314 Temescal ...........- ........
107.SO
52.00
31S Nor.walk.............•........
109.50
4S.60
316 Sanger ...:.....................
169.7S
69.20
317 Fallbrook....................
41.50
20.00
318 E:mmanuel...................'
SS.SO
29.60
319 Hollenbeck................_
818.SO
423.20
320 South Gate..................
429.00
220.80
321 Aiisal...........................
92.7S
42.00
322 Alhambra....................
298.00
lS0.40
323 Whittier......................
3S0.7S
174.80
324 Corona ...........- ............
318.00 .' . 164.80
325 Consuelo...................:..
119.SO
58.40
326 Needles.......'............:.....
163.SO
80.80
327 Long 1ileach............,.:. ' 360.2S
188.40
328 Redondo Beach..........
134.00
64.00
329 Vallee de France........
98.7S
48.40
330 Kilauea ........................
144.75
72.40
331 Pacific Grove..............
120.7S
59.60
332 San Pedro...................
327.50
167.20
333 Alta................_............
55.7S
24.40
33i Covina..............•.........•
142.7S
74.00
335 West Gate..'.............:..•
540.2S . 276.40
336 Fruitvale.. :...............'.;,
S91.2S
289.20
337 Carquinez...:............:.•.
123.00
S7.60
338 San Jacinto................. .~ . 60.SO
29.60
339 Fullerton.................:...
246.7s ··
126.80
341 Oxnard.... ,...............:::. · 176.2S
86.00
343 San Fernando.............
198.SO "' 9S.20
344 Starr King ...........-:....
386.7S
200.40
J4S 'Brentwood..................
S7.7S
29.20
346 Palo Aho:............... ~.;.
338.00
168.00
347 McKinley..::................
242.7S
llS.60
348 San Bernardino.........
382.7S .. 174.80
349 Sequoia....'.:.'..............":.. . 709.2S
338.80
.~SI · Palestine'....'.............:•... :.. 1 390.00
196.80
'·'t
.is2 Sunset.....- .............:.-..
319.50
143.20
3S3 Pinole.".~.::.:-.: .............. . ' 96.2S
47.60
3S4 · Presidio~..::.,.............:_
404.50
207.20
.lSS Hollywood..............~.•.
S82.7S
293.20
3S6 Mill Valley..............:.:.
233.2S
114.80 ..
3S7 Buena Park............•...
103.50
48.8()
3S8 Golden State....·-········
601.7S '
302.80
3S9 · Loyalton......................
58.7S
27.60
360 San Francisco...........•
254.00
129.60
361 Fort Bragg................•
78.7S
37.20
362 Charity.;..........•••...~...•
78.7S
40.40
363 Berkeley.....~··········-···· : 368.00
185.60
36S Willits..., ..:~ .......•._____
98.SO
50.40
366 Las Palinas.:..............: ' 482.00
232.00
J67 South Pasadena...:.'....' · 368.00 .' 18S.60

Home
Building

$25.iiO

Home Tar

.Total

99.50
100.00
434.35
77.50
22S.OO
499.7S
30.00
50.00
1S4.00
53.00
50.00
228.90
71.50
150.00
403.95
65.00
100.00
324.50
57.00
225.00
437.)0
86.SO
325.00
6S0:45
2S.OO
50.00
136.50
37.00
122.10
S29.00
200.00
l ,970.70
276.00
12S.OO
1,050.80
S2.SO
125.00
312.2S
188.00
lS0.00
786.40
218.50
175..00
919.05
206.00
75.00
763.80
73.00
125.00
375.90
101.00
75.00 .
420.30
23S.SO
250.00
1,034.15
80.00
225.00
503.00
60.50 .
50.00
257.6S
90.SO
S0.00
357.65
74.SO
75.00
329.85
209.00
125.00
828.70
30.SO
100.00
210.65
92.SO
25.00
334.25
345.50
325.00
1,487.15
361.SO
47S.OO
1,716.9S
72.00
17S.OO
427.60
37.00
2S.OO
Ui2'.10
1S8.SO
7S.OO
607.0S
107.SO
22S.OO
S94.7S
119.00
200.00
612.70
2SO.SO
7S.OO
912.6S
36.SO
2S.OO
148.4S
210.00
275.00
991.00
144.SO
27S.OO
777.8.S
218.SO
500.00
1,276.0S
423.SO
6So:oo
2,121.SS
246.00
lS0.00
982.80
179.00
575.00
1,216.70
S9.SO
·S0.00
2S3.3S
2S9.00
12S.OO
99S.70
366.SO
325.00
1,S67.4S
143.SO
lS0.00
641.SS
61.00
12S.OO
338.30
378.50
300.00
1,S83.0S
34.SO
100.00
220.85
162.00
17S.OO
720.60
46.SO
7S:OO
237.4S
so.so ' .. 25.00 •· 194.6S
232,00
150.00
93S.60
63.00
2S.OO
236.9().
290.00
4SO.OO
1,4S4.00
232.00 .. J2S:OO
1,110.60

Numo ot LoPie

,

3.68 ·'unity.,::.:•.::~.:...•...••: ....
369 Ocean Park...........•....
370 Amity......,,. .................
371 i.e Progre$ de
...
l'Oceariie.:..............372 Gardena....· ·············"···
373 , West .Los Angeles,
374 Jewel....-....•.':;.,_......."'
375 . Richmond.................."
376 Francis Drake........•."
377 . Artesia....- ....•.......:......
378 Mizi;iah.,................'....._
379 Fillmore......................
380 Huntington Beach.....
381 Oceanside...........- .......
382 Highland Park..........
383 Orosi........................- •.
384 El Centro...•..............••
385 Dinuba.....•... ·-······~·'-·
387 Coalinga..•..................,
388 Parnassus•............·-····
389 Palos Verdes.............•
390 Imperial....:..................
391 East Belt................- .••
392 West Lak~..........-····393 Balder....,.....- ...•• 394 University...·-··········39S .Turlock..................•••••
. 396 Apollo...............:..........
397 Rising.Light.........•-··'
399 Fraternity..................•
400 Burlingame...........- ....
401 Bay View....•.............•.
402 Brawley.......................
403 Y erba Buena..............
404 Glendora.................- ...
40S Moneta.....................406 Burbank......................
407 La Mesa................•....
403 Sierra Madre............ ..
409 Honolulu,.............•.._,.
410 Charter Rock..........-•.
411 Perris,..........................
412 Calexico.....................•
413 ·W aucoba...........•.......~.
414 Arlington....................
41S Silver Trowel............
416 Lindsay...._................•
417 Clovis..........................
418 Elysian...................... ~
419 Upland..................•.••_.
420 Kerman ................•...-.
421 · Inglewood.........•.,.......
422 Eagle Rock..............-.
423 York..~····'·•············-·····

169

General
Fund • '

~alnteriance

Home
Bull ding

Home Tax .

TotRI

27c).:2s
255))0
349,00

129.20
126.40
174.40

161.50
158.00
218.00

300.00 .
125.00
200.00

860.95
664.40
941.40

309.75
109'.So
169.75
99.2S
427.SO
. 159.SO
58.SO
273.2S
118.SO
189.50
84.7S
318.SO
56.7S
226.2S
129.00
216.75
473.50
419.7S
68.00
so.so
728.00
36(2S
362.SO
1ss:7s
274.50
427.2S
29S:oo
294.SO
242.7S
107.SO
363.50
7S.'OO
490.25
230.SO
106.7'S
S9.2S
173.SO
275.2S
64.SO
108.7S
3S.SO
228.7S
23S.2S
104.7S
188.00
30S.SO
106.2S
Sl.7S
2S0.7S
210.SO
140.7S

139.60 .
S2.00
72.40
52.40 .
218.40
72.80
31.20
137.20
S8.40
93.60
43.60
164.00
29.20
113.20
64.00
101.20
24S.60
192.40
27.20
24.80
368.00
182.00
188:00
69.20
140.00
201.20
144.00
148.00
122.00
48.80
172.00
36.'80
236.40
101.60
S3.20
30.00
8S.60
140.40
29.60
S0.00
16:80
112.40
110.00
S4.80
84.80
1S7.60
S0.80
19.60
112.40.
96.80
66.00

174.50
6S.OO
90.SO
65.SO
273.00
91.00
39.00
171.50
73.UO
117.00
54.50
20S.OO
36.50
141.50
80.00
126.SO
307.00
240.SO
34.00
31.00
460.00
227.50
23S.OO
86.SO
17S.OO
2Sl.SO
180.00
18S.OO
1S2.SO
61.00
21S.OO
46.00
29S.SO .
127.00
66.SO
37.50
107.00
17S.SO
37.00
62.SO
21.00
140.50
137.SO
68.SO
106.00
197.00
63.SO
24.SO
140.SO
121.00
82.SO

425.00
100.00
37S.OO
25.00
200.00
17S.OO

1,048.85
326.SO
707.65
242.15
1,118.90
498.30
128.70
731.95
299.90
S00.10
207.8S
787.SO
172.45
655.95
323.oo
694.45
1,1S1.10
1,477.65
229.20
156.20
1,8S6.00
94S.7S
BBS.SO
S61.4S
689.SO
l,3S4.9S
844.00
802.SO
667.2S
317.3i>
1,100.SO
207.80
1,422.lS
8S9.10
301.4S
1Sl.7S
S41.10
716.lS
206.10
346.2S
123.30
6S6.6S
'782.7S
2S3.0S
603.80
73S.10
320.SS
220.8S
903.6S
703.30
439.2S

Home

$25.00

150.00
50.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
S0.00
175.00
50.00
2SO.OO
12S.OO
625.00
100.00
50.00
300.00
17S.OO
100.00
2SO.OO
100.00
47S.OO
22S.OO
17S.OO
lS0.00
100.00
3SO.OO
S0.00
400.00
400.00
'7S.OO
2S.OO
17S.OO
12S.OO
7S.OO
12S.OO
S0.00
17S.OO
300.00
2S.OO
22S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
12S.OO
400.00
27S.OO
lS0.00

Name or Lodge

424
425
'426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460

461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480

Exeter.........................
Holtville. .....................
Midway.......................
Chino Valley ...............
San Dimas..................
Pittsburg ...... ;..............
McCloud ......................
f\lpha ....................:......
Hammonton ................
M.aricopa................- ..
Fairmount.. .................
Claremont ...................
Lancaster....................
Acacia..........................
Tyrian..........- .............
Standard......................
Coronado.....................
Blackmer.....................
Schofield .....................
Carpinteria .................
Wilshire......................
La Puente....................
Torrance.....................
Mt. Diablo ...................
Park.............................
Van Nuys ....................
Montebello ..................
San Pasqual.........- ....
Bethlehem...............- ..
Crocker.......................
Golden West...............
Ramona .......................
Henry S. Orme..........
Riverbank ...................
Mount Oso..................
Argonaut .....................
Paul Revere ................
Morgan Hill ...............
Alta Vista...................
Center.......................... ·
Libertas.......................
Culver City.................
Rockridge ....................
Yorba Linda ........- ...
Lincoln.........................
Delta ............................
Maui .............................
Blythe..........................
Victory................... .....
America .......................
Coachella .....................
Temblor .......................
Thousand Oaks .....- ...
Golden Rule ................
Fellowship ..................

Genernl
~'und

110.75
69.00
252.50
40.50
69.00
124.00
78.00
294.50
55.50
122.25
354.25
78.75
96.50
55.50
74.75
229.00
146.50
418.50
166.75
54.00
371.00
47.50
178.75
120.75
334.00
219.50
201.75
260.75
230.00
230.00
370.00
148.75
383.75
73.50
168.00
281.75
350.25
77.25
201.75
282.00
207.75
137.75
283.25
70.00
208.00
238.75
102.25
46.00
159.50
283.75
69.00
88.50
242.00
320.75
158.25

Home
Maintenance

56.40
33.60
128.80
21.60
36.80
57.60
40.00
151.20
26.40
60.40
185.20
38.80
45.60
26.40
35.60
112.0Q
64.80
202.40
77.20
27.20
192.00
24.80
78.80
62.80
164.80
98.40
88.40
133.20
118.40
110.40
179.20
77.20
190.80
31.20
76.80
136.40 .
177.20
38.00
104.40
131.20
99.60
67.60
135.60
35.20
104.00
117.20
52.40
17.60
80.80
136.40
33.60
45.60
116.80
150.80
76.40

171

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNlA

PROCEEDINGS OF TH~:

170

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tu

70.50
42.00
161.00
27.00
46.00
72.00
50.00
189.00
33.00
75.50
231.50
48.50
57.00
33.00
44.50
140.00
81.00
253.00
96.50
34.00
240.00
31.00
98.50
78.50
206.00
123.00
110.50
166.50
148.00
138.00
224.00
96.50
238.50
39.00
96.00 .
170.50
221.50
47.50
130.50
164.00
124.50
84.50
169.50
44.00
130.00
146.50
65.SO
22.00
101.00
170.50
42.00
57.00
146.00
188.50
95.50

75.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
75.00
75 .00
200.00
175.00
375.00
225.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
200.00
25.00
200.00
425.00
350.00
100.00
125.00
250.00
350.00
225.00
150.00
200.00
250.00
175.00
25.00
75.00
225.00
200.00
125.00
250.00
25.00
100.00
175.00
50.00 '
75.00
75.00
275.00
50.00
25.00
225.00
300.00
100.00 .

Total

312.65
219.60
642.30
89.10
176.80
328.60
218.00
709.70
164.90
308.15
845.95
241.05
299.10
189.90
229.85
681.00
467.30
1,248.90
565.45
140.20
878.00
128.30
556.05
287.05
904.80
865.90
750.65
660.45
621.40
728.40
1,123.20
322.45
1,038.05
293.70
540.80
838.65
923.95
187.75
511.65
802.20
631.85
414.85
838.35
174.20
542.00
677.45
270.15
160.60
416.30
865.65
194.60
216.10
729.80
960.05
430.15

Name or Lodge

G~neral

und

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

200.00
112.40 .
140.50
236.75
481 Mt. Davidson.............
75.00
124.50
99.60
198.75
482 Clarence F. Smith ......
225.00
97.50
78.00
175.25
483 Bell ................................
175.00
99.00
79.20
168.50
484 Albert Pike ..........- ....
225.00
33.00
26.40
74.50
485 Chowchilla..................
325.00
90.50
72.40
166.75
486 Caledonia .....................
50.00
114.50
91.60
176.75
487 Vallejo.........................
34.50
27.60
53.75
488 Patterson .....................
25.00
125.50
100.40
193.25
489 East Bay...................50.00
35.00
28.00
58.50
490 Corcoran ..................... ·
75.00
80.50
64.40
129.75
491 Woodstock..................
75.00
78.00
62.40
124.00
492 Garvanza.....................
50.00
28.50
22.80
46.75
493 Atascadero .................
250.00
175.50
140.40
299.25
494 Acorn. ...
100.00
144.50
115.60
224.75
495 Lebanon.......................
25.00
27.00
21.60
42.50
496 Riverdale.....................
250.00
147.50
118.00
252.25
497 Fremont.......................
100.00
59.00
47.20
101.50
498 Stockton......................
350.00
94.50
75.60
171.75
Capital
City
..............
~
..
499
50.00
68.50
54.80
,109.75
500 Roosevelt .....................
250.00
96.00
76.80
173.00
501 Westwood ...................
225.00
75.50
60.40
131.25
502 Harbor.........................
50.00
40.50
32.40
64.75
503 Point. ...........................
175.00
145.00
116.0.0
240.50
504 Seaside.........................
225.00
140.50
112 . ~0
236.75
505 Silver Cord .......... - 700.00
289.00
231.20
504.50
Mount
Olive
...............
506
25.00
84.00
67.20
129.00
507 El Segundo ................
75.00
25.00
20.00
48.50
508 Joppa ............................
650.00
102.00
81.60
205.00
509 Benjamin Franklin....
37.50 ·•. ., 50.00
30.00
58.25
510 Cupertino....................
25.00
54.00
43.20
82.00
511 Sunnyvale...................
275.00
87.50
70.00
163.25
512 Palms ...........................
125.00
134.00
107.20
218.00
513 Cahuenga ....................
25.00
157.00
125.60
239.50
514 Argonne......................
175.00
175.50
140.40
278.25
515 Vermont Square........
50.00
84.00
67.20
129.00
516 Taft..............................
125.00
100.00
80.00
159.00
517 Mount Vernon...........
50.00
58.00
46.40
92.00
518 La Jolla.......................
125.00
108.00
86.40
172.00
Euclid
..........................
519
225.00
140.00
112.00
232.00
520 Ionic... .:..,.................. _
125.00
106.50
85.20
166.75
521 Piedmont .....................
325.00
83.50
66.80
160.25
522 Sunrise....:.... :..............
37S.OO
74.50
59.60
147.75
523 Bellflower...................
50.00
49.00
39.20
77.50
524 Catalina Island ........... ·
125.00
131.00
104.80
207.50
525 Georg~ Washington..
100.00
102.50
82.00
164.75
526 Bay City................- ...
200.00
130.00
104.00
214.00
527 Covenant.:...................
325.00
112.00
89.60
197.00
528 Beverly Hills..............
275.00
113.50
90.80
202.25
Loyalty
........................
529
300.00
174.50
139.60
297.75
530 Sun Garden.................
125.00
59.50
47.60
108.25
53' Alexandria..................
25.00
24.50
19.60
38.75
532 Smyrna........................
175.00
80.50
64.40
139.75
A7.ure
...........................
5.~3
25.00
48.50
38.80
74.75
534 Forest Hill..................
75.00
63.00
50.40
100.50
535 Alexander Hamilton.
M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Total

689.65
497.85
575.75
521.70
358.90
654.65
432.85
115.85
444.15
171.50
349.65
339.40
148.05
865.15
584.85
116.10
767.75
307.70
. 691.85
283.05
595.80
492.15
187.65
676.50
714.65
1,724.70
305.20
168.50
1,038.60
175.75
204.20
595.75584.20
547.10
769.15
330.20
464.00
246.40
491.40
709.00
483.45
635.55
656.85
215.70
568.30
449.25
648.00
723.60
681.55
911.85
340.35
107.85
459:65
187.05
288.QO

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

172

173

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'

$25.00
General
Home
. . .Home
. ......
Name or Lodge
Fund •· Maintenance
Home Tax
Building
150.00
62.50
536 Seat Rock.:.:.........:,.:~.
108.7S
50.00
537 Utopia:..'.~...~ ............~ ..:.. ., 387.75
181.20
226.50
450.00
538 · Aseot..,•.~ ..'..~..:..............
110.50
25.00
170.75
88.40
125.00
77.60
97.00
539 Belvedere.....:.............. · 158.50
200.00
540' .. Queen Beach....- ....'.....' · 101.50
44.00
55.00
133.00
50.00
541 H. M. Stephens.....- ...
204.50
106.40
250.00
542 I:.ankershiirL..............
214.75
99.60 . . 124.50
203.SO
50.00
543 Signal....................'......
101.60
127.00
122.40 ·. 153.00
400.00
262.50
544 Glendale,................'......
50.00
545 Jonathan.....~····-····-·112.50
56.80
71.00
119.75
150.00
546 San Gabriel.................
54.80
68.50
150.00
547 Arcadia.'....................'...
96.25
44.40
55.50
91.25 .
100.00
44.40
55.50
548 · Tri~ngie.....,............:....
125.25 .
60.40
75.50
100.00
549 Justice..........................
. 75.00
125.50
63.20
79.00
550 Seaport.:..·-·················
141.75
67.60
84.50
100.00
551 Lakeshore.............. ~....
68.00
275.00
135.00
54.40
552 Semper Virens......:....
93.20
116.50
150.00
554 Educator...... :.............. .. 190.75
68.25
31.60
39.50
75.00
555 White Pine..~........~ ..:.
82.25
42.80
53.50
50.00
556 Fairfax..........,.......:..:..:
85.25
44.40
55.50
50.00
557 Hermosa......'..........:....
199.00
99.20
124.00
150.00
558 Pt. Fiririin.c...........:'.....
188.50
84.00
105.00
275.00
559 Craftsman.............:'.....
89.00
200.00
152.50
560 · Plymouth:.::...........,....
71.20
107.20
134.00
550.00
561 E. San Diego..........~.. ' · 264.00
125.00
74.80
93.50
562 Pyramid..,.,..............:.: · 150.25
240.25
114.80
143.50
200.00
563 South Park.................
91.60
114.50
150.00
564 Foothill.'..~................... · 189.75
160.50
76.00
95.00
200.00
565 West Adams...............
127.75
58.00
72.50
225.00
566 James A. Garfield'......
117.60
147.00
275.00
567 Searchilght............:.:.. · ' 253.50
189.75
86.80
108.50
175.00
568 Park Blvd.:::.............'..
78.40
98.00
225.00
569 · Chateau Thierry...:.:.. · 170.00
210.50
95.20
119.00
275.00
570 Military Service........
135.00 .
67.20
84.00
100.00
571 Francis K. ·shattuck.
140.00 '
62.40
78.00
200.00
572 James Madison.......::,.
43.75
22.80
28.50
573 HillcresL .:...........:.....
139.25
70.00
87.50
75.00
574 S. W . Hackett............
28.80
36.00
150.00
575 Fort Crook·..........-:..... '. 70.00
46.50
23.20
29.00
25.00
576 El Cajon Va'ney...;..'...
191.00
94.40
118.00
150.00
577 · Sunnyside ....:...........- ..'
106.40 .
133.00
225.00
578 · Progre5sive.:.........'...:. · .. 222.50
149.50
64.80
81.00
225.00
579 Warreh:G. Harding:..
42.00
19.20
24.00
25.00
580 Santa Marfa ..........:.... ·
161.75
78.80
98.50
125.00
581 .. Security.,..;::..~ ..........'....
71.00
33.60
42.00
75.00 ·
582 Rialto ......,.........._ .......
128.75
53.20
66.50
300.00
SSJ ' ·W asco'.:::......................
121.00
56.00
70.00
150.00
584 Hardini.......................
185.50
84.00
105.00
175.00
585 · Manchest~r.................
70.25
34.80
43.50
50.00
586 Gardert Grove.......:..._
94.50
75.60
50.00
587 Valley Fo.rge............',. '· 147.75
89.50
400.00
71.60
s~ El Ser~ii'o:.~, ................' · 172.25
77.25 .
38.00
47.50
50.00
589 Kauai.:.:~..~.:;:~ ........::~...
100.00 :
67.50
590 Campas~..~.'. ......_.....'.·:..' : 108.'25 . ' 54.00
36.00 •· ..·:; ........
59( · Yi:scaloii.";.:..::.......... :::~..>: 54.00 ' 28.80
·~

l

'

General
Total

371.'25
1,245.45'
394.65
458.10
400.50
493.90
688.85
482.10
937.90
290.30
393.05
346.15
291.15 .
361.15
342.70
393.85
532.40
550.45
214.35
228.55
235.15
572.20
652.50 .
512.70
1,055.20
443.55
698.55
545.85
531.50
483.25
793.10
560.05
571.40
699.70
386.20
480.40
95.05
371.75
284.80
123.70
553.40
686.90
520.30
110.20
464.0S
221.60
548.45
397.00
549.50
198.55
367.85
733.35
212.75
329;75
. 118.80

Name of Lodge

~'Und

Home
Maintenance

52.80
119.00
592 Tujunga.......................
102.80
206.75
593 All States....~···········-··
117.20
236.75
594 Service...............·-·······
68.00
144.50
595 Alexander G. Bell.....
96.00
222.60
596 Guardian.....................
84.00
207.50
598 Pearl Harbor.............
70.80
146.75
599 ·Carmelita.................-.
48.40
133.75
600 L:r.nwood.....................
36.40
78.25
601 Grizzly...................·-···
49.20
104.25
602 Melrose........................
71.20
151.50
603 Dimond..........·-···-······
64.00
133.00
604 Jubilee..........................
90.40
194.50
605 Glassell Park...·- ········
31.20
58.50
607 Sojourner....................
119.20
263.50
Granada
.......................
608
61.20
142.75
609 Provident.........·-········
49.20
99.25
610 Elmhurst.....................
44.80
95.00
611 Canoga........................
44.'40
95.25
612 Temple City...............
73.60
172.00
613 Three Pillars..............
77.60
158.50
614 Larchmont................33.60
82.00
Hemet
......................
..
615
30.00
65.25
616 R. E. Dolley...............
20.00
47.50
617 Big Bear.........·-··········
66.80
129.25
Southland
.........
·-·
·-··~
618
45.20
99.75
619 Neptune.......................
42.80
92.25
620 Point Loma....- ··········
78.40
174.00
621 The Gardens...............
64.80
148.50
622 Atwater.......................
128.00
301.00
623 Menorah......................
50.80
118.25
624 Fortitude.....................
122.80
275.25
Angeles
Mesa
.....
.....
625
38.80
82.75
626 Chula Vista...._...........
40.40
82.75
627 Lamanda Park...........
68.40
141.25
628 Truth .........................
36.40
76.25
Fairview
......................
629
39.20
83.50
630 Ingleside......................
75.60
175.75
631 Benevolence.....- .........
69.60
150.50
Normal
Heights
........
632
116.00
265.50
633 Poinsettia....................
32.80
69.50
634 Victorville...................
66.40
138.50
Riverside
....•................
635
36.40
77.25
636 John Marshall....·-·····
72.80
155.50
637 Palisades.....................
48.40
110.75
Indian
Rock.
...............
6$8
54.80
120.75
Composite
...................
639
33.20
87.25
640 Veritas.........................
36.80
90.00
641 James A. Foshay.......
34.40
70.50
La
Cumbre
........
,
.........
642
91.60
184.75
643 Alta Loma..................
35.60
79.75
644 L6mita................·-······
64.00
155.00
645 A. F. E. Irwin............
28.80
68.00
Metropolitan
..............
646
27.20
66.00
647 Hawthorne..................
86.00
187.25
648 Damascus....................

Home
Bulldlni

66.00
128.50
146.50
85.00
120.00
105.00
88.50
60.50
45.50
61.50
89.00
80.00
113.00
39.00
149.00
76.50
61.50
56.00
55.50
92.00
97.00
42.00
37.50
25.00
83.50
56.50 '
53.50
98.00
81.00
160.00
63.50
153.50
48.50
50.50
85.50
45.50
49.00
94.50
87.00
145.00
41.00
83.00
45.50
91 .00
60.50
68.50
41.50
46.00
43.00
114.50
44.50
80.00
36.00
34.00
107. 5~0

$25.00

Home Tax

150.00
250.00
225.00
100.00
375.00
475.00
125.00
350.00
125.00
75.00
125.00
150.00
225.00
375.00
250.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
325.00
100.00
175.00
75.00
75.00
25.00
100.00
150.00
225.00
300.00
575.00
200.00
375.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
100.00
150:00
300.00
125.00
525.00
'75.00
75.00
75.00
225.00
150.00
200.00
175.00
275.00
75.00
125.00
125.00
325.00
125.00
100.00
250.00

Total

387.80
688.05
725.45
397.50
813.00
871.50
431.05
592.65
285.15
289.95
436.70
427.0Q
622.90
128.70
906.70
530.45
284.95
270.80
295.15
662.60
433.10
332.60
207.75
167.50
304.55
301.45
338.55
575.40
594.30
1,164.00
432.55
926.55
270.05
248.65
345.15
258.15
321.70
645.85
432.10
1,051.50
218.30
362.90
234.15
544.30
369.65
444.05
336.95
447.80
222.90
515.85
284.85
624.00
257.80
227.20
630.75

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name or Lodge

General
Fund

649 Florence............·-·······
162.00
6SO La Brea....................•...
1S3.SO
6Sl Menlo Park.................
7S.OO
6S2 Crescenta Valley.......
88.2S
6S3 Fontana....- ................
64.SO
6S4 Jordan .•- ..················-··
134.2S
6SS ).\fonte Vista...............
231.ZS
6S6 Citro I.......................... .
89.SO
6S7 J~h~ D. Spreckels .....
2S7.7S
6S8 L1vmgston................_.
S3.2S
6S9 La Habra....................
62.7S
660 Baldwin Park.............
43.7S
661 Malta...........................
87.2S
662 H;i;ry Knox ..........•.•..
209.2S
663 01a1..........••.......·-··--·
43.2S
66S Kaweah......- ...............
49.SO
666 Reseda.........................
66.SO
667 Meridian ......................
139.7S
668 San Gorgonio............ .
80.00
669 John P. Jarman..........
112.SO
670 Greenleaf ................- ..
169.SO
671 San Clemente............ .
24.7S
672 Laguna Beach ............
63.2S
673 Far West...:...........·-···
129.2S
674 Los Cerritos....._.....•.•.
90.SO
67S Modesto.........·-····-·····
1S3.00
676 Willow Glen ...............
87.7S
677 Liberal Arts ........:.......
70.2S
678 Altadena...·-················
149.2S
679 Canby Cross...............
S3.7S
680 Carmel ....•................._.
4S.2S
681 Dos Palos ................ .
3S.SO
Barstow, U. D ........
66.SO
Redwood Empire,
U. D............. .
18.SO
Trona, U. D ............

Home
Maintenance

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Home

$25.00

Building

Home Tax

78.40
72.80
30.40
44.40
32.80
S4.00
97.20
4S.60
llS.60
2S.20
32.40
22.80
41.20
92.40
20.40
24.80
31.20
67.60
3S.20
4S.60
76.00
11.60
26.80
SS.80
39.20
6S.60
40.40
.'3.20
70.00
22.80
22.00
lS.20
20.00

Total

98.00
91.00
38.00
SS.SO
41.00
67.SO
121.50
S7.00
144.SO
31.50
40.SO
28.SO
SI.SO
I IS.SO
2S.SO
31.00
39.00
84.SO
44.00
S7.00
9S.OO
14.SO
33.SO
73.SO
49.00
82.00

17S.OO
200.00
200.00
100.00
2S.OO
32S.OO
400.00
S0.00
400.00
S0.00

Sl3.40
S17.30
343.40
288.lS
163.30
S80.7S
849.9S
242.10
917.8S
1S9.9S
13S.6S
9S.OS
2S4.9S
717.lS
114.lS
lSS.30
211.70
466.8S
2S9.20
36S.10
S90.SO
7S.8S
248.SS
436.SS
278.70
SS0.60
328.6S
244.9S
4S6.7S
180.0S
l 19.7S
144.70
S36.SQ

S.60

7.00

so.so

41.SO
87.SO
28.SO
27.SO
19.00
2S.OO

17S

7S.OO
300.00
2S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
17S.OO
100.00
lS0.00
2SO.OO
2S.OO
12S.OO
17S.OO
100.00
2SO.OO
lS0.00
100.00
lS0.00
7S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
42S.OO

lS0.00
181.10
22S.OO
22S.OO
Total due ....- .........100,437.7S 48,6S9.60 60,824.SO 86,000.00 29S,921.8S

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws reports that during the past year thirtyfive Lodges submitted changes in their By-Laws to the Grand Master for
approval. We are pleased. to report that all amendments submitted were
in proper form and approved.
Five Lodges changed their place of meeting.
Six Lodges amended their By-Laws to except holidays.
Eleven Lodges decreased the amount of the fees for the degrees.
Four Lodges eliminated the fee for affiliation entirely and t~o Lodges
rtduced the amount of the affiliation fee.
One Lodge raised its dues from $9.00 to $10.00.
One Lodge raised its dues from $12.00 to $32.00.
Ten Lodges changed the time of meetings, one of which advanced
the time of its stated meeting from 7 :30 to 6 :00 P. M. Many of their stated
meetings will probably be dinner meetings (it calls to mind the meetings
of the English Lodges). It will be interesting to see the effect of this
change as to the possible increased activities of this Lodge.
Names of Lodges follow: Menlo Park N.o. 6Sl, Fruitvale No. 336,
Oakland No. 188, Wilshire No. 44S, Petaluma No. 180, Eden No. 113, All
States No. S93, La Jolla No. S18, Alta Vista No. 464, San Dimas No. 428,
Unity No. 368, South Pasadena No. 367, Buckeye No. 19S, Alexander Hamilton No. S3S, Oxnard No. 341, Alameda No. 167, Nevada City No. 13, lone
No. 80, Evening Star No. 186, Santa Barbara No. 192, Sunset No. 3S2,
Waucoba No. 413, Sunrise No. S22, Fairview No. 629, Plymouth No. S60,
Henry S. Orme No. 4S8, Jewel No. 374, San Fernando No. 343, Lankershim No. S42, Covina No. 334, Riverside No. 63S, Brawley No. 402, Paul
Revere No. 462, Triangle No. S48, Colusa No. 240.
We move the adoption of this report approving all of said amendmen ts.
OAKLEY K. MORTON,
JULIUS GABRIEL,

c. E. LISTENWALTER,
FRED

R. ROBINSON,

w. T. OSTERHOLT,
w. 0. WADE,
Committee.

Report adopted.

176

'
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.'. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your. Co~mittee on Accounts, in accordance with the requirements of
the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, met at the office of the Grand Secretary on th~ last ?aturday of each month to audit the bills, claims and demands agamst this Grand Lodge and approved same as were in order.
THOMAS ANDERSON,
ANDREW BURKE,
PAUL R. BJICK,

KENNETH SA YETTE,
MAX MERTENS,

.

STEPHEN DEAN, JR.,
WILLIAM

Report adopted.

J. Rocx,Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California :

1:0

your Committee on Grievances there have been referred a total
of th1rt?' record?, covering petitions for restoration and the disciplinary
proceedmgs had m the constituent Lodges during the current Masonic year
Eleven of these will be the subject of separate reports.
·
· T~e remaining nii:ieteen records have been carefully examined by your
committee. We find m them that Masonic procedure has been properly
follov:ed, that no errors of any consequence have occurred and that in
each mstance substantial justice has been accomplished.
'
The records referred to are:
No. 959 from Yount Lodge No. 12.
No. 960 from Acorn Lodge No. 494.
No. 961 from Jewel Lodge No. 374.
No. 962 from Bellflower Lodge No. 523.
No. 963 from Francis K: Shattuck Lodge No. 571.
No. 964 from Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481.
No. 965 from Sequoia Lodge No. 349.
No. 966 from Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
No. 967 from Anaheim Lodge No. 207.
No. 969 from Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
No. 970 from Bellflower Lodge No. 523.
No. 971 from Monte Vista Lodge No. 655.
No. 972 from Friendship Lodge No. 210.
No. 973 from Silver Gate Lodge No. 296.
No. 974 from Carquinez Lodge No. 337.
No. 975 from Temple City Lodge No. 612.
No. 981 from East Belt Lodge No. 391.
No. 982 from Lancaster Lodge No. 437.
No. 984 from Brooklyn Lodge No. 225.

177

We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved; That in each of the nineteen trial records above enumerated
the findings and 'd eterminations of the respective trial commissions be, and
the same hereby : afe, ratified, affirmed, and approved.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 983, files its report as follows:
Under the authority of Section 333 of our Constitution (formerly Section 192) there . was filed with the Lodge a duly certified copy of the final
judgment of conviction of accused in the Superior Court of Sacramento,
of the crime of grand theft, a felony; the regular notice ·provided by our
Masonic law was attempted to be served. However, the certificate of service states· that the notice was forwarded, by registered mail, to accused
at a .certain address on Twenty-fourth street, Sacramento, when the c0urt
record filed in this matter shows that the address of accused was, at the
time, at the State prison of the State of California, located at San Quentin, State of California.
This is but one of too many cases where the failure to follow the plain
language of Masonic law in matters of this character makes i~ necessary for
this committee to recommend to Grand Lodge that proceedings be remanded because jurisdiction to act was never acquired by the Lodge.
This committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves its
adoption:
·
Resol'l.led, That the expulsion of accused in trial record No. 983 be, and
the same is, hereby set aside and vacated, and that this ma'tter be remanded
to the Lodge with th·e direction to proceed according to"the provisions of
our Masonic law.

Report . adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition of
restoration of H. M ., tria1 record No. 222, report as follows :
This committee feels that the persistency which accused has exhibited
in his endeavor to obtain a restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, and the evidence contained in the record about his conduct since the
time of his expulsion in 1917, warrants us in recommending to Grand Lodge
that the present petition be granted.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of Liberty Lodge No. 299, seeking the res. toration of H. M. to all the rights and privileges of Masonry be and the
same is hereby granted.

The report was adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record No.
6i4, being a petition by F. J. S., formerly a member of Glendale Lodge
No. 544, for restoration to all the rights and privileges of Masonry, beg to
report that the committee is satisfied that this applicant's conduct during
the past ten years has been such that it would justify it in recommending
that the petition for restoration be granted. .
·we therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the application for restoration to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry of F. J. S. be granted.

Report adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
:!\o. 980, concerning 0. A. W., a member of Multnomah Lodge No. 1,
A. F. & A. M., of Oregon City, Oregon, is of the opinion that the trial
commissioners were evidently confused by an argument of counsel, which
would have been sound in a court of law, but was not sound under our
Masonic law; as further proof of the confusion into which the trial commissioners evidently fell, we note that at the conclusion of the trial a
ballot was taken on the question of guilty or not guilty on the specification, and the vote thereon was: guilty, none; not guilty, seven; a vote of
guilty or not guilty was then taken by ballot upon the charge of unmasonic
conduct, and the vote thereon was: guilty, three; not guilty, four. In view
of the fact counsel for the accused apparently succeeded in convincing the
trial commissioners that no disciplinary action could be taken against the
accused under the provisions of Section 192a of our Constitution, and offered no evidence in support of his contention and a plea of not guilty,
your committee is of the opinion that such record should be remanded to
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, the trial" Lodge, for a new trial, and
your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves its
adoption:

Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved, That trial record No. 977 concerning this member of San Joaquin Lodge No. 19 be reversed and remanded for a new trial.

178

Resolved, That trial record No. 980, concerning 0. A. W., a member of
Multnomah Lodge No. 1, of Oregon, be remanded to San Buenaventura Lodge
No. 214 for a new trial.

Report was adopted.
Your committee to which was referred trial record No. 977, of San
Joaquin Lodge No'. 19, beg leave to report as follows :
On April 8, 1940, accused, a member in good standing of said Lodge,
pleaded guilty to the charge governed by Sections 501 and 480 of Vehicle
Code of the State of California, felonies. Probation was granted on condition that defendant serve six months in the county jail and thereafter
to pay a fine of $300.00 or serve an additional four months in jail; and to
refrain from using alcoholic liquors, etc., the violation of any of which
terms of probation would result in an immediate revocation of the probation. If at the end of five years the terms of probation are kept, the court
was to permit the defendant to withdraw his plea of guilty and the accusation would be dismissed.
Thereafter the Secretary of defendant's Lodge procured two certified
copies of an order granting probation, and filed one of said copies in the
records of the Lodge, and gave sixty days notice in writing to the defendant, by registered mail, forwarded to his last known place of address. This
notice to the defendant recited that the certified copy of the final judgment
oi conviction for the crime of violation of Paragraph 4 of Section 1302
of the Pen.a l Code of the State of California had been filed in the records
of the Lodge.
Your committee feels that the terms of Section 332, formerly 192, of ·
the Constitution were not complied with in this case. No certified copy of
the judgment of conviction was filed in the records of the Lodge, but only
a certified copy of a court order. granting probation. Moreover, the notice
sent to the defendant by his Lodge, and also the said order granting probation referred to Paragraph 4, Section 1302, of the Penal Code, which
section of the Penal Code relates to the surrender of bail money before a
forfeiture thereof, and does not prescribe a crime. Since the notice· to defendant and the certified record filed with the Lodge were both erroneous,
we therefore believe that this conviction should be reversed.

179

The report was adopted.
Your committee, to whom was referred the transcript of the trial record in the case of D. c;., suspended by Ocean Park Lodge No. 369, on a
charge of violation of Section 311 of the Penal Code of the State of California, and who was 'convicted of such violation of the code by a court
of record, your committee is of the opinion that the judgment of suspension is not sufficient punishment for such conduct and therefore submits
the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Ocean Park Lodge No. 369 in suspending
D. C. from all the rights and privileges of Masonry be modified and that
the judgment be fixed. at expulsion.

Report adopted.
Your committee has carefully considered the application of P. T., tried
by Tyrian Lodge No. 439, and expelled, and report thereon as follows:
In 1927 the accused was convicted in the justice court of a misdemeanor (possession of intoxicating liquor) and fined $500.00, which he
paid. Thereafter charges of un-Masonic conduct were preferred against
him, and upon the trial he appeared and admitted the specification and was
expelled.
In 1932 he petitioned for restoration, which petition was denied without prejudice by Grand Lodge.
He now again petitions for restoration, and his petition has received
the unanimous approval of his Lodge.
We therefore offer the following r~solution and move its adoption:.
Resolved, That the petition of P. T., formerly a member of Tyrian
Lodge No. 439, for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, be
and the same is hereby granted.

The report was adopted.
In the matter of trial record No. 979, being that of E. H . B., expelled
by All States Lodge No. 593, your committee reports as follows:
The accused pleaded guilty to a felony, the possession of a firearms
silencer. He was granted probation and fined, but was not imprisoned.
Charges of un-Masonic conduct were preferred against him, and at a
regular meeting of the Lodge the Master announced that a certified copy
of the judgment of the Superior Court had been filed in the records of the
Lodge, that the accused had been notified of the charges against him, and
having failed to appear within sixty days, pursuant to the provision of
Section 332 of our Constitution and Ordinances (formerly Section 192), he
was expelled.
Before a member of a Lodge may be expelled pursuant to Section 332
he must have been convicted of a felony and have been "imprisoned in
pursuance thereof." Inasmuch as the accused in this case did not suffer
imprisonment he may not be expelled in the manner above outlined.
Your committee therefore recommends the adoption of the following
resolution:
Resolved, That the action of All States Lodge No. 593, in expelling

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

accused from ·all the rights and privileges of Masonry be, and the same
is hereby , reversed and set aside, and remanded for further proceedings.

Approved. : ·
Your Committee on Grievances, to w.hich was referred the petition
for restoration presented by C. H. S., expelled by Grand Lodge in 1931,
has had the same under consideration and find that there is ample evidence
showing a ·complete reformation on his part, and that the Lodge of which
petitioner was a member has recommended his restoration, and we therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of C. H. S,, the accused in trial record
No. 673, for restoration to all the rights and privileges of Masonry, be and
the same is hereby granted.

state prison at San Quentin and the Lodge improperly served notice on
him by mailing it to Guinda, California; and for the reason stated in our
report No. 978, we recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
·Resolved, That the action of Landmark Lodge No. 253 in expelling
P . G. E. from all the rights and privileges of Masonry be, and the same is,
hereby reversed and_the case remanded for new proceedings.

Report adopted.

Report adopted.
·Your committee to which was referred trial record No. 968, being that
of P . G. E., a member of Landmark Lodge No. 253, reports that this case
must b~ retried .beca,use of the errors committed in not serving notice on
the accused in the manner prescribed by our law. The accused was in the

·

FRANK B. BELCHER,
DWIGHT W. STEPHENSON;
OLIN L. BERRY,
Louis DRAPEAU,
MARSHALL F. McCOMB,
ALEX SHERIFFS,
A.
BROUILLET,

w.

The report was adopted.
Your committee to which was referred trial record No. 978, of Brother
K. R. S., a member of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, respectfully reports
as follows:
Brother K. R. S. suffered a final judgment of conviction of a crime
classified as a felony, to wit: the crime of forgery, and was imprisoned in
the state prison at San Quentin in pursuance thereof. The Secretary of
his Lodge attempted to proceed against him pursuant to the provisions
of Section 192 of the Constitution. Although the provisions of said section
clearly state that the notice to the accused must be mailed to him at his
last known place of address, which in this case could only be the state
prison at San Quentin, the record shows that the Secretary mailed the
notice to 423 Courtland street, Fresno, California, which was probably
the address of the accused prior to the time he took up residence at San
Quentin.
Grand Lodge has many times called attention of its subordinate Lodges
and their officers to the necessity of mailing notice to the accused at the
place of his incarceration and not to an address at which he may have
r esided prior to his imprisonment in a penal institution.
The failure of the Secretary to follow the procedure clearly set out
in Section 192 compels us to recommend the reversal of the action of the
Lodge in expelling K. R. S. The fact that an accused brother has proper
notice of the intention of his Lodge to expell him, unless within sixty days
he demands a Masonic trial,' is of vital importance, othei;-wise one might
b e deprived of membership in the Fraternity without the opportunity of
presenting a defense. Because there can be no certainty that a notice mailed
to the accused at a place other th.a n where he actually is present, will be
delivered to him, the requirement that he b e notified at his "last known
place of address" was incorporated in Section 192.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
, .. .. (.,
Resolved, That the action of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, in expelling
K. R. S. J.n>m all the rights and privileges of Masonry, be and the same is
hereby rc;versed, and that the case be remanded for new .pr.o ceedings.

181

.

'

Committee.

REPORT OF. COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Vocal solo: "The Souls of the Righteous" (Pears) ........Gwynfy Jones
Invocation: Grand Chaplain.

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Another year has passed since we last met and we find many .familiar
faces missing. Two hundred and twenty-seven of our brethren of Grand
Lodge have been called. from time to eternity. We do not meet today to
mourn their departure, but to pay tribute .\ o. their memory, and to rejoice
with them since they are now in our Father's house, where there is "no
more death, neither sorrow nor crying." Whate~er our creed or Ol.\r faith,
we must sound . a note of gladness, not because they havi; passed from
among us, but because they are now living in the presence of the great
triune God, the Supreme Grand Master of the Universe.
We learn from the Great Light of Masonry that "it is appointed unto
man once to die," but we also learn .from the same sacred source that
"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea saith
the spirit that they may rest from th~ir labors and their works do follow
them." Also, "He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he
live and he that liveth and believeth in me shall never die." Our brethren
are not dead but are translated to that undiscovered country where "eye
hath not seen, ear hath n,0.t heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of
man the things that are _prepare<! for those who fove the L ord." We shall
miss them, but could they speak .to u:; today I am sure they would convey
to us their experience in those [natcbless words:
"And so for me there is no sting· to death
And so for me the grave has lost its victory.
. It is but crossing with abated breath
· And with set face a !itt1e. strip of sea,
To find the loved ones waiting on the shore,
More beautifu), 111ore precious toon before."
Freemasonry has been define'd as ·a progressive moral science, taught
by degrees only. It is this, and it is mor.e than this. I would even dare. say
to you, my brethren, that it is a way 6f life, of living. It· points out to
us clearly our many duties' ·while here. It goes farther than this. It leads

182

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

us into ways of useful and helpful thinking and living and teaches us symbolically the "Way Everlasting."
A general eulogy has been prepared and will be given as a part of
this program, but I feel that I must call your attention to some startling
facts.
First, there never has been as great a loss from the membership of
this Grand Lodge in any one year as this past year, 227 of the brethren
of Grand Lodge having been called from time into eternity.
Secondly, no year in the history of this Grand Lodge has ev~r been
called upon to record the passing of so many Grand and Past Grand officers.
Two Past Grand Masters and our Assistant Grand Secretary were called
to their eternal reward. Also, our Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master
of last year who, because of failing health, could not serve this Grand
Lodge as Most Worshipful Grand Master, was called to his final reward.
Thirdly, death has claimed as its victims four of the Inspectors of this
Grand Lodge during the interim of communications.
The members of this Grand Lodge of California were grieved and their
hearts were saddened when on June 26, 1940, our Past Grand Master, Orrin
Staples Henderson, was called from this earthly Grand Lodge to the Supreme Grand Lodge above. He had the distinction of being the senior
living Past Grand Master of this Grand Lodge. He was born in San Andreas, Calaveras County, California, June 2, 1863. His Masonic history
is as follows: Initiated October 2, 1884; passed November 6, 1884; and
raised November 20, 1884, in Morning Star Lodge No. 68. Served as
Master of Morning Star Lodge 1890- 1891. Served as Gran(;! Master of the
Grand Lodge of California beginning October, 1902. He received the
Royal Arch degrees in Stockton Chapter No. 28 in 1891, and served as
High Priest in 1895. He received the Cryptic degrees in Stockton Council
No. 10, Royal and Select Masters, in 1892. Served as Illustrious Master
1915-1916. He received the Templar degrees in Stockton Commandery
No. 8, Knights Templar (Orders of Red Cross October 20, 1899, Knight
of Malta and the Temple November 3, 1899).
These are the stepping stones to Masonic usefulness in the life of our
Brother Henderson. This seems lifeless, especially when compared with
the greatness of his soul. Having read most of his address at the annual
communication of Grand Lodge in 1903, I bow in humility in the presence
of the memory of one who was great in his simplicity, one whose faith
in divine guidan.c e was as unshaken as Eternity itself. May I quote briefly
from him : "Soon I will lay aside the pleasures as well as the cares of this
time-honored station, and another will assume them. My best wishes go
out to him. May his heart, as is mine, be always filled with the greatest
of gratitude to our beneficent Heavenly Father for His bountiful blessings
and watchful care." His message and his service were characterized by
a childlike faith and trust in that beneficent Being who orders all things
wisely. May we say in bidding farewell to our brother: "God bless, hallow, .and sanctify the memory of this great soul in its influence upon each
one of us."
·
The grim messenger of death called another of our Past Grand Masters, William Albert Sherman, who passed to his reward February 19, 1940.
He was born September 17, 1880, in San Francisco. He r eceived his early
education in the historic old town of Sonoma in the Valley of the Moon.
He was made a Master Mason in Presidio Lodge No. 354 in San Francisco
in 1904. He was a member and Past High Priest of California Chapter
No. 5, Royal Arch Masons; a member of ·California Commandery No. 1,
Knights Templar ; California Council No. 2, Royal and Select Masters;

183

San Francisco Bodies of Scottish Rite, and Islam Temple of the Mystic
Shrine. He served this Grand Lodge as Grand Master October, 1922._ to
October 1923. My first recollection of our Brother Sherman was seeing
him at Big Bear Lake in July, 1923. My impression of that meeting was :
"Here is a man with a real vision." This was verified in a summary of his
year's activities. May I quote from his own words, showing the largeness
of the vision that motivated his every thought :
"My closing. admonition to this great body of California Masonry is 'To
watch at all times; watch all political and economic problems and act upon
them with the sole ideal of benefiting our land and humanity, always remembering that like produces like is the eternal law of the universe, and
that in the end right will prevail.'" Thank God for this Past Grand Master, whose ideals, then as now, fit into the thinking of men and Masons
everywhere as a measure of soundness and safety.

I

Not entirely unexpected was the call which came to our beloved
Brother William Harrison Waste June 6, 1940. He was born near Chico,
Butte County, California, October 31, 1868. He died at his home in Berkeley, California. He was the son of John Jack.son Waste. and Mary. Catherine Mcintosh. His early training and education fitted him very eminently
for his future career as a jurist. For 37 years he devoted his time and talent
to public service. For this devotion he was awarded the f~llowing positions of responsibility: 1903-1905, Assembly of the State Legislature; !9051919, Judge of .Superior Court in Alameda County; 1919 he was apJ?Olnt~d
Presiding Justice of the District Court of Appeal of the State of Cahforma,
First Appellate District, and the following year elected to that court . for
a full term. He resigned in 1921 to accept an appointment as Associate
Justice of the Supreme Court of California. The year following .he was
elected to fill the unexpired term. In 1926 he was elevated by appoint,,ment
to the office of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of California. Following that appointment he was twice elected to the same office, in the years
1928 and 1938. He occupied the highest judicial office in the State of California at the time of his death. The outstanding characteristic in the life
of our brother, Judge Waste, was "service." We often quote, "he also
serves who only stands and waits." 'this was not true of our brother. In
all the years of his life as a public servant, but mor~ espe~ially .in his lon.g
and active Masonic career, Judge Waste served actively, intelligently and
aggressively with the full measure of his abil~ty. He was raised a Ma.ster
Mason in Durant Lodge No. 268, F . & A. M ., in August, 1895. He received
the degrees in Berkeley Chapter No. 92, Royal Arch Masons, Berkeley,
California. He received the degrees in Oakland Council No. 11, Royal and
Select Masters in 1905. He was knighted in Oakland Commandery No. 11,
Knights Tem~lar, in November, 1905. He retai.ned his _membership in all
these bodies until his death. He was elected Right Eminent Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery of California in April, 1922. In Octobe~,
1936 he was elected Junior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of Cahfornla, and in October, 1939, he was exalted to the highest office i!1 this
grand body, being elected to the office of Grand Master, fro.m which he
at once resigned, on account of failing health. If there w~re ~1me I would
like to review for you his more than twenty years of service in .the Grand
Lodge of California. His outstanding achievement .was the planm~g, supervising and final completion of our beautiful Masomc Club House in Berkeley This will always be a monument to his untiring efforts. He has heard
the. welcome plaudit, "Well done, good and faithful servant. Ent.er t~ou
into the joy of thy Lord." May God bless his memory to our sanctification
and inspire each one of us to emulate him.

184

For though from out our bourne of time and place
The flood may bear me far,
I hope to see my pilot face to face
When I have crossed the bar."

Frank Goodwin Hobbs
One of our best loved and most valuable workers in the Grand Lodge
of California was called from our midst June 14, 1940. He was really a
veteran in the service of Grand Lodge. As nearly as I am · able-to · learn
he received his first appointment as Assistant Grand Secretary in October,
1922. He had completed nearly eighteen years in this office at the time
of his death. Brother Hobbs was initiated, passed and raised in Montezuma Lodge No. 30, of Goldfield, Nevada, in 1906. He also received the
degrees of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite in Nevada. Through th.e
efforts of our brother Alexandria Lodge No. 531, F. & A. M., was organized
in 1922. Recognition was given him at this time and he became the first
Master of the newly organized Lodge. On December 18, 1925, he affiliated with the Scottish Rite Bodies in San Francisco.
For eighteen years Brother Hobbs has served this Grand Lodge. He
was faithful, courteous, gracious and efficient in all his duties and responsibilities. The records of Grand Lodge speak volumes for the. prodigious
amount and scope of his work. I am sure the memory of his faithfulness
will inspire each one of us to a better loyalty.
Time will permit me to mention the passing only of four of our Grand
Lodge Inspectors: Harry A. Harper" District 25, died October 14, 1939;
Charles E. Green, District 24, died January 10, 1940; Isaac C. Totman',
District 17, Died April 28, 1940; Wilbert J. Stewart, District 90, died July
6, 1940.
.
.
And now I feel that in one instance at least I must digress .from our
usual custom of especially mentioning only Grand Lodge members in thi~
report.
Brother Clarence H. Oliver, who was not a member of this Grand
Lodge, but was a member of Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403, and who for
many years was a member of the outstanding vocal organization that furnished us from year to year with genuine inspirational programs at the
opening of Grand Lodge, was called to sing with the Celestial Choir in
that Supreme Grand Lodge that never closes.
Even now I think he is singing in the great Alleluia chorus about
"The Lamb that was slain from the foundation of the world."
Some day, yes some day, may we hear him sing again I
Affectionately and reverently we bid farewell to our brethren in Grand
Lodge and the constituent Lodges who have been taken from among us
in the past year. Trustingly we leave them in the hands of that beneficent
Being who doeth all things well.
'" Sunset and evening star,
And one clear call for me.
And may there be no moaning of the bar,
When I put out to sea.
But such a tide as, moving, seems asleep,
Too full for sound and foam,
When that which drew from out the boundless deep
Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell,
And after that the dark.
And may there be no sadness of farewell
When I embark.

185

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Tehama Lodge No. 3:
Louis David Ehret, died April 26, 1940.
Corinthian Lodge No. 9:
Charles Edward Turner, died August 4, 1939.
Elmer Ellsworth Stone, died June 10, 1940.
Alfred Herbert Alderman, died April 14, 1940.
Yount Lodge No. 12:
William Thompson Smith, died February 29, 1940.
Nevada Lodge No. 13:
Wade Armstrong, died January 17, 1940.
Ray Hays, died September 25, 1939.
Lloyd W. Jennings, died Augus~ 6, 1939.
Temple Lodge No. 14:
Louis H. Golton, died March 21, 1940.
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17:
Jean Marie Dupas, died May 24, 1940.
Joseph H. Plante, died April 19, 1940.
Ren~ M. Vidalie, died March 19, 1940.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21:
Norval Beam Young, died March 8, 1940.
Occidental Lodge No. 22:
Frederick Arthur Houseworth, died N,ovember 29, 1939
Edward Caspar Landis, died October 6, 1939.

'

Madison Lodge No. 23:
Henry Goudge, died December 3, 1939.
Bennett Opie, died December 29, 1939.
Howard Lodge No. 37:
.
John Enoch Harmon, died January 12, 1940.
William Brown Rider, died January 7, 1940.
Ellsworth Tubbs, died April 24, 1940.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
James Newton Dier, died April 19, 1940.
Valorous Chapin Wa~erman, died March 14, 1940.
Hiram Lodge No. 43:
Charles Ezra Greep.; died January: io, 1940.
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
John Charles Jens, died July 29, 1940.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57:
Charles Jacobs, died October 21, 1939.

it) . . ·

186

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS 0 F THE

Gravel Range Lodge No. 59:
Julius Elisha Pauly, died June 19, 1940.

Oriental Lodge No. 144:
John Foster Clute, died October 9, 1939.

Plumas Lodge No. 60:
Charles Snider Myers, died April 15, 1940.

Vitruvius Lodge No. 145:
Jules Respeleux, died June 26, 1940.

Live Oak Lodge No. 61:
Frank B. Hough, died December 28, 1939.

Molino Lodge No. 150:
Henry Albert Belt, died February 22, 1940.

Morning Star Lodge No. 68:
Orrin Staples Henderson, died June 26, 1940.
Ernest George Swinney, died May 21, 1940.

Excelsior Lodge No. 166:
Otto Frank Westphal, died September 2, 1939.
Mission Lodge No. 169:
William Henry Worden, died May 4, 1940.

Humboldt Lodge No. 79:
Frank Smith, died November 4, 1939.

Drytown Lodge No. 174:
Jas. H. Ralph, died May 6, 1940.
Allen McWan, died May 10, 1940.

Ione Lodge No. 80:
Harry A. Harper, died October 14, 1939.
Otto Vernon Stoltz, died December 6, 1939.

Antioch Lodge No. 175:
John Thomas Cox, died March 5, 1940.

Yolo Lodge No. 81 :
John Guthler Bowers, died March 2, 1940

Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Arthur Mock, died October 24, 1939.

Vesper Lodge No. 84:
Frank Hendricks, died March 20, 1940.

Northern Light Lodge No. 190:
Henry Herman Butzbach, died November 20, 1939.
Jesse Marx, died July 14, 1940.

Naval Lodge No. 87:
Gustaf Adolf. Bergwall, died February 19, 1940.
Henry Clay Lodge No. 95:
Webster Smith, died February 8, 1940.

Marin Lodge No. 191:
Albert Dean Turner, died August 18, 1939.

Eden Lodge No. 113:
Amzi B. Cary,., died November 23, 1939.

Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192:
Clarence Crosby Knight, died May 6, 1940.
August Carl Schuster, died October 31, 1~39.

Concord Lodge No. 117 :
.
George Frederick Shepherd, died November 18, 1939.

'

'

Ferndale Lodge No. 193:
Leven C. Ericcsen, died Jiinuary 12, 1940.

Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Lucius Lawrence Solomons, died April 30, 1940.

Wilmington Lodge No. 198: .
David J. Woods, died February 19, 1940.

La Fayette Lodge No. 126:
Perry Tice Allison, died January 20, 1940.
John William Anderson, died July 30, 1940.

Hartley Lodge No. 199:
Daniel Warren Dillard, died May 23, 1940.
Percy Herbert Millberry, died May 12, 1940.

Visalia Lodge No. 128:
Jonas Adelmas Allen, died August 23, 1939.

Silveyville Lodge No. 201 :
Otto Eggert, died January 24, 1940.

Nicolaus Lodge No. 129:
William A. Stull, died March 17, 1940.

Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
William Purinton Musaus, died November 17, 1939.

Sincerity Lodge No. 132:
William Thomas Treleavan, died December 16, 1939.

Confidence Lodge No. 203:
Christopher Dudley, died July 23, 1940.

Grafton Lodge No. 141 :
Roy E. Belveal, died November 30, 1939.

Salinas Lodge No. 204:
Robert D. Logan, died January 2,' 1940.

Franklin Lodge No. 143:
Chal'les Lester Poole Gardiner, died July 9, 1940.

Olivet Lodge No. 205:
George A. Hoag, died February 20, 1940.

187

188

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

189

Rio Vista Lodge No. 208:
W. A. Stewart, died December 22, 1939.

King Solomon's Lodge No. 260:
Gustav Gunzendorfer, died August 21, 1939.

King David's Lodge No. 209:
Fred Adolphus Dorn, died January 25, 1940.

Durant Lodge No. 268:
Francis Henry Etherington O'Donnell, died February 5, 1940.
William Harrison Waste, died June 6, 1940.
·

Friendship Lodge No. 210:
Leslie Frederick Cauch, died August 20, 1939.
Robert Alexander Heriot, died July 2, 1940.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
Henry Edward Nolan, died February 17, 1940.
George John Zech, died November 21, 1939.
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215:
Charles Edward Stokes, died November 21, 1939.
John C. Stannard, died July 24, 1940.

Pasadena Lodge No. 272:
Claude Lee Crockett, died May 11, 1940.
Lloyd Lowther Greer, died April 6, 1940.
John Franklin West, died April 13, 1940.
Oakdale Lodge No. 275:
Wright Shovelton Boddy, died July 7, 1940.
Selma Lodge No. 277:
Chester Dusy, died October 6, 1939.

Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219:
Clement C. Pein!, died February 25, 1940.

Hanford Lodge No. 279:
John Longwlll Sullivan, died January 20, 1940.

Downey Lodge No. 220:
Thomas L. Miller, died August 26, 1939.

Madera Lodge No. 280:
Charles M. Petty, died January 6, 1940.

Bakersfield Lodge No. 224:
Jabez Right Gist, died April 21, 1940.

Mt. Shasta Lodge No. 281:
Thaddeus Wilton Hufl' Shanahan, died January 30, 1910.
Edwin Lee Story, died October 25, 1939.

Solano Lodge No. 229:
George Grant Halliday, died March 17, 1940.
Janesville Lodge No. 232:
William Arthur Merrill, dfed November 7, 1939.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237:
Lionel Duncufl' Waller, died February 13, 1940.
Colusa Lodge No; 240:
Isaac Clark Totman, died April 28, 1940.
George Peter Ahlf, died September 14, 1939.

Callayomi Lodge No. 282:
Wellman Jenness Balley, died July - , 1940.

'

East Gate Lodge No. 290:
Charles Alfred Holland, died July 11, 1940.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292:
Francis Marlon Derrickson, died August 28, 1939.
Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295:
Willard Chester Cole, died May 23, 1940.

Santa Ana Lodge No. 241:
John Phillip Greeley, died March 22, 1940.

Silver Gate Lodge No. 296:
Marius Hanson Qultsow, died April 6, 1940.

Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243:
Charles F. Suss, died November 26, 1939.

Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297:
Francis Cuming Nourse, died October 26, 1939.

Alcatraz Lodge No. 244:
Charles Edward Snook, died March 29, 1940.
David Thomas Gardner, died December 19, 1939.

Redlands Lodge No. 300:
Fred H. Clock, died February 19, 1940.
Harry Tinker Nott, died September 12, 1939.

Fres~o Lodge No. 24 7:

"
Charles William Barrett, d~ed· March 12, 1940.

Ontario Lodge No. 301:
Wllliam Francis Blalkle, died August 28, 1939.

Lodi Lodge No. 256:
Ambus Ozro Eddlemon, died January 19, 1940.

Ashlar Lodge No. 306:
Edgar Ellis Helsby, died December 8, 1939.

Evergreen Lodge No. 259:
James Earl Drayton: .died J1:1.n~ 3, 1940.

Delano Lodge No. 309:
Benjamin Franklin .Hobart died January 9, 1940.

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sisson Lodge No. 310:
James A. Taylor, died August 29, 1939.
Los Banos Lodge No. 312:
Vio Gardner Bryant, died June 29, 1940.
Sanger Lodge No. 316:
James Edward Burnett, died November 27, 1939.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
Benjamin Nelson Powers, died November 28, 1939.
Henry Wilson Reynolds, died December 4, 1939.
South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Knowlton R. Bradley, died July 6, 1940.

URAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mill Valley Lodge No. 356:
George Henderson Cooke, died December 30, 1939.
Golden State Lodge No. 358:
John Franklin Bourne, died March 24, 1940.
John George Morley, died June 23, 1939.
William Charles Smith, died July 26, 1940.
San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Arthur Sidney Young, died December 23, 1939.
Willits Lodge No. 365:
William A. S. Foster, died February 23, 1940.
Frank Spurlock, (date not given>.

Alhambra Lodge No. 322:
George Albert Houser, died August 27, 1939.

Amity Lodge No. 370:
Richard Cain, died April 5, 1940.

Consuelo Lodge No. 325 :
Edgar Euell Turrentine, died November 3, 1939.

West Loa Angeles Lodge No. 373:
Dr. August Benjamin Hromadka, died October 26, 1939.

Needles Lodge No. 326:
Fred M. Kelley, died January 27, 1940.

Richmond Lodge No. 375:
Luther Sanborn, died July 1, 1940.
George F erdinand Sand, died January 16, 1940.

Redondo Lodge No. 328:
Augustus Medores Harter, died October 26, 1939.
Kilauea Lodge No. 330:
Leslie Walker Branch, died February 17, 1940.
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331:
Charles Kirkham Tuttle, died August 2, 1939.
Daniel Joseph Leary, died January 3, 1940.
West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Louis S. Nordlinger, died June 8, 1940.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336:
John Cameron McEwen, died June 26, 1940.
Carquinez Lodge No. 337:
John Henry Dorman, died July 11, 1940.

Francia Drake Lodge No. 376:
Frank Porter Edwards, died December 5, 1939.
Charles Wesley King, died November 6, 1939.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379:
Iva L . Hinckley, died August 8, 1939.
Orrie E . Pearson, died October 26, 1939.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380:
H. L. J. Smith, died March 6, 1940.
Parnassus Lodge No. 388:
.
Charles Goff, died November 23, 1939.
East Belt Lodge No. 391:
Willis Roscoe Berry, died April 1, 1940.

San Jacinto Lodge No. 338:
William G. Vosberg, died October 18, 1939.

University Lodge No. 391:
Frederic Benjamin Comfort, died January 6, 1940.
Oscar Christian Larsen, died January 22, 1940.

Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
Otto J. Harvey, died October 21, 1939.

Turlock Lodge No. 395:
Frank C. Harder, died January 3, 1940.

San Bernardino Lodge No. 348:
John Franklin Johnson, died February 24, 1940.
Presidio Lodge No. 354:
Elwood John Houston, died October 6, 1939.
Will1am Albert Sherman, died February 19, 1940.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355:
Charles Edward Boag, died November 2, 1939.
Oscar Lewis Moore, died June 3, 1940.

Apollo Lodge No. 396:
Kenneth Clyde Smith, died April 14, 1940.
Fraternity Lodge No. 399:
Frank Harris Ross, Jr., died February 26, 1940.
Bay View Lodge No. 401:
Charles Kimble, died October 24, 1939.
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403:
Herbert A. Steinbach, died December 20, 1939.

191

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Moneta.Lodge No. 405:
Ciaude Horner Campbell, died August 6, 1939.
George Leo Thomas, died April 19, 1940.

Golden West Lodge No. 455:
Harry Edwin Allen, died November 25, 1939.

Sierra. Madre Lodge No. 408:
Franklin Biederman, died July 1, 1940.

Ramona Lodge No. 457:
Wilbert Joshua Stewart, died July 6, 1940.

Honolulu Lodge No. 409:
Edwin Oscar White, died June 9, 1940.

Center Lodge No. 465:
James Eraswlth Dorwin Harrison, died June 7, 1940.
William Glass, died July 23, 1940.

Waucoba Lodge No. 413:
Johnathan Wesley McMurry, died May 10, 1940.
Arlington Lodge No. 414:
Ralph John Reed, died August 4, 1939.

Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478:
George Hugh Wolflin, (date not given).
Bell Lodge No. 483:
William Henry Dalrymple, died September l, 1939. ·

Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415:
Frank Rae Clayton, died November 22, 1939.
John Douglas Tobias, died A~gust 15, 1939.

Woodstock Lodge No. 491:
Richard William Parkinson, died November 29, 1939.

Clovis Lodge No. 417:
Ralph Adolph Matthews, died June 20, 1940.

Garvanza Lodge No. 492:
Charles Oscar Zimmerman, died June 18, 1940.

Elysian Lodge No. 418:
Arthur Beardsley, died March 14, .1940.
Franklin Leonard Knox, died July 7, 1940.

Lebanon Lodge No. 495:
Benjamin H . R. Roberts, died May 13, 1940.

Inglewood Lodge No. 421 :
Carlos R. Engle, died July 7, 1940.
York Lodge No. 423:
Charles Robert Church, died May 15, 1940.
Alvah Franklin Cob, died July 22, 1940.
Holtville Lodge No. 425:
William Earnest Beale, died September 16, ·1939.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427:
Edgar F . Church, died January 23, 1940.
San Dimas Lodge No. 428:
Herbert Clare Foster, died January 29, 1940.
Standard Lodge No. 440:
Clyde LaMonte Foster, died September 27, 1939.
Blackmer Lodge No. 442:
Charles Woodman Potter, died August 1, 1939.
Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448:
Michaelis Neustadter, died May 18, 1940.
· Van Nuys :Lodge No. 450:
Bert Richard Holloway, died April 25, 1940.
Edward S. Tripp, died July 23, 1940.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452:
Charles Lester Carmody, .died June 19, 1940.
Alvin Wallace Viney, died February .16, 1940.

Capital City Lodge No. 499:
James Harold Bligh, died June 7, 1940.
Westwood Lodge No. 501:
Chas. Christiansen Watkins, died April 27, 1940.
Point Lodge No. 503:
Charles John Peterson, died April 15, 1940.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509:
Karl Neidig Eckers, died .July 27, 1940.
George William ~arshall, died October 13, 1938.
Cupertino Lodge .No. 510:
Hamilton McVlcar Russell, died June 7, 1940.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529:
Edwin Fuller Symonds, died March 22, 1940.
Alexandria Lodge No. 531 :
Frank Goodwin Hobbs, died June 14, ~940.
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535:
Walter Kimple Tuller, died September. 27, 193.9
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541:
Charles Frederick Shaw, died September 12, 1939.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542:
Walter Haslem Roberts, died December 24, 1939.
Fairfax Lodge No. 556:
W illiam Henry Wenegard Stine, died November 4, 19:19.

193

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

194

195

Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568:
John McSweyn, died February 11, 1940.
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569:
Duffy Leonard Barnewell, died July 9, 1940.
John Henry Cemon, died September 4, 1939.
Clifford Frank Wurfel, died May 4, 1940.
Progressive Lodge No. 578:
Clarence Eugene Altig, died December 2, 1939.
Security Lodge No. 581:
Clyde Sullivan Maledy; died November 22, 1939.
Emil J. Schmidt, died June 7, 1940.
El Sereno Lodge No. 588:
John Albert Davis, died April 17, 1940.
Jubilee Lodge No. 604:
Judson Graham Sutherland, died July 27, 1940.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607:
John William Haman, died July 28, 1940.
Fortitude Lodge No. 624:
Frederick L. Shaw, died December 7, 1939.
Fairview Lodge No. 629:
Harry Maguire, died December 23, 1939.
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632:
Frederick Harvey Schneider, died January 16, 1940.
Riverside Lodge No. 635:
Thomas Francis Flaherty, died October 5, 1939.
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642:
Arthur Judson Young, died February 15, 1940.
Menlo Park Lodge No. 651:
Tillman Bryan Hunnell, died April 18, 1940.
Jordan Lodge No. 654:
Albert Perry Henry, died August 12, 1939.

.....

Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660:
Irl Joseph DeFount, died July 1, 1940.

Ojai Lodge No. 663:
Clark Vernon Miller, died November 3, 1939.
Vocal Solo: "Among the Roses" (Reichardt) ............ Gwynfy Jones

If a Man Die, Shall He Live?

By REYNOLD E. BLIGHT

M:. W:. Grand Master and Brethren:
We are becoming too familiar with death. Death, which should always
be a serene benediction, a splendid tragedy or a shattering horror, has become commonplace. Time was when no reputable magazine would show
the picture of a dead body, but now hideous grotesqueries are splashed
across whole pages, and there is no protest. Berlin · calmly announces that
30,000 people were killed in Rotterdam in the air raid after the city had
surrendered and casually regrets that it had not been possible to call back
the bombers, although the army had surrendered. Artists graphically portray machine guns spraying the roads crowded with helpless refugees.
The newspapers publish a picture of a liner torpedoed in niid-ocean. The
water is filled with black dots and the caption explains that each dot rep·resents the bobbing head of a drowning man and that twenty minutes after
the picture was taken, not a survivor remained. We glance at the picture
light-heartedly and, stifling a yawn, turn the page to read the box score
of yesterday's game. We joyfully acclaim the news that a hundred Nazi
air raiders have been shot down. Merciful Christ, two hundred men died
in that flaming hell in the blue skies over the English coast, and we do
not flutter an eyelash.
Perhaps it is just as well that we .ar,e tqo callous-too dumb, if you
li~e-to fully realize the appalling drama qf death being enacted before
our eyes: If we took it literally the mind would snap under its unrelieved
frightfulness and the human heart would break under the impact of the
world's agony. Just as the camera lens can take in only the limit~d range
of its focus, so the human mind can regist'et . only that sorrow that touches
it sensitively.
.
.
,'
Death means little to us until the shadow that we fear and hate falls
across the threshold of our home and ravishes the loved ones from our
arms. Then
come fac·e to face with the grimmest, the most implacable
fact of human existence; and usually we ~read the via dolorosa alone.
Have you ever thought upon the ·lonelin.e ss of the human soul? Men
march and play and make war and run ,political campaigns in mobs, in
thronging crowds; but they suffer and pray ·a nd die alone.
Have you ever seen a strong man pass through a great agony ? It is
a ner ve-shattering sight. Wrapped within the seclusion of supreme tragedy,
l;ie walks the way of sorrows alone and no one may catch step with him
and no one may comfort him. The friend, even though bound to him
by ties of closest intimacy and sympathy, is stricken into silence. Gethsemane is the most lonely spot in the world. Jesus was never more intensely
human, never touched our pitiful, broken humanity more tenderly than
in that tragic moment when he cried from the Cross : "My God, my God,
why hast thou forsaken me?"l
Have you ever watched a man die? It is an experience that plumbs
the profoundest dep.ths of the human spirit. You have not sounded the
deeps of human emotion until you have held a loved one in your arms,
and watched him or her slip away into the shadows, watched while the
men:iless clock ticked off the fleeting seconds, watched while the pulse
beat slower and slower until at last it was but a flutter, watched the color
fade from the face as the tide of life receded.

we,

PROCEEDINGS Oi' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

How desperately you wanted to break through that impalpable but
impenetrable wall that separated you. How you reached with impotent
fingers into the invisible to touch once more the loved hand. How you
choked back the cry that rose involuntarily to .the lips, seeking to call
back the beloved spirit that was going out into the darkness. And when
the droop of the head and the last shuddering gasp told you the end had
come-how utterly alone you felt, how utterly bereft.
Death is such a shattering experience it must hold some supreme significance.
As we meet today in this beautiful association .of brotherhood, we
look sadly upon the vacant places, reminding us of beloved brethren who
met with us last year but will never meet with us again. We recall their
names. We recount their virtues. We tell of their good deeds and we
remind one another of happy experiences had together.

No, no--man has not been content to bow the head of hopeless
despair in the face of the great mystery. Rather does he say, in the words
of the famous agnostic: "From the voiceless lips of the unreplying dead
there comes no word; but in the night of death hope sees a star and listening love can hear the flutter of a wing."9 And it is not wholly wishful
thinking, not merely the upsweep of quickened imagination, that causes
that star to become " some white, tremendous daybreak"lO and that fluttering wing become the Te Deum of a heaven\,Y host. The deepest intuitions
of the soul confirm the exultant declaration of Longfellow in the familiar
poem:

196

Lo, some we loved, the loveliest and the best
That time and fate from all their vintage prest,
Have drunk their cup a round or two before,
And one by one crept silently to rest.2
It is eminently fitting that we should, at the order of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, pause in our deliberations not only to pay tribute
to those who have gone, but to ponder upon the meaning of this experience we call death.
Nor should we resent the call to such a meditation, although most of
us can sympathize with that good man who, when a persistent friend
demanded his opinion about life after death, replied testily: "Of course
I believe we shall all enter into bliss, but I wish you wouldn' t talk about
such unpleasant subjects."
'
Let us once and for all get over the foolish notion that death is a
morbid subject. Wise men have always pondered upon the meaning of
death. Plato once defined philosophy as a meditation on death. One can
and should take a sane, healthful attitude toward the subject. Charles
Frohman, on the shuddering deck of the sinking Titanic, smiled and said:
"Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure in life." Tennyson,
the great-hearted, when told that he was dying, exclaimed : "Death! Ah,
that is well." Clemenceau, the old tiger, declared, as he approached the
end: "Death is a magnificent purification of life."3 And Admiral Sigsbee,
after a life crowded with adventure and achievement, peered expectantly
at the· distant horizon and cried : "It seems I am once more putting out to
sea."
The seers and poets have all given an affirmative answer to the challenge: if a man die, shall he live ? Seldom is heard the pathetic plaint of
Theodore Dreiser: " As I see it, the utterly infinitesimal individual weaves,
among the mysteries, a flosslike and wholly meaningless course, if course
it be. I catch no meaning from all I have seen, and pass quite as I came,
confused and dismayed."4 Or the hopeless cry of Maurice Maeterlinck:
"Since humanity began to exist it has not advanced a sing le step on the
road of the mystery of immortality."5 Or the troubled lament of Prospero :
We are such stuff as dreams are made on,
And our little life is rounded with a sleep.ft
Perhaps the saddest line in all literature is the heart-breaking cry of
Hamlet just as the curtain descends upon that "supreme tragedy 0£ the
. human dream."7 The noble prince exclaims with his last . breath: "The
rest is silence."8

197

Life is real! Life is earnest I
And the· grave is not its goal;
Dust thou art, to dust returnest,
Was not spoken of the soul.11
Rising to the glad assurance of Tennyson, poet and mystic:
My own dim life should teach me this,
That life shall live forevermore,
•Else earth is darkness at the core,
And dust and ashes all that is ... 12
Thou wilt not leave us in the dust:
Thou madest man, he knows not why,
He thinks he was not made to die ;
And thou hast made him: thou art just.
Thine are these orbs of light and shade ;
Thou madest life in man and brute;
Thou madest death; and lo, thy foot
Is on the skull which thou hast made.13
Man has always believed in life beyond the grave. Even the cave men
of the Neanderthal age left evidence that they buried their dead in the
hope of future existence. At Le Moustier the skeleton of a youth about
sixteen years of age was found ca~efully placed in the attitude of sleep
with the right forearm under the head. A bed of flint chips formed his
pillow and close by his hand was a splendid implement. The men of the
neolithic and bronze ages painted the bones of their dead red. The purpose
of the rite is clear, for red is the color of living health.14
From the very cradle of civilization in pre-historic India, from the
slopes of the Himalayas, come the Vedic hymns attesting how strong was
the belief, even in that early time, in the future life, and also it was given
a spiritual significance. One quatrain especially has been immortalized in
lines of imperishable beauty by that splendid poet and good Mason, Sir
Edwin Arnold, in his translation of the Bhagavadgita:
Never the spirit was born, the spirit shall cease to be, never ;
Never was time it was not, end and beginning are dre;i.ms,
Birthless and deathless and changeless remaineth the spirit forever,
Death hath not touched it at all, dead though the house of it
seems.16
The philosophers of the ancient Mediterranean world held an exalted
thought of immortality. Asserts P lato: "the immortality of the soul has
been established beyond the reach of doubt."16 Aristotle declares : "Whatsoever that be within us that feels and thinks and animates is something
celestial, divine, and consequently imperishable."17 And our ancient brother,
Pythagoras, somewhere has said : "When thou shalt have laid aside thy

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

bod)', thou shalt rise, freed from mortality, and become a god of the kindly
skies."
Socrafes, one of the noblest characters of the early days of Greece,
after he had drunk the hemlock and was composing himself for the final
act of the tragedy, good humoredly chaffed his disciple Crito when Crito
asked him : "In what way shall we bury you?" "However you wish," Socrates replied, "only you must catch me first, and see that I don't slip·
away." ' Which was in keeping with the admonition he had addressed to
hiS followers: "Be of good cheer about death and know this of a truththat no evil can happen to a good man, either in life or after death."18
Judaism had little to say about the future life, but the whole sweep
of the later Christian eschatology or doctrine of last things is implicit in
the vivid and poetic myth of the creation of man: "God breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life and man became a living soul.~'19
So we are brought to Christianity with its jubilant teaching of the
resurrection of the dead centering in the transcendent miracle of the resurrection of Christ. The Christian standing by an empty tomb sees the
mystery and horror stripped away and the future made radiant with hope
and joy.
Perhaps the tenderest passage in a11 the Scriptures of the world is the
story of Jesus gathedng His disciples around Him, when already the baleful
shadow of the cruel Cross was falling across His path, as He comforts
them with the words: "Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God,
believe also in me. In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were
not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I
go and prepare a place for you, I will come ·a gain and receive you unto
myself, that where I am there ye may be also."20
The writings of the Apostle Paul are full of the glad tidings. "Behold,"
he writes to the Corinthian Christians, "I show you a mystery . .. the dead
shall be raised incorruptible and we shall be changed."21
"In another letter to these same Corinthians appears a passage that is
part of our Masonic burial service: " For we hope that if our earthly house
of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens."22
So vivid and vital is this truth to Paul that at times the highest flights
of purest eloquence are inadequate to the splendor of his theme. Writing
fo his beloved co-worker and young disciple, Timothy, he speaks of "the
appearing of our Saviour, Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and
brought life and immortality to light through the gospel."23
In fact it is not too much to say that the hope of the resurrection
was the conquering dynamic of the Christian evangel. Before the proclamation of this Gospel brutal kings trembled, thrones of injustice tottered,
and pagan civilizations crumbled. The liturgy of the church emphasizes and
re-emphasizes the centrality of immortality in the Christian faith. It finds
its most beautiful expression in the prayer that opens the· communion service in the Anglican rite : "we also bless thy Holy Name for all thy servants departed this life in thy faith and fear, beseeching thee to grant them
continual growth in thy love and service."24 Love, service, continual growth,
dominant in the concept of the future life, could anything be more uplifting and inspiring?
•. :
· In the light of this unanimous .testim~ ny through the centuries to the
truth of immortality, it is easily unde.rstood why Freemasonry, enshrining
0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

199

as it does the winnowed wisdom of the ages, has made belief in immortality a cardinal tenet of its teachings. Says Albert Pike, one of the greatest Masonic scholars of any country, "To every Mason, the soul of man
is immortal. Whether it emanates from and will return to God, and what
its continued mode of existence thereafter, each judges for himself. Masonry was not made to settle that."25
The glorious climax of our sublime ritual proclaims that the soul of
man, faithful to its trust, loyal to principle, does not go down into the
grave, but purified by suffering, it wings its way above the murk and fog
of our mundane life to find its larger fulfilment in the realms of light.
Cecil B. deMille, the famous dramatist, tells us of a startling experience
he had. He says:
"Many years ago I was commissioned by David Belasco to write a
play, "The Return of Peter Grimm." The play was being written for David
Warfield and the story hinged upon the continuation of life after death.
" I got the inspiration for that story from a water beetle.
"I was up on a lake in the Maine woods. The canoe was drifting. I
was reading, resting, searching for an idea. I looked down in the water,
for my little craft had drifted to where the lake was only about four inches
deep. There, in a world 6f mud and wet, were water beetles.
"One crawled up on the gunwale, stuck the talons on his legs into
the woodwork, and died.
"I let it alone and turned to 'my reading.' The sun was hot. In about
three hours I looked at my water beetle again. He was parched. His back
was cracking open. I watched and out .of the back of that dead beetle 1
saw crawling a new form-a moist head-then wings. A most beautiful
dragonfly. It scintillated all the colors of the rainbow.
"As I sat watching, it flew. It Hew farther in a second than the water
beetle had crawled in days. It hovered above the surface, just a few inches
from the water beetles beneath. They did not know it was there.
"I took my fingertip and moved the shriveled water beetle husk from
the canoe's gunwale. It fell back into the lake' and sank down to the mudcovered bottom.
"The other water beetles crawled awkwardly to see what it was.
"It was a dead body.
"They backed away from it.
"If God does that for a water beetle, don't you believe he will do it
for me?"26
So faith reads a profound meaning in the mystery. So faith, springing
from the deepest intuitions of the soul, strikes down the negation, and
even in the agony of a great bereavement, proclaims the everlasting "Yes,"
and in the threnody of woe beats out the mystic music of eternal life and
hope.
As Masons, we believe in God who is Love, and we cannot think He
ever created a soul to be annihilated or lost in the eternal dark. We rely
on the Omnipotent Benevolence, who doeth all things well, from whose
great love sprang the stupendous universe in which law and order and
purpose reign, and He who spake the mighty cosmos into being and holds
the wheeling constellations in their courses, may be trusted to care for
the human souls that He has made. Feeble and foolish though they be,
they are His offspring and the children of his love.
Deep within the profoundest consciousness of man resides the assurance of immortality that tells him:
0

PROCEEDINGS .OF THE

200

The stars shall fade, the sun himself
Grow dim with age, and Nature sink in years,
But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth,
Unhurt amid the war of elements,
The wrecks of matter and the crush of worlds.27

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201

1ht ~ranb 1Lobge
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 10, 1940.

BIBLIOGRAPHY:

· (1) Matt. 27 :46, (2) Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam xxi, (3) At the grave
of his loved friend, Gustave Goffroy, 1926, (4) article in The Bookman, (5)
Harper's Magazine, December 1905, (6) The Tempest, Act IV, sc. 1, (7)
Victor Hugo, William Shakespeare, p. 234, (8) Hamlet, Act V, sc. 2 (9) Robert Ingersoll, Oration at the funeral of his brother Eben C. Ingersoll, (10)
Rupert Brooke's poem, Second Best, (11) Longfellow, A Psalm of Life, Collected Works, Cambridge Edition, p. 2, (12) Tennyson, fo Memoriam, XXXIV,
(13) Tennyson, In Memoriam, Poetic and Dramatic Works, Cambridge Edition,
p. 163, (14) Essays Catholic and Critical, edited by SelW)'n, p. 5, (15) Sir
Edwin Arnold, The Song Celestial, ch. II, (16) The Republic, (17) Metaphysics.
(18) Plato, Phaedo, (19) Gen. 2:7, (20) John 14:1-3, (21) 1 Cor. 15:51-52,
(22) 2 Cor. 5 :1, (23) 2 Tim. 1 :10, (24) The Book of Common Prayer, p. 74,
(25) Albert Pike, Morals and Dogma, p. 524, (26) article in The Los Angeles
Churchman, March 1937, p. 8, (27) Addison, Cato, Act. V, sc. 1.
A memorial Song: "Taps" (Custance) .... Gwynfy Jones and organ
. Benediction: Grand Chaplain.

. At 12 :00 o'clock noon Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00
o'Clock Thursday morning.

.,

Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
'
The Grand Master appointed Past Grand Master Burke ·as
Grand Chaplain pro tern.
'
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
· The Board of Control respectfully submits a report of i~s activities
during .the past Masonic year.
We desire again to indicate our appreciation of the information and
assistance ,given to us by our Grand Secretary, and emphasize our recognition of the assistance and cooperation given by Boards of Relief and individual Lodges.
All matters that have come before the Board have received the usual
consideration and analysis, with the objective that no justified relief should
be in any way curtailed.
The continued standardized procedure adopted by the Board of Con·
trol and the Bc;>ards of Relief, developed over the years, coupled with the
intelligent care and watchfulness exercized by the Boards of Relief, is
again reflected in the small amount of reimbursements shown in this report.
Meetings
We held a business meeting of the board on April 28,.1940, at Sacramento. A further conference was held on May 19, 1940, in Oakland. The
principal matters discussed were in connection with the employment service.
On October 7th an all-day meeting was held, the purpose · being a
further clarification of matters in connection with the annual employment
bureau reports.
Reimbursements
We believe that the Boards of Relief have made every endeavor to
secure reimbursements for relief advanced,. which is reflected in the small
amount of reimbursements requested.
We have recommended to the Finance Committee that the following
requests for reimbursements be granted :
San. Francisco Board of ~e,lj~f,:....,...7.'.... , •• ~ •• 7....... '.••••••:,...............:.$ 77.28
East Bay Masonic Boa.r d of RelieL. ..................~ .. ::............ ~ .......:. 180.00
San Bernardino Board of Relief... .........................................:....... 16.39
Los Angeles Board of Relief... ................................ ;.............;;:•.:..... 107.00
Rialto Lodge No. 582.............................................. :.......- .......:.-...... 98.39
Total.........,..............- ..................................................................$479.06

202

PROCEEDINGS: OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Compl!-ratively Inactive Boards of Relief
The· Board of Control finds cert:!.irt.' Boar9s of Relief are doing an exceedingly small amount of work and further consideration will be given as
to the advisability of recommending their discontinuance or continued
recognition by the Grand Lodge.
Employment Service
Placing our Brethren and their dependents in a position to take their
places among their neighbors and fellows as self-supporting, self-respecting
citizens is practicing Masonry in the highest sense of the word. Nothing
destroy's a man's morale so much as being unemployed, and nothing restores and builds his morale as does gainful einploymerit._
Our seven employment services have closed the most helpful and successful year in our history; 12,154 jobs were sect1red for our brethren and
dependents, and this in the face of keen competition.
It is encouraging to note the change in trends as compared with a
year ago. The number of applications received this fiscal year was 17,650,
as compared to 19,066 in the year previous; a reduction of 7.5%. This is
the first time in several years that there has been a reduction in the number of applications received. On the other hand,' there were 12,154 jobs •
secured, as compared with 10,657 during the previous fiscal year; an increase
of 14%, which is a remarkable showing. During this year employer interest
has been greatly increased; 14,836 employers' inquiries for help were received in our offices.
The total expens~ for the year was $29,005.99, of which amount Grand
Lodge appropriated $14,150.00, or 49%, the other 51% being provided by
the Lodges and other Masonic bodies served.
The average cost per job secured was $2.39, as compared with $2.64
last year. Had these jobs been secured through private fee -charging agencies, our distressed brethren would have paid out more than $150,000.00
in fees. We spent $29,000.00, but we saved them mote than five times that
amount. No one ever made a more profitable investment. This employment
service cost the Grand Lodge $1.16 per placement.
Changed business conditions have had something to do with the fine
showing made this year, but much credit is due the thirteen men and women
who operate our seven employment services, the Employment chairmen
and committees in our Lodges., and our brethren generally.
Member interest is of great help and can and should be stimulated.
Let's give our Employment people a hand-a hand for what they have
done and a helping hand in the coming year.
Appropriations
It has been the policy of the Grand Lodge for many y~ars to contribute
various sums of money to the support of the several employment services.
In addition to these appropriations made by the Grand Lodge, the local
Boards of Relief expend money from their own funds to such an extent as
will not curtail or cripple their own work. We have carefully considered
the requests of these Boards and have recommended to the Finance Committee the following appropriations for 1940-41:
Los Angeles ............................;:....................................
Long Beach-special ............,. ........ ,........~ ... ;..•....:.....;$ 200.00
Long Beach-regular .. ................................................ 2000.00

$ 4800.00
2200.00

203

Sacramento-'-special .......... :........................................ 100.00
Sacramento-regular ................................................ 900.00

1000.00

Oakland ........................................................................
Fresno-special .......................................................... 200.00
Fresno-regular .......................................................... 800.00

2400.00
1000.00

San Diegcr-special...................................................... 200.00
San Diego-regular .................................................... 1000.00

1200.00

San Francisco ..............................................................

2800.00

Total.. ...~ .......;;.; .... ;..............................................

$15,400.00

s.

EUGENE
ELKUS
FRANK TADE
BEN G. WRIGHT
JAMES R. ERSKINE
WM. T. WHEELING

Committee

Report was adopted, excepting those portions requesting
appro·priations, which were referred to the Committee on Finance.
SUMMARY OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
Alameda:
Balance on hand as per last reJ!)orL ....................... .
Receipts .......................................................................... None

$

37.54

Total balance on hand , and receipts ................

$

37.54

$

2.11

Balance cash on ·hand July 31, 1940.......................................... ~.$

35.43

Disbursements
For ReUef..........:................................................:....:..... None
Telegraph ..........................................:._ .,•....•.•"""...........$
.76
Postage ....... :....................................................................
.SO
Auto expense.,................................................................
.85
Total disbursements ...................;..........................

Richmond: Board of Relief is composed of officers of each Lodge and
meets at call of President. There are no paid employees.
Balance on hand as per last report..........................
$
17.77
Receipts ............... :................-..............,........................... N one

$

17.77

Total disbursements ........................................:: ....

$

5.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1940.....

$

12.77

Total balance on hand and receipts .• :......:..""
Disbursements
For relief ........................................................................ None
Audit ....;................................. ;...:..- ................... :....•. ;..'....$
5.00

y . .. . . . . .: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . .

204

Bakersfield: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Senior Wardens of four Lodges and meets quarterly. There is one paid employee, the
Secretary, who receives $10.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer
are bonded in the sum of $500.00 each.
$ 120.36
.Balance on hand as per last reporL ....· ···'···············

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges .................... $

310.50

310.50

Total receipts and balance on hand ..........................................$

.
Disbursements
Secretary expense..........................................................$
For employment service ..............................................

430.86

315.00
18.65

Total disbursements ........................................... .

$

333.65

Balance on hand July 31, 1940....................................................$

97.21

Honolulu: Board of Relief is composed of four Lodges and meets
monthly. No paid employees. Treasurer's bond is in the sum of $500.00.
Balance on hand as per last report..........................
$ .1,540.84

Receipts
Other Lodges in U. 5 ...................................................$
Foreign Lodges ...................................................... ,...•...
Interest ......................................................................... .

38.20
27.20
92.19

Checking a/c to savings a/c .......•......: .........................

157.69
10.00

Total receipts and balance on hand ................................... ,......$ 1,708.53

Disb!4rsements
For ReliefOther·Lodges in U.S... ,....... ,.............·......................$
Foreign Lodges .•.•.... - ......................,.....................
Individuals donations ....................- ........................
1·

\

'.

· Rent safe deposit· box:::.:.c::.... :.. :...c.............. :............. .
Telegraph ......................................................................
Postage ·.... .-.-.......: ............................................................
Miscellaneous gifts ....................................................... .
Transferred to· savings a/c........................................
,.
~

·:•; '\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

205

Balance on hand as per last report..........................

$ 1,493.99

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

$

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges ........................$ 3,408.01
Grand Lodge of California.......:..................................
270.00
Other Lodges in U. S.................................................... 1,466.11
Foreign Lodges ..... ,......... ,..............................................
110.50
Funeral reinloursements..............................................
226.00
Interest ..........................................................................
27.44

5,508.06

Total receipts and balance on hand .........:......................... :... :::$ 7,002.05

Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges ....................................$ 290.50
·other Lodges in-U. $ ............. :: ............... :.................... 1,433.53
120.00
F c1reign Lodges ...... :::... :::...................................... :.... ..
315.95
Funerals · ...................................................................... ..
697.50
Contributed to Employment Service....................... .
.
.
..
$. 2,857.48
Salaries .......-...................................................................$ 2,100.00
Rent .......... '. ................................................... :................·:
180.00
Insurance and bond......................................................
43.26
Telephone ...... :............................................:............. ~....
63.60
Postage ..........................................................................
44.10
Printing and stationery................................................
36.27
Audit ..............................................................................
25.00
Miscellaneous .......................................,.........................
65.28
Grand Lodge representative......................................
37.50
$ 2,595.01
Total disbursements ........................... :........................................$ 5,452.49
Balance on hand July 31, 1~0..... ,..............................................$ 1,549.56

129.45
18.90
20.00

Glendale: ·
Balance on hand as per. last report.. ...................... ..

_Receipts ·
Other Lodges in U. S............. ,........... ,. ....... ,.... ,.-......$
Funeral reimburserp.ents ........, .................................... .

168.35
4.40
4.86
2.00
29.30
10.00

$ 50.56
Total disbursements .... ,........................................................ ,,: ......$

$
397.00
37.21

., " Total receipts and b;tlance on hand ..........................................$

218.91

'Balance on hand July 31; 1940'..::........:.................................... :$ 1,489.62
Bonds on hand July 31, 1940•.•.•.;..:............................................. $ 2,097.13

Long Beach: Boa~d of .Relief is -~o~posed of Masters and Wardens of
each Lodge a~d meets monthly. There are two paid employees, the SecreC~l"Y wh~ receives $150.00 per month ..and assistant $15.00. Tl;le . Secretary
..and ..Treasurer are bonded in the suni. of $500.00 each. Compensation and
'iiU.t() inst1ra11ce are carried. One a.utomobile is used.

Disbursements
For. reliefFunerals committee servi<;es. ........... .:...:..................$
Individuals do,na.tions .............~::..'.'..'...... '. ................... .
i.

'

•.

~ .. .. ....

"

$

l'elegraph .~ .. ;........::.. :::: ... :: ....;:;: ...:: ...•:......:: ... ::.::...... :.•$
Check boc;>k. ...,:: ...........::.:::.:: ........:.::: ................... ::: ........

434.21
646.88

40.60
427.00
467.60
13.23
1.00

Total disbursements ...................................................................... $
Balarn:_e 9Ii.~aP,d July 31, 1940................................................,. ...$
.. •'

.

212.67

481.83
165.05.

206

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

Santa Barbara:
Balance on hand as per last rep.ort ......................... .

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges..................•....•$
California Lodges .....................•.........,.....,......- ...•...•.....
Other Lodges in U. S..........., ..........,......... ~····-····--Individual reimbursements ........................................

$

125.00
21.60
240.00
11.13

397.93

Total receipts and balance on hand ..:...•...•..•......- ....................$

Disbursemeiits
For relief, other Lodges in U. S ......... - ....:...............$
Individual donations ....................................................

~ ~:

39.19

437.12

240.00
20.72
260.72
.52

Total disburseme"nts ................... :...................... :...........................$

381.24

Balance on hand Jtily 31, 1940....................................................$

55.88

Oakland and Berkeley: Board of Relief is composed of members from
each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a Secretary
at a salary of $2012.50 "per annum; and Assistant Secretary, $600.00.
Treasurer is bonded in the sum of $2000.00. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report..........................

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges ......................$ 5,219.69
Grand Lodge of California..........................................
345.00
California Lodges.......................................................... 2,692.70
Other Lodges in U. S................................................... 1,293.29
Foreign Lodges ........................:.......•.................-........
317.16
Funeral reimbursements..............................................
584.98
Individual reimbursements for charity fund..........
27.60
Interest ..........................................................................
231.56
Miscellaneous refunds ...................................... ~~.: ..'..;...
35.39

$11,997.74

$ 5,927.62

Santa Monica: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
and holds three meetings per month. There is one paid employee, a Secretary who receives $180.00 per annum. The Secretary and Treasurer are
bonded in the amount of $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last report.. .....................,... .
$ 140.29
Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges .....•..................$ 524.25
Other Lodges in U. 5 ...................................................
109.00 .
Funeral reimbursements ......................................, ...... .
104.00
2.66
PC}Stage, State tax, etc....................:........................... .
739.91
Total receipts and balance on hand ...•.••.....- ...•........................$

880.20

Disbursements
For reliefOther Lodges in U. 5 ...............................................$
Funerals, flowers ..................................................... .

$
Salaries ··················•··················'·····•· .. ,...........................
Telegraph ......................................................................
Travel ....................•.......................................................
Audit ..............................................................................
Hospital radio rental.. .•........•..................'·····•··'···········
Aprons ............................................................................

119.00
101.47
220.47
180.00
2.47
270.00
5.00
5.50
24.00

$10,747.37

Total receipts and balance on hand .......................................... $22,745.11

,
Disbursements :·.
For relief, California Lodges......................................$ 2,839.46
Other Lodges in U. S ........................•...........·-········ 1,674.01
Foreign Lodges ................, ............•.........................~..
440.44
Funerals ......................................................................
457.96
Funerals Committee services..................................
496.00
Individual donations from Charity Fund............
17.75

Salaries ........::...... --···············'•:..................-.,:...........••. ___ $ 2,760.00
Rent .................................................•..............................
300.00
Insurance and bond:...............•.......•.:.•............•...•,.......
37,87
Telephone and teleJirai>h:·········~:-~·-··············,,·:······:··273.04
Postage ..........................................................................
44.01
Printing and statio.nery................................................
20.44
Office suppl'e,................................................................
24.79
Auto expenses................................................................
170.85
Travel ..............................................................................
50.00
Audit ..............................................................................
50.00
Christmas donations....................................................
3·0.00
Taxes, one-half cost of typewriter............................
,50.37
Miscellaneous ...........................................'.'........'.....:......
49.84
Care of cemetery plot...............•....•......•.._. ..,.......•••.- •...,..
20.00
Total disbursements ....................................................................$ 9,808.83
Balance on hand July 31, 1940.................................................... $12,936.28

:·-··--~···'. ~ .J 120.00

Salaries •........,...:...•. ....... .......:_:•..
•..•..• .•.•.
Printing and sa.t ionery ................................................

207

Total disbursements .................................................................... $
Balance on hand July 31, 1940...........:...........•....•.......................$

707.44
172.76

Stockton: Board of. Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
meets monthly. There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives
a salary, including expenses, of $80.00 per annum. One auto is used.
Balance on hand as per last report............................
$
33.70
Receipts
California Lodges.................................................:........$ 457.00
Other Lodges in U, 5 .................................................. .
240.00
216.00
Funeral reimbursements ............................................. .
913.00
Total receipts and balance on hand ........................................$

946.70

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements
57.00
For relief, California Lodges...:::.:......:.......;.....:.........$
240.00
Other Lodges in·U. 5.:._-::..:............-.._........:..............
Funerals .._...........::::....:.:::....:.., ...:....:..:........................ · 216.00
149.70
Individual donations.c..;;..:..;.......................-···········-

.•

.,

Salaries ...~..,..•:......._-::.~·.;;....::..::.:.:::..:..::.:.;.:::....;..:....:_....$
Telephone and telegraph ...............:............................
Postage .........................-.................................................
Office supplies.......::.......:..:......:.-...-............:....-................
Christmas donations ...........................:........................

662.70
200.00
37.00
12.50
4.50
30.00
946.70

Balance on hand July 31, 1940......................:.:......-....,.........."...... None

61.47

$

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges........................$
Other Lodges in U. 5 .....................•.............................
Individual_reimbursements ..........................................
From other source..:::: .............:.............................,......

282.00
481.25
10.00
60.14

833.38

Total receipts and balance on hand ..........................................$
Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges ......................................$
Other Lodges in U. 5 ......•.-...•............ ~..-.•................
Funerals ................................................................•.....
Opening and closing grave ........:....................:........

$
Telegraph •.....................................................................

Po~ta_ge ----~---··:···:·············-,····-,······································

Pnntmg and stationery................................................
Office supplies............... ~ ........,,.................,....:...............

894.86

2.00
39.00
452.25
28.00

Salaries
... ,.
Printing and stationery.............•......:..·-·······-············
Audit ................................................................................
Social Security expense.............................................•

820.00
900.00
5.67
10.00
9.00

S_a n Francisco: Board of Relief is composed of Master or representative of each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a
Secretary who receives a salary of $250.00 per month, and a typist or clerk
who receives $40.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded
in the sum of $2000.00 each. Fidelity and carrier insurance and compensation insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report.. ..........................

$12,400.36

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges ......................$ 4,618.75
Grand Lodge of California..... --·································
26.95
California Lodges......................·..................•................. 1,772.18
Other Lodges in U. 5 ...........:.:.......................:........... 1,994.30
Foreign Lodges............:........................:.........................
235.40
Bonds called.................... ·-········-·····························:... 2,000.00
Profit on bonds...... _...................!..............................~...
100.00
Interest ,...,... ,. .............................>..................................
749.17

11,496.75

Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges.................................,..$ 1,804.14
Other Lodges in l]. 5............................................... 1,850.15
Foreign Lodges ...............................,..........:...............
101.75
Contributed to Employment service...........:.:......
300.00

521.25
1.39
4.61
15.72
4.43
547.40

Balance on hand July 31, 1940......:-···········································-$

347.46

. Pasadena : Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and meetings are held as called. There is one paid employee, the Secretary,
who receives a salary of $75.00 per month. The Secretary is bonded in the
sum of $500.00. Auto insurance is carried. One automobile is used.
:8alance on hand as per last repor.t................:...........
$ 704.12

883.00
610.00
150.00

670.00
150.00

Total receipts and balance on hand .................:........:...............$23,897.11

Total , disbursements·.·····:·····.-···-····.····--·,·:··········· ..-········--\ ..........$

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges........................$
Other Lodges in U. S~ .......................................:........
Funeral reimbursements..............................................

Disbursements
For r.elief, other Lodges in U. S.:.·-·············•···-····-$
Funerals ...........•........................•........•........................

Total disbursements ......................................................................$ 1,744.67
Balance· on hand .July 31, 1940..................................................$ 602.45

Total disbursements ....•-.-.c:..........~......•.................••.......:..............$

San Bernardino:
Balance on hand as per last report ............................

209

j: 4,056.05
3,540.00
Salaries
360.00
Rent ··································•······················-·····················
38.34
Insurance and bond............................•.,........••.............
162.19
Telephone and telegraph ...............•..................,..........
90.29
Postage ..........,........•......................................................
8.76
Printing and stationery................................................
9.27
Office supplies.........:......:......::....:·........:: .... - .....:...:.".......
600.00
Auto expense..........:....:.......... ;.....:.....:....:........:....:........
35.00
Audit ........".. ,.~--·····························································A
14.64
Miscellaneous ...................................::...........•...............

s

Total di_sbursements ...........:.................~ .........~ ...........; ................$ 8,904.54

1,643.00

Total receipts and balance on hand.......- .......•......"...................-$ 2,347.lZ

'

· Balance on hand July 31, 1941L....'. ...'...........:.:.....:....................~$14,992.57

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Diego: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives a
salary of $810.00 per year. Fidelity and carrier insurance is carried. One
automobile is· used.
'
$ 1,818.29
Balance ~;:j hand as per last report............................

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges ...............:,, ..... :$ 1;172.05
Grand Lodge of California, Employment... ... .,........ . 750.00
California Lbdges.,........,.... .,....,.........•...•............•.•- .•'-'·· 1,344.59
Other Lodges.in U. S ..•......•..... - ....;............................. 2,098.18
Funeral reimb,ursements..............................................
945.75
Individual .reimbursemeQts ........................................ ;.
59.33
Inte~est .............................................:............................
11.29

6,381.19

Total receipts and b.alance on hand ..... ,....................................$ 8,199.48

Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges......................................$ 1,483.49
Other Lodges in U. S .... ·-·•···~··········'··•'· ..- ...:......... 2,043.94
Repayment to Grand Lodge of California..........
20.00
Funerals ......................................................................
933.81
Individual donations................................................
52.99

Dis bursemen ts
For relief, California Lodges.•.......•..........................$
Other Lodges in U. S ..... :...·......•.-·..•.:....••;-.;····-······
Foreign Lodges ....................................................... .
Funerals ................................................................... .
Contributed to Employment service ....................
Individual donations ..............................................•:

579.05
340.74
250.88
670.60
375.00
185.00

$ 2,401.27
Salaries ....,............:•.•.................:...•....... :..•...:...:.•..•.....•.$ 1,088.00
Insurance and bond.........................•.,...·-····················
12.48
Telephone and telegraph..............................................
51.32
Postage ..........................................................................
12.21
Printing and stationery................................................
23.25
Office supplies .................................... ~·······················-~11.29
Auto expense .......................................•.•.............•,.........
180.00
Travel .......................................:......................................
46.75
Audit ..............................., ... ,..... ,.............,......................
20.00
Miscellaneous ..................... ,........... :..............................
.46

Total disbtl~setn~nts .............•.~ ..:.:.................................................$ 3,847.03
Balance on hand July 31, 1940.:.. :........................... ,................. $ 2,238.45

$ 4,534.23
Salaries
$ 1,575.00
Rent ................................................................................
240.00
Insurance and bond.:... :.. :.......... :..................................
22.00
Telephone and telegraph:.............................................
109.00
Postage ..........................................................................
33.67
Printing and stationery................................................
20.38
Office supplies ..........................................:.....................
13.52
Auto expense..................................................-..............
100.00
Travel ..............................................................................
50.00
Audit ............................................. ,................................
30.00
Taxes ..............................................................................
6.54

Los Angeles: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and meets monthly. There are three. paid employees, a Secretary at a
salary of $250.00 per month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100.00 per
month, and a field man at a salary of $175.00 per month. The Secretary and
the Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2000.00 each. Fidelity insurance
and carrier and compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report ....:.. ,,;...................

$ 3,621.69

Receipts

Total disbursements ....................................................................$ 6,734.62
Balance on hand Ju1y 31, 1940........ ,...........................................$ 1,464.86
Sacramento: Board of Relief is composed of three members from each
Lodge. There are two paid employees, a Secretary and part-time assistant.
The total salary is $870.00 per annum. The Secretary is bonded in the sum
of $500.00.
Balance on hand as per last report ..........................
$ 2,045.43

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges ....................... .$ 1;736.71
Grand Lodge of Catifornia........................................
167.50
California Lodges ......................................................... .
587.20
Other Lodges in U. 5...................................:.............. .
292.74
Foreign Lodges•.................................,......................:... .
140.00
Funeral reimbursements............................................. .
674.28
Individual reimbursements ..........................................
210.50
Interest ..........................................................................
33.12
Breakfast fund deposited to this ac<:ount............... .
198.00

211

Per capita assessment, local Lodges ........................ $15,344.35
Non-n1ember Lodges....................................................
72.00
California Lodge$ ...................... :................................... 10,175.32
Other Lodges In U. S ................................................... 13,536.59
Foreign Lodges.....................................................:........
338.22
Interest .......................................... ~...............................
157.48
Refund excise tax, etc.....................:..............................

514.61

Total receipts and balance on hal)d ........... :..............................$43,760.26

Dis bursemenfs
For relief, California Lodges ........... ;•.................. :......$ 9,919.72
Other Lodges in U. S.•..:................................... .'...... 13,546.63
Foreign Lodges...........,..............................................
477.06
Funerals .................. :................................................. 2,775.20
Contributed to Employment service.................... 1,100.00
Drugs ..........................................................................
59.99
Individual donatio1Js ...................................... ,... :.....
· 87.99
4,040.05
$27,966.10

Total receipts and balance on hand ..........................................$ 6,085.48

39,623.96

Z12

~13

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE '

Salaries ........................;............;,•••..;.._,:;;...\~-................$ 6,654.62
Rent ................................................................................
848.00
Insurance and bond...:....:: ...,.....:............ ~....................
48.93
Telephone and telegnph, ...................................,.......
542.62
Postage ..:;...,......-............................................................
295.55
Printing and stationery....:......:.................................... · , .314.62
Furniture an.d equipment-.....................................:....
177.28
Travel ...,..,...,,.,.".·"':.................:....:............,....................
64.65
Field Representative expense....................................
630.91
Audit ................................................................................
100.00
Taxes .........................:....................................:...............
15.30
Miscellaneous .........................::.....................:...............
191.53
Clearing House reports ..:::.................................:.:.......
232.42

Receipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges........................$
California LQdg.e6.. - .................................,....................
Other Lodges in U. S...................................................
Transferred from savings to commercial a/c:.........
Outstanding checks (2) ..............................................
Interest ............................................................................
Miscellaneous ................................................................

·516.86
5.00
270.00
565.96
70.00
15.62
83.29

1,526.73

Total receipts and balance on hand .................,..........:.............$ 1,627.22
Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges.................................:....$
Other Lodges in U. S ...:...........................................

5.00
285.00

Total disburseinents ......:...........:....'......... :.....................................$38,082.53·
Balance on hand July 31; 1940.:...::...::.,....:..........................:..,...$ 5,677.73
Fresno: Board of Relief is composed of three members each of four
Lodges and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who
receives $75.00 per month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of $1000.00.
Fidelity insurance and compensation also is carried.
Balance on hand as per last report................................
Receipts ,
Per capita assessment, local Lodges.:......................$
Other Lodges in U.. S ...........,....:....•......:....•......,..........
Funeral· reimbursement.s ....,.........................................

$
918.75
49.08
87.00

103.51

54.08
87.00

$
$
Salaries
Telephone and telegraph, ...........................................
. Office supp~ell., ..............................................................
Travel ..............................................................................
, Compensation Insurance ............................................
Misce11aneous ................................................................

141.08
781.25
4.65
7.21
16.77
3.37
7.00

1,054.83
,___
_

$ 820.25
Total disbursements............,...........,.............:............................•..$

961 .33

Balanc::e on :hand July 31, 1940:.;...:.,.~;...,::.:........•.................:......$

197.01

San Jose: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens ·of five
Lodges and meets quartei'ly.· Tli,ere is· one paid employee, the . Secretary,
who receives . a ·s alary of $50.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer
are bonded in the amounCof$500.00 each. Auto ins.urance ' is. carried. One
automobile iS_tl.§..eA. . ..
.
Balance 6rl hanclas per last report.....:......................

290.00

Salaries .....:·:.....:.::.:·.....•.....'..........:......,... ~·········.-.--·:,., __:,.~.
Telegraph ......................................................................
Postage ..........................................................................
Interest deposited..........................................................
Audit ..........:.............•....................................................:
Bank service charges.............................................. :.....
Misce1laneous ................................................................

600.00
6.04
3.00
9.60
10.00
3.26
95.77.

$

727.67

Total disbursements ......................·......................,....................•....$ 1,0.17.67

Total receipts and balance on hand.:~ .......................................$ 1,158.34
Disbursements
For relief, other Lodges in U. 5......:.............- ............$
Funerals ..,.................................................., ................

$

$

100.49

BaiatJCe on hand Jnly 31, 1940...................: .......... :..::::.;::......,..$ · 609.55

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF U. C. LOS ANGELES CLUBHOUSE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California.:
As the Clubhouse at the University of California at Los Angeles enters
upon its second decade of service to its young people, we look forward to
a splendid year.
There can be no doubt but what our Clubhouses fill a very definite
and much needed requirement.· Those of you who are or may be in the
vicinity of either of these Clubhouses are urged to visit them and see for
yourselves what is being accomplished. You will be well repaid by such a
visit. Those of you who have a boy or girl attending our University or
know of any with proper Masonic ties should see that they contact the
Masonic Club which was built and is maintained for their comfort, convenience and enjoyment. Participation in its activities will give them a
richer, more interesting University life.
The official visit of the Grand Master is always the highlight of the
year. The dinner and reception given in his honor was a very enjoyable
and inspiring occasion.
During the past year, two members of our Board of Directors have
answered the final summons. Brother Frank X. Pfaffinger was our
Treasurer, and a member of the Bpard from its inception. He assisted in
the selection of the Clubhouse site and was most helpful in the negotiations for its purchase. A great man and Mason. Brother Knowlton R.
Bradley, a Past Master of South Gate Lodge No. 320, was chairman of our
Building Committee and rendered valuable service in that capacity.
The financial condition is reflected by Brother Reynold E. Blight's
report which is attached and made a part hereof.
With respect to the budget for the ensuing year, our estimate is as
follows:
Hostess ..........:..•...........................................................................••.$l,SOO.OO
Building superintendent................................................................ 720.00
Heat, light, power and water........................................................ 600.00
Additional janitorial assistance.................................................... 100.00
Gardening ........................................................................................ 265.00
Stationery and printing..........................................................:....... 225.00
Telephone ·················-····································································· 120.00
General building maintenance.................................,.................... 600.00
Office expense......................'·····································-····················
50.00
Subscriptions ............................................................................:.....
75.00
Taxes and assessments .................................................................. 1,325.69
Insurance .......................................................................................... 100.00
Auditing •.........................................................................................
50.00
Bookkeeping .........................................................:.... ~..................... 300.00
Miscellaneous .................................................................................. 250.00
Social Security.....c•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• - •••••••:......................
25.20
Janitor supplies...................................................................,............ 100.00
Postage ····························-······························································ 170.00

$6,575.89
Building depreciation reserve ................,...................•................. 1,000.00
Total.............•............,........••.- ........;.-······-····························$7,575.89

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

215

We recommend that such provision be made for support and maintenance .during the year 1940-1941 as will be adequate for the purpose.
BEN G. WRIGHT

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF U. C. BERKELEY CLUBHOUSE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
As Vice-President of the Trustees of the Berkeley Masonic Club, I
desire to make a brief report. The Clubhouse is a credit to the Masonic
fraternity. No finer body of young men and women assemble in any place
within my knowledge. Here life friendships are formed. There is no other
meeting place on the campus that approaches this Club in the upbuilding
of the character . of young men and young women. Between 200 and 300
young men and women pass through its doors daily. No investment made
by our great fra,ternity returns to us better or larger dividends than does
the Masonic Club. That the members of the Clubhouse fully appreciate
these advantages is best evidenced by the letter following from the President of the Masonic Clubhouse Council:
Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of
The Masonic Clubhouse of the University of California
Dear Sirs:
Our members have at various meetings with the men comprising our
Board of Trustees, endeavored to show our appreciation for this magnificent building and all that it has to offer. I do not know whether or not
our expressions of gratitude have ever been carried formally and presented to the Board as a whole.
With a meeting place such as you have provided, our possibilities
are unlimited to provide a social center for students with mutual affiliations. Our program is continually in operation to promote greater
acquaintance among the members. With this as our goal we cannot follow a single line of entertainment. We must experiment with activities
of every degree. This has led to glee clubs and music appreciation
groups. Our dramatic circles have made various presentations and the
support of our luncheons and picnics is well known. Of course all of
these functions are not in continuous operation but vary with the
interests and spirit of the members.
We who are at present attending the University and belong to the
Masonic Club can realize the true meaning of the club only to a limited
degree. It is when we have graduated and leave our casual camnus
friends that the true and significant meaning -behind the Masonic Club
will appear. Today and every day that I walk in the door of this building my spirit is lifted because it is here that I have made my true
friends, it is here that I have been given the opoortunitv to meet and
talk with other students having the same and varying scholastic interests.
Also, it is here that I can openly discuss everyday problems. I know of
no other body ·on the campus that has the ability to present the broadminded possibilities that are provided here in our Masonic Clubhouse.
I am aware that my opinion is shared by every member and· we only
hope that by our present program we are fulfilling the ideals upon which
this building was established.
WILLIAM G. KIRKHAM,

President, Masonic Cl1tbhottse C011ncil
Within the last year and a half the entire. building has been renovated
and refurnished and is now in perfect condition, the cost of which has been

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

folly paid. The Trustees are happy to acknowledge that the Grand Chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star of California appropriated and paid
to us the sum of five hundred dollars of the cost of these improvements.
The Club budget asks the Grand Lodge to appropriate $8,000 for the
next Masonic year. The budget and the report of a certified public accountant has been placed in the hands of the Finance Committee.

GENERAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to submit the following report:
Audit of Accounts

]OHN D. MURPHEY,

Vice President.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the Ninety-first Annual Communication of Grand Lodge:
Those entitled to compensation are the duly accredited Representatives
of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters, Officers of Grand Lodge
and the Chairmen and members of Committees enumerated in . Section 27
of the Constitution, who are actually in attendance at Grand Lodge.
Compensation of members is fixed in Section 71 of the Constitution as
being twice the single first-class one-way railway fare, plus sleeper where
necessary. As has been the custom for many wears, no compensation is
allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, nor
where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
We have computed the transportation rates from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the pay-roll with the
registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials.
The amount required t<;> meet transportation costs as provided by the Constitution, for the 1940 Communication is as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers ...........................:.............................~ ........ $ 608.38
Past Grand Masters..................................................................... .
323.38
Committees -····:· ............................. ,....... :......................................
887.60
Inspectors ................................................................ ,..................... 2,374.62
:Re·presentatives ····································-··················: ........._. .._. ..... . 13,307:32
TotaL.: ................. :...................................................!: ...........$17,501.30
Thanks are again due to Brother Louis Sutter, Past Master of Brooklyn
Lodge No. 225, and the Anglo California National Bank of San Francisco.
for making the necessary arrangements so that. members may cash their
checks in this buitding at the close of the Grand Lodge session.
]OHN W. DAVEY
LOYD
CAMPBELL
LEO V. YouNGWORTH
LYMAN 0. TUCKER
RAY
BLOSSER
ARNOLD RUMWELL

c.

·w.

Committee

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

217

\

Your Committee has again employed Brother Floyd F. Webb of the
firm of Ruckstell, Burrows and Webb, certified public accountants, to
examine the books and records of the Grand Treasurer, the Grand Secretary,
the Masonic Homes of California and the Endowment Fund. The reports
of Brother \i\T ebb's examination of these records have been filed with your
committee and have had its consideration. These reports are now on file
with the records of Grand Lodge. They indicate that all records are correct
and in proper shape and all receipts properly accounted for and all expenditures properly made.
Your Committee is again mindful of the debt it owes Brother Webb
for the personal interest he has shown in making the various audits. He
has devoted considerable time to the affairs of Grand Lodge for which he
is asking no remuneration, and for which your committee is duly appreciative.
The amount allowed for the complete audit is $300.00 in excess of the
amount allowed last year, which was $700.00. The additional allowance
has been necessary due to the additional audit it was necessary to have
made because of the death of Assistant Grand Secretary Hobbs.
The total amount paid for the audit this year is $1,000.00, of which sum
the Homes has paid $550.00 and the balance of $450.00 has been paid out
of Grand Lodge funds.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Week Activities
Your committee has had a discussion with the chairman of the Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities, who has furnished us an estimate
of the cost of entertainment which it has provided for the members who are
attending this session of Grand Lodge.
Necessarily, the best that the Activities Committee can do at this time
is to furnish an estimate of the costs, as it is impossible to determine the
actual amount of expenditure until all activities are over and all bills are
actually presented.
As has been stated in . previous reports, the Finance Committee is in
entire accord with the plan of providing the representatives attending Grand
Lodge some entertainment. It is also to be noted tbat a part of the duties
which had been assigned to this committee are the arrangements for the
transportation for the tr\p to the Decoto Home.
That there should be extensive visitations to the home is earnestly
desirable, according to our opinion. We are, therefore, very much in accord with the expenses incurred in providing for these visitations.
The Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities has a difficult duty
to perform. It is our opinion that this committee has fulfilled its obligations
in a most creditable manner. You who are listening to this report are fully
able to judge of the excellence of the entertainment provided this year.
There was appropriated at the last session, for the purpose of defraying
the expenses of this entertainment, as well as for the trips to the Home, the
sum of $2,500.00 . . According to the estimate which the Activities Committee

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

has furnished us, it would seem that this appropriation has been exceeded by
about $300.00. We approve this additional expenditure, and recommend
that the Grand Secretary pay the same.
We are of the opinion that the same amount which was appropriated
last year should again be appropriated. We therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
.Resolved, that the sum of $2,500.00, or as much thereof as may be
necessary to pay the expenses incurred by the Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee, be, and .the same is hereby appropriated out of the funds of
Grand Lodge, and that the same be allocated to the payment of the expenses incurred in the entertainment of officers and members attending the
next annual communication of Grand Lodge.

been the attitude of the Educational committee that no more would be expended than ~as found actually necessary to carry on the work. Through
Brother McClean, a request for an appropriation of the same amount as last
year has . be·~n ' niad,e of the Finance Committee. It was not possible to
determine what the needs actually are, but, as the Education Committee has
always beer;' so careful in its expenditures, your Finance Committee is
agreeable to allowing the appropriation asked for, and therefore offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption:
. Resolved, that the sum of $300.00 be appropriated out of the funds of
Grand Lodge to defray the expenses of the Education Committee in further
promoting ~ts educational plan.

218

Adopted.
Masonic History
Your committee has had a discussion with the chairman of the Masonic
!:listory Committee concerning the work he is planning on doing this coming year, as well as the amount that he will expend in performing this work.
It is to be noted that while the committee has done some excellent
work this past year, only $76.00 of the appropriation of $250.00 made last
year has been. expended by the committee. This is only in keeping v;ith the
record that this committee has made in the past, that is that much has been
:iccomplish.ed i~ seeking out and writing up the early' history of Masonry
m Cahforma, with very little cost to Grand Lodge.
. The History Committe~ is to be commended for its constant and painstakm?. effort~ a~d also for its. moderate demands for funds in seeking and
comp1hng this history. The Fmance ·Committee is in entire accord with the
work which the committee is doing and believes that it should be continued.
The History Committee is asking for the same appropriation this year as
w'.1s granted it last year, that is, the sum of $250.00. We are in accord
with the request, and therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

Resolved, that the sum of $250.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge and be paid to the chairman of the History Committee to
defray. expens~s. whic~ may b~ incurred by the committee in compiling and
preparing additional information gathered on the history of Masonry in
California.

Adopted.
Masonic Education
The chairman, Brother Heber Winder, of the Committee on Masonic
Education, due to illness, is not present at this session. As the further
advancement of our Masonic education, or, as the Grand Master has more
appropriately expressed it, Masonic advancement, has been largely carried
on ·under the personal direction of the chairman, your Finance Committee
has not been able to secure as complete information on the progress of this
movement as it wo~ld like to have.
We have, however, had Brother McClean of the Education Committee
appear before your committee, and he gave us as complete an outline as he
possessed.
It appears to your committee that this movement is making progress
and that 1.t should be encouraged to continue the efforts which it is putting
forth. It 1s also to be noted that out of the appropriation of $300.00 which
was granted this committee a year ago, only $43.00 was used. It has always

219

Adopted.
University of California Clubhouses
The Trustees of our two · Masonic Clubhouses have presented to your
Committee on Finance their reports for the year just past, together with
statements of accounts prepared by certified public accountants. It is evident that the Trustees are continuing to exercise every care in the expenditure of funds for maintenance of the Clubhouses. While doing so, however,
they have not overlooked the purposes for which these Clubhouses were
brought into being, that is, to serve in ever-increasing ways the young men
and women from Masonic families, to the end that their University life may
be enriched by Masonic infiuence.
This committee shares with the Trustees of the Clubhouses the loss
from their midst during the past year of those splendid brethren who gave
so unstintingly of their time to this worthy enterprise, R. '.W: .\Villiam
H. Waste, who served from its inception as chairman of the Trustees at
Berkeley Clubhouse, Brother Frank X. Phaffinger, Treasurer, and Brother
Knowlton R. Bradley, chairman of the Building Committee of the Los
Angeles Clubhouse.
Your Committee on Finance has approved the bu·dgets submitted by the
Clubhouses covering their operations for the coming year, and, therefore,
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $15,000.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge for the maintenance of the Masonic Clubhouses; $7,500.00 to
be paid to the Trustees of the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley, and $7,500.00
to be paid to the Trust~s of the Masonic Clubhouse at Los Angeles.

Adopted.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration the report of
the Masonic Homes Endowment Board. In reading this report, and in considering what this Board has accomplished during its existence of eight
years, we feel that the intangible results are perhaps more important than
the amount of some $500,000.00 that has been added to the fund during this
period. While this is no inconsiderable sum, and while it is important, we
feel that the work of the Board in attempting to reach the individual Mason,
and to translate Masonry to him in terms of service, is of far greater importance.
By its policy of publicizing the Homes continuously, and of keeping
before the Masons of California the problem of the Homes and of their
privilege and duty of assisting in increasing the Endowment Fund, the
Boar:d ·has made Masonry very real to many Masons. Of course, the
definite results are not known, and may never be known. We do not know
how much the Endowment Fund has benefited from wills not yet operative,

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

or how many Masons have been in'fluenced so that they, too, may eventually make substantial contributions.
Your committee feels very definitely that this good work that has been
accomplished must not be allowed to lapse, but that the Board should
have every means of assistance and encouragement made available to it
by Grand Lodge.
We commend the zeal and the faithfulness of every member of the
Board, and part~cularly of its chairman, Brother Frank M. Smith, and
~ecommend that its support by Grand Lodge be continued during the coming year,
. We therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of 6,000.00 be appropriated from the general
funds of Grand Lodge for the use of the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board during the present fiscal year.

Resolved, that the sum of $479.06 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge to reimburse all Boards of Relief and Lodges,
as above set out.

Adopted.
. Masonic Homes
Your Committee on Finance to which was referred that portion of the
report. of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes relating to the
financing of our Hqmes beg leave to report as follows: We have reviewed
the ~eport of the Board of Trustees and also the report of the certified
public accountants and are of the opinion that the financial affairs of your
Hqmes are fully and correctly reported by your Trustees.
!he. rel?ort of the Trustees gives in detail the financial management of
o~r institutions and we do not believe it necessary to here go into detail
with reference to their report. Suffice it to say, we commend to the officers
of Lodges .that they familiarize themselves with the report of the Trustees
that they in turn may report to their respective Lodges. We have discussed the needs of the Homes for the coming year with the chairman of
the Board of :rrustees and believ.e that their recommendation of forty ( 40)
cents per capita tax for the coming year should be continued. We therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
'
Resolved, that the sp~cial per capita tax for the maintenance of the
Masonic Homes be set at forty ( 40) . cents.

Adopted.
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
. Your committee has examined the report of the Board of Control on
reimbursement of Boards of Relief and Masonic Employment Service and
commend that Board
its thoroughness and excellent supervision of the
several Boards of Relief, and adds a word of commendation for the ceaseless efforts of the Boards of Relief and Masonic Employment Service.
The report of the Board of Control recommends reimbursements to
Boards of ReHef and Lodges as follows:
ian .Franc~.co Board of Relief........................................................$ 77.28
ast Bay oard of Relief... ...........................................- ................ 180.00
~~~ :e~~:~eJi!o:r:aro: :~:{i~i·········
107.00
R·
...................................................... 16.39
1al~o Lodge No. 582...................................................................... 98.39

!or

....._.......................................

TotaL..................................................................................._. .....$479.06
Yo~r com~ittee therefore offers the following resolution and. recommends its adoption:

221

Adopted.
Masonic Employment Service
The Board of Control has recommended to this committee that moneys
should be appropriated for the Employment Bureaus as follows:

i~~t ~r:;.~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ ~'.!~~:~~
~~~ ~fe~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i:~gg:gg

Long :Seach..............,.........................,...............:........................... 2,200.00
Sacramento .................................................................................... 1,000.00
Fresno ------.---------·····'.......................................,................................ 1,000.00

Total...........................................................~ ......................•...$15,400.00
Your committee concurs in the recommendation of the Board of Control and offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $15,400.00 be, and it is hereby appropriated
from the funds of Grand Lodge to be divided into donations to assist in
maintaining employment bureaus as above listed.

Adopted.
Correspondence Committee Report
The chairman of your Committee on Correspondence has prepared his
report for the past year, and it will be printed in the Grand Lodge proceedings.
The report of this Committee clearly reflects the painstaking efforts
which they have exerted in . reviewing the proceedings of Grand Lodges
throughout the world, and in preparing their report. We again call the
attention of the Masters of the Lodges of this jurisdiction to the wealth of
material which this report of your Correspondence Committee contains,
and we are of the opinion that at least one Lodge meeting a year could be
well spent in the reading and discussion of this report.
Grand Lodge has, for the .past several years, seen fit to appropriate the
sum of $500.00 for the purpose of reimbursing this committee for the expense incurred in compiling and preparing its report. We fully recognize
the good work which this committee is doing, and feel that this is just and
proper. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption: .
R11solved, that the sum of $550.00 be, and it is, hereby appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge, to be paid to the chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence· for the purpose of defraying the expenses of reviewing and
preparing their report for that committee.

Adopted.
Reports of Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed with care the reports of the
M:.
William P . Filmer, Grand Treasurer, and the V.".
John
Whicher, Grand Secretary. Both reports indicate the care given and the effi- .
ciency displayed by both of these esteemed brethren in the conduct of the
affairs of their respective offices and in handling the finances and records of
Grand Lodge. Both are to be commended for the ever-watchful care given
to the affairs of Masonry. The praise and appreciation of this committee is

w:.

w:.

222

: ,.PJlOCE'EDINGS OF THE·

•; ;

unbounded for the .W:<?f,lc :WGich these two worthy ofljcers are doing for
Grand Lodge.
·: ' ·~· ~ · "
·
, . "" · .
. As has already been ;eported in our report on ' the Al!dit of Accounts,
all items of receipts and disbursements have been properly accounted for
and all records are in perfect shape.
'
Yo~r. ~ommit_tee again calls the attention 0f Grand Lodge to the great
respons1b1hty which rests upon the shoulders ·bf· our Grand Treasurer in
caring for the funds and making the investments. for G~and Lodge and the
Endowment Fund, as well as for the five trust funds which h:ave been
create~ for th_e benefit of the Homes. The investments particularly require
~uch study and gre.at care, as well as extensive knowledge of securities and
mvestments. It also requires much caution in seeing that all funds and
investments of the various agencies are kept separate and the income
properly disbursed. The committee is unanimous in its conviction that our
G~and Treasurer is entitled to the warm ap1>reciation of every member of
this Grand .Lodge for the service he is rendering.
Our Grand Secretary is also entitled to much commendation for the
manner in which he hlls handled the affairs of his office during this trying
year, as, due to the loss of the former Assistant Grand Secretary, it has
been necessar! to train a new assistant in caring for the many details of
the office. This has placed a large additional responsibility upon this worthy
officer, and yet the affairs of the office have beert so· conducted that we
who ,have had business to transact, have scarcely been aware of the change'.
Our Grand Secretary, too, is entitled to our warmest commendation: .'

Adopted.
· , Traveling Expenses of Grand Master
Your committee has discussed with our present Grand Master what
allow~nce he considers woµld be an adequate amount to appropriate for the
trav~lmg expenses of our incoming Grand Master in caring for the duties
of his offi~e for the coming year. We learned from him and from other
::?~(c~s,. tha~ it is the 'hope of our incoming Grand Master to visit every
JUrtsdichotl m the State as well as to be present at whatever other functions
he can find time to attend.
It_ is to be noted 'that o~.r. present Grand Master has been able to acc~mphsh the v~ry extensive"visitations which he has made this past year
without expendmg the full ·amount of the appropriations made therefor
there still remaining uncalled for $250.00 of the amount. This part. of th~
appropriation has been left remaining in Grand Lodge funds. We compliment our M. W. Brother on this accomplishment.
The committee has in the past always commended the Grand Master
for his extensive visitations. It is firmly of the opinion that there is no
money ex~ende_d by Grand Lodge which is any more helpful in. maintaining
Masoi:iry m this State on a high plane than the sum expended for the
~raveh.ng expenses of our .Grand Masters. We are most hopeful that our
mcoming Grand ~a~te~ v-:111 find ·the time to fully fulfill his hopes to visit
every part of the Junsd1chon and to extensively meet the members of this
great Order.
yYe are, therefore, recommending, to cover these expenses for the
commg year, the same amount as was recommended last year that is
$4,50~.00. We, therefore, offer the follbwing resolution and reco~mend it~
adoption:
r1
Resolved, that the sum of $4,500.00 be approp~lated 'from the funds of
Grand Lodge for the traveling expenses of the Grand Master.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

223

Portrait of Grand Master
It has, for many years, been the pleasing custom of this Grand Lodge
to request the retiring Grand Master to have his portrait painted so that it
might be included in the gallery of portraits of Past Grand Masters, the
expense thereof to be paid out of Grand Lodge funds.
Your committee is sure that this communication of Grand Lodge will
wish to continue this pl~asing custom and have the portrait of our present
retiring Grand Master included in this gallery. Your committee therefore
recommends that our retiring Grand Master, the M:. W:. William B.
Ogden, have his portrait painted and present the bill therefor, in an amount
not to exceed $250.00, to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay
the same, and when the portrait is painted, to be hung in the gallery of
Past Grand Masters.

Adopted.
Portraits of Preceding Past Grand Masters
For several years now this committee has made the effort by calling
Grand Lodge's attention thereto and making the appropriation therefor,
to have our gallery of portraits completed by securing the portraits of all
living Past Grand Masters not in the gallery. It is pleasing to note that
Past Grand Master Mixter's portrait has been added to the gallery and
also that the M.'. W.'. Leon 0 . Whitsell has had his portrait painted.
There are, however, two living Past Grand Masters whose portraits
are not in the gallery, that of Past Grand Masters Warren and Miller. Your
committee would like to see these portraits added, and therefore again
repeats the request that these two worthy brothers have their portraits
painted, the bill therefor in an amount not to exceed $250.00 for each portrait, to be presented to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay
the same.

Adopted.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
This committee is pleased to report that all Grand Lodge dues from
the constituent Lodges for the current year have . been paid, with one
exception, the exception being Oceanside Lodge No. 381. Total dues from
this Lodge for the year are $207.85, on which amount they have paid $100.00
and expect to be able to remit the balance at a reasonably early date. It
seems that this Lodge has operated under some difficulties this past year,
due to the loss of both the Master and the Junior Warden. I~. would seem,
however, that the Lodge is doing reasonably well and that 'the commuriity
in which it is located is prosperous, and there is no reason to believe 'tliat
the Lodge will not continue to carry the banner of Masonry' high.
·
This committee is in accord in granting Oceanside Lodge further time
in the payment of its Grand Lodge dues, and therefore offers the following
resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That Oceanside Lodge No. 381 be given an additional ninety
days for the payment of the · remainder of $107.85 of its Grand Lodge dues
for the current year.

Adopted.
Unpaid Loans
The report for this committee for the year 1939 displayed that there
still remained unpaid on the loans which had been advanced by Grand
Lodge in p'revious years :for various purposes the following:

P~OCEEDINGS

224

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OF THE

Chowchilla Lodge No. 485......•..•............_......................$300.00
Drytown Lodge No. 174.~_.:..:....~······------·-------· .. --···-~----- 440.00
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59............::..........~......:....:~~.•:.. 400.00
It is particularly pleasing to this committee that Chowchilla Lodge
has been able to repay its loan in full, the repayment having been made
during this session. It is even more pleasing, however, to learn, as we did,
by discussion with the present Senior Warden, D. T. Secara, that the spirit
of this Lodge is now splendid and that they propose to continue to carry
the banner of Masonry even higher than it has ever been carried in this
community heretofore. They ate securing some new petitions, and the
finances of the Lodge are in good condition.
It is our wish to express our thanks to Brother Secara and to the ·members of the Lodge for this payment and for the new spirit which has been
developed.
In discussions with representatives of the last two named Lodges we
learned that there is little change in their positions. Both are old Lodges
with small memberships, and located in communities where little opportunity ·i~ presented for· securing new petitions. The committee, therefore,
feels that there is no particular criticism due either of. these Lodges for not
having been able to reduce their obligation on these loans. It is to be
noted, however, that it is their wish to eventually pay.
Your committee offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption :
Resolved, That the two above-named Lodges be given further time in
which to pay the amounts due from them to Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
Rearrangement of the Constitution
At our annual communication a year ago this committee commended
our good brother, Past Grand Master John Stewart Ross, for the monumental work he had done in the rearrangement of the Constitution and.
Ordinances of this Grand Lodge. At that time we called the attention of
Grand Lodge. to the very generous offer which Past Grand Master Ross
had made to donate to this Grand body not only his entire services, but
also the expenses which he had been put to in the preparation of this work,
and it was only with difficulty that the committee persuaded him to accept
pay for the expenses he was actually out.
At that time we we.re advised that $300.00 would approximately cover
these expenses, and that amount was appropriated. InfQrmation now comes
to us that in the additional work it was necessary to do in further editing
and preparing this work for publication that our esteemed Past Grand
Master went to a further expense of $536.00, for which sum we feel he
should be reimbursed. The work which he has done is of very great value
and has required a great deal of his personal time. We are unanimously
of the opinion that in addition to contributing his time he should not be
asked to personally pay for any expenses incurred. We therefore offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $536.00 be- appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge and be paid to Past Grand Master Ross to defray further
expenses incurred in the rearranging of the Constitution.
Adop~ed.

Reimbursement of Expenses of Inspectors
At the last annual communication of this Gr;i.nd body there appeared
before this committee a committee selected by the Inspectors for the pur-

225

pose of conveying to this committee a wish that the manner of returning
the expenses of Inspectors in performing their various official duti_es ~~ould
be changed and that, instead of t:eceiving their expenses from the md1v1dual
Lodges of their districts, that the same be paid by Grand Lodge.
This committee was in accord with the suggested change, but as it
was not possible to determine with any degree of accuracy the cost to
Grand Lodge that such a change would entail, and as such a change would
entail amendments to our Constitution and Ordinances, your Finance Committee in its report to Grand Lodge last year, recommended that the
Grand' Lecturer make a study of the problem and report at this session
his conclusions. You have already heard and ·approved his report.
The details furnished this committee by the Grand Lecturer of the
work being done and the expenses incurred by the Inspectors is most complete. We commend our Grand Lecturer and wish to ~xpress our appreciation to him for the manner in which he has done this work.
The estimate given by the Grand Lecturer for the total expenses of
all Inspectors of the jurisdiction is $2627.80. He has also called our attention to his inability to accurately measure all needs. We can fully appreciate the impossibility of accurately determining all contingencies.
The Grand Lecturer's recommendation was that $3000.00 should be
appropriated for these expenses.
It is particularly pleasing to this committee to note the great amount
of work which the Inspectors are doing, all of which entails some expense
to them, and that this work is being done for the pure joy of the services
rendered without the willingness to accept any return for any money out.
Eighty-t~o Inspectors have asked for no return. This is the spirit whi~h
has made Masonry, and which will always keep the banner of Masonry
high. It is our belief that the greatest satisfa.c tion derived in life is the unselfish rendering of service, and so it is particularly gratifying that this
seems to be the spirit which prevails among the entire corps of Inspectors
of this Grand 'jurisdiction. Masonry is indeed fortunate to have such a
body of men.
As was expressed in the report of the Finance Committee last year,
we are in entire accord with the reimbursement of the expenses of Inspectors by Grand Lodge, instead of by the individual Lodges. We are also of
the opinion, as also was formerly expressed, that the Grand Lecturer should
promulgate certain rules governing the reimbursement of these expenses,
such rules to first have the approval of the Grand Master.
We looked over the rules under which reimbursements were made
this. past year, and approve the tenor thereof, and are of the opinion that
the rules for further reimbursements should rather closely correspond to
the rules which were laid down this past year. We are also of the opinion
that the amount that is asked 'to be appropriated this coming year for the
purpose of ca,ring for these expenses, that is the sum of $3000.00, is reasonable. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resol~ed That the sum of $3000.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodg~ for the purpose of defraying expenses of Inspectors in performing their official duties, such repayment to be made upon bills duly
presented to the Grand Secretary, which said bills shall first be approved
by the (Jrand Lecturer.

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Trona Lodge, U. D.
, This committee has had under consideration that part of the report
of the Grand Secretary in which he recommends that the Grand Lodge
ciues for Trona Lodge, U. D., which are ordinarily payable, be remitted.
Your committee is in accord with the recommendation and therefore
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
·
Resolved, That Trona Lodge, U. D., be not charged any Grand Lodge
dues for the year just closing.

$1800.00 per .annum for the work done by these two Grand officers for

., 226

Adopted.
Swiss Relief
This committee has had under consideration that portion of the Grand
Master's address reporting the relief sent by him to our needy brethren
in the republic of Switzerland, which portion of his report has been referred
to this committee.
Your Finance Committee is not only in accord with the Grand Master's having sent $2000.00 for the relief of these needy brethren, but commends him for the promptitude displayed in answering this call of distress.
We also note that he recommends "that such further appropriation be
made as may be consistent with the state of the finances and of the calls
thereon, present and prospective." It appears to this committee that it is
not possible at this time to determine just what further needs our brethren
in Switzerland may have, nor is it possible to determine what calls there
may be upon Grand Lodge funds for relief purposes. It therefore seems
best that the determination of what further relief may be accorded should
be left to the discretion of our incoming Grand Master, and we so recommend.

Adopted.
Pay of Members
Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report indicating that the amount required to pay the traveling expenses of officers
and members attending this session of Grand Lodge amounts to the sum
of $17,501.30, and we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend that it be adopted:
Resolved, That the sum of $17,501.30 be appropriated to pay the traveling expenses of officers and members attending this session.

.Adopted.
Salaries
Your committee has given its usual consideration to the salaries of
your Grand Lodge officers. It is of the opinion that the salaries which
have been paid for these past several years should be continued, and therefore recommends that the salaries for this coming year be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary •..... ,........... .;........ :..... _ .......:""·····--,,,····$ 7,200.00
Grand Lecturer ............................................................
600.00
Assistant Grand Secretary ........................................ 3,600.00
Grand Tiler .................................................:..................
200.00
Grand Organist ............................................................
100.00
$11,700.00

For a number of years it has been the arrangement between this committee and the Trustees of the Masonic Homes that the salaries of the
Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary be paid from Grand Lodge
funds, and that the Homes reimburse Grand Lodge in the amount of

227

the Homes. Your committee therefore recommends that the salaries of
the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary be for their services
to the Masonic Homes as well as for their services to this Grand body, and
. that for such services the Masonic Homes reimburse this Grand Lodge
in the sum of $1800.00 per annum.
It is also recommended that the traveling expenses incurred by the
Grand Lecturer and the four Assistant Grand Lecturers in performing
their duties in the State of California, as well as the expenses incurred by
Grand Lodge officers or members of Grand Lodge who may be traveling by
authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore, from Grand Lodge
funds.

'Adopted.
Grand Lodge Per Capita
The Co~stitution provides for the levying of a per capita of fifty cents
to provide for the expenses of Grand Lodge and its various activities. In
addition to the sum provided for by this per capita levy, there is additional
revenue accruing to Grand Lodge from degrees conferred and income on
investments of approximately $20,000.00. There is also some other revenue
derived from the sale of supplies and from surety bonds covering Lodge
officers. This revenue, however, cannot be taken into consideration in the
budget because it. is offset by corresponding items of disbursement, which
are also eliminated from the budget.
The income derived from these sources is not sufficient · to pay the
operating expenses of Grand Lodge during this coming year, and to care for
the various appropriations being recommended in this report. For a number of years in the immediate past, the-expenses of Grand Lodge have exceeded its income, the deficits thereof being cared for out of surpluses
accumulated a number of years ago.
This committee has always taken the position that while there was
no particular need of increasing the surpluses which Grand Lodge had,
yet sufficient funds should be raised each year to -care for all reasonable
expenses. It is particularly pleasing to note that the budget which was
set up a year ago, together with the per capita levy which was made to
care for this budget, has resulted in a surplus for this ·particular year of
approximately $12,000.00, which surplus will help in replacing the deficits
which have been occurring for a number of years now.
This committee has always been mindful of the financial burden the
Lodges are .c arrying, and therefore, for some years, has been disposed to
provide only sufficient funds to be sure that no additional calls shall be
made upon the previously accrued surplus. In niaking our calculations for
this year we are still mindful of this burden. Due, however, to the fact
that the $12,000.00 surplus of this year was largely due to a decrease in
the calls for outside assistance, and that such demands are very uncertain
to determine, and are, in the minds of this committee, likely to increase
this coming year, we have decided to recommend to Grand Lodge the same
per capita levy as last year, that is $1.65. The levy is made up as follows:'
Gran9 Lodge Constitutional requirement... ................... :.$0.50
Masonic .Homes Constitutional requirement.................. .SO
Masonic Homes Maintenance special levy.................... .40
Grand Lodge activities ...................................................... .25

~otaL.:.:

...:.,.:.......................:.....

~ '.$.t.65

:i... : .................... ..

The report of the Trustees of the Homes asked for, in addition to the

228

PROC~EDINGS

OF THE

constitutional requirement, a per capita levy ~f forty cents. This committee concurs in the request, and in that part of its report' dealing with
the Trustees of the Homes presents a resolution providing for this levy
of forty cents, which resolution has already been approved by you, and
therefore no additional resolution at this time is necessary.
It is, however, necessary to present a resolution to provide for the
levy of twenty-five cents for Grand Lodge activities. This committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That a per capita levy of twenty-five cents be levied for the
payme~t of Grand Lodge expenses and for its various Masonic activities.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements
Salaries ...............................•...:........·............•............:........•.$ 11,800.00
Printing ................................................................................
5,500.00
Traveling expense, Grand Lecturer and assistants ....
1,000.00
Office rent.........................................................;............•.......
4,500.00
Postage ................................................................................
500.00
Audit ......................................................................................
150.00
Telephone and telegraph ..................................................
300.00
Grand Master's relief............................:............................. . 3,000.00
Board of Control....................................................:.;...........
300.00
Public Schools Week..........................................................
600.00
Fifty Year buttons ..............................•........- ..............•......
400.00
Portraits of Grand Master and P. G. M.'s..............:.....
750.00
Salary Grand Lecturer ......................................................
600.00
Outside relief....................................:...................................
6,000.00
Social Security taxes ..........................................................
175.00
Expense Grand Treasurer..........................:.....................
600.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................................
4,000.00
Traveling expense, inspectors.......................................... 3,000.00
Pay of Members................................................- ................ 17,500.00
Reimbursement Boards of Relief....................................
480.00
Employment Boards .........................................................• 15,400.00

4,500.00
15,000.00
6,000.00
2,500.00
500.00
250.00
300.00 $105,605.00

Traveling expense, Grand Master..................................
Masonic Clubhouses.......................................... :....•..•.........
Endowment Board........................,...........·-···-·····:····-······
Grand Lodge Week Activities ........................................
Correspondence Committee..............................................
History Committee ............................................................
Education Committee.................:.... r . . .. ..... . ......... ........ . . . . ..
Estimated surplus........................................

$

5,395.00

Respectfully and Fraternally Submitted,

s.

Subsequently and after the adoption of the resolution for the
purchase of 25,00CI shares of the capital stock of the Masonic
Temple Association, the report of the committee was reconsidered
and the per capita tax for Grand Lodge Activities was fixed at
fifteen cents, making the total tax $1.55. The report of the committee, as amended, was then adopted.
Budget
The receipts and disbursements for the past fiscal year, as displayed
by the report of our Grand Secretary, have corresponded very closely with
the amount set up in the budget adopted at the last communication. It is
particularly pleasing to this committee to note the effort which is being
made by the various agencies of Grand Lodge which are expending funds,
to adhere as closely to the budget as possible. It is only by such a practice
that we can hope to keep our budget balanced.
Following is the estimate of receipts and disbursements for the coming
year:
Income
Dues, etc. from Lodges ..................,...................................$100,SOO.OO
Interest and dividends ...................:.................................... 10,500.00 $111,000.00

229

ARTHUR
CRITES
FRANK
RUPPEL
CLAUDE H. MORRISON
ALTER
BERGER
ROLLIE
MILLER
ALVA
AYERSMAN
EuGENE T. FRICKSTAD

c.

w

L.

w.

J.

Committee

The entire report was then adopted.

SALE OF MASONIC TEMPLE STOCK
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance has for some time had under consideration
the investment which Grand Lodge has in the capital stock of the Masonic
Temple Association of California, Inc., this being the corporation which
owns the building in which we are now meeting. It believes this holding
to be excessive and, with respect to income, disproportionate to other investments of Grand Lodge. Looking forward to liquidation of some of this
stock, your committee has discussed the matter with the management of
the Temple Association with the result that the Temple Association, having the necessary funds available, will entertain a proposal to buy not
exceeding 25,000 shares at a price not over $4.00 per share.
The ~orporate control of the Temple Association would be retained by
Grand Lodge, the total outstanding stock after retirement of the 25,000
shares being 65,854, with Grand Lodge holding 33,985, or 51.6%.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge be hereby
authorized to offer up to and not exceeding 25,000 shares of the capital
stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc. owned by Grand
Lodge at a price not less than $4.00 per share.
'
ARTHUR S. CRITES

c.

FRANK
RUPPEL
CLAUDE H. MORRISON
WALTER L. BERGER
ROLLIE W. MILLER
ALVA
AYERSMAN
EUGENE T. FRICKSTAD

J.

Committee

The report was adopted.

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON OBSERVANCE OF
CONSTITUTION DAY
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
At the suggestion of a group of Past Grand Ma11ters, Grand Master
Ogden appointed a committee to promote the observance of Constitution
Day by the Lodges of this jurisdiction; such observance to occur at the
most convenient time during the month of September. Unfortunately, the
subject was not presented to the attention of the Grand Master until about
a month before the normal time for observance, making it impossible to
accomplish the results which would have followed a longer time in which
to lay the foundation.
Notwithstanding the limited time available, an extended panel of able
speakers was provided; one panel for the northern portion of the jurisdiction and the other for the southern portion, 'thereby facilitating convenience
for arrangements, and minimizing expense for transportation.
We regret that the committee overlooked requesting specific reports
from all Lodges but sufficient illformation has reached both the Grand
Master and the committee to demonstrate that the suggestion was well
received. · It is also a tribute to the public spirit of our organization that
with very few exceptions brethren who were requested to speak expressed
their willingness to coop'erate; the exceptions being due to special conditions which made participation impractical.
While the meetings were held under the direct sponsorship of the
Lodges, your committee urged that so far as possible the meetings be
open to the public, with the purpose of disseminating as widely as possible
in every community, respect for, and the necessity for perpetuating, those
free American institutions which are declared in the Constitution of the
United States.
Clippings which have reached• the Grand Master demonstrate that
newspaper publicity was freely available and in some instances notices were
inserted in the general advertising columns .. Without derogation of meetings held in other localities and under varying conditions, the ·.interest of
the Craft was demonstrated at one meeting in Southern California, at
which there was · an attendance of over 4,000.
With world conditions whic;h require no emphasis, with institutions
guaranteed by the Constitution which represent an outpost of civilization,
and with the necessity for consecration and sacrifice for their perpetuation,
your committee is of the opinion that no greater work can be continued by
Grand Lodge than to stress the importance of constitutional guarantees
of liberty and the part which may be played by every American citizen in
maintaining them, not only for ourselves and our children, but for generations yet unborn. We therefore recommend:
1. That the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee to continue during the coming year the work of the present committee;
2. That the committee be promptly appointed in order that a proper
foundation may be laid for its work and that there be a proper dissemination of information throughout the jurisdiction;
3. That the committee for the coming year emphasize the importance
of public meetings, but that these meetings be held under the direct supervision of our Masonic Lodges. While efforts have been made in Public
Schools' Week to leave Masonic initiative in the background, we believe that
in this instance the Masonic organization may with propriety and without

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2:n

imputation of partisan politics, place itself squarely in the foreground of
measures for the defense and perpetuation of constitutional liberty;
4. That an adequate panel of suitable speakers be provided, available
through channels to be indicated, for Lodges which desire that service.
5. That the dignity of the occasion be emphasized by cooperation
where possible among Lodges in districts and localities, rather than limited
·observance by an individual Lodge without cooperation.
In conclusion, your committee suggests for consideration by Grand
Lodge, that constitutional liberty and democratic ideals are the most important issue confronting our country and our civilization, and that if
Masons discharge the' responsibility which we are capable of assuming, we
may contribute substantially to the welfare of the world and achieve results which will compare favorably with those which have followed the
efforts of Grand Lodge to emphasize the importance of our public schools.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD
RANDOLPH V. WHITING
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
LEE T. MULLEN

Committee

Report adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California.:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as
follows:
The several irregular clandestine organizations which we have .previously reported as operating in California are still continuing their activities. One however, reported upon last year as being a Masonic organization, Brother Alpers finds on further research not to be such but to have
simply pursued the practice of the various Chinese organizations of using
· the Square and Compass and designation of a "Masonic" body. "The
Chinese Grand Lodge of the World," mentioned in our last report is not in
any respect Masonic.
·
Negro Masonry
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge Ancient Free and Accepted Prince
Hall Masons, formerly known as the Worshipful Sovereign Grand Lodge
of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, held its 86th Grand Communication
in Portland, Oregon, July 15th to 20th, 1940. Roscoe H. Broyles of 1545
Seventh Street, Santa Monica, presided as the Grand Master and he was
reelected to that office. Raymond Hunter, 1421 Stanislaus Street, Fresno,
was elected Senior Grand Warden; S. 0. Sheffield, 49 Kearny Street,
Fresno, was elected Grand Trustee. There are still 36 subordinate Lodges.
A specially enthusiastic Communication was held in Portland. Special
trains were used and drill teams and marching contingents made the trip
to Portland.
·
During the Communication a meeting of the Grand Chapter of the
Eastern Star, Negro, held its sessions, and we are informed was well
attended.

232

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

King Solomon Lodge No. 6 of Fresno held an Installation of Officers
December 20, 1939. Raymond Hunter, Senior Grand Warden, and Douglas
Houston, a Past Grand Master, conducted the ceremonies. S. 0. Sheffield
was installed as Worshipful Master; Richard McClanahan, Senior Warden;
William Peyton, Junior Warden; I. N. Pitts, Treasurer; Raymond Hunter, Secretary; Nathan Joseph, Senior Deacon; William Kennedy, Junior
Deacon; Reverend A. W. Hubbard, Chaplain; Douglas Houston, Tiler; William Burns, Marshal; G. P. Peyton, Senior Steward.
In Riverside, California, the subordinate Lodge "Orange Valley" conducted an initiation ceremony, and over 100 Past Masters from many
western states participated in conferring the third degree upon a group of
candidates.
Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge
This Grand Lodge held its 30th Annual Communication from July 15th
to 19th in Pasadena, California. C. B. Terrance of 1358 East 42nd Place,
Los Angeles was reelected Grand Master. G. A. Betry of 930 B Street,
Fresno was elected Deputy Grand Master; J. T. Faireley of Fresno, Junior
Grand Warden; M. A. Alexander of Fresno, Senior Grand Steward; John
Cannon, Grand Treasurer; S. C. Hannibal of 1561 E Street, Fresno, District Deputy Master; and S. L. Hannibal, Grand Trustee.
We are advised that this Grand Lodge is revamping its ritual and
expects to go back to certain original forms and customs, especially in the
third degree.
The Grand Lodge is attempting to establish several new Lodges in
the San Joaquin Valley and in Stockton, California.
A new subordinate Lodge called "Mount Calvary No. 17" was ·organized in 1939 in Santa Monica. Its Master is Henry Harris of 1818%
18th Street, Santa Monica. It started with many members and requires an
initiation fee of $15.00.
We are informed that another .new Lodge is being organized in
Berkeley.

*

*

*

*

*

Up to July, 1939 a movement was afoot to consolidate the two Negro
Grand Lodges. This movement was fostered by the then officiating group
,oi Grand Officers in both Grand Lodges.
During the Grand Communications of 1939 the officiating Grand Officers were ousted and new Grand Officers elected who appear to have put
a quietus upon the consolidation efforts. There is considerable rivalry
between the two Negro Grand Bodies and there will probably be no
fraternizatfon for some time to come.
Filipino Grand Lodges
Cavalleros De Dimas A1ang-Brother Fred Spring.•·of our Committee
reports that this Filipino Grand Body has an insurance· phase to its activities. He was able to secure a blank report of medical examination of Gomez
Lodge No. 12 meeting in Sacramento. This Grand Lodge is maintaining
steady activity throughout the State, and we have previously given a list
of subordinate Lodges.
Gran Oriente Filipino-This Filipino Grand Lodge is reported to be
qliite active in Sacramento. Manila Lodge No. 28 of that Rite meets in
Odd Fellows Temple and during 1938 it met seven times, in 1939, fifteen
times, and so far this year eleven times.

233

Brother Orio A. Pratt of our Committee reports that the Filipino
Lodge "Mactan" of this Rite, meeting in Calexico, maintained a steady
activity throughout the past year.
The Sovereign Grand Lodge of the Philippine Archipe1ago:--This Grand
Body has previously been reported as active in California and it now
probably carries the greatest activity among the irregular Philippine bodies
in this State. It seems, however, that a split has occurred in the State
Grand organization. Some three Lodges, Nilad, Neptune, and Solomon,
appear to have revolted against the Grand Lodge under the leadership of
one Aquilino Monsod who was formerly the Grand Delegate of the parent
Grand Lodge in Manila. Monsod is retaining the same name as the larger
irregular Grand Lodge and seems to be conducting quite a racket. He is
selling diplomas up to the 32nd degree for 5.00 and we are informed that
he personally demands a fee of $5.00 for attendance upon the meetings of
subordinate Lodges. Monsod is a janitor in a Pasadena shoe store.
The main body of subordinate Lodges unqer this Sovereign Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Archipelago is led by one Avelino Requeja Villanueva who was deputized on December 9, 1939 by the Manila Grand Body
as the Grand Master for California.
This original main body of the Philippine Archipelago Grand Lodge
informs its . subordinate Lodges that it is a member of the International
Masonic Association of Geneva, Switzerland. The truth however appears
to be that it applied for membership in the I. M. A. but was not accepted.
Mr. Villanueva claims the 33rd degree of Masonry, and he is Master of the
Lodge Jerusalem No. 39 of Berkeley. This Lodge publishes a periodical
known as "Jerusalem Bulletin" several times a year, and it has the appearance of the work of an informed and intelligent element in the Lodge.
We are informed that a new Lodge under this jurisdiction is to be
formed shortly at Long Beach, and another one at Stockton, and a third
one is under way at Reno, Nevada.
On Sunday, April 7, 1940 a new Lodge under this Filipino Grand
Jurisdiction· with the name of "Rising Sun" was instituted at West Los
Angeles, California, in the Sawtelle Masonic Temple. Lodge Master is
Brother Segundo S. Dayrit, who claims the 32nd Degree and whose address
is· 10743 Lindbrook Drive, Westwood Village, Los Angeles. We are informed that there were representatives present from more than fifteen
Lodges from many jurisdictions. The ceremonies were conducted at the
Masonic Temple in Sawtelle and among the guests we are told were alleged
Masons from the jurisdictions of Mexico, Chile, Colombia, Denmark, the
Philippines, Germany, and Br;;tzil. After the installation ceremonies the
first degree of Freemasonry was conferred upon two candidates.
Brother Fred P. Roullard qf our Committee reports that during March,
1940 a Filipino named Julio T. Aquilano died in the Sart Luis Obispo Tubercular Hospital. He was a member of Jerusalem Lodge No. 38 of Berkeley
under the Philippine Archipelago Grand Lodge. The undertaker, a Junior
Warden of King David's Lodge, San Luis Obispo, found upon the body
eight typewritten sheets which are apparently the candidate's lecture of
the first and second degrees minus the obligation. Aquilano's friends requested King David's Lodge for a Masonic funeral but this of course had
to be denied,· but a church service was conducted at the funeral.
Rito Naciona1
There appears to be a revival of interest in the Mexican Grand Lodge
Rito Nacional, which had been split by a schism developing in Mexico City.
However we find subordinate Lodge "Cosmos No. 15" of San Pedro which

234

l'IWCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

had been dormant for several years has again. become active under the
Mastership of Zevero Z. Aguirre of 1203 L Street, Wilmington. It was
revived in a ceremonial conducted by Jose R. Lopez, Deputy Grand Master for California in July, 1940.
A bulletin of 20 pages named "Crouos" is published monthly by the
Lodges of this Rite under the editorship of Jose R. Lopez, Deputy Grand
Master for California. ·
A new Lodge under the "Benemerito" Rito Nacional has been organized under the name of "Lux e Tenebris No. 117." It meets at 1674 East
102nd Street, Watts, in Patriotic Hall. Master is Juventino Nunez who
claims the 18th Degree. The mailing address of this Lodge is 104112 Graham Avenue, Watts.

Mexico, Central and South America, and have thus gained a certain amount
of international recognition. According to the "Plaridel Bulletin,'' a journal
published by Plaridel Lodge No. 30 of Los Angeles, that Lodge has fraternal relations with no less than 750 foreign Lodges.
WM. A. ScHREIDER
JOHN ALPERS
FRED P. RouLLARD
R.' W. BURLINGAME

Committee

Report adopted.

.

.

At 12i:l0 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 o'clock
this afternoon.

Mexican Grand Lodge of Texas
This Grand Lodge previously reported as sustaining considerable prosperity in Texas and having developed a number of subordinate Lodges in
California is now rapidly · disintegrating in this State at least. We learn
that fourteen of its subordinate Lodges severed relations with the Texas
Grand Body and have affiliated with a Grand Lodge of New York State
called the Gran Logia de la Lengua Espanola de Nueva York.

..
,.

Spanish Language Grand Lodge of the State of New York
Gran Logia de la Lengua Espanola de N ueva York
The subordinate Lodge ".Quo Vadis No. 1" working under this Grand
Lodge is now active and it meets at 1201 East First Street, Los Angeles on
the second and fourth Wednesdays of each. month. This Lodge Quo Vadis
absorbed a Lodge known as "Libano No. 31," which we last reported as
working under the Grand Lodge of the Federal District of Mexico, Scottish
Rite (clandestine) . The Master of Quo Vadis is Santiago G;i.rza, residing
at 4222 Dozier Street, Los Angeles. 'fhis Lodge has several professional
men and four or five ministers of the gospel among its membership. We
understand that the Cali'fornia Deputy of the clandestine New York Grand
Lodge is General Jose Maria Tapia, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
"Valle de Mexico."
Gran Logia Independiente del Territorio Norte de la Baja California
Last year there came information to the Committee that this Grand
Lodge, operating in the northern district of Lower California with headquarters at Tia Juana, had chartered a Lodge in Los Angeles called "Cinco
de Febrero No. 5" and meeting at 213 South Ford Boulevard, Los Angeles.
This independent Grand Lodge was a schismatic Grand Body which had
separated from the regular Masonic Grand Lodge of the Northern Territoty of Lower California. It has now adjusted its differences with the
regular Masonic Body and . its subordinate Lodges. The Lodge "Cinco de .
Febrero" surrendered its charter and is now non-existent. Some of its
members joined the Lodge Quo Vadis No. 1, noticed above, and others
joined the Lodge Ignacio Zaragoza of Tia Juana.
The Lodge Plaridel No. 30 of Los Angeles and Lodge Jerusalem No. 38
of Berkeley have. made a number of visits to the Lodges in ·Mexico under
the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of the Northern Ter:ritory of Lower
California. Most of the Mexican Grand Lodges entertain fraternal relations
with the Sovereign Grand Lodge of the Philippine ·Archipelago.
Among all Latin American Lodges the custom prevails of exchanging
r.e presentatives. By this custom many clandestine Grand and subordinate
Lodges in California have exchanged representatives with Lodges in

235

.

-~

... ..

'j /

·,,
,

--

... ,

.~

.,
• ~; .i :.:. "

.'
,,
', .

. ..

')

~: :

236

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jfn ~ranb I.obge

or forego the privilege. We are of the opinion that these Lodges will serve
a Jong-felt want in their respective communities, and that they will draw
their future membership from areas which are sufficient, both in population
and resources, to justify the belief that they will enjoy a natural and normal growth. Likewise, we are of the opinion that the personnel of officers
and members of the petitioning Lodges is of that high standard which
merits your favorable consideration.
Your committee, therefore, recommends: That the dispensation of
Trona Lodge be extended to the next Annual Communication of this Grand
Lodge.
That Charters be issued to Barstow Lodge No. 682, Barstow, San
Bernardino County~ and to Redwood Empire Lodge No. 683, Garberville,
Humboldt County.

AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday, October 10, 1940.
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
·
·

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters submits for your consideration the following report:
Since the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge, three
Lodges have been working under dispensation, namely :
Barstow Lodge, Barstow, San .Bernardino County. Dispensation issued
Oct. 1, 1939, by Grand Master Leon 0 . Whitsell.
Redwood Empire Lodge, Garberville, Humboldt County. Dispensation
issued March 26,1940, by Grand Master William B. Ogden.
Trona Lodge, Trona, San BernardinQ, County. Dispensation issued
Sept. 10, 1940, by Grand Master William B. Ogden.
Your committee has examined the records and files of Trona Lodge as
compiled during the brief period of operation under dispensation and we
find the same to be in order and they are approved as submitted. The members of this Lodge do not seek a charter at this communication. They do
ask, however, that their dispensation be continued until the next Annual
Communication, thus affording them ample opportunity to demonstrate
their worth as a Masonic Lodge.
We look with favor upon the request for an extension of the dispensation, and we wish for the group that measure of success which their zeal
and enterprise so fully deserve.
Your committee has had under consideration the r espective petitions
for charters of Barstow Lodge and Redwood Empire Lodge. The period
of the actual operation of these two Lodges has, in each instance, been of
sufficient duration to enable the members of your committee to form an
opinion upon which to base our recommendation.
We have interviewed representatives from the two Lodges and Brother
Ralph Logsden, Inspector, to whom we are indebted for much helpful information concerning the Barstow group. We are pleased to report that all
records submitted are in order and we commend those who are responsible
for the careful observance of our constitutional requirements.
These two Lodges are not only clear of debt, but the financial report
of each reflects a substantial bank balance. Following the established policy
of your committee, satisfactory assurances were obtained from the respective representatives that there will be no assumption of financial obligations
inconsistent with current resources of these Lodges.
The members of your committee are firmly convinced that a Masonic
Lodge, like the public school and the church, is an invaluable asset to any
community in promoting civic, educational, moral and r eligious w elfare and
development. Particularly does this hold true in those small communities
like Barstow and Garberville where there are no Masonic Lodges and
where those who would hold Masonic communication with their brethren ·
must, of necessity, measure their zeal for the fraternity in miles of travel,

2'J'1

LEET. MULLEN
HENRY ErssLER
LEON
GLENDENNING
WALTER F. BURBANK
W . W. CHEGWIDDEN
A. PAULSEN

c.

c.

The report was adopted and charters ordered issued m accordance therewith.

REPORT OF ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE

w:.

To the M:.
Grand Lodge of California:
· Your Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities respectfully reports
as follows:
The committee is charged with the duty of making suitable arrangements for the entertainment of the members of Grand Lodge during the
Annual Communication. The experience of all deliberative bodies is that
better results are 'obtained when work is interspersed with recreation and
entertainment, and to that end we have endeavored to provide the entertainment in keeping with the dignity of the Craft. Once again nature
favored us, and San Francisco, so beautifully described by our own poet
laureate, George Sterling, "The cool, gray city of love," gave its sunniest
skies to aid in the program that had been arranged.
· Your committee has kept close to the liberal allotment of funds made by
this Grand Lodge for the purpose, and has tried to diversify its program
so that something was provided which would meet the demands of every
one of the members and the ladies accompanying them.
A committee report at this time is without practical effect and the
verdict as to whether or not it has succeeded in its efforts rests in the
opinions that you have formed. We especially thank the many brethren of
the Craft not members of this Grand Lodge who have assiste~ in the
efforts of the week. With zeal and enthusiasm they gave of their time, and
if there was any success, a great part of the reward should be theirs.
ARTH UR JOEL
T H OMAS A NDERSON
A NDREW BURKE
MATTHEW MORTON
RUSSELL C. HORSTMANN
HAROLD D. DIEKEN
W ILLIA¥
ANDERSON

c.

Report adopted.

Committee

238

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on· Policy and General Purposes herewith submits
its reports and recommendations with respect to the various matters _contained in the annual message of the Grand Master and the resolutions introduced into this Grand Lodge, which have been referred to it for consideration by Grand Lodge:
Proposed Amendments to go Over One Year
At the last communication of Grand Lodge, Past Grand Master Adams
presented a resolution, which· is unfinished business of this communication.
The resolution was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence ando the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes and reads as follows:
"Resolved; That unless otherwise ordered by unanimous consent,
every resolution proposing to amend the Constitution, Regulations,
or the Uniform Code of By-Laws, shall be presented in writing at a
regular annual communication, and be immediately referred to the
appropriate committee, which shall report thereon in writing at the next
annual communication; and that the proposed resolution shall appear
in full in the printed Proceedings of the communication at which it was
presented."
As a matter 'of policy, your committee is of th~ opinion that amendments to the Constitution, or Ordinances, excepting in cases of emergency,
might well be postponed for a period of one year before adopting or rejecting the same. During this period of time a careful examination and a
full discussion could be had. Matters of importance are presented to Grand
Lodge, and, because of the shortness of the session, and the volume of
business to be considered and transacted, it is not always possible to give
a subject matter the careful consideration to which it is entitled. It is true
that our Constitution and Ordinances are so well seasoned that few important changes are necessary or desirable and that action on many of
the resolutions presented at an annual communication may properly be
1ms.tpciried {or a reasonable time.
. sl:i.o.uld the resolution be adopted, the legislation should be ex!ilicit
in its terms, so that amendments and alterations in the original prqp'osar
would not operate to continue the matter for a further ye.ar, and so that·
exceptional matters of an emergency nature should not be postpon.e d. 'because of a: negligible number of dissenters.
· <"i
We recqmmend that the resolution be adopted as a ·matter 6£ p~iicy
and referre'd to the Jurisprudence Committee for the preparation of appropriate legislation to be presented to this Grand Lodge for its adoption by
a five-siXths vote, or its rejection by a vote of more than on'e:s.ixth'. ~:· •·

Report adopted and referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.
· Authorit:y: ·of In11pectors to Withhold Certificates
The Grand Master recommended that an Inspector have authority
to withhold the certificate of qualification of a Warden or Senior Deacon
when, in the judg1;m;nt of th.e. Inspector, the holding of outside offices by ·
such Warden or Senior Deacon may seem to the Inspector to be in con- .
flict with the duties of the office in the Lodge.
Your committee i·s in full sympathy with the thought of the Grand ·
Master that officers .often undertake to perform more duties and fulfill .

239

more obligations than their time and circumstances will permit. He doubtless is of the opinion that no man should accept a high office in his Lodge
unless he is fully able to properly perform his duties.
Notwithstanding all this, however, it would appear that the Lodge,
rather than the Inspector, should be the judge of the question of whether
or not an officer will have the time to properly perform his duties in the
Lodge. An .obligation devolves upon the elected Warden, or appointed
Senior Deacon, to determine this question conscientiously at or before the
time of his election or appointment. Your committee does not feel that
an arbitrary power so far-reaching, and that might be productive of such
sad results, as that proposed to be given to an Inspector should be taken
from the Lodge and the officer concerned.
We therefore respectfully recommend that the recommendation of
the Grand Master be not adopted.

Adopted.
Notice of Membership
The Grand Master recommended that appropriate legislation be adopted
by this Grand Lodge authorizing secretaries of Lodges to issue certificates
that a named person is or is not a member of such Lodge and that for the
purpose of such certificate only a suspended member be treated as no
longer a member of the Lodge.
The Grand Master supports his recommendation with a strong argument in favor of the legislation and your committee is of the opinion that
the secretary of a Lodge should be permitted to make a statement to a
proper officer of any organization, the prerequisite for membership therein
being that a man be a Master Mason, concerning the standing of any Mason
· who is a member both of his Lodge and of such organization.
We therefore recommend that the policy above outlined be adopted by
Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
:i:,ife Membership Funds
The Grand Master in his message directs our attention to a source
of difficulty for many Lodges in the matter of the investment of life membership funds. He calls our attention to the fact that in many cases the
amount of money in the life membership fund permits of no diversification in its investment and, because of the small amount of the fund, that
the usual avenue of investment is in savings bank accounts, returning a
maximum of 2% per annum. For the foregoing reasons he recommends
that some committee of Grand Lodge, or a committee to be established
by Grand Lodge, be intrusted with the duty of investing all life member"ship funds that may be entrusted to the Grand Lodge by the constituent
Lodges; and further recommends that all of said funds be placed in a
common pool to be invested from time to time by the committee, and the
income apportioned among the Lodges contributing in proper proportions.
He further suggests that a possible alternative for this fund might be the
inclusion of federally insured building and loan association certificates in the
class of securities permitted for investment.
Your committee is cognizant of the difficulties existing in many Lodges
in the management of the life membership funds, but is not satisfied that
the Grand Lodge should take over the task of investment and accounting
with respect thereto. When a Lodge passes a resolution setting up a life
membership fund it should do so with a clear understanding of the advantages and disadvantages of such a fund; and with a reasonable belief

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that the fund will attain a magnitude which will enable the Lodge to handle the same to its benefit. It seems to us that it is unwise for a Lodge
to set up a life membership fund for the purpose of providing a life membership for one or more popular members. This is equivalent to remitting the member's dues for the remainder of his life through the medium
of such a fund, and with small consideration. If there is no expectancy that
the fund will attain reasonable proportions, then it should not be established. Moreover, in considering life membership funds the Lodge should
understand that over the near period such a fund would be a burden on
the Lodge, and that only over the long period could it be advantageous.
Investments prudently made cannot be made to yield a return commensurate with the amount of dues lost by the Lodge, but, because the fund
remains the property of the Lodge in perpetuity, in the course of time, by .
reason of the death of life members, the Lodge will receive a continuing
benefit.
In the case of life membership funds in small amounts the investments
of necessity will yield a meager interest, and at the same time be subject
to the usual investment hazards. Even if the fund was turned over to a
Grand Lodge committee for investment it would still yield a low return,
and in addition to that a responsibility which rightfully belongs to the
Lodge would be evaded without a commensurate benefit.
The alternative suggested by the Grand Master meets with the approval of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes. At the annual
communication of 1939 it was proposed to amend Sections 87 and 129 of
the Constitution by adding thereto the following language: " ... and certificates and/ or shares in state chartered institutions to the extent of such
institution's insurance for its deposits in the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation."
Your committee reported adversely on the proposed amendment, giving as one of the reasons for its recommendation that the legislation did
not give an investment status to certain associations, and that action by·
the legislature rather than by this Grand Lodge should be taken. Under·
the present status of the law, the certificates of federal building and loan
associations are legal investments for savings banks and are a legal medium for the investment of life membership funds, but the certificates of
state associations, while legal investments for trustees, are not qualified
by the legislature as legal investments for savings banks. This is an anomolous situation because many of the state associations have the full coverage·
of federal insurance and in addition to 1such coverage have a capital invest- .
ment which .provides additional security to the holder of the certificates.
After a more careful study of the matter, your committee is of the ·
opinion that Lodges should be permitted to invest their life membership
funds, if they see fit so to do, in certificates of building and loan associations organized under the laws of the State of California which are insured
by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. There seems
to be no difference in the safety factor between well managed state asso-.
ciations and well managed federal associations if the insurance protection.
is the same in each case.
Your committee recommends that no committee of this Grand Lodge
be intrusted with the duty of investing the life membership funds held by
the constituent Lodges; and it further recommends that Section 152 of the
Ordinances ·of this Grand Lodge be amended by adding the words "or
trustees" following the word "banks" and preceding the semicolon in the
first sentence of said section.

The report of the committee was adopted, referred to the:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

241

Committee on Jurisprudence, which committee approved the recommendation, and thereupon Section 152 of the Ordinances was
amended by unanimous vote.
Duties of Secretaries
The Grand Secretary has introduced a resolution that Subdivision 9th
of Section 202 of the Ordinances be amended to read as follows:
Resolved, That Subdivision 9th of Section 202 of the Ordinances be
amended to read as follows:
9th: To report to the Grand Secretary, immediately after their occurrence, all rejections for the degrees, expulsions, suspensions and restorations, in the forms provided therefor.
The Constitution and Ross Digest of 1940 contains the matter of said
resolution, and it is appropriate and desirable for Grand Lodge at this
time to adopt the foregoing language of Subdivision 9th of Section 202.
Your committee respectfully recommends that the same be adopted
as a matter of policy and referred to. the Committee on Jurisprudence as to
its form.

The Jurisprudence Committee having given its approval, the
report was adopted and Subdivision 9 of Section 202 of the Ordinances was thereupon amended by unanimous vote.
Repeal of Fee for Dispensation
Thurman A. Baldwin of Hemet Lodge No. 615, Clarence F. Neuman
of Riverside Lodge No. 635, Raymond P. Kirby of San Gorgonio Lodge
No. 668, Hardus Sorkness of San Jacinto Lodge No. 338, and Oakley R.
Morton and William 0. Mackey of Evergreen Lodge No. 259, have presented a resolution to repeal Subsection 5 of Section 97 of the Ordinances.
Article 7 of the Ordinances provides for the source of revenue of Grand
Lodge and designates certain fees to be charged by Grand Lodge. Subsection 5 of Section 97 provides a fee of $10.00 for a dispensation to receive
and act upon the applications for degrees of a person belonging to the army
or navy of the United States who may not possess the qualification of
residence. The proposers of the repeal of said Subsection 5 direct our attention to the fact that March Field, a United States army aviation post,
is locatecj in the vicinity of the Lodges represented by the proposers, and
that there are officers and men temporarily stationed there who are prospective petitioners for the degrees of Masonry. They further represent
that the $10.00 charge for dispensation falls not upon the petitioner but
upon the Lodge, and that under the circumstances of today it would be
helpful and · beneficial to the Lodges and not detrimental to Grand Lodge
if the dispensation fee should be abrogated.
Your committee is of the opinion that in the face of war preparations
on a large scale and a possibility of a state of hostilities it would be neither
unwise nor unjust to eliminate for the time of emergency the fee now provided for dispensations to receive petitions from men wearing the uniform
of our country who may be stationed in California, and therefore respectfully recommend that Subsection 5 of Section 97 of Article 7 of the Ordinances be repealed.

The Jurisprudence Committee concurring in the report, Subdivision 5 or Section 97 of the Ordinances was repealed by unani;..
mous vote.

242

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE.

Who May Apply for Relief
Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, by resolution, proposes
that Section 263 of the Ordinances be repealed. Section 261 of the Ordinances provides the duties of a Lodge in respect to relief, while Section
263 provides who is entitled to ask for relief. Section 261 fully covers the
subject matter so far as concerns the Lodge, and in addition thereto provides that a Master Mason, his widow or orphan has the right to ask relief
from any Master Mason able to bestow the same. Elsewhere in Masonry
this subject is properly covered and therefore Section 263 of the Ordinances
deals with surplusage, and your committee respeetfully recommends that
the same be repealed.
· .

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which committee approved the resolution as to form, and thereupon Section
263 of the Ordinances was ·repealed by unanimous vote.
Masonic Home Fee for Affiliates
Brother C. E. Mallachowitz, Past Master of Caledonia Lodge No. 486,
proposes that the Masonic Home fee for out-of-state affiliates be not
charged.
At the last annual communication our brother introduced the same
resolution and with respect thereto we reported as follows:
"Your committee is of the opinion that no persuasive reasons appear
for the abrogation of the Masonic Home fee, charged either for the degrees or for affiliation. It is possible that there are cases where the Masonic Home fee deters a Mason from affiliating with a California Lodge,
but such cases cannot be numerous. Our Homes are so important and the
Masonic work we do there is so beneficial. to our elderly people and to
our orphan children that there would be few indeed who would hesitate to
rpake a contribution to the noble cause of the Homes upon becoming a
member in this jurisdiction and, as such member, having rights as well as
duties with respect to the Homes."
Your committee recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

Report adopted.
War Relief
The Grand Master in his message reported to Grand Lodge his action in transmitting $2000.00 for the use of Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina in
ministering to the needs of European brethren who had fled to Switzerland and who .a re in need, and he recommended that such further appropriation be made as may be consistent with the state of our finances and
other costs thereon, present and prospective.
As a matter of policy your committee is of the opinion that the Grand
Master should relieve distress among our Masonic brethren so far as he
can consistently do .so and he has full powers to take such action.

Adopted.
Roster of ¥embers to be Furnished

Resolved, That the Grand Secretary be instructed to furnish to each
Lodge forms to be filled out to furnish his office with a complete list of
members as of July 31, 1940; such list to be forwarded to the Grand Secretary's office as early as possible in 1941.

The report and resolution were adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

243

Masonic Publications
In his annual message to Grand Lodge, under the heading "Recommendations," the Grand Master devotes paragraphs ·4. and 5 to a discussion of problems arising in connection with "Masonic" magazines and
periodicals, and submits three recommendations. The first of these is as
follows:
That no paper, periodical, magazine or publication using the words
"Masonic," "Freemasonry," "Hira~," or any word implying a connection with/reemasons or Freemasonry, be permitted to publish the portrait, car or statement of any candidate for political office, whether
partisan or non-partisan, or of any political party, without printing immediately above or below the same, in a type not smaller than the smallest type used thereon, the words: "Paid political advertisement. Not
intended as an expression of opinions of this magazine or of Freemasonry."
The second recommendation is in the following language:
That legislation"be adopted to the end that whenever .facts presented
to the Grand Master prove to his satisfaction that any such paper, periodical, magazine or publication of any kind, or its . editors, managers,
agents or ·employees, have engaged in any unethical, fraudulent, misfoa<ling or questionable acts or pra'ctices, that the Grand Master be authori:i;ed to' place arr foterdiction upon such publication, and immediately
notify all Lodges and Masons in this jurisdiction by a communication to
be read at- the next stated meeting in each Lodge, to cease and desist
from giving any aid or support of any kind to such offender.
The . third proposal is. as' follows:
That the foregojrtg· .rec.o mmendation be considered by Grand Lodge
at its annual commuhic'a tion in the year 1941, and that the incoming
Grand Master be reqtiested to appoint a committee of three whose duty
it shall be to consider 'said recommendation, and kindred and associated
matters, in the broadest sense relating to the subject of "Masonic" nublications, and that said. committee be ordered to report their findings
therec;m. to the Grand Master not later than August 1, 1941, and .that the
Grand Master be requested to include said report in the advance information to be furnished the Lodges of this jurisdiction.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
foregoing recommendations and has reviewed,.insofar as time would permit,
the recommendations of foregoing Grand Masters, and the experience that
has accumulated in connection with so-called "Masonic" periodicals. In
this connection the problems prese1:1ted are not somple. For instance, in
reference to the first recommendafio·n, your committee does · not believe,
inasmuch as Grand Lodge .does not recognize these "Masonic" magazines
that we are presently in a position to permit or refuse permission with respect to the manner in which these magazines handle advertisements. We
cannot regulate what we do not recognize. We believe the Grand Master,
through informal means, can in most instances induce those in charge of
"Masonic" magazines to cooperate at ·least to a reasonable extent .
The committee concurs in the second recommendation calling for the
enactment of appropriate legislation to the end that due authority may
exist for a substantial measure of control, even to the point of interdiction
in cases where flagrant abuses are observed.
The underlying requirement in this matter is a thoroughgoing study
of the entire subject ap.d, in the light of such study, the proposal .o f spepific legislation, as the Grand Master has wisely suggested.
·
Your committee therefore recommends that no action on the first
<ind second recommendations , !,le take.n at this time, but that the third recommendation calling for the ;appomtment of a committee to make a tho-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

244

rough study and investigation and to propose legislation for consideration
at the annual communication of 1941, be approved.

and find that in all respects he has complied with the 'law, and we recommend their approval.

Adopted.

Report adopted.
Militant Masonry
Under the heading "A Militant Masonry" the Grand Master mentions
an undercurrent of feeling among the Craft that Masonry as an organization should be more militant, and correctly, we think, points out the importance of maintaining our traditional declination to introduce controversial matters in our Lodges. He quotes a letter written by him to a brother
who desired to appear before Lodges. showing a film and delivering an
address upon the Townsend Plan, which, of course, falls clearly within
the range of controversial matters.

In concluding thi~ section of his message, the Grand Master says:
"It must be remembered that we have within our membership men
of every race, sect and opinion, and nothing should be said or done in
a Masonic meeting that would be found offensive or embarrassing to
the least among us."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes desires to record its
approval of the policy and position expressed by the Grand Master.

Report approved.
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,
ALBERT
BOYNTON'
WILL H. FISCHER,
FRANK
MIXTER,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,
GoRDON S. TEMPLAR,
GEORGE D. HORN,

E.

w.

Committee.

REP9RT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
Consolidation of Lodges
To the M:.

245

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The Committee on Jurisprudence has reviewed the proceedings
of Golden City Lodge No. 553 and Educator Lodge No. 554, for consolidation. under the name and number of Educator Lodge No. 554, and find
them 111 proper. form. We recommend that the consolidation be approved;
that the consolidated Lodge be hereafter known and designated as Educator Lodge No. 554, and that the charter of Golden City Lodge No. 553
be surrendered and delivered to the Grand Secretary.
·

Report adopted.
Decisions
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
d.e~isions reported by t~e Grand Master and are of the opinion that de-

c1s1ons Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, 1, and 8 are in strict accordance with our law and
should be appro'ved.
Y c:iur committee has also considered the · various dispensations issued
by the Grand Master and the life membership resolutions approved by him,

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Decision No. 2, contained in the Grand Master's message, and repor~ thereon as follows:
Section 82 (now 214 of the Ordinances) provides that two or more
Lodges located within the corporate limits of any city, town or place, shall
have concurrent jurisdiction therein and none of them shall confer the
degrees for a smaller sum than fifty dollars without the consent of all.
Section 82a (now · 218 of. the Ordinances) provides that any person
residing within ten miles of the Lodgeroom of a Lodge may present his
petition to such Lodge, regardless of the fact that he may reside within
the normal jurisdiction of another Lodge.
The Grand Master decided that a Lodge located within ten miles of a
city in which two Lodges. had concurrent jurisdiction, as above specified,
could not receive applications for degrees from persons residing within
the limits of such city without charging the minimum fee of fifty dollars.
Section 82a has been considered before. In 1927 the Grand Master
decided that the purpose of the section was not to enlarge the jurisdiction
of Lodges in every respect, but solely in regard to the reception of a petition for degrees, and its provisions should be limited to that matter alone,
which decision was approved by Grand Lodge.
The decision of the Grand Master, now under consideration, would
have the effect of extending the scope of Section 82 beyond its expressed
terms, which provides only for concurrent jurisdiction within corporate
limits of cities.
It is our opinion that in enacting Section 82a it was not the intention
of Grand Lodge to enlarge the application of Section 82 beyond extending its territorial limits for residential qualification of applicants.
While it may be that the . law should be so amended as to cover such
a situation as here presented, we consider that a matter for future legislation if investigation shall disclose that any amendment be advisable.
We therefore recommend that Decision No. 2 of the Grand Master
be not approved.

The report was adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration decision No. 9 of the M.'. W:. Grand Master, as set forth in his message, and
report as follows:
The action of the Lodge, the Inspector, and the Master, and the resulting ruling of the Grand Master, are concisely stated in the decision
under consideration. This ruling calls for the approval of the Grand Lodge
without hesitancy.
The conferring of the degrees of Masonry on one whose physical disqualification was so evident, was done in the face not only of the law of
the Fraternity, but also of admonitions heretofore given by Grand Lodge
in terms so strong that a failure to heed them demands drastic action
against those who close their eyes to the law and the admonitions. In the
present case, the Lodge may deem itself fortunate that a reprimand only
was meted out to it as its punishment in permitting this violation to have
oc.curred.
Grand Lodge has declared in no uncertain terms that an applicant
maimed as was the applicant here admitted, is ineligible to be made a Mason,

247

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and a reference to the rulings made by Grand Masters of late years, which
rulings were approved by Grand Lodge, and which are set out in the Ross
Digest, 3rd edition, on pages 409 to 414, inclusive, should have removed
all question or doubt as to eligibility of this candidate.
The effect of the order of the Grand Master as it applies to the Master
of the Lodge : was to suspend him from the exercise of his powers and
duties until this communication. In view of the fact that the order was
niade some months ago, that the Master has practically borne the burden
of the punishment for himself and the members of the Lodge, and that he
and the members fully realize the grave error committed by them, we feel
that nothing further will be gained by a continuation of the suspension,
and that the same can now be terminated without in any way minimizing
the gravity of the offense committed.
We therefore recommend that the action of the M:. w:. Grand Master be sustained in every respect, apd that the suspension of the Master
be now terminat.ed.

Reference is made to the report of the Special Taxation Committee rendered at the ninetieth annual communication of Grand Lodge (p. 515).

246

Adopted. ·.
The Committee on Jurisprudence also reported relative to
the resolution introduced by Past Grand Master Adams, recrommending that the said resolution be referred to its successors,
and be reported at the next annual communication of Grand
Lodge.
·
DANA R. WELLER,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,
JoHN STEWART Ross, ·
GEORGE L. ]ONES,
ALVIN
WENDT,
EARL
ARREN'
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,

w.

w

Committee

The report was adopted.

MASONIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Russell C. Horstmann, in behalf of the Masters and Wardens
of the Lodges comprising the . East Bay Masonic Employment
Service, presented a resolution providing for the printing and
distribution of a series of pamphlets explaining the work of
the Masonic employment service to all members of the Lodges
throughout the jurisdiction.
Consideration of the proposition was deferred until the next
annual communication.

REPORT OF SPECIAL TAXATION COMMITTEE
To the M:. W:. Graiid Lodge of California:
Your committee is a continuation of the Special Taxation Committee
originally appointed in November, 1938, by M:. w:. Leon O .. Whitsell,
pursuant to a resolution of the 89th annual communication of Grand Lodg.e.

Members of the committee are:
Henry C. Clausen, chairman, Ingleside Lodge No. 630;
James E. Hammond, Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568;
R. P. Wisecarver, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478.
Your committee has actively functioned in accordance with a resolu- ·
tion by the said ninetieth annual communication of Grand Lodge.
Numerous meetings have been held. Correspondence has been exchanged with subordinate Lodges. Several interim reports have been rendered, one of which was printed and distributed to the subordinate Lodges.
In proper cases your committee has counselled with subordinate Lodges
and advised applications for refunds in matters affecting their tax problems. Interviews and conferences have been held with Grand Lodge officials. Communications were exchanged with the M:. w:. Joseph Earl
Perry of Massachusetts, chairman of the Grand Masters' Committee on
Social Security Taxes, and with counsel for said committee. The law and
regulations and prospective legislation appertaining to tax problems affecting the Masonic Fraternity have been studied.
The problems of taxation with which your ~ommittee wrestled involved
not only payments of money but also an attendant heavy clerical burden
on the secretaries. Tax legislation has become increasingly complex. There
is a great deal of confusion with respect to these tax problems. We have
not had the benefit of any clear-cut court decisions to follow as a guide.
In 1939 it was thought that a main cause of complaint had been clari- •
fied. But more recent developments have added to the uncertainty and
confusion.
We refer particularly to the re<:ent rulings on the Social Security Act,
as amended. It should be remembered that the original Titles VIII and
IX of the Social Security Act, relating to "old age" and "unemployment"
taxes, have been repealed and re-enacted as Subchapters A and C of the
Internal Revenue Code. Each division has also been amended. The effect
of these amendments has created an _important additional test for exemption as to .Masonic "employees." On this subject one amendment removes
the age limit of 65 years. Another exempts all employees whose remuneration in any calender quarter does not exceed $45.00. Also, one amendment we feel was intended to put into the statute the exemption of ritualistic officers regardless of the amount of their compensation.
Lodges have received letters from their local Federal Tax Collectors,
advising that before their exemption as to old age or unemployment ·taxes
can be determined, it will be necessary for them or their Grand Lodge to
make a formal application for exemption.
This committee, therefore, has caused an application to be made by
the Grand Lodge on behalf of itself and the subordinate Lodges for exemption from federal income tax as a basis for the establishment of exemptions under the Social Security Act. It was the opinion of your committee
that this application should be filed first by the Grand Lodge, rather than
by the subordinate Lodges, so we would not be working at cross purposes.
In the interests of uniformity, clarity and complete presentation of the
facts, this committee has also worked in unison and kept in close toU<;h
with the said Committee of Grand Masters.
The recent developments and present confosing status of. these tax
questions may be stated briefly as follows : The Committee of Grand Masters appeared before the Commissioner of Internal Revenue at Washington,

248

PROCEEDINGS OF TR.I!;
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

D. C., and contended that the Masonic Fraternity came within certain exclusions of the Social Security Act, and that therefore the Fraternity was
wholly exempt. But on July 1, and July 10, 1940, opinions were rendered
by the C?mmissioner to the contrary. Stripped of their technical language,
these rulmgs declare that the Masonic Fraternity is a "fraternal beneficiary
society" which is exempt from income tax, but is not wholly exempt from
the Social Security Act. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue also issued
orders that officers of a Masonic Lodge and even members of committees
should be considered as employees for the purpose of counting employee~
under the said act. This latter conclusion is based on a contention of the
Commissioner that a portion at least of the Lodge activities of these members consists of administrative work.
. !his latter ruling is inconsistent with previous rulings by the Comm1ss10ner of Internal Revenue and by the California Commissioner with
respect to similar taxes. As stated in our 1939 report, the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue ruled that unpaid ritualistic officers were not to be
counted as employees and that incidental administrative duties should be
disregarded. Pursuant to this ruling the California Commissioner held that
unpaid officers were not to be counted as employees. This automatically
exempted most of our Lodges. Refunds of taxes improperly paid were
consequently ordered and made.
·
Your committee has pioneered the contention and concurs with the
Grand Masters Committee in urging that any such recent and contrary
rulings by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue are incorrect; and must
per.force be based upon a mistake of fact as to the nature of our organization.
In our 1939 report to Grand Lodge, we also advised the desirability
of determining these questions by a test case. · It now appears that the
Committee of Grand Masters has reached the same conclusion and has
instituted such a case. It is the recommendation of your committee, therefore, that we now await that decision rather than institute a case ourselves.
From our review of the desirable jurisdictions in which to bring such a
case, it also appears that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts where the
stated test case is being prosecuted, will be a good forum for ~uch a purpose because the Supreme Court of that commonwealth . has at various
times favorably defined the nature of the Masonic Fraternity as a matter
of law.
·
In light of the foregoing, our present recommendation to the subordinate California Lodges as to the taxes assessed upon the grounds we dispute, is to pay those taxes under protest. A claim for refund should then
be fil~d. After filing, ho':'ever, this claim should not be pressed. Thereby,
a period of two years will be available in which an authoritative decision
by a court of competent jurisdiction should be rendered.
. . ~t is our ~op~ that Washington will co-operate in seeking a speedy
Jud1c1al determmat1on of these questions. Your committee intends making
such su.ggestions of fact or law as it feels will be helpful in sustaining the
conclus10ns we have reached and which are in harmony with the contentions of the Grand Masters Committee.
It should be borne in mind that the Commissioner recognizes that under the Social Security Act there are certain instances wherein the Lodges
and their employees may be exempt as matters now stand. For example,
as hereinbefore stated, there· is a provision now in force exempting those
employees. whose remuneration does not exceed $45 per quarter if employed by an organization that is exempt from the payment of an income
tax under Section 101 (3) of the Internal Revenue Code, provided that such

~49

service is in connection with the coflection of dues and is performed away
from the home office, or is ritualistic service.
Recently, several amendments have been proposed to the Social Security Act with respect to the foregoing questions. It is the intention of
your committee to study these amendments and make suggestions to the
Committee of Grand Masters pursuant to a request made by the chairman of that committee in a letter dated September 3, 1940.
Tax laws are being changed annually and rulings and interpretations
are being made continually by the departments in charge of tax collections.
As to these questions, therefore, your committee can serve as a clearing
house and central point of study and information for Grand Lodge and subordinate Lodges.
We, therefore, recommend for your approval:
(1) That this committee be continued.
(2) That a copy of this report be sent each subordinate Lodge
for its information.
Respectfully submitted,
R. P, WISECARVER

J. E. HAMMOND
HENRY

c. CLAUSEN
Committee

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
Special Taxation Committee
The Committee on Special Taxation has made a report to this Grand
Lodge wherein it recommended that the committee be continued for the
period of the coming Grand Lodge year and that a copy of its report be
sent to each subordinate Lodge for its information.
Your committee is advised of the confusion and difficulties facing the
subordinate Lodges with respect to the law and the rulings of the Internal
Revenue Bureau on the subject of Social Security taxes, as related to old
age and unemployment benefits. It is a matter of common knowledge that
the rulings of the Bureau of necessity are being changed from time to time.
We are also advised that other Masonic bodies throughout the United
States are interesting themselves in the matter of these laws and that it is
desirable for all of us that a serious effort be made to secure a clarification
and a uniformity in the tax laws affecting fr·aternal beneficiary societies. To
properly safeguard the interests of this Grand Lodge and its subordinates,
it is definitely beneficial to have the Special Committee remain on guard
and to keep itself advised of the efforts of others and the trends in legislation and rules affecting the taxation of Masonic Lodges.
For the foregoing reasons your committee recommends that the Committee on Special Taxation be continued and that pertinent imformative
matters in said report ~ubmitted at this annual communication be sent to
subordinate Lodges for their information.

Adopted.
At 4 :15 P . M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00 o'clock
Friday morning.

250

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3Jn ~ranb .JLobgt
MORNING SESSION
Friday, October 11, 1940.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.
REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1940:
Receipts
Oct. 1, 1939, balance on hand (cash and securities).................... $165,225.89
From rentals ........,.................................................- ......- .... -~$46,136.75
From interest, savings banks..............................................
36.75
From interest and dividends.............................................. 7,955.35
From premium, sale of securities......................................
710.93
From sale old equipment...................................................
85.00
From checks not cashed......................................................
1.65
54,926.43
$220,152.32

Disbursements
Taxes, real estate..................................................................$ 8,208.64
Taxes, old age benefit..........................................................
289.04
Taxes, unemployment..........................................................
577.22
Expense .................................................................................. 5,367.11
Improvements ...................................................................... 2,122.81
Salaries ........................................................................- .......... 11,220.36
Insurance ................................................................................
210.19
Dividends .. ~...., ••.-.................................................................. 9,204.40
Bills }:r.l~le............................................................................
200.00
Purchase of own stock........................................,_.,............ 9,717.00

47,116.77

Sept. 30, 1940, balance cash and securities........................................ $173,035.55
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc.,
WM. P. FILMER, President
FRANK C. RUPPEL, Secretary

The report was approved.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the M.'. W.' . Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Credentials reports that the following members
of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled to participate in its deliberations:

251

Mileage allowed
Name of Lodge No. of Lodge
Representatives
California........................... No. L ...... Curtis M: Redfern, Master
James Hurst, Sr. Warden
Harvey E. Teller, Past Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master .
D. E. F. Easton, Past Master
Harold W. Cookson, Past Master
Max J. Mertens, Past Master
Western Star•.,.....-...........No. 2 ........ Hugh A. Shuffleton, Sr. Warden ........ 19.30
Jesse W. Carter, Past Master
Tehama.............................. No. 3........ Charles C. Reeves, Master.................. 5.40
·
Arthur D. Savage, Sr. Warden
George H . Haddy, Jr. Warden
Charles A. Schwartz, P. M. & Insp ... 5.40
Benicia................................No. 5........ Chester W. Arnold, Sr. Warden...... 2.10
Tuolumne..........................No. 8..,..... Joseph F. Allyn, Sr. Warden.............. 8.80
Corinthian..........................No. 9........ Wilfred J. Rainville, Master................ 7.50
Marion E. Underhill, Sr. Warden
James W. Robinson, P. M. & Insp ... 7.50
San Jose ........."..~..................No. 10...... Lionel J. Worden, Master.................... 2.90
John W. Fair, Sr. Warden
Frank E. Short, Jr. Warden
Joseph S. Greenley, P. M. & Insp..... 2.90
John H . McGehee, Past Master
Yount..........................,.......No. 12...... John W. Ricketts, Master.................... 2.90
Jam es H. Fisher,. Sr. Warden
John J. Arnitz, Past Master
Nevada....................:...........No. 13...... Raymond V. Worthley, Sr. Warden 15.60
Joseph F. Stenger, Past Master
Temple...................., ...........No. 14......Warren D. More, Jr., Master.............. 2.70
Allen K. McGrath, Sr. Warden
Eureka................................ No. 15...... Lathrop'S. Huntley, Master................ 7.60
La Parfaite Union............No. 17...... Prosper A. Sainges, Sr. Warden ·
A. L. Auradou, P . M. and Inspector
Henry Mottet, Past Master
Michel E. Diebold, Past Master
Andre P . Girerd, Past Master
Mountain Shade............... No. 18...... Fred T. Rixey, Master........................20.62
San Joaqqin ....................... No. 19...... Walter C. Champreux, Master........ 5.10
Virgil C. Cassilis, Sr. Warden
Washington ............,.......... No. 20...... Clyde H. Blackburn, Master.............. 5.40
·
Hubert E. Geisreiter, Jr. Warden
Walter L. Dosch, Past Master
Herman T . Silvius Jr., Past Master
Emanuel Hendricksen, Past Master
Joseph J. Ralph, Past Master
Hawaiian............................ No. 21...... Clarence Wm. Trexler, Sr. Warden 250.00
Occidental..........................No. 22...... Karl Jos. Jacob, Master
Webster C. Norton, Sr. Warden
Wm. Egbert Boughton, Jr. Warden
Rudolph Mohr Jr., P. M. & Insp.
Harold A. C. Mitchell, Past Master
Alden Ames, Grand Sword Bearer
Ralph Marshall, Grand Tiler "

252

PROCEEDINGS 'OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Madison..,.......................... No. 23 ......John W . Martin, Master.................... 15.30
Kenneth L. Hodgkin, Sr. Warden
John T. Jones, P. M. & lnspector...... 15.30
Joe T. Moran, Past Master
Geo. L. Jones, Past Grand Master.... 15.60
Mariposa.........................._No. 24...... Jos. Jenkins, Sr. Warden ..................22.80
Fred C. Alexander, P. M. & lnsp.....27.10
James P . McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown....................... N o. 25 ......J ohn F. Carrick, Master...................... 9.60
El Dorado.......................... No. 26......John P. Simpson, Master.................... 8.90
Frederick Dorman, Sr. Warden
Ellsworth A. Williard, Jr. Warden
Harry L. Jaspar, P. M . & Insp......... 8.90
Trinity................................ No. 27...... Hurston S. Buck, Master..:...............23.30
C. A. Paulsen, Past Master.................. 23.30
Golden Gate.~.................... No. 30......A. Sulby Kelly, Master
Edward A. Didier, Sr. Warden
A. F . Heuer, Past Master
Ed. C. C. Wellesley, Past Master
Gold Hi!L......................... No. 32...... Not Represented
Ophir.................................. No. 33......John T. Morley, Past Master
San Diego...........................No. 35...... Laurence 0. Culp, Sr. Warden........43.38
J. B. McLees, P. M. & lnspector......43.38
Claude H. Morrison, Past Master......43.38
Joseph U. Shell, P. M., Sr. Gr. Stwd.43.38
Howard........:..................... No. 37...... Robert M. Martin, Sr. Warden ........28.10
Robert H. DeWitt, Past Master
George S. Ward, P . M. & lnspector..28.10
Santa Cruz.......,..............,.. No. 38...... Fred H . Schlichting, Master.............. 4.70
Clayton H . Wright, Sr. Warden
Henry Kaiser, Past Master ·
Roy L. Mayfield, Past Master
Fred B. Montell, Past Master
Willet Ware, Past Master
Sacra~nto ....,................... No. 40...... Robert E . Walsh, Sr. Warden ........ 5.40
Mark S. Edson, Jr. Warden
Charles Madison Smith, Past Master
Frank Tade, Past Master
M~rtine.z.., ........................... No. 41 ......Jack F . Sivers, Master........................ 2.10
Ernest R. Lasell, Sr. Warden
Stephen F . Ball, Jr. Warden
Louis Mittelman, P. M . & Inspector 2.30
Los Angeles ...................... No. 42...... Chas. M. Albert, Master ....................34.70
Edward Hyman, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Asst. Gr. Lec..... 34.70
Hiram..................................No. 43 ...... William F . T~uscott, Master............ 8.40
Mount Moriah ...................No. 44...... Edwin E . Keough, Sr. Warden
Leonard F . Taylor, Jr. Warden
D. B. Richards, Past Master
Roy A. Pratt, Past Master
Crescent.............- .............. No. 45......Thomas R. Weldon, Master ..............27.70
Texas.................................. No. 46...... A. F. Carlsen, Sr. Warden .................. 6.10
Forbestown ....................... No. 50...... Bernhard Goeken, Master.................. 16.20
J. A. Vaughn, Past Master
Illinoistown ....................... No. 51.. .... Geo. E. Pipes, Past Master

Suisun................................. No. 55 ......Elmer E. Burrell, Master.................... 3.00
Edgar G. Long, Sr. Warden
Harry Nelson, P. M. & Inspector.... 3.90
Volcano........................... ~ .. No. 56......J am es Giannini, Representative........ 8.40
Santa Rosa......................... No. 57...... Richard W. Robinson, Master............ 3.30
Edward T. Koford, Sr. Warden
Robert A. Miller, Jr. Warden
Karl F. Stolting, P. M . & Inspector.. 3.30
R. S. Leggett, Past Master
James T. Mailer, Past Master
Union..................................No. 58......Wayne M. Tilden, Master.................. 5.40
Leighton D . Armstrong, Sr. Warden
Ernest L. Dryden, Jr. Warden
Howard S. Mcintire, Past Master
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel R a nge .................... No. 59...... Myron Pauly, Master..........................16.60
Plumas...............................No. 60...... 0rval A. Myers, P. M. & Ins pector 19.28
Live Oak............................ No. 61.. .... Carl J. Maclntire, Master
Reginald M. Mills, Sr. Warden
Edwin G. Henderson, Jr: Warden
Clarence A. Severin, P . M . & Insp.
Charles E . Haven, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Grand Master
Natoma...............................No. 64...... Clarence C. Gillespie, Master............ 6.60
Amador.............•....- ......._No. 65 ...... Howard N. Smith, Master.................. 8.40
Forest.........•................•...... No. 66......John H. Colman, Master ....................16.60
Morning Star.....................No. 68......Andrew J. Cates, Master...................... 5.10
Paul LaTeer, Sr. . Warden
Harry W. Bessac, P . M. & Inspector 5.40
Enterprise..........................No. 70...... 0tis Van Meter Sweetland, J . W ..... 7.30
Hugh D . Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain ..................No. 76...... August P. Nelson, Past Master
Calaveras ............................No. 78...... George E. Dietz, Master...................• 6.60
Humboldt.......................... No. 79...:..Willard W. Burlev, Sr. W arden ........22.40
George B. Still, Past Master
Jas. T. Fraser, Past Grand Master..22.40
Ione...:................................. No. 80...... Percy Buckley, Sr. Warden .............:.. 8.10
J. Wesley Sibole, P. M. & Inspector 6.10
Yolo................:..'................. No. 81......John D. Woodard, Past Master
Vesper................................ No. 84......John H. Hill, Master........................... .16.20
Naval... ................................No. 87...... Ralph A. Neely, Master...................... 2.00
Joseph A. Johns, Sr. Warden
Ralph T . Edington, Jr. W arden
Ernest E . Fugler, P ast Master
Philip S. Creeden, Past Master
Fred D . Samuels, Past Master
David R. Doherty, Past Master
Joseph C. Harrison, Past M aster
David Jeffers, Past Master
Joseph Anderson, Past M aster
Rose's Bar........................:.No. 89...... Herbert L. Hite, Master...................... 8.50
North Star......................... No. 91.. .... Edward Goodwin, P . M . & Rep .......32.10
St. Helena.......................... No. 93......Joseph E . Battuello, Master .............. 6.40
John Wichels, Past Master
Henry Clay;......................No. 95...... Christopher Obradovich, Past Master
Hornitos............................. N.o . 98...... Charles G. Barnell, Master................16.70

253

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Y1:1semite ............................ N o. 99 ...... 0wen L. -Craghead, Master ................ 12.60
Peter Rahilly Jr., Sr. Warden
True W. Fowler, Past Master
Clay~.............. _:....:......••.... No. 101....William H. Herbeck, Master ............ 14.20
Hans Halderson, Sr. Warden
.
Oroville.............•................N o. 103 .... Albert C. Grubbs, Sr. Warden .......... 9.10
Albert E. Boynton, Past Grand Master
Lexmgton: ..................... :... N o. 104.... Albert M. Boyer, Master.................... 35.60
Otto H. Jons, Sr. Warden
Areata ...........••....................N o. 106.... Lester C. Sundquist, Sr. Warden .... 23.90
Pajaro....•.....•..............:....... N o. 110.... Howard Chas. Jennings, Master ...... 6.00
. Lester D. McGowan, Sr. Warden
W. H. Davis, P. M. & Inspector........ 6.00
Chito...................................N o, 111....Harold Oliver Ellis, Sr. Warden ..... .10.20
Summit ...............................N o. 112.... George H. Grobe, P. M. & Rep ....... 9.00
Eden................................. _.N o. 113 .... Sidney B. Force, P. M. & Rep.
Concord ................. ;............ N o. 117.... Henry Edgar Ott, Master ................c. 5.40
Martin Chas. Davis, Sr. Warden
Anton L. Johnson, Past Master
Fid_eli ty .;.'............ :...•....•.... :.No. 120.... Seth A. Klinger, Master
Harold F. Klinger, Sr. Warden
Lloyd M. Bloom, Jr. Warden
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Phillipp Jacobovics, Past Master
Benjamin Armer, Past Master
Edgar C. Levey, Past Master
Abraham Jacobs, Past Master
Milton J. Sapiro, Past Master
Leo J. Simon, Past Master
Leon M. Loewenthal, Past Master
Robert J. Himmelstern, Past Master
A~a.JnO .....: ........................... N o. 122 ... :Vernon R. Parsons, Master ................ 4.10
Walter A. Ridgway, Sr. Warden
Charles G. Faisst, Past Master
~ohiyonte ............ ,..........,... N o. 123 .... Not Represented
Table. Mountain ................ No. 124.... Roy Clark Uhl, Sr. Warden .............. 12.20
Samuel A. Vandegrift, Past Master
La Fayette ....•................~ .•. N'o. 126.... Arthur N. Starr, Sr. Warden ............ 4.00
Ernest A. Feaks, Past Master
Charles H. King, Past Master
Hermann .............·............... N o. 127 .... Albert Matthes, Master
Louis Muller, Past Master
Emil Neumarkel, Past Master
John.Behrens, P. M. & Inspector
Vi$alia ...... ;;;; ...................... No. 128.... James B. Lawson, Master .................. 18.50
Nicolaus ............................. N o. 129 .... James Ed. Hudson, Sr. Warden ...... 7.50
Woodbridge ..................... ,N o. 131.. .. Brenus C. Kenyon, Master ................ 5.60
Winfield Scott Montgomery, Sr. W.
Sincerity ....•...•.....•...........••. No. 132.... W. J. Hall, · Representative..................29.52
Vacaville ............................. N o. 134.... Not Represented
Valley ................................. No. 135 .... Ralph M. Foote, P. M. & Inspector 6.10
J. M. Corson, Past Master
Walter Freeman,. Representative

Pacific .................................N.o. 136.... J oseph Eh ling, Master
Allen J. Rosenberg, Sr. Warden
Henry A. Emmrich, Jr. Warden
Thos. Anderson, P. M. & Inspector
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Charles E. Jackson, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Alexander Schwartz, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Crockett............................. No. 139.... Neal A. Cleveland, Master
E. J. Kleinhans, Sr. Warden
Ralph L. Mallett, Jr. Warden
W. A. H. Fleischer, P. M. & Inspector
Z. R. Callaham, Past Master
D. A. Stivers, Past Master
C. L. Wehe, Past Master
H. J. Gaevert, Past Master
W. H. Mason; Past Master
J. W. Davies, Past Master
W. Kahn, Past Master
P. Jorgensen, Past Master
Curtis ....................... ,.~ ........ N o. 140 .... N ot Represented
Grafton ...............................No. 141.. .. Fred Leiser, Representative .............. 5.80
Franklin ..............•.............. No. 143 .... Frank Ed. Judy, Master ...................... 6.40
OrlentaL ........................... No. 144.... Frederick W. Cross, Master
W. S. Davis, Sr. Warden
R. E. Shupe, Jr. Warden
Alfred J. Snow, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
William E. Conner, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master
William S. Wells, Past Master
Carl V. Zachrissen, Past Master
Roy N. Buell, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
Charles T. Clark, Past Master
Richard H. Hartje, Past Master
Wm. E. McHugh, Past Master
Delbert L. Berry, Past Master
Charles R. Brown, Past Master
Frank C. Martin, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
Edwin Hansen, Past Master
Walter Leonard, Grand Lecturer
Vitruvius .... :........... ,...........No. 145 .... H. K. Kristensen, Past Master
AbelL............................•... No. 146.... Not Represented
Eel River ...:............ .'...........No. 147.... Melvin John Reese, Master................ 21.30
Walter G. Orman, P. M. & Insp .......20.70
Lassen ............................... :.No. 149.... F. L. Hill, Master ................................23.12
Molino ................................ No. 150.... Cornelius G. Mathews, Sr. Warden 11.30
Woodland ...·................ ,...... No. 156.... 0tto G. Niemann, Master .................. 5.20
Ernest H. Zebal, Sr. Warden
George L. Stivers, P. M. & Insp ..... 5.20
Keystone ............................ No .. 161 .... J .. F. Helms, Past Master
Harmony......••..•.........•.......No. ·-164.... Victor I. Hallock, Master ....................21.52
Ernest M. Innes, Past Master

254

255

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Excelsior......,..................... N o. 166.... Herbert F. Hellwig, Master
Bert T. Baker, Sr. Warden
William B. Rixon, Jr. Warden
James W. Crosby, Past Master
. Samuel H. Perkins, Past Master
Charles Albert Adams,
Past Grand Master
Alameda............................. No. 167.... Harold Houghton, Master.................. 2.00
Fred Montell, Sr. Warden
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
Redwood City'·-·-····-·-······No. 168....Julius M. Edling, Master.................... 1.60
William A. Keller, Sr. Warden
Raymond G. Kelly, Jr. Warden
C. G. Lambert, Past Master
Lawrence H. Heiner. Past Master
Mission .............................. No. 169.... Fredrik W . Applegren, Master
R. E. Allan, Past Master
L. E. Wallace, Past Master
F. N. Robinson, Past Master
Elk Grove....................... _.No. 173.... Edward W. Allen, Master...·-·-········- 5.40
Thomas W . Conrad, Past Master
Drytown...........;................. N o. 174....James A. Roos, Sr. Warden.............. 9.40
Antioch..........................;.•.. N o. 175.... George Nicholas Pantell, Master...... 3.26
Phoenix.............................. N o. 178.... Garland 0 . Graefe, Master..................38.20
Emil T. Stahl, Jr. Warden
Mendocino.........................N o. 179.... James R. Wilson, Master...............:....20.70
Petaluina............................N o. 180.... Louis H. Cromwell, Master................ 2.40
Edwin E. Carmody, Sr. Warden
Russian River................... No. 181....Roy H. Bill, Master.............................. 3.80
Arbuckle._......................... No. 182.... Benj. Edison Perkins, Master............ 6.90
Clear Lake......................... No. 183....John Franklin Kramer, Sr. Warden.. 10.50
Sierra Valley..................... No. 184.... Arthur E. Strang, Master....................25.20
Claiborne............................N o. 185....James D. Moungovan, Sr. Warden ..22.50
D. W. Dunbar, Past Master
Evening Star..................... No. 186.... N ot Represented
Keith ...................................N o. 187.... Garrett A. Johnson, Sr. Warden ........ 4.70
George ·E. Skillicorn, Past Master
Oakland.........,.................... N o. 188.... Willard H. Nutting, Master
Owen H . Robertson, Sr. Warden
Sophus Nelson, P. M. & Inspector
Wm. Neil Munro, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Grand Master
Wm. S. MacMurtry, Past Master
Wm. H. Owens, Past Master
Wilfred R. Hill, Past Master
Fred L. Arbogast, Past Master
Northern Light........ ,........No. 190.... Fred Saenger, Sr. Warden,................. 19.30
Walter B. Armstrong, Jr. Warden
M'a rin.:... ~ , ........................-... No. 191.... Harvey A. Borkheim, Master
Frank W. Boileau, Sr. Warden
Jesse E. Tourtellotte, Jr. Warden·
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Wm. M. Chamberlain, Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
Henning S. Vandei, Past Master

Santa Barbara................... No. 192.... Alva Jay Aversman, Master...•............27.40
John W. Zuckweiler, Sr. Warden
Ferndale............................. No. 193....John E. Gries, P. M. & Rep ...............22.50
Mountain View..•............'.No. 194.... William Thomas Rundle, Master...... 2.20
Buckeye..............................No. 195.... Arthur H. Manyan, Past Master
San Simeon:.......................No. 196.... Roland L. Houtz, Master....................21,20
Wilmington .......................No. 198.... Wm. H. Harrison, Master..................34.70
W . . 0. Baker, Sr. Warden
Tom Mason, Sr. Grand Deacon
Hartley...............................No. 199.... Chas. A. Craig, Sr. Warden................ 6.80
Guido de Ghetaldi, P. M. & Insp.
Truckee...................:.......... No. 200.... Frank Lester Rector, Master............ 18.02
Silveyville.......................... No. 201.. .. Chester Murray Menzies, Master...... 4.10
Pentalpha..·-··-············---··-·N o. 202.... Gordan S. Templar, Master................34.70
William W . Stern, Sr. Warden
Wm. R. Hervey Jr:, Jr. Warden
Frank S. Templar, Past Master
Lawrence C. Kelley, P. M. & Insp ...34.70
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master....34.70
William Rhodes Hervey,
Past Grand Master............................34.70
Confidence......................... No. 203 .... W-ilfred John Beatty, Master.............. 6.50
Walter C. Buttle, Past Master
Salinas................................ No. 204.... Fred C. Johansen, Master.................. 6.90
Howard C. Sweet, Sr. Warden
Richard D. Merrill, Jr. Warden
Olivet..........~ ...................... No. 205 .... 0tto B. Liersch, Past Master
Stanislaus ...........................No. 206....James M. Abernethy, Master...........: 6.20
Leonard 0. Wissner, Sr. Warden
Anaheim.............................No. 207 .... Fred Davis, Master..............................36.30
Rio Vista....,....................... No. 208.... Earl Stewart, Jr. Warden.................... 6.40
King David's .............:....... No. 209.... Lorenz V. Richardson, Sr. Warden 19.20
John Whicher, Grand Secretary
Friendship......................... No. 210..... Frederick Owen Eaton, Master.......... 2.90
August E . Gleisberg, Sr. Warden
Eugene W . Moore, Jr. Warden
A. T. Hollingsworth, Past Master
Charles V. Whalley, Past Master
Ernest L. Wilder, Past Master
Claude C. Clark, Past Master
Darrell J. Sedgwick, Past Master
John F. Knight, Past Master
Arthur J. Miner, Past Master
San Benito........ ::............... N o. 211.. .. Frank H. Wood, Past Master
So. San Francisco ............. No. 212 .... Henry T. Conserva, Master
Cecil W. Russell, Jr. Warden
William G. Green, Past Master
Charles H. Kispert, Past Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Past Master
John C. Alioto, Past Master
San Buenaventura ............No. 214.... Lemuel Lee Coy, Master....................30.10
Loren E. Burner, Jr. Warden
Oak Grove................:'. .:..... No. 215 ....]. M. Ansel, Master
L. B. Gordon Jr., Sr. Warden
A. F. Strehlow, Jr. Warden

257

258

l'ROCEEDl~GS

OF THE

Dt;>rjc ....•......•,.-..•.•.............. N o. 216 .... Robert L. Levin, Master
Bernard Fish, Sr. Warden
Edward S. Aaron, Jr. Warden .
Manuel Lafee, Past Master
M 01; ter~y --·-··-·······-,,•·•..··• ~ o. 217 .... Elton W. Van Aman, Master...........• 7.40
C. H. Warren, Past Master
Mosaic ................................No. 218-... Albin R. Jensen, Master ...................... ,2.90
Manley J. Clark, P. M. & Inspector 2.90
Speranza I talian ............. :.N o. 219 .... Lorenzo D. Leone, Master
Armando Simoni, Sr. Warden
Louis Calderoni, Jr. Warden
John M. Icardo, P. M. & Inspector
John lcardi, Past Master
John Isola, Past Master
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
Antonio Cogliandro, Past Master
Downey•.....•............•.......... N o. 220 .... Samuel F. Unsworth, Sr. Warden .... 34.70
lnyo.........•..... ~........:............N o. 221.. .. William C. Poole, Sr. Warden ............ 37.80
Roseville .............................N o. 222 .... Alva Ray Hendershot, Master .......... 6.50
Lucas Schaffer, P. M. & Inspector .... 6.50
Bakersfield ......................... N o. 224.... Henry Clayton Mack, Master............ 23.50
Elbert Sargent Tolle, Jr. Warden
Henry Rissler, Past Master ............... .23.50
Arthur S. Crites, Past Gr'd Master .. 23.50
Brooklyn ........... - ............... N o. 225 .... Arnold Lees, Master ..
Guy Milburn Harris, Sr. Warden
Roy H. Lehthall, Past Master
Herbert D. Johnson, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
Sau Mateo .......................... N o. 226 ....John Morgan Howley, Master .......... 1.10
Miles McK. .Anderson, Sr. Warden
Ray F. Eggers, Jr. Warden
Athens ................................ No. 228 .... Frederick L. Carll, Sr. Warden.......... 4.60
Solano................................. N o. 229 .... Raymond H. Nivarel, Master............ 2.00
Merrit L. Winchell, Jr. Warden
Maurice W. Bowker, Past Master
Henry A. Frahm, Past Master
North Butte ....................... No. 230 .... Chas. A. 'Miller, Sr. Warden .............. 8.60
Covelo ................................. N o. 231.. .. Roy P. Storie, Jr. Wa.rden .................. 12.50
Archie N. Moore, Past Master
J anesville ............................ N o. 232 .... Ralph M. King, Master ..................... .25.12
Calistoga............................ No. 233 .... Herbert E. Washburn, Sr. Warden .. 4.50
Hope................................... N o. 234~ ... Chris. Nicolos, Master ..........................23.28
Surprise Valley....•............ N o. 235 .... W. E. Hill, Jr. Warden ........................ 31.12
Hills Ferry........•- ............. No. 236 .... William S. Thompson, P. M. & Insp. 6.60
Guadalupe.......................... N o. 237.... Guido 0. Ferini, Sr. Warden .............. 20.60
Colusa........ .'........................N o. 240 .... Eldridge L. Hicok, Past Master, Inspector and Representative ............ 8.10
Santa Ana .......................... No. 241.. .. Howard A. Barrows,' Master .............. 36.40
Francis C. Horton, Sr. Warden
A. H. Allen, P. M. & Inspector ........ 36.40
Magnolia ..............:............. N o. 242....Joe Chibos, Jr. Warden ........................27.40
Ralph C. Hine, P. M. & lnspector .... 27.40
Orange R. McNall, Past Master ·
Eucalyptus ............c•••••••..••. No. 243,... Not Represented

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

259

Alcatraz ..............................No. 244 .... William E. Ilmanen, Master
Avis A. Campbell, Sr. Warden
H. Ransom Harrington, Jr. Warden
Anthony D. Childers, Past Master
Arthur H. Gawne, Past Master
Edwin A. Clothier, Past Master
Lewis F. Corwin, Past Master
Laurel., ................. :............ :No. 245 .... Wright Lee Callender, Sr. Warden .... 9.10
Pomona.............................. No. 246: ... Paul R. Shenefield, Master ...... :...........36.80
George G. Kirkpatrick, Sr. Warden
Roy Everet McCann, Jr. Warden
Fresno................................ No. 247 .... Albert Wm. Carlson, Sr. Warden ...... 15.90
Henry F. White, Past Master
Chester H. Warlow, Asst. Gr. Lec... 15.90
Fredo P. Roullard, Past Master .......... 15.90
Alturas __._:.................. ~ ....... N o. 248 .... Lee Roy De Camp, Master .................. 29.22
Charles Lederer, Jr. Warden
Chas. S. Baldwin, P. M. & lnsp ......... 29.22
Adin, ...........................•...•...No. 250 .... Not Represented
Landmar-k.......................... No. 253 .... Floris E. Mast, Past Master
Reading.................•............ No. 254 .... Daniel C. McRae, Sr. Warden ............ 18.30
Edmund Arron Bell, Jr. Warden
Albert F. Ross, Past Master
Gilbert C. DeForest, P. M. and
Asst. Grand L,ecturer ...................... 18.30
McCoy ;Fitzgerald, Past Master
Wel;ome .. :.......:r········-····:No. 255 .... Russell M. Hightower, Sr: Warden .. 18.50
Lod\ •......,: ..•... ,,., .•................ No. 256 .... James \V. Pinkerton, Master .............. 5.40
Herbert G. Gaskill, Sr. · Warden
Walter B. Tindell, Jr. Warden
T. Glenn Wright, P. M. & lnsp"r ........ 5.40
Penrhyn ............ :...............• No .. 258 .... Victor J. DeCampos, Master .............. 7.10
Ev'ergreen ....•............. - ...... N o. 259 .... William 0. Mackey, Master ................ 38.20
Donald G. Adams, Sr. Warden
Willard G. Babcock, :f'. M, & lnsp ... 38.20
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master ........ 38.20
King Solomon ................... No. 260 .... John E. Werry, Master
·
William K. Cullen, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Henry L. Green, Past Master
Wm. P. Filmer, Past Grand Master
and Grand Treasurer
Randolph V. Whiting, Past Grand
Master
Tuscan ................................ No. 261.. .. William M. Hanline, Representative 7.60
Lompoc ...........................:... No. 262 .... 0rrin B. Chamberlain, Master ......... .22.80
' F. R. Jenks, Sr. Warden
W. A. Stewart, P. M. & Inspector ... .22.80
Hesperian.............. :............ No. 264 .... Kenneth E. Trefts, Sr. Warden ......... .21.20
Ortand ...................:.: ....:.: .... No. 265 .... Arthur M. Mapes, Sr. Warden .......... 10.00
'
Herman Thode, P. M. & Inspector
,r
R. C. E. Weber, Past Master ............ 10.00
North East ......................... No. 266.... E. C. McConnaughly, Past Master
Galt.....................................No. 267 .... Burtis Sedley Bill, Master .................... 5.40

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Durant ................................ No. 268 .... Thomas D. Eastin, Master
Leo. G. Titus, Sr. Warden
Niles O. Millar, P. M. & Inspector
George E. Oxley, Past Master
Eugene T . Fdckstad, Past Master
B. J. Rose, Past Master
Walter W . Bradley, Past Master
Ralph E . Hoyt, Past Master
Olive Branch ......... :........... No. 269 ....John G. McMillan, Master.................. 18.60
Snow Mountain ................ No. 271.. .. Lester L. Logan, Sr. Warden ........... .10.16
Pasadena ............................ No. 272 ....John Wm. Joslyn, Master ..................35.50
Chris R. Radford, Sr. Warden
Anchor-.. ,..........................•No. 273 .... M. G. Hubbell, Master ...... ;................... 34.70
C. F. Burke, Sr. Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, P . M. & Inspec'r 34.70
Arroyo ...........................:.... No. 274 .... Harry A. Truesdale, Insp. & Rep ..... 19.20
Oakdale ..............................No. 275 .... Charles T. Murray, P. M. and Rep ..... 7.00
Bernard F. Hoisholt, P. M. & Insp ... 7.00
Selma .................................. No. 277 .... Charles A. West, Sr. Warden ............ 16.90
Southern California ......... No. 278 .... Charles A. Purinton, Master ................ 34.70
Stanley M. Johns, Sr. Warden
C. A. Yarnell, Past Master
Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Mast'r 34.70
E. B. Spencer, Past Master
Hanford............................. No. 279 .... Raymond H. Boyd, Sr. Warden ........ 18.00
William H . Baxter, P. M. & Insp ..... 18.00
Madera................................No. 280 .... Edwin S. W . Erickson, Master.. ........ 10.50
Ray V. Secara, Sr. Warden
Mt. Shasta .......................... No. 281.. .. M. T . York, P. M. & Represent've .... 17.60
Wm. C. Gover, P. M. & Inspector ... .18.30
Callayomi...........................No. 282 .... Donald Albert Read, Master .............. 6.50
South West ........................ No. 283 .... Frank M. Chase Jr., Master ............... .43.38
Chas. R. Costello, Sr. Warden
San Miguel......................... No. 285 .... A. B. Eddy,. P. M. and Represen've ..12.20
Paso Robles ....................... No. 286 .... Charles D. Price, Sr. Warden ............12.80
Winnedumah .................... No. 287 .... 0scar E. McKeen, Master ..................40.00
Maxwell... .......................... No. 288 .... Louis G. Sutton, Jr. Warden.............. 8.10
Elsinore .............................. N o. 289 ....Adrian Benj. Barnett, Master....... ~ .... 38.92
Chas. S. Stephens, Sr. Warden
East Gate ........................... No. 290 .... Robert E. Esterbrook, Master ............34.70
Donald F . Tyler, Sr. Warden
Ralph E . Smith, Past Master ............ 34.70
Frank M. Smith, Sr. Grand Warden 34.70
'Edward L. Stephens, Past Master
Harold C. Schultz, Past Master
Santa Paula....................... No. 291....Randolph H. Moultrie, Master ......~ ..:31.10
William G. Ellis, Sr. Warden
G. A. Quick, P. M. & Inspector ........31.10
Los Gatos ...........................No. 292 .... William Jones, Master .......................... 3.10
Thomas M. Widby, P. M. & Insp ... 2.90
Orange Grove ................... No. 293 .... George N. Weimer, Master ..................36.40
Sigfred W. Swanson, Sr. Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master
Traver ..............••.................No. 294 .... Clare V. R. Nelson, Sr. Warden ....... .17.20
Mt. Jackson .......................No. 295 .... Fred R. Nydegger, Representative .... 5.30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

Silver Gate.........................No. 296 .... Charles F. Creelman, Master ..............43.38
Edward J . B. Coyne, Sr. Warden
'
Max J . Mcintire, Jr. Warden
Raymond P. Wakeman, Past Master
Fred S. Weed, P. M. & Inspector... .43.38
Dunsmuir........ - ................. No. 297 ....Joseph H. Conley, Master ....................23.20
Robert A. Hanson, Past Master
Liberty ..............................• No. 299 .... Wirt S. Bennet, Master ........................ 2.70
Oliver D. Scott, Sr. Warden
Chas. 0. Burrell, P . M. & Inspector 2.70
Clarence Lester Rich, Past Master
Redlands ............................ No. 300 .... Benjamin S. Harrison, Sr. Warden .... 38.70
Arthur P. Crim Sr., Past Master ...... 38.70
Ontario...............................No. 301.. .. Robert E . Harris, Master ......................37.10
Willard W . Baier, Sr. Warden
Santa Lucia........................No. 302 .... Albert A. Rist, Master .......................... 9.60
Porterville .......................... No. 303 .... Gaylord N. Hubler, Master ................ 19.98
Robert L. Cogburn, Sr. Warden
Henry L. Lubking, Past Master
Obed W. Carr, P. M. & Inspector 18.98
W. C. Bradford, Past Master
Reedley ......................•........No. 304 .... Kent A. Fish, Sr. Warden .................... 17.28
Azusa .................................. No. 305 .... Robert F. Hill, Sr. Warden ..................36.20
Ashlar................................. No. 306 .... Merlin S. Caldwell, Master................38.20
Clifford H. Maxwell, Sr. Warden
Santa Monica .................... No. 307 ....J. M. Smith, Master ..............................34.70
W. D. Gill, Sr. Warden
Monrovia ............................No. 308 ....Walter Edward Irwin, Master..........35.80
Frank L . Scott, Sr. Warden
Oliver L. Rawson, P. M. & Insp ....... 35.80
Delano................................ No. 309 .... Ernest P. Jenans, Master ....................21.60
Sisson ..................................No. 310 ... .]ames B. McGuire, Sr. Warden ........25.10
Los Banos .......................... No. 312 .... Not Represented
Tehachapi.......................... No. 313 .... Charles W. Kinne, Master ..................26.40
H. J. H. Beauford, Past Master
Temescal... ......................... N o. 314 ....J ack L. Crandell, Master ......................39,10
Harry L. Whealy, Sr. Warden
Norwalk. ............................ No. 315 .... Walter E. Leonard, Master ................35.30
· Alphons E . Dressell, Past Master
Sanger ................................ No. 316 .... Ivan D. Kennedy, Sr. Warden ............17.90
Fallbrook........................... No. 317 .... Joseph R. Barker, Master.. ..................32.04
Emmanuel... ...................... No. 318 .... Eugene A. Steadman, Jr. Warden .... ~.80
Hollenbeck. ....................... No. 319 .... Hubert C. Grigsby, Master..................34.70
Chas. L. Agins, Sr. Warden
Leon C. Glendenning, Past Master .... 34.70
Leo V. Y oungworth, Past Master.... 34.70
H. L. Killingsworth, Past Master
South. Gate .........................No. 320 ..,.Harry C. Strawn, Master ....................34.70
·Orval B. Berton, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master .......... 34.70
Frederick E. Ussher, Past Master
Robert M. Allen, Past Master
Roy H . Longshore, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AiisaL--------"-------------··---... No. 321.. .. Lawrence E. Thomas, Master ____________ 2.50
Edward F. Nielsen, Sr. Warden
Edwin W. Orloff, Jr. Warden
Alhambra.---············---------:.N o. 322 ....J ohn R. Cornwell, Master ____________________ 35.20
Dean L. Butcher, Sr. Warden
Wilson J. Clark, Jr. Warden
Whittier .. --------···--·-------------N o. 323 .... Willmer P. Mazingo, Master ______________ 35.60
Arthur Martin, Sr. Warden
·
Corona .... --·--------·-·--·----·---:.. No. 324 .... Ralph Sparling, Master·--·--···--····-·------·35.50
Edward H. Rowins, Sr. Warden
Consuelo ____________________________ No. 325 .... Frederick L. Lego, Master ..............,.,.42.22
Needles ............................... No. 326 .... Lyman Oliver Tucker, Master ........... .45.80
Ralph M. Blair, Sr. Warden .
·
Carl C. Mikesell, P. M. & Inspector--45.80
Long Beach ....................... No. 327 .... John A. Buchanan, Master.................. 34.70
· Clark H. Shaw, P. M. & Inspector .... 34~70
Redondo ............................. No. 328 .... W. 0. Wade, Master ............................34.70
E. J. Edwards, Jr. Warden

' Starr King ......................... No. 344 .... Lawrence W. Isaac, Master
Raleigh W. Burlingame, Sr. Warden
Samuel Lippmann, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
C. 0. Munson, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, P. M. & Insp.
Carl Cohn, Past Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
James E. Colston, Past Master
Chas. M. Wollenberg Past Grand Master
Brentwood ......................... No. 345 .... Lawrence L. Ellis, Sr. Warden .......... 3.76
Palo Alto ............................ No. 346 .... Carl W. Johnson, Master ..................... .1.90
Maywood L. Brockway, Sr. Warden
R. C. Coppock Jr., Jr. Warden
A. N. Umphreys, Past Master
Arnold Rumwell, Past Master .......... 1.90
McKinley ........................... No. 347 .... William B. Kirkwood, Master
Albert W. Judkins, Sr. Warden
John De Los Williams, Jr. Warden
Ivan T. Conn, Past Master
Rolla L. Eubanks,- Past Master
San Bernardino .. ______________ No. 348 .... Almon Coonrod, Master ...................... 38.20
Walter W. Taylor, Sr. Warden
Edgar T. Ham, Jr. Warden
Ralph H. Logsdon, P. M. & lnsp .... 38.20
Sequoia ............................... No. 349 .... Kenneth S. Thompson, Master
Richard B. Mortimer, Sr. Warden
Henry S. Savage, Jr. Warden
Fred C. Granholt, Past Master
Donald M. Hughes, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
Edward F. Hughes, Past Master
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
Earl Warren, Past Grand Master
Palestine .......................... :. No. 35 L .. H ugh Heves, Master ........................... .34.70
Frederick B. Winters, Sr. Warden
Thomas J. McDonald. Past Master
Sunset---·-·-----------·--···· .. ··---··No. 352 .... Carltotl Rhoades Stiff, Sr. Warden .... 34.70
Ralph H. Head, Jr. Warden
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Geo. E. Delavan Jr., Past Master .... 34.70
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master ........ 34.70
Samuel E. Burke,
Past Grand Master ............................ 34.70
Rollie W. MH!er,
Past Grand Master ............................ 34.70
Pinole................................. No. 353 .... Alfred Spowart, Sr. Warden .............. 1.40
Harry Z. Howell, Jr. Warden
. Geo. W. Pfeiffer, Past Master
Presidio.............................. No. 354 .... Eric R. Johnson, P. M. & Inspector
Charles R. Cooper, Past Master
Emil G. Wunner, Past Master
Louis E. Boivin, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master

262

Vallee De France............. No. 329 .... Rene Tauzin, Master ............................ 34.70
Kilauea ............................... No. 330 .... Horace W. J. Joyce, Rep. & P. M. 283.00
Pacific Grove ........... :........ No. 331.. .. Arch Balchin, Master ............................ 7.50
Geo. H. Schuyler, Past Master
Russell W. Giles;P. M. & Inspector 6.90
San Pedro.......................... No. 332 .... Reginald V. Wm. Wadsley, Master .. 34.70
..,,.;
William Scott, Sr. Warden
Alta.................... ,................ No. 333 .... William McK. Russell, Master ...... ~---26.82
John D. Murphey, Past Grand Master
Covina.... :............................ No. 334 .... Thomas E. Foster, Sr. Warden ........36.20
Clyde C. Hinshaw, Past Master
West Gate.......................... No. 335 ....Joseph H. Weisman, Master .............. 34.70
Stanley S. Simon, Sr. Warden
Melvin C. Jensen, Jr. Warden
Fruitvale ... •·----··-----------------No. 336 .... Herman D. Swanson, Master
Russell Carl Horstmann, Past Master
Carquinez........ ---·--------------N o. 337 ... _J ohn Milo Curd, Master........................ 1.80
Charles A. Gray, Sr. Warden
W. S. Brunning, Past Master
Jacob Erratt Hughes, P. M. & lnsp.
James King, Past Master
B. Frank Scribner, Past Master
San Jacinto ________________________ N o. 338 .... Parker Jacobs, Master ......................... .41.56
Hardus Sorkness, P. M.& Inspector 40.56
Fullerton .... ---·----------···-·---·-No. 339 .... F. E. Chambers, Master ...................... 36.14
Wm. T. Redger, Past Master
Henry C. MacMaster, P. M. & lnsp. 36.14
C. S. Chapman, Past Master
Oxnard ............................... N o. 341..._J am es R. Miller, Master ...................... 34.70
Reginall R. Newman, Sr. Warden
San FernandO----·-----------·--·No. 343 .... Adrian E. Graber, Sr. Warden __________ 33.50

263

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mill Valtey....;.................... No. 355 .... Bertram R. Coupland, Master............34.70
·
John L. Hall, Sr. Warden
Ira Wm. Merrill, Jr. Warden
Walter F. Burbank, Past Master........34.70
Leo E. Anderson, Grand Orator......34.70
Roy R. Rankin, Past Master
William B. Ogden, Grand Master....34.70
Dudley Black, Grand Marshal............34.70
Hollywood.........................N o. 356 ....Stanley C. Aitchison, Master
· Irvine T. Low, Sr. Warden
F. A. Penn, P. M. & Inspector
W. J. Aitchison, Past Master
A. F. Thomas, Past Master
Kent ]. C. Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park........................No. 357 .... Arthur M. Hartwell, Sr. Warden........36.00
Golden State....- ............... No. 358.... Clayton M. Smith, Master....................34.70
Edgar W. Otto, Sr. Warden
Arthur Barnard Dittman, Past Master
Benjamin Green Wright, Past Master
Wm. A. Schreider, Past Master........34.70
Loyalton .............................N o. 359....]. S. Conklin, Inspector and P. M.....25.20
Geo. L. Snider, Representative..........25.20
San Francisco.................... N o. 360.... Robert B. McElvain, Master
Ross K. Roper, Sr. Warden
Leonard G. Stevenson, Jr. Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Asst. Grand Secty.
Alfred J. Thibadeau, Past Master
George R. Bell, Past Master
Earle Freeman, Past Master
Kenneth F. Saysette, Past Master
V. K Perry, Past Master
John A. Walden, Past Master
Ernest R. Byers, Past Master
Fort Bragg........................ No. 361....Parker Ball, Sr. Warden......................16.70
Norman Johnson, P. M. & Inspector 16.70
Charity·····-························ No. 362.... George E. Hartw~ll, Master................ 3.10
Berke!ey.............................No. 363....J onathan G. Wright, Master
Laurence C. Moore, Sr. Warden
M. W . Sundquist, Jr. Warden .
Frank A. Fielitz, Past Master
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
Willits ................................ N o. 365 .... 0. R. Archer, Sr. Warden.................. 12.60
A. B. Gusslander, P. M. & Inspector 12.60
Las Palmas ........................No. 366.... 0scar C. Olsen, Sr. Warden .............. 15.90
Harold 0 . Sjoberg, Past Master
Jam es · R. Erskine, Past Master
Willard R. Tanzer, Past Master
South Pasadena................No. 367.... Raymond Fulcher, Sr. Warden..........35.04
Andrew 0 . Porter, Jr. Warden
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Horace E . Vedder, P. M. & Insp.....35.04
Unity..........:.. ......·-···-········ No. 368....James C. McCluskey, Master............34.30
Chas. Leland Jenkins, Sr. Warden
Dwight W. Stephenson, Past Master 34.70

'

GRAND LODGE OF-CALIFORNIA

265

Ocean Park........................No. 368.... Lindsay P. Kilgore, Master..........- ......34.70
William D. Tucker, Sr. Warden
Amity..................................No. 370.... George H. Grimm, Master
Frank Wm. Bleg, Jr. Warden
le Progres de l'Oceanie... No. 371.. .. Frederick F. Wurch, Master............250.00
Alexander D. Potts, Inspector and
Grand Standard Bearer..................250.00
Gardena...............................No. 372.... David C. Foster, Sr. Warden-............35.50
Keith W. Schlaegel, P. M. & Insp...35.50
West Los Angeles.......... No. 373 .... Lawrence F. Arnold, Master............34.70
Ernest J. Evans, Past Master
Jewel.....................,..............No. 374.... Arnold R. Engel, Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Louis P. Mayer, Past Master
Hubert Ritter, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Elmer James, Past Master
Charles Anderson, Grand Organist
Clarence J. Shipaugh, Past Master
Richmond .........................• No. 375 ... :ciarence M. Cruickshank, Master
Albert J . Boge, Sr. Warden
John B. Bieg, Jr. Warden
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
Wm. C. Johnson, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
James L. Halley, Past Master
Ernest L. Fischer, Past Master
Francis Drake................... No. 376.... Not Represented
Artesia................................No. 377 .... Frederick W. Earl, Master..................35.30
Mizpah ................................No. 378.... Albert Gordon, Sr. Warden................34.70
Archie A. McConnell, Jr. Warden
Fillmore..............................No. 379....James E . Derham, Master.......- ...-......31.70
Harold E. Dorman, Sr. Warden
Herman J. Haase, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach ........... No. 380 .... Edward S. Tayloe, Master..................37.20
Burrell R. Ries, Sr. Warden
Oceanside ...........,........,...... No. 381.. .. Charles F. Wittorff, Sr. Warden......40.90
.Geo. A. Otis, P . M. & Inspector........40.90
Highland Park ..................No. 382.... L. Byron Richards, Master..............-)4.?~
B .. Ed Landis, Sr. Warden
· ·· ·· ·'
Harold F. Willer, Past Master
OrosL.........,........ .'...,....:.....No. 383 .... 0rville Lynn Beckner, Master.......... 18.12
El Centro.............:.....- ....... No. 384.:.. Ralph I. French, Sr. Warden............ 54.02
Chas. H. Knights, P. M. & Inspector 54.02
John Stewart Ross, Past Grand
, ·Master ................................................ 34.70
Dinuba'.................,..............No. 385 .... Max Porto'n, Master.............................. 17.68
Clare~ce L . Fraser, P. M. & Insp...., 17.68
Coalinga·......,.................::... No. 387 .... Raymond B. Prenatt, Sr. Warden ......20.60
Pai:nassus.-.c..............'.:....:..No. 388.... George K. Crandall, Jr. Warden
Joseph Charles Durhan, Past Master
J. E. White, Past Ma.s ter .

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Palos Verdes........•;••...•..,..No. 389.... Walter F. Good, Sr. Warden..............34.70
William Ed. Albers, Jr. Warden
Ernest E. Archer, Past Master
Imperial.......................c.:....No. 390.... David]. Blank, Sr. Warden................54.02
East Belt............................ No. 391....Perry F. Baker, Master......................:. 9.28
Vfest Lake......................... No. 392.... M: F. McComb, Master......................34.70
· R. C. Peyton, Sr. Warden
Walter L . Berger, Past Master..........34.70
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master..............34.70
Chas Emerston Listenwalter, P. M...34.70
Wm. Theodore Osterholt, Past Master
Ba!der.................................No. 393.... Victor C. Peterson, Master
Fred C. Shedwill, Sr. Warden
LeRoy W. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Past Master
Elias Ellison, Past Master
Alfred Berglof, Past Master
University...............~ .......... No. 394.... Elmer E. Anderson, Master................34.70
Myron E. Smith, Sr. Warden
Chas. E'. Gartman, Past Master
Edw.. A. Brown, Past Master
Turlock..........:·····,,······:..... ~o. 395 ... ~H~nry C. Hamilton, Master................ 7.00
Harry 0. Carlson, P. M. & Inspector 7.00
Apollo................................. No. 396....J ohn L. Darms, Master
E. P. Butterfield, Sr. Warden
Edwin G. Nelson, Past Master
Karl L . Mallard, Past Master
Rising Light......,;.............. No.. J97 ..
McClintock, Master..........................34.70
Robert M. Dempsey, Sr. Warden
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Fraternity.......................... No. 399.... Harold DeF. Broderick, Master........ 2.9(}
Vernon E. Perren, Sr. Warden
Burlingame.......:......~ .........No. 400 .... Samuel L. Hawken, Insp. & P . M;
William Wilkin, Past Master
E. E. Anderson, Past Master
Bay View........................... No. 401.... Frederick H. Kronke, Sr. Warden ·
Lloyd A. Hasha, Jr. Warden
Harold M. Bankhead, Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley.............................. N:o. 402.... Chas. It Youngstrom, Jr. Warden.... 53.70
Yerba Buena.................... No. 403....William F. Elder, Master
. John R. Keating, Sr. Warden
James R. McCloskey, Jr. Warden
Gkndora..........~................ No. 404.... Fred A. Nichols, Sr. Warden..............36.40
Moneta..................•.............No. 405 .... George C. J. McNamara, Master......34.70
Stuart Bell Davis, Sr. Warden
Otto A. Stoltz, Past Master
'
Burbank.............................. No. 406....Thomas J. Henry, Sr. Warden..........34.10
Herbert S. Sprinkle, Past Master
La Mesa:........................•.;,. No. 407.... K. L. McKinney, Representative........43.38
SierraMadre..................... No. 408.... Samuel L. Graham, Master..................35.50
Honolulu.............:.......:.:...:No. 409....]. D. Herbert, Master..........................250.00

..J.

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

Charter Rock..................."No. 410.... F. H. Elliott, Master
C. D. Milton Gray, Sr. Warden
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Chas. W. Stannard, Past Master
Stanley S. Jack, Past Master
Edgar E. Randall, Past Master
W. D. Wisdom, Past Master
Perris.................................. N o. 411.. .. Harry Hagan, Representative............39.52
Calexico..............................No. 412.... Allen Watson Mains, Master..............54.02
T. D. Pledger, Past Master
Waucoba............................No. 413.... Alfonse Nikolaus, Jr. Warden..........40.70
Wm. L . Davis, Past Master & Insp ...40.70
Arlington........................... No. 414.... Hal Albert Greene, Master................34.70
Ario Dale Squires, Senior Warden
Carl F. Peters, P. M. & Inspector....34.70
Silver Trowel..........,......,.. No. 415 .... F. S. Brennan, Master..........................34.70
H . C. Smith, Sr. Warden
Lindsay....................~......... No. 416....Theodore L. Cairns, Master................ 19.38
·
·
James R. McBride, Sr. Warden
Clovis.................................. No. 417....Ebert Waldo Franck, Sr. Warden...... 16.90
Elysian~.........................:.... No. 418.... Arthur E. Gray, Master ......................34.70
Chas. C. Ashurst, Sr. Warden
Joseph A. Forest, Jr. Warden
Upland................................ No. 419 .... Clare Blakeslee, Jr. Warden..............37.20
·
W. R. Farmer, P . M. & Inspector....37.20
Kerman .................,.;".......... No. 420....John Colburn Whitmore, Master...... 15.20
Inglewood.........................No. 421.....Leonard E. Matson, Master................34.70
·
George W . Yates, Sr. Warden
Frank R. Wolter, Past Master
Eagle Rock .........~ ..............No, 422....W. H. Moulton, Master......................34.70
A. D. E. Howard, Sr. Warden
John D. Dillon, Jr. Warden
Winston E. Squire, Past Master
York....................................No. 423.... s: T. Richardson, Master.........:..::......34.70
Elmer]. Tarr, Sr. Warden
Exeter.................................No. 424.... Ivan L. Schelling, Master.................... 18.98
Adna F. Neil, Sr. Warden
Frank Mixter, Past Grand Master.... 18.98
Holtville.......•.................... No. 425.:..Dean · S. Richmond, Sr. Warden........ 56.02
Midway.....................;........ No. 426....William H. Fenneman, Master..........26.50
Milton G. Ross, Sr. Warden
Chino Valley..................... No. 427....Ray K. Klumb, Sr. Warden................37.80
·San Dimas......................... No. 428.... Frank P. Jochimson, Master..............36.50
Arthur E. Tangeman, P. M. & Insp. 36.50
Pittsburg............................No. 429.... Fredi:rick.A. Fletcher, Master............ 3.00
William G. Buxton, Sr. Warden
Ralph M. Hershey, Jr. Warden
McC!oud............................ No. 430.... William Gleason, Sr. Warden.~.: ........25.10
Elllptt M. Smith, Past Master
.
Chas. S. Hogan, P. M. & Inspector..25.10
Alpha..................................No.· 431 .... David ·Crockett Gray, Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master
Wm. M. Purdue Self, Past Master
Edgar Cornell Clark, Past Master
John McGrath, Past Master
Martin Wiltz, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hammonton ......................No . .433 .... Harry S. Hooper, Master .................... 8.00
Maricopa·- ········- ·····'·;....... No. 434.... Henry C. Kinkade, Sr. Warden....... .26.50
Fairmount ... ~ ..................... No. 435 .... Edward E. Hutchison, Master
Francis N. Wininger, Past Master
Claremont .......................... No. 436 .... Henry E . Reynolds, Master ................36.90
Lancaster.. :.....•.................. No. 437 .... Winfred]. St. Clair, Sr. Warden ........30.00
Acacia..........:...................... No. 438 .... \Villiam Wiesner, Master .................... 34.70
Karl L. Ratzer, P. M. & Inspector.... 34.70
Tyrian ............•.................... N.o. 439 .... Thomas R. Fuller, Jr. Warden............ 5.20
Standard ............................. N o. 440 .... Harry D. Adkins, Master
Louis H. Bishop, Sr. Warden
DeMille M. Campbell, Past Master
Fred ]. Degen, Past Master
Clifford J. Sorel, Past Master
Coronado..........,................ No. 441.. .. Paul Elmer Brose, Sr. Warden......... .43.38
Harry S. Clark, P. M. & Inspector ... .43.38
Blackmer.......................:.....No. 442 .... George W . Fisher, Master................. .43.38
. Edward Drake, Sr. Warden
Warren E. Libby, Past Master..........34.70
Schofield............................ No. 443 ....James C. Peden, Master ...................... 250.00
Carpinteria........................ No. 444.... Emanuel Deilbe Solari, Sr. Warden ..29.10
Charles Curtis, Past Master
Wilshire ..........,.................. No. 445 .... W. W. Chegwidden, Master.. .............. 34.70
H. E . Lindersmith, Sr. Warden
Fred E . Clark, Past Master
T. A. Dille, P. M. & Inspector .......... 34.70
John S. Hunt, Past Master
Will H . Fischer, Past Grand Master34.70
John Klarquist, Grand Pursuivant....34.70
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master..........34.70
La Puente.......................... No. 446 .... David H. Sprong, Jr. Warden ............35.90
Torrance ............................ No. 447 .... Clifford E. Ruppel, Sr. Warden ........34.70
Mt. Diablo......................... No. 448 .... Henry R. Sickenberger, Sr. Warden 3.10
Park.................................... No. 449 .... William G. Menary, Master
Herman W. Luft, Jr. Warden
Foster G. Dyer, P. M. and Inspector
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Master
George H . Gisin, Past Master
'Van Nuys·.... ::.~.L .. ,.~'-··'··'··No. 450 .... Paul E. Stretch, Master........................34.70
Herbert W . Walker, P. M. & Insp ... 34.70
Wm. G. H. Russell, Past Master
Montebello.~ .............,........ No. 451....Charles H . Hardy, Master .................. 34.70
Willis P. Fisher, Sr. Warden
San PasquaL. .................... No. 452.... Thomas A. Nelson, Master................ 35.50
K. A. Reeder, Sr. Warden
Bethlehem ..... ;.................... No. 453 .... Vincent P . McMurdo, Master
George V. Rulofson, Sr. Warden
Robert M. Smith, Past Master
John C. Painter, Past Master
Crocker..........c.................... No. 454 .... Harold J . Dieken, Master
Walter C. Schenk, Sr. Warden
Hi• !,,
George C. Chamberlain, Past Master
Roydon K. Friedricks, Past Master
John Mitchell, Past Master

Golden West.. .. ·-·······-···.. No. 455 .... Harry H. Hoopes, Master
Peter L. Jackson, Sr. Warden
Earle B. Brenhaut, Jr. Warden
Lewis H. Cohn, Past Master
George Robert Brockman, Past Master
Geo. Edw. Chapin, Past Master
Ramona ..............................No. 457 .... Not Represented
Henry S. Ormec ................ No. 458 .... Donald D. Sanderson, Master............ 34.70
A. Guy Karicofe, Sr. Warden
Fred C. Warner, P. M. & Inspector.. 34.70
Riverbank .......................... No. 459 .... Leo. P. Hedegard, Master .................. 6.60
John Roscoe, Sr. Warden
Mount Oso..........•...- •....... No. 460 .... Harvey C. Howard, Sr. Warden ........ 4.30
Argonaut ............................ N o. 461.. .. F. A. Mosebach, Master
Walter S. Flowers, Sr. Warden
Sidney A. Romer, Jr. Warden
Addison B. Collins, Past Master
Sigfried Fels, Past Master
Joseph A. Blackford, Past Master
J. Denison McCue, Past Master
John Andrew Evans, Past Master
Joseph Anthony Steinmetz, Past Master
W.R. Bowden, Past Master
Harry P. Rothermel, Past Master
Homer P. Thyle, Past Master
Chas. L. McKinnon, Past Master
Ralph Edwin Pfeiffer, Past Master
Paul Revere ....................... No. 462.... Roy Charles Lemoge, Master
Wendell A. Stuart, Sr. Warden
Ralph W. Dunshee, Jr. Warden
Joel Harold Springer, Past Master
John Cox, Past Master
John C. Oslin, Past Master
W. A. Gerder, Past Master
0. W. Sandstrom, Past Master
Morgan Hi!L.................... No. 463 .... William M. Meagher, Sr. Warden...... 4.10
Alta Vista .......... ,................No. 464 .... John R. Titsworth, Master
Dwight N. Deane, Sr. Warden
Wm. J. Angenent, Jr. Warden
Arthur E . Hewitt, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
H . L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Earle Lloyd Bagot, Past Master
Center.................:............... No. 465 .... Marion A. Long, Sr. Warden .............. 15.90
Roy W. Peterson, Jr. Warden
S. E. Dollar, P. M. & Inspector........ 15.90
Libertas .............................. No. 466 .... Charles R. Wilkes, Master..................23.50
Raymond G. Taylor, P. M. & Insp .. .23.50
Culver City ... ::...................No. 467 .... 0tis K. Sherrod, Master ...................... 34.70
Truman Van Dyke, P. M. & Insp .....34.70
Rockridge .....:·.............. ,..... No. 468 .... Leland S. Phillips, Master
Bernard Y. Smith, Jr. Warden
William E . Harris, Past Master
Willard W. Shea, Past Master

268

269

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Yorba Linda ........... :.......... N o. 469 .... Avalon A. Adams, Master .......... :.........36.70
Lincoln ...............................No. 470.... Harry Geballe, Master
Leslie E. Garron, Past Master
. .
Arthur M. Joel, P. M. & Inspector
Delta ................................... No. 471 .... 0scar T . Melton, Master...................... 5.10
Maui................................ :...No. 472 .... George B. Glick, Sr. Warden ..........272.00
B~ythe ................................. No. 473 .... Myrvin Chester Wells, Sr. Warden ..48.62
V1ctory............................... No. 474.... 0tto von Raven, Sr. Warden
F. Jack Marsicano, Jr. Warden
W. H. Dufton, Past Master ·
H. T . Darr, Past Master
America............................. No. 475 .... G. A. Stewart, Master ..........................34.70
Cqachella........................... No. 476.... Roy F . King, Sr. Warden ..................46.40
Temblor...............:............. No. 477 .... Ca_spar E . Parsons, Master..................27.50
·
Chas. E. Simons, P. M. & Inspector 27.50
Thousand Oaks ................No. 478 .... Fred A. Mainzer, Master
Kenneth R. Evans, Sr. Warden
Ferd A. Schlafke, Jr. Warden
Geo. L . Hammon, Past Master
R. P. \Visecarver, Jr. Grand Deacon
Edw. M. Walls, Past Master
Golden Rule ...................... No. 479....Joel M. Carter, Master .......................... 2.90
Fellowship ......................... No. 480.... Not Represented
Mt. Davidson .................... No. 481.. .. Derrel ]. Smith, Master
George A. Sohst, Sr. Warden
Alfred R. Tuckey, Jr. Warden
Albert Peter de Ferrari, Past Master
Arthur Melvin Warren, Assistant
Grand Lecturer
Clarence F. Smith ............ No. 482 ....Thomas Grant, Sr. Warden ..................34.70
BelL....................................No. 483 .... 0tto F. Bei~ay, Sr. Warden ..............34.70
Harold 0. Comaford, Past Master
Albert Pike ........................ No. 484 .... Leland H. Rundio, Sr. Warden ........34.70
Chowchilta ........................ No. 485 .... Delbert I. Secara, Sr. Warden ............ 9.50
Caledonia ........·................... No. 486 .... Edward D. Myers, Master.~................23.50
Wm. L. Bradshaw, Sr. Warden
N. D. Cleghorn, Past Master
Va11ejo.................- ... ,......... No. 487 .... George E . Rosen, Master ...................... 2.00
John F. Spires, Sr. Warden
Wm. H. McDonough, Jr. Wal'den
Thos. B. Pollard, P . M. & Inspector 2.00
Carl 0. Lindley, Past Master
Patterson........................... No. 488 .... Korbel W . Davis, Sr. Warden ............ 5.90
East Bay............................ No. 489 .... Roy A. Parkinson, Past Ma~ter
Corcoran ............................ No. 490 .... Leon Dunning, Sr. Warden ................ 18.74 .
Woodstock....................... No. 491.. .. Harry W . Oliver, Master
.
Clarence E. Maddox, Sr. Warden
Frederick Bue McAtee, Past Master
Garvanza............................N o. 492.... H ubert A. Oliver, Sr. Warden ............34.70
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Atascadero.....................;.. No. 493 .... C. Truesdale, Sr. Warden .................... 17.10
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
D. L. Balderson, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

Acom ......•. :........................ No. 494.... Knute E. Vikander, Master
John C. Wickland, Sr. Warden
Rowland B. Reinig, Jr. Warden
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Reginald V. Joste, Past Master
Lebanon,........... :................No. 495 .... Morris Rosenberg, Master
Riverdale ........................... No. 496 .... L. E. Harlan, P. M. and Rep ............. 15.90
Fremont.........•...................No. 497 .... Harry A. Vahlbusch, Master
Harold Joe Kuechler, Sr. Warden
Ernest H. Stange, Jr. Warden
Chester C. Morris, P. M. & Inspector
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
William W. Hoffman, Past Master .
Stockton ............................. No. 498 .... Carlton H. Steel, Master ...................... 5.10
Roger W . Case, Sr. Warden
Capital City~ ...................... No. 499 .... Lester G. Bruno, Sr. Warden .............. 5.40
Eugene L. Rogers, Jr. Warden
Wm. D. Richards, Inspector
Roosevelt •.......................... No. 500 .... Adolph Boicelli, Master
Joseph Scannell, Past Master
N. E. Johnsson, Past Master
Westwood ......................... No. 501.. .. Dane 0. Phelan, Master ...................... 23.12
Eugene L. Smith, Inspector
Harbor ..................~ ...........•No. 502 .... Cecil F. Westwood, Master
William A. Allison, Jr. Warden
Point ...................................No. 503 .... C. W . Chappell, Master
Cyrus N. Nielson, Past Master
Louis F. Moore, Past Master
Seaside .........................:......No. 504 .... George E. Diamond, Master.............. 34.70
Frederick G. Berbower, Jr. Warden
William J. Courtiour, P . M. & lnsp. 34.70
William T. Corbusier, Past Master
Silvn Cord ........................ No. 505 .... Courtney R. Chandler, Master ............36.40
James F. McWilliams, Sr. Warden
Mount Olive ......................No. 506 .... Alvin A. Wendt, Master .. :...................34.70
]. W. Lehners, Sr. Warden
Ed L. DePatie, Inspector.~ .................. 34.30
Z. Rodriguez, Past Master
El Segundo ........................ No. 507 ....James H. Van Norman, Sr. Warden 34.70
Joppa ...... :.: ......................... No. 508 .... Melvin David Hughes, Sr. Warden .... 17.40
Benjamin Franklin .......... No. 509 .... Ralph G. Ritchie, Master ....................34.70
Richard Simon, Sr. Warden
Cupertino........................... No. 510 .... Not Represented.
Sunnyvale .......................... No. 511.. .. Francis B. Weber, Master .................. 2.40
R. M. Spedding, Past Master
Palms ................................. No: 512 .... Lee T. Smith, Master ........................... ..34.70
Seth B. Chaille, Sr. Warden
Cahuenga ........................... No. 513 .... Elgin Hyde, Master ..............................34.70
·
Harry E. Shimp, Sr. Warden
Earl W. Neal, Jr. Warden
Roy Caswell Bryan, Inspector ............34.70
Argonne .............................No. 514 .... Herbert R. Lemont, Master
Edwin A. Gumbinger, Sr. Warden
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
Vermont Square ............... No. 515 .... Charles 0 . Chrisman, Master.............. 34.70
Ford E. Jackson, Sr. Warden

272

l'ROGEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Taft.....•..•............................ No. 516.... Walter Hamlin Ireland, Master ........ 26.50
Adolph Reader, Sr. Warden
Harry W. Beatty, Past Master
Mt. Vernon ........................ No. 517 .... Chester Jesse Capps, Master
James T. Morrice, Sr. Warden
Lawrence S. Cronander, Jr. Warden
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
La J olla.............. :............... N o. 518 ....John W. Ratz, Sr. Warden ..................43.38
Euclid.................................. N o. 519 .... Carl D. Haase, Master.. ....................... 34.70
Ionic..:................................. N o. 520 .... David Goldstein, Master ...................... 34.70
Harold H. Krowech, Sr. Warden ·
Piedmont........................... No. 521.. .. George Roeth Jr., Master
L. D. Sherman, Sr. Warden
Lawrence Bolenbaugh, Inspector
Herbert S. Shuey, Past Master
Sunrise........... :..... :.............. No. 522... Nv'illard V. Reece, Sr. Warden ............ 34.70
W. E. Toole, Past Master
Bellflower....................:..... No. 523 .... A. J. McKowen, Master ......................35.80
Roy L. Sfover, Sr. Warden
Catalina Island ................. No. 524.... Victor C. Lytle, Master ..................... .41.70
John W. Windle, Sr. Warden
George Washington ........ No. 525 .... Roscoe Cole, Master
Elmer E. Cole, Jr. Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City ............................ .No. 526 .... Louis Shain, Master
Jerome R. Gruman, Sr. Warden
Harry Thor, Jr. Warden
Edw. N. Jackson, Past Master
Edgar U. Meyer, Past Master
'
Co~eftant ...... <................,. ... No. 527 .... H. M. Greminger, Sr. Warden ........ ,... 34.70
Beverly Hills .................... No. 528 .... W. S. Harris Jr., Master.. .................... 34.70
George E. Hall, Sr. Warden
Joe Bookman, Jr. Grand Steward .... 34.70
Frank Harwell, lnspector .................... 34.70
Loyalty.................;............ No. 529 .... Jack Simmons, Master .......................... 34.70
Allan Fayne, Sr. Warden
Sun Garden ............... ., ...... No. 530., .. LeRoy Stubblefield, Sr. Warden ........ 15.90
Herbert R. Hargrave, Inspector., ...... 15.90
Alexandria ......................... N o. 531.. .. Frank F. Goodman, Past Master
Sntyr:na •....,....................... ,..N o. 532 .... Andrew M. Tulley, Past Master
Azure .................................. No. 533 .... John Lasch, Master .............................. 36.14
George D. Killman, Sr. Warden
Forest Hill... ............... ;......No. 534....John H. Tietjen, Master
·
Alvin H. Davis, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ....... No. 535 .... Charles M. Denker, Master.. .............. 34.70
Wm. F. Lohr, Sr. Warden
Seal Rock. ..........:............... No. 536 .... Leslie B. Mickell, Master
Grosvenor Hiles, Sr. Warden
Edwin W. Bode, Past Master
John K. Wright, Past Master
.
Utopia............_., ..,................ No. 537 .... Charles D. McCaulley, Sr. Warden .. 34.70
P. 0. Gunther, Jr. Warden
Ascot...................•.............. No. 538 ... ._:Edward B. Caustin, Master ....,... ,,., ...... 34.70
James E. Cox, Sr. Warden

Belvedere ........................... No. 539 ....John B. Eaton, Master.............. ;•.;......34.70 ·
Fred H. Flowers, Sr. Warden
Dee Needham, Jr. Warden
Queen Beach ..................... No. 540 .... George Rodney, Master ........................ 34.70
Henry Morse Stephens ... No. 541.. .. Clyde B. DeVilbiss, Master
Harold Schulze, Jr. Warden
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Harold W. Conklin, Inspector
A. L. Koue, Past Master
Lankershim ....................... No. 542 .... George F. Osborne, Sr. Warden ........ 34.70
Signal... ............................... No. 543 .... Max C. Lamberton, Master ................ 34.70
Alvin P. Bly, Sr. Warden .
Glendale ............................. No. 544 .... Albert C. Lane, Master ........................ 34.30
Jonathan ............................. No. 545 .... W. G. Furniss, Master
Herbert E. Stone, Past Master
San Gabriel... ..... ;..,:............ No. 546...• Donald M. Hunter, Sr. Warden ........ 35.30
Arcadia ............................... No. 547 .... Victor H. Gunderson, Sr. Warden ...... 35.70
Triangle ............................. No. 548 .... Charles W. Lacy, Master ............,... :...34.70
Ralston B. Cleaveland, Sr. Warden·
Justice ......................... ~ .... No. 549 .... George David Horn, Master
Percy Vane Maury, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Wm. Willis Barry, Past Master
M. F. Conklin, Past Master
Frank M. Scott, Past Master
Seaport ............................... No. 550 .... Frederick J. Dykstra, Master
George .F. McKarley, Jr. Warden
Walter H. E. Von Konsky, Inspector
James J. Yates, Past Master
John Alpers, Past Master
Felton D. Harris, Past Master
Chas. F. Knipe, Past Master
Lais.eshore .................... ,..... No. 551.. .. George 0. Johnson, Master
Chas. C. Buckley, Past Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
John R. McKalip, Past Master .
Semper Virens .................. No. 552.... Kenneth MacLean, Sr. Warden .......... 22.40
Educator........... ~ ........... :.:.:No, 554 .... Harold W. Huddleson, Master
Lloyd J. Smith, Sr. Warden
Theodore M. Noble, Jr. Warden
Walter Peter Simi, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Inspector
Max B. Wilson, Past Master
White Pine ........................ No. 555 .... R.ichard Wm. Gould, Sr. Warden ...... 24.80
Fairfax.... ,,. ......................... No. 556 .... Earl S. White, Past Master
Hermosa ............................ No. 557.... N. R. Kuhn, Sr. Warden ...................... 34.70
Point Firmin ..................... No. 558 .... William H. Liggett, Sr. Warden ...... 34.70
John P. Tripcevich, Past Master
Craftsman .......................... No. 559 .... Ray Edmund McMullen, Master ........34.70
Avery W. Phillips, Sr. Warden ·
. R. A. Hickman, Past Master
David E. Henry, Past Master
Plymouth ........................... No. 560 .... Charles W. Sweeney, Master
,..
Edward H. Siems, Sr. Warden
Andrew G. Stewart, Past Master

273

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

East San Diego .................No. 561.. .. Harry Kenneth Ford, Sr. Warden ... .43.38:
Pyramid..........,..............:.....No. 562.... Julius J. Schmid, Master
Frank R. Fowden, Sr. Warden
Eugene A. Tipton, Past Master
South Park......................... No. 563 .... Jacob M. Goepfert, Master ...............'. ..34.70
Sidney F. Hill, Jr. Warden
N. D. High, Past Master
Hugh E. Moor, Past Master
Foothill... ......;.......... :..........No. 564 .... Frederick H . Camber, Master
Ludolf Wm. Folkers, Sr. Warden
B. L. Miller," Past Master
West Adams ....................-No. 565 ....Samuel Lochhead, Sr. Warden .......... 34.70
James A. Garfield ............ :No. 566 .... Phillip M. Couturier, Master .............. 34.70
Harry M. Hunt, Sr. Warden
Searchlig~t---···-·········:········No. 567 .... Walter E. Hoffman, Master................ 34.70
Houston C. Fairley, Sr. Warden
H. D. Logan, Past Master
C. J . Hill, Past Master
· Park Boulevard ................ No. 568.... Kenneth A. Prettyman, Master
John G. Hagist, Sr. Warden
Chateau Thierry .............. No. 569 .... Beryl B. Berry,· Master
Don K. Hastings, Sr. Warden
E. ]. Ralston, Past Master
Military Service ................ N o. 570 .... Robert Jam es Martin,.] r. Warden
Fred L. Somers, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck ........ No. 571.. .. Elbert W . Davis, Master
Olin E. Dellinger, Sr. Warden
Joseph A. Pivemetz, Jr. Warden
Bruce Bartholomew, Past Master
James Madison ................. No. 572 .... Robert H. Menelaus, Master ....,......... 34.70
Norris S. Bradeen, Sr. Warden
Hillcrest ....... ~ ..................... No. 573 .... H . J. F . Sattin, Master
G. B. Blanckenburg, Past Master
s. W. Hackett ................... No. 574 .... Nathan B. Vic~ers, Master ............... .43.38
Fort Crook.•.......................No. 575 ....Emmett B. Tribble, Sr. Warden ......24.30
Reginald Reynolds, Jr. Warden
El Cajon Valley.........,.... No. 576 .... Walter A. Rawley, Sr. Warden ....... .44.08
Sunnyside...........................N o. 577 .... W. F. Ireland, Master ····-··---------------------34.70
John A. Low, Sr. Warden
Progressive ........................ No. 578 .... B. W . Box, Master ....................... ,........ 34.70
C. F. Dickinson, Sr. Warden
Perry R. Borden, Past Master
Warren G. Harding......... No. 579 .... Peter J. Kramer, Jr. Warden ____________ __ 5.40
Santa Maria ...........:........... No. 580 .... Fred H . Farmer, Master .................... ..45.58
Security.............................. No. 581....Glenn E. Thomas, Master ....................23.50
Herbert A. Underwood, Sr. Warden
Rialto~ ................................. No. 582.... ]. Edw. McManis, Jr. Warden ............ 38.20
Paul G. Weller, lnspector .................. 38.20
Wasco ................................. N o. 583 .... Emil Bender, Sr. Warden ................... .21.02
Harding .............................. No. 584.... W. B. Blanchard, Sr. Warden ............ 34.70
Manchester...... :................. No. 585 .... Elmer Larcom, Master .......................... 34.70
Jack E. Walker, Jr. Warden
Garden Grove .................... No. 586 .... L. W. Schauer, Sr. Warden ................ 36.40
Valley Forge ..................... No. 587.... 0. K. Robinson, Master ...................... 34.70
G. W. Cubitt, Sr. Warden
Chas. L: W. Vocke, Past Master

El Sereno ........................... No. 588.... Charles Juengst, Sr. Warden .............. 34.70
Kauai... ................... ;........... No. 589 ....John A. M. Eldon, Sr. Warden ........ 272.00
Compass .............................No. 590 .... Roy G. Decker, Sr. Warden ................ 36.80
Escalon ............................... No. 591.. .. Archie T. Roberson, Master .............. 7.10
Clarence M. Gadbury, Sr. Warden
Tujunga .............................. No. 592 .... Henry Knollmiller, Sr. Warden ........ 35.20
All Statcs ....................... - ...No. 593 .... Edward McKee Rudd, Master.......... 34.70
George Bruce Dodds, Sr. Warden
Service................................ No. 594.... Ray R. Michael, Master......................34.70
Floyd R. Hammond, Sr. Warden
Alexander Graham Bell..No. 595 ....Arley C. Colema_n, Sr. Warden .......... 34.70
Guardian .............................No. 596 .... Ed. W. Upmeyer, Sr. Warden ............34.70
Pearl Harbor.....................No. 598 .... S. Ferreira, Master ..............................250.00
Carmelita ........................... No. 599 ....A. H. Dinsmoor, Master ...................... 35.50
J. Tyler Parker Jr., Inspector ............ 35.04
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood ............................No. 600.... George A. Richardson, Master .......... 34.70
Grizzly................................No. 601....William H. Wise, Master ....................23.60
·
Harry S. Date, Past Master
Melrose............................... No. 602.... E. W. Deckenbach, Sr. Warden ........ 34.70
J . Lynn Goode, Inspector .................... 34.70
Dimond ........ ,..................... No. 603 .... Willard W . Wooden, Master
J ubilec.................................N o. 604.... Louis Braasch, Master........................ 36.40
John Garthe, Sr. Warden
John Kohler, Past Master
Glassell Park..................... No. 605 ....John P. McLean, Master ...................... 34.70
Sojourner...•....................... No. ~7 .... Paul M. Beck, Master ..........................35.80
Granada.............................. No. 608.... Charles C. Sautter, Master.................. 35.20
W. A. Wolford, Sr. Warden
Provident ........................... No. 609 .... Isaiah L. Driver, Master ...................... 5.40
Leo C. Houston, Sr. Warden
Leslie E. Wood, Jr. Grand Warden .. 2.70
Elmhurst... .........................No. 610 .... Robert A. Wright, Master
Albert L. Hathaway, Sr. Warden
Conrad Knippenberger, Jr. Warden
John Gilmour, Past Master
Carl E. Boorman, Past Master
Canoga ............................... No. 611....Joseph W. Daic, Sr. Warden .............. 36.50
Temple City...................... No. 612 ....R. C. Martin, Sr. Warden ....................35.26
Three Pillars ..................... No. 613 .... John L. Gibson, Master ........................ 5.40
Larchmont .........................No. 614.... R. C. Griffin, Master ............................34.70
Dean H. Shoopman; Sr. Warden
Geo. P . Salm, P. M. & Inspector......34.70
Herman E . Bennett, Grand Bible
Bearer .................................................. 34.70
Hcmet.........c••.•••••••••••••••••••.No. 615 .... Thurman A. Baldwin. Master............40.56
S. Bruce Avan, Sr. Warden
R. E. Dolley...................... No. 616 .... Donovan D. Lawhead, Master ............ 34.76
Irvin C. Smith, Past Master
Big Bear .............: ............... No. 617.... S. Jay Sarkis, Master .........................-.43.20
Southland ...........................No. 618 .... J. A. Crosbie, Master ............................34.70
Wm. L. Hovis, Inspector ...................... 34.70
Neptunc ............ :.:...............No. 619 .... Robert R. Ruchti, Master ....................34.70
Point Loma ....................... No. 620 .... ]. Clifford Hampton, Master ..............43.38
Thereon C. Lake, Sr. Warden

274

275

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Gardens ......................No. 621....R. R. Wood, Master..............................34.70
Kenneth F. Watts, Sr. Warden
Atwater................:.•........... No. 622....William 0. Wylie, Master................--34.70
John G. Gregory, Sr. Warden
Menorah.............................No. 623 .... Martin Pollack, Master........................34.70
Harry Cherry, Sr. Warden
Fortitude............................No. 624.... Shelly Alexander. Fortier, Master
Alfred L. Costa, Sr. Warden
Angeles Mesa....................No. 625 .... Albert L. Buratti, Master....................34.70
Carl N. Foster, Sr. Warden
Chula Vista.....................:..No. 626....W. A. Finley, Past Master
Lamanda Park..................No. 627.... Larry W. Largent, Master..................35.50
Herbert A. Harvey, Sr. Warden
Truth.........................:........ No. 628 .... Homer B. Reed, Sr. Warden..............34.70
Fairview...:...........•............. No. 629 .... Donald G. Butts, Master................•.....34.70
Wm. A. Curtis, · Sr. Warden
W. C. Hudnall, Past Master
Arthur W. Billings, Past Master
lngleside............................ No. 630.... Henry C. Clausen, Master
A. H. Krage!, Past Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, Deputy Grand Master
Paul J. Knibb, Past Master
Raymond W . Blosser, Past Master
John Briggs Connolly, Past Master
Benevolence ....,................. No. 631.. .. H. E. Bohannon, Master..............:.......34.70
Harry Platt, Sr. Warden
Normal Heights..........;.... No. 632.... Ralph B. Elm, Sr. Warden..................43.38
· Poinsettia...........................No. 633 .... Allan J. Morrison, Master......,.............30.10
Austin Allen Rice, Sr. Warden
Edwin L. Gardner, Jr. Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Master........30.10
Victorville..........................No. 634.... Ernest R. Hornby, Master..................40.88
Riverside ...•........................ No. 635 .... Clarence F. Neumann, Master..........38.20
John Marsha!L.................No. 636.... Clyde B. Austin, Master......................34.70
Arthur Wurtele, Grand Chaplain...... 34.70
Palisades ............................ No. 637.... Howard E. Riley, Sr. Warden ............34.70
Charles H. Foye, lnspector................34.70
Ira Danford, Past Master
Indian Rock...................... No. 638 ....,V. D. McAllister, Master
Melville H. Radke, Jr. Warden
E. R. Foster, Past Master
Composite ............•._............ No. 639.... Maurice Levi, Sr. Warden ..................34.70
Veritas ...............:................No. 640.... Charles N. Torok, Master
Winfield Attenborough, Sr. Warden
·Lorin Leroy Coats, Jr. Warden
Washington I. Kohnke, P . M. & Insp.
Chas. R. O'Donnell, Past· Master
Walter N. Lamore, Past Master
James A. Foshay............•. No. 641.. .. Alex M. Beamon, Sr. Warden............34.70
Clayton Hodge, Jr. Wa.rden
. La Cumbre........................ No. 642.... Reed Hoyt, Jr. Warden........................27.40
Alta_Lo~a ......................... No. 643 .... F. E. Rucker, Master............................34.70
E. F. N. Cruchley, Sr. Warden
Lomita...............•................No. 644.... S. C. Lindey, Master................ ~.............34.70
A. F. E. Irwin ................... No. 645 .... Robert B. Carstens, Sr. Warden........34.70

Metropolitan..................... No. 646....W. C. Montgomery, Master................34.70
James W. McDonald, Past Master
Hawthorne............;........... No. 647.... Frank W. Hawkins, Sr. Warden......34.70
Evan L. James, Past Master
Lawrence E. Henry, Past Master
Damascus.......................... No. 648.... Herbert W. Robbins, Master..............38.20
Flore.n ce.............................No. 649....John H. Ilsemann, Master..................34.70
La Brea.............................. No. 650., .. George F. Meitner, MasteL................34.70
John Wm. Swank, Sr. Warden
. C. B. Goodridge, Past Master
T. A. Heinold, Past Master
Menlo Park•...................... No. 651.... Herbert A. McKechnie, Master........ 1.80
James H. J. Brown, Sr. Warden
Chester B. Buckhout, Jr. Warden
J. Ross Hardy, Pas~ Master
Crescenta Valley.............. No. 652.... L. S. Percey, Sr. Warden......................34.00
Fontana........................;.....No. 653....Jess L. Bedwell, Jr. Warden................37.90
Richard E. Jacques, Past Master
Jordan .................................No. 654.... Henry G. Kihl, Master........................34.70
Leonard Gross, Inspecti:>r ....................34.70
Monte Vista.......................No. 655.... Harry E. Emery, Master....................34.70
Citrol...................................No. 656.... Arthur E. Branch, Master..................36.30
John D. Spreckels............ No. 657....John Thomas Martin, Master............43.38
Lynden A. Stevers, Sr. Warden
William W. Massie, Jr. Warden
Livingston ......................... No. 658 .... Earl L. Arnold, Sr. Warden................ 7.60
La Habra...............:........... No. 659.... Dessa L. King, Sr. Warden................ 36.10
Baldwin Park.................... No. 660.... G. R. Mayland, Sr. Warden ................36.00
Malta............................".......No. 661....Gideon S. Riggs, Master......................34.70
John W. Buchholz, Sr. Warden
John E. North, Past Master
Henry Knox ............- ........No. 662.... Joseph W. Cupp, Master ......................34.70
Raymond H. Cobb, Sr. Warden
Tracey S. Cox, Jr. Warden
Ojai..................................... No. 663.... Edward L. Byles, Master....................30.90
Kaweah .............................. No. 665 .... Carroll W. Pursell, Sr. Warden........ 19.50
William Starns, Past Master
DeWitt C. Cole, Past Master
Reseda................................No. 666.... Elgie G. Craig, Master..........................34.70
Meridian .............................No. 667.... Evert T. Little, Sr. Warden ................34.30
John R. Moore, lnspector..................34.70
San Gorgonio..............;..... No. 668 .... Raymond P. Kirby, Master..............41.60
John P. Jarman.................No. 669.... Ray Oscar Lattin, Sr. Warden............ 2.90
Guy M. Bemiss, Jr. Warden
Herbert Pritchard, Past Master
GreenleaL......................... No. 670....John Donald Tedrick, Master............35.60
Walter R. Wegner, Sr. Warden
San Clements.................... No. 671....William Holmes, Sr. Warden............39.56
Laguna Beach...................No. 672.... Leon C. Kirkes, Representative........38.20
Far West..............:............. No. 673 .... Rowland E. Mason, Master
Theodore G. Ewing, Jr. Warden
Dean Wilson, Past Master
Louis A. Gintzler, Past Master
Chris J. Christensen, Past Master
Al S. Sandell, Past Master

Z76

277

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Los Cerritos ...................... No. 674.... Sol. Jampoisky, Master........................34.70
·
Herbert C. Goldman, Past Master
Modesto..........c•••••••••••••••••• No. 675.: .. Edgar F. Wiens, Sr. Warden ............ 6.20
A. H. Raynor, Past Master
Willow Glen ...................... No. 676.... Wilbur G. Fleckner, Master ................. 2.90
Liberal Arts .............- ....... No. 677 .... Elvin C. Drake, Master ........................34.70
G. Ellsworth Meyer, Past Master......34.70
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master
Altadena........ ,........,........... No. 678....James A. Bowman, Master ................35.50
Bror G. Larson, Sr. Warden
Canby Cross ...................... No. 679 .... Luke McAnulty, Sr. Warden ..............34.30
CarmeL............................. No. 680 .... George A. Wishart, Master................ 7.50
Chas. A. Watson, Past Master
Dos Palos, ........................ No. 681.. .. Samuel E. Harris, Master.................. 8.40
Glenn Holmes, Sr. Warden
Richard L. Fortune, Jr. Warden
Bar'stow., .. ,......................... U. D ....... Samuel M. Davis, Master.................... 32.70
Paul B. Proctor, Sr. Warden
Redwood Empfre............U. D ....... Ray Ivan Giles, Master ...................... 16.20
Fred A. Vincent, Sr. Warden
'l'rona ...•................ :.............U. D . ...... Gale Haughton Jr., Master ................39.60
Louis SurrER,
RALPH E. SMITH,
ELLSWORTH MEYER,
ARREN E. LIBBY,
MARTIN L. GRIFFITH,

w

Conimittee.

Report adoptert.

279

ANNUAL ELECTION ·oF OFFICERS
The annual election of officers was now held, with the following result :
The R. ·. W. ·. Lloyd E. Wilson of Ingleside Lodge No. 630
was elected Grand Master.
The R.'. W.". Frank M. Smith of East Gate Lodge No. 290
was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". W.". Leslie E. Wood of Provident Lodge No. fm
was elected Senior Grand Warden.
W.". Claude H. Morrison of San Diego Lodge No. 35 was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
V.". w:. William P. Filmer of King Solomon's Lodge No.
260 was re-elected Grand Treas~rer.
V.". W.". John Whicher of King David's Lodge No. 209 was
re-elected Grand Secretary.
W.". \Valter Leonard of Oriental Lodge No. 144 was reelected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of the
appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Morris Goldstein of Fidelity Lodge No. 120.
Grand Orator, Henry C. Clausen of Ingleside Lodge No. 630.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant of San Fran- ·
cisco Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal, James K. Fisk of Charter Rock Lodge No.
410.
Grand Standard Bearer, Alex. D. Potts of Lodge le Progres
de l'Oceanie No. 371.
Grand Sword Bearer, Horace W. Rice of Marin Lodge No.
191.
Grand Bible Bearer, Thomas Edwards of Carquinez Lodge
No. 337.
Senior Grand Deacon, Harry F. White of Fresno Lodge
No. 247.
Junior Grand Deacon, Arthur Paulsen of Trinity Lodge
No. 27.
Senior Grand Steward, Charles E. Sones of EI Centro Lodge
No. 384.
•
Junior Grand Steward, Wilson 0. Wade of Redondo Lodge
No. 328.
Grand Pursuivant, Alvin W. Wendt of Moq~t Olive Lodge
No. 506.

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE · .

Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson of Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Ralph K. Marsha~l of Occidental Lodge No. 22.
The Grand Masteri-elect announced the appointment of Samuel E. Burke to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California, vice self, term expired.
The M.°. W.°. Dana R. Weller was appointed Master of
Ceremonies and the officers elect and appointed were installed
by the retiring Grand Master in due and ancient form.
The newly installed Grand Master then invested his predecessor with a Past Grand Master's lapel button and also invested
him with the apron of a Past Grand Master.
The Charles Albert Adams insignia was then transferred
from the retiring to the incumbent Grand Master and the other
chair officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
Dudley F. Black of Hollywood Lodge No. 355 then, in behalf
of Grand Lodge, presented the retiring Grand Master with a
beautiful grandfather clock.
Henry C. Clausen, in behalf of the members of Ingleside
Lodge No. 630, presented the newly installed Grand Master with
a gavel and gavel block, made from olive wood grown on Mount
Moriah.
·
At 1 :35 P. M., all business being completed, Grand Lodge
was closed in Ample Form.
·
Ll;-OYD E. WILSON,
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

STANDING COMMITTEES
(Masters and Wardens to be Appointed after December Elections)
Jurisprudence:
Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles.
John D. Murphey, Court House, Oakland.
Francis V. Keesling, de Young Building, San Francisco.
George L. Jones, Nevada City.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco.
John Stewart Ross, 117 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles.
Earl Warren, State Building, San Francisco.
Policy and General Purposes:
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
John W. Shenk, State Building, San Francisco.
Albert E. Boynton, 155 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
Will H. Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles.
Frank W. Mixter, Exeter.
Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
William B. Ogden, 1301 North Flores, Los Angeles.
Grievances:
Frank B. Belcher, 510 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco.
Louis Drapeau, Ventura.
Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt Hank Building, !::ian i"ranc1sco. ·
Dwight W. Stephenson, 906 California State Building, Los Angeles.
Finance:
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Frank C. Ruppel, 411 Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Raymond W. Blosser, 220 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco.
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Rollie W. Miller, Associated Realty Building, Los Angc!les.
Credentials:
Louis Sutter, Anglo-California National Bank, San Franciscu.
Ralph E. Smith, 587 Cypress A venue, Los Angeles.
Ellsworth Meyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
John Martin, 3111 Edith Lane, San Diego.
Stanley Chapman, 508 Chapman Building, Fullerton.
Charters:
Lee T. Mullen, 306 West Third Street, Los Angeles.
Henry Eissler, Bakersfield.
Lewis D. Collings, Washington Building, Los Angeles.
Walter F. Burbank, 540 No. Crescent Heights Boulevard, Los Angeles
Orlil Steele, Yreka.
By-Laws:
Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse, Riverside.
Julius Gabriel, 584 California Street, San Francisco.
Chas. Listenwalter, 375 Sou.th Rimpau Boulevard, Los Angeles.
Fred A. Kelsey, 1745 Gardner Street, Los Angeles.
Andrew R. Schottky, Mariposa.
tlenry C. Mack, Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield.

282

·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Pay of Members:
.
John W. Davey, 2090 Pacific Avenue, San Francisco.
Arnold Rumwell, 185 Edgewood Drive, Palo Alto.
. Lloyd C. Campbell, 4000 Whiteside Avenue, Los Angeles.
F. Wesley Davies, 9145 Orchard Avenue, Los Angeles.
Ralph M. King, Millford.
Accounts: (All San Franci!lco)
Thomas Anderson, 5 Montecito Avenue, San Fra·ncisco.
K. Saysette, 2690 Twenty-second Avenue, San Francisco.
Stephen J. Dean, 1643 Twenty-seventh Avenue, San Francisco.
James J. Yates, 120 Juanita Way, San Francisco.
Max J. Mertens, 226 Granville Way, San Francisco.
Returns:
Henry G. Mathewson, State Building, San Francisco.
Albert F. Ross, Redding.
William W. McKee, 326 Chapala Street, Santa Barbara.
Albert C. Wollenberg, 2748 Steiner Street, San Francisco.
Roy Buell, 140 New Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
Necrology:
Arthur H. ·Crim, Redlands.
Winston E. Squire, Eagle Rock.
Leon Loewenthal, 534 Battery Street, San Francisco.
Correspondence:
Jesse M. Whited, 467 Phelan Building, San Francisco.
Oscar Olson, 3419 Montecito, Fresno.
Glen Holmes, Dos Palos.
Frederick 0. Eaton, 781 LauFel Street, San Jose.
Frank Hoberg, Hoberg's, Lake County.
Grand Lodge Week Activities:
Alfred Breslauer, 111 Sutter Street, San Francisco.
Andrew Burke, Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Russell C. Horstmann, 1433 Madison Street, Oakland.
President East Bay Masters and Wardens Association.
President San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
San Francisco Inspectors.
Library:
(Committee to be appointed later.)
Clandestine Masonry:
Warren E. Libbey, 541 South Spring, Arcade Building, Los Angeles.
John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco.
Orla A. Pratt, Calexico.
Fred P. Roullard, Holland Building, Fresno.
Fred Spring, Odd Fellows Building, Sacramento.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

283

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Financing Building Projects:
William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco .
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Herbert C. Goldman, 1229 S. Orlanda Avenue, Los Angeles.
Ritual:
.
Walter Leonard, 1625 Portola Drive, San Francisco.
Gilbert C. De Forest, Redding.
.
Arthur M. Warren, Bank of California, Mission Branch, San Francisco.
Chester H. Warlow, Security First National :Sank, Fresno.
Sidney K. Lehman, 649 S. Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Masonic History:
Leon O. Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Bur!ingame.
Mark A. Sawrie, 1900 Central Tower, San Francisco.
W. C. Arbuckle, 988 Franquette Avenue, San Jose.
W. A. Chalfant, Bishop.
·
Roscoe L. Oark, M. D., 822 Forum Building, Sacramento.
Chas. E. Haas, Superior Court, Los Angeles.
Chas. R. Ingram, Grass Valley.
.
Wilson E. Newlon, 981 Miller Avenue, Berkeley.
Thomas Norris, Livermore.
David Tulloch, Oakdale.·
Guy Giffen, La Canada.
Millard W. Young, 1940 Ninth Avenue, Sacramento.
Martin C. Arthur, 730 San Benito Street, Hollister.
Masonic Education:
(Chairman to be appointed later.)
N. Perry Noerdyke, 311 Sout~ Spri~g. Street, L~s A~geles .
Delbert Berry, Bank of America Bu1ldmg, San • ranc1sco.
Reynold E: Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
Richard H. Chamberlain, 114 Manor Drive, Piedmont.
George C. Jensen, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Sacramento.
Rudolph Jenny, 5823 Patton Street, Oakland.
Public Schools Week:
.
Charles Albert Adams, Chairman, Monadnock Building, San ~ranc1sco.
Vaughan MacCaughey, Secretary, 155 Sansome Street, San Francisco.
Robert A. Odell, Chairman, So. Div., 524 Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles.
John B. Beman, Lo~ Angeles . .
Melvin E. Bowman, Santa Barbara.
John L. Compton, Bakersfield.
A. R. Clifton, Los Angeles.
Will C. Crawford, San Diego.
Percy R. Davis, Santa Monica.
Norman H. Farnham, Bakersfield.
Dr. Walter V. Goodfellow, Hollywood.
F. A. Henderson, Santa Ana.
·
Vierling Kersey, Los Angeles.
John A. Sexson, Pasadena.
Steadman G. Smith, Los Angeles.

284

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Trustees of Masonic Home:
Chas. M. Wollenberg, President, Laguna Honda Home, San Francisco.
James B. Gist, Vice-President, Security First National Bank, Sixth and
Spring Streets, Los Angeles.
Samuel E. Burke, 649 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Chas. Albert Adams, Humboldt Bank Build)ng, San Francisco.
-and the Deputy Grand Master and Senior and Junior Grand Wardens.

Charles E. Teach, San Luis Obispo.
Jesse W. Warner, Fresno.
Walter L. Bachrodt, San Jose.
Arthur H. Chamberlain, San Francisco.
Roy W. Cloud, San Francisco.
Virgil E. Dickson, Berkeley.
Elias E. Ellison, San Francisco.
C. Burnham Heryford, Ukiah.
Charles C. Hughes, Sacramento.
William F. Ewing, Oakland.
Wesley W. Kergan, Piedmont.
Frederick F. Martin, Chico.
Joseph P. Nourse, San Francisco.
William G. Paden, Alameda. ·

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUBHOUSES
Berkeley:, ·
Milton T. Farmer, Balboa Building, San Francisco.
Charles . Albert Adams, Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
Albert E. Boynton, 155 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
William P . Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
John D. Murphey, Court House, Oakland.
William B. Herms, 2032 Delmonte, Berkeley.
Waldo F . Postel, Kohl Building, San Francisco.
Carlisle D. Nielsen, 170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley.

Social Security and Unemployment Tax:
R. P. Wisecarver, 315 Mont'gomery Street, San Francisco.
James E. Hammond, Hunter-Dulin Building, San Francisco.
Walter Perry Johnson, 111 Sutter Street, San Franciso.
Lodge of Research :
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Leon 0. Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Burlingame.
G. Ellsworth Meyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles.

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
Endowment Board:
Frank M. Smith, Hall of Justice, Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Edmund A. Lockett, 522 South Raymond Street, Pasadena.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco.
Joe E. Shell, Southern Title Building, San Diego.
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
Harry F. White, Fresno.
Louis C. Drapeau, Court House, Ventura.
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Ernest G. Bashor, 600 Edwards-Wildey Building, Los Angeles.
Rollie W. Miller, Associated Realty Building, Los Angeles.
James T. Fraser, Eureka.
Ira D. Wheeler, Box 891, Santa Monica.
Carl E. Miller, Capitar National Bank, Sacramento.
Henry G. Hill, San Jose.
Board of Control:
Eugene S. Elkus, 485 California Street, San Francisco.
James R. Erskine, Box 974, Fresno.
Frank Tade, Farmers and Merchants Bldg.. Sacramento.
Ben Wright, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Wm. T. Wheeling, 2828 India Street, Los Angeles.

285

..

Los Angeles:
l3en G. Wright, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Elmer C. Beckman, 609 South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles.
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Thomas B. Buchanan, 515 West Seventh Street, Los Angeles.
Charles H . Dodds, 405 Hilgard A venue, Los Angeles.
Will H. Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles.
G. Ellsworth Meyer, 2071 Escarpa Drive, Los Angeles.
Marco R. Newmark, 977 Arapahoe Street, Los Angeles.
C. H. Robinson, 405 Hilgard A venue, Los Angeies.
John Stewart Ross, W. M. Garland Building, Los Angeles.
Clyde C. Shoemaker, 117 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles.
Dana R. Weller, 704 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Oscar Lawler, 605 West Olympic Building, Los Angeles.
John A. Klarquist, 618 South Western Avenue, Los Angeles.
William B. Ogden, 1301 North Fiores Street; Los Angeles.

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALl~ORNIA

287

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES
With Date of Charter•, Feea, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5940
Charter
Ami.
Mem·
l.odge
No.
Location
Issued Fees Fees Dues bera
1 California ----------- 1 San Francisco ------- 1850 100 20.00 12 577
2 Western Star --- - - - 2 Shasta - - - - - 1850
50
6.00 9 105
3 Tehama
1850
9 471
75 10.00
- 3 Sacramento
4 Benicia ------------- 5 Benicia --------- 1850
12 138
50
5 Tuolumne ---------- 8 Sonora -------------- 1850
75
2.00
9 201
6 Corinthian ---------------- 9 Marysville ------------- 1850
9 274
50
7 San Jose ---------------- 10 San Jose -----· ------ 1850
50
9 430
8 Yount --------------------- 12 Napa
60
12 269
--------- 1851
9 Nevada ------------------- 13 Nevada City -------- 1851
50
9 129
10 Temple----------------- 14 Sonoma ------------ 1851
40 2.00 12 111
_________________
__:_
16
11 Eureka
50
9 190
Auburn ---------------- 1851
12 La Parfaite Union ____ 17 San Francisco ------- 1852 100 15.00 12 133
Shade
________
18
13 Mountain
Downieville ------- 1852
30
40
9
14 San Joaquin -~----- 19 Stockton -------------- 1852
80
12 545
15 Washington --------- 20 Sacramento -------- 1852
75 10.00
9 512
16 Hawaiian --- - - - - - - 21 Honolulu, H. T, __ 1852
80 10.00 12 334
________
22
17 Occidental
San Francisco ------ 1852 100 25.00 12 736
18 Madison ----------- 23 Grass Valley
1853
53
10 203
19 Mariposa ----------- 24 Mariposa ------ 1853
50
9 159
20 Georgetown ------------ 25 Georgetown ------------ 1853
30
9
53
21 El Dorado - ------------ 26 Placerville ------------ 1853
5.op
9 178
50
22 Trinity ------------------ 27 Weaverville - - · - - 1853
5.00
50
9 101
23 Golden Gate ------------ 30 San Francisco ------- 1853
50 10.00 12 627
24 Gold Hill -------------- 32 Lincoln ------------- 1853
50
l.00
93
9
25 Ophir ----------------- 33 Murphy's --------------- 1853
50
4.00
9
49
26 San Diego -------------- 35 San Diego ------·-------- 1853
80
8.00 12 525
27 Howard ------------------ 37 Yreka ----------------- 1854
50
1.00
9 188
28 Santa Cruz -------------- 38 Santa Cruz ----------- 1854
80
l.00 12 329
29 Sacramento --------------- 40 Sacramento ----------- 1854
75 10.00 12 521
30 Martinez - - -- ----50
li 218
41 Martinez ------------ 1854
31 Los Angeles - - - - - 42 Los Angeles ---·------ 1854
50 10.00
9 680
75 20.00
32 Hiram - - - - - - - - - 43 El Dorado _ . ~ 1854
9
49
33 Mount Moriah - - - - - - 44 San Francisco ----- 1854 100 10.00 12 390
50
6.00
34 Crescent ------------ 45 Crescent City ---------- 1854
9 136
30
1.00
35 Texas :...________ 46. _San Juan---------------- 1854
9
41
36 Forbestown ----------- 50 Forbestown ------------- 1854
30
56
9
37 Illinoistown ---------------- 51 Colfax -------------------- 1854
50
9
70
38 Suisun-----------------·- 55 Suisun -------------------- 1855
50
12 126
39 Volcano ---------------- 56 Vo,cano ----------------- 1855
30
5.00
34
9
40 Santa Rosa ------------------ 57 Santa Rosa ------------- 1855
75
5.00
9 371
41 Union ------------------ 58 Sacramento ----------- 1855
9 515
75 10.00
42 Gravel Range ---------- -- 59 Camptonville --------- 1855
55
9
44
43 Plumas --------------- 60 Quincy --------------- 1855
50
2.50
9 102
50 10.00 12 906
44 Live Oak -------------61 Oakland -------------- 1855
________ 64
· Folsom ----------- 1855
50
5.00
45 Natoma
9 122
65 Jackson ---------- 1855
50
46 Amador --9
72
47 Forest ------------- 66 Alleghany ----------- 1855
50
9
44
48 Morning Star -------------- 68 Stockton -------------- 1855
80
12 419
5(J
49 Enterprise ---------------- 70 Yuba City -----------·- 1855
5.00 12 219
50 Bear Mountain ------------- 76 Angel's Camp -------· 1855
50
3.00
9
71
50
5.00
51 Calaveras --------- 78 San Andreas --------- 1855
9
78
75
18 315
52 Humboldt -------------- 79 Eureka ----------------- 1855
50
53 Ione --------------80 lone ----------------------- 1856
9
70
30
81 Yolo -------------------- 1856
9
53
54 Yolo
50
55 Vesper -------------- 84 Red Bluff --------------- 1856
9 160
50 10.00
56 Naval -------------- 87 Vallejo ------------------ 1856
9 620
50
5.00
57 Rose's Bar ------------ 89 Smartville ---------------- 1856
9
34

---

-~-------

---

MemAmi.
Charter
Issued Fees Fees . Dues hers
Location
Lodge
No.
51
9
5.00
35
58 North Star -------------- 91 Fort Jones ------------- 1856
78
1.00 12
50
59 St. Helena --------------- 93 St. Helena --"'----- 1856
52
9
60
60 Henry Clay -------~-- 95 Sutter Creek ------- 1856
86
65 10.00 10
61 Hornitos ------------- 98 Hornitos ------------ 1856
12 250
50
99 Merced --------------- 1856
62 Yosemite
63
9
50
101 Dutch Flat-------- 1856
63 Clay -------5.00 12 245
50
103 Oroville ---------- 1856
64 Oroville
9 190
1.00
55
04 El Monte ------- 1856
65 Lexington
9 188
3.00
55
1857
06 Arcata ~-------66 Arcata
___
....
__ _.
50 10.00 15 229
1857
Watsonville
110
67 Pajaro .:._
________
_.....
_ _ _ _ _111
50 10.00 12 313
1857
Chico
68 Chico
42
9
5.00
50
.:__112 Knight's Ferry ------- 1857
69 Summit
12 198
50
1857
70 Eden ---~-----------1 13 San Leandro
9 238
75 10.00
71 Concord _:_ _ _ _.....-117 Sacramento ---------- 1857
Fidelity_ _ _ _ _ _ _120 San Francisco -------- 1858 100
5.00 15 535
72
73 . Alamo ___________________122 Walnut Creek ------- 1858
5.00 12 140
50
5.00 12 148
75
74 Sot~ome _________l23 Healdsburg ------- 1858
94
9
1.00
1858
80
75 Tab e Mountain_ _ _ _l24 Cherokee
9 177
1858
50
76 La Fayette _ _ _ _ _ _l26 Sebastopol
50 10.00 12 197
27 San Francisco ---- 1858
77 Hennann
8.00 12 314
1859
50
128 Visalia
78 Viaalia-.
94
9
5.00
50
129 ' Wheatland - - - 1859
79 Nicolaua
9 108
5.00
50
131 Woodbridge ----- 1859
80 Woodbridge
85
9
5.00
50
132 Greenville ------- 1859
81 Sincerity
9 142
75
134 Vacaville -------- 1859
82 Vacaville
Valley
_____
70
9
50 12.00
35 Linden ------------ 1860
83
136 San Francisco ------ 1860 100 20.00 12 606
84 Pacific __
Crockett
___________
139
75 25.00 12 589
San Francisco ------ 1860
85
69
9
75
1860
140 Cloverdale
86 Curtia ______
65
9
5.00
30
87 Grafton.___________ 141 Knights Landing _____ 1860
95
1.00 18
75
88 Franlclin._ _ _ _ _143 Courtland ------ 1861
89 Oriental ________l44 San Francisco -------~- 1861 100 25.00 12 408
9
95
1.00
30
1861
90 Vitruviua ________l45 Bloomneld
8.00 12 148
50
- - 1 4 6 Ukiah ---------- 1861
91 Abell
9 164
50
147 Fortuna -------- 1861
92 Eel River
9 152
60 12.00
1862
149 Susanville
93 Lauen
1.00 12 112
50
94 Molino _ _ _ _ _ _ _ l50 Tehama --------- 1862
9 243
50
95 W oodland ______________ l 56 Woodland --.--- 1863
25
30 10.00 12
1863
96 Keystone ___________l61 Milton
9
15
5.00
30
97 Harinonf- - - - -------164 Sierra City ------------- 1864
50 20.00 12 505
98 Excelslor___________ _;, ____ 166 San Francisco --------- 1864
5.00 12 128
50
1864
99 Alameda ·------------------ --167 Centerville
1.00 18 280
50
100 Redwood City___________ l68 Redwood Ci;·=.~~~~= 1864
Misaion ___________ ______l69 San Francisco ------- 1864 100
5.00 12 683
101
9 116
50 10.00
102 Elk Grove _; ________________ ...173 Elk Grove ---·---------· 1865
9
29
5.00
30
1865
103 DrylrJwu, ______________ 174 Plymouth
5.00 12 138
50
1865
104 Antioch _______________l75 Antioch
3.00
9 459
55
178 San Bernardino ______ 1866
105 Phoeniz ____
5.00
9 115
50
106 Mendocino._ _ _ _ _ _179 Mendocino ~------ 1866
9 261
5.00
80
107 Petaluma ___ _ _ _-180 Petaluma - - - - - 1866
1.00
9
90
50
108 Russian River _ _ _ _l81 Windsor --~-:- 1866
71
l.00 12
50
109 Arbuclcle ______________ l82 Arbuckle -------- 1867
42
50 10.00
9
110 Clear Lalce ______ _ _ _l83 Lower I.alee ----------- 1867
32
50
9
1867
111 Sierra Valley______ l84 Sierraville
50
5.00 12
51
112 Claiborne ________________ _ _ 185 Point Arena --------- 1867
50
41
9
113 Evening Star..____________ 186 Etna Mills ---------- 1867
50
l.00 15 137
1868
87 Gilroy
114 Keith _____________
50
1.00 12 764
1868
115 Oakland ________________ l88 Oakland
78
35
3.00
9
1868
116 Northern Light___ _ _l90 Millville
80
12 430
117 Marin.___________191 San Rafael ------------· 1868
75
15 210
118 Santa Barbara.___________192 Santa Barbara --------- 1868

--

__
__

------------

-----

-----

---..---------

---------------------

______H

_______

----------------------------------------

•

288

PROCEEDINGS' OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Femdale..•________ 193
Mountain View______________ l94
Buckeye_______________ l95
San Simeon_____________ l 96
Wilmington________ l98
Hartley
199
Truckee_________ 200
Silveyville___________ _ 201
Pentalpha___________ 202
Confidence_________•_ _ _203
Salinas_________--204
Olivet______
05
Stanislaus_ ___ _________..206
Anaheim _ _ _ _ _-2.07
Rio Viata_
208
King David's
.•209
Friendship
210
San Benito..
-211
So. San Francisco___ _ _212
San Buenaventura_ _ _ 214
Oak Grove______ _ -215
Doric____
216
141 Monterey___________..217
142 Moaaic_______:__...:__218
143 Speranza ltaliana__ _ _z19
20
144 Downey_______
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140

Location

Charter
Issued

Ferndale ·--------------- 1869
Mountain View___
1869
Winters ---- - ----- 1869
Cambria -·---- -- 1869
Wilmington - ---- 1869
Lakeport ·------- - 1869
Truckee ·------------ 1869
Dixon - -- ---- ----- 1869
Los Angeles_________ 1869
Castroville --------- 1869
Salinas - - - --------- 1869
Corning ·-- - - - 1870
Modesto --- -- --- 1870
Anaheim -·- - - - - 1870
Rio Vista ----- - - -- - 1870
San Luis Obispo_____ 1870
San Jose __
· - - ---- 1871
Hollister - - ------ 1871
San Francisco -------- 1871
Ventura --- - -- - 1871
Alameda -------------- 1871
San Francisco ___ 1871
Monterey --- - - -- 1871
Livermore ------- 1872
San Francisco -------- 1872
Downey ---·---·-· 1872
221· Independence --~-···- 1872
145 Inyo________
146 Roseville ____~---222 Roseville --- --------- 1912
147 Bakersfield __________224 Bakersfield
1873
148 . Broolclyn_______________ _....225 East Oalcland __________ 1873
149 San Mateo ________________-226 San Mateo ------ 1873
28
150 Athens _ _____•___..:.
Davis ----------- 1873
151 Solano -------- 29 Vallejo - ----- -1873
152 North Butte_ _, ______z30 Gridley -------- ----- 1873
31 Covelo ··------------· 1874
153 Covelo______
154 Janesville __________ _ .___ 23 2 Lassen -- ------------- 1874
155 Calistoga.. ___________ 233 Calistoga - ----------- 1874
156 Hope _______________z34 Beckwith ------ --- 1874
157 Surprise Valley________ --235 Cedarville ------ ------- 1874
159 Hill's Ferry________________.236 Newman ----- - - - - 1874
159 Guadalupe.__ ___________23 7 Guadalupe -- - --- 1874
160 Colusa ..__________ _____z40 Colusa ------------ 1875
161 Santa Ana ___ ___ _241 Santa Ana ----·- 1876
162 Magnolia ___ ____ _ _242 Santa Barbara
1876
163 Eucalyptus
_ 243 Haywards ------------ 1876
A!Catraz
_
_
____
______
__z44
164
West Oakland ------- 1877
165 LaureL___________.245 Willows -----~---·- 1877
Pomona
___________
.:_
____
246
166
Pomona ----------- 1877
167 Fre.Do ______________ 247 Fresno ------------- - 1878
Alturas
______________
248
168
Alturas --------- ---- 1878
169 Adin _______________~_250 Adin -·---·------- - - - 1878
170 Landmark _____ ____ ....253 Esparto -·----- ----- 1879
171 Reading ._____________254 Redding -------------- 1879
172 Welcome ________ _____ 255 Lemoore ------------ 1879
.-256 Lodi - - ----- ------- 1879
173 LocfL_______
174 Penrhyn _________________258 Penrhyn ----------------- 1880
175 Evergreen._________________259 Riverside -------------- 1880
176 King Solomon's______________260 San Francisco ------ 1880
177 Tuscan ___________________ 261 Williams ------------ 1880
178 Lomj>OC_________________:i62 Lompoc --------- 1881
179 Hesperian..__ - · _ _ _264 Santa Maria ---~- 1882

Fees

50
50
30
30
80
30
60
60
50
40
75
50
50
50
75
80
50
30
75
50
75
100

75
50
105
30
50
50
100
50
50
30
50
50

35
50
30
50
50
50
75
75
50
50
50
50
80

40
70

35
50

50
50
30
50
50

Lodge

Feea Dues ben ·

5.00
5.00
20.00

12.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
10.00
35.00
5.00
2.50

4.50
10.00

40
50

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Mtm·

Ami.

5.00

1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00

289

9
9
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
12
12
16
12
12
9
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
18
9
9
12

128
175
100
97
289 166
104
123
553
26
307
93
353
242
93
304
516
131
224
281
535
472
142
132
353
199
75
268
424
536
231
117
419
120
9 49
9
62
9
71
9
65

9

51

9
94
9
52
12 148
1.00 12 430
3.00 15 249
5.00 12 251
9 471
10.00
5.00 12 162
3.00 12 283
3.00 9 560
1.00 12 134
15
59
88
1.00 9
8.00 12 176

10.00

9

108

9
3.00
9
12
15.00 12

283
96
476
578
83
106
238

50

12

50
50

1.00 9
1.00 12

180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213

214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223

224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
. 235
236
237
238
239
240

No.

Orland ___________________265
North EasL.____ ___________266
Galt __________ _ ______267
Durant------------ - - - -- -268
Olive Branch ---~--------269
Snow Mountain ___________z71
Pasadena~-------------------272
.t\nchor ____ ______.:_____.2.73
Arroyo._ _ _ _________-274

OakdaJe __________ _275
_______________________ ,z77
Southern California ______278
Hanford __________________ _ 279
Madera ______________ ___280
Mount Shasta..__________281
Callayomi.:__________ _____282
South West __________:__;___:._283
San MigueL___________ 285
Paso Robles ___________ 286
Winnedumah ____________ 287
Maxwell __________,________ 288
Elsinore __________ ____ __ 289
East Gate ____________290
Santa Paula ________ _____291
Los Gatos --------~-292
Oran~e Grove _____ ________ 293
Tra\1er__ ________________294
Mt. Jaclcaon _________ _ 295
Silver Gate ________________296
Dunsmuir______________________297
S~lma

Liberty •--------·----------299
Redlands _________________--300
Ontario ____________________JOl
Santa Lucia._____ __302
Porterville _______ _ _ _--303
Reedley_ __ _ ___.J04
Azusa..
_305
Ashlar __________________306
Santa Monica ___________J07
Monrovia ..____________________J08
Delano____________________--309
Sisson ·------~-----..:__ __ _J 10
Los Banoe..__________------"---3 12
TehachapL______ _ . J 13
TemescaL_____________J 14
Norwallc ____________.J 15
Sanger ..__________ _J 16
Fallbrook._________ ____ _317
Emmanuel ------···--------- -318
Hollenbeck._____________________319
South Gate'._____ _ ___320
Alisa!--------------321
Alhambra ________________J22
Whittier___ _ _____J23
Corona___
24
Consuelo______ _ __-325
Needles _____________J26
Long Beach_ ___.J27
Redondo .._____
28
Vallee de France____J29
Kilauea-----·
330

Location

Charter
Issued

Orland ------------------- 1882
Fort Bidwell ---------- 1882
Galt ------------ ------- 1883
Berkeley ----------- 1883
Tulare ----------- 1883
Stony Ford -------- 1884
Pasadena --·- -------- 1884
Compton -------------- 1884
Arroyo Grande ------- 1884
Oakdale ----·------------ 1884
Selma ------------------ 1885
Los Angeles- ------------ 1885
Hanford ---------- 1885
Madera ----------- ---- 1885
Anderson ---------- 1886
Middletown ----------- 1887
National City ------- 1887
San MigueL_ _____ 1887
Paso Robles ________:_____ 1887
Bishop ------------·----- 1887
Maxwell -------------- 1888
Elsinore --·-·--·------·- 1888
Los Angeles ------------- 1888
Santa Paula _______ 1888
Los Gatos ---------- 1888
Orange -------------- 1889
Kingsburg ------------ 1889
Guerneville ---·--------- 1889
San Diego --------------· 1889
Dunsmuir --------------- 1889
Santa Clara ___________ 1890
Redlands ------------- 1890
Ontario ------------- 1890
Kings' City ----------- 1890
Porterville ·--------- 1890
Reedley ------------------ 1891
Azusa -------------------- 1891
Colton ----------------- 1891
Santa Monica ---------- 1891
Monrovia --------------- 1891
Delano -----·-·------------ 1892
Mount Shasta
1892
Los Banos -------- 1892
Tehachapi --------- 1892
Corona ---------------- 1893
Norwalk ·----------------- 1893
Sanger ------------------- 1893
Fallbrook ------------- 1893
Biggs -------···- ----------- 1893
Los Angeles.- --------- 1894
Los Angeles ------------ 1894
Pleasanton - - ---- 1894
Alhambra --- ---- 1894
Whittier -·---------- 1895
Pasadena ------------ 1895
Escondido ------------ 1895
Needles -------------- 1896
Long Beach ---------- 1896
Redondo ------------- 1897
Los Angeles ---- -----·- 1897
Hilo, H. T ..____________ 1897

Fees

Ami.

Fees

2.00
50
5.00
30
30
80 10.00
50
1.00
30
. 50
80
6.00
35
1.00
50
50 12.00
50 15.00
50
50
3.00
30
5.00
30
50
1.00
30 10.00
50
3.00
50
50
30
50 10.00
50
50
75
1.00
50
30
80
50
50

75
50

40
50
50
50
50
80
50
50
50

75
75
50
30
50
30
50
50
50
50
50
50
70
50
75

9
9
9
9
18
9
12
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
12
9
20

9

109
51
64
558
195
39
454
253
78
118
137
492
144
167
56

55
160
50
117
105
48
108
740
254
201
190
101
120

12
9
15
12
12
10
12
12 557
12 194
9 220
9 331
9 211
24
97
9 311
9 130

12 147
9
12
12
9
2.00
1.00

2.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

8.00
1.00

80

60

50
50

MemDues hers

12.00

9
12
9
12
9
9
9

9

164
237
213
159
64
111
145
132
116
175

52
74

9 1083
9 604
9 109
9 384
9 446
12 461
9 154
12 211
9 490
12 196
12 123
12 185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lod11e

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

Aftll.

Fees

Fees Dues

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Memhen

~

9 155
241 Pacific Grove _ _ _.:__..J3 l Pacific Grove______ 1897
35
12 439
242 San Pedro
--332 San Pedro ------- 1897
80
61
5.00 9
243 Alta---53
33 Bridgeport --------- 1897
9 195
50
244 Covina..____________ _ _334 Covina ---------- 1898
West
Gate.
________
-335
15 775
245
75
Los Angele•·----- 1899
246 Fruitvale______________.J36 Oakland --·- - -- 1899
50 10.00 32 756
Carquinez
_________
-337
12 151
Crockett -···------ - 1899
50
247
·9 79
50
248 San Jacinto______-338 San Jacinto ___________ 1899
_______
..339
Fullerton
12 340
50
249
Fullerton ---------- 1900
41 Oxnard ------- 1901
1.00 12 220
250 Omard ......
30
50.
9 240
251 San Fernando
343 San Fernando ___ 1902
252 Starr King ___ _-344 San Francisco _ _ 1902 100 10.00 12 520
12 76
30
253 Brenrwood_ _ _ _ _ _.345 Brentwood · - - - 1902
4.50 9 443
54
254 Palo Alto _ _ _ _ _ _J46 Palo Alto -------- 1902
47 Richmond ---- - - 1902
9 301
75
255 McKinley_
5.00 9 500
256 San BemardinC?-- ---.348 San Bernardino __ 1902
55
1.00 12 869
50
257 Sequoia _____________-349 Oakland - - - - - - 1902
75 10.00 12 497
258 Palestine______________.] 51 Los Angele•- - - - 1903
12 377
50
259 Sumet ____________..J52 Los Angeles _ _ _ 1903
12 125
50
353 Pinole -------- ---- 1903
260 Pinole ..
54 San Francisco---- ·-·· 1903 100 20.00 12 520
261 Presidio________
1903
1.00 9 775
50
262 Hollywood_________355 Hollywood
15 299
56 Mill Valley ·------ 1903
80
263 Mill Valley___
9 127
30
264 Buena Parle.____________.] 57 Buena Park - ------ 1903
9 812
50
265 Golden State ______.358 Los Angeles. - - 1904
9 71
50
266 Loyalton--~--------359 Loyalton -------- - - 1904
12 33-:i
267 San Francisco ________-360 San Francisco ------- 1904 100
96
5.00 9
50
268 Fort Bragg ______...361 Fort Bragg --------- 1904
9 106
75
269 Charity_________ J62 Campbell - - - - 1904
5.00 12 488
50
63 Berkeley - - - - - 1904
270 Berkeley____
1.00 9 127
50
271 Willits _____________-365 Willits -------------- 1905
3.00
9 612
80
272 Las Palmas------------------366 Fresno - ------------ 1905
South
Pasadena
_
___
1905
70 12.00 10 480
273 South Pasadena__ _______-367
Unity
____
,
______________
368
12 342
50
Glendale - - - - - - 1905
274
12 333
80
Ocean Park - ----- 1905
Ocean ____
275 AIJlity
Parlc
.... -------------.369
_______________
_J70 San Francisco ---·- 1905
5.00 12 450
50
276
80 10.00 12 362
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie_.371 Honolulu, H. T ~-_: 1905
5.00 9 148
55
278 Gardena ______________.372 Gardena ----------- 1906
3.00 12 188
80
279 West Los Angelea____.373 West Los Angeles .... 1906
50 25.00 12 132
280 }ewel__________________-374 San Francisco - ----· 1906
50 10.00 12 553
281 Richmond ......______ _375 San Francisco - --- 1906
5.00 12 193
75
282 Francis Dralce ____--376 So. San Francisco.- 1906
9 78
50
1906
283 Artesia ______ __....377 Artesia
50 15.00 12 350
284 Mizpah ________ _ _.378 Los Ang;i;~=== 1906
1.00 15 150
50
379 Fillmore ---------- 1906
285 Fillmore________
9 239
50
286 Huntington Beach ___-380 Huntington Beach .. _ 1906
9 116
50
287 Oceanside __________ ______J8 l Oceanside ------- 1906
75 20.00 12 420
288 Highland Parlc_________.382 Los Angeles ··---- 1907
15
79
50
289 OrosL____________...383 Orosi - --···------ 1907
12 295
75
290 El Centro____ ----384 El Centro ------------ - 1907
50 .
9 166
291 Dinuba ......-------------.385 Dinuba --··-------------- 1907
12 260
292 Coalinga .....---···--·--387 Coalinga ··----- -------- 1907 100
12 624
293 Parnassus ··-·---------·-- -388 San Francisco ------- 1907 100 10.00 9 511
75
294 Palos Verdes._____ ___ 389 Long Beach ------ 1907
50 10.00 12 69
...390 Imperial ··------- 1908
295 Imperial·------5.00 9 62
50
.....391 Tuolumne -- --·- - ··-· 1908
296 East Belt .. _.
50 50.00 9 954
92 Los Angeles -------· 1908
297 West Lalce_
50 20.00 12 462
393 San Francisco -----· 1908
298 Balder ____
Los Angeles ____ 1908
12 484
50
Universitr----~94
299
12 173
80
Turloclc
__________
-395
Turlock
····----1908
300
1.00 12 362
75
______
Apollo
Alameda
··--------1908
'
396
301

--.

291

Lodge

302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361

No.

Rising Light_____
397
Fratemity________399
Burlingame_____ __ 400
Bay \tiew_____________________.,401
Brawley____________402
Yerba Buena·----------.403
Glendora.•---------.404
Moneta·-------------405
Burbanlc _____________406
La Mesa ___________407
Sierra Madre.....c.______408
Honolulu ________409
Charter Rock_ ____ 410
Perrit ----~--------- 411
Calexico ___
412
Waucoba
413
Arlington
414
Silver Trowel_ _ _ _ 415
Lindsay_______________416
Clovis.____________417
Elysian _______________.418
Upland ..______________________ 419
Kerman·-----··--------------.420
Inglewood ------------------··421
Eagle Roclc _____________422
Y orlc_______________423
Exeter·-------·------424
Holtville_·_________________425
Midway --------------426
Chino V atley_______.,427
San Dima•---·--------428
Pittsburg _______________4 29
McCloud ________________430
Alpha __________431
Hammonton ____________-433'
Madcopa _________________.434
Fairmount________ _ _ _435
Claremont__________436
Lancaster______________ __437
Acacia----------·----~438

Tyrian ________.439
Standard ______________-440
Coronado _____~---·441
Blaclcmer__ _ _ _ _ _ 442
Schofield_____ _ _ 443
Carpinteria_____ _ __ 444
Wilshire ·------------·445
La Puente ..__________ :446
Torrance---·-------·------ 447
Mt. Diablo___________________-448
Park ·-···-·--··---·------·---449
Van Nuys·-------------··----··-450
:451
Montebello ---San Pasqual_______ _ 452
Bethlehem ____________453
Crocker . ·----···--·--454
Golden WesL.__________455
4'7
Ramona ·--- -. __ 458
Henry S. Orme-Riverbanlc------~---:459

Location

Charter
Issued

Huntington Parle..._ 1908
San Jose ----- - 1908
Burlingame
1908
Oakland - ----·-·------ 1909
Brawley ------------ ---- 1909
Oakland --- ---···--· 1909
Glendora ---------- 1909
Los Angeles.________ 1909
Burbanlc --------------- 1909
La Mesa ---------·------· 1910
Sierra Madre ............ 1910
Honolulu - - - - - 1910
Berkeley ------- 1910
Perris --------- 1910
Calexico ---------- 1910
Big Pine -- - - - - - 1910
Los Angeles ______ 1910
Los Angeles _________ 1910
Lindsay --------·-- 1910
Clovis ---------- 1910
Loa Angeles ..........._ 1910
Upland --------···--·-·· 1911
Kerman ---------------- 1911
Inglewood --·-------· 1911
Eagle Rock - - ---- 1911.
Los Angeles _______ 1912
Exeter -------------- 1912
Holtville ---------- 1912
Taft - - - - - - - 1912
Chino -- - - - - - - 1912
San Dimas _______ 1912
Pittsburg ---------- 1912
McCloud ----------- 1912
Richmond -------·--·- 1912
Hammonton --------- 1913
Maricopa --------------- 1913
San Francisco - ·····--- 1913
Claremont ---------- 1913
Lancaster ·-------·----- 1913
Los Angeles ...........:.. 1913
Manteca - ------..------ 1913
Oakland
1914
Coronado --~=::::::_--=: 1914
San Diego -·-- -··--- 1914
Schofield Barracks,
H. T. - - - - 1914
Carpinteria ----·----- 1914
Los Angeles ---·-··- 1914
Puente--~------ 1914
Torrance ------- 1914
Concord ----------- 1914
San Francisco .......... 1914
Van Nuys
1914
Montebello ----·---· 1914
Pasadena ------- - · 1914
San Francisco _ ___ 1915
Daly City . ---·-··------ 1915
1915
San Francisco
Monterey Parle.___ 1915
Los Angeles_.________ 1915
Riverbanlc ----- -------- 1915

Fees

Allll.

Fees

MemDues hen

50
50
50
5.00
50
75
80 25.00
60
50
50
3.00
50
50
80 10.00
5.00
80
3.00
30
5.00
50
30
50
5.00
75
50
50
5.00
80
3.00
50
80
3.00
80
50
80
50
75
50
50
35
1.00
75
50
75
50
50 . 20.00
50
50
60
6.00
50 10.00
50
50
50
80

12
9
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
9
9
12
12
9
10
9
9
12
12
9
10
9
12
9
12
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9

532
369
388
307
123
434
94
617
260
147
. 84
221
371
76
132
4?
296
301
145
232
412
133
50
288
257
173
152
91
342
56
94
147
102
389
68
153

so · 5.00

9
9
12
9
15
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

195
74
513
66
200
157
424
252
230
341
297
285
451
209
523
81

50
75
50
50
80
75
50
50
70
50
50
50
50
75
30

1.00
10.00
3.00
3.00
15.00
3.00
10.00

477
97
114
67
89
295
167
510

.

292

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Charter
Lodge
No.
Location
Issued Fees
Oso
..
__________
460
362 Mount
Tracy ---------------- 1916
80
363 Argonaut ____________461. San Francisco ------- 1916
80
Paul
Revere
_
___________
462
364
San Francisco ------ 1916 100
365 Morgan Hi!L___________463 Morgan Hi(( ________ 1916
50
Alta
Vista
_________
464
366
San Francisco _____ 1916
75
Center
________________
465
367
Fresno ·------------------ 1916
80
368 Libertas ____________466 BakersfieId ----- ------- 1917 100
Culver
Cicy
__________
467
City
_______
1917
Culver
369
75
370 Rockridge -----__468 Oakland ------------ 1917
50
371 Yorba Linda-------------469 Yorba Linda ---···· 1918
50
Lincoln
..
____
_
_
_
_
__
470
San Francisco ·--- - 1918 100
372
__________
471
Delta
373
80
Stockton -·······-··---- 1918
374 Maui ____________472 Kahului, H. T. _ ____ 1918
50
375 Blythe_. _________473 Blythe --··-···---~- 1919
50
Victory
______________
474
376
San Francisco ----·· 1919
65
377 American ..__._______475 Los Angeles ____________ 1920
75
378 Coachella_ _ _ _ _476 Coachella --------- - 1920
75
379 Temblor ··------------477 Fellows ------------- 1920
50
380 Thousand Oaks..______478 Berkeley ------------- 1920
75
381 Golden Rule ______479 San Jose ----·----·--· 1920
75
382 Fellowship --------480 Oakland ------------ ---- 1920
50
383 Mt. Davidson .._______481 San Francisco ----··- 1920
75
384 Clarence F. Smith____.482 Los Angeles._________ 1920
50
385 Bell _____
483 Bell ------------------- 1920
50
386 Albert Pike ______484 Los Angeles ..........- .. 1920
50
. ___485 Chowchilla ------------- 1920
387 Chowchilla _____
50
388 Caledonia_.____________486 Bakersfield --------·- 1920
75
389 Vallejo_____________487 Vallejo --------------- 1920
50
Patterson
______________
488
390
50
Patterson ·-······---- 1920
East
Bay.
____________
489
391
South Berkeley --···· 1920
75
392 Corcoran ____________490 Corcoran ------------ 1920
75
Woodstock
_______________
491
393
50
Alameda ····-··---- -- 1920
Garvanza
..
______________
492
Los
Angeles
_
_
_
______
394
1920
75
395 Atascadero _________493 Atascadero ------------ 1920
50
Acorn
__
_
_
_
____________
_494
396
Oakland ----------· 1920
80
Lebanon
..
_______________
495
397
San Francisco --······ 1921 100
398 Riverdale.___________ _496 Riverdale ------··- 1921
55
..
__________
497
Fremont
Oakland -------------- 1921
399
50
__________
498
Stockton
400
80
Stockton - -····· -····- 1921
Capital
Cicy
______
499
401
Sacramento ----···--- 1921
75
402 Roosevelt _ ____________.500 San Francisco--·-·· 1921
80
W
estwood.
_______________
_501
403
Westwood ·-·--···· 1921
35
Harbor
_____
.
_____
__502
404
75
Richmond ····-····-···· 1921
405 Point .
-503 Richmond ····------· 1921
75
406 Seaside ··--------·-'04 Long Beach ___________ 1921
80
407 Silver Cord ______505 Santa Ana --------- 1921
50
408 Mount Olive_______--506 Los Angeles ····--···· 1921
75
409 El Segundo__
07 El Segundo --------·- 1921
50
410 Joppa __________
08 San Joaquin ________ 1921
50
411 Benjamin Franklin______J09 Los Angeles________ 1921
50
412 Cupertino _____
10 Cupertino ··---------· 1921
50
413 Sunnyvale____
11 . Sunnyvale ··------- 1921
50
414 Palms _____________.512 Palms ------------ ----- 1921
50
415 Cahuenga _____
513 Los Angeles ·--- -···-· 1921
50
416 Argonne . ____________514 San Francisco ···--·· 1922 100
417 Vernon Square ________ '.> 15 Los Angeles ------··· 1922
50
418 Taft--·····---- -·_____516 Taft ------------------- 1922
50
419 Mount Vemon __________ 517 San Francisco ____.:____ 1922
80
1922
420 La Jolla.___________________ 518 San Diego
85
421 Euclid ···----------·--- 519 Los Angeles ------······ 1922
50
422 Ionic____
20 Los Angeles ··----···-·· 1922
50

MemFees Dues bel'll
6.00 12 194
12 349
10.00 12 460
1.00 9 100
12 269
9 335
12 254
12 188
5.00 12 346
12 90
10.00 12 264
12 297
12 131
5.00 9
44
15.00 12 203
25.00 12 357
84
9
15 119
5.00 13 310
9 377
1.00 12 194
18 291
9 256
9 210
15.00 12 201
1.00 12 72
12 182
2.50 9 233
2.00 12 69
10.00 12 254
10.00 12 72
1.00 12 172
10 157
5.00 9 62
10.00 12 351
10.00 12 297
60
2.50 12
LOO 12 296
12 124
10.00 9 191
5.00 12 138
10.00 9 196
9 158
84
9
12.00 10 297
LOO 12 286
10.00 9 590
9 170
50
5.00 9
12 204
9
75
9 113
4.50 9 183
5.00 9 316
5.00 12 328
9 351
12 173
10.00 12 201
12 118
9 243
10.00 9 294

293

AM!.

No.

Lodge

423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
456
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
4.71
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483

Piedmont________________521
Sunrise •....----------- 522
Bellflower._______________ 523
Catalina-Island _______524
George Washington .•_______525
Bay Cicy __________________.___ 526
Covenant ----------··--------527
Beverly Hills _________________528
Loyalcy..____________________ 529
Sun Garden--·······-------530
Alexandria _____________531
Smyma ...________________53 2
Azure -······---------····-·--·-·-'33
Forest Hill ....----······------534
Alexander Ha~ilton .. ____535
Seal Rock _______________..536
Utopia __________-537
Ascot.._________538
Belvedere...________539
Queen Beach_._____________ 540
Henry Morse Stephens._ _541
Lankershim ______________ 542
Signal _________________543
Glendale ..________544
Jonathan ····-·-····---···---·-S45
San Gabriel..__________________ 546
Arcadia ..
--547
Triangle---··----------548
Justice -········--·--·-·····---549
Seaport....-- - ------------550
Lakeshore --------------·- 551
Semper Virens ____.:..______552
Educator.___________554
White Pine ....·-----·······----555
Fairfax ······-··-··- ·- ····---556
Hermosa ---- -----------557
Point Firmin ....------------.558
Craftsman -----------------559
Plymouth ------------------560
East San Diego ...·--········---561
Pyramid ·····-········------562
South Park ·- ·· -------563
Foothill ·····-··-·---------564
West Adams ---···-···-------565
James A. Garfield ____________.566
Searchlight ······-········--567
Park Boulevard -------------568
Chateau Thierry.________)69
Military Service -------------570
Francis K. Shattuck.__________571
James Madison _____________ 572
Hillcrest
· ··--·············- 573
S. W . Hackett.---··-··---574
Fort Crook ··-······-··········-575
El Cajon Valley____________.... 576
Sunnyside ···-···········-------'77
P-rogressive ---·-·····-····----.578
Warren G. Harding .......-..579
Santa Maria -·----····------580
Securicy______________________.581
4 • •_ _ _ _ _
•

Rialto ·····-·--------------·····-'----582

Charter
Aftll.
Mem·
Location
Issued Fees Fees Dues bers
Piedmont ·--------·-- 1922
80
5.00 12 214
Los Angeles _________ 1922
50
10 176
Bellflower -------------- 1922
9 153
50
Avalon --------------- 1922 100
12 102
San Francisco ------- 1922
50 10.00 12 266
San Francisco ----·---- 1922 100 10.00 12 211
Los Angeles -······-·-- 1922
50
9 265
Beverly Hills _________ 1922
5.00 12 238
75
Los Angeles ----·-····· 1922
75
9 232
Fresno -----·-········-- 1922
80
9 352
San Francisco -·-······ 1922
50
5.00 12 119
Ceres ··········-·······-··-· 1922
70
9 49
Fullerton ···--····-· 1922
50
12 177
San Francisco ---···· 1922
55 10.00 12 97
Los Angeles --····- 1922
50
1.00 12 132
San Francisco····- - 1922
50 10.00 12 126
Los Angele1 _____ _-__~--- 1922
9 465
Los Angeles__ ________ 1922
50
9 223
Belvedere ·----------- 1922
50
9 199
Long Beach --------- 1923
80
9 110
Berkeley ---- ---·--- 1923
80
5.00 9 279
North Hollywood - · 1923
75
5.00 9 263
Long Beach ------···- 1923
50
12 263
Glendale ·---------··· 1923
50
12 318
San Francisco - ----- 1923
50
5.00 12 153
San Gabriel --------- 1923
50
12 137
50
12 115
Arcadia ··--·····-··--- 1923
1923
50
15 115
Venice ··-······-···--San Francisco -·-··· 1923
75 10.00 12 156
San Francisco --·-···-· 1923
75 25.00 12 164
Oakland ------------ 1923
50
5.00 12 176
Eureka ------------------ 1923
50
12 143
San Francisco ------ 1923
80
5.00 12 247
Weed ------------------- 1923
55
2.00
9 83
Fairfax --------------- 1923
12 108
85
1923
Hermosa Beach -----60
12 120
San Pedro -----··-··· 1923
80
12 253
1923
Los Angeles --········
50
9 216
Oakland -------------- 1923
50
l.00 12 180
East San Diego ···-· 1923
60
9 276
San Francisco - ·-----· 1923
50
1.00 12 189
Loa Angeles ....______ 1923
9 294
50
Oakland
1923
5.00 12 235
80
Los Angei~~:::===:::: 1923
12 198
50
Los Angeles .......____ 1923 100 30.00 9 149
Long Beach ······----· 1923
80
9 310
Oakland ------------- 1923
12 221
50
Oakland -------·----- 1923
50
196
1.00
San Francisco ----··· 1923 100 10.00 12 250
Berkeley ------------ 1923
5.00 9 170
75
Los Angeles ··------·-- 1923
50
9 156
Berkeley ----------------- 1923
12
58
75
9 185
80
San Diego ··-·-··-·--·· 1923
Fall River Mills _____ 1923
50
1.00 12 76
El Cajon ------------ 1923
50
59
12
50
4.50 12 244
Los Angeles -------···· 1923
75 15.00 9 275
Los Angeles ···-········ 1923
North Sacramento ___ 1924
75
9 162
Ramona
1924
30
12 49
Bakersfield
.. 1924 100
12 201
Rialto --- - -------------- 1924
55
9 84

,0

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

294

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

484 W asco _________,_.........--583
485 Harding._ ___________,84
486 Manchester________________ 585
487 Garden Grove ----------------· 586
488 Valley Forge·---------------------587
489 EI Sereno__________588
490 Kauai -------- -----····------.589
491 · Compass ________;_ __ _____,90
492 Escalon______________,91
493 Tujunga___
592
494 All Staces.___________593
_
________
____
_
594
Service.
495
496 Alexander Graham Bell ______595
497 Guardian.____ _____, ________596
498 Pearl Harbor._______________598
499 Carmelita._________________599
500 Lynwood ..__________ _600
501 Grizzly.______ _______601
502 Melrose . ...__________ 602
503 Dimond ··--·------------603
504 Jubilee ----------------------·- 604
505 Glassell Park ------------..-·- 605
506 Sojourner ·-·------------------607
507 Granada _____________,,______ 608
508 Provident_ _ _ _ _ __ 609
509 Elmhurst..
610
510 Canoga ______
611
511 Temple City..
12
512 Three Piflars ----·-------·- 613
Larchmont
_
_______
,,
_______
614
513
514 Hemet __ -----------------615
515 R. E. Dolley..________________ 616
516 Big Bear ___________...:.___ 617
517 Southland _ __________618
518 Neptune ------------------- 619
519 Point Loma -----------------.620
520 The Gardens ···-····------- ---621
521 Atwater ····---- - - -...622
522 Menorah ··-·····-----~----623
523 Fortitude ----·-----------624
524 Angeles Mesa - ----------- 625
525 Chula Vista ----------···-··-- 626
526 Lamanda Park ___________ _____627
527 Truth ----·------.'............__;__628
528 Fairview...._____________________629
529 Ingleside ________________630
530 Benevolence __________63 I
531 Normal Heights ·-------------632
532 Poinsettia _____'.__________________633
533 Victorville ...._,........., ______6J4
534 Riverside .................:.______ 63 5
535 John Marshall ............:_______636
536 Palisades · ---------------~-----...637
537 Indian Roclc _ _, ______·___638
538 Composite _________ _____639
539 Veritas ___________ _640
540 James A. Foshay......________ 641
541 L.. Cumbre ----------------642
542 Alta Loma --------------------· 643
543 Lomita -------·------------644
544 A. F. E. Irwin ________________645

Location

Charter
Issued

Wasco -----·- ----..-- 1924
Los Angeles ______ 1924
Los Angeles._________ 1924
Garden Grove ----- - 1924
Los Angeles _________ 1924
Los Angeles ------ 1924
Lihue, T. H ..__________ 1924
Pomona - -------- - 1924
Escalon - ---------- 1924
Tujunga --------··- 1924
Long Beach --·-·-· 1924
Long Beach ----------- 1924
Los Angeles .......... - 1924
South G ate -------·-··-- 1924
Honolulu, T. H ,.____ 1924
Pasadena ·-----...... 1924
Lynwood ---·--- 1924
Portola ---------- 1925
Los Angeles ._.._______ 1925
Oalcland -------------- 1925
Santa Ana
1925
Los Angeles ---------·· 1925
Monrovia ----------- 1925
Alhambra ------------ 1925
Sacramento ------ 1925
Oakland - ---------- 1925
Canoga Park ..________ 1925
Temple --------------- 1925
Sacramento ----------- 1925
Los Angeles-............ 1925
Hemet - ------------ 1925
Seal Beach ---------- 1925
Pine Knot ---- - 1925
Los Angeles ---·--···-- 1925
Long Beach -------- 1925
San Diego -- - ----······ 1925
Los Angeles ------------- 1925
Los Angeles -------·-··· 1925
Los Angeles -----·- 1925
Oalcland ----------- 1925
Los Angeles ___ _. 1925
Chula Vista ------- 1925
Pasadena ---- -----· 1925
Los Angeles ....:... - .. 1924
Inglewood --------···· 1926
San Francisco ....-..... 1926
Los Angeles --- -- --- 1926
San Diego - - - - - 1926
San Buenaventura .... 1926
Victorville ------- 1926
Riverside ----------- 1926
Los Angeles ------···-· 1926
Santa Monica ······--- 1926
Berkeley ------------ 1926
Los Angeles._________ 1926
San Francisco -'-'--- 1926
Los Angeles .---~;----- 1926
Santa Barbara - --·- 1926
Signal HilL:............. 1926
Lomita ------------ 1926
San Pedro ---------- 1926

Fees

MemFees Dues bers

Ami.

80
12
75 25.00 12
55 20.00 12
50
1.00 9
50 12.50 9
50
12
75 10.00 12
2.00 12
70
12
50
50
9
50
9
75
9
50
5.00 12
50
12
80 15.00 12
70
12
50
12
50 10.00 9
50 10.00 12
50
1.00 12
50
1.00 12
50
9
50
12
50
9
75 10.00 9
80
1.00 12
50
1.00 9
50
12
75 10.00 9
50 15.00 18
30
9
45
12
30 30.00 12
75
5.00 12
75
9
75
9
50
9
50 12.00 9
75
12
50
5.00 12
50
9
50
1.00 10
50
12
75
1.00 12
80 23.00 12
75
12
75
12
60
12
50
12
55
12
50
JO
80
9
80
9
50
5.00 12
75 10.00 12
50 ' 10.00 12
105
r2
75
12
75
.15
60
15
80
5.00 12

137
151
213
89
195
180
97
135
75
134
268
306
174
249
213
181
128
91
123
182
160
231
84
299
153
126
115
117
185
195
88
76
51
171
120
107
200
167
325
128
3'17
101
105
173
99
98
189
176
29:4
82
170
97
186
121
139
83
98
89
231
89
162

295

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Location

ChRrter
Issued

545 Metropolitan --------- ---------646 Los Angeles __ _____ 1926
546 Hawthorne ------ -------647 Hawthorne ------- 1926
547 Damucus ______________ 648 San Bernardino ----- 1926
548 Florence._ ___________.649 Los Angeles --- ------ 1927
549 La Brea ----------·------------650 Los Angeles._.________ 1927
550 Menlo Park ·-----------------.651 Menlo Park ---- -----···- 1927
551 Crescenta V ailey______________.652 Montrose
1927
552 Fontana- - ------- ----653 Fontana -------------- 1927
------553 Jordan .....___
54 Los Angeles --- --- 1927
554 Monte Vista _______~_...655 Long Beach ___,,__ 1927
555 Cittol.________-1)56 Brea
-------- 1927
556 John D. Spreckela...___ ,,_____ 657 San Diego
------· 1927
557 Livingston ·-------------------658 Livingston
1927
558 La Habra -- ----------------.------.659
1927
559 Baldwin Park·-------------660 La Habra --------·-···· 1927
Baldwin Park ·-··----560 Malta._________________.fi61 Los
Angeles ______ _____ 1928
561 Henry Knox - ----------662
Los Angeles ·- - - - 1928
562 Ojai .. --·--·------------.663 Ojai
------------ 1928
563 Kaweah -- ------665
1928
564 Reseda ·-·---·-······--------.666 W oodlalce ------Reseda ·----------· 1928
565 Meridian ·---------------...667 Glendale
1928
566 San Gorgonio_______________668 Banning -------------- 1928
---------------567 John P. Jarman ... _ __________669
San Jose --------------- 1928
568 Greenleaf.._______________670 Whittier
1928
--------569 San Clemente _ ___________671 San Clemente
_____ 1928
570 Laguna Beach._ _________.672 Laguna Beach - -.... 1929
571 Far West _________ _fjJ3 San
Francisco -----· 1929
572 Los Cerritos - ----------------- .674
Long Beach ----·-··· 1929
573 Modesto --------------------675 Modesto
------..-------- 1929
574 Willow Glen .___________________676 Willow Glen
............ 1930
575 Liberal Arts.________677 Los Angeles ---------- 1930
576 Altadena _________678 Pasadena ---~-- 1930
577 Canbys Cr011 _ ________________ 679 Tulelake
1935
578 Carmel __________________680 Carmel ---------- 1935
-------------- 1939
579 Dos Palos .___________________681 Dos Palos
---------580 Barstow · ·------------·-- 682
Barstow --------------- 1940
581 Redwood Empire ·-- ----- 683 Garberville
------------ 1940
Trana ·····---------"------------ UD Trona ---------------

Fees

50
80
75
50
50
50
55
55
50
50
50
80
50
50
50
50
75
45
75
75
75
75
50
55
75
50
75
105
50
50
50
70
50
55
50
80
50
75

MemFees Dues bers

Ami.

3.00
5.00
4.50
10.00
10.00
1.00

------10.00

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00
10.00

1.00
10.00
1.00

12 76
9
68
9 220
9 zoo
9 185
12 76
9 115
9 82
9 136
12 246
12 120
12 293
15 64
12 81
12 58
9 108
9 235
15
52
10 62
9 79
12 171
12 90
9 115
9 191
9
29
12 67
12 147
12 98
9 164
9 101
12 86
12 175
9
57
9
55
12 38
9
50
9
14
23
9

0

Total Membership August 1, 1940 ----------------------------------------· 126,185

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES
4
4
6
7
7

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco1 1850. Name changed to San Francisco Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No. 9,
Dec. 1874. ·
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov.,.
1851.
.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never issued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt. Jefferson
No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond, D iamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
3'l Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13,
1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 186.4.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov., 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, May 2,
1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian
No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Di1pensation granted 1857. Charter never 1SSued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin HUI, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka Ne ith, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. 1:onsolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma
No. 180, Dec., 1898.
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115, .
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, Nov.,
1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena, Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

297

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Colum·
bia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville,,1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known
as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882. •
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
Doric, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never issued.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 10, 1862.
152 Jooephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
155- f\.fount Cannel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec., 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Ney. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan . .16, 1865.
.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Chartew never issued.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25,
1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No.
180, Dec., 1898.
'
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never issued.

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.

213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
227 Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdictioll of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881. Transferred
to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucso1t, Ariz. Ter., l881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Dec. 25, 1919.
.
311 Hueneme, Hue1teme, 1892. Consolidated with Ox1tard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
340 Santa Maria, Sa1tta Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13,
1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec. 19,
1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
373 Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
. .
Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler. Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
438 Germania. Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
553 Golden. City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554, Feb.
16, 1940.
.
456 Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18, 1925.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628 as
Truth No. 628, February 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth. c~noga Park, 1925. Name changed tn Canoga. Oct. 15, 1931.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No. 597 as
Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Conso[idated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.

299

Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L 5850.
1850

1856

1862

Jonathan D. Stevenson, G. M. William H. Howard ...G. M. William C. Belcher....G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Corinthian No. 69
Born Jen. I 1800
John A. Raymond .. D. G. M.
Born Dae. 12, I820
Died Feb. 14, 1894
Died Sept. I, 1895
Lemuel Lyon ...•..••..S. G. W,
John A. Tutt............ D. G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner ........S. G. W. Peter W. Randle •...J. G. W. John W. Harville....S. G. W.
Sashel Woods .._ ...J. G. W. Addison Mertin ............G. T. John B. Hewson......J. G. W.
Levi Stowell ..........___ G. T. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. James Laidley ..............G. T.
John H. Gihon..............G. S.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

1851

1857

John A. Tutt................ G. M. Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Tehama No. 3
8orn Feb. 4, !8!5
Died May 19, 1900

1863

Washington No. 20
Born Feb. 8 1825
Died July i:i, 1897

William C. Belcher....G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Benj. D. Hyem ...... D. G. M. Charles Marsh ........ D. G. M. Louis Cohn ···-·- ···S· G. W.
~· F. W. Ellis ·--····S. G. W. Aaron D. Parlr.........S. G. W. Wm. A. Davies ..._J, G. W.
James Laidley ......- .....G. T.
enj. S. Olds ..........J. G. W, J h
Towns'd A. Thomu......G. T. o n B. Pope..........J. G. W. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
Levi Stowell ..................G. S. Addison Mertln ............G. T.
1852
Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S.
1864
William
C.
Belcher ....G. M.
Benjamin D. Hyam ......G. M.
1858
Benlcle No. 5
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Born March I, 1813
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M. Wm. A. Davies........S. G. W.
Died July 12, 1893
P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. Isaac S. Titus..........J. G. W.
Chas. M. Redcliff.. D. G. M. Wm. McCormicL.S. G. W. James Laidley :....•.....•..6. T.
Adolphus Hollub ....S. G. W. Jas. W. Bicknell......J. G. W. Ala.x G. Abell.............. G. S.
J. R. McConnell ....J. G. W. Addison Martin ............. G. T.
Addison Martin ............G. T. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
1865
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.
Gilbert
C.
Cleiborne..G. M.
1859
1853
Sen Joaquin No. 19

Charles M. Radcliff.. G. M. Nathaniel G. Curtis..G. M.
Born 1828
Died Dae. I, 1908
.
Tuolumne No. B
P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Wm.
A.
Davies
......
D.
G. M.
Ebenezer
Lane
........
S.
G.
W.
Died Dec. 31, 1889
Isaac S. Titu1..........S. G. W.
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G. M. Thos. P. Hawley......J. G. W. Henry H. Hartlay..J. G. W.
,Jno. R. Crandall....S. G. W. Addison Martln ............G. T. James Laidfey .............. G. T.
Richard F. Knott....J. G. W. Alex G. Abell ..............G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.
Addison Martin ............G. T.
Levi Stowell ..................G. S.
1860
1866
Nathaniel G. Curtis..G. M.
1854
Gilbert C. Claiborne.. G. M.
William H. Howard .. G. M. P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. Hen.ry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher......S. G. W.
San Jose No. IO
Wm. H. Peterson ....S. G. W.
Born Aug. 29, 1810
Alvinza Hayward ....J. G. W.
Thomas Beck ..........J. G. W.
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Addison Martin ............G. T. James Laidfey ...•.,........G, T.
Neth. G. Curtis.... D. G. M. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Alex G. AbelL ............ G: S.
Rector E. Cole......S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ......J. G. W.
1861
Addison Martin ............G. T.
1867
Levi Stowell .................. G. S. James L. English......G. M. William A. Davies ......G. M.

1855

Sacramento No. 40
Born June 5, 1813
Died May 29, 1889

Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, !827

William H. Howard .. G. M.
Died June 20, 1916
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G. M. Wm. C. Belcher.... D. G. M. Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ..S. G. W. John W. Harville....S. G. W. Thomas Beck ..........S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt......J. G. W. Caleb E. Wilcoxon ..J. G. W. Leonidas E. Pratt....J. G. W.
Addison Martin ...........•G. T. James Laidley ..............G. T. James Laidley .....•.........G. T.
Levi Stowell ..................6. S. Alex G. Abell..............G.
Alex· G. Abell..............6. S.

s:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

300

1868

1875

1882

Charles Marsh ............G. M. John M. Browne.........G. M. Clay W. Taylor..........G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Naval No. S7
Jonath. D. Hines.... D. G. M.
Sorn Dec. 6, IS25
Sorn May 10, IB31
Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Died April 2S, IS76
Died Dec. 7, IS94
Leonidas E. Prett.... D. G. M. Chas. L Wiggin .... D. G. M. George Hinds ........J. G. W.
Theo. G. CochilL.S. G. W. Wiley J, Tinnin ......S. G. W. Moses Heller ................G. T.
Fredk. F. Barss........J. G. W. Jacob H. NefL.....J. G. W. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
James Laidley ···-·-······G. T. James Laidley ..............G. T.
1883
Alex G. AbelL...........G. S. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Jonathan D. Hines......G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
1869
1876
Born Jan. I, IS25
Died Dec. 30, ISS6
Leonides E. Pratt..... -.G. M. John M. Browne..........G. M.
Mountain
Ch as. L• w·iggin
· ....0 · G · M· Wiley J. Tlnnin...... D. G. M.
Born Auo;i.Shade
29; IS33No.IS
Died Oct. 25,1886
Wm. S. Wells..........S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Isaac s. Titus.......... D. G. M. Solon W. Craigue..J. G. W, Hiram N. Rucker....J. G . W.
John S. Ward ........S. G. W. James Laidley ............_G. T. Moses Heller ................ G. T.
Richard Dale _ .......J. G. W. Ale,x G. Abell..............G. S. Al,.x G. Abell..............G. S.
1884
James Laidley _ ...........G. T.
1877
Alex G . . Abell.............. G. S. John M. Browne.......... G. M. Jonathan 0. Hines......G. M.
1870
Chas. L Wiggin .... D. G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin...... D. G. M.
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. Wm. W. Traylor...... S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus.......... D. G. M. Wm. H. Crane........J. G. W. H iram N. Rucker....J. G. W.
Chas. L. Wiggin ....S. G. w~ Moses Heller ................G. T. Moses Heller ................G. T.
Benj. H. Freeman ....J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.
1885
James Laidley ..............G. T.
1878
Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S. John M. Browne.......... G. M. Wiley J. Tinnln ............G. M.
Trinity No. 27
1871
Wm. W. Traylor .... 0. G. M.
Born Oct. 7, IS29
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Leonides E. Pratt........ G. M. Wm H. Crane........S. G. W.
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Robt. C. Broder......J. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson .. 0. G. M.
Ben. H. Freeman....S. G. W. Moses Heller ................G. T. Hiram N. Ruder....S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins......J. G. W. Alex G. AbelL.........-G. S. Henry H. Knapp....J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
James Laidley .............. G. T.
1879
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. William W. Tra'flor.... G. M. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
1886
1872
California No. I
Edmund C. Atkinson ..G . M.
,
Born Merch 17, IS22
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M.
Died Jan. IS, IS83
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17, IS37
Benj. H. Freeman .. D. G. M. Sa~uel C. Denson .. D. G. M.
Died March 20, 1911
Geo. C . Perkins......S. G. W. Clay W. Taylor......S. G. W.
John M. Browne....J. G. W. 1John Q. Adams......J. G. W. Hiram N. Rucker.... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee......S. G . W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. I 'oses Heller ................ G. T. Alvah R. Conklin ....J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
1873
1880
. Alex G . Abell ..............G. S.
lseac S. Titus.....•........ G. M. Samuel C. Denson...... G. M.
1887
San Joaquin No. 19
Union No. 58
Hiram N. Rucker ...... G. M.
Sorn Oct. 14, IS27
Born Sept. 23, IS39
La Grano;ie No. 99
Died April 22, IS92
Died July 26, 1917
Born Sept. 6, IS44
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Geo. C. Perkins...... D. G. M. Clay W. Taylor ......0. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne......S. G. W. John Q. Adams......S. G. W. Morris M. Estee...... D. G. M.
Chas. E. Mitchell....J. G. W. 0. W. HollenbecLJ. G. W. Alvah R. Conklin ....S. G. W.
James Laidley ··-··-·····G. T. Moses Heller ..,..............6. T. Wm. Johnston........J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T.
Alex G. AbelL............ G. S.

1874

1881

1888

George C. Perkins ....G. M. Clay W. Taylor..........G. M. Morris M. Estee........G. tvf.
Oroville No. 103
Western Star No. 2
California No. I
Sorn Auo;i. 23, IS39
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Feb. · 26, 1923
Died May I, IS97
Died Oct. 7, 1903
John M. Browne.... D. G. M. John Q. Adams...... O. G. M. Alvah R. Conklin.... D. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker........S. G. W. Jonath. D. Hines....S. G. W. William Johnston .... S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ... _J. G. W. Thos. J. Bowers......J. G. W. Marc. D. BorucL...J. G. W.
James Laidley .............. G. T. Moses Heller ................G. T. Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Alex G. AbelL............ G. S.

1889

1895

301
1901

Morris M. Estee........ G. M. Edward M. Preston ....G. M. William S. Wells........G. M.
Martinez No. 41
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Born June 24, 1161.
Born May 4 1841
Ch as. R· G ri't man..S • G • W •
Died April 24, 1903
Died Jan 23, 1919
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. W
T L
D G M O. S. Hendarson .... D. G. M.
m. • ucas........ • . .
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Thomas Flint ..........S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..S. G. W.
F. M. Angellotti.._J. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
1890
George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.
Alvah R. Conklin ......G. M.
1902
Inyo No. 221
1896
Born 1835
S. Henderson....G. M.
William T. Lucas........ G. M. Orrin
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Morning Ster No. 68
Guadalupe No. 237
Born June 2, 1863
William Johnston .. 0. G. M.
Born March 18, 1850
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. R. Gritman ..$. G. W.
Died March 21, 1931
Henry S. Orme...... J. G. W. Thomas Flint .......... 0. G. M. Chas. W. Nutting .. O. G. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. F. M. Angellotti ....S. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter ....S. G. W.
George Johnson ..........G. S. Chas. L. Patton......J. G. W. Motley H. Flint......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. George Johnson .......... G. S.
George
Johnson
..........
G.
S.
1891
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L
William Johnston ......G. M.
1903
1897
Franklin. No. 143
Charles W. Nutting ....G. M.
Born June 2, 1825
Flint..
............
G.
M.
Evenlno;i
Star No. 186
Thomas
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Texas No. 46
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Chas. R. Gritman .. D. G. M.
Born May 19, IS58
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Henry S. Orme ......S. G. W.
Died Nov. 18, 1936
Geo. W. Hunter.... D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens........J . G. W. F. M. Angellotti .... D. G. M. · Motley H. Flint ......S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Chas. L. Patton......S. G. W. Edw. H. Hart..........J. G. W.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Jes. A. Foshay........J. G. W. Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. George Johnson..........G. S.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.

1892

Charles R. Gritman .... G. M.
1898
Yount No. 12
Frank M. Angellotti....G. M.
Born Dec. 10, . IS3S
Merln No. 191
Died May 14, IS94
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Henry S. Or~e...... D. G. M.
Died May 23, 1932
Jes. B. Stevens........$. G. W. Chas. L. Patton...... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston......J. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay........S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. Wm. S. Wells..........J. G. W.
George John•on ..........G. S. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
George Johnson.......... G. S.

1893

1899

1904
George W. Hunter.... G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born-Died Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint...... O. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart..........S. G. W.
Geo, M. Perlne......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ..........G. L.

1905

Henry S. Qrme........... G. M. Charles L. Patton ...... G. M. Motley H. Flint.......... G. M.
Ealt Gate No, 290
So. California No. 278
California No. I
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Born March 25, 1837
Born
1865
Died July 14, 1930
Died Nov. 29, 1912
Died April 11, 1923
Jes. B. Stevens...... D. 6. M. Jes. A. Foshay...•.... D. G. M. Edward H. Hart .... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston ....S. G. W. Wm. S. Wells..........S. G. W. Geo. M. Perine......S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........J. G. W. 0. S. Henderson ....J. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson .......... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L

1894

1900

1906

James A. Foshay........G. M. Edward H. Hart..........G. M.
James B. Stevens........ G. M.
So. California No. 278
live Oak No. 61
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Yount No. 12
Born IS58
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Born March 271 1841
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Died Dec. 6, IYI 9
Wm. S. Wells.......... O. G. M. Geo. M. Perine ...... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston.... D. G. tvf. 0 . S. Henderson ....S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..J. G. W. Oscar Lawler ..........J. G. W.
Thomas Flint............J. G. W. Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Edward Colemen ..........G. T.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson.......... G. S.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

302

1907

1913

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1919 .

George M. Perine...•..G. M. John D. Murphey .•.•..G. M. Chas. Albert Adams ..G. M.
Alta No. 333
Excelsior No. 166
Pacific No. 136
Born July 7, IB63
Born Nov. 25, IB67
Born IB52
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Benj.
F.
Bledsoe
......
D.
G.
M.
Geo.
F. Rodden .... D. G. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd .... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler..........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett...... S. G. W. Sam. E. Burke.......... S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce ...•J. G. W. F. V. Keesling .....•..J. G. W. Wm. A. Sherman .... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .........•G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. John Whicher -············G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker...•...... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1908

1914

1920

Oscar Lawler ............ G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe.......... G. M. George F. Rodden .... G. M.
Marin No. 191
East Gate No. 290
San Bernardino No. 348
Born Dec. 24, IB67
Born April 2, IB75
Born Feb. B, IB74
Died Mar. B, 1934
Died Oct. 30, 193B
W. Frank Pierce .... D. G. M. Alb. G. Burnett.... D. G. M. Sam. E. Burke ........ D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller......S. G. W. F. V. Keesling ........$. G. W. Wm. A. Sherman ....S. G. W.
A. J. Monroe ..........J. G. W. W. Rh. Hervey ........ J. G. W. Arthur S. Crites......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
· John Whicher ........••...•G. S. John Which er ·········-···G• S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker..........G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1909
W. Frank Pierce ........ G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Jan. 16, IB55
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller...... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe .......... S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
John Whicher .•..•••..•.•.. G. S.
Thomas J. · Baker.......... G. L

1910
Dana R. Weller..........G. M.
So. California No. 27B
Born March 24, IB74
A. J. Monroe .......... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer ........S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey ........ J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.........•G. T.
John Whicher .........•...•G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1911
Alonzo J. Monroe ...... G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Oct. 19, IB5B
Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey ........S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
John Whicher ·········-···G. S.
Tho·mas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1912
Wm. P. Filmer............ G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born March 2, IB66
Jno. D. Murphey .... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ...... S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
John Whicher ......:.......&. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1915

1921

Samuel E. Burke........ G. M.
Albert G. Burnett ...... G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Born April 9, IB56
Died Aug. 15, 1923
Wm. A. Sherman .... D. G. M.
F. V. Keesling ...•.•.. D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites ......S. G. W.
Wm. Rh. Hervey .... S. G. W. David J. Reese ........ J. G. W.
Bradford Webster..J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. John Whicher ..............G. S.
John Whicher -·······-···G. S. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
Thomas J; Baker.......... G. L.
1922

1916

William A. Sherman .. G. M.
Presidio No. 354
Francis V. Keesling .... G. M.
Born Sept. 17, IBBO
California No. I
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Born Feb. 17, IB77
Arthur
S. Crites...... D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey .... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster .. S. G. W. David J. Reese ...... S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adams .... J. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton ...... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher -············G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1917

1923

Wm. Rhodes Hervey .. G. M. Arthur S. Crites.......... G. M.
Bakersfield No. 224
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Feb. 4, IB79
Born March 26, IB70
David J. Reese ...... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster .. D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton ......$. G. W.
Chas. A. Adams ......S. G. W. Geo. L. Jones ..........J. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ...... J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. John Whicher .............. G. S.
John Whicher .........•.•.. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1918

1924

•, David J. Reese ............ G. M.
Bra df ord W e b st er······ G • m.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Live Oak No. 61
B
A
22 IB71
Born Dae. 14, IB69
Dt!d N~~: 9, 1'934
Chas. A. Adams .... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton ...... D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ...... S. G. W. · George L. Jones .... S. G. W.
Sam. E. Burke.......... J. G. W. Will H. Fischer......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher ...........••• G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1925
Albert E. Boynton ......G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Born Oct. 9, IB75
Geo. L Jones...•...... D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer ......S. G. W.
Gus. A. HutafL.....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ......•.•••._G, S.
Thomas J, Baker.......... G. L

1926

1931

1928

1929
C. M. Wollenberg ...... G. M.
Starr Kin11 No. 344
Born March 13, IB73
John S. Ross .......... D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord .... S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1930

1936

Robt. B. Gaylord ........G. M. Rollie W. Miller..........G. M.
Oakland No. IBB
Sunset No. 352
Born Nov. 24, IB76
Born Oct. 17, IBB3
Frank W. Mixter.... D. G. M.
James B. Gist..........S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ...•....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ····-···-···G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

George L. Jones........ G. M.
Madison No. 23
Born May II, IB73
1932
Will H. Fischer...... D. G. M. Frank W. Mixter........ G. M.
Gus. A. HutafL ..... s. G. W.
Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, IB73
C. M. Wollenberg .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher -··········-G• S. James B. Gist........ D. G. M.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Wm. A. Sitton ........ S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ........ J. G. W.
1927
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
Will H. focher .........•G. M. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
Wilshire No. 445
Born Sept. 11, IB75
Gus. A. HutafL..... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ..$. G. W.
1933
J. S. Ross................ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. James B. Gist............G. M.
John Whicher .............•G. S.
Pantalpha No. 202
Born Au9. B, IB6B
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
Gustav A. Hutaff...... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, IB79
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .. D. G. M.
J. S. Ross................S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord .... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

303

James T. Fraser...... D. G. M.
Leon O. Whitsell.. ..$. G. W.
William H. Waste .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher................ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood .............. G. L.

1937
James T. Fraser.......... G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Aug. 2B, IB6B
Leon 0. Whitsell.. .. D. G. M.
William H. Waste ..S. G. W.
Willi.am B. Ogden .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher................ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............G. L.

1938
Leon 0. Whitsell.. ...... G. M.
Oran9e Grove No. 293
Born July 10, IB76

R. V. Whiting ........ D. G. M.
Earl Warren ....•..... S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ......•..•....G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

William H. Waste .. D. G. M.
William B. Ogden .S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...... J G. W.
William Parker Filmdr.. G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

1934

1939

Randolph V. Whiting .. G. M. William B. Ogden ...... G:M.
King Solomon No. 260
Hollywood No. 355
Born Nov. 30, IB70
Born Aug. 26, IB76
Earl Warren ....•..... D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller...... S. G. W.
James T. Fraser...... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ...:.•...•.... G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

Lloyd E. Wilson ...... D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ......S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ...... J. G. W.
William Parker Filmer.. G. T.
John Whicher .............•G. S.
Walter Leonard ............G. L.

1935

1940

John Stewart Ross ...... G. M. Earl Warren ................ G. M. Lloyd E. Wil,on ......•... G. M.
El Centro No. 3B4
Sequoia No. 349
Ingleside No. 630
Born May 21, IB79
Born March 19, IB91
Born Aug. 16, IB95 . '
Robt. B. Gaylord .... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter ....S. G. W.
James B. Gist........ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker...•...... G. L.

Rollie 'W. Miller ...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser...... S. G. W.
Leon 0. Whitsell.. .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ..•.,......... G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L

Frank M. Smith ........ D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison.J.G.W.
William Parker Filmer.. G. T.
John Whicher................G. S.
Walter Leonard ............ G. L.

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'

LIST OF INSPECTORS

Itispectors

District
Inspectors
Date of Commission
Clark H. Shaw................................................ July, 1911.....--···--·········· 97
C. S. Baldwin.....................- ....................January, ·1915··-····-···········-········· 7
J. E. Hughes ............................................ October, 1915_ _........................ 30
Thomas Anderson ............................ February 1, 1918-·-···························· 44
Harry W. Bessac...........:...................... February, 1918-······-········-············· 49
Foster .G. Dyer...................................... December, 1920.................................. 45
Karl L. Ratzer....................--··············January 1, 1921.....:....- -.................... 117
John M. lcardo......._...............................January, 1921..................................115
Walter A. Stewart..........................................July, 1922.................................. 69
Ralph M. Foote................................ September 5, 1922...- ............................. 26
Chester C. Morris .................................. February, 1923.................................. 37
James B.' McLees.......................... December 27, 1923..................... _...........109
Fred C. \\Tarner....:................................. October, 1924............~................... 83
F. J . J oubett.......................................... N ovember, 1924............. ~ .......•........~... 12
Eric R. Johnson ....................•......... November 13, 1924..............•................... 48
S. Leslie Hawken..........................•...January 27, 1925....;............................. 52
Arthur E. Tangeman........................ February 1, 1925.........................·......... 94
Frank G. Falloon.................................... October, 1925..- ..........,................... 75
Henry C. MacMaster............................ February, 1926.•................................ 101
Joel S. Conklin..........................................] anuary, 1927.................................. 11
Thomas A. Dille ............................ November 12, 1927.................................. 78
Clarence L. Fraser.............................. December, 1927.................................. 63
Manley J. Clark.......................................................... 1928 ................................. 39
Wm. S. Thompson...................................... March 1928.................................. 59
Bernard F. Hois·holt...................... November 1, 1928 ................................. 27
C. A. Shepherd................................ November l, 1928..................................102
Wm. L. Hovis ...................................... December, 1928...,......:....................... 79
Rudolph Mohr, Jr ..............................,....January, 1929..- .............................. 46
J. Lynn Goode......................................January 1, 1929.................................. 81
A. E. Blanchard ...... ~ .............................................. 1950.................................. 116
Sophus Nelson.................- ......................January, 1930.................................. 38
Geo. P. Salm .............................................. June 14, 1930..........,._..
82
Harry 0 . Carlson......................................July 1, 1930.....·-·························· 57
Lawrence C. Kelley ...................... December 16, 1930.................................. 84
Alfred F. Breslauer................................January, 1931.................................. 43
Herbert W. Walker.........;........................ August, 1931......< ••'. ............ . ........ ... 89
Horace E. Vedder .......................... December 16, 1931...."........................,..... 91
Norman G. Johnson ................................January, 1932......................:........... 2
A. B. Gunslander................................,..,January, 1932......:......:.................... 3
Walter G. Orman ....................................January, 1932..,............................... 1
Truman Van Dyke...........................•.. February, 1932.................................. 76
T . M. Widby.................................................. April, 1932.................................. 53
George A. Otie ................................................May, 1932 ................................. .112
Niles 0. Millar...... :....;.....:.......•....,...,......::..:.:.July, 1932..........................:....... 32
A . . . . . . .. .. , . . . . .

Date of Commission

305
District

Harry Nelson.,.......;...............................January 1, 1933...- .......................... 31
Jos. S. Greenley...............:..,...................] anuary 1, 1933.................................. 54-A
Thomas B. Pollard........:.........................January, 1933.................................. 19
Louis Mittelman ............................................April, 1933.................................. 29
T. Glenn Wright.................................. August 8, 1933•..- ............................ 20
Harry S. Clark...................................... October 1, 1933...- ............................11 I
W. R. Farmer....~.....................................January, 1934-•.- .................:......... 92
Herman Thode............................................March, 1934................................. 8
W. J. Courtiour..................................August 13, 1934--.................~........ 98
H. R. Hargrave.............................. September 15, 1934.................................. 62
Fred C. Alexander.................................. October, 1934.................................. 58
Chas, H. Knights ............................December 28, 1934..................................108
Alexander D. Potts............................January 1, 1935..................................103
Walter Von Konsky..,.........................January 1, 1935.................................. 41
Arthur Joel............................................January 1, 1935_.....:.......................... 48-A
A. L. Auradou............;.........................January 1, 1935.................................. 113
W. I. Kohnke....................·....................] anuary 1, 1935..-............................... 47
John Behrens..........................:.............January 2, 1935................................. 114
Clias. A. Schwartz..................................January, 1935 ..................... :........... 22
Chas. S. Hogan.............................................. April, 1935................................. 5
Carl C. Mikesell...................................... October, 1935.................................. 104.A
Samuel Dollar ......................................... December, 1935 .............................•... 61
Willard G. Babcock..........................January 10, 1936..................................106
A. H. Allen................................,.............January, 1936.................................. 100
James W. Robinson ................................January, 1936.................................. 16
Chas. 0. BurrelL..............................]anuary 10, 1936.................................. 54
Obed W. Carr....................:................. February 1, 1936.................................. 64
Raymond G. Taylor.................................. May 1, 1936.................................. 66
Wm. L. Davis .......................................... October, 1936 ................................. 60
Frank Harwell, Jr ............................. October 10, 1936.................................. 77
\,Yiiliam C. Gover..........................~ ....•.... October, 1936................................. 6
John R. Moore.................................. October 31, 1936;................................ 86
Carl F. Peters .................................. November 1, 1936.................................. 80
George S. Ward...................................January 1, 1937.................................. 4
Lucas Schaffer......................................January 1, 1937.................................. 14
W. Del Richards ..................................January 1, 1937................................. 21
Oliver L. Rawson .......... ,.....................January 2, 1937 ................................. 93
Keith W . Schlaegel.......................... February 10, 1937.................................. 99
Gustav A. Quick........................................June 5, 1937.................................. 71
Harry A. Truesdale ............................ November, 1937.................................. 68
Russell W. Giles.................;........ November 16, 1937 ................................. 56
Ralph H . Logsdon .............................. December, 1937................:................. 104Roy I. LeFever....................................January 1, 1928.................................. 96
Paul G. Weller•......·........................- .......January, 1938.................................. 105.
C. A. Severin..........................•, ...c••••••••January 1, 1938 ................................. 34-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

306.
Inspectors

Date of Commission

District

Orval A. Myers...................................... February, 1938....................:............ 10
Karl F. Stolting..................................,.....April 1, 1938.....~............................ 50 .
Harold W. Conklin.................................... March, 1938.................................. 33
Fred Weed............................................ September, 1938................................. 110
Peter Frederick J ensen .................... September, 1938.................................. 65
Roy C. Bryan...................................... October 12, 1938.....:.............................. 88
George L. Stivers .............................. November, 1938........................._,....... 23
Guido de Ghetaldi.................................. October, 1938 ................................. 18
Wm. H. A. Fleischer................:....... November, 1938................................. 42
Leonard Gross ................................ December 17, 1938.................................. 96-A
Harold L. Mason .........~ .........................January, 1939 .................................. 15
Roy S. LenthalI.: ....:...............................J anuary, 1939.................................. 36
Chas. H. Foye......................................January 1, 1939 ................................. 87
Ed L. De Patie....................,..................:......July, 1939.................................. 85
Ralph C. Hine............................................August, 1939.................................. 70
E. L. Smith ......................:..........,..........January 1, 1939.................................. 9
Geo. E. Delavan, Jr ................................. August, 1939.................................. 73
E . L. Hickok.............................................................. 1940.................................. 17
] . Tyler Parker, Sr.....................................................1940. ................................. 90
Ralph K. Pierson.........................,.............................. 1940........:..................•....... 95
Charles E. Simons.......- ......:................... :............... 1940........................:.......... 67
John P. Jones.......................,...................................... 1940..................- .............. 13
Harry L. Jasper .................................., ..............;...... 1940.c...",.......................... 24
]. Wesley Sibole. ......................................................J94Q.............................. 25
Lawrence Bolenbaugh ..............................................1940.....................,............ 35
Ralph M. SmalL.......................,................................ 1940...................,.............. 40
Frederick A. Penn......................................................1940....................................51
William H. · Baxter....................................................1940.................................. 65
Har<lus Sorkness ..................;.....................................1940.......................,..........107

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZE D AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo.
Canada:
Alberta]. H. W. S. Kemmis, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbiaFrank S. McKee, Grand Secty.,
Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
Manitoba]. H. G. Russell, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova Scotia] am es C. Jones, Grand Secty.,
F. M. Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandChas. M. Williams, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E . I.
Quebec•
W . W . Williamson, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1559, Montreal, Quebec.
SaskatchewanW. B. Tate, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Rod Castro 0., Grand Secty.,
Av. 656, Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Colombia:
.
National Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333.
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota.
Costa Rica:
Rudolfo Ramirez-Pabon, Grand Secty., •
Masonic Temple, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba, Isle of:
Dr. Luis Martinez Reys, Grand Secty.,
Aparto 72, La Habana, Cuba.
Equador:
Dr. C. Alcivar. Grand Secty.,
Guayaquil, S. A.

307

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR"1IA

Egypt:
Abd El Maguid Younis, Grand Secty.,
The National Grand Lode of Egypt, Cairo, Egypt.

Sweden:
Vngve G. Wisen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurarelogen, Stockholm, Swed~n.

England:
Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.

Switzerland:
The Chancery of the Grand Lodge Alpina,
Bogenschutzenstrasse, 8, Berne, Switzerland.

Guatemala:
Pedro Donia 0., Grand Secty ..
Apa'rtado 312, Guatemala City, C. A.

Tasmania:
W. H. Strutt, Grand Secty.,
Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.

Honduras:
M. F. Rodriguez, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.

Victoria:
.
Wm. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
Melbourne, Australia.

Ireland:
H . C. Sheliard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland.

West Australia:
A. E . Jensen, Grand Secty.,
Perth , West Australia.

Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico, F. T. Berger, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D . F.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific, Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secretary, Masonic Hall, Sidney, N. S. \,\'.
New Zealand:
A. H . Lamb, Grand Secty.,
P . O . Box 562, Dunedin, !':ew Zealand.
Panama ;
Marcario So lis, Grand ' Secty. ,
P . 0. Box 350, Panama, C. A.
Peru:
Gonzalo Colmenares, Grand Secty.,
Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzalez Grand Secty.,
Manila, P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Rudolfo Ramirez-Pabon. Grand Secty.,
San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
Leslie P . Marks, Grand Secty.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Salvador :
Dr. Manuel Vidal, Grand Secty.,
San Salvador, C. A.
Scotland:
Thos. G. Winning, Grand Secty.,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
South Australia:
R. Owen Fox. Grand Secty.,
Adelaide, South Australia.

309

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

•
ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. E. F. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn ( 494), Oakland.
Adin (250) Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (43\) , Richmond.
Alta (333) , Bridgeport.
Altadena (678) , Altadena.
Alta Vista (464) , San Francisco.
Alta Loma (643), Signal Hill.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amity (370), San Francisco.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles,
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda. ,
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305); Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View ( 401), Oakland.
Bear Mount~in (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483) , Bell.
Bellflower ( 523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539) , Los Angeles.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5) , Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.

Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro) (656), Bre;i
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis ( 417), Clovis.
Coachella ( 476), Coachella.
Coalii:iga (387), Coalinga.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba: (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297) , Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528) , Beverly Hills
Big Bear (617), Pine Knot.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195) , Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame .(400), Burlingame.

Eagle Rock ( 422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
East·Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561),
East San Diego.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Centro (384) , El Centro.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Catalina Island (524) , Avalon.
Center ( 465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (410), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico ( 111) , Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.

Fairfax (556), Fairfax.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.
Fairmount ( 435), San Francisco.
Fallbrook (317), Fall brook.
Far West (673), San Francisco.
Feltowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Caledonia ( 486) , Bakersfield.
Calexico (412) , Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.

Colusa (240), Colusa.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker ( 454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

Elsinore (289), Els_inore.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
Elysian ( 418), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70) , Yuba City.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
E vening Star (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.
Forest Hill (534) , San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361); Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Francis Drake (376), South
San Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247)-, Fresno.

Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.

Justice (549)., San Francisco.

K
G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza ( 492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown {25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.

Golden Rule ( 479), San Jose.
Golden West ( 455), San Francisco.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hammonton ( 433), Hammonton.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, H. T.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Henry Morse Stephens (541),
Berkeley.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.

Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville ( 425), Holtville.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, H. T.
Hope (234), Beckwith.
·
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Huntington Beach (380),
Huntington Beach.

I
lllinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood ( 421), Inglewood.

James A. Foshay (641),
Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield (566),
Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Jan es ville (232), Janesville.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.

Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

J
John Marshall (636),
West Hollywood.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Jonathan ( 545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508). San Joaquin.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.

Kauai (589), Lihue, H. T.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, H. T.
King David's (209),
San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260),
San Francisco.

L
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Liberal Arts (677),
West Los Angeles.
Libertas ( 466), Bakersfield.
Liberty (299) , Santa Clara.
Lincoln ( 470), San Francisco.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.

La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518). La Jolla.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Lancaster,( 437), Lancaster.
Lankefshim (542),
North Hollywood.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La Puente (446). Puente.
Larchmont (614). Los Angeles.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lebanon (495). San Francisco.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu, H. T.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
. Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, H. T.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.

Meridian (667), Glendale.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft.
Military Service (570),
San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Monte Vista (655)., Long Beach.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.

313

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN.IA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mount Davidson (481),
San Franci!>co. .
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.

Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619) , Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266) , Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (.~IH), Oceanside.
Ojai (663), Ujai.
Olive Branch (269) , Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33) , Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San FranciscQ.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Perris ( 411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60) , Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Poinsettia ( 633) , Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Poin t Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354) , San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro {110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Parfaite Union {17) , San Francisco.
Park ( 449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson ( 488), Patterson.
Paul Revere ( 462), San Francisco.
P .. ~rl Harbor (598), Honolulu, H . T.
Penrhyn (258) , Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

315

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
R. E. Dolly (616); Seal Beach. ·
Reading (254), Redding.
. Redlands (300), Redlands.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empir:e (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304) , Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dimas ( 428) , San D imas.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sanger (316) , Sanger.
San Bernardino (348),
San Bernardino.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Francisco (360) , San Francisco.
San Jacinto (338) , San Jacinto.
San] oaquin ( 19), Stockton.
San Jose (10) , San Jose.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
San Pasqual ( 452), Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
Santa Ana (241) , Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38) , Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), Kings City.
Santa Maria (580) , Ramona.
Santa Monica (307) , Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Schofield ( 443), Schofield Barracks,
H.T.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security ( 581 ), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.

s

Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397),
Huntington Park.
R iverbank (459), Riverbank.
Riverdale (496), Riverdale.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), W indsor.
Service (594) , Long Beach.
Sierra Madre ( 408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley ( 184) , Sierraville.
~ignal (543), Long Beach.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Sincerity (132) , Greenville.
Sisson (310) , Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278) ,
L os Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618) , Los Angeles.
South Park (563), L9S Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (44G/, Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
·
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), L os Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522)', Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235) , Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

317

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.

Torrance (447), Torrance.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (U. D.), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128); Visalia.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Vallee de France (329) , Los Angeles.
Vallejo ( 487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Waucoba (413). Big Pine.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
West Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.

Westwood (501), Westwood.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire ( 445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (Z87), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (i56), Woodland.
Woodstock (491], Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yor~a Linda (469), Ydrba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
•
Page
Bouquets and Brickbats........................................................................................ 371
Co-ordinate Bodies ...........................................~ ...................................................... 320
Committee on Correspondence............................................................................ 324
Directory
California Chairmen Correspondence........................................................ 385
California Grand Bodies......•................................. :.................. ,.................... 384
Gr.and Lodge Communications, ................................................................... 383
Grand Lodges,............................... ~ .............. :.............................•....:.............. 386
Education
M.asonic ......................................................................................... - ............ 328, 364
Pub lic .............................................................................................-_. ..•.......L .... 364
Founding Fathers .................................................................................................... 330
Funerals............................................ ;......................................................................... 329
Grand Lodges..............•....................•........ ;............................................................. 341
Interesting Reading............................................ :...........•. :..~ .................,...:....•......:. 345
Masonry-Its Objective........................................................................................ 346
Membership ..••..,............................................................ ,.................................., ........ 350
Offenses .................. J •••••••• • •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ...,••• , ••••• ; •••• : ••••••••••• , •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 354
Off the Record ............•.................................•... ;..........•.......... :............................... 358
Politics .....................................................................: .................................................. 362
Public Schools Week. ......................................................................... _.................. 364
Ritual.. .......................................... :............................................... ~............................. 365
Statistics
Co-ordinate Bodies•. :......•.;...........,................................,.. :.......................... :. 383
Foreign. ................. :.........................................................., .................................. 387
Grand Lodges ..................................................,........................................ ~ ....... 386
United States ..............................., ....................•............................................... 387
Visitations .................................................................................................................. 368

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
For the seventeenth annual period in a service of nineteen years as
Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, herewith is presented its
.Report. As in former years, the same is the work of the Chairman and the
views expressed under the various topics are, of course, his own.
In compiling the same the Proceedings of over 68 Grand Lodges have
been sutnmarized, with a view of giving the reader briefly the thought and
action of the various jurisdictions. There is no dearth of material and the
problem is to select and confine within the pages allotted interest and instructive information.
During the preparation of the report for the last seventeen years the
trend of Masonic activities, discussions, or legislation have generally featured a particular subject and pertinent in all the various Proceedings.
At the present time, with world conditions as they are, we believe an
editorial from "The New York Times" is pertinent to America and Masons.
"What is the love of country for which our Flag stands?
"Maybe it begins with love of the land itself. It is the fog rolling in with
the tide at Eastport or through the Golden Gate and among the towers of
San Francisco. It is the sun coming up behind the White Mountains, over
the Green, throwing a shining glory on Lake Champlain and above the
Adirondacks. It is the storied Mississippi rolling swift and muddy past St.
Louis, pouring down past the levees of New Orleans. It is the lazy noon~
tide in the pines of Carolina, a sea of wheat rippling in western Kansas, the
Grand Canyon, a little trout stream coming down out of a New England
ridge.
"It is men at work. It is the storm-tossed fishermen coming into Gloucester and Provincetown and Astoria. It is the farmer riding his great
machine in the dust of harvest, the dairyman going to the barn before
sunrise, "the lineman mending the broken wire, the miner drilling for the
blast. It is the servants of fire in the murky splendor of Pittsburgh between
the Allegheny and the Monongahela, the trucks rumbling through the night,
the locomotive engineer bringing the train in on time, the pilot in the
clouds, the riveter running along the beam a hundred feet in air. It is the
clerk in the office, the housewife doing the dishes and sending the children
off to school It is the teacher, doctor and parson tending and helping body
and soul for small reward.
"It is the small things remembered, the little corners of the land, the
houses, the people that each one loves. We love our . country because there
was a little tree on a hill, with grass thereon and a sweet valley below;
because the hurdy-gurdy man came along on a sunny morning in a city
street; because a beach or a farm or a lane or a house that might not seem
much to others was once, for each of us, made magic. It is voices that are
remembered only, no longer heard. It is parents, friends, the lazy chat of
street and store and office, the ease of mind that makes life tranquil. It is
summer and winter, rain and sun and storm. These are flesh of our flesh,
bone of our bone, blood of our blood, a lasting part of what we are, each
of us and all of us together.
"It is stories told. It is the Pilgrims dying in their first dreadful winter.
It is the Minute Man standing his ground at Concord Bridge and dying
there. It is the army in rags, sick, freezing, starving at Valley Forge. It is
the wagons and the men on foot going westward over Cumberland Gap,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

floating down the great rivers, rolling over the great plains. It is the settler
hacking fiercely at the primeval forest on his new, his own lands. It is
Thoreau at Walden Pond, Lincoln at Cooper Union and Lee riding home
from Appomattox. It is corruption and disgrace, answered always by men
who would not let the Flag lie in the dust, whp have stood up in every
generation to fight for the old ideals and the old rights, at risk of ruin or of
life itself.
"It is a great multitude of people on pilgrimage, common and ordinary
people, charged with the usual human failings yet filled with such a hope
as never caught the imaginations and the hearts of any nation on earth
before. The hope of liberty. The hope of justice. The hope of a land in
which a man can stand straight, without fear, without rancor.
"The land and the people and the Flag-the land a continent, the people
of every race, the Flag a symbol of what humanity may aspire to when
wars are over and the barriers are down. To these each generation must
be dedicated and consecrated anew, to defend with life itself, if need be,
but, above all, in friendliness, in hope, in courage, to live for."
It might be well for the United States and Masonry to consider the
sentiment as expressed in the "New York Herald":·

.T HE GREAT PROOFREADER
When the story of Mammon is printed,
And the binder has laid down his tools;
When none of the facts have been stintedAnd the deeds of the wise and the fools
Have been written by prophets and sagesAnd bound in the rawhide of man;
Then God will blue-pencil its pages,
As only the Almighty can.
He will see the proud kings of the ages
As they rot in their filigreed graves,
And measure their virtue with gauges
That He'll use for both master and slaves;
While princes whose caskets were freighted
With laurel leaves, honors and flags,
May find that their souls have been rated
'Neath beggar-men buried in rags.
So in the long run it is better
To lead our lives humbly contrite;
Find truth, live up to the letter,
With hearts free from rancor and spite;
For the great proofreader is tracing
Man's record straight back to the flood,
And we hope for a merciful placing
In the book that is printed in blood.
Yours sincerely and fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman.
COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited, Chairman
A. T. Margan
Plez H. Guynn (M. No. 111)
Fred Clark
Harry L . Jaspar (P. M. No. 26)
Wallace Rohrbacker

320

321

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CO-ORDINATE BODIES

Next, a sustained program of charitable, educational and social activity.
Freemasonry will never be a dead institution as long as it does things. As
an individual you may help by withdrawing your support from extraneous
societies which have nothing to offer in a Masonic way and which only
sap the strength and finances of legitimate Masonic organizations. Not
how many degrees have you, but how well you practice those you have.
Finally, there should be more brotherhood. If we are to delay or to
ward off the dangers of class warfare, we must begin to reduce the feeling
of class consciousness. A friend of mine who has attained national prominence recently said to me:
"What this country needs right now is for men such as you and myself
who have attained a certain amount of prominence, to visit their Masonic
Lodges and sit beside their brethren, to speak to them in their own language,
and to make them feel, that after all we are brethren, made of the same
clay, and anxious and trying to do God's will justly and fairly. Man cannot
feel ill will toward their brethren while sitting within the tiled recesses of
a Masonic Lodge."

From a resume of the Proceedings there appears to be very little complaint as far as the activities of the co-ordinate bodies of Masonry are
concerned. There have been complaints in some jurisdictions as to their
operations, but generally speaking there has been little transgression of the
tenets of the Craft. There are, of course, members who at times take advantage in the various co-ordinate Bodies to exercise their personal privileges,
which are not in line with the Blue Lodge teachings.
We believe that discipline of these members should b~ handled through
the Blue Lodge rather than through any co-ordinate body. If the Masonic
authorities in the jurisdiction where these offenses occur will not take a
positive stand they will continue to have the same complaints. In a number
of jurisdictions where such offenses have occurred it will usually be found
that the co-ordinate Bodies, through Grand Lodge officers, are very closely
allied with those that operate what are usually called "the barnacles of Freemasonry." As we remember it, the Grand Master of Illinois corrected the
proposition in a short and summary manner.
Georgia ( 1938):
(Grand Master): There are some 250 organizations, membership in
which is predicated on Masonic membership. Their names are legion, some
of them fantastic, and some ridiculous. Among names we may cite are :
Beggars, Death, Old Souls, Running Footmen, etc. Some have their members parading in gaudy uniforms and indulging in foolishness in public,
which does not tend to increase respect for Masonry. It might be well to
consider prohibiting membership in any organization, except the York
Rite, ·Scottish Rite, the Sojourners (a military organization of Master
Masons), the Shrine, and such other bodies as are recognized to be dignified, until such body is first approved by Grand Lodge. Otherwise Master
Masons may be tempted to spend their money for that which is not liread
and their substance for that which profiteth not.
Missouri (1938):
(Grand Master): Where a few years ago we had only Lodge, Chapter,
Council and Commandery, today we have an auxiliary built upon the foundation of each-and not content with these, our brethren rush about in an
ambitious desire to learn more about co-masonry, adoptive masonry and
the like. Our juniors are urged to join Rainbow, Job's Daughters, Builders,
or the DeMolay; mothers and fathers are pushed into auxiliaries until we
begin to feel that the only field left is that of Infant Masonry, limited to
sons and daughters of milk-and-bottle age. Then we shall all be organized
and wait only for the millenium.
The dang:r is that of divided interest. Hundreds of men are frivoling
their time away with useless organizations when their efforts applied to the
promotion of Masonic ideals and Masonry would advance our interests
materially.
Our needs? Anything which will supply the an'.idote to the above named
evils. First, however, is leadership. The leadership of conservative, dignified and influential men-men who will attract other men and who have
influence in their commun.ity. If you want to do your part in such a constructive work, go out into your community and draft such a one. The fraternity .need not worry as to whether he can repeat the ritual forward or
backward or whether he knows his title to be "Worshipful," as long as he
has something in his heart and in his head.

North Dakota (1938):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Michigan has a law similar to
ours regarding the formation of organizations based on Masonic membership. The state association of "High Twelve" clubs asked for approval but
on recommendation of the jurisprudence committee this was refused, quite
rightly, we believe, on the ground that, while they were supposed to cooperate with the. local Lodges, they would not be in complete subordination
to and an agency of the Lodges. It is easy to see how they could develop
into an actual detriment.
Oregon ( 1938):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In th,e list of appendant orc!ers
on which the Grand Lodge placed its stamp of approval a year or two
ago, that of the Mystic Order of the Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted
Realm was missing; inasmuch as several Grottos were in existence in the
Jurisdiction, the question arose as to whether a Texas Mason could lawfully be a member. The Grand Master ruled that it was contrary to the
Code and ordered that all members sever all connections with the Grotto
which order was complied with. He also requested that Grand Monarch
of the Order to revoke the Charters then held in Texas which request was
immediately granted.'
Later in the year the Grand Master received a request or rather a
formal petition requesting that recognition be accorded the Grotto. This
petition he refe.r red to the Committee on Purposes and Policies who during
this session reported that the Grotto was a lily white organization and
should ·be permitted to flourish in Texas.
Oregon (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We wonder of whom the Grand
Master of West Virginia speaks when he says, "I have found certain
Lodges sorely vexed with the problem of parasitical organizations. It has
ever been true from remotest antiquity, that Masonry has b~en beset continuously with voluntary organizations made up from its own members,
which acquire their supposed respectability and prestige from their pretended connection with Masonry, and which flourish by sucking ·the life
blood out of the order itself. Our .country is full of them, some of them
are objectionable, some may even be respectable, but many are an outrage

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and disgrace to the Order, groups of nominal Masons who flaunt their connections with the Order before the world, and then proceed to exhibit
themselves in grotesque and even disgraceful publicity, which brings only
infamy to the Institution."

sion the Committee on Purposes and Policies (who had previously endorsed
the proposed action of Grand Master) reports on the Grotto subject, saying in substance that it did not approve what the Grand Master did." He
then quotes the report of the Committee, covering a separate and distinct
question, plainly set out by the Committee in that the first . part of the
Committee's report responding to the question (1) at issue is, doubtless by
oversight, omitted by the Reviewer, and now quoted by us: "The . . .
two questions are (1) the propriety. of Grand Master's action with respect
to the Grotto, and (2) a proposed amendment of Article 265' so as to
include · the Grotto among those organizations which Blue Lodges may
permit to use their Lodge rooms if the Blue Lodges so desire." The Committee's: "We beg leave to report on these two questions in the order
named. It appears that certain recent actions of this Grand Lodge were
such as to lead Grand Master to conclude that the course he took was not
only appropriate, but perhaps was required in order to conform policy
during the current year with that established by the recent prior actions
referred to. Indeed, the members of this Committee are frank to say that
Grand Master asked for and received our approval of his handling of this
matter at the time he took the action referred to.

322

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondmce Committee): Although he did not mention the
name of any particular organization yet he was outspoken in his opposition
of allowing any organization not absolutely Masonic from meeting in the
Lodge rooms of the Craft. Why should they wish to be recognized by
Grand Lodge-why can they not go their own way and do their own work
without desiring to be known as bearing even a resemblance to Masonry
are questioas he would like answered.
This writer is taking a long shot in the dark and were he a betting
man would lay odds that eventually the girls will win.

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Nebraska
made several recommendations, two of which bear recording here. "A law
prohibiting any organization having Masonic prerequisites for membership
and recognized by the Grand Lodge, from sponsoring any outside organization without first obtaining the consent of the Grand Lodge." This
received the endorsement of the delegates.
The second recommendation did not share favorable action at the
hands of the delegates and was to the effect that "to apply to any Scottish
Rite or York Rite body for the degrees therein until such petitioner shall
have complied with the provisions of Section 66 of the Grand Lodge Law
as to proficiency."
In the latter case, this writer agrees with the action of the delegates
in refusing to pass useless legislation. Such a regulation simply makes it
necessary that some Brother spend his time teaching another individual
a certain ritual in which he is not interested and for which he will have no
further use after being examined. Such individuals do not join a Lodge
because of a desire to be a Mason but rather because the law requires them
to do so in otder to later on affiliate themselves with the playboys of the
red fez. It is just as impossible to make a Mason of a· man with a Shrine
mentality as it is to make people moral by passing laws.
Texas (1938):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master of Texas says
there are "some 250 organizations, membership in which is predicated on
Masonic (nembership. Their names are legion, some of them fantastic, and
some ridiculous. Among the names we may cite are: Beggars, Death, Old
Souls, Running Footmen, etc." Well, he suggested the considering of
prohibiting membership to certain of these or others until approved by
Grand Lodge. But even so, his views of these barnacles are still too
liberal for our endorsement. And if Grand Lodge gave his suggestion any
consideration we fail to find it.
Texas (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Taking our M:. W.". Grand
Master Rice to task on his reported dealing with the Grotto, Mystic Order
Veiled .Prophets of the Enchanted Realm, under his (the Correspondent's)
subheading: "He Put Ban on Grotto," North Carolina says, "Evidently
there must have been some misunderstanding of facts, for later in the ses-

323

"Under these circumstances we think Grand Master's action in respect
to the Grotto should be approved, provided that such approval be understood in connection with our further recommendation with respect to the
proposed amendment of Article 265."
And then follows another unfortunate fling: "One comes to the conclusion that because the Grotto was not found in west Texas (the home
of Grand Master Rice is El Paso, in the extreme western point of Texas)
and he did not know anything about it at first hand but had heard some
derogatory reports, the Grand Master acted without sufficient information,
etc." Following this with his (Brother Allen's) most general charges versus
misguided Grottos, Craft Lodges who "do putrid things," Shrine Temples
guilty of acts "far from commendable," some individual Masons who are
"a stench in the nostrils of decency and get away with it," as illustrations
of, in his estimation, the wild and inexcusable act of Grand Master Rice
in putting the "ban on the Grotto"; he fixes the injunction: "There's too
much of this wholesale generalization." How appropriate that other injunction "beware lest you fall victim to your own trap." The Grotto was never
charged with an overt act, other than the violation of the established law
of Grand Lodge by entering Texas without permission or approval. Get
the substance of this "law" by reference to Texas Proceedings, 1936,
pp. 376-377.
And now with our space already more than consumed, we read: "Fly
Thought. There Are Too Many Organizations." ,
Yes sir, and we still think so; and we insist on denominating a larger
part of the estimated more than 300 of these, as Barnacles, despite our
good Brother Allen's emphatic declaration that : "They are not barnacles."
Though our voice be considered as but that of "ululation," smothered in
the fogs of "jeremiad," we do most earnestly insist that the Grand Lodge
of a given Grand Jurisdiction should never submit to the voluntary organization, within its Jurisdiction, under the name or credit, directly nor indirectly of Masonry, without its authorization, supervision and direct control. That we of Texas have drifted a long way from such moorings, and
possibly "for keeps," by long sufferance, goes without the saying. To such a
fixed rule, there are, as nearly always, certain perfectly natural and legitimate exceptions. These we undertook to catalogue in the "Whereases" and
"Therefores" and for which we are, of course good humoredly, quite

324

PROCEEDINGS OF .T HE

severely criticized by our good friend and brother Allen. Now here are
some of his "ululations": My, my, "It (our 'therefoi:es') omits the Shrine
and the Grotto, so ,we infer that these. are thus declared not to be Masonic
. . . , what is gained by their solemnly declaring that the Royal Order of
Scotland js recognized in Texas and by their leaving the Shrine out of the
list? . . . What about the Grand Councils of the Order of the Anointed
High Priesthood?"
We must admit that we have never been much of a "jiner," though
we have been a Shriner for a few decades, and until now we have never
heard of one of Brother Allen's known ability as a Masonic schofar to
even intimate the thought of the Shrine . being a Masonic Order. No,
Brother, the Shrine, however much we may love it, is never to be so listed.
The "Royal Order of Scotland," like the " Order of High Priesthood,"
belong in the list of "Masonic Orders," and but for our personal oversight,
the last named would doubtless now appear · with the first named in the .
Texas list of "organizations or bodies declared to be Masonic." Answering .
as to the "Grotto." This is but one of the multiplicity of such unauthorized
(at least in T.exas ) organizations, based on the prerequisite of Masonic
affiliation, and deliberately left in the category of those who must first
secure their authenticated passport into the grand jurisdiction of Texas,
when there to ply its activities.
COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
The functions of the Committee on Correspondence can be traced back
to Revolutionary days. In order to maintain contacts between the various
Colonies committees were appointed for this purpose, and afterward this
procedure among Grand Lodges was adopted in order that the members
might be informed of what was transpiring in the different jurisdictions.
The Chairman, or Correspondence Committee of any jurisdiction, after
reviewing the Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges, is perhaps in a
better position to give to the Craft what has occurred during the preceding
year. The forewords of the chairmen of a number of jurisdictions, some
of which follow, are perhaps the best index as to what is taking place in
Masonry at the present time.
Florida (1939):
(Grand Lodge) : The Committee on Foreign Correspondence reported having
reviewed all Proceedings received and recommen·d ed that same be published
as usual, etc. However, the Proceedings carry no such reviews. In the
absence of other explanation of such omission, we quote from a "Supplemental Report of Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence" : "We respectfully .recommend that the Foreign Correspondence Report as printed in our
1938 Proceedings be expunged from the record and that the incoming
Grand Master and Grand Secretary promptly notify Grand Jurisdictions
with which the Grand Lodge of Florida sustains fraternal relations of this
action . . .. We further recommend that the compilation and printing of
the usual reviews of foreign Grand Jurisdictions be discontinued for the
present."
Illinois (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The reports of Grand Masters,
Grand Secretaries and various Grand Lodge Committees afford ample proof
that Freemasonry is in a strong and healthy condition throughout the
world except in those countries where it has been wholly suppressed and
practically annihilated by the unreasoning prejudice, stupid ignorance, and

GRAND LODGE OF. CALIFORNIA

325

wicked intolerance of the few men who at present wield autocratic power.
In one of these countries, torn by civil warfare unequalled for cruelty,
destructiveness, and hideous barbarity in the entire history of the world,
large numbers of Freemasons have been forced to face firing squads simply
because they were Masons. In another Godless country still larger numbers
of Freemasons, solely because they were Masons, were arrested, thrown into
concentration camps, ruthlessly stripped of all their possessions and then
exiled to foreign countries, broken and penniless. Many starved or perished
from lack of clothing and shelter and many others would have suffered
similar fates but for the donations from Grand Lodges in this country and
from humanitarians in and outside the fraternity. The dictator in that
unhappy country has assured his deluded followers that the Freemasons
and Jews, few as they are, perhaps not more than one in one hundred of
the total population, are wholly responsible for this second world war
which now threatens to devastate the entire world. Fantastic, absurd, and
false as the suggestion is, doubtless, many believe it. What else can be
·hoped for in a country where freedom of speech and of the press has been
suppressed and where it is a capital offense to listen to radio broadcasts
from other countries?
But we have wandered from the subject on which we wished to speak,
influenced, perhaps, by our futile anger and emotions. Finances, that is
the subject from which we strayed. It is a matter for congratulation that
in only two or three Grand Lodges has the problem of financing the customary Grand Lodge activities assumed major proportions. But even here
the question seems not to be one which need cause serious anxiety. Careful budgeting and sound business management are all that. are needed to
put these Grand Lodges on a sound financial footing.
The steady loss in membership during the last seven or eight years is
a matter of graver concern than some Grand Masters have seemed to
regarcl it. A few Grand Lodges have shown gains, but there are still
heavy losses in most of the Grand Jurisdictions in this country. For the
first year or two of this downward trend Grand Masters appeared not to
be worried, and some even expressed the opinion that it was a healthy
sign as the Grand Lodges were pruning out dead material and this they
thought would leave them in a sounder and healthier condition. The downward tr.end, however, has steadily continued for seven or eight years, and
the loss of seven hundred fifty thousand or a million members in that
short time is not a matter to be ignored, unpleasant though it may be. If
a discussion of the question is to be of any use, we must strive to find the
answers to two questions and these are, what is the cause and what is the
remedy for this apparently abnormal loss in membership? There are probably two main causes, Indifference and Hard Times. Regarding the second
cause, we probably shall not be able to do much about that. It suggests
the observation of Mark Twain abou.J: the weather, "We all talk about it,
but no one seems able to do anything about it." Hard times manifestly
tends to reduce Masonic membership in two ways, it causes indifferent
members to allow their memberships to lapse for nonpayment of dues, and
it .keeps . many good and desirable men from applying for membership. The
remedy which we shall suggest for loss in membership is not to reduce
Lodge and Grand Lodge dues nor to reduce the fees for degrees, these
are probably already too low. No one ever received so much for so little.
Much good has been accomplished by having competent Lodge committees
contact every member, whose membership is endangered by nonpayfnent
of dues, urging him to pay his dues if he is able to do so, and securing
remission of dues for those unable or to<;> poor to pay them. Much has
also been accomplished by having committees c9ntact those already sus-

..
326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

pended and inducing them to seek restoration, although this suggests the
old adage about locking the barn door after the horse has been stolen. fo
our opinion none of the above ways is adequate, no matter how successful
one or all of them might be in particular instances.
In the long run, the principal and practically the only way, by which
a Lodge can increase its membership is by receiving petitions and conferring degrees. We .would by no means relax the rule forbidding the
soliciting of petitions for degrees. We hope every Mason will always be
able to truthfully say that he was prompted to solicit the privileges of
Freemasonry of his own free will and accord, unbiased by friends and
uninfluenced by mercenary motives, because of a favorable opinion conceived of the institution. In my humble opinion the only legitimate way
to increase Masonic membership is by so living and conducting ourselves
so that good men everywhere shall continue in greater numbers than heretofore to form a favorable opinion of Freemasonry and for that reason
shall in greater numbers seek membership in the fraternity. Let us live
such exemplary and honorable lives as men and Masons and as loyal and
patriotic citizens that the ancient prestige and honorable reputation of the
Institution may be restored and good men shall vie with each other for .
membership. It is only by establishing and maintaining an enviable reputation based on real worth and character that we may hope to acquire such
prestige that good and suitable men will be attracted to our ranks. Fifty
years ago it was a greater honor and distinction to be a Mason than it is
now. Let us reverse this and make it a greater distinction and honor to be
a Mason now than it has ever been. That will end our membership problem and financial worries.
North Dakota (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Past Grand Master Edwin D.
Crites, as usual, gives his correspondence report in topical form. He has
a good sharp pair of shears and uses judgment in what he clips, but believe
he would be using his ability to better advantage to his readers in writing
individ.u al reviews. It might take more time but we are sure t'hat the number of his readers would be greatly increased, or an occasional comment
on some of the clippings would be well worth while.
Oregon (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): During the past year, the sixth
that I have functioned as your Foreign Correspondent, I have journeyed
throughout the Masonic world through the medium of the Proceedings of
the various jurisdictions, of which sixty-four have come to my desk.
I have recorded such items which I felt would be of particular interest
to you, along with figures and statistics which would enable you to compare the per capita cost of the various activities of other jurisdictions with
the per capita cost of like activities in your own.
Conditions in general throughout the Craft showed improvement,
attendance increased, applications for the degrees likewise were more
numerous, while losses through exclusion for non-payment of dues were
distinctly less, but they were of sufficient number along with the natural
reduction through death, to offset all increase and result in a reduction of
total membership for the year 1938. This loss for the year was so small
compared to that of any year since 1930 as to lead one to confidently believe
that the time was near at hand when an actual increase will be the order.
This writer expects that this increase will be slow, basing his con•victions on several factors. Of these the most important is the rapidly

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

327

increasing average age of the men making up our membership, due to the
dearth of young men during the past decade who were financially able to
meet the expenditure necessitated in joining a Lodge. This ageing of our
membership naturally will result in an increase in the percentage death rate.
The second factor has to do with the young men of the present time.
Their difficulties are in the majority of instances financial. In some the
lack of regular employment makes for uncertainty of the future and necessitates retrenchment in present expenditures. Others although gainfully
employed, have an apparent need, together with an overwhelming desire,
which when brought in contact with present day sales methods results in a
finance company hol~ing a mortgage on his earnings for several years and
he the owner in appearance at least, of a motor car. The social standing
of a young man of today depends more on his ability to go places with
gasoline than it does on his affiliation or membership in a fraternal organization.
These tendencies and conditions lead your Reviewer to feel that
Masonry's appeal in the future in this country will in the main be heard
by men who have attained some degree of financial, social and economic
stability.
Texas (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It's a delight to find after these
years since 1932, the return of the published Reviews of ou'r so highly
esteemed and accomplished Brother Correspondent, Past Grand Master
Raymund Daniel (Georgia). The writings of few men are so universally
and consistently imbued with the spirit of friendship and brotherly love
as are those of Brother Daniel. Ever kind, considerate and tolerant. Witness: In his treatment of Texas 1937, having referred to our recognition
of the five State Grand Lodge of Mexico, he exclaims, as we interpret it,
as a wave of sympathy to the departing glory of a Grand Lodge heretofore exercising exclusive territorial jurisdiction over the more than 27
States of a Republic: "Shades of exclusive jurisdiction, how ye must suffer!"
West Australia (1939):
(Reviewer): There is in that sentence a seeming wistful memory of the
time when the skilled workman was not restricted in the space necessary
for his skill to .manifest its excellence in what it produced. And whilst
realizing that. it is not his affair but that of Kansas, the reviewer still wonders, as he did less than five years ago, why it is that for economical or
other reasons, the Correspondence is the first to receive the disastrous attentions of the economical-minded, as though Masonic enlightenment is a
luxury and not a necessity of Masonic life.
Wisconsin (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The symbolism of Masonry is
largely taken from the building trades and in these trades the. trestle-board
is of deep significance, for the beauty, strength and usefulness of a building
depend largely on the designs prepared for its construction by men skilled
in the art. It is no less true that the beauty, strength and usefulness of a
man are largely dependent on the designs which he inscribes on the trestleboard of his soul. No man achieves any great measure of success in life
unless he lives his life in conformity to some preconceived plan. He must
have some definite objective in life; some ideal toward which he is striving.
Just as the architect must spend years in studv and observation before

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

he has the requisite skill to design a beautiful building, so must we, as men
and Masons, prepare ourselves for the art of living by careful study of the
designs for living laid down by the great and good men who have lived
before us.
The officers of many Lodges are complaining that. they have no work,
that the brethren are losing interest and no longer attend Lodge. Our
ancient brethren, working in operative Masonry, were wont to draw their
designs upon the trestle-board, and when there were no designs drawn, the
Craftsmen were idle and confusion resulted. It is just as true today in
Speculative Masonry ; unless there are plans made for the Craftsmen there
will be idleness and confusion, a loss of interest and a falling off in membership. It is not enough to hold meetings twice a month, allow bills, confer
an occasional degree, and eat an occasional lunch. Man is essentially
creative in his instincts ; he must be given something to do which will make
him feel that he has a distinctive place in the Fraternity. It is the duty of
the Master to see that there are "designs drawn upon the trestle-board" ;
that "there is work laid out" for as large a part of the membership as possible. It is therefore essential that in choosing the Master of a Lodge, you
choose some one who has a genius for leadership; who is a skilled designer
and has the love of Masonry ingrained into his very soul.
What designs can be drawn upon the trestle-board?
If the Lodge has a great deal of degree work, Degree Teams can be
organized, and those who would otherwise tire of sitting on the side-lines
and watching the same degree conferred time after time would t ake a keen
interest in perfecting their work; a friendly rivalry would grow up to see
which team could reach the highest degree of perfection; and the brethren
could get a line on the best material for future officers.
Study and discussion groups could be arranged and they could present
papers on Masonic History and Symbolism before the Lodge. There is so
much misinformation about Masonic History, it is high time that the
brethren be given some authentic information.
Social gatherings could be encourag ed and some of the brethren
appointed to plan for and carry them out. The wives of Masons should
be included in these social events and they would soon get over the idea
that the Masonic Temple is a place where the husband goes to escape from
his family. Masonry would secure their good will and their husbands would
be urged by them to attend Lodge.
Masonic Play groups can be organized and plays put on in the local
L odge and in the neighboring Lodges, thereby promoting interest in
Mastmry, increasing Lodge attendance and creating a true feeling of
brotherhood between Lodges.
Such are a few of the designs which can be drawn upon the trestleboard; their number is limited only by the resourcefulness, energy and
enthusiasm of the Lodge Officers.
EDUCATION .
Public Schools Week, established by P. G. M. Charles Albert Adams,
has received for seventeen years the commendation of the Chairmen of Correspondence Committees of the various Grand Lodges. It appears to be an
activity in Masonry that is well worth while. A number of states have
adopted the same plan.
The work of the Research Lodges of North Carolina, Missouri, Oregon
and New York have produced results that will help Masonry. The Research

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOl<NIA

~29

Lodges are a field for Masonic students, of whom there are very few but it
gives them an opportunity to present to the Fraternity the earnest work
that they have done in endeavoring to supply to their respective jurisdictions
service along Masonic lines. There are 'only a few interested in research
work and Masonic education, but the assistance that has been given them
by Grand Lodges has produced results.
.
Oregon (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Lodge system of education
(Arizona) which was adopted a few years ago, has, to a considerable extent
proved a failure. This can be attributed to its use not having been mad~
obligatory. Has any one ever seen anything succeed anywhere that has
been left to the free will of a group?

•

•

•

It has been this writer's obse.r vation that wherever the Lodge System
of Education has failed to function to the best advantage, it is invariably
found in those jurisdictions that have not made its use mandatory. In this
case i~ is not only necessary to lead the horse to water, but absolutely
essential that he be made to drink.
Texas (1939)
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : In addition to his rather abbreviated· but excellently prepared report of Reviews, ipcluding Texas,
1937, Past Grand Master J ohn Milne, Correspondent, makes direct report to
Grand Lodge, wherein he points to and discusses in a vein that rather
approaches that of alarm, the heretofore losses in membership, especially
in the United States. In this he finds that "something is radically wrong"
with the organization of Masonry. May we suggest, not with t he organization of Masonry itself but with the present day tendency toward the yield~
ing up of the dignity, the unique system and high calling of Masonry, to a
common plane of other human, mushroom organizations civic sectarian
social and political in nature, and especially those who see' fit to 'counterfei~
or make use of the faith and credit of Freemasonry.
FUNERALS
There are a number of Funeral Rituals which might be brought up
to the present conception of what a Funeral Service should be, not a
replica of the old-time ceremony, which was one of harrowing sorrow.
The main complaint as to Masonic funerals at the present time is that
while the Ritual is sufficient, the Master, or some one else officiating, has
never had experience and, therefore, in a service of this kind, produces an
unfavorable impression on Masons and non-Masons attending.
Louisiana (1940):
(Grand Master): The performing of the last rites over the body of a
deceased Brother is one of the most sacred and solemn duties that any
Masonic Lodge is ever called upon to do. The right of a Masonic burial
has come to be regarded as universal in this country. The burial privilege
should be so dear to every Mason's heart and so conducive to increasing
the harmony and love among members, that the Worshipful Master and
Officers of a Masonic Lodge knowing that death's shafts fall indiscriminately and without warning ·will make every effort toward perfecting themselves in regard to the burial service, that it can, upon all occasions be

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

creditably performed. All too little attention has been paid to this most
valuable function of ours. The average member has little conception as to
where his duty lies when the call comes for the Lodge to perform this rite.
The average Masonic burial is performed by officers who give every indication that the undertaking in which they are engaged is something unfamiliar to them and that they are not well grounded in their respective
duties. This coupled with the fact that there are as a rule hardly more
than a handful of brethren present to assist, hardly speaks well for the
esteem that the deceased Brother was held in the eyes of the Fraternity.
This is not a product of the imagination. Time after time I have witnessed the conducting of a Masonic burial when it would have been far
better for all concerned had it been omitted. If we are to continue so, we
are not conducting the burial of a deceased Brother but are in fact conducting the burial of the Masonic Fraternity iri the eyes of the world. I
have placed this matter squarely before the officers of every Lodge in this
district, stressing the necessity for a more diligent attention to this branch
of our service. Where the information is available since we have been
stressing this point, the reports are that the Masonic funerals have been
better attended and the ritualistic deliverance more impressive.
I have encouraged the use of the dispensation that permits a Lodge to
conduct its burial service under the perpetual "Lodge of Sorrow." By
eliminating the time necessary to open and close a Lodge it is found that
more brethren are in a position to leave their work and be in attendance.
• • • etc.

recorded as being M:aster of a Lodge in 1722. He is also recorded as a member of "Original Lodge, No. 4."
.
He was ordered by the Grand Master, His Grace the Duke of Montague, in 1721 to digest and revise the Old Manuscript and Gothic Constitutions, and submit the revised editions to Grand Lodge.
This he did early in 1723, when he appeared in Grand Lodge as Grand
Junior Warden.
The revised Constitutions were approved by Grand Lodge and remained in force until 1738 when Anderson, on instructions fro'm Grand
Lodge, submitted a second revised edition of the Constitutions.
This edition was approved by Grand Lodge, and this proved his last
great work for Freemasonry, as he was called to the Grand Lodge above
on the 28th of May, 1739, just two hundred years ago yesterday. He' was
interred in Bunhill Fields cemetery.
His pall was <;arried by five dissenting teachers and the Rev. Bro. Dr.
Desaqulier. It was followed by about twelve Freemasons, who encircled
the grave; and after Dr. Earle had spoken on the uncertainty of life, the
Brethren, in most solemn manner, lifted up their hands, and then struck
their Aprons three times in honor to the deceased.
In this brief sketch I have dealt only with the Masonic side of his life
and for his deep devotion to the Fraternity his name should be gratefull;
remembered as long as Freemasonry exists.
As a Minister of the Church he was a forceful preacher being a
'
Calvinist of the John Knox stamp.
He also was an eminent writer, but in those days as a Non-Conformist
he met with great opposition.

,330

"THE FOUNDING FATHERS"
There were two men so far as Masonk History records that were
responsible for changing Masonry from Operative into Speculative; one
was James Anderson, and the other was John D. Desaguliers.
The history of these two men is presented with the thought that we
will realize what these ancient brethren accomplished by their work of the
early days.
Queensland (1939):
(Past Grand Master): Who Was Jas. Anderson? History is very
meager and contradictory in relation to this brother, but his father, one
Jas. Anderson, was a substantial Burger of Aberdeen who was also a member of a Lodge in Aberdeen for 50 years, and is recorded as Master of this
Lodge, "by the Grace of God," on two occasions, viz., the years 1688 and
1694.
He had two sons, James and Adam, and although the actual date of
the birth of the elder son, James, is not known, it is recorded that he was
born in Aberdeen in about 1680, and was educated in that town, at the
Marischal College, and took the degree of M. A., and became Pastor in the
Presbyterian Church.
In this capacity he officiated in several parts of Scotland, but between
the years 1705 and 1710 he appeared in London as minister of the Scotch
Church in Swallow Street, St. James, Westminster.
In 1731, the University of Aberdeen conferred upon him a Doctor's
Degree in Divinity: "He being a gentleman well known for his extensive
learning."
He was also Chaplain to the Rt. Hon. David, Earl of Buchan.
There is no record of his having been initiated into a Lodge, but he is
0

331

The Grand Lodge of England
The history of the formation of the Grand Lodge of England is well
known to you all, but it is essential to refer to it tonight to enable us to
recognize the tremendous amount of work that was formed by such men
as the Rev. Bro. J. T. Desaqulier and Bro. Geo. Payne, both of whom had
been Grand Masters; the Rev. Bro. Jas. Anderson, Bro. William Cowper,
and others.
·
Prior to 1717 there were a number of Lodges in Great Britain which
were .what is known as professional or Craft Lodges; that is, they ~ere the
remams of the Operative Masons who, owing to the decline of Church
building, found themselves almost in a position of extinction.
Each of these Lodges was an independent body unto itself which
proved added weakness to the whole Masonic body.
Early in 1717, four of these Lodges, for their own protection amalgamated, and this new body was called the Grand Lodge of Engl~nd thus
beco~in~ the 1;1other Grand Lodge of the world. During the first six ~ears,
from its mcepbon, from 1717 to 1723, no records of the proceedings were
kept, but 15 years later, when the Rev. Bro. Jas. Anderson submitted his
second rev~sion of t?e. Constitutions, he was instructed to write the history
of that period, and 1t 1s recorded that the number of Lodges had increased
from the four original Lodges to 30. In the year 1723, "William Cowper,
Esq., a Bro. of the Horn Lodge at vVestminster," became the first Secretary
of Grand Lodge.
From this date Freemasonry advanced very rapidly, and it would appear
that the. idea. in the minds of those men was to establish an International
Brotherhood of Man.
A Grand Lodge was formed in Irela.nd i~ 1729, followed by the Grand

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge ,of Scotland in 1736. France, America, and other parts of the world
Lodges were formed either directly connected with or recognized by the
Granp Lodge of England; and these accepted the Constitutions of Rev. Bro.
J as. Ari Cler son.
Masonry had possessed since the 15th century if not earlier a set of
ordinances of their own as well as a Traditional Hi~tory. These h~ve come
down to us in several forms, and it was with these that Anderson had to
deal.
. If you peruse our Book of Constitutions commencing on page 3, you
will fi.nd "The Charges of a Freemason, etc., etc.," and if you compare these,
and, m fact, the whole Constitution, with the original manuscript as well
as with the revised Constitutions by J as. Anderson, you will find that
although the verbiage is in accord with the times in which they wer~
written, the text, principles and tenets are identical.
There are many items of comparison and interest in the Anderson
Constitutions which could be dealt with tonight, if time permitted but I
propose only to briefly deal with two of these items.
'
(1} "That it is not in the power of any man or body of men to make
any alteration, or innovation in the Body of Masonry."
This has become, with us, one of the landmarks of today's Freemasonry,
and every Master-Elect solemnly accepts it when taking his obligation as
Master of a Lodge. Thus is Freemasonry kept pure.

It established the Craft into a "Fraternity," in . which, Unity of the
whole gave strength and legal right to the individual whilst he continued
a member of the Order. It gave us a democratic form of · government, in
that, all being equal, we elect our rulers annually and all business is determined by the vote of the majority.
It did away with intolerance in any form and introduced the practice
of Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth.
It became influential in diffusing the light of Wisdom, in aiding the
strength of Reason, in illustrating the beauties of Virtue, and in lessening
the aggregate of human misery and distress.
Unfortunately, the ·Church, which, under the old regulations, we, as
Operative Masons, had been associated with for hundreds of years in building cathedrals, monasteries and abbeys, and helping financially to maintain
throughout the world, decided no longer to countenance us as speculative
Masons ; for on the 28th of April, 1738, Pope Clement XU issued a Papal
Bull, which has since been enacted by his successors, condemning Fre4'!masonry.
A Papal Bull is an edict with the seal and signature of the Pope. It
derives its -name from the leaden seal which is attached by a hempen or silk
cord. This, in medieval Latin is called " Bulla." According to these Bulls a
Freemason is excommunicated, and thus deprived of all spiritual privileges,
and rights of burial when dead.
Therefore, all Roman Catholics are enjoined in the name of the Holy
Obedience, neither to enter the Society of Freemasons, or to disseminate
its principles, to defend it, or to admit or to conceal it within their homes
or palaces or elsewhere, under the pain of excommunication, with death and
confiscation of property, without the hope of mercy.
In England, Papal Bulls were forbidden to be printed, but in R. C.
countries such as France, Belgium, Italy, Spain, etc., where there were no
such restrictions, it had tremendous force, particularly at that time.
In France, it proved particularly destructive to Freemasonry, as the
then Grand Lodge of France very largely c·o nsisted of members of the
French aristocracy.
These, rather than face excommunication, withdrew from the Craft,
thus leaving Freemasonry in the hands of men with, perhaps, less religious
scruples, but with more defiant courage.
These, owing to intense persecution, even to torture and death by the
secular arm of the church, dropped out of sight, and thus became, for the
time being, a Secret Society, but they were engaged in active political work
against the Church.
The Grand Lodge of France had disappeared, but in 1771 the Grand
Orient of France took its place, and it is reported that Freemasons of this
Grand Lodge took an active part in the storming of the Bastille in 1789.
In 1787 a Lodge was founded in Rome, in a locality known as Mount
Trinity under the eyes of the Inquisition authorities. The Lodge started
with seven members, viz., five Frenchmen, one Pole and one American.
It was known as the "Lodge of Reunion of True Friends." It existed
for two years and in that time increased its membership to 80.
It was in touch with the Grand Orient of France, the Grand Lodge of
England and several other Lodges. It was raided by the Inquisition
authorities on the 27th day of December, 1789-St. John the Evangelist's
Day.
The Inquisition authorities were spying on one Joseph Balsamo, known

332

(2) In the year A. D. 926 the old regulation read:
"Every Mason shall cultivate brotherly love and the love of God, and
frequent the Holy Church."
In 1663 this regulation was altered to read: "That ye shall be true men
of God and the Holy Church, and use no error or heresy by your under-.
standing, and by wise men's teaching."
Dr. Anderson, being a Presbyterian minister, could not continue to
accept this, so he submitted that all that was necessary was, "that every
Mason should belong to that religion in which all men agree, leaving their
particular creed to themselves." So we obtained the first great acknowledgment in Freemasonry, "that we put our trust in God."
It was also provided that discussion on politics or religion in the body
of Masonry was to be avoided.
This latter has also become a landmark of the Order of today.
The suggested breaking away from the Holy Church caused much discussion in Grand Lodge, because it appeared to be making an innovation
in ~asonry, but it was eventually approve.d by Grand Lodge, and thus we
obtained, not only our religious freedom, but also a universality we should
not have attained if we had continued our adherence to the one Church.
The first expansion outside the Christian faith was in 1732, when a Jew
was .admitted into Freemasonry. Since then, they have been among our
strongest supporters.
T~e conditions in England at the beginning of the 18th century were
very different to what we are accustomed to in the middle of the twentieth
century. We recognize the leniency of our laws toward offenders and the
freedom of the individual, but in 1717 there were at last -160 crim~s in the
calendar which were punishable by death, whilst the mode of living then
would. be intolerable to us now.
It was in such adverse conditions that speculative Freemasonry was
born: and. it 'taught the individual Mason self-discipline, morality, integrity
and mtelhgence, thereby helping in that great spi,ritual uplift of mankind.

333

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as Count Kal-yos-tro, who was a Mason, but not a member of the True
Friends League. He was captured by the Secular Arm of the Church, but
the Lodge was warned of the raid and all escaped, losing only a few of
their documents' and the furniture of the Lodge.
It was events of this kind that made the Latin Freemasons remove the
V. S. L. from their Altars and replace it with the terms "Liberty," "Fraternity," and "Equality." Consequently, the Grand Lodge of England,
which in 1760 definitely adopted that the V. S. L. should be a portion of
the permanent furniture of its Lodges, together with other English speaking Grand Lodges, withdrew recognition of the Grand Orients of France
and Belgium, etc. So that from this date came to an end, the beautiful
vision of Universal International Brotherhood which appeared to be the
aim of those early speculative Masons when they laid down the basis of
our Constitution and Ritual.
On this night of commemoration of the Rev. Bro. Jas. Anderson we
can be grateful that the English speaking Lodges have strictly adhered to
the Ancient Landmarks of the Order and have carefully avoided political
and religious discussions, have honored the King and supported his throne,
and founded our Masonic Faith on the Great A. 0. T. U., and so long as we
carry out these principles, Freemasonry will continue to advance side by
side with our glorious Empire which may the G. A. 0. T. U. ever preserve.
So mote it be.

long time the nobility had been fed only insult and humiliation, and had
been employed only in the army or kept merely as courtiers.
What of Masonry at this period? Today we hear in the lecture of the
second degree these words, "Our Ancient Brethren Wrought in Operative
Masonry." This is literally true. Masonry at the beginning of the 18th
century was limited to Guilds of Operative Masons. It was these early
Guilds that had erected the magnificent cathedrals of England and France,
of Germany and Italy. From these cathedrals came the early fame of
the Guilds that ripened into prosperity, influence, prestige.
Masons, proud of their position, kept the basic principles of building,
the practices of the trade, as closely guarded secrets of the Fraternity known
only to themselves. Revealed to initiates only in their tiled meetings, these
professional secrets and the esoteric nature of their liturgy combined to
weave a spell that later drew all eyes to Freemasonry. ·
In a firmament emblazoned with the figures of kings and nobles, of
stone masons and cathedrals, on the 12th day of March, 1683, in the city
of Rochelle, France, a Star was Born. There were no fanfare of trumpets,
no herald angels singing, "Peace on Earth, Good Will Toward Men." But
there must have been joy in the Celestial Lodge above, as Divine Providence
sent into the world a New Hope. A babe came to the humble home of a
French Huguenot clergyman, a son, who, when he grew to man's estate
was destined to create a force so powerful that its influence carried into
every phase of the lives of all who lived after him, a force which reached
to the very foundation of civilization and changed the destiny of man, a
force which gave to man a liberty he . had never before experienced and
which has been called the Forefather of Democracy.
Two years later Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes, which had
for nearly a century assured to French Protestants a religious liberty and a
legal status. As a result of the Revocation thousands of loyal French were
driven into exile. Among those who were forced to flee was this Huguenot
clergyman, John D. Desaguliers. Escape was difficult and dangerous, but
hiding his two year old son, John Theophilus, in a wine cask which was
loaded on a ship bound for England, Desaguliers managed to find refuge.
It is to be regretted that so little is known of this babe of the wine
cask--0nly the scanty Masonic records and a few contemporary noticesbecause Freemasonry and modern civilization owe more to him than to any
other person of the 18th century. ·
The Rev. John D. Desaguliers became chaplain of a French Huguenot
chur~h in London and there personally guided the training of his son in
the classical languages. Later, with the assistance of the boy, then only in
his teens, he founded a school at Islington. Thus at an early age, this
youth formed the habit of molding other's minds. He never lost that habit.
He became the great pedagogue of Hanoverian England.
After the death of his father, John Theophilus Desaguliers decided to
finish his studies at Oxford, where he attained fame in Experimental
Philosophy, or Science. He was given the chair of Experimental Philosophy
in Christ Church College and acclaimed the great authority of all Europe.
• In )713 he left Oxford for London, taking spacious quarters, and in
them gav~ lectures. Thus he became the first public lecturer on Science in
Europe. Success immediately greeted his audacious enterprise, because the
people of London had never seen anything like this. They crowded his
quarters. He became the fashion. The greatest noblemen of his time
honored his courses wi!h their attendance and him with their friendship.
He became one of the most important personages of all Londop, the intimate of the illustrious Sir Isaac Newton. He was elected "Fellow of the

334

Washington (19.39):
(Grand Orator): The history of the world is the story of its great men.
They have been the modelers, they have been the patterns of whatsoever
the general mass of men have contrived to do or attain. All things that
we see standing accomplished in the world are the material result, the practical realization and embodiment of the thoughts that dwelt in the great
men sent into the world.
Some men, we are told, have become great :because opportunity has
made them so. Others have attained distinction because they thems.elves
created the vehicles which carried their influence to posterity. Some of these
men have received the plaudits of countless millions. Others, even some of
the greatest of them, have passed all unnoticed, their names unheralded,
their fame unsung. One of these we shall discuss for a moment, one who
lived at the beginning of the 18th century. Inasmuch as present day historians state that we owe much of our modern civilization to the leaders of
that century, first let us prepare for him a brief historical background.
Prior to the early years of the 18th century it was quite generally
accepted throughout Europe that the essential principles upon which established order everywhere rested were the supreme authority of the Church; a
dogmatic Christianity; the divine right of kings; heredity, and its resultant
-inequality. There were wars-much more than there was peace; wars that
sometimes dragged on for generations, struggles not only between nations,
but continuous strife within-strife between the kings and the nobility, the
nobility and the middle classes, often between several of the stronger houses
of the nobility where all sought command of the throne at the same time.
In such a struggle in England, the House of Hanover, which represented protestantism and liberalism, was jus.t emerging victorious over the
Stuarts. Under Hanover the nobility had been granted broader privileges
which made them the envy of the rest of Europe. But in France, under the
reign of Louis XIV and his predecessors, monarchs had governed without
consulting either the princes of the blood or the nobility, never invited them
to the councils and distributed favors as one gives toys to children. For a

336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Royal Society of London," chosen Curator and Demonstrator of that
august Society, and it was here that Desaguliers took the great doctrines
of Newton and through his experiments made them accessible and understandable to the minds of all. He invented the planetarium. His .~cientific
and philosophical treatises and books were accepted as the standa.·d works
of his day.
The social world was so carried away with enthusiasm for his lectures
that he was invited by royalty to give 'his experiments at court. His patriotic
zeal and the quality of his endeavors won for him one of the most prominent places in Hanoverian England.
If at any time in her history England needed strong leadership it was
at this moment. There had been a continuous political strife and dissension.
Morality was at a low ebb. Religiouswise that nation, as perhaps the rest
of the world, was in a chaotic state. Fads and isms had sprung up. Confusion was the order of the day. Darkness was upon the face of the deep.
On June 24, 1717, as a strategic move in the political game of· chess
between the Houses of Hanover and Stuart, the Hanoverians, just to accomplish their own selfish ends, gathered together four comparatively unimportant Masonic Lodges lying in the outskirts of London to form the
Grand Lodge of London, the·first Gran·d Lodge of Masonry. It was on that
·day that Freemasonry, all unexpectedly, started on its world mission.
For at least two centuries people on all sides had been looking for such
a thing as Freemasonry. Inquiring minds, irritated by the social and intellectual discipline imposed by the Church, had been centers of resistance,
around which formed societies which took issue with the Church. For a
long time those forces had been turning 'expectantly toward Masonry.
Every ism indeed had sought the influence of some one or more of the
Masonic Guilds, and one can well imagine the chaos in that multitude of
loosely organized associations which seemed groping without aim or purpose.
·
For a time it looked as though even this newborn Masonry was to fail,
but in 1719 Desaguliers was elected Grand Master, and he brought to Freemasonry the life it needed. He wrote most of its ritual. He brought to it
his experimental philosophy, and gave to it a touch of Newtonian Christianity, a belief in Newton's God, now and for the first time, "The Great
Artificer and Creator of the Universe." The world had been openly venal
and immoral. It had been attacking religion in self defense, and all the
more easily because religion seemed but an ancient dogma. But here was a
new idea in religion , one appealing to the intelligence instead of offering a
creed, for it was based upon analysis and reality. Here a contemplation of
nature produced certain logical facts . It taught men to think.
Desaguliers brought back into Masonry many of those who had been
in the habit of neglecting it. Further he introduced into the Fraternity a
group of the greatest noblemen of E .n gland. He it was who inaugurated
the idea of making speeches at the end of Masonic banquets. Again, he
restored the ancient custom of presenting at the conclusion of banquets
those emphatic toasts which played such an important role in the formal
life of England. These took the place of our contemporary political discussions and created the political atmosphere of the day.
Fashion is one of the most powerful of social forces. Freemasonry
under Desaguliers became the fashion . The very elite of England quickly
rushed to the order. Its Grand Masters were selected from the highest of
the nobility. Powerful indeed became our Brotherhood and one definitely
designed for the temporal influence by reason of the importance of its
leaders.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

337.

Those who developed this new order enjoyed a success that surpassed
their fondest hopes. Their aim had been a strong central Lodge around
which the other ·Lodges in and about London, then working in an incoherent
manner, could be grouped. But around this new movement the nobility, the
clergy, the army, the middle classes, all the forces of the nation gathered
in a single body.
Fifteen years after its formation the Grand Lodge of London had
become the center of all English Freemasonry and after thirty years
dominated the Masonry of the world-thanks to one man I
The latter days of Desaguliers appear to be clouded in mystery, perhaps in sadness. One report has it that misfortune overtook him and that
sorrow and poverty were his fate.
What matter it as to his end? It is what he did while here that is the
measure of the man. He took an old dying order and gave to it a philosophy
which was peculiarly his own. He added a touch of science, and then a
practical concept of the Great Architect and Organizer of the world; into
this he breathed a prayer and Speculative Freemasonry was born. Through
the force of his own personality he brought to this new institution the
important men of England, royalty, the nobility, the elite, the great minds.
Because of the purity of its principles, and because of the importance of its
early leaders brought in by Desaguliers, Freemasonry since his day has
been a living thing, pulsating with the very best that is to be found in man.
His life was a veritable fountain of light, a beacon to show the way
for countless generations. John Theophilus Desaguliers has, even in death,
ruled nations. Was it not as though the Supreme Grand Master spoke to
men's minds through him and said, "What is the cause of this confusion?"
. With all this information before us may anyone question that Freemasonry had a political and religious mission in England during the first
half of the eighteenth century.
By 1750, then, England had found a new equilibrium in both politics
and religion. Freemasonry had played a great part and had become strong'
socially and financially, with a world wide influence. With these assets it
went on triumphantly leading its crusade.
In France-Louis XIV was dead and the crowd in Paris had laugfie°d
and here and there had lighted bonfires to celebrate its joy. English
fashions, which had enchanted the French nobility and had held sway over
the minds of French writers, now made it easy for Freemasonry to establish
itself in France. English Freemasonry, desirous of achieving a triumph,
seized the opportunity to cross the channel. The Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of London did not disdain to take his colleagues to Paris to encourage the zeal of the Lodges which were established there.
Temperamentally, the French were an entirely different people from the
English. Freemasonry to be acceptable to the French had to be noble, not
professional; mystic rather than scientific. England sought the dignity in
Masonry, France the bizarre. Jn England, it was the trowel; in France, 'the
sabre-in the ·many new degrees added by the French.
Iri spite of ban of King, in · spite of Papal Bull, Freemasonry during
the last quarter of the eighteenth century became soundly entrenched as a
part of the social life of all France, not, however, as a body cooperating
with the State as in England, but more as a personal adventure. Its presence
could be detected everywhere; in Parliament, in the army, in the monasteries, in school and at court. As in England, its leadership generally remained in the hands of the high nobility. Ten of the most influential aristocratic dynasties ·of France were engaged in spreading the Masonic message.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

Here, too, as in England, men were called upon to study this new religion
of Freemasonry, which was reported to be older, more beautiful, more·
philosophic than any of the organized churches.
For centuries French classes had been separated by old prejudices and
habits. Every few miles the traveler found himself in a different atmosphere,
"'.here habits, dialects and social customs had changed. Each province, each.
city, had its own measurements, its own justice, its own points of view.
Freemasonry, alone, remain~d everywhere the same and everywhere welcomed its children without prejudice as to country, race or religion. Instead
of the old spirit of class which had formerly bound together all of the noblemen of France, Freemasonry organized and substituted a good-fellowship
which broadened to include all ranks and estates. This it was that made it
the greatest social force of the century.
Loose a great social force like this in a country whose King had said,
"The State-it is I," and the results are likely to be as unforeseen and as
shocking as the new electricity Benjamin Franklin was then demonstrating
to the world.
A political revolution is never the matter of a moment. History has
shown time and again that before political revolutions great intellectual
and moral revolutions must first have been effected.
Certainly, revolution had not been the conscious aim of Freemasonry in
France; no socially minded person likes revolution; no benevolent soul
accepts lightheartedly its miseries. But consider what happened. Masonry
in France preached equality. This is a basic Masonic principle and wherever
Lodges met, members of the privileged classes, of the aristocracy, bowed
solemnly before the symbols of equality. The acceptance by the French
nobility of equality before a common altar turned the influence of Masonry
toward the intellectual and social revolution which preceded the political
one in that country. The very Freemasonry which had so intrigued the
nobility of France that they gladly spread its doctrines saw its teachings
absorbed in the cry of the people, "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity," and eventually helped to destroy that same nobility.
What of Freemasonry in the Americas?
Prior to our own Revolution thirteen small colonies were separated by
such distances that it took a letter three weeks to travel from Boston to
Georgia. There was no uniformity in the administration of those thirteen
separate governments, or in their religious affiliations, or social standards.
There were the merchant class of the North-the great land owners of the
South. There were the Puritans, the Quakers, the Catholics, the Dutch,
English, Scotch-Irish, Germans and French. All rivals and jealous of each
other. There was no unity.
·
Freemasonry alone, undertook to prepare a common foundation. It
spread throughout the Colonies among a prominent class of people. Contact
between American Lodges became closer and closer each year, and any
Mason traveling found a welcome in the Lodges he visited.
Benjamin Franklin had been the first great American apostle of Freemasonry and had busied himself in organizing not only the Society but also
a Colony-wide press with a strong Masonic influence. From 1750 to 1773
all the Masonic newspapers and Lodges were united in resisting the encroachment of the English Government. Americans remained faithful to
English civilization, but they were fast becoming conscious of an inevitable
national unity. Freemasonry, in the meantime, was still the only meeting
ground for the exchange of views of the Colonies.
Boston was the center of discontent in America. Feeling ran high in
the Puritan capital. The merchants were angry with England because of

restrictions imposed on their trade. All were ready to pay the price to get
rid of English custom officials. It took but a spark to produce the conflagration.
St. Andrew's Lodge, while not the wealthiest Lodge of Boston, could
well be termed the most active. It was headed by a famous surgeon, Joseph
Warren, an intimate ·friend of Franklin and a man whose intellectual renown and political influence had spread throughout the Colonies. Here
belonged Paul Revere and John Hancock. St. Andrew's Lodge held its
meetings at a tavern called "The Green Dragon, or the Arms of Freemasonry." The Green Dragon also was the meeting place for others who
damned the English and denounced the new tax which had just been imposed upon tea imported into the Colonies.
On Thursday afternoon, December 16, 1773, the members of St.
Andrew's Lodge proceeded to the Green Dragon for their regular communication, but the minutes show that they must have been busy elsewhere. Suddenly, out of the Tavern appeared a band of redskins strangely
masked and shabbily clad. Rushing to the docks them boarded some sloops,
proceeded to three English merchantmen in the harbor, threw overboard
342 cases of tea; returned to the sloops; regained the docks, marched to the
Green Dragon with song and hurrah, and entered the Tavern. But,
strangely, no redskins were thereafter reported to have left.
Have you ever attempted to picture the assistance given by the Masonic
order to the Colonial army? We scarcely need mention its chronic condition; untrained country lads with short enlistments; a quartermaster corps
that failed to supply clothes, food or guns; a militia that was never dependable. What was it that held this army together, that could turn it around
after a long retreat through the Jerseys and march barefoot men through
ice and snow to a Trenton midnight attack and give our country the best
Christmas present it ever received? Nothing but the spirit of one man, who
had earned the confidence and worship of the entire army-himself a member of the Masonic Order since the age of twenty-one, and acquainted with
its colony-wide influence as "the cement which binds us together."
Into this Colonial Army of Washington came those famous Lodges of
the Line. He visited them personally-in one Lodge, tradition says he
raised LaFayette.
These ten or eleven Lodges of the Line served well in their stations
and places. They kept alive morale, they restored courage, they inspired
hope. The indomitable spirit of Washington found its greatest ally in the
work of militant Masonry. May it not be that when, as President, he accepted the Mastership of Alexandria Lodge, he was making formal acknowledgment before the world of the debt the United States owed to Freemasonry?
When Benjamin Franklin was sent to Europe to seek the aid of France
in the struggle against England, on all sides the American Minister found
a people filled with enthusiasm for his country, and kindly disposed toward
him, but who adhered strictly to the policy of avoiding war.
His cause seemed hopeless. However, the Colonies could not succeed
without the help of France, and Franklin would not be denied. A new,
brilliant and very influential Lodge had but recently been organized, the
"Lodge of the Nine Sisters." Franklin joined this Lodge, and what he now
accomplished was a stroke of genius.
M. de Voltaire was the hero of the French public. He had spent his
whole. life battling error and had won the acclaim of the nation. From
royalty to tavern waiters-they worshipped him. He was the realized idol
of everyone of them; of all Frenchmen, the most French.

338

339

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It was in this Lodge of the Nine Sisters Voltaire was initiated under
the direction of Franklin.
Is there not a glorious opportunity for the type of Masonic leadership
we have had before? Or is it true instead that all human things have an
end, and that even our institution of Freemasonry has been forced out of its
place in the sun?
The forces which have created havoc in Europe are desperately striving
to accomplish their ends in America and at this moment.
It was but a few weeks ago that American newspapers carried the
story of the trial of the directors of the German-American Settlement
League. One of these directors, while upon the witness stand, was asked
by the prosecuting attorney to salute the Stars and Stripes, and he responded with the stiff gesture of the Hitler salute. When the prosecutor
thundered af him, "Is that the American salute?", he responded, "No.
But it will be!"
Recently hot over the wires came these words spoken by Mussolini of
Italy, "No matter how things go we wish to hear no more about brotherhood, sisterhood and such other bastard relationships, because relationships
between s't ates are relations of force and these relations of force are the
determining elements of their policy."
Let us not laugh at that ,old adage, "The price of liberty is eternal
vigilance." There never was a time when we needed to be more alert and
watchful than now.
The world is in the throes of a struggle between democracy and
totalitarianism; the essence of the former is Justice; that of the latter,
Force. The aggressive brutality of totalitarianism appears to be riding the
crest of a triumph.
Democracy has been the great goal of man for the past two centuries.
It is recognized as that form of society which is inspired above every other
with the feeling and consciousness of the dignity of the individual man. It
is the embodiment of personal liberty.
Totalitarianism teaches contempt for human kind. Its terrorism 'degrades and destroys peoples. It corrupts character, releases every evil impulse, turns men into cowardly hypocrites and shameless informers. That is
why dictators love terrorism. The totalitarian state subordinates every
phrase of public life itself. What we call culture-religion, art, research,
higher morality, free human thought-falls under the crime of treason whenever it pursues truth through to independence. Totalitarianism sacrifices the
individual to the power of the State.
Are we asleep? Is that spirit of Masonry of old just lying dormant, or
has it passed out of existence? Is there not enough of the old fire left to
offer even a word in self _defense?
There was a day when this institution of ours took a definite place in
world affairs. There was a day when it was the meeting place for minds
opposed to tyranny. Have we forgotten?
In the early days of American history man came here to worship as he
pleased. Later, it was oppression, a disregard for right and justice that
produced an American revolution. The great Commander of the Colonial
forces was fighting for personal liberty. It was the belief of Washington
and his army that liberty, democracy, religion walked hand in hand.
During revolutionary and pre-revolutionary days the institution was
not a party; it was not a sect; it was not a school. But it bound men together in a feeling of brotherhood. It led and it guided. It was a society
of ideals, and that society was the power of powers that could make and

unmake kings, direct the course of empire, and give birth to our own
democracy. What has become of that Freemasonry that could be called a
meeting place for minds opposed to tyranny when today a small minority
may work its will upon a nation?
We have been called the most efficient social power on earth. Then
is it trite for us to remind ourselves that the price of greatness is responsibility? Is it disloyal to the Freemasonry of Desaguliers, of Voltaire
Franklin, Washington and Bolivar to urge that Freemasonry again reach
out to take its proper place in world affairs?
The time has come when our members should no longer sit and bask
in the sunshine of a glorious philosophy. There is work to do .. If Freemasonry is worth anything, if personal liberty is the precious thing we
think it is, if the heritage of worshiping as one pleases is still of any value,
then Freemasonry must again assume the responsibility of preparing for
that leadership which is to bring light ~o this generation.

340

341

GRAND LODGES
The Reports of the various Grand Lodges reviewed contain the procedure in various jurisdictions. Heretofore, we have expressed our opinion,
that the English system of handling details through a Board of General
Policy and Purposes, who meet quarterly, consider the various questions
that should be submitted to the Grand Lodge at its annual session, would
be a more satisfactory way than the American way of holding Grand Lodge
sessions covering all the way from two to six days.
It would also give the members in attendance at Grand Lodge a
greater opportunity for participating in social activities and becoming better
acquainted with each other.
We think that a Grand Lodge session should be for the promotion of
good fellowship among those in attendance, rather than handling detailed
reports in which the general member is not interested. All of them have
been printed and circulated before the opening of the session so why bore
the members with a repetition?
Missouri (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Did you ever hear of a "Grand
Jurisdiction"? Well, there is nothing grand about jurisdictions. It is an
invention of these people who delight to revel in the sunlight of glowing
titles. How much easier to refer to the Jurisdiction of a Grand Lodge or
a Lodge Jurisdiction? What these people really mean to say is "Gr~nd
Lodge Jurisdiction." And here is a fine opportunity to mention the public
and indiscriminate use of "Most Worshipful," "Right Worshipful" and
"Worshipful Brother." Such words are entirely proper when sparingly used
in Lodge ritual, but extremely out of place in printed publications, newspapers, and elsewhere. We only hope the time will come when it will be a
Masonic offense for one to refer to "MvV's," "RW's" and "W's" outside
a Lodge duly convened.
North Dakota (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of New
Mexico was not greatly impressed with the Grand Masters' conference
saying, "There are forty-nine Grand Masters each of whom has his ow~
ideas as to how things should be done, and I doubt ·if any one of them
would ever concede that the other was right." However, the Grand Lodge
refused to approve his recommendation that they 'drop out.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Last year we commented on the
fact that the Grand Master reported on fifty or sixty decisions which brings
the following come-back:
"The language of our Code is not ambiguous as to baffie the intelligence
of the average Master, but it seems that a number of brethren just sit
around and try to think of some questions that they believe are not covered
in the Code, without taking the trouble to look up the Code. Of course this
cannot happen in North Dakota, as the Masters there may be compounded
of more particular clay, how about it, Brother Murfin?"
Human nature is doubtless pretty much the same here as in Florida
but what we haven't yet been able to get through our thick head is wh;
dignify a mere reference to the Code as a decision to incumber the records
for all future time. We even know of one or two North Dakota Grand
Masters who have told Masters not to be so darned · 1azy but to read the
Code. There were no second offenders.

like unto the driven snow, while yet others, it appeared that the frost and
frigid blasts of winter had withered and swept clean of all covering, leaving
them shining and unadorned.

342

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master made twentyeight recommendations, some of which were approved while others were
turned down. One of the latter was that they discontinue publishing membership lists in the proceedings thus avoiding "furnishing the public with
mailing lists of members," and so the "sucker list" will continue to be supplied to every mail order scheme in the country, and the printer will be a
·
couple of hundred dollars ahead.
Oregon (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): When it came to making his
address, he declared that although the weather had cooled, yet it was still
too hot to deliver, or sit and listen to a long address, which to our way of
thinking, is an example of Masonic charity that could emanate only from an '
understanding and intensely human individual.

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence ConJmittee): As is die custom everywhere, and
rightfully so, the visiting dignitaries were called on at this time. All responding with usual type of short talk. We for one have no quarrel with this
custom of calling on our distinguished visitors but we do hold that men
of the caliber of which most Grand Masters are made, should on occasions
of this type have something to offer other than a pat on the back, I'm glad
to be here, am having a wonderful time and I bring greetings from my
jurisdiction of umpty thousand brethren. The Craft is hungry for knowledge and a Grand Master visiting in other Jurisdictions with nothing to
offer but his presence is wasting good valuable time in passing out a lot
of meaningless verbal bouquets.

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Distinguished visitors were a delegation from Oregon headed by Grand Master Franklin C. Howell, and a
bunch of lesser fry commonly known to the brethren of Oregon as Cheney,
Patterson, Stanard, Brodie, Pinney, Robb and Whealdon.
We term them "lesser fry" but only in the sens.e of degree in office.
Together they offered a cosmopolitan background, or scenic backdrop for
the Grand Master. Cosmopolitan in that, among them could be found
specimens of every type, the long, the lank and 'lean, as well as the short
and robust, and of ample girth. Some there were with raven locks that
would put the darkest night to shame, some; thatched with silvery white,

343

Cosmopolitan, yet they had two things in common. First, an intense
love and devotion for Masonry and second, an ever present tendency to
inquire, "When do we eat?"

*

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): What has Kentucky that promotes
longevity that other sections of the country lack? We are compelled to' this
query after scrutinizing the impressive list of Past Grand Masters present
at the Session.
This li~t is comprised of 28 individuals out of the last 44 who have served,
three ()f whom officiated previous to the turn of· the present century.
As a physician we are aware of the benefits accruing from a diet rich
in Vitamin A and that it is most abundantly found in the leafy parts of
plants, yet we have never eaten a blue-grass salad in Kentucky. Too, we
have heard of and seen in fancy containers, labeled, "Made in Kentucky,"
a certain elixir made from corn. Does this perchance confer on those who
prefer it spiked with but a hint of mint the ability to defy the passing of
time, or is it the inherent toughness of these brethren of Kentucky.
We profess we are at a loss, and would welcome enlightenment, should
any of these Patriarchs deign to favor us with the formula that would
enable us too to thumb our nose at the Old Man with the Scythe.
Texas (1939):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): On being installed, Grand Master
Hessey gave to Grand Lodge the assurance (rather in line with Maryland's lately modernized custom) that "I will not ask for over one more"
year and adds: "So, if you should honor me with an election for a second
time, it, of course, would be appreciated." It will be remembered that the
time was when Maryland having once found a good Grand •Master was
reluctant to dispense with his services. In view of this fact, the above is
not to be considered an announcement in advance for re-election, made by
Brother Hessey; he was only "jes-tell-n" em."

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is to be inferred from the
reading of a resolution, seeking to change a long existing custom in the
Grand Lodge of Wyoming that the rule of promotion from the lowest
appointive office to that of Grand Master nas obtained; and we are wondering if this can be the explanation of the seeming want of interest, in the
showing of the presence at Grand Lodge of only 18 of their 27 living Past
Grand Masters. Sometimes even the judgment of a Grand Master is not
quite the equal of that of the electorate of an assembled Grand Lodge.
Now of course we don't know but from the exceptionally large number of
living Past Grand Masters it may be that Grand Masters of the yesterdays
have now and then sought to bestow honors upon youth without previous
justified estimate of determined purpose and ability of the appointee. Far be
it from us to adversely criticize the acts or customs of the splendid Grand
Lodge of Wyoming. Our purpose being only to register our humble
opinion in favor of the direct election of the officers of a Masonic organization rather than have them designated by any single individual. On

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

recommendation of the Committee on Jurisprudence, the resolution offered
was disapproved, and the following adopted:
"Resolved that it shall be the duty of each incoming Grand Master
before making appointments to all appointive offices. of the Grand Lodge,
with the exception of Grand Tyler, to meet in conference with the incoming
Deputy Grand Master, the Grand Wardens and Past Grand Masters or such
of them as may be available and make known to said conference the names
of the proposed appointees with the view of affording the broadest scope
of action in securing the most available talent as to eligibility from the
standpoint of character, capability and experience in Masonic work."

by Mistress Leg~nd to the doctor. The occasion for repeating it arises out
of the Grand Master observing that one of his predecessors had decisively
settled the status of "gambling for Masonry" (which sounds very like a
bull), and the other had satisfactorily settled the question of liquor in
Masonry (I know Masons in the United States who do most consumedly
settle the liquor in themselves). At all events, these two distinguished
leaders had settled the two questions, and Brother Blakemore "realized
that my year would probably be merely one of consolidating the gains
already made, rather than showing any unusual legislative or other developments." As he had no recommendations to make on the two subjects of
gambling and liquor, one may take it he was able to consolidate.
The Grand Master proved himself an indefatigable traveler, his records
showing that by trains and motor car he had traveled over 46,000 miles in
the year, an average approximating 130 miles a day. His records showed
also that he made upwards of 170 visits to Masonic Bodies.

344

Utah (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It appears that Past Grand
Masters (Virginia) (11 of them in this instance) pass on the address of the
Grand Master which is all right, but this particular committee seems to
have taken upon itself certain of the duties and powers of the Committee
on Jurisprudence-at ieast as this portion of our Grand Lodge machinery
works.
In the instance at hand the aforesaid Past Grand Masters disapprove
one decision of the Grand Master, amend one dis·pensation and disapprove
of another, and Grand Lodge agreed with these distinguished brethren.
With us such matters are specifically referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
For some time, we wondered · if the Grand Lodge of Virginia had a
Committee on Jurisprudence; and at last we stumbled on a brief report
by this committee recommending an amendment to "Sec. 16" (presumably
in the Methodical Digest). All this is said, not by way of ci-iticism, but to
call attention to differences in procedure, which always adds to our information and gives pleasure to the present writer.

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of South
Dakota deemed his official acts, so far as dispensations and decisions are
concerned, as being of so little importance relatively, that he refrained from
reporting them. He suggested the elimination of all the Provisions in the
By-Laws "* • • as to how, when, by whom, and for what purposes,
application may be made to the Grand Master for Special dispensations."
Reason for this, because they are almost invariably ignored in whole or in
major part.

•

•

•

Many visitors-mostly Grand Masters-from other Jurisdictions addressed Grand Lodge. We have sometimes adverted to the practice of some
speakers who spend a part of their time informing the brethren that they
cannot make a speech. Why do this, why warn them in advance? It is safe
to trust the average Masonic assembly to discover that fact (if it be a fact)
for themselves.
West Australia (1939):
(Reviewer): Blessed is the Grand Master (Ohio) who, upon assuming
office, is able to feel that certain problems associated with Grand Mastership (in the United States, at any rate) have been solved, in theory, by
one or more of his predecessors, and that all he has to do is to imitate
that famous maker of Irish bulls, Dr. Tanner, M. P., by "sitting down and
waiting to s&i whether the chickens came home to roost in the form of
blessings or cockroaches." This saying, whether true or not, is attributed

•

•

345

•

(Grand Masters' Conferences): The Annual Conferences of Grand Masters, U. S. A., are claimed by most of those who attend them to be what
one called "promotive" of good arising out of the interchange of ideas.
If this be so, one good result should be respect for each other's differing
viewpoints, for what most folks need is the possession of greater tolerance.
No doubt, it was inevitable that the conferences should be viewed with positive dislike, caused not only by the fear that .the deliberations might
threaten Jurisdictional sovereignty, but also by a not unreasonable conviction of their inability as a means of solving problems confronting Grand
Masters. Lately, a new note has been sounded by the Grand Master of an
important Jurisdiction who declared that prepared studies on interesting
and controversial subjects were presented to Conference, but that the time
was too limited to permit of adequate discussion and, perhaps, find a
genuinely adequate solution of the question, if that were at all possible .
"There are," he said, "forty-nine Grand Masters each of whom has his own
ideas as to how things should be done, and I doubt whether any one of them
would concede that the other was right." Doubtless, the Most Worshipful
Brother had no desire to impute intoleran<ie or stiffneckedness to anyone,
but his observations suggest a hopelessness of understanding as striking as
the hopelessness of an attempt to correctly interpret the farcical meanings
of the art of the Surrealist.
INTERESTING READING
In reviewing the Proceedings that come to the Chairman of a Correspondence Committee, Grand Masters Messages, Grand Orators Effusions, Papers and Addresses of various kinds there are some which are
interesting not only to Masonic students but also to those that desire to be
informed along lines in which the average man is interested. The following are some that may be read with interest by all.
Grand Orator's Address ................................... Arkansas ......................... 1939
"The Lion's Paw'' ..... :........................................ Colorado .......................... 1939
Historical Address ............................................. Connecticut... .................. 1940
Grand Orator's Addres's ................................... Idaho................................ 1939
The ConstituHon ................................................Indiana............................. 1939
''Bow Anew" ..., ................................................ ,.. Kan$as ............................. 1040
Grand Chaplain's Address ............................... Manitoba ......................... 1939
Address .................................................................Minne,sota ....................... 1939
History................................................................ ..Missouri.. ......................... 1939

346

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Sailing Against the Wind".............•.......•...... Nebraska......................... 1940
"After Twenty Years" ..••....,. .•.....•...
..New Jersey .... ·-········-····1939
!:;Iistoria':1's _Report .....:····································--North Carolina............... 1939
A Contmumg Experiment .......•......,......... :.... North Dakota._ ............-1939
Free Masonry in the American Scene......... Ohio ···············-·············.1939
''Masonry's Challenge".................................... Oklahoma.......•................ 1939
Grand Orator's Address ................................... Oregon.••...•....................
Masonry-···········-···············································-Texas.........- .................... 1940
Grand Orator's Address .................................. Utah .........................•....... 1939
Free Masonry at Yorktown ...........................•Virginia............ ...............1939
"The Message of Masonry" ............................Wi$consin .................. :....1939
d -•••••••••••

_l_

MASONRY-ITS OBJECTIVE?
The question as to just what Masonry stands for and what it should
accomplish may be gleaned from the quotations under this heading.
At the present time Masonry appears to have no set program, other
than approve a "Declaration of Principles" and passing Resolutions which
u.s ually are soon forgotten after the adjournment of the Grand Lodge.
Times change and we believe that if Masonry is to accomplish anything it must become a militant body with some objective. This does not
mean engaging in partisan politics, but a program that will demonstrate
to the world that the Craft stands for something more than lip service,
and that its members are a select body of .men ready and willing to sacrifice themselves for the good of their country.
Grand Orators aad others dwell on the part that Masonry played in the
establishment of our Republic. We wonder how many of our present members would go through the trials of Valley Forge, the experiences of Andrew
Jackson, Lewis and Clarke and other members of the Craft who built this
Nation..
When America and Masonry become "soft" we are headed for the fate
of France and some of the other Nations that are now "Provinces" of a
Conqueror and his militant nation.
Canada (1939):
(Chai,.man Co,.,.espondence Committee): Years ago my neighbor in New
York was Felix Adler, one of the greatest men of hi!\ generation, the founder of the Society of Ethical Culture.
There were Buddhists, Mohammedans, Parsees, Hebrews, Catholics
and Protestants; and all meeting in a Masonic Lodge. I had the honor of
serving as Chaplain that evening. At the close of the Lodge tho.s e men.wearing their native garbs, most of them-joined hands about the Masonic
Altar, and I asked each one to pronounce the benediction of his own religion
in his own language, and then to join with me in the Lord's Prayer all
~gct~~
.
Charles Beard, the dean of American historians, was asked how long
it would take him to sum up the teachings of American history. He said
he thought it could be done in a week, and as he thought about it longer
he thought he could do it in a day. After considering it further he said:
First-He whom the gods would destroy they first make mad.
Second-The mills of the gods grind slowly, but they grind exceeding
small.
Third-The bee always fertilizes the flower that it robs.
Fourth-When it is dark enough we can see the stars.

347

So a great living historian summed up the teachings of history. Just
turn those sayings over in your minds.
I remember the first time I was there and tea was brought in, and I
said, "It is a pity that we Americans do not have a tea-time where we can
relax and indulge in chit-chat." The Prime Minister said, "Remember, Doctor, we offered you Americans tea once, and you would not take it."

•

•

•

(G,.and Maste,.): From time to time the United Grand Lodge of England
has deemed it desirable to set forth in precise form the aims of Freemasonry
as consistently practised under its Jurisdiction since it came into being as
an organized body in 1717, and also to define the principles governing its
relations with those other Grand Lodges with which it is in fraternal
accord.
In view of representations which have been received, and of statements
recently issued which have distorted or obscured the true objects of Freemasonry, it is once again considered necessary to emphasize certain fundamental principles of the Order.
The first :ondition of admission into, and membership of, the Order
is a belief in the Supreme Being. This is essential and admits of no compromise.
The Bible referred to by Freemasons as the Volume of the Sacred
Law, is alway~ open in the Lodges. Every candidate is required to take
his obligation on that book or on the Volume which is held by his particular
creed to impart sanctity to an oath or promise taken upon it.
Everyone who enters Freemasonry is, at the outset, strictly forbidden
to countenance any act which may have .a tendency to subvert the peace
and good order of society; he must pay due obedience to the law of any
state in which he resides or which may afford .him protection, and he must
never be remiss in the allegiance due to the Sovereign of his native land.
While English Freemasonry thus inculcates in each of its members the
duties of loyalty and citizenship, it reserves to the individual the right to
hold his own opinion with regard to public affairs. But neither in any
Lodge, nor at any time in his capacity as a Freemason, is he permitted to
discuss or to advance his views on theological or political questions.
The Grand Lodge has always consistently refused to express any
opinion on questions of foreign or domestic state policy either at 'home or
abroad, and it will not allow its name to be associated with any action,
however humanitarian it may appear to be, which infringes its unalterable
policy of standing aloof from every question affecting the relations between
one g-0vernment and another, or between political parties, or questions as to
rival theories of government.
The Grand Lodge is aware that there do exist Bodies, styling themselves Freemasons, which do not adhere to these principles, and while that
attitude exists the Grand Lodge of England refuses absolutely to have any
relations with such Bodies, or to regard them as Freemasons.
The Grand Lodge of England is a Sovereign and independent BC1dy
practising Freemasonry only within the three Degrees and only within tht
limits defined in its Constitution as "pure Antient Masonry." It does not
recognize or admit the existence of any superior Masomc authority, however styled.
On more than one occasion the Grand Lodge has refused, and will continue to refuse, to participate in Conferences with so called International
Associations claiming to represent Freemasonry, which admit to member-

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ship Bodies failing to conform strictly to the principles upon which the
Grand Lodge of England is founded. The Grand Lodge does not admit
any such claim, nor can its views be represented by any such Association.
There is no secret with regard to any of the basic principles of Freemasonry, so_me of which h.aye been stated above. The Grand Lodge will
alwa:l'.'s consider the recognition of those Grand Lodges which profess, and
practise, an~ can show that they have consistently professed and practised
those established and unaltered principles, but in no circumstances will it
enter into discussion with a view to any new or varied interpretation. of
the?1. They must be accepted and practised wholeheartedly and in their
entirety by those who desire to be recognized as Freemasons by the United
Grand Lodge of England.

Freemasonry is not to be entered into through mere curiosity, ambition
for honors 1 or in the hope of personal gain or advancement. Admission
must not b e sought for mercenary or other unworthy motives. The aim of
the true Freemason is to cultivate a brotherly feeling among men, and to
help, aid and assist whomsoever he can.
•
The right to petition for the degrees of Ancient Craft Mas~nry is
rarely denied to any man, but this right goes no further than granting t~e
privilege of petitioning, and all who petition are not admitted. The Masonic
Fraternity does not solicit members, but wants and welcomes only men of
high character and integrity, who seek admission entirely of their own free
will and accord. Should a petitioner be accepted, he should understand
that he will get no more out of Masonry than he puts into it, that to receive
benefits from such a society one must devote himself to its interests.
I hereby certify that I have read the foregoing and fully understand the
principles and purposes of the Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons
as explained therein.

When I have been asked, as several times has happened, what attitude
Masonry takes toward some political or semi-political cause or what
Masonry is doing to assist some humanitarian movement which has political
or g~vernmental aspects, my answer has been to hand the questioner a
co~y of the. above statement. The Craft survives, and has through the centur!es survived, only he~ause it avoids the discussion of political and sect:inan problems. Of this we need periodical reminders in stirring times
hke these.
New Hampshire (1939):

(Grand Master): Copying somewhat from a law lately enacted by the
Grand Lodge of the State of New Jersey, I recommend that the Grand
Secretary be instructed to have a sufficient quantity of leaflets printed so
tha~ . each constituent Lodge may have a supply, one to accompany each
petition and that the following subject matter be used:
Principles and "Rurposes of Freemasonry
Grand Jurisdiction of the State of New Hampshire
Freemasonry is neither a religion, a political organization nor a social
club. It interferes with none of these, but has for its f~undation the
bas.ic pri~ciple,s of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man. It
believes m a Supreme Being, the immortality of the soul and that the
~oly _Bible is the i~estima~le gift of God to man as the rul~ and guide for
his. f~1th and practice. It 1s a Fraternity or Brotherhood pledged to the
bm.ldmg o~ character--thoughts, words, motives and deeds being the materials used.
Freemasonry strives to teach man the duty he owes to God his country, his neighbor and himself. It inculcates the practice of ~irtue and
morality in daily conduct, and conveys its teachings through rites and
symbols.
The Masonic Fraternity is in no sense an insurance society · neither
does it pay benefits in case of sickness or death. In a correct a~d broad
sen.se: it i.s ?oth educational and charitable. It extends such assistance only
as 1t 1s w11lmg and able to grant. It knowingly admits none to membership
except those who are able to provide for themselves and those dependent
upon them. It expects and requires that its members contribute to the
support of the Masonic Home and other Masonic charities.
Freemasonry teaches, and gives opportunity to its members to inculcate
morality, honesty and integrity in all walks of life, and renders assistance to
worthy members to a limited extent. It expects its members to obey the
moral law and to practice charity toward all mankind. It believes its members should have a strong desire to aid their fellow creatures. It has its
own laws, rules and regulations, and requires a strict obedience thereto.

. . .. . . . . . . . . . u

349

....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,

Petitioner.
New Jersey (1939):
(Grand Master) : Freemasonry is a charitable, benevolent, educational
and religious society. Its principles are proclaimed as widely as men will
hear. Its only secrets are in its methods of recognition and of symbolic
instruction.
'
Believing these things, this Grand Lodge affirms its continued adherence to that ancient and approved rule of Freemasonry which forbids the
discussion in Masonic meetings of creeds, politics, or other topics likely to
excite personal animosities.
It further affirms its conviction that it is 11ot only contrary to the fun.
damental principles of Freemasonry, but dangerous to its unity, strength,
usefulness and welfare, for Masonic Bodies to take action or attempt to
exercise pressure or influence, for or against any legislation, or in any way
to attempt to procure the election or appointment of governmental officials or to influence them, whether or not members of the Fraternity, in
the performance of their official duties. The true Freemason will act in civil
life according to his individual judgment and the dictates of his conscience.
Texas (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Here is a thought rather indicative of, to our mind, a seriously hurtful trend: Following his own recommendation proposed last year, Past Grand Master Barnett E . Marks was
appointed as Chairman of a "Committee on Objectives." Reporting, he now
says : "The writer is still of the opinion, as when he made his Recommendation last year, that Masonry, as an institution, owes something to the community in which 'it lives and moves and has its being'." D iscussing the
question he credits Masonry with its annual spending "of the millions" for
the relief of its members, on hospitals, homes, orphanages, Masonic libraries,
and the like but objects that "for the most part, however, these projects are
known only to the members of the Order and are primarily for the benefit
of its own members." He continues, "I should like to see the Masonic Order
in Arizona do something which would be of benefit to all of the people of
Arizona. . . . From such information as I have been able to gather during
my own study of the matter, the project, or activity, which appeals most to
me has to do with such problems as improvement in the administration of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

government 'as related to Arizona, with particular reference perhaps to a
study of the tax problem in our State, with a view of revising both these
matters as to our citizens of the excessive tax burden under which we are
all laboring.... If we would engage in big tasks, doing deeds which would
command favorable attention of all right-thinking people, a desire would
be immediately created to affiliate with such an institution. This is a challenge to our leadership and I firmly believe that we are equal to it." This
report was referred to the Committee on General Policy.

centage is 25.72; or 62.25% of all initiates in Maine are from 21 to 30 years
old, both inclusive. Rhode Island is second, Iowa is third, and Utah is
fourth.

350

MEMBERSHIP
Delmar E. Darrah, Past Grand Master of Illinois, expresses his opinion
as far as Masonry is concerned in the following quotation:
"If Masonry is going to succeed in the future it will have to change
some of its practices. Heretofore it has been possible to sell a man three
degrees for a stipulated sum of money, but today men are not satisfied
merely to purchase degrees. They want something more; they want enter-.
tainment; fellowship. They want something that will furnish entertainment
for the members of their families. The Masonic Lodge of the future is
going to be that Lodge in which degrees are a means to an end-the end
will have to be fraternal relations--the privileges of which are human
fellowship."
A check of statistics shows that at the present time very few young
men are entering the Masonic Fraternity. It might be well then for the
Craft to hold out some inducement to the "Future Generation."
The following verse may illustrate better than a thousand words what
Masonry must do if it is going to continue as a vital organization.
When we build a house we have a plan;
We start with a boy when we build a man;
A good foundation is a vital thing
If you're building a man or anything.
The longer it lasts, the more care we should take
To follow the plan, and make no mistake;
We can change a house and make repair,
But a man lives forever, so build with care.
Connecticut (1939):
(Grand Lodge): On and after September 1, 1939, each applicant for the
degrees in Connecticut must submit, with his application, duplicate cards
showing his fingerprints; one copy goes to the Grand Secretary and the
other to the Department, of Justice in Washington, D. C.
Maine (1940):
(Grand Master): The statement has been made many times during the
last few years that "Young men no longer apply for the Masonic degrees."
Through the untiring efforts of R.'. W.'. Carl H. Claudy, Executive
Secretary of the Masonic Service Association of the United States at
Washington, D. C., graphs were made from data obtained from the Grand
Secretaries of twenty-two Grand Jurisdictions from Maine to Oregon, or
about 45% of the total number, and the information shown is very interesting and informative. The challenge is absolutely refuted as to the State
of Maine. Maine heads the list for initiates between the ages of 21 and 25,
inclusive, with a percentage _of 36.53; between 26 and 30 years the per-

351

Missouri (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Before the period A. I. (Anno
Influx), the average Master of a Lodge was the village doctor, the lawyer,
merchant, minister---conservative, dignified men of reputation and standing
in the community. After the influx, a younger group of men, many of whom
were seeking only the glamour of office, began the gradual displacement
of these conservative elements until there came into the forefront the parrot
ritualist, the Brother with the big Past Master jewel and a love for Masonic
nomenclature to the nth degree. I would not have you believe this true in
every' community, but our readers will recognize such instances. With
leadership gone, a program of charitable, educational and social activity
ceases to exist. Finances exist only for feeds, for show, for jewels. With
lack of a definite program, individual interest wanes and Masonic influence
is gone.
The needs of Masonry today are more effective leadership-a sustained
program of charitable, educational and social activity-more friendliness,
more companionship-more brotherhood.
North Carolina (1939):
(Grand Master): With reluctance he called attention to the remissness
of some of the Lodges in the matter of disciplining members for violation
of the moral and Masonic law. In some instances he found Lodges carry·
ing on their rolls, as being in good standing, members who at the time
were serving terms of imprisonment on road gangs, or in jails or penitentiaries. He urged the Masters to look into this matter and ascertain if
a house-cleaning is needed. Sometimes, something more vigorous and dras- ·
tic than urging, is necessary to bring officers and Lodges to see the line
of plain duty.
Oregon (1939):
Some of the "Trouble Lodges" according to the Grand Master (South
Dakota), owe their distress to something besides drought, grasshoppers
and dust storms. They are located in small towns in areas of decreasing
population, good roads and automobiles contribute to their difficulties along
with temple debts piled up in boom days and the carrying charges are becoming too great for the few remaining faithful members to carry.,
Pennsylvania (1939):
{Grand Master): A Lodge has no defined territorial Jurisdiction. It may
possibly work out that way, but no Lodge has the property right to any
man who may reside in its community. The only reason inquiry is made
of a Lodge nearest to the residence of a petitioner, is to ascertain whether
Masonic objection exists, so that the Fraternity may be protected from the
admission of those whose standing in society would make them unworthy.
The theory being that those nearest his residence would know him best.
Queensland (1939):
(Grand Master): From time to time the United Grand Lodge of England
has deemed it desirable to set forth in precise form the aims of Freemasonry
as consistently practised under its Jurisdiction since it came into being as
an organized body .in 1717, and also to define the principles governing its

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

relations with those other Grand Lodges with which it is in fraternal accord.
In view of representations which have been received, and of statements
recently issued which have distorted or obscured the true objects of Freemasonry, it is once again considered necessary to emphasize certain fundamental principles of the Order.
·
The first condition of admission into, and membership of, the Order
is a belief in the Supreme Being. This is essential and admits of no compromise.
The Bible, referred to by Freemasons as the Volume of the Sacred
Law is always open in the Lodges. Every candidate is required to take his
Obligation on that book or on the Volume which is held by his particular
creed to impart sanctity to an oath or promise taken upon it.
Everyone who enters Freemasonry is, at the outset, strictly forbidden
to countenance any act which may have a tendency to subvert the peace
and good order of society; he must pay due obedience to the law of any
state in which he resides or which may afford him protection, and he must
never be remiss in the allegiance due to the Sovereign of his native land.
While English Freemasonry thus inculcates in each of its members the
duties of loyalty and citizenship, it reserves to the individual the right to
hold his own opinion with regard to public affairs. But neither in any
Lodge, nor at any time in his capacity as a Freemason, is he permitted to
discuss or to advance his views on theological or political questions.
The Grand Lodge has always consistently refused to express an:vopinion on questions of foreign or domestic state policy either at home or
abroad, and it will not aUow its name to be asso·ciated with any action,
however humanitarian it may appear to be, which infringes its unalterable
policy of standing aloof from every question affecting the relations between
one government and another, or between political parties, or questions as
to rival t..'J.eories of government.
The Grand Lodge is aware that there do exist Bodies, styling themselves Freemasons, which do not adhere to these principles, and while
that attitude exists the Grand Lodge of England refuses absolutely to have
any relations with such Bodies, or to regard them as Freemasons.
The Grand Lodge of England is a Sovereign and independent Body
practising Freemasonry only within the three degrees and only within the
, limits defined in its Constitution as " pure Antient Masonry." It does not
recognize or admit the existence of any superior Masonic authority, however styled.
On more than one occasion the Grand Lodge has refused, and will
continue to refuse, to participate in Conferences with so called International Associations claiming to represent Freemasonry, which admit to
membership Bodies failing to conform strictly to the principles upon which
the Grand Lodge of England is founded. The Grand Lodge does not admit
any such claim, nor can its views be represented by any such Association.
There is no secret with regard to any of the basic principles of Freemasonry, some of which have been stated above. The Grand Lodge will
always consider the recognition of those Grand Lodges which profess, and
practise, and can show that they have consistently professed and practised
those established and unaltered principles, but in no circumstances will it
enter into discussion with a view to any new or varied interpretation ot
them. They must be accepted and practised wholeheartedly and in their ·
entirety by those who desire to be recognized as Freemasons by the United
Grand Lodge of England.

GRAND LODGE 01' CALIFORNIA

353

South Dakota (1939):
(Grand Master): Next to the collection of dues in our Lodges, the subject which should be uppermost in our minds, is the Suspension of Members for Non-payment of Dues.
·
If you will examine the rec,:ords of our Lodges you will find in most
cases that the number of members suspended for non-payment of dues has
exceeded the increase from all sources. In other words, we have suspended
more members than we have raised, admitted and reinstated. There is need
for giving serious thought to the question of salvaging lost man power that
was once an asset.
·
Not so many years ago we considered them excellent material for
Masonry and not a dissenting ballot was cast to question that belief. The
responsibility comes right back to our own door. Surely we would not be so
arrogant as to say that "we exposed them to Masonry, but it didn't take."
It apparently· didn't "take," but mig·ht we not well ponder the possibility
of our failure to make it "take." Even so, no one would dare say that the
suspended members, who are now out of the fold, as a class were really
undesirable. Unfortunately some of them are, were, and perhaps always will
be that type, but it is a sad commentary on our judgment if we have such
a high mortality for that reason alone.
Frequently in our social and civic life we meet men from whom we
learn that they were formerly members but allowed themselves to be suspended. When interrogated as to the reason, they have no definite answer.
They usually comment on the virtues of the Order; they have not lost faith;
they are good substantial men, but they have just drifted away. And drifting, my Brethren, is a tragedy. This is so easily ignored, for, with a shrug
of the shoulders, we exclaim, "Well, it's up to him. He allowed himself to
be susQended."
We are all too well aware of the delusion of mere numbers. Membership statistics merely indicate the material trend, but do not necessarilv
reveal spiritual power.
Referring again to the "lost battalion," as I might term the suspended
Brethren who have been out of Masonry less than five years, there is here
a great field for the demonstration of some real brotherly love and friendship.
Some may be unworthy, but a vast number were recently labelled as worthy
and well-qualified and they still are. They have left us for reasons best
known to themselves, for in many instances they were too proud to volunteer the real reason, and we assumed that it was none of our business to
inquire into their private or personal affairs. They were hut recently
interested and if approached in a friendly, brotherly manner, their appreciation o~ that beauty, that dignity, that solemnity, that ideal of Masonry, may
be rekindled. We, as members of a great Fraternity, owe to those Brethren
whose membership has lapsed the most friendly support. It may do them
an inestimable amount of good, and then, too, we will have fulfilled our
obligations. Bear in mind that many Masons whose membership has lapsed
have been ashamed to admit it.
I therefore recommend this procedure to save the "lost battalion":
Make Masonry so attractive that the former ardor will glow! Keep Masonry
so alive and active that it will serve as a great fraternal magnet! And, last
of all, so live Masonry that others! seeing its reflection in you, may be
stimulated to higher deeds and zeal to belong again to the institution,
Masonry!
. Utah (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master Aldrich reported

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

having approved changes in the By-Laws of two Lodges "* * * for exemption of dues to members. over 75 years of age, and who have paid dues for
twenty-five consecutive years, also any member who has paid dues for
thirty-five consecutive years." He does not designate this as "Life Membership." This plan of granting exemption from payment of dues as a
reward for continuous payment over a specified period has brought embarrassment to many Lodges in some jurisdictions. It does not follow that
those who are thus fa~ored have done anything else for the Fraternity,
or for the Lodges which carry them on the rolls, which would entitle
them to this "pension."
Washington (1939) ;
(Grand Master): I have some very distinct and definite ideas on the
subject of investigation of petitioners. I feel that Masonic membership is
not a right. It is a privilege, to be accorded by a Lodge only to those who,
after a most searching investigation of their past and their present have
been determined by the Lodge to be the type of men to whom M~sonic
membership s.h ould be accorded.
I ~ould urge upon all Lodges the importance at this particular time
of making sure that every petitioner admitted to the Lodge is a man who
believes in those principles.
West Australia (1939):.
The Grand Master (Delaware) drew attention to the decreases which
had taken place in the numerical strength of American Masonry since 1929
and suggested that it was to some extent due to "exceedingly high initiatio~
fees which were keeping out good men"; to the misuse of the black ball
for distinctly personal reasons. As regards the first of these Brother
Macklin did not specify what amount would be considered "high fees, " and
as to the second, one cannot help wondering to what extent its misuse
op~rated. in the. appalling decline in United States Masonry in ten years.
This writer believes rather that a more potent cause than either of those
two has been the carelessness of Lodges in permitting arrears of dues to
run on almost indefinitely and in a not more statesman-like attitude toward
effor~s put forth by the "Higher Orders," "Playgrounds of Masonry," etc.,
to wm from among young Masons recruits for organizations outside the
Blue. Why, in indigenous Chinese Masonry, even the degrees which correspond to our three Blue degr.ees. are not quickly conferred, there being a
twelve-month between the first and second, while the third or Elder Brother
degree is rarely given until fifty years have been spent. Unfortunately, we
have not yet enough Masonic education in these things to breed Masonic
statesmanship in Masonic leaders.
OFFENSES
The edicts, rules and regulations of Grand Masters and Grand Lodges
prohibiting gambling, lotteries, and liquor seem to have produced some
effect, as there is less criticism along this line than for the past two years
and less legislation. We still believe that effort to regulate the appetites
and desires of men, even under Masonic auspices, will prove ineffectual.
The less legislation that is enacted to govern the appetites and passions of
men and more attention paid to the promotion of good fellowship cultivation of Masonic ideals, and the development of Americanism th~oughout
the Nation, the better the results will be for the Masonic Fraternity.

GRAND LOD.G E OF CALIFORNIA

355

Connecticut (1940):
(Grand Master): The original structure of American Masonry has during the years undergone a large expansion, not only through the development of additional degrees and ceremonies, but also by means of the establishment of numerous correlative orders, membership in which is dependent
either on membership in a Masonic Lodge or on relationship to a member
of a Masonic Lodge.
.
While this expansion of the Masonic ideals is valuable in that it creates
more fields for. individual work through the variety of rituals and ceremonies, yet it must never be forgotten that any organization. which bases its
membership on Masonic relationship thereby accepts a definite responsibility to avoid any conduct or action which might derogate against the
honor and.integrity of Ancient Craft Masonty. The world at large does
not recognize the distinction that we maintain but criticizes thoughtless
action oil the part of any correlative body as though it were a Masonic
misdemeanor.
For many years the Grand Lodge of Connecticut has ruled that the
conducting of games of chance to raise money for Masonic purposes is improper and un-Masonic. I am happy to report that our constituent Lodges
continue to uphold this rule and that the leaders of correlated organizations
have assured me of their fullest cooperation in its ·support. Moreover the
Grand Lodges of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, by resolution and edict
have this past year reaffirmed their position against gambling for Masonic
purposes.
Although the playing of Bingo under certain restrictions has been
legalized .in Connecticut, and while a few less careful thinkers inight like to
see our Masonic standards correspondingly liberalized, games of chance for
Masonic purposes are still un-Masonic and I am confident that the members of this Grand Lodge will never permit a lowering of our standards or
a cheapening· of true Masonic ideals by any change in our present rules.
Delaware (1939):
(Grand Master): During the year I have been approached on the question of whether an organization, the prerequisite for membership being
membership in the Masonic Fraternity, could conduct Bingo games as a
means of raising funds. My answer was that they could not. Masonic Law
under Section 30 clearly states that gambling is not permitted and those
participating are guilty tif un-.Ma~onic conduct; I further stated that should
they carry out their plans I had no alternative but to prefer charges against
those responsible for the violation.
The ·principles and purposes of Masonry are too noble to be sacrificed
for the sake of paltry dollars, let alone the fact that in recognizing such
practices we condone disrespect for civil authority.
England (1938):
A custom has prevailed in the past, where the Tyler of the Lodge procured the regalia each candidate was required to purchase. The Tyler purchases these from the regalia manufacturer at the full catalogue price and
collected the same amount from the candidate, but he in turn received a
substantial discount on paying the manufacturer, which was his commission . ..
The Board of General Purposes held that the Tyler was in reality an
agent of the candidate and . not of the manufacturer and that the candidate
should receive the benefit of the reduction. They· recommended th3.t in the

PROCEEDINGS OF THI!.

GRAND LODGE
OF CALIFORNIA
.
;

future the Lodge procure the regalia instead of the Tyler. Their recom~
mendation received the hearty approval of the delegates.

be necessary for a big butter and egg man to go to New York City to s~e
some real smuttiness. We of Amra Grotto can put on a show that will
make the old boys sit up all bugeyed with excitement and besides afford
them a little opportunity to woo the Goddess of Chance.
Having put on one of these elevating and entertaining spectacles .i!1
1936 and suffered nothing worse than an investigation and told not to do it
again, these irrepressible fun loving individuals in whom the brain centers
controlling the sense of decency ceased to develop when they stopped
wearing diapers, decided in the face of a second warning to put on another
show or carnival.
·From the report furnished by an investigation the Grand Master was
convinced that certain games of chance, and immoral and indecent performances had taken place. In consequence of which he ordered the
Masters of the Lodges in :Knoxville to ascertain what members of t~eir respective Lodges held membership in Amra Grotto and to instruct su~h members to terminate their membership in said Grotto not later than July 1, 1937,
as after that date membership in the Grotto would constitute grounds for
preferring of charges.
At this junction the Grand Monarch of the Supreme Council of the
Grotto hearing of the affair cancelled the Charter of Amra Grotto and the
affair as far as the Grand Mastei: was concerned was closed.
In ·this we for one are not in accord with the Grand Master. The same
leadership that sponsored the action of the Grotto are still members of the
Masonic Craft. The revoking of the Charter of Amra Grotto does not
cleanse the Craft of the objectional riffraff that joined it for the purpose of,
in the majority of cases, of gaining membership in these so-called higher
bodies of Masonry, it doe!' not relieve the Craft of the stigma of still having
as members individuals who would flaunt the authority of the Grand Lodge
and stoop to putting on an objectional and i11;1moral show for the entertainment of their membership.

350

North Dakota (1938):
(Grand Master): However, after reading our Masonic Code and a digest
of treatment of similar matters in 'other jurisdictions, I have reached the
conclusion that the scheme or device as contemplated to be used by this
organization appeals to the same gambling instinct in an individual and
accomplishes the same purpose as though it were an out and out lottery.
It is the aim and desire of the Masonic institution that no one connected
with it should do any act which should bring the organization into disrepute.
The stand of our Fraternity relative to gambling, liquor, Sunday observance
and the like, has been definitely and clearly defined. It is none of our concern if any other organizations permit any of these devices to further sales
or raise money even though the purpose for which the money is raised may
be charitably mentioned. The general effect of a scheme such as suggested
is identical with that of a lottery and I do not believe that it would be in
keeping with the principles of our Fraternity.
Ohio (1939):
(Gra11d Master}: "To engage in the selling of intoxicating liquors, to be
drunk upon the premises where sold, shall subject the Brother so offending
to charges and expulsion; it shall also be a disqualification for initiation or
affiliation in any Masonic Lodge." (Adopted).
Oregon (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Nevertheless, our most es'. imable,
and we truthfully say greatly admired colleague, Brother Archdeacon of
Western Australia has at times spoken disapprovingly of what he terms the
chaotic condition of the law in American jurisdictions in relation to liquor.
We in turn have defended our action with the argument that Masonry
in America has always had a distinct aversion to liquor in connection with
Masonry or any of its functions.
We believe we are right, for Grand Masters in America have not had
occasion to speak as did the Grand Master of. the jurisdiction under review,
when he said, "After labor comes refreshment and invariably such is within
the bounds of propriety. Unfortunately, however, there is a tendency for
many Lodges to continue proceedings long after the singing of the National
Anthem, and frequently w('.11 past midnight. Instances are not unknown
where an adjournment is made elsewhere and festivities continued indefinitely. Most members of the Craft are married, and such practices are
scarcely fair to their wives and families. Conduct of this nature is not in
the interest of the Craft and. cannot help being viewed by outsiders ':Vith
gravest disapproval. The festive board must be closed a,fter the singing
of the National Anthem. On the question of harmony, at times the items
given are scarcely in keeping with the dignity of a Freemason. The responsibility for decorum, whilst a Lodge is in session and at the festive board
falls solely on the \Vorshipful Master , and he has ample powers to curb
any unseemliness. There is no excuse for failure to · keep the festive board
within due bonds."

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Life to the tired harassed business
men who in their spare time. directed the affairs of Amra Grotto, had lost
its zest. The ordinary things that amuse could no longer arouse them from
their lethargy. Their entertainment must be more up-to-date. It must not

357

West Australia (1939):
(Reviewer): When reading the Proceedings of the different Grand
Lodges, and especially the denunciations of gambling, I sometimes ask
myself whether Lodge representatives attending Annual Communications
at which those denunciations are delivered ever listen to them or have the
brains to understand them. For years past Grand Masters in various Grand
Jurisdictions have repeatedly declared that Lodges must neither sponsor,
originate nor become associated with games of chance or gambling devices,
or lotteries for Masonic or charitable purposes. For years past Grand
Masters have repeatedly described at those communications that when such
gambling was initiated or sponsored by organizations like the Shrine or the
Grotto (which predicate their membership on the Masonic qualification),
those distinguished Grand Masters have taken prompt action against the
offenders. For years past Grand Masters have repeatedly issued edicts
against these practices and had them transmitted to the Lodges within their
jurisdiction. Yet these infractions of Masonic law persist.

•

•

•

(Reviewer): A certain organization predicating its membership on the Masonic qualification and composed entirely of Masons, was seized with a brainwave. It filled a quart glass jar with !ima, kidney, and navy soup beans in equal
parts. The wavers offered a prize of a hundred dollars to the skilled wight
making the closest estimate of the total number of the beans in the jar,
which to make the challenge more tinctured with Masonry was a Mason

359

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

jar. To improve the occasion by giving it greater eclat, and possibly to add
seductiveness to the paltry £20 prize, it was decided to hold "some public
entertainment while the competitors writhed in shocking agony in their
attempts to calculate not only "how many beans make five" but the brainwracking determination how many "fives" there were in what Mr. Mantalini would have styled "the demnition total." And, to make this affair what
Australian slang calls "all Sir Garnio" the competitors had to purchase
tickets. Also, the notice of all these details told the competitors "Bring or
mail your estimate to either the circus office, where jar is on exhibition, or
at the circus when attending." Whether the public entertainment was a
circus does not transpire. The postal authorities did not treat this as a
lottery.

Naval Academy, a privilege reserved for the sons of the nobility in the
homeland. At least that American citizen does not take his liberties too
much for granted.

353

•

•

•

(Reviewer): The domestic affairs of a Grand Jurisdiction are, of course,
its own affairs, and so too is any interpretation put on any of its laws.
Acknowledging all this without reservation of any kind, one may point how
wide may be the application of Masonic Prohibition in Idaho, which like
other Grand Lodges in the United States, is "dry." Asked by a Lodge "is it
proper for a Lodg.e to serve be.er in a dining room after a Masonic Lodge
meeting?" the ' Grand Master responded, "No. I would rule that the use of
beer, malt, vinous, or spirituous liquor in that part of a building used for
Masonic purposes; o~ in any hall owned or controlled by any constituent
Lodge, or at any Masonic picnic, dance, or social gathering sponsored by a
M.asonic Lodge, is prohibited." Both the Jurisprudence Committee and
Grand. Lodge app.roved. Evidently there is a considerable interval in point
of time between the · Idaho custom and the 18th century English custom
when the .Lodge refreshed itself in the Lodge room while the Master and
,his pfficers performed a degree cermony in the "Makings Room," where
they c.ouldn't even smell the refreshments.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

The Grand Master of Massachusetts, on his visitation, presented
Grand Master Lewis with the Henry Price jewel. Henry Price was the
first Grand Master of the provincial Grand Lodge at Boston which Massachusetts claims as the beginning of things Masonic in this country. Mention
that in Pennsylvania, however, and you can get a fight in a hurry, so this
particular ceremony may, in the next century take. on added meaning.
Doubtless our grandchildren will be told (in Massachusetts) that it indicates that Pennsylvania's Grand Master, in accepting it, conceded the
claims of Massachusetts, while in Pennsylvania they will learn that by coming to Pennsylvania to do the foul deed, the Bay State recognized the
latter's seniority. Just what difference it all makes, we never could quite
fathom, but we doubt not that the controversy will still be raging down
through the centuries.
The Grand Master reported having attended a meeting of a London
Irish Lodge which was held in the Tower of London-the first and only
Masonic meeting ever held in that notoriously famous building.

OFF THE RECORD

As you know, except for one period of thirty years, a member of our
House has occupied the Throne of Grand Master for over a century and a
half. For the past sixty-five years this Throne has been filled first by our
grandfather, King Edward VII, and then by our great uncle, the Duke of
Connaught, who is beloved by men and Masons throughout the world.
During this period, English Freemasonry has prospered in a remarkable
manner. It will be ·no easy task for any Mason to follow in their footsteps
but I have every confidence that you will succeed in the office to which .
you have been elected by your brethren.

Throughout the Proceedings reviewed there are various interesting
stories or quotations from Grand Masters, Grand Orators, Chairmen of
Correspondence Committees and others.
·
· .. We present herewith some of those which ..,;e believe will be interesting
and instructive to the reader and relieve the monotony of our formal report.
. A story is told.of an American sergeant during the battle of Gettysburg.
Under cover of smoke and some protecting woods, he had carried his flag
forward until it was several hundred yards in advance of his regiment. The
<;olonel in command saw, as he thought, that the flag had gotten too far
ahead of the soldiers and he sent orders to the sergeant "Bring the flag
~ack to the. regiment." But the sergeant's only reply was to say to the
messenger, "¥ ou tell the colonel to bring the regim.ent up to the flag."

The matter of the number of Masons who signed the Declaration of
Independence seems to produce as many different opinions as does the
number of "Landmarks." Grand Master Patterson stated that 29 out of 56
signers were Masons. W. L. Boyden in his "Masonic Presidents, VicePresidents and Signers," names 15. Of course in the twelve years that have
passed since the book referred to was published, the additional 14 may have
been discovered.
Some years ago "The Square and Compasses" of New Orleans, quoting
the "Home Journal" of Kentucky listed 23 signers, but in that number
was the name of John Adams, who was not a Mason, according to his son,
John Quincy Adams ("Letters on the Masonic Institution," pp. 10-12).

•

•

•

We Americans take our liberties altogether too much for granted. My
grandfather was born on a great baronial estate in Denmark, and he had
not the liberty to leave the land on which he was employed. My father
cam'e to this country and one of the proudest days of his life was the day
when he learned that his two daughters had qualified as teachers in the
great educational system of the State of Wisconsin. But the proudest day
of his life ' was when he learned that his grandson had been admitted to
opportunities .open only to sons of the nobility in the homeland, and that
grandson was to have the opportunity of being educated . in the National

•

•

•

*

•

•

However, we fail utterly to follow him in his tendency to eulogize to
the world, St. Andrews Lodge, led by Joseph Warren, and joined by
"others who damned the English" in staging the "Boston tea party." We
would here register our humble voice in solemn protest to the placing in the
hands of Joseph Warren, of "Desaguliers, of Voltaire, Frankli~, · washington
and (or) Bolivar" as individuals, much less over Masonry in organized
form, the flag of r,nilitancy, inscribed, I am, or we are Masons. Yes, conditions in the world may and do change, but principles never. God forbid that
we should ever harken to the voice of misguided zeal, in its ' present destroy-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANJ? LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ing and annihilating efforts at innovation upon the very "body of Freemasonry."

Brother John J. Pi:rshing. This noted citizen and soldier was raised to
the Sublime Degree of a Master Mason in Lincol~ Lodge No. 19, A. F .
& A. M:, on December 22, 1888, while Most Worshipful Brother Wil~on
was serving as Master of ~.hat Lodge. Being familiar with the part played
in the history of our nation ,by military leaders who were members of the
Masonic fraternity we can and do feel justifiable pride in recording General
Pershing as a fifty year member of our ancient and honorable order.

360

•

•

•

One day the Grand Master of Delaware said to me, "Macauley, you
and Kain are two great fellows. You know, I think you are the three
greatest liars in the West." "\Vell," I said, "there are only two of us."
"Vfell," he said, "you are one, and John Kain is the other two."

•

*

•

•

•

Although we have a large collection of American Anti-Masonic pamphlets, published mainly during the periods of 1826-40 and 1867-84, we dis-.
covered others by taking the bound volumes apart. Seventy-five additional
pieces, some of them duplicates, were found.
An unusual book :
Very Puissant Brother Sir A. Henry Md\fahon, 33rd degree, G. C.
M. G., G. C. V. 0 ., K. C. I. E., C. S. I., presented to the Grand Lodge
Library a copy of his book entitled " An Account of the Entry of H. M.
Habibullah Khan Amir of Afghanistan Into Freemasonry." The work was
privately printed and limited to only twerity-five copies.

•

During this year was celebrated the greatest event in Canadian Masonic
history; the Bicentennial of the founding of the .first Masonic Lodge in
our Dominion at Annapolis, N. S.
The founder of Freemasonry in that Province, of which New Bruns.wick was then a part, was Erasmus James Phillips, a major in a regiment
of British infantry stationed in Nova Scotia. While in Boston in 1737, be
became a Mason. On his return to Nova Scotia he carried with him a Warrant from Henry Price, then Grand Master of Massachusetts, appointing
him Provinci"al Grand Master for Nova Scotia. He formed a Lodge in the
garrison at Annapolis in July, 1738. Thus from this small beginning.
Masonry in Canada has grown to a membership of 171,600.

•

•

•

I notice that he speaks of two Lodges whose names, he considers,
"read like a fairy story." These are Toolag·oolawah and Kin Kin. If placenames are thus significant, what kind of a fairy stpry would he evolve out
of the aboriginal name of a more or less ancient aboriginal settlement in
the north of Western Australia, long since passed into oblivion. It is none
too easy to spell, and equally difficult to pronounce. It is " Pin-thar-coothar-burdi-ngang-di-ngar-di-ngong." The nearest pronunciation, as given
to me by a wild aborigine who lived there, is "Pinth-thar-coot-thar-purdhee-ngar-dhee-rtgong," and my aboriginal informant told me it re.ferred
to a native spring of water and the vegetation which surrounded it. This
was confirmed to me afterwards by
white friend acquainted. with the
language. . . . Perhaps my Brother reviewer may amuse himself with
getting a "half-nelson" on this awful word which reminds me of the paragraph in "English as She is Spoke" ; Baroness Orczy ! Spell it!! Say it ! !!"
" Pintha," etc. has haunting possibilities greater than Mark Twain's famous
street-railway jingle, "Conductor, when you receive the fare, punch in the
presence of the passenjare," etc.

a

•

•

•

An>event of more than ordinary interest to Nebraska Masons occurred
on J an·uary 5, 1939, at Tucson, Arizona, when M: .• W: . Henry H. Wilson,
Pa~t Grand Master, prese.nted a Fifty Year badge to · our distinguished

•

•

361

•

Visitations to two Lodges disclosed that the Charters were not kept in
safe places. One Charter in particular, bearing the signature of Most Worshipful Josiah H. Drummond, was found after long search in the pedestal
of the Master's station, in an opening down through the floor. The officers
of that Lodge were ordered to procure a Charter of Certificate and to put
the original Charter in a vault for safe keeping. They gladly complied with
the order.
Some of the Lodges keep their original Charters in the desk drawer
of the Secretary, a custom which should be done away with at ortce.

•

•

•

The Grand Secretary of Arkansas called the attention of Grand Lodge
to a decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas in the case of Franklin
vs. Parallel Lodge, rendered October 3, 1938, in which it was held that a
provision, such as found in the Constitution of Grand Lodge, to the effect
that upon demise of any subordinate Lodge its property belongs to and
is vested in the Grand Lodge, was contrary to public policy and void as a
confiseation without judicial process.

•

•

•

The practice of holding a re-obligation night seems to be proving very
popular and the Grand Master reports that a large majority of the Lodges
held such a meeting on the date set. This year no speeches were allowed
(which would certainly cramp our style in North Dakota). Apparently
after Lodges were opened, the obligation was given a11d Lodge closed and
it is said that the very simplicity of the meeting increased its impressiveness.

•

•

•

The Grand Master reported on the work of a General Masonic Service
Comn_iittee app~inted by him to collect funds for the temporar1 relief of
Americans, particularly women and children, who had been obliged, in many
instances to leave China on short notice. Many Americans had been sent to
Manila. This committee raised 9,500 pesos; met every boat bringing refugee$; assisted in having them placed in comfortable homes; advanced funds
wherever necessary for food and clothing, and in some cases furnished
transportation to the United States. . These expenditures were all made as
loa.ns, which had been repaid, and the money had been returned to the
donors, with the exception of P66.45 for operating expenses. That ·w as a
fine and timely service.

.. •

•

Poverty has kept many children in the State out of school in the past
and this year the state department of education put on a concert'ed drive
against illiteracy and solicited the assistance of the Grand J,..odge. This
opportunity to practic~ a little "applied Masonry" was gladly embraced by
the Grand Master. It 1s reported the school attendance jumped upward by·
30,000 within the year. The following story is recited as an example of the
extreme need and example of the gratitude of recipients:

362

GRA~l,D L9DGE OF CAJ.IFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF tJiE •• '

"In one of the schools in a remote section, -the teacher secured a pair
of shoes through the Masons, for a boy who had been attending school·
without shoes during one of those intensely cold periods. He wore the shoes
to school the following day and the teacher noticed that he removed them
wheri he came in after recess, placing them on the floor where he could
sit and look at them. He sat and admired them a few minutes and then
looking around to see if he were being obse·rved, picked the·m up and
shined them on his overalls, and placed them carefully on the floor again.
He was so proud of the shoes that he wore them only when it was absolutely. necessary .. for protection from the cold and when not in 1.1se, placed
them where he could sit and delight in the possession of them."
This story, alone, is worth all of the cost of the entire project.

•

•

•

I took part in a very interesting meeting in London last June, as your ·
report shows. It was a meeting of the Glittering Star Lodge, which is about
180 years old being founded somewhere about 1754 or 1756. They were one
of the Lod~es which helped to found the Grand Lodge which joined
shortly afterward with another Grand Lodge to found the Grand Lodge of
Massachusetts, and they have been active in the Fi~st Battalion of the
Worcestershire Regiment ever since, and are a very active Lodge now.
As you know, the Guards guard the Tower of London. For three weeks
in the year the Guards . go on. maneuvers, and a line regiment is called on
to undertake the duty of mounting guarcj. in that ancient fortress. The
Worcestershire Regiment received that privilege this Summer, and their
Lodge thought it would he a fine thing to meet in the Tower of London.
Permission was granted by R.'.
Brother Field-Marshal Sir Claude W . .
Jacob, who is Colonel of the Regiment, and al~o Governor of the Towe~,
who attended the meeting. It was the first time that a Craft Masonic
meeting was ever held in the Tower--<>r there is no record of such a
Masonic meeting ever having been held in the Tower of London beforeand it is a matter for congratulation that it should have been held by an
Irish Lodge. I gladiy embraced the opportunity of attending and opening
the Lodge in ample form, and, with other Grand Officers·,'.clothed in one of
the dungeons. We had the pleasure of welcoming the Deputy Grand Master and the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of England, and
M.'.
Brother Lord Saltoun, representing the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
We. opened in ample form, and a Brother initiated one of their color-sergeants and I am sure if the Grand Director of Ceremonies had been there,
he wo~ld have approved of the work. The initiation was admirably done,
and showed that the traditions that had been learned 180 years ·ago are
being splendidly carried out.

w:.

w:.

POLITICS
it is to be regretted that too often members of the Masonic. Fraternity
use ·their connection with the Craft to promote their political aims and ambitions. This is evidenced in a number of Masonic publications who publish
advertisements of aspirants for public office and print their Masonic affiliations in connection with the same.
While these publications are not recognized as speaking for Masonry
the general public view them· as such.
.
Perhaps the best solution will be to prohibit any publication, under
private management, to us~ the word "Masonry'.' : in connect~~n therewith,
and also make it a Masonic offense for ·an aspirant for political office to
advertise his connection with the Craft.
·

363

Florida (1939):

(Grand Master): One of the sore spots in connection with. Masonry in this
Grand Jurisdiction, and I assume it is no different from others, is the man.ner in which some political candidates attempt to use Masonry to fur.t her
their own political anibitioris. It is not only unseemingly on the part of
any Mason to parade his Masonic affiliation to serve his political ambiti'ons,
but it holds the Order up for ridicule by the non-Mason and the general
public..
It is a standing joke in many parts of the Grand Jurisdiction that you
can always tell when a political campaign year is approaching by the influx
of would-be political officers into Masonic meetings and the very sudden
interest they acquire in Masonic affairs. If they are elected, they are rarely
seen in Lodge until the next campaign. If defeated, they are not seen · in
Lodge, and unless they are going to make a retry for some political office
they want, the chances are that they will drop out for non-payment of dues
only to rush in and pay up back dues and get themselves reinstated if the
political office fever rises again.

Political office seekers have been heard to declaim from the platform
before a public audience that .they were "High Masons," even as high as
the 33rd degree.
These Masonic misfits do not know, as the Masons know ana the
public knows, that they are really doing themselves an injury ~s well as
bringing more or less shame on the Masonic Fraternity.
·
I do not know if it is practicable to frame any law of Masonry that
would put a period on this practice, but I hope the Jurisprudence Committee of this Grand Lodge will take the matter under advisement and if
at all possible, draft a regulation that will at least tend to put the soft
pedal on it.
'
'
Nebraska (1939):

(Grand Master) : Durin~ the past year, several complaints have come
to your Grand Master regarding political activities of certain individuals
which have been given the appearance of .activity by Masonry as a body.
· On one occasion cert'ain hand ·bills were sent to the Secretaries of
Masonic Lodges and to others, professing to give the religious and Masonic ·
affiliations of the various candidates for state office. The name of one candidate was followed by two question marks. On another occasion, the roster
of members of one or more Lodges in some manner came into the hands ·of
a candidate for political office and was used by the candidate in behalf of
his campaign.
\Ve know that the _particular actions referred to were not the actions
of the Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of Nebraska, nor the actions of any ·
Lodge or Lodges. They were the individual acts of individual members . of
the Order. We recognize the right of every man to participate in the civic
life of his community. Indeed, we urge each and all of our members to
take an ~ctive part in the political and civic affairs of the community; state
and nation. \Ve do,_ however, admonish them to remember that those
activities must be in th~ individual capacity of the Brother, and' he must
so conduct them that the _non-Mason will not be led to believe that the
action is that
a Masonic organization. In this connection I. p·a rticuiarh
call your attention to the pronouncement on political activities contain,e.<l in
the Declaration of Principles found alsewhere in this report.
·

o!

' i-,

364

PROCEEDINGS OF TH'£ '

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

148 pages, House document No. 529) and which could not be analyzed by
me in the short time available, has to do with our public school system,
and if it is passed and should become a law will appropriate large sums of
money to non-public schools.
We all believe in education of our children, but where appropriations
are made by the feleral government for education it should be for taxsupported free public schools only. As good citizens of the United States
of America we should be and are proud of our public school system, that
is, "free public schools open to all children without distinction as to race,
color or religion, or whether citizen or alien"; purely an American institu. tion, founded by our ancestors who fought the war of the revolution ·in
the belief that a democracy, where all have a voice in the government, can
only endure if the citizens are educated sufficiently to study and understand
the constitution and laws by which they live and practice the rights of
citizenship, and to that end should labor to improve, protect and preserve
our tax-supported free public schools.

The establishment by the Grand Lodge of California a number of
years ago is being followed by some of the progressive ~tates wh~ believe
in Masonry accomplishing something for future ge~erat,ions. ~h1l~ some
charge that activities of this character means engaging 1~ Politics, if such
is the case let us have more Politics in Masonry.
Texas (1938):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : U nder the ca.p tion: " Declarati?n
of Principles-Public Schools-Support Pledged," Granc~ Lodge adopted its
vigorous "Declaration-Pledge" in support of tho.se sections of the State
Constitution providing for free public education. It is not here stated but
we doubt not that as citizens of the proud Stat.e of Montana each and all
other sections of their State Constitution shall remain sacred and receive
their zealous and unqualified support. As to one of their meetings in observance of "Public Schools Week," it is related that: "Newspaper publicity was
given to the effect that the Lodge would participate. in t~e observance .and
that it would also invite participation by the local Kiwanis Club, American
Legion Auxiliary, Chamber of Commerce, and the churches."
Utah (1939):
(Cliairman Corresponde11ce Committee) : The Historical and Educational
Commission (Georgia)' expressed great satisfaction over the work of the
Public Schools Week Committee. Some "* * * 300 Lodges and 30,000
adults and children have been contacted and heard the story of the preservation and protection of public schools." The commission i;ecommen.ded that
the Citizenship Month and Public Schools Week be continued. With all of
which we are in hearty agreement, and this in spite of the fact that now
and again some Grand Correspondent places on such work the brand,
"Politics."

•

•

•

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : In Montana, as in s? many o~her
states one church in particular has endeavored to secure public money for
suppo'rt of its parochial schools and whenever and wherever possibl~ br~ng
its teachers and influence into the public schools. And at present leg1slat10n
is pending in Washington which opens the public purse for support of
parochial schools. This paragraph from the Montana Declaration: "To
their [public schools] preservation we pledge our efforts and our honor
as men and Masons, and reaffirm our allegiance to the principle of complete
severance of church and State and the free Public School."
Wisconsin (1939):
(Chairmaii Correspondence Committee) :. Public Schools Week was observed
by the Lodges of Montana and it appears that all except 18 Lodges held
meetings at which there was a total attendance of 10,633.
Wyoming (1938):
(Chairman Corresponde.nce Committee): May I call your attention at this
time not only as members of our great organization, but as citizens and
taxpayers, to a measure known as the Harris~n-1:homas-Fletcher. Bill.
S-419 which was before the 75th Congress and will without doubt be introduced in the 76th Congress. This proposed legislation which follows the
report of the Advisory Committee appointed b~ the P.resident and s~1b­
mitted by him to Congress without recommendation (said report covering

365

RITUAL
In a large number of jurisdictions perfection in the Ritual has become
the trademark of a Mason. Perhaps the sooner we get back to the original
idea that Masonry is to unite men who might otherwise have remained at a
"perpetual distance" rather than a strict adherence to form, ritual and ceremonies, the sooner Masonry will become a vital institution. '
Arizona (1939):
'(Grand Master): Although I have seen few of our Lodges confer degrees during the past year, so cannot say how rigidly our ritual is followed
when initiating, passing, and raising candidates, I have listened critically
to the opening and closing ceremonies, and have been struck by the
numerous minor variations used in many Lodges. In very few of them have
the officers been letter-perfect in their parts, and in some instances rather
serious errors were noted.
I am positive that this situation is not in any way the fault of our
Grand Lecturer~ it would be hard to find a more diligent and conscientious
officer than he is. Neither do I blame the Deputy ·Lecturers. It is, I believe,
our system that is at fault. As long as the work must be learned by listening to brothers who must depend almost entirely upon more or less unreliable memories, and the Lodge officers and Deputy Lecturers have a
chance to check their renderings during only a week or two each year,
mistakes are sure t'o be made.
I am not one who believes that complete accuracy in rendering our
ritual is essential; I should much rather hear it given fluently and forcefully, with expression and feeling, even if to some extent inaccurately, than
to. listen to a letter-perfect rendition delivered haltingly or monotonously.
The thing I really deplore is the unnecessarily excessive amount ·of time
that must be devoted to the task of learning their work by most of the
officers under our present system. Many of' us experience extreme difficulty
in memorizing material wholly by ear, and are greatly aided if we can also
use our eyes, especially as we can then go over the work repeatedly whenever we have leisure to do so.
I am convinced that much · of the time now consumed in learning the
ritual could be spent much more constructively in making our stated meetings more enjoyable and instructive, and that the adoption and distribution
of an initial-letter key would not only materially shorten the time now

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GKAND LODGE OF.CALIFORNIA

devoted to memorization, but would result in much more uniform and
correct ritualistic work.
I am aware .of the fact that this Grand Lodge has voted adversely _on
this plan, but those of us who wish to have Lod!Se officers put t~e ?1a1or
part of their time and thoughts upon the. really important an? s1gmficant
things that we should be doing are not discouraged. We .reahze that few
.improvements are adopted when firs.t sug_gest.ed. We ~n~w .th.at the plan
n1entioned is used with complete satisfaction m many 1urisd1cttons, so we
shall surely not be doing anything reprehensible by adopting it.
I strongly recommend, therefore, that our Grand Lectu~er prepare
an initial-letter key of all our ritualistic work, occasionally usmg two or
perhaps three letters for a word when experience ha_s shown that the wrong
one is apt to be used, that this initial-letter key be printed,, that the necessary .
amount to cover printing be budgeted, and that five copies be sent to each
Lodge in the state, to be entrusted to the Mast~r, the Senior Warden, the
Junior Warden, the Senior Deacon, and the Jumor Deacon.
I further recommend, if the preceding resolution is approved, that
the use of the keys be forbidden during the time a Lodge is in session.
They are to be used solely as aids in memorizing the work.

are not easily read by a person who has had any experience with ritualistic
work, and it is begging the question to presume that adequate protection
would be given to such ciphers as to prevent their falling into improper
hands. Here in New Mexico we have had experience in one Masonic body
with such ciphers. They may be found in unlocked drawers of desks in
Lodge rooms, indiscriminately mixed with ciphers and rituals of o't her
bodies that meet in such Lodge rooms. Many of us have seen the meetings of that body, both opening and closing ceremonies and the conferring
of the degrees conducted with a cipher in the hands of practically every
officer. If we wish our ritualistic work to deteriorate into a reading class,
this seems to be the most effective manner in which to accomplish the
result. Your committee, therefore, recommends that no cipher be adopted
by this Grand Lodge.

366

Maine (1940):
(Grand Master): During the past three years, I have attended many
Schools of Instruction presided over by the Grand Lectu;er. My obser~a­
tions have been that at every school he devoted much time to c_orrectmg
rituals, many of them old ones, so that the officers and brothers might have
the correct information before them.
The Grand Lodge has a cipher ritual written in long hand, used by the
Grand Lecturer at all schools. Thus far I have been unable to find. any
official action by the Grand Lodge authorizing the use of any cipher ritual.
Notwithstanding that fact, nearly every Lodge officer uses _the~ to prepare
himself to work in his Lodge. Apparently we tolerate their e::i:1~tence, and
at the same time we officially frown upon their use. Such cond1t1ops should
not continue.
I therefore recommend that the Grand Lodge, at this Annual Communi~ation, authorize the appointment ~f a committe~ to c?n~id~r .the
advisability of making a cipher ritual available for use m our 1unsd1cbon,
anq report to the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
For your information, we found that in 1937 the Grand Secretary of a
large western jurisdiction investigated the whole ~atter, and. found th.at
thirty-two grand jurisdictions authorized the use of ciphers or rituals, while
seventeen had regulations prohibiting their use.
Massachusetts (1939):
(Grand Lodge): The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, in December, 1939,
voted unanimously authorizing and requesting the Gran~ Master "to cause
a suitable ciphc;r ritual to be printed and to be made available to the Craft,
at such price and under such conditions and restrktions as he shall deem
advisable."
New Mexico (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Referring to th~ reco~menda­
tion of the M. W. Grand Master that this body adopt and prmt a cipher of
the esoteric work, your committee feels that this would ~e near!y as great
an evil as the open printing of the ritual. There are few 1f any ciphers that

367

North Dakota (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : A resolution was adopted requesting the Grand Master (Oregon) to bring the matter of unification of
the ritual before the Grand Masters' conference. We do not know if he ·c omplied, but if he did, it is a cinch that the result w as no more than a tolerant
smile. There is no more chance for such a proposal than there is of Hitler
embracing Judaism.
West Australia (1939):
(Reviewer) : In Mississippi the Committee on Masonic Law and J urisprudence advises the Grand Master on his rulings, which seems to me a much super.for method to the more usual practice of sitting in judgment on his decisions
after they have been rendered. The following, which summarizes one of
the cases submitted and dealt with, is the only one of outstanding interest
to the Craft in general, and also points to the curious ideas of a certain
type of Mason relating to Lodge ceremonies. A Lodge proposed to hold
a barbecue, which, of course, is the open-air roasting of an animal for
consumption by attendant picnickers. I have witnessed it on our Perth
esplanade in bygone days, and on the ice on the River Thames in London
when I was a child, but on neither of those occasions was the affair styled
a barbeque, as the Lodge appears to have spelled it, although as it is a
Haytian word, the Lodge spelling may be correct. The Lodge seems to
have conceived that there was a certain harmony, if not affinity, between
the Sublime Degree of a Master Mason and the roasting of an animal, provided it could be combined with a Grand Master's dispensation to perform
the cereinony in the open air more or less in the vicinity of the roast, in
the sure and certain hope of the spot being insulated against cowans and
eavesdroppers, and buttressed by the expected presenc of Grand Lodge
officers, and eke a special team from a neighboring city to confer the degree
in the presence of the brethren and t he roasted ox. But the Committee on
Wet Blankets, or rather Jurisprudence, unfeelingly said it did not think the
Grand 'Master had authority to grant such a dispensation, and for its own
part exhibited a thoroughly useful dislike for open-air degree ceremonies.
And then it added the last straw which broke the camel's back by saying,
"We are in favor of encouraging Masons to meet in camps and club houses
in fraternal companionship and hilarity, but we think they should confer
their deg'r ees 'in the Lodge room, and then repair to the· place of festivities."
With which opinion this scribe heartily agrees. It is in tune wtih the eternal
fitness of things, but the degree we call "Sublime" owing to its splendid
lessons (which need not be mentioned here) combined with the odor of
roasted ox ·assailing one's olfactory organs, and in the questionable privacy

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the open air is unthinkable. We all know there is a Berlin-Rome axis,
but a Sublime Degree-Roast Ox axis is, as the Irishman said, "impossible
· to think of when you come to think of it."

naturally inquired when he had received his promotion. He said, "I am still
a sergeant, General Abernethy saw me shivering, took off his overcoat
and told me to wear it."

*

This is perhaps an example that Masons "meet 'upon the Level and
part upon the Square,'' and was a demonstration that "Masonry regards no
man for his worldly wealth or honors."

368

*

*

Doubtless, as a result of contact with the Grand Master, the Arizona
Grand Lecturer had an attack of ceremonialism and while concerned with
his official report incubated a ritual for the presentation of buttons to
veteran members. To make sure that his incubatory stage was what it
ought to be, the Grand Lecturer infected himself with the highly contagious
ritual followed by California.

*

*

(Reviewer) : A matter that frequently astonishes the writer when reviewing the volumes of Proceedings is the emphasis placed by Grand Masters on the work of the Grand Lecturers. This lecturing is imaginary rather
than real, for what is mainly done is to teach the Lodges how to perform
the ritualistic work. It is, of course, proper that the degree work should
be performed correctly and impressively, but the system of lecturers does
not seem to me to make for such efficiency as we obtain by the Master
instructing his brethren at the rehearsals, and our Grand Inspectors passing
on the results. Still, it is North Carolina's affair, and the system seems to
satisfy Grand Lodge, but the same system--one prevalent in most of the
United States-seems to me to negative the oft-repeated explanation of a
Master's duty: "To employ and instruct his brethren in. Freemasonry."

*

*

*

Tinkering with the ritual by unskilled workmen is about as likely to
produce good work as the "tinker's dam" of olden days, when cracked.
Even among skilled Past Masters, it took a Campbell-Everden in England to produce a revised ritual abolishing old absurdities and travesties of
fact. I know brethren in Australia as impressed with their powers of improving the ritual as the Spanish king of several centuries ago was of his
abilities as a demiurge, when he impiously declared that had the Creator
. consulted him at the Creation, he could have saved Him many absurdities.
Loyalty to the ritual as "well as to Masonry, brethren.
VISITATIONS
We believe that one of the best methods to demonstrate what Masonry
should and actually does are visitations between the various States~ Whether
or not the Ritual is in strict accordance with the jurisdiction visited, _o r
conferred according to that of the visiting Lodge or Degree Team, is to us
of little importance. Strict constructionists wiU, of course, take exception to
this statement.
·
.. '
If the writer may illustrate his idea from a personal experience it may
convey his opinion. During the World War there was mustered into service
in San Francisco the 364th Ambulance Corps which served during the
entire period. All were Masons. One of the men was a Master sergeant.
Years passed and the next time I saw him was in a Masonic Lpdge.
The Uniformed Degree Corps of San Francisco Chapter No. 18, Na-.
tional Sojourners, composed of Master Masons, conferred the Third Degree
on the top of Sentinel Dome in Yosemite Valley, the second highest point
in California. Most of us left our overcoats at camp in the floor of the
Valley. Between the First and Second sections I again met the sergeant
above referred to. He was wearing the overcoat of a Brigadier General. I

369

Maine (1939):
(Grand Master:) Sec. 137 of the Constitutions of the Grand Lodge ordains:
"No Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons can legally assemble
in this State under a warrant or charter granted by any foreign Masonic
power."
Information has been received that Lodges of other grand jurisdictions
have been invited by Lodges in this State to assemble in Maine Lodge
rooms and there work the degrees upon their candidates under a ritual
of the grand jurisdiction from which each Lodge came. This method, of'
course, is contrary to the provisions of said Section 137, and no Lodge in
this grand jurisdiction should encourage such procedure. The inter-visitations of members and officers of the Lodges of the several states should
be encouraged, as such course tends to promote general interest and enthusiasm, increases attendance and lays the foundations for splendid friendships. There is, however, a right way by which it may be done. The
proper method of proceeding is plainly set forth in the Maine Masonic
·Text Book.
We know that the aforesaid procedure, thoughtlessly done, was intended to have been in the interest of the Cr~ft; we hope, however, that
officers of host Lodges will be more careful in the future.
Oregon (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence C;ommittee:) To fraternize, says he, to see
degrees conferred in a different way and according to a different ritual
naturally produces ·more interest in our own methods of procedure, but it
should not arouse a desire to emulate their methods as did two Lodges who
after a visit to an American Lodge, discarded their own regalia and adopted.
the American type. He ventured the opinion that the two Lodges that
permitted their admiration to run away with them will soon revert to the
former style and size of regalia required by the Canadian Constitution.
Rhode Island (1939):
(Grand Master): So-called "Degree Teams," not members of the Lodge.
may exemplify any of the three degrees in any Lodge in this grand jurisdiction, upon invitation of the Worshipful Master and with the consent of
the Grand Master, but must not actually initiate, pass or raise real can-·
clidates.
Utah (1938):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master (Saskatchewan) felt it necessary to call attention of Grand Lodge to the tendency on
the part of some members when proposing or responding to toasts at the
festive board, to indulge in questionable stories and allusions. This subject had been brought up by the Grand Master who preceded him, and those
admonitions no doubt had some ·effect, but of late there had been a
recrudescence of suggestive . anecdotes and allusions. He expressed the

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

371

hope that it would be sufficient to call this matter to the attention of the
brethren.

existed for impressing the candidate by wedding the Tower of Babel to
the really trying experiences of the American Masonic Third Degree?

Utah (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): "(c) Anything in these By-Laws
to the contrary notwithstanding, any Utah Lodge may hold a special meeting in the Lodge room of any other Utah Lodge, either alone or jointly with
another Utah Lodge or Lodges, for the purpose of conferring degrees,
installing officers, doing educational work, or conducting funerals, on the
invitation, or with the approval, of the Worshipful Master of such other
Lodge. Likewise, any Utah Lodge may (1) hold a special meeting .in the
Lodge room of any regular Lodge, or in any other suitable meeting place
outside of Utah for the purpose of conferring degrees, doing educational
work, or conducting funerals; and (2) meet with any regular Lodge or
Lodges · of other recognized Masonic jurisdictions, either within or without
Utah, for said purposes; ritualistic work if performed by a Lodge of another
jurisdiction may be in accordance with the standard work of that jurisdiction; provided (a) that the Grand Master of Utah shall issue a dispensation
therefor, which he may do without fee; after he shall have satisfied himself that the holding of such a meeting at the time, in the place, and for
the purpose proposed is agreeable to the Grand Master of the foreign
jurisdiction concerned; and provided further (b) that ritualistic work done
by a Utah Lodge or on a candidate of a Utah Lodge shall be in conformity
with Utah Standard Work, except that when a Utah Lodge is visiting a
Lodge or Lodges outside Utah, the opening and closing, the lecture, and
the charge may be in accordance with the standard work of the jurisdiction
visited." _

Wisconsin (1939):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): There is al':"ays so.methin~ in
the reports of the English dependency Grand ~odges, 1f that. 1~ the right
term, which is entirely. different from the doings of our United Stat~s
Grand Lodges. For instance the following from the Grand Master s
address under the heading of "Festive Board":
"On two occasions during the Grand Mastership of his predecessor,
Lord Gowrie then Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven, had found it necessary
to draw the attention of the Grand Lodge to the impropriety of questionable
stories and allusions by brethren when proposing and responding to toasts.
He (the Grand Master) had no doubt that Lord Gowrie's admoni~ion and
advice had had its effect at the time, but it seemed that. of ~ate the~e h~d
been some recrudescence of suggestive anecdotes and 1llus1ons which ill
became the dignity of the Order."
N 0 doubt the same admonition could be given our brethren with ben~­
ficial results, but we have never known a Grand Master to allude to this
subject.

••

•

•

There is much in this report we would like to pass on to the Craft,
but space forbids. Here for example is one comment with which we are
in full accord. Under California, he remarks on dispensations authorizing
meetings to be held in Death Valley and in Vosemite Park. Such meetings,
he feels, are inadvisable, and are held to satisfy someone's desire for the
spectacular, which is not in keeping with the spirit of Masonry. So say we.
West Australia (1939):

(Reviewer): One feels inclined to wonder why some American Lodges
are disposed to favor "stunt" meeting places. Of course, a condition precedent to the issue of a dispensation is that the place must be adapted to close
tyling, so that neither cowans nor intruders may indulge in eavesdropping.
I remember that some years ago a Lodge in one of the United States was
refused a dispensation to meet for a degree ceremony in a fish hatchery,
above all places of the world. One shudders to think of the young fry
having the opportunity of spying on Masonic degree labor, and the inability
of the Lodge to treat them as the Irish . Lodge treated the Hon. Miss St.
Leger, the celebrated lady Freemason. Probably, the Grand Master refusing
that application shuddered also. There were, however, no shudders when
one Montana Lodge obtained permission to hold an open-air meeting "in
the pines" near a town, or when similar leave was given to another Lodge
to hold a similar meeting on a place described as "Pompey's Pillar Rock at
Pompey's Pillar" for a degree ceremony. Not only was the necessary
assurance as to tyling given in both these cases, but as regards "Pompey's
Pillar Rock at Pompey's Pillar" the Grand Master thus described the stunt
meeting place: "The ·rock stood two hundred ·feet above the surrounding
plains, and it was an easy matter to see that the Lodge was duly tyled."
Certainly-likewise indubitably, but what earthly ·or unearthly possibility

BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS
Under the above heading we list excerpts from the Proceeding~ of
other Grand Jurisdictions. In other words-"What the Other Fello~ Thinks
of us." These Reviewers or Chairmen of Correspondence Committees are
experts in culling and we heartily appreciate their criticisms-be they
constructive or destructive.
89th Annual Communication, Grand Lodge F. & A. M.
San Francisco, California, October 11-14, 1938
James T. Fraser, Grand Master
District of Columbia:
Truly the Grand Master says: "Our Homes are of first importance."
In finely chosen words the Grand Master calls Masons to a? alert
and patriotic citizenship, and the Grand Lodge adopted a resolution by
which each Lodge "is requested" to devote one meeting a. ye~r, preferabl!
in September (to commemorate the signing of the Constitut10n) to patriotic exercises.
The spirit is commendable, but definitions are sometimes tr~ublesome
and patriotism and politics are not so very far apart. We think these
things could better and more properly be done by Masons through civic
organizations in their capacity as citizens.
The report of the Grand Secretary is in particularly fine form giving
comparative statistics from the year 1934.
One of the best things we have read recently is the address of the
Grand Orator, Warren E. Lib by. It will. rep~y anyone. who will go to
our library and turn to page 36 of the Cahforma proceedings. Fortunately
its force was not limited to those who heard it in Grand Lodge o~ who
review proceedings-it was ordered printed in pamphlet form, distributed
to all Lodges and to be read at the first communication after its receipt.
Perhaps in our own Grand Lodge (or any other), a similar action,

373

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

annually reaching .Lodges with the· sanction of the Grand Lodge, might
be quite a step in "Masonic Education."
·
V,Then we picked up this column we made the mistake of looking at
the correspondence report first. It is in topical form, which we personally
cio not like, and it was put together with a pair of scissors and a paste
pot, but Brother Jesse M. Whited made the darn thing so interesting by
the skill of his selections that we spent a long time reading and thinking
about it.
We don't like it, but we enjoyed it and perhaps it did us good.

most men, his active interest was instant, and he has a distinguished record
of service.
The address of the Grand Master was pleasingly short. He did not take
the world as a field for his comment.
It has been said that good Americans, when they die go to Paris,
but good Iow:1ns ·g o to California before they die and then they don't
want to go to heaven.
The Grand Orator, Warren E. Libby, deliv~red a long, learned, and
eloquent address on "Our Responsibilities." It was an old subject but was
well handled with some new illustrations.
The California Masons emphasize the observance of "Public Schools
Week." The program is ambitious and the attendant results astonishingly
good. It is a laudable effort that might well find imitators, especially wh~re
public school education falls far behind California where such education
stands in the front rank.
Brother Jesse M. Whited is Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence. His main article is in topical form with added comments on
and quotations from the several Proceedings. The whole report makes interesting reading but does not lend itself to analysis.

372

Georgia:
A devotional service, including a ringing sermon on "Faith, Hope
and Charity" by Grand Chaplain Reverend A, Harry Stevenson, opened
the grand communication. Such is most fitting.
Whereupon the Grand Secretary confirmed the statement b:ic his ab.le
"31st annual report."
"Our Responsibility" was the fine tlieme of Grand Orator Warren
E. .Libby.
The report of the Nineteenth Annual Observance of Public Schools
Week shows continued achievement.
So does the report on Masonic Education.
The Masonic Employment Service continues to increase in value.
The Report on Correspondence comes from the able Craftsman,
Brother Jesse M. Whited. It is a splendid topical report.
Illinois:
The Grand Master's enthusiastic pride in and love for his own state
and the institutions of our national government is reflected in the closing
paragraphs of his address.
Right Worshipful Brother Warren E. Lil?by, Grand Orator, delivered
an address on "Our Responsibility." It was a splendid address well worthy
of perusal.
The Nineteenth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week, fostered
by Grand Lodge and subordinate Lodges throughout the jurisdiction, was
uniformly successful.
·
Right Worshipful Brother Jesse M. Whited furnishes one of the
finest reports on foreign correspondence which it has been our pleasur·e to
read. It is not an attempted review of the proceedings of the . various
Grand Lodges but rather a very thoughtful and philosophical discussion
of many of the subjects which engage the attention of other Grand Lodges.
Brother Whited is a thoughtful and interesting writer upon Masonic
-questions and on the whole we find little to criticize in the views expressed
by him although we are not always in full and complete accor~ with his
views. Every Grand Master and Grand Lodge Officer will find a careful
reading of his report both interesting and enHghtening. We make no excerpts from his report because each subject is treated with the same care.fol consideration as all the others and we find it difficult to make selec.tions.
We earnestly commend a careful perusal of t~is entire report.
Iowa:
The portrait of Past Grand Master James Thomas Fraser appears
on the first page of the Ptoceedings. A strong, wholesome face bearingthe Scotch out-Scotch the Scotch and where their inheritance of canniness
and shrewdness has been sublimated. While he entered Masonry later than

Kentucky:
Seven pages of the Proceedings were used to print the Annual Oration
by Brother Warren E. Libby, Grand Orator. His subject was "Our Responsibility." His oration was full of human interest and wise counsel. He
is to be congratulated on this splendid piece of work.
Mexico:
The Report of the Committee on the Nineteenth Annual Observance
of Public Schols Week was a repetition of former years, but with emphasis
on the continued success of this splendid Masonic work. That it is a success
is proven by it being imitated in various other jurisdictions. "There can
be no doubt that there are many more people today than ever before who
are giving serious thought to the real objectives of public education."
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence covers eighty pages
in topical form, as usual. It is the fifteenth annu~l report by Chairman Right
Worshipful Brother Whited. Procedings of sixty Grand Lodges have bee!1
summarized. We like the Appendix-which gives the Annual Communications Month of Meeting; A Masonic Calendar, American Grand Bodie~;
American Free Masonry, Chairmen of Committee on Correspondence, California since 1850· Grand Lodges, date of organization, annual communications ~nd proceedings reviewed as well as Foreign-Membership Statisticsa mine of valuable information and data. We admonish our readers to watch
California-it is growing fast, and. with the big Fair will attract many sojourners who may become permanent residents. "Go West, young man" was
a good slogan before, but today it is-"Go West, young man and don't stop
until you arrive in California."
Missouri:
The Grand Orator in California grew extremely oratorical and referred
to that "Immortal Mason, Abraham Lincoln." The Grand Secretary was
ordered to print and distribute the ora~ion and thereby publicity is given
to a statement that certainly cannot be proven.
Reviewer Whited refers to Alpha Lodge, a Negro lodge in New Jersey,
which is the only regular Lodge composed exclusively of Negroes in any

374

PROCEEDINGS OF· .T HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

375

American jurisdiction. Brother \Vhited regards the Negro Grand Lodge
as irregular rather than clandestine.

mittee 'on Policy, however, sidestepped his recommendation for teeth in the

Montana:
The address of the Grand Master is comparatively brief, as befits a
man of actions, rather than words.
The Grand Master closes his address under · the caption, "Chief Glory
of California." He paints in eloquent terms a beautiful word picture of the
glories of the "Golden State."
One activity in California Masonry the value of which is evidenced by
the almost ·unanimous response of the Fraternity is the observance of
"Public Schools Week." From no jurisdiction have we found such glowing
results from this enterprise as in this active Masonic state. Reports from
the press, from the State Department of Education, from teachers and
students, all testify to the interest on the part of the public in this observance and fully justifies .the assertion that the program is worthwhile.
Public Schools \Veek Observance has been carried on under the
auspices of the Grand Lodge for eighteen years and the popularity of the
activity is attested by .the fact that practically every city, town and hamlet
in the State recognizes its value and endorses its aims and purposes. ·
Grand Orator, Warren E. Libby, gave an interesting address on the
subject "Our Responsibility."

Just why it is impossible to stop them using the name "Masonic" it
is hard to understand. It could be done through the courts in any other
state. The best way to kill a snake is to cut off its head, not try to reason
with it.
The same committee, as was to be expected, held that their present law
was sufficient to take care of the nuisance of gambling but failed to explain
why preceding Grand Masters have also urged that something be done,
without avail. The parasit'es are strong in number both of organizations and
membership in California and to a man up a tree it looks as though they
are afraid of the cars. There has been no such uncertainty elsewhere in dealing with the issue, nor has there been trouble in making the boys walk the
chalk-line.
Brother Jesse M. Whited is the only correspondent who gets out what
can correctly be called a topical review, although those of Missouri and
Nebraska are generally considered as such. This year he has an interesting
foreword and then heads each topic with a short comment of his own. The
titles of his topics are unique and his comments all contain real meat. Of
course we think he uses excellent judgment in his clippings, because we
notice many credited to the North Dakota correspondent (even one or two
which we never wrote).

Nevada:
The customary Devotional Service was conducted by Rev. Brother
H. Barry Severson, Grand Chaplain. The brethren would do well to read
this sermon.
We consider the oration of Brother Warren E. Libby to be one that
should be read by every Mason.
Brother Leon 0. Whitsell, well known to Nevada Masons, was elected
Grand Master.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presented his fifteenth annual Report on Correspondence. It is of topical form. A most interesting and instructive foreword precedes the adual report.

Ohio:
The Committee on the Nineteenth Annual Observance of Public
Schools Week filed a seven-page report which shows no lacking of interest
in this activity of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Orator, Worshipful Brother Warren E. Libby, delivered
a very fine oration upon the thesis, "Our Responsibility."
Brother Jesse M. Whited furnished seventy-five pages of spicy and wellprepared Reviews in his usual "topical" form and covering nearly fifty.
subjects.
·

New Mexico:
Observance of "Public Schools Week" in California showed excellent
results. The report given to the Grand Lodge is worthwhile reading.
The chairman of the Foreign Correspondence Committee, Brother
Jesse M. Whited, writes his review in the topical form adding his own
worthwhile and interesting comments. He summarizes the proceedings of
sixty Grand Lodges.
New York:
Brother Jesse M. Whited continues to be the head of this Committee.
As in the past, worthwhile gleanings from various Proceedings are given
under appropriate headings, such as: "Who is Who in China?", "Pin on
Another Medal," "Telling Them Where to Head In," etc.
North Dakota:
The Grand Master paid his respects to the so-called Masonic publications which are run as private enterprises and which have been flagrantly
disregarding the principles of and the good name of Masonry. The Com-

~~

.

Oregon:
The Grand Master's message was bl'ief, telling in concise language
what he had accomplished, the visits he had made and the decisions and
dispensations rendered.
The Annual. Oration delivered by Grand Orator Warren E. Libby
.who took as his subject, "Our Responsibility," is an exceptionally fine
one and we recommend it to our readers.
The Nineteenth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week was like
its predecessors a huge success. Through the years that this activity has
been fostered by the Masonic Lodges it has grown from a . purely Lodge
affair to one in which the entire community takes an active part as individuals and members of the various service clubs and other fraternal organizations.
The Review is by Jesse M. Whited and is his fifteenth contribution
in his seventeen years of service to find its way in print. The differP.nce
between the fifteenth and the seventeenth, or two years, represents a period
in the history of the Grand Lodge of California which for want of a better
name can be called a "period of darkness." It was not an actual darkening
of the sky · however, the famous California sun continued to shine (which
we can't believe for it rained for eleven straight days the last time we
visited 'Frisco to escape the Oregon mists) but rather their perception was

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

so dimmed that they printed many needless pages of repetition and for the
sake of economy deleted the report of the Foreign Correspondent.
As we were saying, when the urge came to tell that we have "mists"
in Oregon, the Review by Jesse M. Whited is one made up of clippings
from the various Proceedings, in the selection of which he manifests a
keen reportorial sense.
Oregon at the hand of our colleague to the south was accorded considerable space for which we of this great State, forgotten by the War
and Navy Department, are deeply grateful.

our indebtedness to him. One value, among others, of this· method of treatment of the subject is that it leaves him free to pass by ail merely routine
matters in the Proceedings at hand.
·

376

Texas:
Another of th e Grand Master's complaints made to Grand Lodge is :
A "case of gambling or conducting a lottery . .. " by whom not stated but
inferentially by some one of the "parasites," since we have him saying: "We
have altogether too many parasites, attached to the body of Masonry. They
are a detriment to our Institution; they retard our growth, and they are
contaminating the life stream of our fraternity. They should all be
abolished."
Turning now in haste to the report of the Correspondent, which is
Brother Jesse M. Whited's sixteenth, and as usual in topical form, our already exhausted time forbids our immediate perusal of more than his introductory remarks. Just a little coinciderital that we should be just now
awaiting the proof galley sheets of our copy already in type, in the hope
that we might use Grand Master Steuart's response to the toast " Grand
Lodges of the United States," at Nova Scotia, in preparing our introduction,
without duplication. Oh, well, "Moslem" like, Brother Jesse was . one of
"those that do know (and the first to) tell those who don't." Hats off to
him.
Utah:
Following the opening of Grand Lodge, the Grand Chaplain conducted
Devotional Services, which included two vocal selections, and an address,
not long but thoughtful, and a brief prayer. This feature is a fine and appropriate preparation for the strenuous labors that follow, and we speak
by the book, for we had the privilege of being in attendance on one such
occasion in this Grand Lodge.
The report of the Committee on the Nineteenth Annual Observance
of Public Schools We~k is filled with ;;iteresting items and incidents, and
of greater importance still, it tells of really constructive work being done,
and of a continuing and increasing interest on the part of the people in this
observance, which has come to be a com~unity affair. The importance
and value of this work can hardly be ove·r-estimated. The Grand Lodge
of California is to be congratulated on having sponsored and fostered this
splendid work.
Th'is is interesting, and we cautiously venture to add, "unusual." The
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State, and Senior Warden of
Grand Lodge, introduced five Associate Justices of that Court, each of
whom was a Past Master of his Lodge.
·
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is the work of its
chairman, Brother Jesse M . .Whited, and is in topical form. The writer,
under the topics selected, first comments, criticizes or expresses his own
opinions, and then brings together excerpts from the Proceedings of other
jurisdictions bearing on the same matter. \Ve have .expressed our appreciation of this brother's work on several occasions and also acknowledged

377

Vermont:
The report of the Committee on Correspondence was again by Brother
Jesse M. Whited. Brother Whited prefers the topical form of review and
produces one of the best of that form. It is very easy to discover from
what Grand Lodge Proceedings he is quoting. All his selections from other
Proceedings are truly worth while.
Vir.g inia:
All in all, Grand Lodge of California is shown to be moving along
right lines under able leadership.
. Public Schools Week, an annual observance under direction of Grand
Lodge, proved highly effective as a public relations enterprise.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presents his fifteenth review. He is a master
in topical Masonic composition. He has been writing these for seventeen
years, but his Grand Lodge, we believe, did not print his work for two
years.
Washington, 1939:
The Grand Master strikes out in a decisive manner on what he terms
"So-called Masonic Publications."
A volume could be written covering the activities of this Grand Lodge
on its Nii~eteenth Annual Observance of Public Sc,hools Week.
We wish we had space to further amplify this wonderful program of the
Grand Lodge of California.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is written by Worshipful Brother Jesse M. Whited. He begins his review with a dissertation
on a variety of subjects, among which we find these: "Who's Who in
China," "Order of DeMolay," "The Citadel of Our Liberties," "As the Twig
is Bent," and numerous other subjects, a discussion of which is prompted
by something gleaned from the' Proceedings of other jurisdictions. The
subjects are too numerous to name, but the complete review is w~ll worth
while. ·
Masonry in California is doing worthwhile work.
Western Australia:
Then there was that new variety of Helichrysum, the seeds of which
the wind seemeth to be blowing where it listeth, providing the list is in the
· United States, namely, gambling by lottery, in disregard of Masonic rightthinking. And here I confess to amazement, for when living in California
I was informed by what scoffing brother Masons called "men, clergymen
and other women," that lotteries were so barefacedly contrary, to California
law, and the penalties so mountainous that not even that comic Angels'
Flight railway at Mount Lowe could climb the punishment. But it was
shown to the Grand Master that the lottery scheme did not violate the
State law, whatever it might do . to the Masonic one, which apparently it
did. And as American Grand Masters seem partial to freak laws and legislation now, as if they were desirous of grazing in fresh fields and pastures
new, the author of the Message recommended that such schemes _be made
Masonically unlawful unless they had a Grand Masterly imi;>rimatur fastened to them, in order to show what good little things they were. All the
same, I do agree most fervently with the . Grand Master that "an end

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

should be put to a source of annoyance and disregard for the good name
and well-being of our institution."
I once heard an American Grand Secretary spoken of as "A Grand
Master's backbone." · I don't think the speaker meant the vertebral column; rather he meant, I think, the Grand Mast-er's mainstay. And, indeed,
everywhere a good Grand Secretary is as valuable "as Solomon's virtuous
woman-"above pearls." At most American annual communications Grand
Masters deliver appreciations of their Grand Secretaries, and these are well
deserved.
Attention has been given, not only to perfection in the wording of the
ritual, but also to expression and emphasis, says the Grand Lecturer's report. " Officers are encouraged to lend themselves whole-heartedly to the
work and attempt to live the part they are exemplifying." Let us hope they
don't exemplify too artistically. The American third is sufficiently strenuous without the super-imposition of realism.
There is a certain hint of irony in the Grand Lecturer's reference to
the well-known Lodge complaint: "We have no work," which Lodge officers regard as synonymous with degrees, and in the absence of the one
and only "work" nothing else counts. But the Grand Lecturer points to
the educative side of the Craft as proof. Yet I verily believe that the average Lodge officer, if asked to spell "work" would reply "D-e-g-r-e-e-s,"
poor fellow!
It does not seem to me twenty years since I heard at the California
annual communication the discussion out of which in Grand Master Charles ·
A. Adams' year of office (1920) was evolved the observance of Public
Schools Week. Yet in the volume under review one notes the report of
the committee on the Nineteenth Annual Observance, and that report reflects increased interest of the community in the public school!'- And a better
understanding of the aims and purposes of the schools. Such an achievement seems more beneficial than would have been Masonic sponsorship of
the Stirling-Towner bill, which was the subject of that discussion.

sin, a fact we doubly regret, because of the excellence of his report and
the keenness of his comments. We like to know what others think about
us and can sometimes benefit by constructive comment.

378

West Virginia:
The Grand Master delivered his address, which was in keeping with
the importance of the Grand Lodge of California.
Grand Orator Warren E. Libby delivered a fine address on "Our Responsibility."
We are wondering where he got the idea that Abraham Lincoln was
a Mason. We long since noted that Horace Greeley, a brother Mason, went
on the bond of Jefferson Davis, who was a brother Mason; but we never
·heard of Mr. Lincoln being a Mason, and history disputes the Masonic
membership of General Grant.
The Committee on the Nineteenth Annual Observance of Public
Schools week made a fine report of the cooperation of the Lodges and of
the public officials of the state which made it, as heretofore, a success.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes furni~hed an extensive
and good report.
Brother Jesse M. Whited sub.m itted his topical and inimitable fifteenth
review and report as Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence. It
furnished valuable information and is highly instructive.
Wisconsin:
Brother Jesse M. Whited gives us <!noth,er outstanding Report on Corre.s pondence, but we regret that he found very little to report from Wiscon-

379

Wyoming:
The Committee on Clandestine Masonry makes a very good report to
the Grand Lodge.
The report on Correspondence is a topical one and is made by Brother
Jesse M. Whited. In compiling the same over sixty Grand Lodges have
been summarized, with a view of giving the reader, briefly, outstanding
Masonic matters.
90th Annual Communication, Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.
San Francisco, California, October 10-13, 1939
Leon 0. Whitsell, Grand Master
Connecticut:
A deserved rebuke is administered by the Grand Master to those who
do not keep a watch on their lips while irt the presence of the profane.
His recommendation for a Research Lodge met with approval, but
not so the adoption of the Massachusetts plan of a Service .Committee. Door
prizes were disapproved.
The work of fostering School Week continues su~cessfully.
As. usual, the report on Clandestine Masonry is interesting.
District of Columbia:
Splendid work is being done by their Masonic Home and Relief and
Employment Service.
The report of the Grand Secretary is particularly intelligible and makes
interesting comparison of figures for ten-year periods.
Upon the recommendation of the Grand Master and a special committee,
authorization was given for the appointment of a committee to consider
the question of establishing one or more "Research" Lodges for the promotion of a deeper study of Masonic lore.
The Correspond~nce Report is in topical form, and while it contains
sopie interesting reprints it is, as usual to this writer, less intelligible than a
·
.report in conventional form.
Maine:
A word of warning under the caption "A Watch at Our Lips" was
voiced by Grand Master Whitsell. It was a timely word which called attention to the all too common tendency to speak too plainly of those things
which should be discussed only behind tiled doors and never in the presence of the profane. How carefully and even drastically these mysteries
were concealed is seen in that ancient admonition "to set a guard over
our thoughts, a watch at our lips and post a sentinel over our actions."
' An informing "Oration" was delivered by R.'. W.'. Brother D. Ellsworth Meyer, under the title "The Quest." It is printed in full and touches
on those vital and unspoken meanings of Masonry which are difficult to
express in words.
The annual report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California
shows a conservatively administered institution with sufficient surplus to
carry forward the work of these homes through the coming years.

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Twentieth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week is considered in an extended and readable report of- the committee. This is no longer
an innovation in California, but a well established feature of Grand Lodge
activity and could be profitably followed in every grand jurisdiction in the
United States.
·
This reviewer is tempted every year to devote the entire review to this
one outstanding feature of the Grand Lodge of California.
Brother Jesse M. Whited writes and compiles the Foreign Correspondence report, which is in the topical form and consists of thoughtful
excerpts from Grand Lodge proceedings, mostly from Correspondence
reports and Grand Masters' addresses.
Minnesota:
The committee on observance of Public Schools Week presented a
most interesting report, reviewing the growth and development of the
movement.
The Grand Orator, Brother G. Ellsworth Meyer, delivered a learned
and strong address.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presented his 16th annual report on fraternal
correspondence, compiled in topical form from proceedings of over 60
Grand Lodges, under a classification of 23 subjects.
Mississippi:
In conjunction with Masonic relief, California gives unemployment
service to Masons desiring it. Said the Grand Master: "This is some of the
finest work in which we are engaged-the relieving of distressed worthy
Master Masons; the rehabilitation and salvaging of willing workers out of
employment through no particular fault of their own. This is 'iri the truest
sense Masonry in action-Masonry at work."
New Hampshire:
The Grand Master is a believer in the results obtained from the
establishment of Research Lodges and makes recommendation ' that a committee be appointed looking toward the formation of the same. Grand
Lodge concurred, the committee was appointed. In our opinion the Grand
Master will make a valuable member of such a Lodge.
It would be difficult to enumerate the many truly Masonic activities of
this great Grand Lodge, but it is safe to say that their two Homes, one for
the aged and one for the young, constitute the very center of their philanthropies.
Their Committee on History has made good progress duririg the year
and much valuable material has been assembled.
Brother Jesse M. Whited, Reviewer since 1919, again favors his readers
with a compilation of interesting material enriched with comments and
observations of his own. His work makes the Proceedings of the Grand
Lodge of California valuable as a book of reference.
New Jersey:
Brother Whited again treats his . readers to a literary melange of excerpts from the addresses of Grand Masters and from the reports of other
reviewers, with occasional comments on same.
The comments of the Reviewers loom largest in his report, taking up
about two-thirds of the seventy-odd pages devoted to that work. This

GRAND LODGE OF CALlF.OE.NIA

381

makes Brother Whited's product as a whole entirely distinctive from all
other Reviews, either topical or otherwise, mostly otherwise.
Saskatchewan:
According to the Grand Master the }4asons of California can point
with the greatest pride to the Masonic Homes. He advised the brethren
to impress every member to visit the homes at Decoto and Covina and see
for themselves the splendid services rendered.
The Review of Correspondence is by M.'. W.'. Brother Jesse M.
Whited. Sixty Grand Lodges are reviewed 'and the thought and activities
of the various jurisdictions are referred to briefly. Reference is made to
the Declaration of Principles by many Grand Lodges. Thirty-six of the
Grand Lodges in the United States maintain homes and those which do
not have charity funds from which assistance is given the helpless.
Oklahoma:
The Correspondence Report is by subject rather than by grand jurisdiction. Oklahoma is apparently not mentioned. Under the subject, "Travel
in Foreign Countries," they reproduced an address which Past Grand Master Melvin M. Johnson of Massachusetts delivered to the Grand Lodge of
Virginia in 1938. This is very interesting and very instructive. After reading it we have a better understanding of Masonry (n foreign countries.
We wish it could be more widely read.
South Carolina:
The Grand Chaplain, V.'. R.'. Brother Richard V. Perkins conducted
a most uniqoe devoti'onal service.
We note a refusal of the Grand Master to grant a request that a Lodge
be permitted to use twelve fellowcrafts in the third degree. We wonder
how many fellowcrafts they do use in the third degree.
Public Schools Week continues to meet with hearty approval throughout the state and apparently much good is accomplished through the programs presented.
M.'. W.'. Brother Jesse M. Whited again provides us with a very fine
Review of the Proceedings of other jurisdictions. His Reviews are certainly different from any of the others. He does a fine job of it.
Tennessee:
The committee on Twentieth Annual Ob~ervance of Public Schools
Week reported a very successful observance during the last week in September. This Public Schools Week was instituted in 1920 because of the crisis
with which the public school system in America was then confronted. There
was such a scarcity of teachers that more than 18,000 schools had been
closed. Today in California there is probably not another anniversary with
the exception of Independence Day and Thanksgiving and Christmas, which
is so widely observed as is Public Schools ·Week.
Wednesday, October 11th, the second day of the Annual Communication was devoted to Masonic Day at Treasure Island, site of the Golden
Gate International Exposition. Approximately half of the 43,000 people who
attended the Fair on that day were there because it was Masonic Day.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence was prepared by
Worshipful Brother Jesse M. Whited, chairman. His plan of selecting a
topic, writing an explanatory paragraph, and then quoting succinct paragraphs from the various Proceedings, makes possible the use of his reviews as material for speeches with very little difficulty.

382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Vermont:
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is again published. It
is by the veteran reviewer, Brother Jesse M. Whited, and is topical in
form. Brother Whited is an adept at producing this form of review and the
present one is filled with selections from the Proceedings reviewed.
Virginia:
California does not pester about Grand Representatives.
Brother G. Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Orator, delivered the annual oration entitled "The Quest." It was a real contribution to Masonic thought.
Brother Jesse M. Whitecl, again presents the Review; as we said before
we are delighted to have his reviews again. His selections are well chosen.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

383

APPENDIX
ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS-MONTH OF MEETING
January-Minnesota, Tennessee, Philippine Islands.
February-Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma,
Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Arizona, Cuba, South Carolina.
April-Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Australia, Mexico
(York), Porto Rico.
May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode
Island, New Zealand, Western Australia.
June--Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, New South Wales, North Dakota,
Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin, Alberta, British
Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan,
Queensland.
·
July-Canada.
August-Montana, Wyoming, N cw Brunswick.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri, Utah.
October-California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, ' New .
Mexico, Ohio, West Virginia.
November-Arkansas, Maryland.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania; Ireland.

MASONIC CALENDAR
Ancient Craft Masons-Commence their era with the creation of the
world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L .), "in the year of light."
Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 4000-5923.
Scottish Rite-Same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology
is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
1.dd 3760 to the common era. Thus : 1923 and 3760-5683. After
September add another year.
'
.
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the year the second temple was commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno lnventionis. (A. Inv.), "in the year of discovery."
Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and 530-2453.
Royal and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the temple of
Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.), "in the year of the
deposit."
Add 1000 to the common time. Thus: 1923 and 1000-2923.
Knights Templar-Commencc their era with the organization of their
Order. Anno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the qrdcr."
·
From the Christian era take 1118. Thus: 1118 from 1923---:-805.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year of .the blessing of
Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benedictionis (A. B.),
"in the year of the blessing."
To the Christian era add 1913, the year of blessing. Thus 1923 and
1913-3836.

The Capitular degrees are conferred in a Chapter and are the Mark
Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent Master and the Royal Arch.
The supplemental and honorary degree of High Priesthood is conferred
in a Council of High Priests upon those who have been regularly elected
to preside over a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. They are called Capitular
because they are conferred in a Chapter, the word "Capitular" meanirtg
"done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the Royal
Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master. They are
called "Cryptic" because the word "crypt" means a secret vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are the
Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight Templar comes
from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the temple at Jerusalem
from the Mohammedans.
'
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the 33rd,
inclusive. In the Southern jurisdiction of the United States (which includes
all territory south of the Ohio River and west of the Mississippi River)
the organization of the different Bodies, and the degrees conferred by them,
are: Lodge of Perfection, 4° to 14°, inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, 15° to
18°; Council of Kadosh, 19° to 30°; Consistory, 31 ° to 32°; Supreme
Council, 33 °.
In the Northern jurisdiction (which includes all states north of the
Ohio river and east .of the Mississippi river) the degrees conferred are:
Lodge of Perfection, 4° to 14°, inclusive; Council Princes of Jerusalem, 15°
and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and 18° ; Consistory, 19° to 32°: Supreme
Council, 33°.

.384

AMERICAN GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons-] ohn H. Anderson, General Grand High Priest, Raleigh, North Carolina; Charles A. Conover,
General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Michigan; 45th Triennial Convocation, Salt Lake City, Utah. Chapters 3,469, Membership 493,127.
. Grand Chapter of California-Walter C. Haight, Gran·d High Priest,
Visalia, California; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary, San Francisco;
87th Annual Convocation,. San Francisco, April 18-19, 1941. Chapters 1,221 ,
Membership 18,031.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters-Charles H . Johnson, General Grand Master, New York, New York; 0. Frapk Hart, General
Grand Recorder, Columbia, South Carolina ; 21st Triennial Assembly, Salt
Lake City, Utah, 1942. Councils 1,361, Membership 163,656.
Grand Council of California-Roscoe G. Hewitt, M. I. Grand Master,
Santa Ana, California; Thomas A. Davies, R. I. Grand Recorder, San
Francisco; 8lst Annual Assembly, San Francisco, April 17, 1941. Councils
32, Membership 5,701.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar-Mark Norris, M. E . Grand
Commander, Grand Rapids, Michigan; Adrian Hammersly, R. E . Grand
Recorder, Indianapolis, Indiana ; 42nd Triennial Conclave (Date to be announced ). Commanderies 1,625, Membership 244,117.
Grand Commandery of California-Harvey E. Teller, R. E. Grand Commander, San Francisco; Thomas A. Davies, E. Grand Recorder, San Francisco ; 83rd Annual Conclave, San Francisco, April 21, 1941. Commanderies
65, Membership 9,948.
Supreme Council, A. F. & A. S. R. (Southern Jurisdiction)-John H .
Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander, Washington, D. C.; C. ' F .
Kleinknecht, 33° Hon., Acting Secretary-General, Washington, D. C. Meets
bi~nnially, third Monday in October, Washington, D. C.
William Parker Filmer, 33°, Sovereign Grand Inspector General for
California, San Franci.s co1 C~lifornia.
(Northern Jurisdiction~Melvin M, Johnson, 33°, Sovereign Grand
Commander, Boston, Mass.; Samuel H. Raynard, Jr., Secretary General,
Boston, Mass. Meets annually third Tuesday in September.
AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly speaking,
they should be termed the American Rite and the Scottish Rite, for the
one called York is peculiar in its organized proceedings only to the United
States.
·
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the Cryptic
and the Templar degree.
The Symbolic degrees are conferred in a Lodge and are the Entered
Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They are called
Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is by symbols.

385

CHAIRMEN COMMITTEES ON CORRESPOND.!!.NCE
GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M., OF CALIFORNIA
Years
1........John H. Gihon, California No. 1, 1850.
5...:.... Levi Stowell, California No. 1, 1851-1855.
5........ Alex G. Abell, California No. 1, 1856-1860.
1........ James L. English, Sacramento No. 40, 1861.
1.-..... William C. Belcher, Corinthian No. 69, 1862.
2........ Gilbert B. Clairborne, San Joaquin No. 19, 1863-1864.
2........ Henry H. Rhees, Marysville No. 9, 1865-1866.
1........ Lawrence C. Owens, Golden Gate No. 30, 1867.
15 •....... William H. Hill, Marin No. 191, 1868-1873, 1876-1882, 1884, 1887.
2•.......William H. January, San Jose No. 10, 1874-1875.
1........ Thomas H . B. Anderson, Los Palmas No. 366, 1883. •
5........ James W . Anderson, Pacific No. 136, 1885-1886, 1888-1889, 189~.
1........ William A. Robertson, King Solomon No. 260, 1890.
l... .....James M. Ellis, Fidelity No. 120, 1891.
!........William H. Edwards, Pacific No. 136, 1892.
13........ William A. Davies, .San Joaquin No. 19, 1894-1906.
1........ James B. Stevens, Yount No. 12, 1907.
1........ Alonzo ]. Munroe, Humboldt No. 79, 1908.
9..•..... Edward H. Hart, Live Oak No. 61, 1909-1917.
1........John D. Murphey, Alta No. 333, 1918.
1........John Franklin West, Pasadena No. 272, 1922.
1.......•James Lewis Matthews, Covina No. 334, 1925.
1........Jose:-ih E . Morcombe, Far West No. 673, 1934.
19........Jesse M. Whited, California No. 1, 1919-1921, 1923-1924, 1926-1933,
1935-1940.

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGES, DATE. OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED
When
Annual
Proceedings
Designation
Organized Communication Reviewed
Alabama · -- - -..A.F.&A.M. June 14, 1821 December
1937
Arizona ····-··---·······-F.&A.M. Mar. 25, 1882 March
1940
Arkansas --- .- · -- F.&A.M. Nov. 21, 1838 November
1939
California - -··- ·-··- -F.&A.M. April 18, 1850 October
Colorado ......- ,_,A.F.&A.M. Aug.
2, 1861
September
1939
1940
Connecticut ····-···-···A.F.&A.M. July
8, 1789 February
1939
Delaware -·-·····-······A.F.&A.M. June
6, 1806 October
District of Columbi;L... F.&A.M. Dec. 11, 1810 December
1939
1940
Florida - ·······----····F.&A.M. JUiy
5, 1830 April
1939
Georgia ··-····- ·······---F.&A.M. Dec. 16, 1735 October
1939
Idaho ··-·-·····---A.F.&A.M. Dec·. 16, 1867 September
Illinois _.........;-.......:A.F.&A.M. April 6, 1840 October
1939
1939
Indiana ··-··---~---·-·---F.&A.M. Jan.
12, 1818 May
1939
Iowa ····--··----~-..A.F.&A.M. Jan.
8, 1844 June
Kansas _...,. _____ _A.F.&A.M. Mar. 17, 1856 February
1940
Kentucky ___ __;____.F.&A.M. · Oct. 16, 1800 October
1939
Louisiana · - ··-____ F.&A.M. July 12, 1812 February
1940
1940
Maine -····-············-··A.F.&A.M. July
1, 1820 May
1939
Maryland - - ·· -·····A.F.&A.M. July 31 , 1787
November
Massachusetts ·-- ·····A.F.&A.M. July · 30, 1733 December
Michigan - - ··-·--··- ··F.&A.M. Sept. ' 14, 1845 May
Minnesota ........~ ....... A.F.&A.M. Feb. 24, 1853 January
1940
Mississippi .................... F.&A.M. July 27, 1818 February
1940
Missouri .................... A.F .&A.M. April 21, 1821 September
1939
Montana .....,_:...;.......A.F.&A.M. Jan. 24, 1866 August
1939
Nebraska ~i ... :.:.:·•.....:.A.F.&A.M. Sept. 23, 1857 June
1940
Nevada ........:........,........ F .&A.M. Jan.
16, 1865 June
1939
New Hampshire ...... A.F.&A.M.. July 18, 1789 May
1939 .
New Jersey.................... F./!i:A.M. Dec. 18, 1786 April .
1940
New Mexico.............. A.F .&A.M. Aug.
6, 1877 October
1939
New York......................'F.&A.M. Sept.
5, 1781
May
1939
North Carolina ........A.F.&A.M. Jari.
14, 1787 April
1939
North Dakota ..........A.F.&A.M. June 12, 1889 June
1939
1939
Ohio .....................,.,;..... F ..&A.M. Jan.
7, 1808 · October
Oklahoma ...,,.,..........A.F.&A.M. Nov. 10, 1892 February
1940
Oregon .............:........A.F.&A.M. Aug. 16, 1851 June
1938
Pennsylvania .............',.. F.&A.M. Feb.
2, 1731
December
1939
1939
Rhode Islan~..•......~ ...:.F.&A.M. June . 25, 1791 May
South Car.olina~ ......... A.F.&A.M. Mar. 24, 1737 March
1940
South Dakota............ A.F.&A.M. July 21, 1875 June
1938
Tennessee ....................F .&A.M. Oct. 1.4, 1813 January
1939
Texas ..................,..... A.F.&A.M. Dec. 20, 1837 December
1939
Utah ..............................F .&A.M. Jan. . 16, 1872 September
1939
Vermont ........................ F.&A.M. Oct. 14, 1794 June
1940
Virginia ....................A.F..&A.M. May
6, 1778 February
1940
Washington ................F .&A.M. Dec.
9, 1858 June
1939
West Virginia..........A.F.&A,M'. May 11,· 1865 October
1939
Wisconsin ................'....F..&;A.M.,. Dec. 18, 1843 June
1939
Wyoming ..................A,F.&A.M. Dec. 15, 1874 August
1939

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

387

Foreign Jurisdictions
When
Annual
Proceedings
~
Designation
Organized Communication Reviewed
Alberta ......................A.F .&A.M. Oct. 12, 1905 June
1939
British Columbia......A.F.&A.M. Feb. 22, 1832 June
1938
Canada ......................A.F.&A.M. Oct. 10, 1855 July
1939
Manitoba ..................A.F.&A.M. May 12, 1875 June
1939
New Brunswick............F.&A.M. Oct. 10, 1867 August
Nova Scotia..............A.F.&A.M. Jan. 21, 1866 June
1938
Prince Edward Island................
9
1 39
..................................A.F .&A.M. June 24, 1875 June
1939
Quebec ......................A.F.&A.M. Oct. 20, 1869 February
1940
Saskatchewan ..........A.F.&A.M. Aug.
9, 1906 June
New South Wales....A.F.&A.M. June
1, 1888 July
1940
New Zealand ............ A.F.&A.M. April 30, 1890 May
1938-9
Queensland ..............A.F.&A.M. April 25, 1904 June
1939
South Australia........A.F.&A.M. April 16, 1884 April
1940
Tasmania ..................A.F.&A.M. June 26, 1890 June & Dec.
1939
Victoria ..........,.........A.F.&A.M. April 16, 1884 Quarterly
1939
West Australia ........A.F.&A.M.
1899 Quarterly
1940
England _........'..:..........._...,..........- ..J une 24, 1717 Quarterly
Ireland.....................................,...........Aprll 6, 1731 December
1940
Scotland .............................................,.Oct. 15, 1736 Febr uary

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS, UNITED STATES
As in years past, we are indebted for this patient assembli~g of t~e
figures to Brother Charles C. Hunt, Grand Secretary of Iov.:a. Hts work is
accepted as official by the entire Masonic press of the Umted. States and
by other governing bodies of lhe Craft.
·
Comparative Statistics of Grand Lodges in the United States
Ind·ease•
Members or Decrease
Year
Lodges
144,402
2,765,869
1935........................................................................16,036
100,358
2,665,511
1936........................................................................ 15,910
66,261
2,599,250
1937....................................:...................................15,826
42,222
2,557,028
1938........................................................................15,719
35,377
2,521,651
1939.....................:.................................................. 15,630
32,064
2,489,587
1940.........................................................................15,567
United States, 1939-1940
Date
State
Alabama..................................... Sept. 15, 1939
Arizona................................... Dec. 31, 1939
1, 1939
Arkansas................................. Oct.
California................................ July 31, 1939
·colorado................................. June 30, 1939
Connecticut.......:...'..............;.. Dec. 31, 1939
Delaware.............:............:...,;,, June 24, 1939
District of Columbia.......... _. Sept. 30, 1939
Florida..................:.-..- ..- ·_.. Dec. 27, 1939

L odges
433
39
426
580
147
128
22
47
223

•Increase or
J.1embers Decrease
27,838
263*
5,440
137
106
23,535
126,739
383
29,434
203
34,601
707
5,188
161
20,141
291
19,998
146•

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GUANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Date
· Stale
Georgia...................,................ Aug. 31, 1939
Idaho.........................•...- .......•. June 30, 1939
111inois .................................... ~ June 30, 1939
Indiana.................................... Dec. 31, 1939
Iowa. .........•....................•., .... _. Dec. 31, 1939
Kansas..................................... Dec. 31, 1939
Kentucky................................. Aug. 31, 1939
Louisiana................................. Dec. 31, 1939
Maint ........................•.•.•..••.....• Mar. 31, 1940
Maryland................................. Oct. 31, 1939
Massachusetts ......................... Aug. 31, 1939
Michigan.................................. Dec. 31, 1939
M~n~~s?ta;·····························•· Dec. 31, 1939
M~ss1ss1pp1 ............................... Aug.
31, 1939
Missouri................................... Sept. 15, 1939
Montana... h.............................. June 30, 1939
Nebraska.................................. Dec. 31, 1939
N eva~a·························-········- Apr. 15, 1940
New Hampshire..................... Apr. 15, 1940
New Jersey....•......................... Dec. 31, 1939
New Mexico............................ Dec. 31, 1939
New York................................ Dec. 31, 1939
North Carolina........................ Dec. 31, 1939
North Dakota.......................... Dec. 31, 1939
Ohio..................................... :.... July 31, 1939
Oklahoma............................... Jan.
1, 1940
Oregon ...•....:......•.........• ~........... Dec. 31, 1939
Pennsylvania........................... Dec. 27, 1939
Philippine Islands..............•. _ Nov. 30, 1939
Rhode Island...................-...... May
1, 1939
South Carolina........................ Jan.
1. 1940
South Dakota.......................... June
7, 1940
Tennessee................................ Oct. 31, 1939
24, 1939
1, 1940
1939
~f:;~!~.---~_._._._._._._._._._._.:_-.-_-_._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.: ~~~: 30,
31, 1939
Washington ............................ Dec. 31, 1939
West Virginia.......................... Aug. 31, 1939
Wisconsin............................... Dec. 31, 1939
Wyoming................................ June 30, 1939

Lodges
491
81
994
543
547
439
512
247
206
121
325
512
302
317
628
135
290
26
81
278
55
1,037
333
123
623
416

171
565
102
43
268
172
396
893
26
103
331
268
164
308

i~~:::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: }~~-e

so

15,567

*Increase or
Metnbers Decrease
39,360
148
8,862
55
197,623
6,147
105,705
552
66,875
58
. 60,290
564
42,289
503
20,629
52
35,132
605
28,424
578
98,845
2,768
110,969
1,394
47,956
716
21,822
755*
87,678
1,651
17,807
2*
31,330
406
54*
3,130
12,960
190
73,687
1,810
6,113
109*
249,382
6,537
26,755
30*
10,922
207
173,318
1,380
734
44,810
24,026
179
174,677
3,137
5,431
19
15,639
463
17,503
116
14,362
700
36,091
286
98,445
2,068*
4,511
49
16,592
308
62
38,806
39,418
362
29,176
382
51,551
337
7,772
48

2,489,587

35,491
3,427*

Net Lo•*············-··H•················•·•··M""•·············•·····-······························ 32,064
Canada, 19~9-1940
Date
Lodges
Alberta..................................... Dec. 31, 1939
155
British Columbia:................... Dec. 31, 1939
118
Canada...................................... Dec. 27, 1939
569

*Increase or
Members Decrease
10,815
80·
13,438
127
93,842
1,827

Manitoba........•......•....•••••.__
New Brunswick.. ~············-··N ova Scotia.........••...•·-···········
Prince Edward Is••.•••.•.•.•.•.••••
Quebec ...••.......•;......•.•..•.••.•.- ....
Saskatchewan......•................•..

Date
Dec. 31, 1939
Dec. 27, 1939
Dec. 31, 1939
Apr. 30, 1939
Dec. 31, 1939
Mar. 31, 1940

389

Lodges
104
43
84
15
93
198

*Increase or
M etnbers Dec.rease
10,279
132
5,198
121
8,358
134
1,075
9
13,700
168
12,246
128

1,379

168,951

2,726

INDEX FOR 1940
A
Page
Accounts-Report of Committee......•...............................•..;.; ............................ 176
Activities Committee--Report of......;...'......................................... ..::... _......--¥•' 237
Adams, Charles Albert-Resolution to amend Section 263 .. :............... 156, 246
Advertising-political ........................................................ ,................................,•., 25
Affiliation-Fee for ................................................................................................ 242
Anderson, Leo E.-Oration.........................................................,_..,.-.....~.......... 51
Annual election of officers ...............................................~ .......,..~······ ...····· ........... 279
Annual elections in November-Ruling on.................._ .................................: 28
Annual Oration ........... :............................................,.....................................,.•.__ ,.. _ 51
Amendments to By-Laws-List of............................. ~ ...........,•.•.- ...·-··'-··--· 35
Amendments to go over one year ...................................................................... 246
Arizona-Visit to by Grand Master.................................................................. 19
Army and Navy-Fee for dispensation repealed ............................................ 241

B
Ballot-Possible nlistake ............................................ ,..............................:-······•,, 29
Barstow Lodge-Charter granted ....~....................•- .................................. ,.. .•. : 237
Dispensation for ..................................................:........................................... 32
Institution of .................................................................................................. 17
Bible dedicat.ed ......................................................................................................
9
Blight, Reynold-Eulogy by.................................. ·-··············:·········'··················· 195
Board of Control-Report of ···;·-················;.................... :.\~...... ~l ••• _;.,~·~•-:.::,, 201
Boards of Relief-Reimbursement for ........................................•..., ................. 220
Breakfasts-Grand Master's comments .......................................................... 17
Breslauer, Alfred E.-Committee on Segreg~tion ........... .'.• ,....•......... ,.......... :. 30
Bryan, Roy C.-Introducing.... .-.. - ..................................................................... :. 19
Budget for 1941 ...................................................................................................... 228
Building projects1 Report of Committee .............................".. :............ c............. 151
1
Burke, Samuel E.-Reappointed Homes Trustee............................·.............. 280
By-Laws-Amendments reported .................................................................... 35
Report of Committee: .......................... - ........................................................ 175

c
Caldwell, Frank D.-Retirement as Inspector................................................ 46
Canby Cross Lodge-Meeting in lava bed·-·······-···•··-···•·····-············•·····-·· 15
Cash receipts and disbursements.................................,..............-...................... 38
Certificates of qualification-Withholding of.. .•.....•..........,.............-•·········-·· 24
Charity box disapproved .................................................•....- ............ -................ 28
Charters-Report of Committee ...................................................................... 236
Chinese Bible presented., .................................................................................... _ 8
Clandestine Masonry-Report of Committee .................................................. 231
Coalinga High School-Comer stone laid.... ~ ..........:........................ :............. 18
Coleman, George P.-Visitor ............................................................................ 8
Colusa Lodge-Duplicate charter issued.....•........, ....... -.................................. 32

392

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Committees of Grand Lodge-List of .............................................................. 281
Conference of Grand Masters............... •··~························:................................. 19
Consolidation of Lodges ........................................................................................ 244
Constitution Day-Comments by Grand Master..........................................,. 23
Report of Committee........................................;.........:..:........ :....................; 230
Constit~tional amendments-Section 97, subdivision 5 (adopted) .... 157, 241
Sec. 100 (lost) ................................................................................................ 156
Sec. 152 (adopted) .................... :... :.........................................................:~, 241
Sec. 202 (adopted) .... ;................ :........ ,..............., ........, ...•.·.......... ,; ..:....... 156; 241
Sec. 263 (adopted) :.................................................................:...............:156; 242
To go over one year ...................................................................................... 238
Correspondence-Report of Committee ....... :.............................................. .'... 318
Credentials-Report of Committee .......... ;........................: ................................ 250

..

D
Decisions of Grand Master..................................................................................
bevotion'l-1 service ..................................................................................................
Digest-Sales of ....................................................................................................
Distinguished visitors ..........................................................................................
Dos Palos Lodge constituted ............................................................................

26
8
33
8
18

E
Educator Lodge-Consolidation with Golden City Lodge ...................... 32, 244
Employment Bureaus--Grand Master's comments ..................................... 17
Prop?sed publicity ........................................................................................ 246
Report of Finance Committee .................................................................. 221
Endowment Board-Grand Master's indor:iement........................................ 22
Report of Board,............... ::........................... ~ ............................. ;................. 118
Report of Finance Committee ...................................................................... 219
Eulogy-By Reynold E. l31illht........ ., ..•......,. ..................................... :............... 195
Extinct Lodges-List of ...................,.................................................................. 296

F
Fee for dispensation-Repeal of.........................~ ................- ............................ 241
Fifty-year buttons-Eligibility for .................................................................... 29
Number issued ................................................................................................ 33
Finances-Grand Master's comments on .......... :............................................ :.. 14
Finance Committee-Reports of (see Reports of Committees) ................ 217
Financing building projects-Report of Committee.................... :......':........ 151
Foreig·n Grand Lodges-List of recognized ...................................... :............. 307
Funds of Grand Lodge .................................................... ,...... :...............:.............. 41

G
Golden City Lodge-Consolidation with Educator Lodge ...................... 32, 244
Grand Lecturer-Annual report of ....••..•...•.......................,., .............c............. 44
Condition of Lodges .............. ,............. ...................................................... 47
Retirement of Inspectors ............................................... ,............................ 46

393
Page

Ritual Committee ········································-··········································· .. ··· 46
Traveling expenses of Inspectors....- ............... _....................................... 44
Tribute to deceased Inspectors .................................................................. 46
Grand Master's Annual Message ..................:................................................... 13
Barstow Lodge institution .......................................................................... 17
Certificates of qualification ........................................................................ 24
Corner stones laid ....'.,•....................:..:.....•..•1." ......................... , ..................11, 18
Decisions ..........:............. ~~---.--·.,... ........... ;.. ................."i.'::...:...... .i..... ~ ..........................................:26~ 244
.Annual elections in November............................................................ 28
Ballot-Possible mistake ...................................................................... 29
Charity box ............................................................................................ 28
Dispensations issued ............................................................................ 18
Dos Palos Lodge constituted ............................................................ 18
Duty of Junior Warden .................................................................. 26
Fifty-year buttons, eligibility.............................................................. 29
Fees in ten-mile limit ........................................................................ 27
Home fees on restoration ................................................................ 29
Physical qualifications ........ :...... ,.......................................................... 29
Stenographer-who competent ........................................................., 27
Endowment Fund .......................................................................................... 22
Employment Bureaus ................................................................................ 17
Finances .................................................. ~........................................................ 14
Grand Master's Conference ........................................................................ 19
Hawaiian Islands ...... :................................................................................... 16
District Officers' Meetings ...................................................................... 14
Information to other organizations ........................................................ 25
Inspectors ...................................................................................................... 21
Interjurisdictional visits .............................................................................. 19
Life Membership funds .............................................................................. 24
Lodge of Research ............................................................................:..... ,... 20
Masonic advertising ............................................ :....................................... 25
Masonic education ........................................................................ :............... 21
Masonic history .............................................................................................. 21
~. '(
Masonic Homes .................................................................................. u.............. 22
Masonic interest ................................................;; .•.........••... ,............. ;.,:_....
1'5
Masonic magazines .................................................................................... 26
Masonic meetings ........................................................................................ 15
Militant Masonry ........................................................................................ 20
Necrology ........................................................................................................ 13
Patriotic program .......................................................................................... 23
Physical qualifications .................................................................................. 15
Recommendations .......................................................................................... 24
Relief ......................................................................................................... _..... 24
St. John's Day breakfasts ..................................................................... :······ 17
Special communicatio.ns •......... ,................................................................... 17
Public Schools Week .................................................................................. 22
1t1. ...'.., •

394

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Suspensions ······'····························································································· 13
Special Taxation. Committee .................................................................... 22
University Club Houses ····························-················································ 23
Grand. Master-Portrait ordered......•.•............ _...........~.......•..•............•..•........•. 223
Grand Master--Report of Committee on Message .................'..................... 49
Grand Master-Traveling expenses.......................·-·································•········ 222
Grand Secretary-Annual Report ....·-··--··············--······-··-········..··········-~·- 31
Barstow Lodge-Dispensation issued.......,.....................:.......................... 31
Consolidation of Lodges ··················-························································ 32
Death of Frank G. flobbs., ..............:..........•_.._....._••.•.•~........-,-............... 31
Digest-Sale of .............................................................................................. 33
Dispensations issued .................................................................................... 35
Duplicate charters issued ............................................................................ 32
Fifty-year buttons issued ............................................................,.-............ 33
Life Membership resolutions approved .................................................. 35
Membership ...................................................:................................................ 31
New Lodges ...............................................,·-··-···-···················--·- ················ 32
Redwood Empire Lodge-Dispensation issued .................................. 32
Receipts and disbursements ...................................................................... 38
Report of Auditors ........................................................................·-··--····- 37
Report of Committee on Report ···•···········-··············"···--·········'···--··········· SO
Representatives appointed ······-·································································· 32
Trial records .................................................................................................. 35
Trona Lodge-Dispensation issued............................................................ 32
Grand Treasurer-Annual Report.. ..................- ................:..........,.................... 41
Green, Charles E .-Death of.........:...........~.;••,.-...-·.............,............................... 46
Grievances-Reports of Committee................ ~····--····································•····· 176

H
Harper, Harry A.-Death of.......;- .............................:..•..•.•~-···...............,........ 46
Hawaiian Islands-Grand Master's visit to.....................:,............................. 16
Henderson, Orrin S.-Death of.•........•...'................................................._.,,.,13, 182
History Committee-Annual Report ......•........·-··················-·······•········- ·········· 159
Walter Wilcox, introduced.......................................................................... 162
Hobbs, Frank G.-Death of..,_.~......................................,........................-1-3, 31, 184
Home fees-After restoration........................................•...- .......... ~.......... .......... 29
Homes, Masonic-See Masonic Homes.

I
Information to other organizations.................................................................... 25
Inspectors-Withholding of certificates of qualification....'.:..................24, 238
Grand Master's comments.................................................................;.......... 21
List of..........................,...................,..........................,... ~
~ ~ .:~... 304
Reimbursement for ........................................................................................ 225
Traveling expenses ........................................................................................ 44
Tribute to deceased...................................................i:..............................._.. 46
h

• ••

.

. . . . . .... ... - . , .

.

. . . . . .. . ..

. ...........

. . .. .. . . .

• •

••

395

Page

J

Jensen, Manley C.-Visitor.................................................................................. 8
Jurisprudence Committee-Reports of......................................,..............;........ 244

K
Kahului, Corner stone laid.....................................................................~............... 18
Kelley, Lawrence C-Committee on Segregation.......................................... 30
Kergan, Wesley W.-Retirement of, as Inspector........................................ 46
Keystone Lodge-Duplicate charter issued.................................................... 32

L
Life Membership Funds-Investments 0£............................................?4, 239, 240
Resolutions approved .................................................................................... 35
List of Co'mmittees of Grand Lodge...........................................·-···················· 281
List of Extinct Lodges..................:..................,........•...........••... -.~ ......................... 296
List of Inspectors...............:..............................- .............................................._.._ 304
List of Lodges..., ..,.......,....,•.:..~ ....•...:..,..:...... _....,......,.........:········:,......•.....•., ..~6, 310
Lodge of Research-Grand Master's comments............................................., 21
Lynwood Masonic Hall-Corner stone laid.............................,...................... 17
Dedication of...~········-;············-········'-·······················:.,......._.,.;........................ 18

M
Magazines, Masonic.............................................,..................................'................ 25
Mallachowitz, C. E.-Resolution to amend section 100...............................: 156
Masonic Education-Grand Master's comments............................................ 21
Report of Committee..................................,.....................................·-········· 155
Report of Finance Committee on....- ....:...............••...•................................ 218
Masonic Homes-Annual report ........................................................................ 57
Christmas entertainment ..........................................................,................... 59
I

•

Labor by residents.................•.·--····························································-····· 58
Responsibility of Lodges....- ....:..·-········-····································.-·······•·····- 57
Report of Auditors ···············'········································································ 59
Report of Finance C01nmittee.................,..............;.........................•..........•. 220
Scholarships ············································-··································-·······- ········· 58
Covina-Admissions in the year.................................................................. 116
A wards for good citizenship................................................................ 98
Christmas donations········-······--·····--·····················----·························· 109
Christmas fund .............................._.....- ..........,.•..•.•.•.- ......,.,................... 98
Community contacts.............................................................................. 99
Departures in the year·············--···········--···················-···········-········-- 117
Donations ······························-···-·········-············-····-·-·-···-···-·······-· 97
Entertainment at .............................................................,.................... 107
Health of children .......................................................·-·················-····· 98
List of residents ...............................:....---····-·,····__,.·-·--··-······· 113
Mode of life at.•.....'"'······················--·············"··.:.••,,...,..._ .......,............... 99

INDEX
396

397
P age

INDEX
Page

Our AlumnL............-···············-········································•···················· 100
Report of Field Worker....•.........................,.........•............................... 100
Report of Superintendent ..............................,........- .••...........,•.,......•.. 97
Scholarship loan fund............................................................................ 98
Summer camp ..........................••••..............•....... _......,.......... :·················· 99
Visitations to.......0•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •••••••• ••••••••••- ...... ... ............. . ........... 102
Decoto-Admissions in the year ..............................•................................. 95
Departures in the year .......................,..........•..................,.................... 92
Died in the year ...................................................................................... 96
Donations to ............................................................................................ 82
List of residents ........................•...............................•..........................:.. 88
Report of Superintendent .................................................................... 77
Visitations to...........................•................. _......•........................•....,......... 79
Endowment Board-Report of.....................
118
Grand Master's comments........................·-················································· 22
Masonic Publications-Report of Policy Commit~ee ..................:···:····--··--··· 243
Masonic History-Report of Finance ~ommittee..:...................:...... ~ ............ 218
Masonic Temple Association-Report of-.........y,•••; ••••••••••••••••••••:;•••••••••••••••••• 250
Stock-Sale of......·-·-·-·········::............._,............••.,.....,... _,, .......:.;...,.............:· 229
Membership in the jurisdiction............................................................................ 31
Militant Masonry-Grand Master's comments .........!...................................... 20
Report of Policy Com~ittee on._._............................................................ 244
Morton, Oakley K.-Resolution to amend section 97.................................... 157
Modoc Lava Beds-Meeting at .. ,.. c.................................................................... 15
y . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ •••••••••••• : •••••••• : .

N
Necrology-Grand Master's tribute ·············'""···············:···········..····················· 13
Report of Committee ........................................................•........................... 181
Nevada-Visit to by Grand Master.................................................................... 19

0 .
Offi<:ers' meetings-Grand Master's comments....................,..,...................... 14
Oliver, Clarence H.-Death of..,.........................:..•.•- •..•..•.,..¥-·............~·:·"·"'" 184
Oration-Annual ..............,...................................................................................... 51

R
Redwood Empire Lodge-Charter granted............................................ _......_, 237
Dispensation for ........;......:...•...•....••..••.~--i............................; ••
""'l), 32
Reeves, Charles-Committee on segregation .................................................. 30
Relief for Swiss refugeea............................ ~..................................................,••24; 422
Relief-Who may apply for................................................:.................- .............. 242
Reports of Committees-On Accounti..........................................- .................. 176
Activities .......................................................................................................... 237
Building projects.•...~................................... ~.........,........•......-'-··'-'··-············.. 151
By-Laws .......................................................................................................... 175
Charters ...................'........................................................................................ 236
Clandesti~e Masonry................................................................._................... 231
Constitution Day....................................................................................:....... 230
Correspondence ........................-····--·····..--·-···············;..............n ...,221, 318
Credenti-als ...................................................................................................... 250
Finance ................................................................................- .......................... 217
Audit of accounts.................................................................................... 217
Budget for 1941 ...................................................................................... 228
Correspondence Committee... _.................:........................................... 221
Employment Service----·····--·····--··---~·-····...~...................._...... 221
Endowment Boarcl........:................·-········-···-·····'·-············"····":'"··'· 219
Grand Lod'ge Week Activities ............................................................ 217
Grand Master expenses.................................................................., ....... 222
Masonic Education ................................................................................ 218
Masonic History .................................................................................... 218
Masonic Homes .................................................................................:.... 220
Pay of ~nspectors ..............:.............:.......................................:.....••..•••... 225
Pay of members ...................................................................................... 226
Per capita tax ...................................................................................,....•. 227
Portrait of Grand Master Ogden...........c.........; ........, ......... ~·
223
. Portraits of Grand Mas.ters..........................................................:....... 223
Reimbursement Boards of Relief........................................................ 220
Reimbursement to John Stewart Ro11.............................................. 224
Reports of Grand Treasurer and Secretary...................................... 221
Salaries .................................................................................................... 226
Swiss Relief.................,...................................................- ..............
226
Temple Stock-Sale of..............,.;.....................M.. ••A•·•.;.~........~.-...1••••• 229
Trona Lodge-Dues remitted............................................................- 226
U. C. Club Houses............................................................:.................:... 219
Unpaid dues......... _......................................................:............................ 223
· Unpaid loans ............................................................................................ 223
Grievances ......................................................................................................... 176
Jurisprudence-Consolidation of Lodges,.,........................................,•..... 244
Decisions of Grand Master............................................................:..... 244
Physical qualifications,.....................................................................:...... 245
Ten-mile limit .......................................................................................... 245
M . . . . . . . . . . . .. .

M ..

.........

¥ .......

p
Past Grand Officers-List of .............................................................................. 299
Pay of Members-Report of Committee .................................................•.......: 216
Report of Finance Committee...................................................................... 226
Peterson, E. C.-Visitor........................................................................................ 8
Pettus, Wm. B.-Grand Chaplain pro tem.•...................................................... 157
· Presents Bible....................•.........: ..:.........,........ _............'.............._....,........... 8
Physical qualifications ......:..........•.....,........·................'....~.........................:·.15, 29, 245
Public Schools Week-Comments of Grand Master...................................... 22
Report of Committee·················'··········"'····'···········'·········..·························· 145

398

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Masonic Education ....................................................................:·-················ 155
Masonic History......................................._..................................................... 159
Masonic Temple Association ········-········································"···'·······•-···· 250
Necrology ·············································'-·-·················-······;··························- 181
Pay of members ··············································-···········'-····:............................ 216
Policy and General Purposes..........,........................, .......•...........•............~ ... 238
Affiliation-Fee for··························-···················································· 242
Amendments to go over one year...................................................... 238
Authority of Inspectors to withhold certificates.............................. 238
Duties of Secretaries..............·-·-·················-····································-· 241
Fee for dispensation.-......................................:..................,..............•.... 241
Life membership funds-Investment of.........•.,........•..........•.......•.,•. 239
Masonic publications .•............................ _:.........·........•........................... 243
Militant Masonry ................................................................................. 244
A.

Notice of membership.................·-····-·······--·····················~·-················· 239
Relief-Who may apply for .......·-········-········'··································· 242
Roster of members to be reported.. _.......................:..............,........... 242
Taxation Committee......................:.............................;...•..........;.......... 249
War relief....·- ········-················.-···················-········-·:•....;_....:................. 242
Research Lodges .................................:................................- ........................ 157
Returns ···············•··········································-·································-············· 163
Segregation -································•····•···:..:..~...:...,!••.,.•_...•1.!•••••:•• _..................;. 49
Report of-Board of Control..............•...................................................•........... 201
Endowment Board........'...................................................................,..,........... 118
Grand Lecturer..........................................................,..................................... 44
Grand Secretary.............................................................................................. 31
Grand Treasurer.............................................................................................. 41
Grievance Committee-Trial records........................................................ 35
Masonic Homes ...............,.............................................................................. 57
Public Schools Week.................... ~ ............-·•·······:...........:............................ 145
Research Lodges ............................................................................................ 157
Taxation Committee .............................................,. ........................................ 246
U . C. Berkeley Club House;.................•..•....•·········- ························:........... 215
U. C., Los Angeles Club House......................................- ........:................. 214
Resolutions presented.............................................................. 156, 209, 240, 241, 246
Representatives appointed.................................................................................... 32
Returns of Lodges-Report of Committee...................................................... 163
Ross, John Stewart-Reimbursement for ........................................................ 224

s
Salaries-Report of Finance Committee...........................,................................ 226
Seymour, Kent J. C.-Retirement as Inspector.............................................. 46
Shepherd, Chas. A.-Laid corner stone............................................................ 18
Sherman, William A.-Death of................- .......:...:....•..- •..:-......,.....•....•.•..... 13', 182

Secretaries-Duties of.......·-····-······················-·······--········-"·······'"·~·-············241, 242
·Smith, Frank M.-Dedicated Lynwood Halt.....................................-........... 18

399
Page
.Social Security Tax-Grand Master's comments.......................................... 22
Report of Committee....................................·-··············································;· 246.
Stewart, Wilbert }.-Death of.....................................:..........................-··-·-··· 46
Suspensions, Grand Master's reference to...................................................... 13
Swiss . Relief.......... _..............:..............._:•.. ········-··········-······--··················~·-·····226, 242

T
Tax per capita.........................- .....,......., ............ :.~ ....•......................,...................... 227
Taxatioq Committee-Report of ........................................................................ 246
Ten-mile limit-Decision of Grand Master....,................................................. 245
Fees m............................-........._.........-..,.~...........- ...,.-,.~.....-.............-.......... 27
Totman, Isaac C.-Death of................................................................................ 46
Traveling Bible-Dedicated --··•···································-······································9, 10
Trials--Duty of Junior Warden...............·-·'····················································26, 27
Records r~p·orted .........................."··············-····-············-········-··············35, 176
Stenographer-Who competent........·-······················································· 27
Trona Lodge-Dispensation for ..............- ........................................................18, 33
Dues remitted .................................................................................................. 226
Report of Charter Committee...................................................................... 236

·u
U. C. Berkeley Club House-Report of................................................ _............215
U. C. Club Houses-Grand Master's comments....................................;......... 23
List of Directors..........................................................................- .................. 285
· Report of Finance Committee on.....•..................•..................·-·················· 219
U. C. Los Angeles Club House-Report of....................................-·····-·-····· 214
Unfinished business ................................................................................................ 37
Unpaid dues-Report of Finance Committee....................................................223
Unpaid loans-Report of Finance Committee...:............................................ 223

v
Veterans' buttons issued..........................................................................~............. 33
Visitors present.............;...........................:.............•..............•.....•...:....................... 8

w
War relief.: ....................................................................................................:........... 242
Waste, William H.-Death of.....................:..- •..................•.•..............,...........13, 183
Wilcox, Walter-Introduced...................................................•..........- ................ 162
Wilson, Lloyd E.-Visit to Oregon........•................•.......:.....•.............. _............ 19
Wood, Leslie E.-Laid corner stones..........................................-.................... 18
Wurtele, A. H.-Grand Chaplain........................................................................ 8

Lloyd Earl Wilson
Grand Master 1940 - 1941

Lloyd Earl Wilson was born in Portland, Oregon, August 16, 1895. He
received his elementary education in Portland and graduated from the high
school in Salem, Oregon. He attended Drake University at Des Moines, Iowa,
leaving that institution at the outbreak of the first World War to enlist in the
service of his country. A sergeant in Company "C," 8th Field Signal Battalion,
4th Division, Regular Army, he served practically all of his eighteen months in
France with the 39th Infantry, 4th Division, participating in four major
offensive and one major defensive campaigns. Following the Armistice he
served in the Army of Occupation in Germany.
Our outgoing Grand Master had a very active business career following
his return from Europe. He was employed by the B. F. Goodrich Rubber
Company in San Francisco from November, 1919 to March, 1921, when he
was transferred to San Diego as Service Manager and Sales Representative.
In these capacities he worked for that Company until his resignation in 1922
to accept a position as Membership Secretary and Director of Promotion in the
Y. M. C. A. at San Francisco. Since 1928 he served the "Y" as Public Relations Director.
On September 7, 1933, our 74th Grand Master was happily married to
Elsie McElaney, whose pleasing personality and womanly attainments ideally
equip her as the marital companion of one who has dedicated his life to the
service of his fellow-man. This marriage has been blessed by a most delightful
daughter, Helen Janet, who is the pride and joy of the Wilson home.
He is an orator of distinction; has the courage of his convictions and
has always been a stanch and outstanding champion of good government
and civic righteousness. His popularity among the craft was abundantly attested
by his election as Grand Secretary at the last communication of Grand Lodge.
He brings to that office an experience and ability which vouchsafe for him
a long and successful career in that very important office in California
Masonry. He is a member of the San Francisco Rotary Club; The American
Legion; The San Francisco Advertising Club and various professional organizah:ms.
He has· the unique distinction of having received his Blue Lodge degrees
in three different Grand Jurisdictions. On August 27, 1917 he was initiated
in Pilot Lodge No. 240 of Lyons, Nebraska; on April 5, 1918, was examined
and passed by Excelsior Lodge No. 261, of Charlotte, North Carolina, and
011 May 5, 1920 was raised in Marin Lodge No. 191 at San Rafael, California.
At the organization of Ingleside Lodge No. 630 of San Francisco he
became a charter member and its first Senior Deacon. He is a Past Master
and still a member of that Lodge.

LLOYD EARL WILSON
Grand Master

1940

His unusual ability as a ritualist was recognized and rewarded in January
1931 by the appointment as Inspector of the 40th District. On November 1,
1934, he was appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer, which position he held until
October 14, 1938, when he was elected Junior Grand Warden. On October 13,
1939, he was elected Deputy Grand Master and was elevated to the Grand
Oriental chair on October 11, 1940.

~ranb lLobge of (!California
I, LLOYD E. W1LSON, Grand Secretary of the M:.W:.Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted l\fasons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby certify that
the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of
that body at its ninety-second Annual Communication, commenced at the city of
San Francisco, on Tuesday, the 14th day of October, A. L. 5941, and terminated
on Friday the 17th day of October, A. L. 5941.

Jn ~estimonp •bereof
I have hereunto appended my of·
ficial signature and have affixed the
seal of the Grand Lodge of the
jurisdiction of

California, at the

office of the Grand Secretary, this
thirtieth day of October, in the
year of Light, five thousand nme
hundred and forty-one.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE

•

jfree anl:r ~cceptel:r ~asons·
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Ninety-second Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 14, A. D. 1941, A. L. 5941
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 17, A. D. 1941, A. L. 5941

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, Printer, 447 Sansome Street
1941

GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb masons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

NINETY-SECOND ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its ninetysecond Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, Van Ness
Avenue and Oak Street, San Francisco, on Tuesday, October 14,
A. L. 5941, at 10 :00 o'clock A. M.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:

Officers of Grand Lodge
M:". w.·. LLOYD E. WILSON ....................................................................... Grand Master
R.". W.". FRANK M. SMITH ...................................................... Deputy Grand Master
R.". w.·. LESLIE E. WooD ........................................................•...Senior Grand Warden
R.". W:. CLAUDE H. MoRRISON .................................................lunior Grand Warden
V. ·. W. ·.LEON 0. WHITSELL ........ :..................................................... Grami Secretary
V. ·. W. ·.CHESTER H. WARLOW ..........•••.........••.•..•.....•......................... Grand Lecturer
v.·. Rev. MORRIS GoLDSTEIN .................•..........•.....••..•.••....••....•..•. _ .....•. Gtand Chaplain
w.·. HENRY c. CLAUSEN .................•............................••...............•.• Grand Orator
w.·. HENRY D. 0LIPHANT:......................................,Assistant Grand Secretary
w.·. }AMES K. 'FISK ........................... _ .......................••....•.....•.....•. Grand Marshal
w.·. ALEX. D. POTTS ......•.....••....•.•....•........•...•..................Grand Standard Bearer
w.·. HORACE w. RICE.......................................................... Grand Sword Bearer
w.·. THOMAS EnwARDS .....................................•.................... Grand Bible Bearer
w.·. HARRY F. WHITE........................................................Senior Grand Deacon
w.·. ARTHUR PAULSEN ...........•..........•.....•........•.................. ./unior Grand Deacon
w.·. CHARLES E. SoNES .............................. ,.•................... Senior Grand Steward
W. ·.WILSON 0. WADE ..•...................•.......................•...... .J11nior Grand Steward
w.·. ALVIN w. WENDT...................................................•.......... Grand P11rmivant
w.·. CHARLES E. ANDERSON ..........................................•... ·-·······Grand Organist
w.·. RALPH K. MARSHALL.........................................................•........ Grand Tiler

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Masters

Has any generation of man been called upon to make sense of a world
as chaotic as that which you and I now must face? Would that Almighty
God. might speak to you and to me-right here and now.
Is this a vain hope? In pronouncing this plea are we as naive as a
little English girl who is reported to have prayed as follows: "Please God,
take care of mummy and daddy and take care of Michael and Joan, and
take care of Uncle Arthur and, above all, 0 God, take care of yourself,
01 we shall all be sunk."
In all humility may I suggest: It has been revealed unto · us what the
Lord doth require-revealed in the Holy Bible which is given to us as
the rule and guide of our faith, yes, but revealed also and with painful
clarity by the affairs of the world which we are now witnessing.
Do you recall the words of the "Battle Hymn of the Republic"?
"Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord:
He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of
wrath are stored;
He hath loosed the fateful lightning of his terrible swift sword;
His truth is marching on."
Aias, the fateful lightning of his terrible swift sword has been loosed
upon the face of the earth. Alas, the vintage where the grapes of wrath are
stored is being trampled out. Mankind has sinned against the law of God.
Man has been cruel, vengeful, greedy, intolerant, self-centered. Man has
&corned and ridiculed such virtues as brotherly love, relief and truth. Man
has mocked at temperance, fortitude, prudence and justice. Therefore,
has come the day of judgment. For a time it seemed that man could successfully violate the laws of God. Judgment was slow in coming. However,
"the mills of the Gods grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small." If punishment be delayed it will come nonetheless. Every physician knows that a
person may be suffering from some ailment of which he is unaware, perhaps
for ten or twenty years before it will make itself known. He is continously
violating the laws of health but because the ultimate breakdown is delayed
he does not change his ways. And then suddenly his misfortune becomes
known to him. A dread disease is upon him; and there is no help. And then
he laments unto himself, "Would that I had known in sufficient time that
this would be my fate, then I would have observed the laws of health."
So it is with the moral conduct of man. With our own eyes we see today the
fulfillment of the words of Holy Writ: "The Lord shall judge the ends of
the earth." With our own eyes we behold the glory of the coming of the
Lord.
Who is there among us who can now doubt the retribution of God.
As there is a law of cause and effect in nature so there is a law of cause
and effect in the dealings of man. Dare we violate the law of gravity and
expect that we shall escape unpunished? Do we plant potatoes and expect
that strawberries will grow up instead? Do we eat toadstools and expect
to enjoy . good health? .Why then does foolish man think that he can
practice injustice and receive justice, that he can exercise hate and receive
love, that he can terrify and enslave and then enjoy peace? Verily, my
brethren, "The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth." Let him who has
ears hear this. Let him who has eyes see this. It is the fundamental
truth of our very existence.
How sublime then are the teachings of our fraternity! If we plant
the seeds of brotherly love we know for a certainty that we shall reap a
harvest of brotherly love. If we pattern our every word and deed to conform with the architectural blueprints set forth by our fraternity, we know

M:. w:. DANA R. WELLER
M:. w:. ]OHN D. MURPHEY
M.". W.". WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY

M:. w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M:. w:. SAMUELE. BURKE
M:. w:. ARTHUR s. CRITES
M:. w:. WILL H. FISCHER
M:. w:. CHAS. M. WO!.LENBERG
M:. W:. ]OHN STEWART Ross

M:. w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M:. w:. FRANK W. MIXTER
M:. w:. }AMES B. GIST
M:. w:. RANDOLPH v. WHITING
M:. W:. ROLLIE W. MII.LER
M:. w:. }AMES T. FRASER
M:. w:. LEON 0. WHITSELL
M:. w:. WM. B. OGDEN

And 1503 officers and representatives from 574 chartered
Lodges and delegates from one Lodge U. D.
The Grand Master filled the vacant place of Grand Treasurer
by the following appointment: Russell C. Horstmann.
And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
The flag of our country was presented and placed m the
East.
Distinguished Visitors

M:. w:. Toler R. White, Grand Master of Masons of Arizona, was
received with Grand Honors, and appropriately welcomed by the Grand
Master, and escorted to a seat in the East.
Devotional Services
A very interesting and uplifting devotional service was then
rendered by the Grand Chaplain.
My brethren of Grand Lodge:
We have assembled in the name of the Great Architect of the Universe
whose blessing we have invoked. In the opening prayer we united in uttering
a desire to proceed in all our doings in conformity with the demands of
our Supreme Grand Master. It is fitting and proper that we have done so
for our ancient order of Free and Accepted Masons derives its inspiratio~
and sustenance from a contemplation of divinity. If we could but know
God and what God requires of us we could live the more truly as Masons.
The problem in life is to ascertain for our individual sdves a knowledge
of the will of God. No 01~e may speak with finality upon this subject; it
baffles hum;in comprehension. And yet we must know. We seek to know.
What might we say, what might we plan, what might we do to raise the
le.vel of our Masonry to reflect the order and beauty of the divine throne?
When we convene in Grand Lodge it is no ordinary gathering. We
come here to meditate deeply, to expand the horizon of our vision to intensify our zeal. We must come forth from these sessions with r~newed
vigor and refreshed ardor. How shall we discover that greater vision and
vigor? Would that God might speak to our souls and instruct us in our
assigned duties.
My brethren, if there ever was a time in the history of mankind when
men must derive strength and wisdom for worthy living, is it not now?

409

'

410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for a certainty that there will come to us the divine reward-we know this
with the certainty that we know that there is a law of cause and effect.
Here in this knowledge, here we find renewed incentive to live our lives
as Masons; here we find determination that the din of confusion which
surrounds us on every side will not be permitted to swerve us from the
ideals which we have learned in our degrees of Masonry.
Brethren of Grand Lodge, will you proceed with me to one further
thought? May I now emphasize with the greatest conviction that I can
command that we are not here dealing with the ideals of Masonry in the
abstract but rather with the day-to-day performance of those ideals. Let
us not talk of justice, let us be just; let us not talk of tolerance, let us be
tolerant; let us not talk of charity, "let us be charitable; let us not talk of
truth, let us be truthful; let us not talk of temperance, let us be temperate;
let us not talk of prudence, let us be prudent, let us not talk of fortitude,
let us display fortitude. And, my brethren, in no day and age were there
so many opportunities available at hand to do these things, to show mercy
and brotherly love and justice. And in so doing let each one say to himself:
"I do these things because I am a Mason; I am living my Masonry; I am
doing that which the Lord doth require of me."
The high resolve thus to live cannot be postponed to a future date.
It must be made here and now. Who knows how long the opportunity will
be ours? A year hence it may be too late. Life itself is so tragically brief.
How many years remain for any of us. Five years? Ten years? Twenty
years? Consider if you will the wisdom contained within these words
of verse:
"Life is like a journey
On a railroad train,
With a pair of travelers
Seated at each pane.
I might sit beside you,
Never know you,
Or I might sit elsewhere,
All the journey through.
But, if fate should mark me
Seated at your side,
Let's be pleasant travelers
It's so short a ride."
In conclusion may I refer to an experience which came to me during
this past vacation period. It was my pleasure to spend a few days in
Yosemite National Park, world famous for its majestic setting. As do many
of the visitors to Yosemite, I traveled to the elevation above the park
known as Glacier Point, whence descends the Firefall. I walked to the
edge of the cliff and looked down. The people in the valley below looked
like so many insects, the automobiles like toys, the swimming pool like a
green cardboard. Looking down, terror seized me. I tightened my grip on
the handrail. I felt unsafe in my surroundings. Then I returned to the
floor of the valley and looked up to Glacier Point where I had· been. It
was not at all frightening to look up. The cliffs that surrounded me seemed
to embrace me and my fellow-visitors to the valley in a vast bond of nature
that m:ade us kin. I felt uplifted and my eyes wandered from the tops
of the cliffs to the heavens above. Then there flashed into my consciousness
the realization that when we look down upon life, fellow man is but an
insect and life is terrifying. But when we look up, as we do in Masonry,
up to the heights, the cliffs, the sky of blue, and the Creator of them all,
then life is indeed comforting, brotherly a11d ~ublime.

Greetings
Telegrams and letters were received from the following
and read:

411

Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling; Past Grand Master
George L. Jones; George Russell, Grand Master of Masons in
Nevada; E. C. Peterson, P . G. M., and Grand Secretary of
Nevada; Ezra Wilson, Past Grand Master of Oregon; C. A.
Carlson, Jr., Past Grand Master of Nevada; and the Masonic Club
Council of the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley.

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

ner. I have had occasion to call on them for many kinds of special service
during the year and the result has been not only heartening but effective.
The work of some of our committees, such as Public Schools Week, Constitution Observance, and Endowment, produces a visible result for all to
see, and while I especially commend the work of these committees, I desire
also to call attention to the very fine work of the other committees of Grand
Lodge, which goes along quietly and without visible res ults bulking very
large.
The membership situation throughout the jurisdiction is somewhat
improved over last year. \Vhile it is true that we still show a loss, it is
much smaller than in 1940. We show an increase in the number of initiations, passings and raisings. There is also a slight increase ~ the number
of reinstatements and a decrease in the number of losses due to suspensions.
The total net loss is accounted for by a smaller number of affiliations
and an increased number of deaths. I would say that on the whole the
membership situation is satisfactory, but I would suggest that we give
increased attention to the matter of restorations, to the prevention of suspensions for non-payment of dues, and within the bounds of propriety, to
securing affiliations. •
I can report from personal knowledge that the homes at Decoto and
Covina are well-conducted and well-administered. The Board of Trustees
has met in separate and in joint sessions throughout the year and has given
literally hundreds of hours to the problems presented to them. The welfare
and care of the residents of the Homes is the first consideration of the
board. I feel that the soundest economy consistent with the welfare of the
residents is practiced and that everything is being done for those under
our care which you desire to have done.
The situation in our Masonic clubhouses at Berkeley and at Los Angeles
is good, but I cannot bring myself to say that it is excellent. The trustees
in both cases have labored earnestly, and I believe intelligently, in the areas
in which they have operated, but I feel that there are difficulties in the way
oi the successful operation of these clubhouses.
I do not feel that we are getting enough student participation in the
clubhouses, and I do not feel that we are "getting our money's worth." I
do not belong to that group who feel that if even a few students are being
provided with an outlet for sound social activity that it is worth all we are
putting into it.
I have caused to be submitted to me the records of student participation in both clubhouses and while the reports ·are good, I say again that
they are not in my mind what they ought to be. I frankly think this is due in
a major part to our organizational set-up. The Board of Trustees, as now
set up, represent Grand Lodge largely in a legal fashion. They are the
trustees of the property and it is right that they should be. They are the
older group of men and again it is right that they should be, for in the
final analysis they are responsible for these properties and for the good
name of Grand Lodge in their operation. It is not to be expected that these
trustees, most of them removed by many decades from college life, 'will be
very close to student activity. It is not to be expected that they will have
very close touch with student life o r know from actual contact with the
university, what s tudents are thinking and doing. This cannot reasonably
be supposed to be their province. I t is equally unreasonable, I think, to
expect that students can be given a free hand to run the clubhouses to suit
themselves, and particularly to develop and promote whatever programs
they may desire. There needs to be both control and stimulation in this
connection.

The Grand Master then delivered his annual message, during
which he presented the Wm. B. Pettus Bible to Brother Harold
Frederick Klinger, Master of Fidelity Lodge No. 120, for that
Lodge in recognition of its outstanding charitable achievements
during the past year and Brother Klinger responded with appropriate expressions of appreciation.
Brethre;t uf the Grand Lodge:

From the earliest days of this Grand Lodge it has been the custom
as well as the duty of the Grand Master, "to present at each Annual Communication, a written message, therein setting forth all his official acts
during the year, exhibiting the general condition of Masonry within the
jurisdiction, and recommending such legislation as he may deem necessary
or expedient for the welfare of the craft." This serves not only to inform
the craft of the various functions which the Grand Master has performed,
but also serves to remind the Grand Master that his term of service in that
office is about over.
In pr11senting this message I am aware that I would not have had the
opportunity to serve had it not been for my fellow members of this Grand
Lodge, and that if I have served well in any respect it has been possible only
because of the extraordinary cooperation w hich I have had from all of you.
May I preface any final recording of my actions by saying that I have
visited every district in the jurisdiction; that I have attended a great many
special anniversary observances; that I have attended all of the official
breakfasts held by the Relief and Employment Boards of the State; and
that I have been privileged to be present at a great number and a great
variety of other official and semi-official gatherings.
It has been for me a very busy a nd active year, and a very pleasant
and profitable one. If I have in any way served the craft well it is no more
than the Masons of this jurisdiction are entitled to, and I ca n but say thank
you for the opportunity afforded me to serve.
State of the Fraternity
am pleased to report that in my judgment the state of the fraternity
in this jurisdiction is excellent. During the year I have met and talked with
many thousands of Masons. I find th em to be sincere, earnest, seriousminded m en w ho are concerned both about the affairs of Masonry, and the
affairs of the nation. I am proud of the men who make up the bulk of the
membership in this jurisdiction, and I am likewise proud of the officers of
our Lodges.
With a few exceptions the financial plans of the Lodges are sound,
and in the cases which are the exception, the officers and the Inspectors
are giving the matter serious attention.
While there are still too many Masonic temples in the jurisdiction
which are not on sound financial ground, I am glad to report that they are
becoming fewer in number each year, due to the work of the Committee
on Financing Building Projects, and that the new temples which are being
erected are being built upon sound financial structures, again largely due
to the work of this excellent committee.
The committee service of Grand Lodge has been excellent throughout
the year. All of our committees have functioned in a very satisfactory man-

413

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

My suggestion would be that the trustees continue to serve in the capacities in which they now serve, but that they give serious consideration
to the formation of an intermediate body between them and the students,
which shall act as the program and promotion stimulating body. I picture
this as being a group of young Masons, university graduates living near
the universities, and between the ages of 25 and 35 years. I suggest these
ages because they should be long enough out of university to have established themselves somewhat and to have gotten away from the purely undergraduate activities, and yet young enough to still keep some hand in
student activities, to know something of the undergraduate life of the university and of the things which students will promote and participate in.
This intermediate board of advisors would be responsible to the Board of
Trustees and would be charged with all of their functions other than the
legal functions now performed by the Board of Trustees. This intermediate board should also devise ways and means of getting the information
concerning the clubhouses to the students in a much more direct method
than has been developed so far.
This does not require any legislation, because the trustees already have
the power to do it if they desire and I recommend that they give serious
consideration to this matter during the coming year.
Necrology
Death has struck hard and often in our ranks since our last communication. I doubt if there has been any previous year when so many men
who have served so well and so long have been taken from us during such
a brief span.
It is not my intention to eulogize any of those who have gone, for that
will be done under the direction of the Committee on Necrology, by others
more competent than I. I do, however, wish to record the names of a few
outstanding members at this time in order that you may see something of
the great loss which we have suffered. ·
The greatest single blow, and one which every Grand Master has prayed
might not come during his term of office, fell on March 31, 1941, when our
well-beloved Grand Secretary, the Very Worshipful John Whicher, was
taken from us. His loss was to me not only the loss of a true personal
friend, but it was likewise the loss of what would have been to me, as Grand
Master, the most valuable aid which I could possibly have had during my
administration, for every man who has occupied the office of Grand Master
during the past thirty-two years would say without hesitancy that much
of the success of his administration was due to the able, friendly and farsighted counsel of John Whicher.
On April 2 I, with the assistance of nearly all of the Grand Lodge officers, opened Grand Lodge and conducted the funeral service for Brother
Whicher. On the day following the Very Worshipful Walter Leonard,
Grand Lecturer, passed away. This double blow, within the space of a few
days, seemed far more than should have been our lot, but the end was not
yet. We had previously suffered the loss of three of our fine Inspectors in
big, friendly Herbert Walker, the venerable Jacob Hughes and in the young
but extremely competent Harold W. Conklin. There now followed in most
rapid succession Thomas Anderson, third oldest Inspector in point of service in the Grand Lodge; and Foster G. Dyer, fourth oldest Inspector in
point of service and former Grand Lecturer. All of these men were close
personal friends of mine over a long period of years, and in every case where
it was possible to set aside my affairs or to rearrange my schedule, I conducted funeral services for them.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

415

Two other distinguished men have died. On February 6 Brother Frank
Hartman, for more than thirty years superintendent of the Masonic Home
at Decoto, passed away, and I conducted funeral services for him, assisted
by the members of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes. It was
not possible for me to be present at the funeral services for our Worshipful
Brother Heber Winder, who at the time of his death was chairman of our
Committee on Masonic Education.
There is always some compensation even for great loss, and this year
the compensating factor has been the instant response of so many Grand
Lodge officers and Past Grand Masters, as I have sought their advice and
counsel in solving the many problems which have arisen in consequence of
the death of these outstanding men and active Masons.
Appointments
It has been necessary to make a number of appointments during the
year, largely due to the death of incumbents. Three appointments are of
such importance that I feel that they should be recorded here. To the office
oi Grand Secretary I appointed Most Worshipful Leon 0. Whitsell, P . G. M.
He has done an extraordinarily fine job in this position and has been of
great assistance in all the business of the Grand Lodge office.
To succeed Walter Leonard, Grand Lecturer, I appointed Worshipful
Brother Chester H . Warlow, who had served as Assistant Grand Lecturer
since the inauguration of the present method of teaching the ritual. Brother
Warlow is exceedingly well qualified and has done a very fine job in this
office.
Brother Reynold E. Blight kindly consented to take the .chairmanship
of the Committee on Masonic Education to succeed Brother Heber Winder
and I feel quite certain that you will all agree with me that I could not hav~
selected a man better qualified than Brother Blight.
T am happy to say that outstanding and competent men were in every
case found to succeed the Inspectors who passed away and those who resigned, and the work of teaching the ritual and carrying on the other duties
of the Inspectors has gone on in excellent fashion in all of the districts.
Special Communications of Grand Lodge
On Saturday, November 2, 1940, I convened Grand Lodge for the purpose of constituting Redwood Empire Lodge No. 683 at Garberville.
On the same day Grand Lodge was convened at Barstow for the purpose of constituting Barstow Lodge No. 682. I requested Past Grand Master
William B. Ogden to act as Grand Master for this ceremony. •
I convened Grand Lodge in special communication on Wednesday
April 2, 1941, at the Masonic Temple, Van Ness Avenue and Oak Street'
San Francisco, for the sad duty of conducting the funeral ceremony for ou;
beloved Grand Secretary, Brother John \Vhicher.
On Friday, April 25, 1941, Grand Lodge was convened at Lancaster
for the purpose of laying the corner ~tone of the Masonic Temple at that
place. Being unable to attend I requested Brother William B. Ogden, Past
Grand Master, to act as Grand Master.
On Tuesday, May 27, 1941, Grand Lodge was convened at Venice,
at 8:00 o'clock P. M., for the purpose of dedicating the Masonic hall of
Triangle Lodge No. 548. At my request Frank M. Smith, Deputy Grand
Master, acted as Grand Master.
I convened Grand Lodge in special communication on Thursday, July
31, 1941, at the Masonic Temple, Van Ness Avenue and Oak Street, San

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Francisco, to conduct the funeral services of Brother Foster G. Dyer, Inspector of the 45th Masonic District.
On Saturday, September 20, 1941, I convened Grand Lodge for the
purpose of dedicating the Masonic hall of Lancaster Lodge No. 437, at
Lancaster.
On Thursday, September 25, 1941, I convened Grand Lodge for the
purpose of dedicating the Masonic hall of Guardian Lodge No. 596, at South
Gate.
Hawaiian Islands
In May and June I visited our Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands. I could
easily spend much time in speaking of the hospitality of our brethren in
the Islands, for certainly everything was done for the comfort and pleasure
of both Mrs. Wilson and myself. If all that has been previously said about
the hospitality of these Lodges were put together, it would still be an understatement.
I do want to pay tribute to the very fine type of Masonic work which
they are doing. The Lodges are strong and active and have attracted to
them most of the outstanding business and governmental leaders. They
are now in a period of great activity, due to the national emergency. They
have always been very gracious about performing a great variety of services for our Lodges and I suggest that during the emergency we make only
such requests of them as are r·easonable, and are of an emergency nature.
Philippine Islands
On October 10 I had the unique privilege of addressing our Masonic
brethren of the Philippine Islands by radio. A thousand Masons were assembled at a banquet in Manila in commemoration of the fortieth anniversary of the founding of Manila Lodge No. 1.
The Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands sprang from the Grand
Lodge of California and the Most Worshipful John McFie, Grand Master,
invited the Grand Master of California to address the assembled body.
In a brief address I congratulated that Lodge upon the success which
they have made and conveyed to them the good wishes of this Grand jurisdiction. In a brief response Grand Master McFie expressed their gratitude
for the continuing interest which we have had in their affairs and sent his
greetings to us in this Annual Communication.
Inter-jurisdictional Visitations
It was a matter of great regret to me that I did not get to v1s1t any
of our neighboring jurisdictions during the sessions of their Grand Lodge.
I had arranged to be present in Arizona and had accepted the kind invitation of the M. W . Grand Master of that Grand jurisdiction to address their
Grand Lodge. I was in Southern California en route to Arizona at the time
of the death of our Grand Secretary John Whicher, and hence was forced to
cancel that visitation. Under the circumstances it was not possible to send
a representative.
The Grand Lodge of Oregon, in which I had been so graciously received as Junior Grand Warden and again as Deputy Grand Master, opened
the same day on which I arrived in San Francisco from my visitation to
our Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands. The same was true of the Grand
Lodge of Nevada.
It did not seem wise to me to personally plan to go to these Grand
Lodge communications when some unforeseen delay might make it impossible, and I accordingly arranged to send representatives, insteai::I of
being present in person. The Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Orator,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

417

attended the Grand Lodge of Oregon, and I am informed by him received
all the courtesy which would have been accorded the Grand Master. I
designated the R. W . Leslie E . Wood, Senior Grand Warden, as my official representative to the Grand Lodge of Nevada, and upon my return
have learned from him that he had been received in that Grand Lodge
with the unique hospitality for which they have always been justly famous.
I am persuaded that these inter-jurisdictional visitations are of genuine
value and I greatly regret that I was denied the privilege of attending.
Grand Masters' Conference
In February I attended the Annual Conference of Grand Masters in
Washington, D. C. I was present at every session of the conference, and feel
that while it is a long way to travel for a three-day conference, the time is
well spent. The subjects discussed were pertinent, and in most cases the
presentation of the subject matter was excellent. There have been many matters concerning which I have had to correspond with other Grand Masters
during the year, and the fact that I had met them at Washington seemed
to make the solution of our problems much easier. I recommend attendance
at the conference for any Grand Master who can possibly take the time.
This Grand jurisdiction was honored in having its Grand Master as
chairman of the Committee on Time and Place of the next conference, and
also as chairman of the Committee for the Observance at Washington's
tomb on Washington's birthday.
In this latter capacity your Grand Master was invited to make the
address of the occasion, and while I should like to think that it might have
been because of some reputation of my own as a speaker, I know that it
was because, after the splendid address by P. G. M. Ogden on a similar
occasion last year, they just naturally assumed that every California Grand
Master must be a competent orator.
Due to the illness of our Grand Secretary we were not represented at
the Grand Secretaries' conference, which meets concurrently, but I feel
that whenever possible this Grand jurisdiction should be r epresented in that
conference as well.
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association
I attended the meeting of this association in Alexandria, Virginia, and
was impressed with the great progress which has been made, not only in
the building itself, but in the affairs of the association.
The final form, size and general furnishing of the Memorial seems now
to be finally set, and as a matter of fact it is well on the way to ultimate
completion. I do not believe that any great changes or additions are contemplated in the structure.
A most important . agreement has been reached with the old Lodge in
Alexandria whereby the George Washington relics are to be placed in the
Memorial in a room now under construction, which will be an exact replica
of the old Lodgeroom in which Washington presided as Master. This agreement assures not only the preservation of the relics from fire and theft,
but also assures their permanent maintenance.
This Grand jurisdiction has had a vital connection with this Memorial
from the beginning, for our own Past Grand Master Lawler was one of the
originators of the Memorial, if in fact the idea did not first come from him,
and we have had a member on the Board of Directors, I think, from the
very beginning. Your Grand Master was elected to the board for a threeyear term, succeeding our own P. G. M. Boynton, who resigned due to ill
health.

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

During these years the plans for the Memorial have been expanded
from time to time, and of necessity the per capita levy has likewise been
enlarged from time to time. On the basis of the original levy of $1.00 per
capita, this Grand Lodge has more than paid its quota, but on the per capita
levy of $1.70 per member adopted some years ago, we have paid approximately 75 per cent.
I am aware that this matter has been before Grand Lodge on previous
occasions and I do not at this time make any recommendation for an appropriation, but I would like to suggest that we do not entirely close our
minds to this matter because the time will come when the Memorial will be
completed and this Grand jurisdiction ought not to allow a relatively few
thousand dollars to forever keep it out of the honored list of those Grand
jurisdictions which have had a full participation in the completion of the
project. The Memorial will stand for hundreds and hundreds of years and
so likewise will the record of participation in its erection.
Pettus Bible
At the last communication of Grand Lodge Worshipful William B.
Pettus, Past Master of International Lodge, Peiping, China; Past District
Grand Warden, China; Massachusetts jurisdiction, presented to Grand
Lodge a copy of the Bible published entirely in the Chinese language, requesting that it be held each year by the Lodge which has rendered the
best service to Masonic charity, and it was accepted in that spirit.
Brother Pettus did not define the word "charity," but I assume that
he did not mean it in the sense of the giving of alms, but that he intended
that the Bible should go to the Lodge which displayed Masonic charity in
the sense of universal benevolence and universal brotherhood.
I have selected as the Lodge most entitled to this honor this year,
Fidelity Lodge No. 120 of San Francisco. This is one of the oldest Lodges
in the city and one which, across the years, has attracted to its membership
large numbers of outstanding citizens of the ] ewish faith. The particular
act of this Lodge which in my judgment merits the presentation of the
Chinese Bible to it, was the election by that Lodge of a Chinese applicant
for the degrees of Masonry. I have witnessed no better example of the
universality of Masonry this year than this one, which I honor today, and
I commend to all of you the witnessing tonight of the conferring of the
third degree of Masonry upon this Fellow Craft of Fidelity Lodge, when
the Pettus Bible is upon the altar.
National Emergency
There is already ample evidence that a period of increased activity in
the Lodges is going to result from the national emergency in which we
find ourselves.
·
The number of requests for emergency degrees has increased many
fold during the past six months. It should be borne in mind that when
these requests are presented to a Lodge through the Grand Lodge office,
the Grand Secretary merely certifies to the regularity of the request. The
decision rests with the Lodge as to whether or not they desire to confer
the degree by courtesy.
I personally feel that wherever we can do so we should confer the
degrees upon those applicants who have been elected in another jurisdiction and who, being in the armed forces of the United States, are not the
masters of their own time or place of residence. They are in no position
to make any choice, but are moved about by the orders of their commanding officers, and therefore I feel that they are entitled to any courtesy
which we can reasonably show them.

1

I

,

i

419

I think that we should, however, guard against being imposed upon
by those individuals not in the service of the armed forces who are legitimate
residents of the State of California or who expect to make their pei:manent
home here, but who decide to petition a Lodge in their own State and then
immediately come to California. They should come to California and wait
until they acquire the qualifications of residence and then petition a California Lodge in the same manner as any other resident.
I should like to issue a warning also against the too-ready acceptance of
applications and applicants during the emergency. During the last World
War there was a great influx of applications and petitions. I do not wish
to cast any discredit upon any of these applicants, but I do want to urge
the greatest care and discretion in the acceptance of applications, and likewise the greatest vigilance by investigating committees. I hope that no
Lodge will look upon the emergency as an <?PPOrtunity for increasing its
membership. I hope that no Lodge will carelessly accept applications or
carelessly investigate them after they are received. It should be borne in
mind that once a man becomes a member of a Lodge he remains a Mason
until his death or until he is otherwise removed from the fraternity, and
that the members of a Mason's family remain the charge of the Lodge and
of the fraternity long after his death. I cannot place too much emphasis
upon this warning to every Lodge in the jurisdiction to guard carefully
the outer door, and to make as certain as is humanly possible that only
good men and true are permitted to pass within.
In those cases where applicants elected in California are transferred to
some other part of the country and desire to have degrees conferred by
courtesy of another jurisdiction, I would like to remind the Lodges that
these courtesy requests must be transmitted through the Grand Lodge
office, receive the approval of the Grand Master if he so desires, and be
forwarded to the proper Grand Lodge by the Grand Secretary. It is not
a matter which originates and is carried through between and by the subordinate Lodges of the Grand jurisdictions.
Emergency Welfare Work
The problem of welfare work for Masons in the armed forces of the
United States in the present emergency is perhaps one of the most difficult
and persistent which we have had to face this year.
The activity of the welfare department of the Masonic Service Association in the United States has served to bring this problem to the front.
Upon the presumption that there are great numbers of Masons in the
armed forces, that association has developed a very extensive plan for
building Masonic service centers in cities adjacent to large concentration
of troops. The building plans roughly call for establishments similar to
those planned by the Government for the United Service Organizations.
The Masonic Service Association proposes to staff these buildings with
adequate personnel and to pay for the entire operation from funds received
solely from Masonic sources. Some of these centers are now in actual
operation in various parts of the country.
Much of this activity has been actuated by the feeling on the part of
some that Masonic organizations did nothing for Masons during the first
World War and that its failure in this respect resulted unfavorably to
the fraternity, both in the eyes of Masons who were not served, and in
the eyes of the public which criticized such failure. Whether or not any
failure to serve in such a capacity in the first World War was a mistake
is a matter for each individual to decide. I P.ersonally do not think that it
was a mistake.
Because of the plan outlined heretofore, the question of this welfare

420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

work has been brought to the Grand Master continuously throughout the
year. I have declined to give my consent to the operation of the Masonic
Service Association in Masonic service centers in California. I think you
are entitled to know why I have taken this position, and I therefore shall
go into the matter in some detail.

have no doubt that this Grand Lodge would, by its vote, have endorsed
such action on my part.
The second possibility which confronts us is that in one or two exceptional cases, where there may be concentrations of men, perhaps as
many as 80 000 in one place, and if there is established need for it, we may
need to op~n an office and employ one man whose business it would be
to operate an information center as well as a clearing house for such purely
Masonic services as might be brought to his attention.'
I do not believe that any legislation is necessary at this time to continue
what has been done or to provide for the second contingency if it should
arise, and I am therefore making no recommendation for legislation in this
respect.
I must report to you, for your information, that I have been in constant .touch with the Inspectors and with some of the officers of the
Lodges adjacent to these military posts, as well as with other competent
Masonic leaders, and I have tried to keep myself informed of what was
going on and of the needs, both of the men and of the Lodges. I say to
you, after almost a year of dealing with this problem, that I do not know
of a single case in which the Masonic need of any Mason was not met, nor
do I know of any Lodge which has found it necessary to curtail its planned
program for Masons in the armed forces because of a lack of funds.
I think I should give you the benefit of my judgment for what it may
be worth, as to the sort of emergency in which we find ourselves. I do not
claim to be the seventh son of a seventh son, nor the son of a prophet, but
I think that one need be neither of these to say, that judging from all the
signs and from such information as is available we are in for a long emergency and, in all likelihood, war. If this is true, it .be~ooves us to chart ?ur
course very carefully, to give the best of our th111k111g t? the develop1?g
of a policy for handling this welfare problem, and to consider the financial
implications of a more extensive program with great care before plunging
ourselves into a very extensive and expensive program, covering a long
period of years.
The essential things to be kept in mind in developing our policy are:
that this is a democratic army; that all men should be treated alike, preferably well; that Masons are, after all, American citizens first, with all of
its implications for loyalty and service, and Masons second; ~nd that ai:y
service to which they may be entitled because they are Masons 1s a Masonic
service and should be rendered by Masons in strictly Masonic surroundings,
and guided strictly and solely by the need of the person and the ability
of the responsible Masonic body in and under whose jurisdiction the Mason
may find himself.
As a good example of what can be done in this direction. I present
herewith a copy of a letter addressed to me by the Board of Directors of
the Central California Masonic United States Service Bureau.

I start from the premise that a Mason in the armed forces of the
United States does not need any service different from that of any other
soldier in the army save and except a purely Masonic service. I see no
reason why our members need any different or any more extensive athletic, recreational, social or religious privileges and advantages beyond those
enjoyed by any other soldier. Even if I were persuaded that they needed
·it, I am not certain that I would favor giving it to them, for ours is a democratic army, made up of all kinds and types of people, and what is sufficient for any should be sufficient for all.
When we come to the question of Masonic service it is quite another
matter. By Masonic service in this connection I mean such service as will
provide information to Masons in the armed forces whereby they may
know where the Lodges are, when they meet and when work is being done
by those Lodges.
By Masonic service I also mean service in those cases where a Mason
is sick, or where his loved ones are sick, or where emergency has struck
his family in some way, and in which emergency he needs to have the assistance of the Master or members of a Masonic Lodge. This is a service
which we should and must render, and it is a service which in my judgment
should be rendered only in and by Masonic Lodges. We do not need
recreational buildings, shower baths and social events to render Masonic
service.
In this whole matter I should like to point out that in the matter of
establishing contacts with Masons in the armed forces, whereby they may
know about available Masonic services, it is equally the duty of the Mason
himself to search out his Masonic contacts and to make his desires as well
as his needs known to those who can serve him.
I oppose the building type of service on financial grounds also. I
know, from long experience in this field, that buildings and personnel are
expensive and that they also bring problems even greater in their seriousness than mere problems of money. I can see no justification for spending
thousands of dollars every month for the operation of service centers which
duplicate the work done by recognized welfare organizations.
I am not impressed at all by the record of the volume of work done by
the service centers now in operation because I know, again from long
experience, that when any group, under any name, opens for the use of all,
any building where free services are given, that building can be packed
every hour of the day or night when men are free to be in attendance, but
the mere volume of such work in no wise indicates the actual need for it.
I can see two possibilities which may confront us in the carrying on of
our Masonic service as it has been conducted this year and as I believe
it should be conducted. The first possibility is that the Lodges located near
army posts may find that the demands made upon them for both fraternal
and social services are more costly than they are able to bear. I have said
to such Lodges this year that I would appropriate from the general funds
of Grand Lodge sufficient funds to subsidize their program where such
subsidy was recommended by the Inspector and the Master, after adequate investigation. I had the promise of approval of such action from the
Finance Committee, and had I been called upon to advance such funds, I

I

421

September 23, 1941.
M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson,
Grand Master of Masons,
Masonic Temple, San Francisco, Calif.
Most Worshipful Sir and Brother:
At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Central California Masonic U. S. Service Bureau it was decided that you should be formally advised of the formation and operation of this bureau.
Following your official visit to the Masonic Lodges in this district last

1

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

spring a meeting was held on March 31st at which were present Inspectors, Masters and Wardens of the 61st, 62nd and 63rd districts together with
the representatives from the several York and Scottish Rite bodies and
re?resent~tives from the Sciots and the Fresno Shrine Club. The result of
this ~eeting was the formal organization of this service bureau with the
foll?wing Lodges participating and assisting in the financing of the undertaking:

ren, we are extending a similar service to all Masons at the Fresno Air
Base, and we have received excellent cooperation from the officer personnel
in their official military capacities. · The morale officer at the post issues a
daily bulletin to each soldier and notices of all Lodge meetings or Lodge
functions are set forth in that bulletin . In addition, each Monday morning,
12 bulletins are placed on bulletin boards on the military reservation, giving notice of the time and place of all meetings, both Lodge and social, which
are to occur that week.
Local Lodges are coaching candidates in the military service who have
not completed their degree work. The bureau is making known to the men
at this post the fact that this service is available, is assisting initiates in
the formalities of getting proper authorization and, subject to Masonic
law and proper authorization, is assigning the conferring of degrees to
the several participating Lodges in rotation.
The result of this will be that all Masons at the post will get acquainted
with the brethren of all the local Lodges, being attracted to the several
Lodges in turn by reason of the fact that a service man is taking his degrees.
It was our original belief that we would be called upon to furnish entertainment at the post for our Masonic brethren stationed tlfere. On the
contrary, they have an abundance of talent and are furnishing groups of their
own brethren to provide entertainment at our Lodge meetings. This very
week a military chorus of 30 voices contributed their talent to the Constitution programs of the local Lodges.
We are reaping a bountiful harvest where none was expected; thus
the fraternal bonds are strengthened, and not only are the Masonic home
fires kept burning, but they are glowing brighter in the warmth of reciprocal hospitality.
We commend to you the numerous Lodges available of the several
Grand jurisdictions who have so materially and graciously aided in our
undertaking, and to you and the members of Grand Lodge we send our
greetings and best wishes.
Fraternally yours,
Directors of Central California
Masonic U . S. Service Bureau.

61st District
'Madera
No. 280
Clovis
No. 417
Kerman
No. 420
Joppa
No. 508

62nd District
Fresno
No. 247
Sanger
No. 316
Las Palm as
No. 366
Center
No. 465
Sun Garden No. 530

63rd District
Selma
No. 277
Traver
No. 294
Reedley
No. 304
Orosi
No. 383
Dinuba
No. 385

Fresno ~hapter No. 69, R. A. M. ; Fresno Commandery No. 26, K. T.;
Fre~no Scottish Rite Bodies, Fresno Sciots No. 10, A. E. O . S., and Fresno
Shrine Club.
The purpose of the organization is four-fold:
1. To keep open a simple and direct channel of correspondence between a local member presently in the military service and his Lodge
brethren at home.
2. To inform Lodges near cantonments of the presence in their vicinity
of our members to the end that Masonic contact should be strengthenednot severed.
· 3. To keep our brethren in the service advised of other local brethren
who may be stationed in or near their post.
4. In return for this cooperation and service given to our members
by t?e other Lodges, w~ are a.cting as host to all Masons in the military
service who .may be stationed in or near Fresno, keeping them advised of
Lodge meetings and otherwise extending the welcome hand of fraternal
fellowship.
This service has now been in operation approximately six months and
we report the following:
Contributions have been made from the above named Lodges at the
rate of five cents per member, amounting to $242.60, for which $73.51 has
been presently expended for supplies, stamps and stationery. No other
expense has been. incurred, because the directors, officers and secretarytrea~urer se;ve without. pay. The local Lodge secretaries have regularly
furnished ~his bureau with. the names of their members entering the service
of. the Umted States. This bureau has carried on regular correspondence
with th~se brethren, following them through their changes of stations,
and copies of all correspondence sent or received have been forwarded to
the various Lodges of which the particular brother may be a member.
Lodges located near where our brethren are stationed have been notified
of their presence. From these Lodges we have received immediate and
enthusiastic cooperation and the notified Lodge has contacted the brother
offering him fraternal service and extending a hearty invitation to attend
their meetings.
Our brethren h~ve been received with open arms of real hospitality
.
in all parts of the Umted States and their reception as sojourners has been
a Masoni.c inspiration, particularly to our younger' members. C~rrespond­
ence received from these brethren has indicated their enthusiasm and gratitude for the welcome they have received.
In reciprocation for these courtesies extended to our traveling breth-

I

423

Consolidations
I have watched with great interest the progress made by Educator
Lodge No. 554 which is the re.s uit of a consolidation last year of Golden
City Lodge No. 553 with Educator Lodge No. 554. This consolidation has
worked out with great satisfaction to all concerned. The consolidated
Lodge is more active and more able to perform its functions than the
two Lodges were before the consolidation. I call attention to this because·
I have a conviction that there are other consolidations which should be
effected.
There are many cases in the jurisdiction where c;onditions which existed
when Lodges were formed no longer exist and the need for Lodges has
disappeared. The Lodges have however gone on in a rather weak and ineffective manner. In some cases they did not consolidate because they were
not aware that consolidations were possible; in other cases because they
feared the processes of consolidation were too intricate and uncertain of
success; and in other cases because they feared that one or the other of
the Lodges would lose its identity.
The inspectors, generally speaking, know where consolidations would

425

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

be advisable, and I recommend that they discuss, at appropriate times,
with the Masters of the Lodges the possibilities of consolidation. It should
be pointed out by the inspectors that the processes of consolidation are
not too intricate and cumbersome, but that on the contrary they are
rather simple. There is no real reason to lose identity. The new Lpdge
may have the name of one and the number of the other, or it may simply
take both the name and the number of the one. Provision can be made in
the group of officers to make it possible for really capable men to continue
in office; and if the officers of the stronger of the two Lodges exercise care,
diplomacy and consideration for the rights of others, there need be no
strained relationships. It is far better to have one sound, strong Lodge than
two or three ineffective ones, and in the long run the brethren of the resulting strong Lodge will take greater pride in their Masonic membership.

Peninsula Jurisdiction
· The growth and development of the peninsula south of th~ <;it~ ~nd
County of San Francisco is bringing with it certain problems of Junsd1ct1on
which I feel are not conducive to the peace and harmony of the Lodges
involved. This condition was brought forcib ly to my attention when I had
to rule upon a question of jurisdiction involving two of o~r fine Lod~es,
and I regret to say that the decision was not accepted ~1thout question,
and there was evidence of ill-feeling which ought not to exist. T he facts of
this case are reported by me in Decision 6.
I am in sympathy with the Lodge wh ich wants t.o prese~ve its j.u:isdiction and to receive all the applications of prospective applicants hvmg
within its jurisdiction, but I am also aware that in heavily pop ulated areas
in this day of easy transportation the business, social and fratern~l. contacts of men range over a wide area and there are frequently legitimate
reasons why a prospective applicant desires to apply to a Lodge under
whose jurisdiction he may not technically re.side. The on!! a~sw:er to a
problem such as the one we have in the P~nmsula an.d w hich 1s hkely to
increase in the future rather than decrease, 1s to establish concurrent jurisdiction.
I do not recommend any action by Grand Lodge at this time but I
do recommend to the inspectors and to the officers of the Lodges concerned
-namely north of Santa Clara and south of San Francisco-that they
organize themselves into a committee to study this whole problem and to
work out a plan o f jurisdiction which will eliminate misund~rstandings and
ill-feeling and which they can present to Grand L odge at its next Annual
Communication for action under Section 217.

424

Annual Election Date
During the year I have had a number of requests for approval of an
amendment to the by-laws of a Lodge which would permit the holding of
the annual election in November rather than December.
While it is true that we have legislation which permits such a change
if approved by the Grand Master, I have denied such approval in all but
one or two cases. The purpose of the legislation, as clearly set forth in
the reports accompanying the legislation when it was adopted, was to
provide a way whereby those Lodges which could not comply with the
requirements for December election because of climatic conditions, might
advance the annual election one m onth. Many of our mountain Lodges
are snowed in in December and the members find it impossible to attend.
It is in such cases as these that I have approved the change. The instances
in which I have denied approval have all been in and around Los Angeles,
and I would have been willing to grant the approval in those cases had
the request been accompanied by a certified statement from the United
States Weather Bureau that the snow really does get so deep in Los
Angeles in December that the members cannot get to Lodge.
Investment of Lodge Funds
Many times during the year I have been asked if it was permissible
for a Lodge to invest its funds in defense bonds or other bonds designated
by the inquirer. The answer is so simple that I hesitate to give it, but in
the hope that it may save future inquiries, I will say that I directed the
attention of the inquirer to Section 152, Constitution and Ross Digest, 1940,
with the suggestion that inquiry be made at a local reputable savings bank
as to whether or not the bond in question was legal for savings banks.

A ahmes Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S.
In November Aahmes Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S. had presented to it
by a promotion company a plan for financing on which they desire? the
opinion of the Grand Master as to whether or not he would approve it for
participation by Masons.
I carefully reviewed the plan with the promoters and with the leaders
of Aahmes Temple ahd I came to the conclusion th~t it ~as not a prop~r
plan but that it involved certain elements. ~f chance 111 ~hich I felt that it
would be improper for Masons to participate and which precluded the
possibility of its receiving my approval.
I informed the P otentate and officers of Aahmes Temple of my decision
and I am happy to say that they immediately accepted the decision without
question and withdrew the entire plan.

Carpinteria Lodge
During th e year Carpinteria Lodge No. 444 suffered damage to its
building due to an earthquake. The Lodge was unable to finance the rebuilding of the Temple and I was asked if Grand Lodge could render any assistance in the matter.
Upon inquiry I was informed by the Inspector that it would require approximately $2,500 to repair the building. There was at that time a mortgage
of $12,000 on the building. I was informed that this mortgage could be
satisfied for the sum of $5,000 and that a new loan in the amount of $7,500
could be negotiated on the rehabilitated building. The $7,500 thus secured
was to be used to retire the present mortgage for $5,000 and to repay the
Grand Lodge th e $2,500 advanced for the purposes of repairing the building.
Under the terms as set forth here, I authorized the advancement of
$2,500 to Carpinteria Lodge No. 444. ·

Eastern S tar
The General Grand Chapter of the Order of Eastern Star inaugurated
a program of welfare work to which they gave the title "Easte.rn Star
Masonic Unit of the American Red Cross." It came to my attention th~t
this title was being used in the jurisdiction of the Grand L o dge of Cahfornia by the local Chapters of the Eastern Star under directioJ of the
General Grand Chapter.
No discussion of this matter had been had with this grand jurisdiction
and no permission had been granted for the us~ of the wo~d ''.Masonic"
in this connection. I therefore directed the followmg commumcahon to the
p ublications in California which had been carrying in their columns .printe~
notices and announcements concerning the "Eastern Star M asomc Umt
of the American Red Cross":
"It has come to my attention that the title 'Eastern Star Masonic

'

426

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALTFORNIA

Unit for Welfare Work' has been used in connection with the local
phases of the National enterprises of the 'Eastern Star Masonic
Unit of the American Red Cross.'
" I am sure that you will want to know that the use of the word
'Masonic' in this connection is not authorized by the Grand Lodge
of California and that in all future use of such title and such enterprises you will be glad to delete the word 'Masonic.'
"This is not to be construed as a disapproval of the objects of the
organization any more than the use of the word 'Masonic' would
necessarily indicate our approval. The use of the word 'Masonic'
in such an affair as this is permissible only by the Grand Lodge
and such permission has not been given.''

support we require is not financial. We or:ily ask that y~u orga~ize
your particular Lodge or Chapter as a umt t~ attend this occas10?·
Phone or write this office and make reservations for your p lace m
the parade and a location at the park.
"Try to attend, and bring along anyone interested, to th e next
meeting of the Central Committee on August 13, 1941, at 8 :00
P . M., to be held at 706 West Pico Boulevard, Los Angeles-Fourth
Floor.
"You are :i leader-You will 'lot fail your members-therefore
this committee will pledge to you every possible assistance in your
support of the Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies."
During the last Communication of Grand Lodge, a small commi~tee
of perhaps three or five men whose names I do not now recall, waited
upon me to inquire what my attitude would be toward a great cavalcade
of Masons. I indicated to them then tha t I would not be a i;iarty to any
such demonstration or lend my approval to it. I do not know if a_ny of t_he
present organizers of the committee of the Cavalcade of Masomc Bodies
were members of the committee which waited upon me. If they were,
they proceeded in direct violation of my expressed opinion, and if they were
not, they .proceeded without seeking the approval of the Grand Master
and without any notification to him whatever of what they pr oposed to do.

It is a pleasure to report that the publications have complied with my
request, and also that the General Grand Chapter of the Eastern Star
likewise complied and have ceased to use the word "Masonic" in this
connection.
Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies
It seems that periodically some well-intentioned brethren decide that
there should be some organized public Masonic display, and with this
conviction and with, I presume, excellent motives, they proceed without
authority to organize some great public showing under some Masonic
title chosen because of its publicity value.
Such a public display was organized under the title of "Cavalcade of
Masonic Bodies," which was to make a great public display in the Orange
County Park on Sunday, September 14, 1941. The following letter, signed
by the chairman of the Central Committee went out to the Masters of
Masonic Lodges as well as to the presiding officers of other Masonic bodies
on the letter-head of the "Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies" :
·
"To you, and to the members of the organization over which you
preside, we bring this most important announcement, and appeal
for your cooperation and support.
"At no time in the history of the world has Masonry been so
openly flaunted, its members persecuted, and its principles so successfully attacked by men in high places of power and authority as
is being done today.
"vVe stand challenged by powers that know no justice except such
as may be imposed by power and might. We possess the answer
to that challenge in the membership of over 1000 Masonic and
Affiliated Masonic Bodies in California, with an estimated membership of 300,000 carefully chosen people. We propose to demonstrate that power and might, and to answer that challenge by a
colossal assembly of Masons, their families and friends in the 'Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies' at Orange County Park on September
14, 1941. We propose a gigantic parade to the park, in which every
Lodge and club, augmented by our public officials, will be represented. We propose a full day of first class and elaborate entertainment, and all we ask of you is your whole-hearted support
and attendance.
"By such a demonstration as this we expect to fortify our own
courage in the promotion of our great fraternity. We expect to
impress our friends, and especially our enemies.
"It is a duty you and the members of your organization owe
this fraternity to support the Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies. The

427

\

The matter was however brought to my attention by the · Deputy
Grand Master, to w hom Lodges in the vicinity through their Inspecto:s
had directed inquiries as to what participation, if any, they should have m
the proposed Cavalcade.
I felt then, and still feel, that while the intentions and _motives ?f the
organizers might be of the best, it was an ill-advised action and if ~ol­
lowed to a successful conclusion might bring disrepute upon the fraternity.
We are all vitally concerned about w hat is happening to Masonry
around the world and particularly in the totalitarian countr ies. We are
able to identify the enemies of Masonry there. In the United States we do
not and should not recngnize or designate any person or group of persons
as enemies of Masonry. This is still a united country .. ~his !s ~till a re?resentative form of government and it is still democratic m thmkmg and m
action. For us to make a great show of strength to as the Cavalcade ~ut
it, "impress our enemies with that stre~gth," is a most tho.ughtless, unwise
and un-American procedure. No possible good could ultimately come to
the fraternity by staging such an affair and certainly no good would
accrue to the nation as a whole.
We need to unite upon those things wh ich unite people and t~ relega~e
to the background those things which divide people. We ~eed to. give pubh.c
evidence and display to those things which make for fnendsh1p and solidarity rather than to those things which set other groups apart as our
enemies. If everyone in America took the position . taken by these wellmeaning but though tless brethren, we would have a great m ass of separate
units each one attempting to overshadow the other by a show of strength,
and ~erhaps even attempting to prevent them from taking lawful action
because of fear of reprisals from a strong body.
I felt then and still feel that the great strength of the Masonic fraternity
is in the perso~al and civic ~ighteousness of its members, in t he purity of its
teachings and in the high practices of the institution ;.. ~nd if it ever beco.me.~
necessary to make public display of our strength to impress our enemies,
we will find that the public display reveals only the strength of number 'a nd

429

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a great lack of that true inner strength which after all is the sole and
only strength upon which an institution or a nation can survive. I therefore issued the following statement concerning the proposed Cavalcade :

Big News! The Circus is Coming!
Pollack Bros. Circus Sponsored by Sciots P yramid No. 43 and Affiliated
Masonic Bodies of Long Beach to Help " Save the Temple."
Five Things to Remember:
1. The Sci~ts ' Indoor Circus opens in the Municipal Auditorium for
seven matinees and seven evening performances, starting Monday, September 29th and ending Sunday, October 5th.
2. Buy or dispose of your book of Circus Tickets. Advance sales are
most essential.
3. How many orphan and under-privileged children's tickets will you
buy ? We wish to take every orphan and every under-privileged child to our
circus. To do this we must have your help. We will place on our Honor
Roll the name of everyone who buys tickets for the kiddies. One general
admission ticket will admit two of these children to any matinee. Mail your
check today, payable Sciots Circus Fund, to 835 Locust Avenue, Long Beach.
4. This splendid Circus comes to us most highly recommended by
various Shrine T emples that put it on as an annual affair. It is exceedingly
high class. Certain Masonic regulations prevent this being c~lled a Ma~onic
Circus so the Sciots are producing it on behalf of the Masomc and affiliated
bodies' of Long Beach. The hearty cooperation of all members is urgently
requested. All profits go to the fund to "Save the Temple."
5. There is $2.00 in cash or a beautiful premium for every book of
tickets sold-see them at Circus headquarters at the Temple. It's a fine
Circus, it's for a fine cause. Let's put it over.
Fraternally yours,

428

"It has come to my attention that it is proposed to hold a 'Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies' at the Orange County Park, Sunday,
September 14, 1941. It is my understanding that the Committee
sponsoring this affair has no official standing of any sort from any
recognized body of Masons but that on the contrary it is being
planned and arranged by a group of individuals. I do not question the motives of this group nor their earnestness in attempting
to accomplish the ends indicated in a circular letter from them
dated August 9, 1941, and signed by one Henry J. Brankey as
Chairman of the Central Committee. I do however question the
wisdom of such a display as has been arranged.
"The use of the word Masonic in this connection is ill-advised
as well as unauthorized and I feel that if the purposes as set forth
were accomplished under the name of Masonic Bodies it would
ultimately bring the fraternity into disrepute.
"The purpose of this letter is to inform you that the proposed
'Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies' has had no approval of Grand Lodge
or of the Grand Master and that had such approval been requested
the Grand Master would not have granted it. You will therefore
understand that no Master need feel under any compulsion to lend
his cooperation and likewise no Lodge need be subjected to pressure from any source to have its members participate. If individual
Masons, as citizens, desire to attend the picnic and march in the
parade, it is a matter for them to decide, but I hereby direct that
no Lodge participate as a unit and that no banners of any sort be
carried by any Lodge or members of a Lodge of this jurisdiction
in this public display, which would call the attention of the public
to the fact that they are Masons, or a group of members of any
particular Lodge. "
The processions in ~hich it is proper for Masonic Lodges to participate
as Lodges include those for funerals, for the decorating of graves, for the
laying of cornerstones, for the dedication of Temples, and for such affairs
as are purely and strictly the proper functions of Masonic Lodges.
On this whole subject I suggest that you see further the comments of
Past Grand Master Sherman (Proceedings of 1923, pages 461 and 707),
Past Grand Master Boynton (Proceedings of 1926, page 23), and of Past
Grand Master Fischer (Proceedings of 1928, pages 34 and 282) .
Long Beach Sciots Pyramid No. 43
The Sciots of Long Beach Pyramid No. 43, desiring to put on a circus
to raise money for the Long Beach Masonic Temple, asked one of the
Inspectors if this might be done in connection with the Masonic Lodges
of that city. The Inspector informed them in direct language that this was
not permissible and specified that it would be highly improper to use the
word "Masonic" with it in any connection, but if they desired to put on
a circus solely and strictly as a Sciot activity they could of course do so.
The Sciots who discussed this matter with the Inspector agreed with
his position and promised that they would keep all mention of Masonry
out of the promotional and publicity matter. In spite of this, the following
printed circular was distrib~ted in Long Beach and the one which came
to my attention was received by the Inspector:

Harold L . Beckley,
General Chairman.
Vice-Chairmen: Alvin P. Bly, W. K. Brown, Chas. E . Cresmer, E . F. N.
Cruchley, George B. Dodds, Dr. H . C. Fairley, Walter F . Good, Morris
Greenberg, Floyd Hammond, Joseph B . Love, Raymond C. Moore, Hannah
Anderson, Grace Foutz, Orel Gifford, Isabel' Harbaugh, Winnifred Helliwell, Gladys Jackson, Elizabeth R. Michel, Jessie McLendon, Eva Peoples,
Arlene Rives, Ethel Robbins, Bernice D. Smith, George E. Baker, Allan
D . Hayes, A. H . Hubbard, Aubrey R. Parks, Lon E . Peek, George A.
Richards, Dr. G. G. Verbryck.
This is not only a violation of the promise made to the Inspector but
is also in open defiance of what they knew the ruling of this Grand Lodge .
would be. Paragraph No. 4 is a particularly willful and obnoxious defiance.
Had I followed my natural inclination in this matter, I would have immediately prohibited the participation of any Mason in this affair, and it was
only the difficulties being experienced by the Long Beach Masonic Lodges
in connection with their Temple and my unwillingness to add to them which
prevented me from taking that action.
·
It is just this sort of failure to cooperate with Grand Lodge by organizations in which membership in a Masonic Lodge is a prerequisite for membership, that leads other grand jurisdictions to totally p~ohibit members
of Masonic Lodges within their juris dictions from becommg members of
other so-called Masonic bodies.
The legislation to be proposed to this Grand Lodge by the committee
of which Past Grand Master Ogden was ch<l.irman, and which would add to
the powers of the Grand Master, will, if adopted, provide the means fo;
direct action by the Grand Master in just such cases as this ; and I am

431

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

quite certain that had such action been taken in this case. it would have
been sustained by this Grand Lodge.

I am of the opinion that wherever it is practical and wherever there
are no unusual circumstances, the L odge of which the deceased was a
member should conduct the funeral services for him, and as a matter of
fact, should be both willing and anxious to perform the service themselv~s
rather than to impersonalize it by calling upon a strange group of men m
a strange Lodge.
I held that under the circumstances it was the duty of t he San Jose
Lodge to conduct funeral services for the deceased brother.
6. Palo Alto L odge No. 346 received the application of an appli~ant
residing in South San Mateo. San Mateo Lodge No. 226 entered an objection on the ground that the applicant lived nearer to San M ateo Lodge than
he did to Palo Alto Lodge.
In supporting their right to receive the application, Palo Alto Lodge
submitted to me a signed statement by the County Engineer which read
as follows:

430

Decisions
There have been many matters presented to me in which I have felt
the law was perfectly clear and in such sases I have simply directed the
attention of the inquirer to the law or have assisted in the interpretation of it.
Unless some real point has been involved I have felt it unnecessary to
make decisions and therefore I present but a few for action by Grand Lodge.
1. I was asked if a prospective applicant for the degrees of Masonry,
whose sole business was the operation of a retail bottled goods liquor store,
was eligible to apply for the degrees of Masonry and if the Lodge might
receive the application.
I held that under our present law the applicant was eligible and that
the Lodge might receive the application.
2. I was asked if a prospective applicant for the degrees of Masonry,
whose sole business was the wholesale liquor business, was eligible to
apply and if the Lodge might receive the application.
I held that under our present law the applicant was eligible and that
the Lodge might receive the application.
3. A Lodge desiring to recognize and reward an excellent piece of
service to the Lodge by one of its oldest Past Masters, voted to purchase a
Life Membership from the Lodge funds and present it to the retired Past
. Master as a testimonial.
I held that this was not a proper use pf Lodge funds.
4. A Lodge desired to tender a banquet to the local Chapter of the
Eastern Star and asked if they might pay for it out of the refreshment
fund.
I held that this was not a proper use of Lodge funds.
5. A situation developed between a Lodge in San Jose and a Lodge in
San Mateo with reference to the funeral of a deceased brother. The facts,
which no one disputed, are that the deceased, a member in San Jose, died in
San Mateo, and that the Master of the Masonic Lodge in San Mateo
denied the request of the San Jose Master that San Mateo conduct the
funeral. It is also not disputed that thP Master of the San Jose Lodge had
a day off from his work on the Saturday in question when the service was
to be conducted, and that he pressed the San Mateo Lodge on the ground
that since the member had died in San Mateo, it was the duty of the San
Mateo Lodge to bury him.
In my judgment the Master of the San Mateo Lodge ought not to be
censured in the case for having failed to bury a member who died within
the jurisdiction of his Lodge. The fact of the matter is that the deceased
had long been a member of the San Jose Lodge, that he was known to the
officers and members of that Lodge, that he died within approximately·
twenty-five miles of that Lodge, and that he had requested a Masonic
funeral.
The provision in the law which provides that a sojourning brother shalt
be buried by the Lodge within whose jurisdiction he dies, was in my judgment never intended to relieve a Lodge from a duty which it should perform
if the performance of that duty was a reasonable one. The provision of
the law was intended to cover the situation where a brother dies at such a
distance from his home Lodge that it would work an unusual and unnecessary hardship upon the officers and members of that Lodge to journey to the:
place of burial.

"To whom it may Concern :
"This is to certify that the air line distance from the residence of
.. ............,.......... ., Jiving on Flores Street in South San Mateo, San
Mateo County, to the Masonic Temple, Unive~sity_ Avenue and
Florence Street, Palo Alto; Santa Clara County, is nme and threequarters (9 ~) m iles.
(s)" M. A. Grant,
"County Engineer."
Applying Section 218 I held that Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 could
rightfully receive and act' upon the petition of this applicant.
Recommendations
Life Membership: Lodges which have Life Memberships _fr_e~uently
find that the life member moves away, drops out of Lodge activities and
eventually loses all contact with the Lodge. The efforts of the Secretary
to locate the member are without avail and there is no possible way by
which the Lodge may communicate with him. As the _years pass by the
law of probability would indicate that the member ha_d died, but the L odge
continues to pay the per capita tax to Grand Lodge just the same as there
is at present no method by which the member may be re~oved from the
Lodge rolls. This seems to me not only to work a hardship on the Lod!Se
but also to make it impossible to get a real figure of our total membership.
I therefore recommend that appropriate legislation be adopted which
will cure this situation.
Financing Building Projects: The work of the Committee ~n ~inancing
Building Projects has resulted in so much good to the. Fraternity m general
that it seems to me that the scope of work of the committee should be broadened and that proper legislation should be enacted to provide for the additional work of the committee.
I therefore recommend that legislation be enacted which will give this
committee general supervision over the fi nancing of_ new temples, the _refinancing of old temples and the financing of remodelmg and reconstruction
wherever such operations assume major proportions.
Appreciation
To all of the officers, Inspectors and committee-men of Grand Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I express my sincere thanks for the many courtesies shown me during
the year. By their attendance at the various receptions and other functions,
as well as by the many personal acts of service performed, they have made
my year as Grand Master much easier and much more pleasant.

may yet be some love of freedom· must be broken up and their leaders
executed.

432

The Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary, and the office
staff have held themselves in readiness at all times to serve the Grand
Master and their service has been effective, highly intelligent and wholehearted.
It is difficult to put into words the genuine appreciation which I feel
for all that has been done, and so I simply say "Thank you."

Conclusion
I cannot conclude this, my last message to you, without directing your
attention to the very serious times in which we are living. What the future
may hold I would not dare to forecast, but that we stand in the midst of
a great world cataclysm cannot be denied. It is equally apparent that this
is no mere recurrence of an age-old succession of wars but is in fact a world
revolution and a titanic struggle between two opposing philosophies ·of
government. That we are not already engaged in the actual physical
struggle is our good fortune, and it is to be hoped that we may be spared
such participation. That we are~ however, a part of the total struggle and
that we need to guard ourselves against being taken unawares cannot
be denied.
One of the most interesting phases of the present world situation is the
casualness and the almost indifference with which the people of the United
States view this world cataclysm. There seems to be a general feeling that
the war is still a long way removed from us and that we will never become
involved. Perhaps we can't be hurt and perhaps we should mind our own
business and merely provide for our own defense and ignore what has
been happening elsewhere in the world.
I say perhaps, because there is another side to it which deserves more
than passing attention. It ha.s been a tradition in the United States that
"any American Boy" might become President, and that is still true. We
have always, however, pointed out that in only 'one or two other countries
of the world was this true and the very fact that it was true in America
helped make and keep this a democracy. It certainly was not true in Russia,
Italy and Germany. Consider for a moment how things have changed. The
three individuals who are the rulers of these countries would all classify
under the title, "any boy," for certainly none of them was born to rule.
There is, therefore, a parallel between the United States of America and
these other countries where a boy from a non-ruling family has succeeded
to great power, but there the parallel ends.

In the United States that system helps to make and keep a democracy.
In those nations it destroys whatever democracy there was and makes its
revival impossible. In the United States such leadership is possible by the
Bill of Rights. In the other nations of the world it is possible only by the
law of might.
The inevitable results of totalitarian governments are those constantly
portrayed for all the world to see, namely persecution, conquest, destruction
and domination. These are bad enough, but the steps by which they are
achieved are equally bad. Before the results can be obtained, individual
rights must be destroyed, minorities crushed and groups in which there

433

'rhe question immediately before us is, do these rulers have any way by
which to destroy our representative form of government and our democratic processes in this great republic? If we are thinking in terms of
an immediate wholesale destruction, the answer must be no, for it must
be evident to any thinking person that a successful military conquest
of the United States cannot be made at one fel1 swoop. If we however
think, as we should be thinking, of the slow, insidious method of d~struction'
we then have real cause for grave concern; for an attack upon any phas~
of American life which is itself a part of the pattern of a total attack upon
American life, directly affects us.
The methods employed are, after a11, simple. Without elaborating them
they include anything.which causes Americans to lose confidence in this for~
of government, causes los_s of confidence in its leadership, continues to
foment unrest between capital and labor, sets one man against another advocates the superiority of one group over another, despises a grou~ of
people because of their religious faith, and which demands for itself and its
own subversive groups the rights which would be denied to a11 men if they
themselves should accomplish their purposes. These are the simple methods
by which, over a long period of time, it is hoped to render the people of the
United States dissatisfied, impotent, defenseless and disunited.
The task then of Masonic Lodges in these times is a simple one for the
task of a Lodge is nothing more than the task of the individual Mas~n · that
task is to continue to be loyal to the philosophy of government and the' laws
of. the cou?try in ~hich we reside, even though we may rightfully disagree
with certam techmques and work for what we individually feel to be the
welfare of mankind. It means to continue such practices in our relationships
with ?1en as will kee? this a united nation. It means the insistence upon
the rights of others m order that there may be rights for all. It means
~ontiriuing to demand that the freedom of every man shall be respected
m order that there may be freedom for all, and above all it means in these
times that every Mason should, with great intelligence and deliberation
exercise _that steadying influence in his own circle of friends, which is s~
essential if we are to avoid chaotic thinking and precipitous action.
The success of the United States up to this day has been due to a
of government and the willingness of the people to
submit to that government. The best governmental system in the world
will not work if there is not on the part of the governed a spirit of obedience and cooperation. If we want to preserve for ourselves and our posterity
the government under which we have enjoyed the fruits of our labors
under which we have been free to enjoy life, liberty and the pursuit
happiness there must be a rededication of ourselves to the principles of representative government and a willingness to be bound by those things
which mean the greatest good for the greatest number. There must be a
new dedication to obedience to law and an insistence upon the application
of that law to all alike, which implies a willingness to have the law applied
to ourselves.
basic~1ly sound form

of

To the practice of these principles and to the preservation of these
fundamentals of the American form of government, we can, as did those
early Masons pledge, "our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor."
And no:v at the close of this, my final message to you, I want you to
know how smcerely grateful I am for the honor which has been conferred

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

upon me, for the great privilege which has been mine ~n serving y~u, and
for the opportunity afforded me to know more of the high place which our
great fraternity has in this State.
.
I have been especially rewarded in the making of new friendships ~nd
in more firmly cementing the old ones. I invoke upon you the b_lessmg
which you yourselves know so well and which is so full of meaning for
every Lodge and for the Grand Lodge: " May the blessing of .Heaven rest
upon you and all regular Masons. May brotherly love prevail and every
moral and social virtue cement you."
LLOYD E. W11.soN, Grand Master.

Referred to the following Committee on Segregation: John R.
Moore, Charles Hogan and Washington I. Kohnke.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

435

REPORT OF GRAND SECRET ARY

To the M:. W : . .Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor of presenting herewith my report as Grand Secretary
·during the past six months, together with a report of the transactions of
the office from the last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge to the date
of my assuming the duties of Grand Secretary.
In the passing of our beloved brother, V. W . John Whicher, Masonry
in California has suffered an irreparable loss. His long, efficient service
as Grand Secretary and his delightfu l personality, and his willingness at
all times to be of service, greatly endeared him to the members of the craft,
not only in California, but throughout the entire Masonic world.
·
I greatly appreciated and highly prized his friendship, his assistance
and fatherly advice throughout the many years I served on the History
Committee and particularly during the years I served as a line officer and
as Grand Master. And I assumed the duties and responsibilities of Grand
Secretary fully conscious of that which my subsequent experience has
verified.

It would have been difficu lt for any one to fill the office which John
Whicher's experience and personality had so glorified. This difficulty has
been particularly acute in my case because 6f my realization of the contrast
between his background and experience and my own.
Membership
1930
Number of Lodges formed .............,....................
2
,Initiations reported ................................................. 6,650
:Passings .................................................................... 6,275
Raisin gs .................................................................... 6,215
Affiliated ...................................................:................. 1,571

1940
3
3,143
3,063
2,995
1,057
21
..
279
456
Withdrawn .........., ......................................,..:........... 1,220
1,128
1,804
Suspended non-payment of dues .......................... 1,734
17
Expelled ......" ....., ...............................................'.....•..
34
Loss by error ..,...~ ..................................•................
29
2,105
Died .............. _............................................................ 1,638
Number ~1embers Ju ly_31 .......:............................ 142,062
. 126,185
Dues remitted ........................................................... 1,456
4,513
Loss in the year ...................................................... 3,410
554
Net gain in twenty years._. ...................,..40,662

~::~~~at~~ e-~~~~ ::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::;:;'.'.: ::

1941
3,179
3,031
3,105
885
74
539
1,003
1,660
18

75
2,188
125,843
3,983
342

Representatives Appointed
Under date of August 4, 1941,·the G·r and Master of the Grand Lodge of
West. Virginia appointed M. W . Randolph; Virginius Wh iting as representaL
tive ot the Grand Lodge of West Virginia near the ' Gi'and Lodge of Cali~
fornia.

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Under date of August 4, 1941, the Grand Master of the Gran Logia de la
Isla de Cuba appointed M. W. Leon 0 . Whitsell as representative of that
Grand Lodge near the Grand Lodge of California.
Under date of September 25, 1941, by order of the Grand Master, a
commission was issued to W. Brother Chas. N. Kimball as representative of
the Grand Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge of West Virginia.
Fifty Year Buttons
Following is a list of the veteran brethren who received fifty-year buttons this fiscal year:

Name and Lodge
Raised
Allen, William Huddlestone, Belvedere No. 539........................January 7, 1891
Anderson, Alden, Washington No. 20.................................... December 15, 1890
Baker, Edgar Eugene, Visalia No. 128..................................::......August 4, 1889
Bancroft, Harlow Palmer, Oak Grove No. 215 .................... September 16, 1885
Belyea, John Henry, Molino No. 150........................................September 12, 1891
Bennett, Charles Newton, Monterey No. 217,....................:;......,..,.June 27, 1891
Bilger, Frank William, Yerba Buena No. 403 ...............,..................June 7, 1890
Binning, Charles, Cal\fornia No. 1-.........................................December 22, 1890
Brewster, George Platt, Craftsman No. 559.·-·-······························J une 18, 1891
Brotzman, Franklin Wilson, Ramona No. 457.............................. Aprit 4, 1890
Cassasa, Charles Henry, J ewe! No. 374....~ ....:........'................]anuary 29, 1891
Churchill, Jerome Percy, Howard No. 37................................ February 28, 1891
Churchill, Jesse Warren, Howard No. 37................................February 28, 1891
Coles, John Ezra, S. W. Hackett No. 574.............................. December 16, 1889
Cooper, Samuel M., Doric No. 216,....................... _.......................•.. May 15, 1890
Couch, Raymond Elmo, El Centro No. 384.............................. August 10, 1891
Craig, Murdock Alfred, Hartley No, 199.............................. November 14, 1883
Dickinson, Robert F., Pacific No. 136........................................ 0ctober 21, 1890
Dingley, Charles Llewellyn, Yerba Buena No. 403 ............ November 18, 1890
Draper, Calvin Carmichael, Elysian No. 418..................................June 20, 1891
Elkins, Frank Edgar, Temple No. 14.............................................. March 17, 1891
Eppinger, Josua, Fidelity No. 120.................................................. March 21, 1891
Evans, William Robert, Brooklyn No. 225 ................................0ctober 21, 1890
Fleisher, Samuel, Hesperian No. 264...................................... November 17, 1888
Frick, Euclid B., Bethlehem No. 453 ............................................ 0ctober 7, 1891
G.ebhart, Erastus Manford, Reedley No. 302.......:....................January 10, 1880
Glines, Herbert Atherton, Alcatraz No. 244.......................,.... February 16, 1891
Goodrich, Edward, Fresno No. 247-..................:......:..................January 17, 1890
Gowell, Charles Alfred, Abell No. 146........,.......................................Ma.y 3, 1890
Griffin, Johii Frank, Buckeye No. 195.............................................. Aprit 6, 1891
Hale, Reuben B., Sacramento No. 40 ........................................ October 30, 1891
Hall, Benjamin, Nevada No. 13.................................................. February 19, 1890
Hardison, Allan Crosby, Santa Paula No. 29.1.. ............,......... December 9, 1890
Hammer, Michaelis, Ione No. 80............................:..................... August 15, 1891
Harroun, Philip Embury, Durant No. 268............................ September 5, 1890
Harvey, William Alonzo, Mount Moriah No. 44.................. December 27, 1890
Hemmelman, Chris Anton, Fillmore No. 379........................ November 16, 1889
Hopkins, Frederick Beach, Las Palmas No. 366..............................May 9, 1881
Imme, William Julius, Humboldt No. 79-··-··································May 27, 1891
I saac, Frederick N., Hanford No. 279..............................•...............May 30, 1891
Jenness, Herbert Henry, Durant No. 268........................................ April 29, 1891
J ohnson, Levi Crittenden, Sunnyside No. 577..................- ............ April 18, 1891
Johnson, Oliver Morton, South Pasadena No. 367.................. March 16, 1889

437

Name and Lodge
Raised
Kaufmann, Emil Herman, East Bay No. 489.............................. April 17, 1890
Keller, John F., Orange Grove No. 293...................................... February 21, 1891
Kennedy, Charles Th<;>mas, Summit No. 112............ :.....•..... December 20, 1890
Knott, Alber~ ~dams, Naval No. 87........:.......,.......:.._.;:.::.......January 24, 1891
Larrabee, Wilham Leroy, McKinley No. 347.............................. May 17, 1890
Ledger, Louis Henry, Arlington No. 414.................................. December 2, 1890
Llewellyn, William, Los Angeles No. 42...................................... 0ctqber 27, 1890
Lunsford, Lewis Monroe, Friendship No. 210................ :............. May 28, 1891
Lyster, William Grafton, Long Beach No. 327........................ 0ctober 10, 1890
Mahon, Kirby Smith, Enterprise No. 70.................................... 0ctober 11, 1890
Mallery, George T., Damascus No. 648.................................... November 1 1890
Marchese'. B.artholomew, Mizpah No. 378 ..,............,..:................ ~---~June 19'. 1890
Marsh, Wilhs Corydon, Fruitvale No. 336.................................. February 8, 1891
Marshall, James, North Butte No. 230..............................................July 1, 1891
Mart~n, Alfred, Nevada No. 13............................................................ April 4, 1891
Massie, Edward Darneby, Malta No. 661................................ 0ctober 31, 1890
McCauley, Noah T., Arlington No. 414. .....:........:...................................... 1891
McConnell, Willis Talbott, Craftsman No. 559..................August 28, 1890
McKenzie, C~arles Bell, Pentalpha No. 202..........................:... 0ctober 5, 1891
McLean, Dame! Alexander, Southern California No. 278.......... 0ctober 8, 1890
McLennan, Alexander, Libertas No. 466..............................September 20, 1889
Miller, Walter Elmer, El Dorado No. 26...........................:.. September 18, 1890
Miner, Franklin Nelson, Fresno No. 247...............................•...... Aprll 7, 1885
Morgan, William Augustus, Evergreen No. 2$9..............................July 13, 1889
Morrow, Almond R., Pacific No. 136........................................- .... May 26, 1891
Nichols, Thomas Milan, Upland No. 419 .......~ .............................. March 12, 1891
Off, John William A., Southern California No. 278.................. 0ctober 22, 1890
Ogilvie, Robert B., Mount Diablo No. 448........................................ March 4, 1890
Orto, Joseph Dell, Calaveras No. 78...................................... September 16 1890
Pillsbury, Joseph Davis, Dinuba No. 385...................................... May 14,' 1891
Plummer, Alvin, California No. l...........:...........:..,:..........................June 18 1891
Prisk, William Frederick, Madison No. 43........................................July 25'. 1891
Robinson, Richard Felix, Los Gatos No. 292........................ 0ctober 4, 1890
Ruble, Milton Alfonso, Smyrna No. 532.............................. February 6, 1891
Sansom, John Andrew, Oak Grove No. 215...................................... May 28, 1891
Saunders, Charles W., Marin No. 191...................................,.....:......June 15, 1891
Schone, John, Los Anegeles No. 42........................................ September 25, 1890
Scroggie, Charles Ramsey, Palisades No. 637................................ April 28, 1891
Schuckman, Frank James, Tuscan Nq. 261.. .................................. April 23, 1891
Shaw, Joseph Armitage, Ferndale No. 193....................................July 6, 1891
Shelton, Harry Ashton, Pentalpha No. 202..........................September 28, 1891
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan, Excelsior No. 166....................September 16, 1891
Sn;ith, Lovias Olin Horton, Ontario No. 3CH ..................................June 29, 1887
Spiller, George Weldon, California No. !........................ September 17, 1891
Spencer, William H ., Ontario No. 301...................................:.... April 15, 1872
Stanley, Edward Charles, Molino No. 150.......................... ~.........June 14, 1890
Steele, John Corbett, Santa Monica No. 307...................... September 16, 1891
Stephens, William Dennison, Southern California No. 278.. February 11, 1891
Stone, David P., Phoenix No. 178...................................................:...:July 2, 1890
Stow, Harry Luther, Evergreen No. 259.............................. December 19, 1890
Strang, John, Burlingame No. 400.............................................. 0i:tober 17, 1890
Sutton, Joseph Albert, East Bay No. 489..........................................July 16, 1890
Thomson, Robert, Mount Diablo No. 448........................................ Aprit 30, 1891·
Topping, Hugh Melburn, Greenleaf No. 670........................ November 13, 1890
Trewhitt, Wayne Douglas, Hanford No. 279................................April 20, 1889

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name and Lodge
Raised
Tucker, Homer Celsis, Hills Ferry No. 236..................., ............ August 8, 1891
Volberg, Frederick Ludvig, Oak Grove No. 215........................April 2, 1891
Von Hirsch, Seminiti Julius, Oakland No. 188..................January 10, 1891
Waldron, Vernon, Oakland No. l88............................~....'. _......January 17, 1891
\Varfield, George H ., Sotoyome No. 123.. :.....................,.. _....... December 6, 1890
Webb, Lew D., Delano No. 309..................................,...............August 11, 1890
Wilkie, Wm. Frederick, Sr., Truckee No. 200:............................. March 5,1891
Williams, Richard Roland, Ferndale No. 193.......:........................ May 23, 1891
Wood, Casimar J ., Mendocino No. 179........................................March 7, 1891

Decreasing fees : West Gate Lodge No. 335, to $50; Palestine Lodge No.
351, to $50; Artesia Lodge No. 377, to $30; East Bay Lodge No. 489 to $50;
Garvanza Lodge No. 492, to $50; Roosevelt Lodge No. 500, to $75; Service
Lodge No. 594 to $50 ; Meridian Lodge No. 667, to $50.

438

Life Memberships
The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life memberships
in the following Lodges :
San Jacinto No. 338, $150.00; Balder No. 393, $200.00 ; Argonaut No.
461, $250.00.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master approved the following requests for special dispensations for various purposes:
To elect officers at a tinie other than that fixed by law :
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59 ; Plumas Lodge No. 60 ; Forest Lodge No.
66; Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ; Franklin Lodge No. 143; Eel River Lodge
No. 147; Evening Star Lodge No. 186; Traver Lodge No. 294; Mt. Jackson
Lodge No. 295 ; Carquinez Lodge No. ,337; Artesia Lodge No. 377; Fillmore
Lodge No. 379; Dinuba Lodge No. 385; Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389;
Burlingame Lodge No. 400; Pittsburg Lodge No. 429; Maricopa Lodge
No. 434; Seaside Lodge No. 504; Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541;
Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568 ; Progressive Lodge No. 578; Alexander
Graham Bell Lodge No. 595; Kaweah Lodge No. 665 ; R edwood Empire
Lodge No. 683.
To receive and act upon an application without refere11ce to a committee :
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.
T o rcceiu and act 1tpo11 applications of rejected applicants for the degrees
within a less period than 12 months:
Visalia Lodge No. 128; Mountain View Lodge No. 194; Dunsmuir
Lodge No. 297; Palms Lodge No. 512.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Army or Navy,
who lacks the qualification of residence :
Crockett Lodge No. 139; Salinas Lodge No. 204; Welcome Lodge
No. 255; Paso Robles Lodge No. 286; La Jolla Lodge No. 518.

Amendments to By-Laws
Increasing f ees: Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, to $100; Veritas Lodge No.
640, to $75.
Increasing dues: Turlock Lodge No. 395, to $15; La Puente Lodge No. 446,
to $10 ; James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566, to $12; Granada Lodge No. 608,
to $10; Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625, to $10.
Increasing affiliatiot1 fee: Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, to $10; Veritas
Lodge No. 640, to $15.

439

Decreasing dues : Lompoc Lodge No. 262, to $9 ; Fruitvale Lodge No.
336, to $12.

Providittg for a change of Stated M eeting dates : Alturas Lodge No. 248;
No_rth East Lodge No. 266; Sunset Lodge No. 352 : Jewel Lodge No. 374;
Fairmount Lodge No. 435; Lancaster Lodge No. 437; Sojourner Lodge No.
607; San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668; Far West Lodge No. 673.
Exceptiiig holidays as Staled Meeting dates: San Mateo Lodge No. 226;
Delano Lodge No. 309; Redondo Beach Lodge No. 328; San Pedro Lodge
No. 332; Carquinez Lodge No. 337; Hermosa Lodge No. 557; Progressive
Lodge No. 578; Harding Lodge No. 584.
P roviding for a change of meeting place: Golden Gate Lodge No. 30;
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44; Brawley· Lodge No. 402; Lancaster Lodge No.
437 ; Carpinteria Lodge No. 444; Seaport Lodge No. 550; Hillcrest Lodge
No. 573; Guardian Lodge No. 596 ; Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677.

Trial Records
No. 985-A member of La Mesa Lodge No. 407. Expelled January 8,
1940.
No. 986-A member of Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511. Expelled October
2, 1940.
No. 987-An Entered Apprentice member of McKinley Lodge No. 347.
Expelled December 5, 1940.
.
No. 988--A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Exoelled
November 7, 1940.
·
No. 989- A member of Berkeley Lodge No. 363. Expelled November

7, 1940.

No. 990-A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Expelled November
5, 1940.
No. 991-A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Expelled November
5, 1940.
No. 992--A member of le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371. Expelled November 25, 1940.
No. 993-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139; tried by Bethlehem
Lodge No. 453. Suspended April 1, 1941.
No. 994-A member of Humboldt Lodge No. 79. Expelled April 3,
i941.
No. 995-A member of Florence Lodge No. 649. Expelled April 3,
1941.
No. 996-A member of George Washington Lodge No. 525. Expelled
May 6, 1941.
No. 997- A member of Marin Lodge No. 191. Suspended June 11,
1941.
No. 998-A member of Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331.' Expelled March
6, 1941.

440

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 999-A member of Madera Lodge No. 280.
1941.

Expelled June 9,

No. 1000-A member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166. Expelled July. 2,
1941.
No. 1001-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Reprimand September
2, 1941.
No. 1002-A member of Seal Rock Lodge No. 536. Expelled August
6, 1941.
No. 968-Remanded for new trial. A member of Landmark Lodge No.
253. Expelled December 14, 1940.
No. 978~Remanded for new trial. A member of Las Palmas Lodge
No. 366. Expelled December 19, 1940.
No. 979-Remanded for new trial. A member of All States Lodge No.
593. Expelled July 7, 1941.
No. 983-Remanded for new trial. A member of Union Lodge No. 58.
Expelled January 8, 1941.
No. 155-A member of Doric Lodge No. 216, (J. E.).
restoration May 8, 1941.

Petition for

No. 749-A member of Laurel Lodge No. 245, (V. G. D.). Restoration
of suspended member April 4, 1941.

441

$1,500.00 be appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the
ensuing fiscal yaer.
LEON 0. WHITSELL,
Grand Secretary.
Report of Auditors

To the Finance Committee, Grand Lodge:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Grand Lodge, F. &
A. M. of California, for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1941, and present herewith the following statements:
Grand Secretary's Accounts
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1941.
Exhibit B-1: Statement. of per capita dues collected during 1940-1941
for Grand Lodge from 1940 Annual Returns.
Exhibit B-2: Statement of per capita dues and Home tax collected
during 1940-1941 for Masonic Homes of California from 1940 Annual Returns and $25.00 Home tax for three quarters of 1940-1941.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's accounts, statement of cash receipts
and disbursements fiscal year ended July 31, 1941.
Exhibit D: Statement of assets and capital account, as at July 31, 1941.

Unfinished Business
Past Grand Master Adams presented the following resolution on the
third day of the last Annual Communication (p. 602 of the Proceedings)
and it was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and Committee on
Policy and General Purposes with instruction to report thereon at the next
Annual Communication.
Resolved, That unless otherwise ordered by unanimous consent,
every resolution proposing to amend the Constitution, Regulations,
or the Uniform Code of By-Laws, shall be presented in writing at
a regular Annual Communication and shall be immediately referred
to the appropriate committee, which shall report thereon in writing
at the next Annual Communication; and that the proposed resolution
shall appear in full in the printed Proceedings of the Communication
at which it was presented.

Exhibit E: List of investments, as at July 31, 1941.
Comments-As shown in the capital section of Exhibit D, the revenue
from per capita dues and other sources exceeded the total of expenses and
appropriations by $14,308.90.
All dues payable during the current year, as reported on the 1940 Annual Returns, have been paid in full. Our Exhibits B-1 and B-2 show proof
of revenue due from the lodges in accordance with their 1940 Annual Returns and the $25.00 Home tax reports for the first three quarters of the
fiscal year 1940-1941. The total revenue due, as shown, agrees with the
total cash received from the lodges by the Grand Secretary. Cash receipts
were accounted for and traced to the proper depositaries. Disbursements
were made by checks and supported by properly approved vouchers.
All bank balances were verified by correspondence. Certified lists of
stocks and bonds belonging to all funds were· received from the AngloCalifornia National Bank, which holds the securities in trust.

Also the following resolution introduced by Russell C. Horstmann,
Past Master of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 and Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
of Sequoia Lodge No. 349:

Loans made to the several lodges and unpaid as at July 31, 1941, are
as follows:
Drytown Lodge No. 174................. ,................ $440.00

Whereas, It is believed that the printing and distribution of a
series of simple, effective and inexpensive pamphlets explaining
the work of the Masonic Employment Service to all members of
the constituent lodges throughout the State would be an added stimulus to the success of this work:

We certify that, in our opinion, subject to the foregoing comments, the
attached statements set forth the financial condition of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, as at July 31, 1941, and the result of its operations
for the fiscal year.

Now, Therefore, be it Resolved, That under the direction of the
Grand Master such a series of pamphlets be printed and distributed
to all constituent Lodges, said pamphlets to be mailed out with
Lodge bulletins quarterly;
And, be it Futher Resolved, That for this purpose the sum of

Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit A

Expensei, Annual Communications ..................................................... .
874.60
Expenses, Public Schools Week ................................•........................... ·
552.36
308.38
Expen~es, Constitut~on Observance --····:··•···············-··········-, ............ .
Travelmg expense, mspectors ............................................................... .
224.23
Inspectors' stationery and aprons ......................................................... .
638.95
Gold buttons, fifty-year veterans ........................................................... .
281.00
Audit ...•..........................................................................................................
150.00
Portraits of Past Grand Masters (2) ................................................... .
500.00
Present for Grand Master ..................................................................... .
300.00
Lodge officers' surety bond premium ................................................... .
1,450.74
Expense, Grand Treasurer ..................................................................... .
671.30
Traveling expense, Grand Lodge officers ........................................... .
421.98
Social security taxes ,.............................................................................•.
197.23
Miscellaneous expense ............................................................................. .
845.87
Swiss refugee relief ................................................................................... .
2,000.00

Grand Secretary's Accounts
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
Cash balance, Aug-_ust 1, 1940 ............................ ,_................... .,..,, ..•. ,..... ,,.$ 49,649.43

Cash Received by Grand SecretaryDues from lodges, 1940 (Exhibit B-1) .......................... $100,437.75
Dues from lodges, prior years ........................................
21.50
Dispensations ......................................................................
155.00
C,harters .................. :.............................................................
100.00
Sales of supplies ..............................................................
8,590.45
Collections for lodge officers' surety bonds:...............
1,955.62
Chowchilla No. 485, loan ................................................
300.00
Gravel Range No. 59, loan .................................. ""..........
400.00
Total cash received direct by Grand Secretary..

Appropriations:
111,960.32

Cash Received by Grand TreasurerBank interest ..................................................................... .
944.03
Bond interest (after amortization) ............................... . 4,052.41
Amortization of bond premiums ................................... .
245.27
Dividends ............................................................................ 7,783.72
Sales of stocks and bonds ............................................. . 136,790.93
Total cash received direct by Grand Treasurer ..

149,816.36

Total cash to account for .: ... :,.:... :............;...............:..•. ;;.:....... $311,426.11

Salaries, Grand Tiler and Grand Organist .............................. .'...........
Relief, order of the Grand M;aster .......................... ,............................ .
Reimbursing Masonic Homes for outside relief for those not eligible for admittance ..........................................................................
Expenses, Board of Control ........., ............................, ..................... ~......

Pay of representatives to Grand Lodge ................ $ 17,130.48
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief ................. . . 447.06
Employment Bureaus ............................................. . 15,400.00
Traveling expense Grand Master ......................... . 4,500.00
Masonic Club Houses ............................................. . 15,000.00
Endowment Board ................................................. . 6,000.00
Grand Lodge Week activities .............................. 2,617.96
Correspondence Committee ................................... .
500.00
History Committee ................................................. .
114.09
Education Committee ............................................. .
20.49

61,730.08

Total cash disbursed by Grand Secretary ............................$110,676.85

Cash Disbursed by Grand TreasurerPurchase of stocks and bonds .............................................................. 143,898.38

Cash disbursed through Grand Secretary's OfficeGrand Secretary's office expense:
Salaries paid ..........................................$12,908.08
Less reimbursed by Masonic
Homes ........ :............................. 1,800.00
$ 11,108.08
Rent ···············'··············'····•······························---··········
4,500.00
Postage ........................................................................
723.43
Telephone and telegraph ..........................................
479.47
Supplies and sundry expense ................................
652.81
Printing ....... ,....................................................................... .
Salary, Grand Lecturer ................................................. .
Traveling expense, Grand Lecturer and assistants ... .
Supplies for resale:
Printing, binding and supplies .......... :.............. :.. ,:$ 7,381.54
Postage and shipping expense ..............................
723.43

443

Total all disbursements .•...........•................: ........................... :······'··~254,575123
Cash balance, July 31, 1941:
Funds with Grand Treasurer .... :....................•....$ 56,300.88
Funds with Grand Secretary ..................................
550.00
$ 56,850.88

17,463.79
4,604.78
578.33
843.65

Exhibit B-1
Statement of Per Capita Dues Collected During 1940-41
for Grand Lodge from 1940 Annual Returns

8,104.97
300.00
2,600.50

Degrees conferred:
Number
Initiated ...................................................... 3,143
Passed ······························'···············'··········· 3,063
Raised .......................................................... 2,995

4,715.00
3JQ.11

Total.. ........................................... :......

9,201

Per Capita
Dues

@$1.00

Amount

$

9,201.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

444
1'Iaster 11asons :

The report of the Grand Treasurer was presented by Brother
Russell C. Horstmann.

11embership, 1940 .................................... 126,185
Deduct dues remitted ······-····'··············· 4,536
Total .................................................... 121,649

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
@$ .75

91,236.75

Total Grand Lodge dues as per annual returns of 1940.................: ....$100,437.75
Cash received during the fiscal year 1940-41 ··········:····························-$100,437.75
Exhibit B-2
Statement of Per Capita Dues and Home Tax Collected During 1940-41
for Masonic Homes of California from 1940 Annual Returns, and
$25.00 Homes Tax for First Three Quarters of 1940-41
Per capita dues 126,185 11aster 11asons:
(Less 11asons whose dues were remitted, 4,536.)
For maintenance, 121,649 @ 40c............................$ 48,659.60
For building fund, 121,649 @ SOc............................ 60,82,4.50
Total dues collected ..........................................................................$109,484.10
$25.00 Initiation tax, 1939-40:
Initiations ................................3143
Affiliations .............................. 283
E. A. and F. C. ...................... 6
Dual members ........................ · 8

Exhibit C
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements Fiscal Year
Ended July 31, 1941
Cash balance August 1, 1940 ................................,....................:········..--$ 49,149.43
ReceiptsFrom Grand Secretary .............................:..................:....$111,910.32
Bank interest ......................................................................
944.03
Bond interest (after amortization) ................................ 4,052.41
Amortization of bond premiums ....................................
245.27
Dividends ...........................,................................................ 7,783.72
Stocks and bonds sold :
$10,000 Elgin, Joliet & Eastern Ry.
Co. Bonds :.............................$ 10,250.00
5,027.52
5,000 Imperial County Highway..
20,100 U. S. A. Treasury................ 21,513.41
25,000 shares 11asonic Temple Association stock .................... 100,000.00
136,790.93
Total receipts ............................................................................."............... 261,726.68
Total cash to account for ........................................................................$310,876.11

Total... ...............................3440 $ 86,000.00
Less first three quarters collected and
reported in 1940 Proceedings.......... 55,575.00
Balance fourth quarter 1939-40, collected during
1940-41 ...................................................................,.... $ 30,425.00
Add first three quarters 1940-41, collected during
1940-4i ·········································································· 54,225.00
Total cash received from fourth quarter 1939-40, and
first three quarters 1940-41 ........................... ~........$ 84,650.00
Add cash received prior years ..........................................
45.00
Total $25.00 initiation tax collected ·····::····--····'························~·-·········-$ 84,6~5.00
Total cash collected for 11asonic Homes and turned over to the
Grand Treasurer ····································-·······························-~·-·····-$194,179.10
Cash received from August 1 to September 30, 1941:
General Fund ...........................:..................$ 88,522.70
Homes maintenance .................................. 48,743.20
Homes building .......................................... 60,929.00
$25.00 Home tax ············-····:······················ 32,000.00
$230,194.90

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

445

Disb'UrsementsAs per Grand Secretary's accounts, expenses and appropriations ................c•••••••••••• ••••••••••••••• ••••••••• ••••••••••••• $110,676.85
Purchase of stocks and bonds:
Bonds ..~......, ..........................................$ 84,957.75
Preferred stocks ·.................................. 58,940.63
143,898.38
Total disbursements .................................................................. 254,575.23
.C ash balance July 31, 1941:
Crocker First National Bank..................................$ 1,280.17
The San Francisco Bank ........................................ 20,645.31
Wells Fargo Bank and Union Trust Co............... 13,482.54
Bank of America ...................................................... 18,265.58
Anglo California National Bank .......................... 2,627.28
$ 56,300.88
Exhibit D
Statement of Assets and Capital Accounts July 31, 1941
Cash:
Assets
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts ........................$ 56,300.88
Grand Secretary's revolving funds:
.
Fund A ..............................:...,..............$500.00
Fund B ................................................ 50.00
550.00
$ 56,850.8!

·Investments (Exhibit E) :
3,000.
6,000.
10,000.
20,000.

~~~ctss : : .".".".".".".".".~."."_-.".".".".".".".-.".".".".":.":."_:.".":.".".".".".":.":.".".":.".".".":.".".":."."."."."."."."."."."."."."."." $!riN~i.·~~
Total book value --·----·---------·-·-----·······--·---·----$552,906:20
Deduct reserve for amortization of bond
premium ...................... ,........................,..................
245.27

Bonds
Railway Equipment & Realty Co., Ltd., 40%, 1949...,
Southern Pacific Railroad Co. 4%, 1955........- ...........:.....,.
Southern Pacific Co. 40%, 1981 ...... ~...............................
U. S. Treasury Bonds 20%, 19S4-52 ..............................

Cost
2,95S.OO
5,S80.00
9,565.00
20,S93.7S

Total bonds -·--'."'•"·-·<>·-···:•·----~·---·---·--··--··--: ......,_; ..........,,..$149,11 S.57
5S2,660.93

Total assets :---..·----··----------..--,-----..·--··---...........;... __________________$609,511.81
Capital Account
Balance July 31, 1940 ..................................................,....:..............: ..··----:$744,063.50
Add excess of ~evenue over expense 1940-1941:
Revenue received:
By Grand Secretary ..................$111,960.32
By Grand Treasufrr .................... 13,025.43 $124,985.75
Less expenses and appropriations ....$110,676.85
Less annual amortization of bond
premiums..........................................
245.27

447

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

446

Stocks
Cost
Shares
200
Coast Counties Gas & Electric Co. pfd., 5% ....................$ 5,400.00
4S
Gulf Power Co., 6 D L pfd., N P V....................................
4,753.13
Kansas P ower & Light Co. pfd., 40% ..............................
5,237.50
33,98S
Masonic Temple Association of San Francisco N P V .... 339,8SO.OO
Ohio Edison Co. pfd., 6% .............,........................................
5,S2S.OO
200
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. first p fd., 50%··...............:......... '5,000.00
200
Rheem Mfg. Co. cumulative pfd., 5% ...,.;..............................
5,000.00
Southern California Gas pfd., 6% . ._....'..............:::......'........,.
6,800.00
200
Southern Indiana Gas pfd., 4.8% . .................:...................... 5,237.50
Southwe.s tern Gas & E lectric Co. pfd., 5%.•:.............:~......
5,462.50
Texas Electric Service Co. 6 D L pfd., N P V..................
5,32S.OO
Tidewater A ssociated Oil 40% D L pfd., N P V ............
4,912.50
Toledo Edison Co. pfd., 5o/o ....................................................
S,287.50

so
so

so
so
so
so
so

110,922.12

.:,'rf!tal s!ocks ...............................,..........,.,........ i , .........., . . . ...$403,7-90,~
Total excess revefiue............7.................................- ......._____
TotaL.........................---·-----·--

00

-·- ·-·· · ·

· - - - , - · - - ' - · · - . . - · . . - · : · · · - - - - - - - -. . - - . .

14,063.63

W iLLJAM P. FrLM~R, Grand TreasHrer.

----------$758, 127.13

Deduct :
Loss on sale of Masonic Temple Association
stock ------------..--.. ---·-··--···--··--·---------······-·"--·-·--.......$150,000.00
Less profit on sales of bonds :.................~...............
1,384.68

Referred to Committee on Segregation.
148,61S.32

Balance July 31, 1941 -------·--··-----·'·-·-···--·--------·---·----.............____________________$609,511.81
Exhibit E
. List of Investments July 31, 1941
$ 5,000.
10,000.
S,000.
10,000.
5,000.
S;OOO.
10,000.
S,000.
S,000.
5,000.
5,000.
3,000.

20,000.
5,000.
S,000.
~~<; S,000. .

Bonds
Cost
Central Main Power Co. 3Y.%, 1970 ...:.....................::..:$ 5,475.00
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. :4%, 1949--·---·-----·· 9,350.00
S,412.SO
El Paso (Texas) Electric Co. 3~% . 1970..........:.............
Fontana Union Water Co. 4%, 1946 .............................. 10,489.00
Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District 4 ~ %,
1962-3-7 ................................................................................ 5,120.S7
Imperial County Highway 5%, 1943 ..............................
5,125.00
Metropolitan Water District 4%, 1980 ......................:... 11,312.25
Nevada California Electric Co. 5%, 19S6 ..........---·---··-·· 4,637.50
New York Water Service Corp. S%, 19Sl ..:................. 5,07S.OO
Northern Penn. Gas Co. 5Y.% , 1957 ................................ 5,212.SO
O'Far~ell & Stockton Realty C0 . 50 %, 1952. ................
4,775.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. Series "G" 4%, 1964---····----· 3,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. Series "H" 3 ~% , 1961........ · 21,SOO.OO
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. Series "J" 3%, 1970.........,....
5,087.50
4,812.50
P<i~fi~ ·;Power & Light 5%, 1955 ......................................
Portland General Electric Co. 4Y. %, 1960 ....................
4,037.SO

-;

t ••

,.,.

448

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The ruthless hand of unkind Fate and the indulgence of your Most
Worshipful Grand Master qave permitted me, for a few short months, to
serve this Fraternity as Gdnd Lecturer. The price for this privilege has
been greatly excessive, for we all appreciated, loved, and revered our dear
friend and brother, Walter Leonard. It is not my thought here to attempt,
nor within my capacity here properly, to eulogize him, who, before me,
served so well and truly with distinction in this office. The Grand Lodge,
in proper season and in due form, will officially and appropriately · mark
his passing. Rather must I stand before you in his stead, and, within my
limits, ,make this report which otherwise would have been so aptly made
by hinl.
•
In the short period of time since the 15th day of April, 1941, it has been
possible for me to accept but a few of the numerous kind invitations which
the brethren of the various· Lodges have extepded, but permit me here to say
that I am exceedingly appreciative of their thoughtfulness, their offers of
assistance and cooperation, and their expressions of congratulations and
best wishes.
From the very few visitations which I have been able to make, from
my conferences and correspondence with the Assistant Grand Lecturers,
from Brother Leonard's records and files, and from the formal constitutional
reports made by the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts, I am here
able to assure the Grand Lodge of California that the high standard of
ritualistic perfection which for years has prevailed in this Jurisdiction
fa not only being maintained, but is being further extended; that the officers
of the respective Lodges, and all of them, duly regard the importance
of ritualistic precision and each constantly strives to perfect his own work.
I commend to your particular attention the zeal and untiring effort of
all the Inspectors, who, so assiduously, have taught and are teaching the
ritual of Grand Lodge to the ever-changing succession of officers of the
several Masonic Lodges, and otherwise supervising the Masonic activities
within their several districts.
The policy of instruction which emphasizes not only the perfecti'on of
word and expression, but also explains the meaning behind the words, the
historical background, and the reasons for each particular ceremony is,
through their hands, bearing good fruit and producing in California a more
intelligent Masonry and a more complete understanding among the Craft
of its finer meanings. .
"By way of constructive suggestion, which through the written word,
I hope, will reach all members of the Craft, I desire to make four observations :
Fit:st: The ceremonies of the several degrees are not alone for the benefit of the candidate of the particular occasion, but are also intended to contribute to the enlightenment of the members of the Craft in attendance. No
portion of the work should be performed in complete darkness, or in a light
so dim that the brethren cannot see and appreciate the dramatic expression
of movement as well as hear the inflection of the spoken word.
Second: Never, at any time, should the brethren lose sight of the
serious formality of the entire ceremony. A portion of our Third Degree
includes a form which alludes to one of the oldest known initiatory rites
.and also symbolizes a very important event in the history of the human

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

449

race. Any lightness of atmosphere within the Lodge room during that
portion of the degree is sure to defeat the purpose we have in mind, to
detract from the impression which we seek to make upon the candidate,
and to affect adversely his attitude toward the fraternity and the basic
teachings which we seek to inculcate into his very existence.
Third: By resolution of Grand Lodge passed in a season when candidates were unusually numerous, it was made permissible to omit from
the lecture of the First Degree a portion of the Monitorial work. It
seems to be the general practice of Lodges working in and near the larger
cities always to take advantage of this privilege. On the other hand, the
rural Lodges almost universally deliver the whole lecture. I am unwilling
to admit that our city brethren are less capable, less industrious, or less
zealous, than the other members of the Craft. My personal view is that
in the First Degree the candidate receives a deep and lasting impression
of the Craft and its teachings. First impressions are persuasive and tenacious. A · thoughtful candidate can, and does, receive much more to think
about when th e full lecture is delivered. I commend to the Masters of the
several Lodges of this Jurisdiction the thought that only in those cases
where there has been an over-abundance of work during the particular
evening should this privilege of omission be exercised and the candidate
be referred nonchalantly to the Monitor for further instructions.
Fo11rth: Masters of Lodges should insist that the Inspector of the
District, on his official visit to the Lodge, be received with Grand Honors.
We all know that there is a certain inherent modesty in every man-even
in lnspectors--and it is to be expected that if an Inspector is given any
choice in the matter, he will forego the formal reception. We must not,
however, lose sight of the fact that the honors are being paid to the office,
as well as to the office holder, and that, on his official visit, the Inspector
of the District comes as a direct representative of the Grand Master.
Under such circumstances, reception with Grand Honors is not optional.
This is not only the proper procedure, but it will have the further practical
advantage of familiarizing all Lodges with the form of reception so that
when the Grand Master, or some other Grand Lodge Officer coming under
circumstances entitling him to formal reception, does arrive, the ceremony
will then be conducted with the same perfection of word and form as
graces our other work.
L.o oking ahead, let me observe that the Ritual Committee hopes to
provide, at an early date, a check chart for the Inspectors of the' several
Masonic Districts which will serve them as a guide of inspection in supervising the Lodges under their jurisdiction. This chart will relate to those
matters of Lodge business, operation and management, other than the ritual
which properly should receive the particular attention of the Inspector'
and will also ser ve as a basis for the constitutional r eports which th~
Inspectors annually make to the Grand Master and the Grand Lecturer.
It is not intended that every matter covered in the chart should be reported
to Grand Lodge. Rather it is contemplated that where an Inspector following the lines indicated in the chart, discovers methods of oper~tion
and management which are particularly meritorious, or faults requiring
specia.l attention, then such matters shall be included in the annual constitutional reports, together with his comments and recommendations in
relation thereto.
In recommending the use of these charts, it is not our purpose to
pry unduly into Lodge affairs, but rather to attain uniform inspection and
to assist each particular Lodge in its operative problems. More particularly, it. is hoped, through the reporting system based thereon, to give the
Fraternity as a whole the benefit of the individual Lodge's experience in

PROCEED.I NGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE ·OF' CALIFORNIA

solving special or unusual .problems. Thus; the other Lodges will not be
compelled to pursue a trial and error method when difficult situations
· arise and, at the same time; when required, Grand Lodge experience and
assistance will be immediately available.
Finally, let me report that the Ritual Committee has in ·preparation
a revision of the present Monitor and Officers' Manual. I beg of you, be
not perturbed by this statement, for the items of revision consist only of
minor matters. The changing of' a word to conform to the original text
where a quotation is involved; the crediting of quotation by inclusion of
quotation marks and citation references; the capitalizing of the initial
letter of all words referring to the Deity, and such other minor matters
which are merely perfecting the typographical set-up of the imprinting.
Further, in order to clarify the intended form to be followed, there have
been a few changes of words in the directional and explanatory notations
which are not a part of the ritualistic work. These do not require action
of Grand Lodge, but are here noted for your information.
I do have another matter in relation to the Officers' Manual which
should receive your special attention, but likewise it does not require
formal action of Grand Lodge. By resolution passed in 1927 the Grand
Lodge directed that the flag of the United States shall be presented at
the altar by the Marshal and be received in the manner prescribed by the
Grand Lecturer. The word form of a nationally used "Pledge to Our
Flag" was included as a part of that ceremony. Since that time a civilian
custom of gestures to accompany the pledge has come into arm·o st universal
use ih this country, which custom is somewhat at variance with ciili" form.
This is a day when the enemies of Democracy, by ev~ry device kno:.Vl)
to knaves, are attempting to disrupt a.n d confus.e the peoples of the . world
who believe that the State exists solely to protect the liberties of the
individuals. ·There is properly much honest difference of opinion in a
Democracy,· but there are now entirely too many professionally induced
differences and customs. A slight change in our flag ce'r emony to make
it conform to the now almost universal national civilian form is a step-a
small step, but, nevertheless, an important step, toward that national unity
of thought, purpose ·aria action so essentially necessary to preserve in
these times 1 the liberties of a free people. The extended arm salutation
long used by a national patriotic organization, but which now so closely
resembles, and suggests to the popular mind, a dictator's salute, h'a s been
purposely omitted. This seems to be the latest and presently most accepted form. The Ritual Committee deems the omission to _be more ' in
keeping with democratic ideals, and that the amended form, with this
explanation, will be more acceptable to the Craft.
The language of the ceremony as used by the Marshal at the Altar is
also to be amended to read : "Worshipful Master: I have the honor to
present, etc." .as this wording is a more dignified statement than that now
in use, and, in the interests of uniformity, the same phrase is to be substituted in the 'language of thP. Grand Master's reception. I commend
these amendments directly to the brethren as no Grand Lodge action is
required, neith_e r wording having been ever adopted by action of Gran<!
Lodge. In the absence of the Grand Lodge, at this comm uni~ation,
making forma l objection to this improvement in the two ceremonies as
reported here, the Ritual Committee will order the adoption of the new
Monitor and O_fficers' Manual will be imprinted · accordingly.
I cannot .close without a special remark of appreciation to the brethren
in the several .Districts in the northeasterly part of our State for the many
courtesies exte~ded on my recent travels with the Most Worshipful Grand

Master and Very Worshipful Grand Secretary. The warmth of our reception; the continuous and meticulous attention. to our every comf9rt and
pleasure, and the true friendships established will linger long in the garden
of my memory.
Permit me in closing to thank publicly the Most Worshipful Grand
Master for the honor which he has conferred upon me and for the privilege, during this brief period, of serving our beloved Fraternity. To the
members of the' Craft-all-Greetings and Salutations! And to the multitude of worthy toilers who have assisted me in the discharge of this privilege and duty, my eternal thanks.
Most Worshipful Grand Master: To the Most Worshipfui Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, I respectfully submit this report and move its adoption.
CHESTER H. WARLOW,

450

451

Grand Lecturer.

. Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
Finance Committee, and a Special Ritual Committee con~isting
of Joseph S. Greenley, Edward T, Koford, and Osbuern McCraw.
At 12 :40 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 o'clock
this afternoon.

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

453

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We recommend that said Report be segregated and referred to the
following Committees:

3Jn ~ranb JLobge

To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. All resolutions providing for Life Membership.
2. All Dispensations issued during the current Masonic year.

AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 14, 1941.
Grand Lodge was q.lled on at 2 :00 o'clock P. M. , the . Grand
Master presiding.
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the M.'. W:. Grand Lodge of California.:
The Message of the Most Worshipful Grand Master ha~ been referred
to this Committee for purposes of segregation and your Committee respec~fully reports as follows:
We recommend that said Message be segregated· and referred to the
following Committees:
·
To the Committee on J urisprudence :
1. All decisions of the Grand Master, numbered

To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. All unfinished business consisting of:
(a) Resolution by Past Grand Master Adams changing method
of amending Constitution, Regulations and Uniform Code
of By-laws.
(b) Resolution by Past Master Russell C. Horstmann, and
others, concerning Masonic Employment Service pamphlets.
To the Committee on Grivances :
1. All trial records.
To the Committee on By-laws:
1. All amendments to By-laws.
To the Committee on Necrology :
1. Death of Very Worshipful John Whicher.
Fraternally submitted,

to 6 inclusive.

To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
l. The suggestion relative to George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association.
2. The subject of Courtesy Degrees during the National Emergency.
3. Emergency Welfare work for Masons in Armed forces.
4. Recommendations of the Grand Master concerning Life Memberships and Financing Building Projects.
To the Committee on Necrology:
I. Deaths of members which have occurred during current Masonic year.
To the Directors of Masonic Clubhouses:
I. Recommendation concerning operation of Masonic Clubhouses
at Berkeley and Los Angeles.

In conclusion, permit us to say that our Grand Master has told you
about his far flung travels and efforts but he failed to tell you that in his
numerous addresses to the Craft and as Orator of the day at Washington's
Tomb he acquitted himself with the credit that has always followed and
still follows the fair-haired boy from San Francisco. His tasks have been
arduous but he has come through looking not worse but better for the
wear. He has been able to do this because of his agility, hi"s youth, his
faithfulness, and his intellect.

Adopted.
The Report of the Grand Secretary was also referred to this Committee and it reports thereon as follows:

JOHN R. MOORE,
CHAS. HOGAN,

W. I. KOHNKE,

Committee.

The report was adopted.

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL ORATION
(by HENRY C. CLAUSEN, Grand Orator)
OCTOBER 14, 1941

"Toward Greater Masonic Action"

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Distinguished Past Grand Masters,
My Fellow Grand Lodge Officers and Brethren :
Your enthusiastic introduction makes me feel almost as I did when
a nervous tiler in a northern Lodge introduced me as the Grand Architect
of the Universe!
·
About two hundred and twenty years ago, the Mother Grand Lodge
of London adopted a General Regulation which read, "at all annual communications a brother selected by the Grand Master shall harangue the
brethren and give them good advice." I am now supposed to follow that
ancient charge. You may be thankful, though, that Grand Orators are
like fleeting stars. They shine forth officially from the firmanent of
Masonry briefly, and but once a year. So I suggest you sink deeply into
your chairs and relax, for this fleeting star will soon sink over the horizon.
It has been my good fortune this past year to have had the opportunity
of serving you. For this I am indebted to our Grand Master. To you,
Brother Lloyd, I express my very real thanks.
I suppose every Grand Lodge Oration given anywhere this year will
discuss the dictators and this disjointed world. I wish there was a way
oi talking about something else. But, as one wit remarked: "These dictators and their wars : If you take them seriously, they will drive you crazy.
If you don't take them seriously, you are crazy."
Whether we like it or not, we must think about a world gone mad with
bombs, bullets, and bayonets. And as Masons, we must consider some of
the larger aspects.
Similarity of Our Times
Th<;:re is a similarity, almost twin-like, between the times of today and
the times out of which speculative Masonry sprang. Then, as now, the
British Isles were beset by confusion. Then, as now, the press made an
indelible impact upon the mind. Then, as now, intolerance was in the air.
Then, as now, bloody wars were being waged. Truly, the spiritual flame
flickered feebly.
It was out of the travail of these times that speculative Masonry
was born.
On June 24, 1717, four London Lodges met to celebrate the Feast of
Saint John the Baptist. Among the members were those thinkers who
had sought a light for the darkness of their day. They decided to constitute a Grand Lodge of London. From this point they abandoned "operative"
Masonry and organized for the growth of "speculative" Masonry. Thus
was found a nucleus for unity, a focal point, a rallying place which had
been sought for a spiritual upsurge. Masonry was enthusiastically launched
into the world. The world, in turn, seemed ready for the civilizing force
of Masonry.
Civilizing Force of Masonry
A great intellectual and moral revolution was thereby in the making.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

455

While Masonry zealously refrained from interference in politics, still its
basic teachings and idea of human equality so expanded in the minds of men
that reforms were automatically advanced in opposition to the established
order of heredity, the so-called divine rights of Kings, inequality, and a
dogmatic church. Throughout the craft there grew a strong will to liberty.
Men began expressing in words that which before they had even hardly
dared to vision. The human mind, propelled by a new-born desire for
freedom, finally was emerging victorious from a death-like struggle in the
field of ideas. This liberation, as well as the moral regeneration of the .
people, was accomplished throught the social force and directive power
of Masonry.
The alert student of history will also see here a starting point from
which came our American concept of a free mankind. For, as the importance, prestige and power of the Mother Grand Lodge of London
grew, Masonry spread rapidly over the world. And wherever Masonry
penetrated, the new freedom followed. The constant result was a step
forward in mental activity-immense progress toward an emancipation
of the human mind. Hence, when Masonry arrived in America, it was but
natural that she should come clad in the robes of freedom. Then, through
the initiative of our Colonial Masons, the wh,ole world was pointed toward
a liberalistic age. ,
It was no accident, brethren, that one of our greatest American
gains, stemming from a Masonic concept, was the release of man from any
dogmatic, dictatorial church . No matter what religious faith you profess,
you can thank our Colonial brethren that a separation of church and state
was firmly bolted and riveted. down into our Constitution.
Masonry Today
You might now feel like saying to me: "It is all very well and even
inspiring to sing hosannas of praise for what Masonry has done in the
past. We tingle with pride when we hear the heroic names. We thrill with
emotion when we see the many romantic pictures in our gallery of Masonic
memories. But those are old stories. We cannot live in the past. We are
living now in a so-called modern, fast-moving, scientific age. Look to
this world of ours and see the mighty armies of warring nations locked
again in a fight to death. Look to our craft abroad and see our Lodges
that have been brutally blacked out. Look to our craft in America and
see our membership rolls showing that we are numerically on a decline.
Look to the writings of our men of great intellect who tell us there is
danger that our civilization may eventually be killed by our civilization.
Then you tell us, how can Masonry justify its existence in this transformed,
troubled world? Should we streamline and adjust Masonry to the changing
times? What can we do as Masons living in this age?"
I don't profess to have any magic secret nor do I presume to preach.
I am not like the visiting gentleman from Georgia at the colored church,
whom the colored clergyman introduced with these words, "The speaker of
the day knows the unknowable, he can do the undoable, and he will unscrew
the unscrutable."
My most immediate answer to your acute questions, though, would
be that every age is modern to those living in it. Every age also accumulates a useful backlog of lessons. And all ages are the same when we consider that the moral precepts of Masonry ever were and ever will be.
Froude, in his essay on the Science of History put it aptly when he said:
"Opinions alter, manners change, creeds rise and fall, but
the moral law is written upon the tablets of eternity."

456

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our fundamental human problems remain the same in all ages. The
yearning of mankind for happiness, for friendship and fraternalism for
justice, truth and virtue has been constant. It has been repeatedly expr~ssed
in the teachings of men of religion, the speeches of Demosthenes, the letters
of Cicero and Montaigne. Finally, it was crystallized into the sentiments
of Freemasonry.
Of course we should not stand still, on the means of applying Freemasonry. Of course we should be creative, on the means of applying
. Freemasonry. Of course we must move ahead, on the means of applying
Freemasonry. As a celebrated Danish author said, "Life can only be understood backwards, but must be lived forwards."
But the means of Masonry should not be confused with the end of
Masonry. Our compelling function, always, is to resist any innovations
which would be destructive of the end of Masonry. Our Lodges, pins
degrees, buildings, homes and charities are but the roots· Masonry itself
is the fruit.
'
Need for Active Masonry
It was Horace who said wisely, "All virtue is a struggle; life is not
a scene of repose, but of energetic action."
Brethren, a mere passive admiration for the sublimity and inherent
goodness of Masonry will not suffice today. We need an active constructive
a P!actical way of applying Masonry! We need increased, gr~ater Masoni~
action! We need the kind of Masonic action that was exemplified in the
lives of our Colonial Masons. We need the kind of Masonic action that
has been uniformly exemplified in the lives of our Past Grand Masters
and in the life of our Grand Master, they who have given so generously
of their time that we might be the richer through their guidance. We need
the kind of Masonic action which was exemplified in the life of the late
and beloved John Whicher, he of saintly Masonic memory. We need the
kind of action that will result in another living, vibrant, enthusiastic, upsurge of Masonic force!
What we should think about is, "How are we going to do this? What
are we going to do?" A great psychologist said that when we are faced
with a difficult problem, the start is half the solution. We can all start
increased Masonic action in several simple ways.
,Follow the Guide of Grand Lodge
Grand Lodge is the nerve center from which active impulses can
radiate to and from each Lodge and member Mason. You can deaden the
nerve line running to you by the narcotic effects of indifference and apathy;
or you can use it for energizing your manpower into channels of action.
Study . and put into practice the recommendations of your Grand Lodge
committees and of your Grand Master. It would help even if you were
like the young lady of whom the bishop asked whether she followed the
ten commandments. She said,· "I can't say that I follow them but they
do give me a lot of good· ideas." Get some ideas from the annu'al address
of your Grand Master. He is the voice of Grand Lodge. He speaks to
you and for you. With your help he can speak louder and ~ay more.
Make Known the Real Meaning and Mission of Masonry .
Everett B. Clinchy, president. of the conference comprising ] ews,
Protestants and Catholics, a few years ago wrote an extraordinary book
called "All .in the Name of God." He analyzed the recurrent anti-Masonic,
anti-Catholic and anti-racial movements. It all sums up to this-the movements arise from fear. Those who do not know are afraid. They suspect

457

the so-called secrecy and mystery. Quoting from his book, Dr. Clinchy
said:
"The strength of the anti-Masonic society that flourished in
this period lay in the dread among those of native stock of the
mystery and secrecy of· Masonry that was suspected of concealing a
threat to American institutions. Both Masons and Catholics either
lacked the ability, or disdained to take pains to allay these unnecessary suspicions."
You remember we recently laughed at the lengths to which some will
go in fostering this fear. An example in point was Goebbel's ridiculous
"expose" of a photograph showing President Franklin D. Roosevelt with
his sons and Mayor La Guardia, dressed in Masonic regalia, sitting in a
Masonic Lodge. And just a few weeks ago we read again how Petain, the
would-be dictator, laid all the ills of France at the doors of Freemasonry.
The consequent thinking which goes on in the minds of some people
is like the speech of a recent refugee from Europe. He spoke perfect
English but in between his words he whistled and hissed. Someone asked
him why he did this. He replied, "I learned to speak English by listening
on the short wave radio." There is a great deal of "whistling" and "hissing"
in the thinking of some people about Masonry.
Brethren, as Masons, we have a responsibility to safeguard ourselves.
Of course, we should not be driven by a spirit of exasperation to the use
of counteracting methods which would be as foolish as the attacks leveled
against us. We must conduct ourselves with patience, dignity and reserve.
But we. can firmly show that we do have the ability and . will take the
pains to allay unnecessary suspicions. Examples in point of effective and
proper counteracting methods will be found in how the Grand Lodge of
the Philippines jurisdiction stopped anti-Masonic radio broadcasts, and
how the Swiss Masons prevented the passage of anti-Masonic legislation.
Let's make known what is meant by Masonic secrecy; that a few
years ago the Mother Grand Lodge of London issued this statement,
"There is no secret with regard to any of the basic principles of Freen1asonry."
Let's make known that Masonry is non-partisan; that we know any
intrusion by us into the arena of partisan politics would be the eventual
death of our institution, like dying of drinking too deeply of the fountain
of youth.
Let's make known that Masonry is tolerant of all creeds, all races
and all religions; that we say:
"Let pridish priests do battle with creeds,
That church is mine that does most Godlike deeds."
Let's make known that Masonry has no bars because of position in
life; that true equality exists under the square and compass.
Let us make known that Masonry conceals no threat to American
institutions but that on the contrary American institutions owe their very
life to American Masons. We can stand for the free way of life. Do you
remember that inspiring passage in a Greek drama written over 2000
years ago? One of the characters put this question : "Who is the shepherd
over you, and the lord of your host?" The chorus thundered back, "Of
no man are we called the slaves or subjects." That democracy for which
they felt such a passionate devotion was later preached by Christ. Then, like
a river of. gold flowing on through centuries, that ideal has come down to
us as our priceless inheritance.
The fundamentals of Masonry have never prevented individual action

459

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR="IA

by Masons within the orbit of good citizenship. On the contrary our individualistic concept calls for individual action. Masonic strength lies in
the realm of each individual's action. "The strength of the wolf is in the
pack, and the strength of the pack is in the wolf."
Many, many years ago there also lived a powerful, a cruel and .a doublecrossing dictator, Xerxes, King of the Persians. He sent an emissary to
Athens, seeking an alliance and offering a territorial bribe. That system
of strategy is old as the hills. But the free Athenians replied, "Tell Mardonius that Athens says 'So long as the sun keeps the path where now he
goeth, never shall we make compact with Xerxes; but we shall go forth
to do battle with him, putting our trust in the God who fights for us and
in the mighty dead, whose dwelling places and holy things he hath condemned and burned with fire.'"
In the same spirit say we to all foes of freedom, never shall we make
compact with alien forces of aggression! Never shall we permit the intrusion
of their false philosophies into our way of living! But we shall stand
steady, strong, and united. We shall insist upon a continuance of the
Masonic doctrine of equality and unity. We have no place in these United
States for any man or group who would tear us apart through demonstrations of racial or religious hatreds!
Let's make known why the Masons abroad have been persecuted.
I refer to the Masonry which we recognize. Goebbels, Minister of Propaganda for Germany, gives the reason quickly. In 1933 he declared:
"The conception of spiritual freedom is contrary to the supreme
authority of the leader. There is no other truth .'"
·
Following this declaration, an order was issued on May 11, 1933 for
the destruction of 20,000 books at a public bonfire in Berlin. Significantly,
the first book thrown upon this heap was the Bible.
Masonry and Masons immediately collide with such a concept. Like
oil and water, the two cannot mix. The two ways of life are irreconcilable.
We say that the cosmic importance of man transcends any mere manmade state. We stand for the emergence of man as an individual, for the
emancipation of the human mind, for morality in action throughout ~ur
daily lives. There we blow the bugle and draw the issue.
As a result our European brethren have· suffered a crushing defeat
for their way of life. They have been mistreated, their Lodges closed, their
property confiscated, their leaders killed.
We can say to the world, "Go to that symbolic figure who holds the
scales of justice with equal poise; lay before her the men who have oppressed
our brethren, armoured (IS they are with steel and iron, riding with 11
cavalry of hate over the bodies of their prostrate victims. Show her the
sack of cities, the burning and bombing of innocent men, women and little
ones, the people· made miserable all over the earth. When she is under
the impact of this view, follow these diabolical men into the dark rooms
where they plot their plans, hear them scheme to steal country after country,
to rule by force and fear, to snatch from the faithful every vestige of their
spiritual and temporal freedom. When she has tired of this prospect, show
her the men of Masonry, working without any bloody war, without any
fabulous hero, without any Trojan horse. See plain men who use plain
means for lifting man into a contemplation of his own exalted soul, leading
toward a liberation of the human mind, unfolding a priceless philosophy
of life, keeping in view always the higher meaning of immortality. Then
ask her, 'Which of these do you choose?'" But the answer is easify made.
The same ideas, the same emotions must have passed through the

mind of one who in his day was heralded as a hero-patriot, one who in later
days was universally acclaimed the sage of America, _that Master Ma~on
of deathless fame George Washington. Writing to his brethren of Kmg
David Lodge at Newport in 1790, he was inspired to express his opi.nion
of Masonry in these words:
"Being persuaded that a just application of the principles upon
which the Masonic Fraternity is founded must be promotive of
private virtue and public prosperity, I shall always be happy to
advance the interests of the Society, and to be considered by them
a deserving brother."
Let us stretch forth a helping hand to our oppressed brethren abroad
and say to them with Emerson, "The hour may be against us, but the
centuries are for us." Let us make known to them that we do feel for
them, that we do stand by them, and that while their hands are tied, we
will fight the good battle for them.

458

Make Our Lives Exemplify Masonic Teachings
Napoleon at one time thought he was a great and lasti?g conqueror.
Later, iii exile at St. Helena, he told the truth when he sa1~: "The only
conquests that are permanent are those we make of ourselves. He should
have known.
Masonry is not a mass gift; it is an individual _conquest. It canno_t be
be conferred; it must be acquired. Merely walkmg through the ritual
never made a Mason. We must regenerate and refresh ourselves each day,
like the. manna the Israelites found in the wilderness. We are rewarded
in direct proportion as we live the Masonic philosophy of life.
The world also judges our institution by the character of its members.
We should so act · that others may say, "Masons revere God, they pay
their bills, they are gentlemen, they are moral, clean-minded and friendly."
Shakespeare wrote the simple rule :
"To thine own self be true,
And it must follow as the night the day.
Thou canst not then be false to any man."
We are told in the holy writings, "Let us hold fast the profe~sio~ of
our faith without wavering.'' Brethren, would you out-distance this mght
of the world despair? Then hold fast to your Masonic faith. Would you unlock a priceless philosophy of life? Then, my brethren, hold fast ,to Y?Ur
Masonic faith. Would you touch a brother's hand, hear a brothers v01ce,
know what is meant by Masonic friendship whenever you go around the
globe? Then, my brethren, hold fast to your Masonic faith.
Make Masonry Live and Grow
Back in the days of Mohammed the Prophet, people had great respe~t
for horses. Those with outstanding intelligence were selecte? for use. m
warfare and were trained to follow the bugle in battle. Havmg occas10n
to acquire some horses for himself, the great prophet went to a famous farm
to make some personal selections. He ordered all the horses pastured
next to a river but fenced off and unwatered for three days. At the end
of three days the bars were let down. The horses rushed i_n a mad body
to quench their thirst. Just as they were about to plunge mto the water
the . war bugle sounded. Of that great number, only ten answered the
call. The ten were then chosen as the beginning of the famous "Prophet
Breed" of Arabian horses.
Masonry also uses a wise and selective process for enrollment of its

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNfA

members. But greater Masonic action will automatically result in an attraction of suitable new material. Thus will follow an ever-increasins:
fl.ow of that social force and directive power so sorely needed today. While
the principles of Masonry are eternal, ever were and ever will be, still
Masonic Lodges require strength and stamina through active members.
Masonic action will result in Masonic growth .

world. We. say with ho.p e and high confidence, that when history shall
have passed her stern sentence on those er~ing men '."ho have oppressed
our brethren and beset this world with stnfe, Masonic Lodges will continue to exemplify the spirit of courage, the brotherhood of man and the
fatherhood of God. V\Te say with hope and high confidence that Ma.sonry
will fulfill mankind's hope for the emergence of leaders of whom, hke of
the leaders of the Renaissance, it will be said : "The dazzling ligqt of
their genius shines on through the centuries, showing future ages what
man can be and what man can do."
Brethren! Now is the time for us to act-act to follow the guide of
Grand Lodge-act to make known the real meaning and mission of Masonry
-act to make our lives exemplify our Masonic teachings-act to make
Masonry live and grow! Thus, we shall enjoy and move toward greater
Masonic action!

What of Our Future?
In the olden days the watchman of the night would walk the watch
towers of the town. In times of danger the people would ask, "Watchman,
what of the night?" Today we ask of those on the higher watch towers
of Masonry, "What of our future?"
Experience has shown that the fundamental and simple reason for the
breakdown of our way of life elsewhere in the world has been a lack of
able, courageous and constructive leadership. There has been a woeful
want of moral as well as political leadership. The whole world literally
cries out for leaders.
Some years ago a party of explorers, driven by a west wind from the
Amazon River far out to sea, were dying .o f thirst. They had been without
water for days. Drifting they suffered the tortures of the damned. At
last a ship came into sight. They signalled frantically for water. 'The
captain of the ship signalled back, "Let down your buckets. There is
fresh water all around you." They did not know that the Amazon River
remains fresh for more than a hundred miles out to sea.
In much the same way, the moral leadership for which the world cries
out is just as available. Surely Masonry has proved itself a fountain source
of" inspiration for leadership. Where else in the world today is there an
organization dedicated to moral uplift which includes every creed, religion,
and race? Who but the Masons have adhered more firmly to the faith of
their fathers and shown more patriotism? Where then, but from the ranks
of Masonry, can there come such leaders?
As Masons have always championed the emergence of man, so from
the ranks of Masonry have there come leaders of mankind. Masons abroad
have been the champions of democracy : Bolivar, South American liberator ;
Goethe, German poet ; Mozart, Austrian composer; Lafayette, French
patriot; Kossuth, Hungarian patriot ; Garibaldi, Italian patriot. They were
not only men in the forefront of movements for freedom, but all were also
Master Masons.
It was no accident that in early America the stirring words, "Give me
liberty or give me death " echoed the thoughts of Master Masons. It was
no accident that when Paul Revere made his historic ride, he was spurred
on by the heart of a Master Mason. It was no accident that most of
the pens from which fl.owed the immortal words of the Declaration of
Independence were those of Master Masons. It was no accident that the
Masonic doctrine of equality of man was indelibly written into our constitution by Masonic hands, directed by Masonic minds.
Down to the present in the United States we have had twelve presidents,
fourteen vice-presidents, outstanding statesmen and soldiers, leaders of
business and science, leaders of labor and letters, leaders of bench and
bar, men of great and important affairs, all of whom also knelt at our shrine
as humble Master Masons.
Looking toward the boundless future, therefore, we lift up our eyes
from the darkness of the day to that letter "G" still shining brightly in
the East and we are then ourselves uplifted. We say with hope and high
confidence, that Masonry will again light the way for an awakening

461

On motion of Past Grand Master Burke, the Grand Secretary
was instructed to have the Oration printed in pamphlet form
and a copy distributed to each Lodge in the Jurisdiction.
Reference to Unfinished Busines;; and Advance Information
The resolution of Chas. Albert Adams, Past Grand Master,
was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence. The resolution
of Russell C. Horstmann was referred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes, the Board of Control and the Financ.e Committee. Resolution presented by the Committee on Masonic Publications was referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes. The resolution presented with reference to the publication
of suspensions, restorations and rejections, was referred to. the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Committee
on Finance. The resolution proposing a change in the Life 1!embership regulations was referred to the Jurisprudence Committee.
The two resolutions with relation to the Endowment Fund were
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
the Finance Committee.

462

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

463

until at the end of the last fi scal year we had only 119, or a decrease of
35 per cent in thirteen years.

ANNUAL REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present the
forty-ninth annual report for the year ending July 31, 1941 together with
the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes, and the financial reports
of the Secretary and Treasurer.
The Board met on October 11, 1940 on the adjournment of Grand
Lodge, and organized by the election of officers as follows:
Charles M. Wollenberg, (term expires 1942) President.
James B. Gist, (term expires 1943) Vice-President.
The other members present were :
Samuel E . Burke ( term expires . 1944).
Chas. Albert Adams (term etcpires 1941 ) .
Frank M. Smith , Deputy Grand Master.
Leslie E. Wood, Senior Grand Warden.
Claude H. Morrison, Junior Grand Warden.
John Whicher, who as Grand Secretary acts as Secretary of the Homes.
Population Trends

Deco to
300
1931.............................. 326
1932............................ :. 341
1933.... :......................... 359
1934•••v-••oo•••••••••oo•••oo••" 368
1935.............................. 363
1936.............................. 352
1937 .............................. 352
1938.......... ~...... ..... . ...... 345
1939.............................. 348
1940.............................. 324

Decoto Home

Men Women T otal
142
Residents September 1, 1940 .............................................. 182
324
34
Admitted _...............,.................................................................
16
18
17
Died or withdrawn ........................................... - ...... ,,........... · 41
58
Residents August 31 , 1941 .................................................. 157
143
300

Covina Home
Residents September 1, 1940 ..............................................
Admitted ..................................................................................
Departed ..................................................................................
Residents August 31 , 1941 ..................................................

Boys
89
9
24
74

Girls
45
4

9
40

Total
134
13
33
114

Per Capita Cost
Statement of per capita costs (statistical) for the fi scal year
ending July 31, 1941
Decoto Home, 1941-

The•Trustees have · given special attention to the population trends
oi our two Homes. The following table shows the average membership of
each Home for the last eleven years.
·
19~0.... . . . . . . ... ..................

Number of Residents as of August 31, 1941

Covina
175
152
168
176
155
159
156
148
153
143
134

Our opinion is that the Decoto Home membership will remain about
as at present, and therefore will show no serious problem due to shifting
members. We have been murb concerned, however, on account of the
decrease in population at Covina, with inevitable increase in per capita cost.
We regret that fulles t use is not being made of the splendid facilities which
throug h the years have been developed there.
Our concern has caused us to make a special study of this problem.
During the past year there was a net loss of 17 children in membership of
the Covina Home. The maximum number of children in the Home, 183,
was reached in 1928; si nce that time there has been a gradual decrease

Cost of maintenance ....... :..........:.................'....................................::.........$126;138.31
Average number of residents..................................................................
314
Average operating cost per month ........................................................ 10,513.19
Average cost per day ............ ,...................................................................
345.59
Average cost per resident per year ........................................................
401.71
Average cost per resident per month ....................................................
33.48
Average cost per resident per day ..........................................................
1.11
Average number of employees ................................................................
53
The maintenance cost includes general maintenance, hospital, farm,
laundry, payroll and general expense, less dir.e ct revenue, farm produce
consume d and sundry revenues.
Covina Home, 1941Cost of maintenance :........................c................................................. , .......$108,262.58
Average number of residents .................................................................,
129
Average operating cost per month .....................................,..................
9,021.88
Average cost pet day ..................................................................................
296.61
Average cost per child per year ............................................................
839.24
Average cost per child per month ............................................... -.......
69.94
Average cost per child per day ................- ................................,............
2.30
Average number of employees .: ....................:-··········
31
00 • • • • • • •

. . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. ., . . .

The maintenance cost includes care of children, administration expense,
farm expense, less .farm produce consum~.d and .s old outside, miscellaneous
credits appertaining to the direct maintenance of the Home.

PROCEEDINGS OF TH)!;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Experience. of Other Homes
We recently sent a questionnaire to every other Masonic Children's
Horne in th e United States, as to their population trend. We find that they
have all experienced a drop, in most cases greater than ours. Their combined enrollment shows a decrease of 45% from peak figures, which in
various Hornes were reached between 1931 and 1935.

properties in fir st class condition and feel that funds spent for repairs,
painting, etc., as' a good investment. The appearance of our buildings speak
for themselves. ·

Our questionnaire made inquiry as to what were regarded as the
causes for decreasing numbers. Strangely enough the consensus of opinion
seems to be that the largest factor is the recent financial depression. The
depression caused a falling birth rate; school enrollments in the United States
are now two million less than ten years ago. A second result of the depression was a decrease in Masonic membership, those first to drop out
being borderline economic cas ~s whose children would have become wards
of Masonic charity. The third cause connected with the depression is the
· unprecedented expenditure of public funds for charity, part of which went
to relieve families whose children otherwise would have come to us.

Covina: Dishwashing machine, steam cooker, corrected plumbing installations, installed inter-communicating telephone system, installed boiler
feed pumps and installed celotex in ceiling of kitchen.

464

Another cause, not connected with the depression, has undoubtedly
contributed to lessened enrollment in all children's institutions, Masonic'
and others, namely, the increasing tendency to care for dependent children
in foster homes rather than in institutions. Arguments can undoubtedly be
advanced both for and against either the institutional or the foster home
method of child care. Those of us who have hl\d a part in the operation
of the Covina Horne during the past twenty years or more, believe that its
results abundantly justify our faith in it and the efforts of the fraternity
in sustaining it.
Results at Covina
In the office of the Covina Horne hang the group photographs of all the
classes of graduates for the past fifteen years. We have made it our business to know how these boys and girls have turned out in later years, and to
know also how they themselves feel about the Home and its influence
upon them. While not all of them are 100 per cent successful, their average
performance when thrown upon their own· resources compares favorably
not only with children brought up in foster homes, but with those reared
by their own parents. The thing that is significant in this connection is
not the achievements of the best or the failures of the poorest, but rather
the performance of the average; and that performance, in spite of the fact
that many of them emerged from the Home into the severest period of
the depression years, is a good one. They have found jobs and held them;
they have kept off of relief and . out of jail; th.e y have married and are
raising families; they have taken their places as good and representative
American citizens. That is a fair picture of the average product of our
Masonic children's institution.
0

We are glad that the immediate need for this form of Masonic relief
seems to be a ' decreasing one. We cannot predict the future. Some there
are whose opinions should have weight, who foresee conditions following
the present world-wide carnage and destruction, which will make the Covina
Home more necessary than ever before. It is the opinion of your Board
that we should continue to maintain this Horne on its present high plane
of efficiency, and to have it re:>dy to do its share in caring for the distress
which seems certain to follow in the wake of the present emergency.
Physical Condition of Properties
We have long recognized the necessity of maintaining our physical

465 .

In addition to the ordinary maintenance of our plant we rebuilt and
purchased new equipment as follows:

Decoto: Automatic refrigerator, dishwashing machine, bake oven, installed new pump and modernized electric meter arrangement.
Death of Superintendent Hartman
On February 3, 1941, Superintendent Frank B. Hartman was stricken
with a heart attack while driving his car in Oakland, he passed away on
February 6. The funeral services were conducted by Grand Master Lloyd
E . Wilson at the Masonic Home, Decoto.
For thirty-one years Brother Hartman served the Home and the Masons
of California as Superintendent, and at all times was more a Brother Mason
than Superintendent in his relations with those who were residents of the
Home. He insisted that Masonry intended it to be truly a Home and all
who lived therein were members of the "Family"; as the Father his job was
to promote happiness. His success was evidenced by the sorrow of the
"Family" at his passing. A true Mason departed when Frank Hartman
joined the great caravan.
The vacancy caused by the death of Superintendent Hartman was filled
by the appointment of James· R. Eubanks, a member and Past Master of
San Mateo Lodge No. 226. Brother Eubanks has had many years' experience in institutional work as Superintendent of the San Mateo Horne for
the Aged.
Minnie B. Richardson who had served the Masonic Home as Matron
for twenty years felt that her health made it imperative that she resign.
She retired on May 1, 1941 and in consideration of her long and faithful
services the Board of Trustees voted her a pension of $50.00 a month.
Mrs. Virginia Lord wno had been for sixteen years assistant in the
Home hospital was appointed Matron.
Although but a few month s have elapsed, we feel that we have made in
both instances a happy choice.
Resident Physician
The proper care of our residents of the Decoto Home who are ill has
long had consideration of your Trustees. For years we have called in a
physician from the neighborhood town of Centerville. This at times has
been unsatisfactory. Early this year we heard that Dr. Val Priestley Osburn
of San Diego, a member of Anaheim Lodge No. 207, a physician who
specializ.ed in diseases of the aged might be available. Arrangements were
made for a resident physician and Dr. Osburn is now at the Home in that
capacity.
We would like to acknowledge our debt to Dr. W. L. McWhirter whom
he succeeded and who served the Horne faithfully and well as a visiting
physician. The number of residents hospitalized as well as the demands
for medical attention due to the ailments of old age compelled the appointment of a resident physician available at all times.

•

.466

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Silver Plates
During the years of existence of the Homes many donations have
come from individuals and lodges, which your Trustees have greatly appreciated. In many cases such gifts have been commemorated by. a silver
plate or bronze tablet indicating the donor and apprising the public of his
generosity.
,
But another thing that has perhaps been overlooked, is that by these
markers also the residents of the Homes are continuously reminded that
they are the objects of charity. This we believe is damaging to their selfrespect, particularly in the case of the children in the Covina Home. The
best ideal for the institutional home is that it -should be as much as possible
like a private home; the display of donor's plates does not fit in with this
ideal.
In this connection it is worthy of remark that we have found that a
donation is much more readily given for an ornamental or monumental
gift, such as an expensive vase or a piece of statuary, than for a merely
useful item such as a floor covering. Yet linoleum for the kitchen floor may
do more than a hall clock to make the place seem like home.
We cannot but commend the spirit of the Southern California Edison
Masonic Club, who have made it their project to maintain the kitchen of our
hospital at Covina since since 1926. Last year after expending several hundred dollars in bringing its equipment up to date, they voluntarily requested
the removal of the silver plate which recited that they were the donors. "We
don't want any credit," they said, "all we want is the satisfaction of knowing
that this need of the Home is being taken care of, and we are glad to do
it for that reason alone." That, we submit, is a spirit truly Masonic.
Having these considerations in mind we have resolved to discourage
the giving of gifts which have as a consideration that they be identified by
markers visible to the public and consequently to the residents of the Homes.
We trust and believe that persons or organizations who may be moved to
contribute to the work of the Homes by their gifts will be willing to forego
the gratification of commemorations in silver and bronze, in the faith that
there is a place where every good deed is recorded imperishably.

Home. Some years later they were authorized to give "outside" relief to
suc;h applicants not physically handicapped whose happiness would be promoted by giving financial aid which would enable the aged brother to
continue to live in his home environment and among his friends, provided
that the sum allowed should not be greater than the per capita cost at the
Home. This policy has come in for some criticism and .is now again pres~nte~ to Grand ~o.dge. The question is: Should eligible applicants be
a~ded only by adm1ss10n to the Home at Decoto, or should consideration be
given to requests of applicants and Lodges for the aged brother to remain
among friends and relatives in the community where he has in many instances spent the years of his adult life?

Hospitalization
Under our regulations admission to the Decoto Home is refused to
those who are invalids or otherwise incapacitated and unable to care for
themselves. If we were to admit such who need hospital and nursing care
we would have to greatly increase our capacity. Furthermore, our location
is such that an adequate visiting medical staff is almost impossible.
A check of other Masonic Homes would indicate that with few exceptions all refuse such cases as cannot go to the dining room and care for
themselves.
Hospital costs in those states that admit the incapacitated run from
$2.7 5 to $4.50 daily as against our per capita of $1.11 which includes our
hospital costs.
It is interesting to note that the Grand Lodge of Washington refused a
gift of $200,000 for a hospital after careful study, reporting that the maintenance cost of such an institution would be greater than private nursing
care.
Outside Relief
Grand Lodge in 1921 authorized your Trustees to assist Lodges in the
care of bodily afflicted brothers otherwise eligible for admission to the

•

467

Appreciation
Hardly a week passes but some business before your trustees calls for
legal advice. Deeds to property, sale of real estate, bequests' and estates
where we must be represented before the court.
For years Past Grand Master thas. Albert Adams has cared for
these matters, passing on to Past Grand Master Dana Weller such as
o~iginat~ in. the south. Both these brethren not only willingly and unselfishly
g1v~ their time but al"."'ays have refused to bill the Homes for stenographic,
c_lencal and other serv1c~s. Your Trustees hereby acknowlege their appreciation and call the attent10n of the Grand Lodge to the unselfish generosity
of Brothers Adams and Weller in safeguarding the interests of the Homes.
An Irreparable Loss
With the death of John Which er the Trustees of the Masonic Homes
lost more than its secretary. Secretary of the Homes since 1908 he was a
stor~ho1;1se of information regarding the rules, regulations and a~tivities of
the institutions. Age did not impair his faculties and· to the last his reports
of the business transactions and the recording of the minutes truly reflected
the actions of the Trustees.
Beyond all this he had contact with many who were about to become
residents of the Home and in his kindly way gave courage to the applicant
and ma?e the entrance to the Home easier for the aged brother. Incidentally
h_e retained his interest after their admission, never failing to give them a
kindly word in his frequent visits.
His heart was with the children and the letters he wrote to the gradua~e~ on their leaving the Home at Covina will long be treasured by the rec1p1ents.
It will be long before his place is filled.
Entertainment Fund
Last year we called your attention to this fact: for a number of years
the ;esponse of lodges to our Christmas card, which is a polite way of suggesting that you make a contribution for the entertainment of our residents
at Decoto and our children at Covina, has not been as generous as in the
past. The result has been that in order to carry on the activities which lent
pleasure to our aged and children, not only during the holiday period but also
throughout the year, the contributions have not been sufficient to meet our
ex~enditures. In the last several years we have created a deficit of $4233.29.
This year the response was $58.00 more than the amount expended. This
is promising and we hope the response this year will wipe out the deficit.
Recommendation
Your Trustees would request a per capita assessment for the support
of the Masonic Homes of 40 cents .

468

GRANf> LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Due to the unsettled condition we doubt the sufficiency of this amount.
The advance in food supplies and other commodities will approach 20 per
cent at this time, and where the end will be no one can predict.
It is our hope ciur funds will carry the Homes through the year without a deficit.
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG,
JAMES B. GrsT,
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS,
SAMUEL E. BURKE,
FRANK M. SMITH,
LESLIE E. Woon,
CLAUDE H. MORRISON,

Trustees.

Report adopted, except the recommendation of the per capita
tax, which was referred to the Finance Committee.

469

Notes and contracts receivable are listed at the unpaid balance as at
July 31 , 1941.
Life insurance policies, received mainly from residents of the Homes,
have been recorded at the amount recoverable at the death of the insured if
determinable, otherwise at a nominal value of $1.00.
Real estate has been recorded at the assessed value as taken from the
tax bills. Real estate sales during the year were very good, but more parcels were received during the year, so the value at July 31, 1941, amounted
to $10,711.00. A number of these parcels are being held for the account
of the Endowment Fund.
The stocks and bonds and some of the notes are held by the Anglo
California National Bank for safekeeping, and were verified by certification
from the bank. The remainder of the notes and all the life insurance policies are held at the office of the Homes' secretary and were inspected by us.
Trust and Annuity Funds:
Under Schedules B-4, B-5, B-6, B-7 and B-8 are shown the details of
the various trust and annuity funds. Payments due from these funds in
accordance with the contracts and agreements were made from the Homes
General Fund. Reimbursements were later made to the General Fund from
the various trust and annuity funds.
All bank balances and securities of these funds were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.

Report of Auditors
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic H.omes of California:
We have completed our audit of the books and records of the Masonic
Homes of California for the fiscal year ended July 31·, 1941, and submit the
following statements:
Statements of Funds and Properties
Exhibit A : Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit B : Balance Sheet, General Fund, July 31, 1941.
Schedule B-1 : Statement of Securities, Insurance Policies and Notes
Receivable, General Fund.
Schedule B-2 : Statement of the Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-3: Statement of the Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund.
Schedule B-4 : Statement of the "C. N. Flint Trust Fund."
Schedule B-5: Statement ·o f the "C. N. Flint Annuity Fund."
Schedule B-6 : Statement of the " C. N. Flint Annuity 'Morgan' Fund."
Schedule B-7: Statement of the "George and Harriet Wadleigh Annuity Fund."
.
Schedule B-8 : Statement bf the "Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment
Annuity Fund."
Schedule B-9: Statement of the "Charles L . Patton Reserve Fund."
Schedule B-10: Statement of Sundry Funds.
Statements of Revenue and Expense
Exhibit C : Statement of Revenue and Expense.
Exhibit D : Statement of Direct Operating Expense, Decoto.
Exhibit E : Statement of Direct Operating Expense, Covina.
Schedule D-1 : Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail, Decoto.
Schedule E-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail, Covina.

General:
Sufficient examination and tests were made of the revenue and expense
accounts to satisfy ourselves as to the general correctness of the accounting.
Detailed distribution of the operating expenses of the Homes were made by
Decoto and Covina offices and were accepted as correct after we had verified
amounts by totals.

Cash:
Comments
All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
As shown at the bottom of Page 2 of Exhibit A, there was not sufficient
cash on hand at July 31, 1941, to repay the moneys aue to other funds.

Certificate:
We certify that, in our opinion, subject to the foregoing comments, the
attached statements set forth the financial condition of the Masonic Homes
of California as at July 31, 1941, and the result of operations for the year.

Securities, Notes, Real Estate, Etc.:
All of the securities listed under Schedule B-1 have been received by
donation. The book value represents the market value at the time of donation. A nominal value of $1.00 is used for purpose of record when the
actual value is unknown.

Total Funds of the Homes:
A summary of all funds as at July 31, 1941, is shown below :
Homes General Fund (Exhibit B) ...... :.............................................$2,489,658.37
Entertainment Fund (Schedule B-2) .....................:..........................
4,fSS.Z9
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund (Schedule B-3)..................
48,597.84
C. N. Flint Trust Fund (Schedule B-4) ............................................ 151,956.31
Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund (Schedule B-9) ..........................
40,186.72
Gloria Benjamin Fund (Schedule B-10) ....... ~ ...... . ... .. . . ........ . ...... .. . .. . .
·1,077.79
Special Entertainment Fund for Decoto Residents (Schedule
4,553.11
153,737.93
Endowment Funds .................................................................................. 1,317,715.99

Ann~i~~O~~-~d~··::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::

Total.. ....... .1 ..........••.:.....•••.•..• :.....................................................$4,203,250.77

Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS .& WEBB,
Certified Public Accountants,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

470

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit A
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941

General FundCash balance August I, 1940-------'·-··----··'······-----··--····-----·· ..-'··----· .. ····-··-··-$ 51,893.13
Receipts
From Revenue Accounts:
1940 annual returns:
Homes maintenance dues .................. $ 48,659.60
Homes building fund dues -···-·····-··· 60,824.50
$25.00 Homes tax --···-··--·--.······--......... 84,695.00

$194,179.10

Endowment Fund income :
Regular fund .... :......... ,......... ,........ :....$ 39,568.96
Luckenbach fund (3 years) ····---····7,372.80

46,941.76

General maintenance (income · from,
and proceeds from sales of securities, real estate, insurance policies,
etc., turned over to the Homes) ..... .
Maintenance payments through lodges:
For Decoto _________ :....:....... :.... .'.............. $ 6,489.19
For Covina -··--·--·········-·-········-··········--·· 5,292.88
State aid for Covina.......................... :............................ .
.Outside relief, not eligible for Home relief, reimbursed by Grand Lodge ............................................
Funeral expense refunds ·------········--···-------------------------General bequests ........................................................... .
Miscellaneous income:
Farm sales, Decoto ...,.................. .-....$
17.05
391.35
Farm rent, Decoto ........................... .
Salvage sold, Decotb ....................... .
133.75
1,702.25
Farm sales, Covina ........................... .
99.48
Interest ------·------·-------------------·---·--·------247.98
Insurance refunds ..............................

19,014.48
11,782.07
8,252.50
4,800.00
4,529.97
1,014.24

For account of other funds:
Entertainment fund ............ :.............$ 1,246.20
2,245.37
Students' loan fund ·····----------------------790.31
Endowment fund ............................ ..
Decoto residents' special entertain476.23
ment fund ....................................... .

Disbursements
Expense accounts :
Operating expense, Decoto ---·----------···---···--------····---$128,580.35
Operating expense, Covina -----·---·--·-·-··-·····--·--------·-· 107,271.38
Outside relief ······--········------·-··----------·----·-------------------- 18,978.00
Outside care of children -------------------··--··-·-·-·-··-··--··--·
2,566.51
General maintenance (insurance, taxes and other
expenses on property turned over to the
2,613.02
Homes) ··---·············--·--·--"····-----··----·--·-----·-·-··-----·
5,008.43
Funeral expenses ··-----···---------··---·--·-··-·-··:·--···-·-··------·1,000.00
Contribution to Endowment Fund -·-·-·------···----·--··
Administrative and general expense:
Taxes ..,..:......·,·-·-•··---·--·--·-··-···-·····-····-$
Insurance ---·--······---··-·-·-··-··--····-··----··
Field investigation expense:
Northern district ·---···---·---·-·--·-·-Southern district ·---····--·--·--···-·: __
Reimbursed Grand Lodge, secretary's and assistant's salaries ....
Trustees' expense ···-----··-···-··--··-·-·Auditing ·--·-····-··-·---·---·-····--··'·-···--·····
Safekeeping of securities ··--·---··-·-·
Office supplies and printing ··-··-·Miscellaneous ..................................

3,607.56
2,412.86
2,224.51
3,665.88
1,800.00
784.01
550.00
250.00
242.19
385.08

15,922.09

Total expense accounts ...................................... $281,939.78

Trust funds, to be reimbursed:
The three C. N. Flint funds -·-···------$
The two Wadleigh funds ·-······-··--····-

5,700.08
3,125.00

8,825.08

Patton fund :........ ,..... :........................$ 40,200.00
Entertainment fund ..........................
1,187.83
Students' loan fund ..........................
675.17
Residents' deposits, Decoto ............
862.00

42,925.00

For account of other funds :

2,591.86

Total from revenue accounts ............................ $293,105.98
Reimbursements from trust funds :
The three C: N. Flint funds ............ $ 6,404.09
The two Wadleigh funds..................
4,750.00

471

Total disbursements ----·--·--·-···-··-·-····-·----····-··-----·--·············---··-$333,689.86

11,154.09

Cash balance July 31, 1941 ·--~-----··-----~~-----···: ...•..........•...... ,..•,... :............;$ 27,221.45

Recapitulation of cMh balanceCash on hand July 31, 1941.:........................................................'............$ 27,221.45
Less: Due to other funds ......•..,......................................$ 38,883.35
Deduct due from other funds..............................
6,297.47
32,585.88

4,758.11

Total receipts ...................................................................................... 309,018.18
Total cash to account for ······-········-··--··---·-··-·-······-······---··--···········-··$360,911.31

Cash deficit July 31, 1941.................. ,................................ :......$ 5,364.43

472

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit B

Add :

Balance Sheet, General Fund, July 31, 1941

Excess of revenue over expense 1940-41
(Exhibit C) ,..•;..... ~······-·····-~: ...,_..:.~.~..•.•....$
Securities and real estate donated 1940-41.. ....

~ssets­

Cash:
In banks (see comments) ............$
Revol:'ing funds, Decoto and
Covma ....,...._.................................

Due from other funds:
C. N. Flint Trust Fund ................
Charles L. Patton Fund..............
Entertainment Fund ....................

1,758.52
16,266.56

18,025.08

Total............................................................................................$2,509,999.58

26,158.27
1,063.18 $

Securities, real estate, etc. · (donated):
General Fund securities
(Schedule B-1) ..........................
64,324.74
Real estate (assessed value) ......
I0,711.00

473

27,221.45

Deduct:
Book value of securities and real estate sold 1940-41. Entire proceeds recorded as revenue ........................................

20,341.21

Balance July 31 , 1941 .....,..............................................................$2,489,658.37

75,035.74

Schedule B-1
1,864.18
200.00
4,233.29

Statement of Securities, Insurance Policies and Notes and Contracts
Receivable, General Fund, July 31, 1941

6,297.47

Stocks Donat ed :
Properties (at cost, no
depreciation taken:
Land, buildings and equipment,
Decoto .......................................... 1,787,839.48
Land, buildings and equipment,
Covina ........................................ ~. 606,093.98
Land and improvements,
Camp Tucker ............................
23,096.00

Stores and supplies:
Decoto ....;·....,....:....~ ...,.........:...........$
Covina ..............................................

2,482.46
475.14

Shares

2,417,029.46

2,957.60

Total assets .................................... ,................... .'.....................$2,'528,541.72

LiabilitiesDue ·to other funds:
Students' Loan Fund.............................................$
Residents' Deposits Fund ....................................
Decoto Residents' Special Entertainment
· Fund ............•......,........................................... .
Endowment Fund ................................................
Suspense items ..,.................................................

Book ""Value
Ambassador Hotel Co. of L. A., part certificate..........$
1.00
30
Anglo California National Bank, common ..................
320.00
Anglo National Corporation, Class A, common ........
140.00
IO
Bank of America, N. T. & S. A. ....................................
502.50
IO•
3
Bancamerica-Blair Corporation .......................................
1.00
4
Cities Service Co. ................................................................
16.00
3
Daily News Corporation, Class C, common................
3.00
1
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., common....................
25.00
4
Graton & Knight Co., preferred ....................................
400.00
IO
Graton & Knight Co., common ......................................
10.00
2
G. M. C. Metalic Grease Co. of California, preferred
200.00
1
G, M. C. Metalic Grease Co. of California, common....
100.00
I03
Home Insurance Co. of New York.................·................. 3,350.00
15
Kern County Mutual Building & Loan Assn. ............
1,500.00
70
Lloyd Oil Corporation .........:............................................
70.00
6
Masonic Hall A ssociation of Alameda......................:...
60.00
2
McKeon Canning Co., common ......................................
200.00
50
Midway O il Co. ···············································-·················
1.00
1
National Leather Co., preferred ......................................
100.00
5
National Leather Co., common ......................................
50.00
North American Oil Consolidated ...•............................
437.50
50
,, 2
Orinda Petroleum Co., Ltd., Class A, common............
44.00
37.08
1853 l/IOO Pacific Empire Holdings .....•............................................
14
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% preferred......................
350.00
4
Southern California Edison Co., Ltd., common............
100.00
6
Stoney, Rouleau & Stoney, Inc. ....................................
6.00
Texon Oil and Land Co. ....................................................
7.00
7
Transamerica Corporation ................................................
1,626.50
145
8/100 United Cigar-Whelan Stores Corp., common................
1.00
United Stores Corp., Class A ..........................................
1.00

5

29,597.84
3,892.09
4,553.11
790.31
50.00

Tota'! liabilities ........................................................................

38,883.35

Excess of assets over liabilities .............................:......................$2,489,658.37

Capital AccountBalance August 1, 1940 .................................................................... :...$2,491,974.Sei'

Total stocks ..•.................................,...............................$ 9,659.58

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bonds donated:
$ 500 Ambassador Hotel Co., income mtge., S. F. 5%, 1950______ $
1500 Market St. Ry. Co. First mtge., S. F., 5%, 1945·---·-·-------·---1000 Tilden Lumber & Mill Co., S. F., 6~%, 1946·-------··-····---··

214.00
1,500.00
160.00

Total bonds ..........................................................................$

1,874.00

Building and Loan Certificates donated:
Columbia Guarantee Building & Loan Assn. (claim) ................ $
44.66
Pacific States Saving and Loan Co............................................ .
656.25
San Jose Building & Loan Assn. and Pioneer Investors, Inc.,
note ............................... ,................................................................
1,211.28
Southern California Building & Loan Assn .............................
800.00
Total building and loan certificates ......................................$

2,712.19

Insurance policies donated:
Acacia Life Insurance Co .............................,.................................$
Al Malaikah Auditorium Co...........................................................
Balder Relief Association ............................................................... .
~onservative Life Insurance Co. .. ................................................
Equitable Fraternal Union ........................................ ,.....................
Hercules Life Insurance Co. of Chicago.........................:............
Low Twelve Club of Pasadena ..................................................... .
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. (2 policies) ........................ ..
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York ($5000 less $1675
loan) ............................................................................................. .
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance ..................................................... .
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund .................................. :............. ..
Presbyterian Ministers' Fund (principal sum uncertain
$3107 loan) ................................................................................. '.
Prudential Insurance Co. of America (5 policies) ....................
Widows and Orphans Fund:
Aahmes Temple (3 policies, $1500 each) .......................... ..
Burlingame Lodge No. 400 .................................................. ..
California Bodies, Scottish Rite ........................................... .
Islam Temple (2 policies, $1000 each) .............................. ..
Woodmen of the World Benefit Certificate ............................. .

1,000.00
100.00
225.00

77.00
1,073.25
1,000.00
1.00
475.00
3,325.00
1,000.00
300.00
3,500.00
1,334.00
4,500.00
400.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
3,000.00

475

Notes and contracts rece,ivable (arising from donated notes and sales of
donated property):
942.85
Andrus, John R. and Jean K ...........................................................$
Baxley, Webster and Ann ..............................................................
819.49
1,100.00
Bergstrom, Alfred T. and Minnie .............................................. ..
Cavalry Baptist Church, Wayburn, Saskatchewan, Canada,
guaranteed by second mortgage ............................. ,............. .
1,050.00
180.13
Dias ....................................................................................................... .
Emry, George L. and Mattie ........................................................
501.51
1,107.93
Gordon, Archie and Josephine ......................................................
1,000.00
Groo, David E. and M. Frances ......................................... :........ ..
Hague, Ole and Lillian .................................................................. ..
861.14
1,565.39
Herrick, Kennan C. and Virginia B .............................................
2,895.11
Hoag, George H. and Esther A. .....................................................
75.00
Kamps, L. M. and Wilma ............................................................. .
375.00
Leask, Samuel ....................................................................................
1,130.00
Lerza, Manfred and Lucy ............................................................ ..
2,667.15
Taylor, Theo. B. and Launena ....................................................... ..
2,429.75
Williams, Vernon E. and Helen L. (Vetter note) .................... ..
Acquired 1940-41:
Byer, Otto L. and Erna (Hiltner property) .................... ..
Oliver, Archie A. (Grimm property) ....................................
Peall, W. C. (White property) ............................................... .

2,259.67
275.00
86.92

Total notes and contracts ................................................$ 21,322.04
Total securities, insurance policies, notes and contracts ......$ 64,324.74
Schedule B-2
Summarized Statement of Entertainment Fund for the Fiscal ·
Year Ended July 31, 1941
Balance August 1, 1940 (overdrawn, due General Fund) ..............$

4,291.66

Add: Disbursements during the year:
Decoto Christmas ................ :.....................................$ 2,230.85
Decoto entertainment .............................................. ..
297.46
Covina. entertainment ............................................... . 4,673.06

7,201.37

Total. ......... :.................................................................. :...........$ 11,493.03
Deduct: Receipts during the year ........................................................
7,259.74

Additions 1940-41:
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. -·-------------------------------...... ..
Metropolitan Insurance Co., S. P. group ........................... .
Mutual Life Ins. Co. of New York (dividend addition
to $5000 policy ) ........................................................... ___ __
Prudential Insurance Co. of America (5 policies) ............ ..
Widows and Orphans Fund: ·
California Bodies, Scottish Rite ............................................
Islam Temple ........................................................................... .

Balance July 31, 1941 (overdrawn, due General Fund) ....................$

4,233.29

196.00
1,250.00
73.00
1,427.68
500.00
1,000.00 .

Total insurance policies ...............;...... - .....;...................... $ 28,756.93

Schedule B-3
Summarized Statement of Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
Balance August 1, 1940 ..........·................................ ~ .......:........................$ 47,027.64
Add:
Income received, dividends and interest.. ..............$ 1,165.52
Loans returned .......·.................................................. .
631.92
Creation of George P. Allen Scholarship Fund ..
2,000.00

3,797.44

Total.. .......................... ,...........,...:...........~........................................ :$ 50,825.08

476

Deduct:
Distribution for educational purposes..........................................

2,227.24

Balance July 31, 1941 :
George P. Allen Scholarship Fund ..--············'·····-$ 2,000.00
George and Laura E. Brigham Scholarship Fund 36,456.97
Students Loan Fund ................................................ 10,140.87 $ 48,597.84

Composition of Fund
Due from Homes General Fund ,.;.• ,....................... - ...... :.... --····-'·-·····$ 29,597.84
Securities:
$5000 Southern California Edison Co. 6% preferred stock, series B ............................. ~ ..$ 5,000.00
. 527 shares Pacific Gas · & Electric Company
6% preferred stock .................................. 14,000.00

Schedule B-4
Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Trust Fund for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
Balance August 1, 1940 ....................................................................~ .......$106,858.62

49,317.77

Total.. ............................................................................,........-~......$156, 176.39
Deduct disbursements :·
Expense of T!easure Island trip for Decoto resi~
263.76
dents ...::..'-············- ···-.··········································$
538.33
Hospital equipment for Decoto .........................:... .
1,219.22
Station wagon for Decoto ......................................
334.59
Taxes on property ....................................................
1,864.18
Reconditioning and upkeep of property..................

Los Angeles :
County Drainage 6%, 1944-7-8 ........................................
3,478.00
3,000
County F lood Control 5%, 1947-8 ..................................
4,629.44
4,000
County Sanitation District 50 %, 1943...................,........
1,091.04
1,000
1,145.31
County Sanitation District 5% %, 1950............................
1,000
City of, power plant, 4%, 1956..........................................
1,093.33
1,000
City of, improvements, 6%, 1944 ....................................
1,017.33
1,000
City of, w ater works, 40%, 1962..- .............•..........'.......... 12,338.95
10,000
1,650.00
10,000
Mountain Park Co. 1939 (defaulted) ·················-···········
20,000 Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. 1st mtg. 3~%. 2003... . 18,700.00
1,207.50
1,000 Modesto Irrigation D istrict 6%, 1950.•.............:...................
1,065.31
1,000 Pierce Joint Union High School Distric.t 4~%. 1946......
1,000 San Diego County Special District Refunding 2~%.
1946 ........................................................................................
1,030.31
130.00
2,000 Tule Irrigation District ..........................................................
12,500 U. S. A. Treasury bonds, 3~%, 1956.......................:.......... 14,156.25
22,500 U. S. A. Treasury bonds, 4%, 1954 ...................................... 25,164.84

19,000.00

Balance July 31, 1941 (as above) •.............~..........................."-....:.........$ 48,597.84

Add :
Income received, dividends and interest................$ 4,386.13
Profit on sale of real estate .................................... 4,792.85
Additional distribution of estate, bonds and cash 40,138.79

477

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Stocks
100 shares Security First National Bank of Los Angeles........
500 shares Transamerica Corporation -~-·-··-'················-·····':.....- )
100 shares Bank of America, N. T. & S. A~ ······-··········-~·-·····---)
20 shares B::mcamerica-Blair Corp ........._. ...... _........................... )

6,000.00
13,000.00

Total securities ..................................................................$133,8?3.41
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank ..........,.................$ 2,664.82
Security First N ational Bank.................................. 2,045.33

4,710.15

Note receivable (deed of trust) ..............................................................
Improved real estate (assessed value) ................................................

9,806.93
5,480.00

Total assets .................................................................. ,............,..,...$153,820.49
Less, due Masonic Homes ................................................,.................,....

1,864.)8

Balance July 31, 1941 ....................:........~·-·'·"·"'··································'-···$151,956.31
4,220.08

Schedule B-5

Balance July 31, 1941 ................................................................................$151,956.31

Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity Fund for the
Fiscal ~ear ~nded July 31, 1941

Composition of Fund
Securities:
Bonds
130.00
$ 2,000 Baxter Creek Irrigation District ...... :..... _., ........................:.$
10,000 Cleveland Union Terminal, 1st mtg. 40%, 1977.............. 10,287.50
8,000 Consolidated Federal Farm Loan 4%, 1946.,;..................... 8,980.00
2,000 Consolidated Federal Farm Loan 3 ~%. 1955.................... 2,153.96
1,000 Covina, city of, sewer, 2~%. 1950........................................
973.44
4,000 Grant Union High School District 2%, 1954.................... 3,546.32
1,000 Lincoln Joint Stock Land Bank 5%, 1951 ..........................
854.58

Balance August 1, 1940 ....,. ..........................................- ......~ .. :..'...;......: ....$ 77,454.70
Add dividends and interest reteeived· .........•...:...........:...,:.. :...:.'..:.:..·......
2,984.10
Ti)taL......................................................'..........................................$ 80,4~8.80
Deduct :
·•
Payment on contract .: .... '....:.:...;...........:...~ ..............$ 1,000.00
.' - Loi;s on bond~ called ..............:...................................
1,515.34

2,515.34

, Balance July 31, 1941 ............- .........................;......:.....••:........:.... '.:...::.:.$. 77,923:46

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

478

479

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Barik) ......:....:......................:.....:.-$ 4,319.35
Securities (bonds):
$ 5;000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District
4%%. 1961 ·············-=··················:.........•.......$ 6,837.75
2,000 Golden Gate· Bridge & Highway District
3~%. 1967 ···················································· 2,459.06
1,000 Grant Union High School District 2%,
1955 ··································································
880.13
20,000 Great Northern Railway Company General
Mortgage 4)12%,' 1977 .................................. 21,154.40
20,000 Great Northern Railway Company, General
Mortgage 4%, 1946 ...................................... 24,554.80
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, electric plant, 4~%.
1964 ··································································
1,290.48
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, water works, 4~%.
1960 ···································································· 1,169.18
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, water works, 4)12%,
1967 ·································································· 6,129.38
6,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California 4%, 1963-65-81-83 ...................... 7,766.21
1,000 Santa Monica School District 5%, 1961 .... 1,362.72

Schedule B-7
Summarized Statement of "George and Harriet Wadleigh Annuity
Fund" for the Fiscal Year E nded July 31, 1941
Bala~ce August l_, 1940 ·······················•···········-···································;...$ 21,646.23
Add interest received .........................................................:..............;.........
692.04

· Total........................................•.....................-·········-····,···················$ 22 338.27
Deduct payments on contract··-········-···········--······································1:625.00
Balance July 31, 1941 ........................................•.........,.......,..:......•.., ......$ 20,713.27
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ,......:.......... ~···························$
613.98
SecuritiesBonds;
$8,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District 5%,
1971-4-6 .............:.....•.. ·-·····-~---·················$ 11,887.04
1,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water
4:)4%, 1970 .............................................. 1,384.18
5,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water
4)12%, 1973 ..................................,........... 6,828.07
73,604.11

Balance July 31, 1941 (as above) .........,................\...................:........,...$ 77,923.46

20,099.29

Balance July 31, 1941 (as above) .......\..........- ...:.....•;,.,.•:..................:...$ 20,713.27

Schedule B-6

Sch.edule B.-8
Summarized Statement of "Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity
Fund" for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941

Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity "Morgan" Fund
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941

!~~~ce August l_, 1940 ·:··:··:·······.-···.-·······:·····,········'············•····..······---····$ 28,S57.13

Balance August 1, 1940 ....................................................................•.......$ 26,633.47
Add dividends and interest received .......................,.............................. 1,179.13
·T otal.........'............................. ~ .............................................................$ 27,812.60
Deduct payments on contract ................................................................ ; 480.00
Bala.nee July 31, 1941 .:...............,.....................................:...........:...:...::.$ 27,332.60
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ..............................................$

362.31

Securities (bonds) :
$3,000 Beverly Hills, City of, Water 4~%. 1960 $ 3,689.70
5,000 Glendale Union High School District
5%, 1.965-6 ,......;..,.....;............................. 6,697.41
4,000 Grant Union High School District 2%,
1954-5 ······················································ 3,539.87
.., 2,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water
5%, 1960 ·················································· 2,603.31
Stcitks:
253 units Security Company ...........................:........
60 shares Sec.u rity-First National Bank of Los
Angeles ..................................:.....................

7,590.00
2,850.00

26.970.29

.Balance July 31, 1941 (as above) ....,.::.......,..,.....:....................... _..........$ 27,332.60

1nteres~ received ········-······················'"·······,······'.·····--·····-·····'·'·········

411.47

Total........................;.....- ..........,.•.... -····-·•;·····~·-······:,,.............:.-....$ 29 ,268.60
Deduct payments on contract .............:.......................•..,.......................
1,500.00
Balance July 31, 1941 ...........................................,,...'.··•··•'-···················-$ 27,768.60
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ............•...........,...................$ 4,488.77
SecuritiesBonds :
$1,000 Compton Union High School 5%, 1957 $ 1,301.46
1,367.95
1,000 Compton City School District 5%, 1962
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant
4~o/o, 1967 ·············································'
1,328.10
1,000 Los Angeles, Harbor Improvements ·
4:)4%, 1965 ..............................................
1,401.83
1,000 Los Angeles, Park Construction 4%,
1967 ............................................................
1,275.86
1,000 Los Angeles, Water Works, 4)12%, 1966 1,363.03
2,000 Los Angeles, Water Works 5%, 1966-74 2,967.38
1,000 Los Angeles, Water Works 4~%. 1967 1,328.82
10,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California 3%, 1971 .........:............ 10,945.40

23.,279.83

Balance July 31, 1941 (as above) ····.···················································.--·•$ •27,768.60

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Schedule B-9

Special entertainment fund for Decoto residents. This fund was created
from personal deposits of deceased residents of Decoto and deposited
in the General Fund .........:...........................:..........................:...........$4,!t53. l l

Summarized Statement of "Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund" for .
the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
Balance August 1, 1940 ..:-.................:...:.:.....:..........:•....:,............~ ..........$ 40,000.00
Add interest received ..............................................................................
386.72

Exhibit C

T.otaL...._,........... ;............,................................................,..............·....$ ·40,386.72
Deduct deposit on "Seeing-eye" dog for Ben Helwig.................,...
200.00
Balance July 31, 1941 .....,..•....,....c.,.................... - .................................1••$ 40,186.72
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank •.........................$
Bank of America ........................................................
San Francisco Bank . ................................................

257.50
5,041.66
4,112.97

SecuritiesBonds:
$5,000 California Water Service, 1st Mtg. 4%,
1961 ..:............~ ........................~ ...............:...$ 5,142.31
3,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works
40%, 1967 .........................................,....
4,083.53
2,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California 30%, 1980 ....................
2,409.69
3,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California 4%, 1982 ........................
3,961.45
2,000 New York, City of, Water Supply 4~%.
1972 ............................................................
2,545.00
8,000 New York, City of, Dock Improvement
4y.(%, 1972 .............................................. 10,180.00
2,000 San Francisco, City and County of,
Hetch Hetchy 40%, 1973 ..................
2,652.61

$ 9,412.13

Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fiscal Year
Ended July 31, 1941
Revenue-1940 Annual Returns:
Homes maintenance dues ................$ 48,659.60
Homes building fund dues .............. 60,824.50
$25.00 Homes tax .............................. 84,650.00
Prior years Home tax ......................
45.00 $194,179.10
Endowment Fund income:
Regular fund ··'·'"·······························-$ 39,568.96
Luckenbach Fund ............................ 2,458.87

42,027.83

General maintenance (income from, and proceeds
from sales of, securities, real estate, insurance
policies, etc., less expenses of $6,263.21):.............
Maintenance payment through Lodges ......................
State aid for Covina ........................................................
General bequests ...........................................:........... ,........
Interest ..................................................................................

12,701.27
11,782.07
8,252.50
1,014.24
99.48

Total revenue ..................................................................................$270,056.49
30,974.59

Total............................................ ;.............................$ 40,386.72
Less due Masonic Homes ........................................................................
200.00
Balance July 31, 1941 (as above) ............, ...:.......................................$ 40,186.72
Schedule B-10
Summarized Statement of Sundry Funds Held as of July 31, 1941
Gloria Benjamin Trust Fund :
Balance August 1, 1940 (cash) •.................•...,.....::.. :...:..:..............$ 1,056.56
Add interest received ........................................................................
21.23
Balance July 31, 1941 (The San Frarlcisco Bank savings account) $ 1,077.79
Residents' deposits:
Cash on deposit by residents at Decoto:
In Homes General Fund ~--·····~·"·'··'····..-·..··········-$' 3,892.09
445.45
Central Bank, Niles, California ............,........,.......
1,848.60
Farmers and Merchants Bank, Oakland, Calif...
l!·~

481

Total .....•,...'.....:.....,.......•...::.......: .............:............... ~...'............;.. :..$ 6, 186.14

ExpenseOperation of Homes:
Decato (Exhibit D) ..........................$126,138.31
Covina (Exhibit E) .......................... 108,262.58 $234,40Q.89
'·"··

Outside relief and care:
Outside relief ~...........;.........................$ 14,178.00
Outside care of children-Covina.. 2,566.51
Funeral expenses-excess over reimbursements ..........................................
Contribution to Endowment Fund........
Administrative and general expense:
· Taxes ....::.................'"......:...:,........;.......$
Insurance ............................................
Field investigation expense:
Northern district ......................
Southern district ........................
Secretary's and assistant secretary's salaries ·..............................
Trustees' expense ...............................
Auditing .....................,...........................

3,607.56
2,164.88
2,224.51
3,665.88
1,800.00
784.01
550.00

16,744.51
478.46
1,000.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

482

Safekeeping of securities .....• ~ .......... :
Office supplies and printing ......... .
Miscellaneous -··--····-··--·---··:..: .. ~---·-······

250.00
242.19
385.08

483

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
·Farm produce consumed ................. ,......................$
Farm produce sold outside ·-·················---····-·-·······
Discount on purchases ............................................

15,674..fr

Total expense ······-·······-····-······-··--··--···--···-···-··--························ 268,297.97
Excess of revenue over expense .........•. ;.....: .......................................:$

1,758.52

726.80
1,702.25
753.16

3,182.21

Net operating expense ............................................................................$108,262.58
*Note: Total operating expense includesCash expenditures, per Exhibit A .............................................. $107,271.38
Plus non-cash items:
726.80
(b) Farm produce consumed ···-··········-······-········································
753.16
(c) Discount on purchases ·········---···············-·····--··-······-·······················
704.60
(d) Water charges applied on note ............. :......................................
1,988.85
(e) Reduction in inventory of stores................................................
(a)

Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Operating Expense (Decoto) less Sundry Direct
~evenue Received for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
*Operating expense:
Maintenance ···························-·······-········'. .................$ 72,887.96
Hospital ····················-······--·····················--···················· 11,954.14
Farm ·······-·····--····--·······················'······---···:·-···-·····---······
4,880.51
Laundry -················--·-······-·····--················-····················
4,143.29
General and administrative:
Salaries and wages ..................$ 19,590.29
Expense ........................................ 17,164.51
36,754.80

Total as above :...........................................................................$111,444.79

Total (refer to Schedule D-1 for details) .................................... $130,620.70
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed •······'················--··-······-···-$ 3,940.24
17.05
Farm produce sold outside ··-·-·······························
391.35
Farm rent ··········-··-·-···'·-·····················-···········-··-·-···--133.75
Salvage sales ........'. ...., ..................................................

4,482.39

Net operating expense ········-··-····'-···--···--····························--··-···············$126,138.31
*Note: Total operating expense includes(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit A ....................................$128,580.35
(b) Less expenditures fot increase in inventory of s'tores....
1,899.89
(c)

Schedule D-1
Distribution of Operating Expenses in Detail at Decoto
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
Maintenance ExpenseFood:
Groceries ...........................................:....$ 7,386.18
8,683.58
Meat··········-··········--·······-·······················
561.70
Fish ·······-··-··········--·······························
3,101.14
Provisions, including cured meats ..
Fruit and vegetables ....................... . 7,720.17
Butter, milk and eggs ..... :................ 14,594.65
Bakers' supplies ................................ 2,673.39 $ 44,720.81

Net cash for expenses .............................................................. $1Z6,680.46
Plus non-cash item:
Farri produce consumed ··············-··-·-·---······························
3,940.24

Total as above .........................-.......................................................,... $130,620.70

,,
Exhibit E
Statement of Direct Operating Expense (Covina) Less Sundry Direct
Revenue Received for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
*Operating expense:
Maintenance (care of children) ............................ $. 97,520.59
Administrative expense ··-----···-········'···············-········ 10,734.16
Farm expense -··-----····-···-·······················-·····-··-··········
3,190.04
Total (refer to Schedule E-1 for details) .....,.......:...............,$111,444.79

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries and wages ............................ $ 13,589.02
Operating expense ··-············-···-··········
9,892.46

23,481.48

Clothing and sundry:
Medical supplies ...... ;.........................$
Dental ................................................... .
Clothing .......;·'··-··································
Shoes ....................................................
Bedding ....................................... ,....... .

4,685.67

1,106.38
1,279.10
694.68
321.31
1,284.20

Total.. ........................................................................,........._. ...•.$ 72,887.96
Hospital exp.ense:
Salaries and wages ........................ ,........................... $ 11,549.13
11,954.14
405.01
Miscellaneous expense ···---········································
Farm expense:
,
Salaries and wages ••.•......,.,.............................. ~ ......~.$ 1,418.50
4.63
Tools and equipment .............................................. .'..
. 61.42
Seeds ............................................................................
Feed .............................................................................. 2,577.25
818.71
Miscellaneo'ts expense ·····--········-············--················

----

Total..........................................................................................

4,880.51

484

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Laundry expense:
Salaries and wages _ :·~····················:............_........•...$
Miscellaneous expense ..............................................

3,136.03
1,007.26

Total.......,...................:........- .....................................:.~............

4,143.29

General expenseSalaries and wages ....................... :...........................:........$ 19,590.29
Other expense :
Light, heat, power and water..........$ 9,670.00
Plant repairs · and maintenance........
1,414.72
Freight and expense ..........................
332.96
Office supplies and printing..............
465.oo
Furniture and equipment replacements ............................................
1,213.68
Telephone and telegraph ..................
713.93
Miscellaneous expense ...................... 3,354.22

16,278.37

Hospital:
Doctors' and dentists' fees ..............$ 2,378.16
Salaries and wages ........................... . 2,065.32
Medical supplies and drugs ............ 2,459.51
Other supplies and expense ............
807.31
Outside hospital, x-rays, glasses, etc. 1,116.02

8,826.32

School supplies ···········-·r····················-$
Tonsorial service ................................
Miscellaneous ....................................
Domestic science cottage ................
Automobile expense ..........................

114.97
265.37
1,128.25
368.89
472.67

3,350.15

General house and property expense :
Power house:
Salaries and wages .........•..............$
Fuel oil, waste and lubricants ......
Equipment additions ....................
Supplies and replacements ..........

2,921.99
1,448.97
463.71
1,952.33

6,787.00

Repairs to buildings:
Salaries and wages ........•.............$
Plumbing repairs ············- ············
Supplies and replacements ......... .

1,236.58
1,627.66
1,748.74

4,613.98

Care of grounds :
Salaries and wages ...............:......$
Supplies and expense ....................

1,495.95
460.62

1,956.57

General expense:
Gas, water and light ......................$ 6,376.48
Automobile expense ......................
274.67
Equipment additions-interphone
system .......................................... 1,337.02
Miscellaneous expense .................. 3,634.76

11,622.93

17,164.51

Total operating expenses (Decoto) ......................................................$130,620.70

Schedule E-1
Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail at Covina for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941

5,447.93
3,135.71
3,144.99
5,578.93
1,767.60
192.20
2,824.11
4,505.80 $ 26,597.27

Kitchen and dining room :
Salaries and wages ............................$ 6,839.13
Equipment additions ....~ ......................
600.00
Supplies and replacements .............. 3,168.57

Dormitories :
Salaries and wages ............................$ 12,490.11
Supplies and repairs .......................... 3,788.26

General expense:

Tofal..,..,.........................:...:...................................................... 36,754.80

Care of childrenF ood :
Meats ···········'········ ··········-.--~..................$
Fresh fruits and vegetables ............
Canned goods ........,.............................
Butter, milk and eggs ........................
Bakery supplies ..................................
Cereals ..................................................
Other groceries ..................................
Outside meals ......................................

485

Total care of children..........................................................$ 97,520.59
10,607.70

Clothing :
Ready to wear .'. ..................................$ 2,679.18
Cleaning and repairs ........................
1,128.20
Dry goods and notions ....................
422.90

4,230.28

Laundry :
Salaries and wages ............................$ 1,708.91
Supplies and repairs ..........................
941.11

2,650.02

Administrative expenseSala~ies-Superin~en_dent and office ...:.............•............$

Stat10nery and prmtmg .•..................................................
Postage .................................................................................
T elephone and telegraph ................................................
Traveling expense ..............................................................
Automobile expense ..........................................................
Miscellaneous expense ......................................................
F r eight and express ..........................................................
Office equipment .......................................................:....... .

7,374.14
634.97
542.90
662.97
141.10
343.20
778.10
165.68
91.10

Total administrative expense......................................................

10,734.16

486

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Farm expenseOrchard:
Salaries and wages ...........................,$
Supplies and expense ....................... .
Tractor fuel ....................................... .

556.58
418.80
64.90

$ 1,040.28

Poultry:
Salaries and wages ............................ $
Feed ......................................................
Supplies and expense ....................... .

51.05
719.86
208.59

979.50

Pigs:
Feed - ....... :.................... :.., ....................$
Supplies and expense .... ,•..................

296.94
268.56

565.50

General farm expense:
Miscellaneous expense ............................................ ..

604.76

Total farm expense..................................................................

3,190.04

Total operating expenses (Covina) .~ ..................................................$111,444.79

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home

To the Board of Trustees,
Masonic Homes of California:
The year of 1941 having drawn to a close, it becomes my duty and a
privilege to submit at this time my first report of the management and
operation of the Home.
Previous reports have, from year to year, traced the development of
the Home. Its fundamentals have become stabilized. Its existence has
become a secure fact, and the management will, I assure you, endeavor
to keep pace with every new development in the care of the aged.
At the beginning of the year, there were 322 residents; 34 were admitted during the year, at an average age of 73.06; 50 passed away, the ·
average age being 77.40; there were 6 departures and 1 withdrawal. Of
the 300 in the Home, 143 are women, and 157 are men, including 21 married
couples. There are
4 residents between the ages of 50 to 60,
71 residents between the ages of 60 to 70,
138 residents between the ages of 70 to 80,
83 residents between the ages of 80 to 90,
4 residents between the ages of 90 to 100.
The average age at this time is 75.68 years for nien, and 74.61 for women.
Advancing years bring with them ever increasing demands for greater
service to those who are blind, crippled, infirm, or otherwise unable to care
for themselves.
The hospital department is under the supervision of one registered
nurse, Miss Esther G. Payne, who, with a corps of able assistants, render
kind and faithful serviCe to those who find it necessary to be in the hospital. Dr. P. P. Osburn is in charge of the medical work.

487

At present there are about 50 in the hospital, most of whom are infirm and feeble. The fact that we have so few in this department would
indicate that a large percentage of our guests are enjoying fairly good
health. In an attempt to render better service to our patients, we have
added a Cold Quartz Ultra Violet Ray machine and a Short Wave Generator Lube! Florsheim machine. This department has been renovated and
brightened with a new coat of paint.
The Matron, Mrs. LOfd, is in charge ·of all departments in connection
with the care and comfort of the residents. Assistance is rendered cheerfully and impartially where needed.
The kitchen and dining room are among the more important departments. An attempt is being made to plan better balanced meals.
With the assistance of our steward, I am very hopeful that there will be
a satisfactory imp.rovement very soon. In this department we have had
. all the ice-boxes put in first-class condition, and have a dish-washing machine ordered, which we hope will be installed soon.
The laundry contributes much to the operation of the Home by providing fresh, clean clothing and linen.
The grounds and flower gardens are cared for by one paid gardener
with the assistance of many of the residents, and they present an appearance that is very attractive.
The heating plant operates very efficiently under the supervision of an
engineer. He has a paid fireman and two residents assisting him, and
with this assistance he is able to take care of the plumbing and electrical
work. This department has checked all the fire-fighting equipment and recharged all the chemicals.
The farm land has been leased on a share basis to several people, and
the returns have been fairly good. This arrangement was not entirely
satisfactory; therefore, the Trustees have decided to lease the land on a cash
basis to one responsible party.
The portion of land that is retained for the Home's use supplies quite
a few of the vegetables and berries, and also an abundance of fruit during
the fruit season. The chicken ranch supplies a good portion of our eggs
and an occasional chicken dinner.
We have disposed of three of the old cars which were in use here at
the Home and have replaced them with a new station wagon. This acquisition has enabled us to supply comfortable transportation for our guests.
We are also able to convert it into an ambulance when the occasion requires.
A gasoline pump has been installed to service our own cars.
Our old well-pump, which has been in service for many years, is
being replaced with a new modern one. Inefficient operation on the part of
the old pump and expensive repairs necessitated this installation.
The road leading from the Decoto Highway into the Home's grounds,
which was damaged by the heavy rains last winter, has been put in firstcl'.Lss shape.
During the year many splendid entertainments have been provided by
visiting Lodges, Eastern Star Chapters, Job's Daughters, and friends for
the entertainment of the Home folk. Outstanding among them were the
East Bay Past Matrons' Association, who entertained the residents with a
fine program, introduced the present Grand Officers, and then presented
the Home with enough jams, jellies, blankets and other articles to last
a year, and the Sojourner's Ceremony, under the direction of Colonel Jesse
M. Whited. At the conclusion of the Ceremony, which was very impres-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sively exemplified by the officers of that organization, they presented the
Home with a beautiful flag.
Through friends and members of the Fraternity, we have received
many contributions of magazines, books, papers and periodicals. These
were placed on the shelves of our library by our very efficient librarians
and are enjoyed by many of our guests.
Through the courtesy of the San Francisco Film Distributing Companies we are able to entertain our guests with movies every Thursday
evening, for which we tender our grateful thanks and appreciation.
Devotional services are conducted in the Auditorium every Sunday.
Dr. W. A. Pankey of Hayward is in charge of the arrangement. We want
to assure him and the kind gentlemen who conduct these services that we
appreciate very much their interest in our behalf.
I am fully aware of the fact that the responsibilities of the Home will
increase from year to year. It will not be my policy to follow in the footsteps of the past, but to mold the approaching problems of the Home into
policies of the future. I assure you of my willingness to accept suggestions,
and that when changes can be made to make these policies more in keeping
with the best, it i·s my purpose to do so.
May I say that our Matron, our staff and myself are very grateful
for the many courtesies extended to us by the Board of Trustees.

April 6, 1941-Church Service, Dr. McCall, Speaker. Mt. Eden Presbyterian Church.
April 13, 1941-Church Service, Rev. John W. Winkley, Speaker.
Methodist minister of Hayward.
April 18, 1941-Program by children of Niles Grammar School, Niles,
Miss Stadeck, teacher.
April 20, 1941-Church Service by Lutheran Youth's Conference,
Oakland.
April 20, 1941-0riental Lodge No. 144, San Francisco. Visitation
by Officers and members.
April 27, 1941-Church Service. Rev. Richard C. Day, Speaker. Niles
Congregational Church, Niles.
April 27, 1941-Unity Chapter No. 65, 0. E . S., Oakland. Lunch and
program.
May 4, 1941-Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto. Sunday Service.
Special music.
May 11, 1941-Church Service, Rev. John W. Winkley, Speaker.
Methodist minister of Hayward.
May 11, 1941-San Francisco Chapter, Order of DeMolay, Henry
Jacobs, Senior Councilor. Mother's Day ceremony.
May 13, 1941-Washington Evening High School, Newark. Stage
play.
May 18, 1941-Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento. Visitation by Officers, members and their families.
May 19, 1941-Decoto Grammar School, Decoto. Mr. Music, Principal. Entertainment.
May 24, 1941-Monterey Lodge No. 217, Monterey. Entertainment.
May 25, 1941-Church Service, Rev. Richard C. Day, Speaker. Congregational Church, Niles.
May 25, 1941-Redwood City Lodge No. 168, Redwood City. Entertainment.
June 1, 1941--Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto, Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Speaker. Ashland Presbyterian Church.
June 8, 1941-King Solomon's Chapter No. 170, 0. E. S., San Francisco. Entertainment.
June 8, 1941-0rder of Job's Daughters, San Francisco. Devotional
services.
June 15, 1941-Church Service, Rev. W. A. Pankey, Speaker. First
Presbyterian Church, Hayward.
June 15, 1941-Justice Lodge No. 549, San Francisco. Visitacion of
Officers, members and their families.
June 21, 1941-Apollo Lodge No. 396, Woodstock Lodge No. 491,
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, Alameda. A varied program of entertainment.
June 22, 1941-Church Service, Rev. R. C. Day, Speaker. Niles Congregational Church.
June 22, 1941-Concord Lodge No. 117. Visitation of Officers, members
and their families.
June 29, 1941-Church Service, Rev. H. R. Jeschke, Speaker. San
Bruno.
J41Y 6, 1941-Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto, Rev. Henry McCall,
Speaker. Mount Eden Presbyterian Church.

488

J. R. EUBANKS, S1,perintendent.

Visitation to Decoto Home
January 2, 1941-San Luis Obispo High School Band, San Luis
Obispo. Conc~rt.
January 5, 1941-Church Service. Hoyt Hamilton, Speaker. Christian
Endeavor Society, Ashland Presbyterian Church.
February 2, 1941-Church Service. Dr. H . J. McCall, Speaker. Christian Endeavor Society, Decoto.
February 16, 1941-Church Service. Rev. John W. Winkley, Speaker.
Methodist minister of Hayward.
February 23, 1941-Church Service. Rev. Carrol H . Pederson,
Speaker, Pleasanton.
March 2, 1941-Church Service. E. Hinman of Oakland, Speaker.
Christian Endeavor Society, Decato.
March 14, 1941-Park Lodge No. 449, San Francisco. Second Degree
in the Temple.
March 16, 1941-Church Service. Rev. W. A. Pankey, Speaker. First
Presbyterian Church, Hayward.
March 23, 1941-Church Service. Rev. Fred B. Trevitt of Oakland,
Speaker.
March 25, 1941-R. H. Cross, talk on early public stopping places
in California.
March 26, 1941-Christian Church, Hayward. Sta~e play.
March 30, 1941-Church Service. Rev. Jackson R. Webster, Speaker.
First Presbyterian Church, Newark, Pastor of Washington Township
Parish.
·
April 4, 1941-Campbell High School Band, auspices Charity Lodge
No. 362. Entertainment.

489

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

July 13, 1941-San Francisco Chapter No. 18, National Sojourners.
Address and presentation of flag.
July 13, 1941-San Mateo Pyramid of Sciot's Band, San Mateo. Concert.
July 15, 1941-San Mateo Lodge No. 226, San Mateo. Exemplification
of Second Degree.
July 20, 1941-Church Service, Rev. Jackson R. Webster, Speaker.
First Presbyterian Church of Newark, Pastor of Washington Township
Parish.
July 27, 1941-Church Service, Rev. R. C. Day, Speaker. Niles Congregational Church, Niles.
August 3, 1941-Church Service. Miss Lamb, Christian Endeavor
Society, Decoto.
August 10, 1941-Church Services. Rev. John W. Winkley, Speaker.
Methodist minister of Hayward.
August 10, 1941-Chaplain's Association, San Francisco. Visit •to the
Home.
August 17, 1941-Church Service. Rev. W. A. Pankey, Speaker. First
Presbyterian Church, Hayward.
August 23, 1941-0akland Lodge No. 188, Oakland. Visitation and
entertainment.
August 24, 1941-Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219, San Francisco.
Visitation and entertainment.
-August 31, 1941-Church Service. Rev. H . R. Jeschke, Speaker. San
Bruno Congregational Church, San Bruno, California.

Mrs. R. H. Vinding, Oakland-Large bundle miscellaneous magazines.
Crescent Lodge No. 45, Crescent City-10 redwood trees.
W. C. Smith; Decoto-1 package trees.
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244, Berkeley-100 cigars, ice cream.
Henrietta Damkroeger, Decoto-1 flat top office desk, 1 wardrobe trunk.
E. W. Laub, Oakland-1 large package miscellaneous magazines.
Mrs. Harvey Jensen, Oakland-1 box oranges, 2 boxes candy.
Hansen Lumber Co., Niles-1 Christmas tree.
Lee H. Newbert, District Manager Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Oakland
-12 Pictorial California and Pacific magazines, 12 Spur magazines, 2 packages miscellaneous magazines, 1 package Life, Newsweek and Pathway
magazines.
Martinez Lodge No. 41, Martinez-24 packages miscellaneous articles.
Ted Still, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260, San Francisco-2~ pounds
smoking tobacco, 1 dozen packages Brewster's smoking tobacco.
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44, San Frartcisco-2 large packages miscellaneous magazines.
C. W. Siegel, San Francisco-I overcoat, large package miscellaneous
magazines.
Oroville .L odge No. 103, Oroville-10 gals. ripe olives.
Pratt Mortuary, Hayward-2 Poinsettia plants.
J . W. Staley, Martinez-1 sweater coat.
San Jose Order of Rainbow for Girls Assembly No. 5, San Jose320 Christmas table favors.
Lindsay Lodge No. 416, Lindsay-20 boxes oranges.
Coachella Lodge No. 476, Coachella-30 lbs. Coachella dates.
Alfred ]. Thibodeau, San Francisco-1 box magazines and books.
Benson Smith Co. Ltd., Honolulu, T. H.-6 glasses jelly, 1 lb. Wing
coffee, 1 lei.
Mrs. E. G. Jansen, San Francisco-10 copies Readers Digest.
Mrs. T. J. Rassette-The History of Our Country, 9 vols., Harvard
Classics 20 vols., The World's 100 Best Stories (Humor) 10 vols., The Wit
and Humor of America, 10 vols., Conan Doyle's Best Books, 3 vols., 33
little leather bound books of' verses and classics, 17 miscellaneous booksfiction, poetry, etc.
Nat Goldstone, Elmhurst Lodge No. 610, Elmhurst-! lot magazines.
F. V. Nelson, Petaluma Lodge No. 180, Petaluma-I overcoat.
Florence Sawyer, Los Gatos-1 ear trumpet.
H. D. Oliphant, Oakland-3 suits, 1 coat, 1 smoking jacket.
J. T. Fraser, Past Grand Master, Eureka-50 small redwood trees.
First Church of Christ, Scientist, Hayward-Christian Science Monitor, Christian Science Sentinel, Christian Science Journal, each month.
Lieut. Commander G. P. Smallman, U. S. Navy, Los Gatos-2 packages Life magazines.
Capt. H. L. Jones, Sebastopol-1 package Readers Digest, The Womans
Digest, Magazine Digest and Review.
Theodore Wetzel, Oakland-1 package periodicals.
Wm. ]. Ladd, Los Angeles-1 flute.

490

Donations to Decoto Home
East Bay Past Matron's Association-21 night shirts, 48 table scarfs,
12 comforters, 6 cushions, 10 bureau scarfs, 6 chair cushions, 12 hospital
gowns (flannelette), 175 baskets of assorted fruits.
P. H. Wetzel, large bundle of magazines.
Mary E. Partridge Chapter 0. E. S.-15 jars of jams and jellies.
Walter A. Scott, San Francisco-8 pairs of ladies' shoes.
0. W. Brink, Oakland-25 miscellaneous magazines.
E. T. Ewert, Seaport Lodge No. 550, San Francisco-6· bundles miscellaneous magazines.
W. F. FHerl, Hayward-Large lot of miscellaneous magazines.
Chico Lodge No. 111-43 boxes of grapes.
General Food Sales-111 boxes (50 to a box) Ten Strike Cereal.
R. S. Atkins, San Francisco-1 carton of hats.
]. G. Brown, Oakland-2 packages of magazines.
Herman Knockenhaur-1 deer head, mounted.
B. Baker and F. Zweifel, Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San FranciscoSeveral large bundles miscellaneous magazines, 52 phonograph records,
shoes.
Estella White Nichols, Alameda Chapter No. 386, 0. E. S.-2 jars of
preserves.
Irving Sander, San Francisco-17 puzzle pictures, jig saw puzzles.
Morning Star Lodge No. 68, Stockton-175 copies National Geographic
magazines, 6 copies World's Work.

491

492

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

H. C. Robb, Oakland-16 copies Life magazine, also miscellaneous
magazines.
Librarian, Scottish Rite, Oakland-3 years New Age Magazine, 1938,
1939, 1940.
Mrs. ]. C. Dunham, Reno, Nevada-14 pairs shoes, 6 suits, summer.
clothes, 6 coats, 6 pairs paints, underwear, box of straw and felt hats.
C. R. Statler, Alameda-9 copies Railroad magazine.
Mrs. Maud Timbrell, Oakland-2 years miscellaneous magazines, 1 large
package miscellaneous magazines.
P. A. Monteiro, Oakland-Large package magazines.
Mrs. L. L. Test, Pasadena--,-Magazines.
Mrs. W. C. Berkholts, Fresno-Package magazines.
.
Wallace W. Glossen, Piedmont-1 large package Fortune magazine.
Signal Chapter No. 276, 0. E. S.-1 year's subscription McCall's
magazine.
George B. Lake, Past Master, Oriental Lodge No. 144-1 year's
subscription Saturday Evening Post.
The Warmer Association of 1938 of Upper San Joaquin and their
sponsor-18 dish towels.
Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San Francisco--Magazines and women's
clothing.
Miss A. M. Crellin, Berkeley-29 jig saw puzzles.
D. I. Maddox, Liberty Lodge No. 299, Santa Clara-History of
Masonry, 4 vols.
Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento-2 large packages miscellaneous
magazines.
Mr. and Mrs. Ashworth, Crows Landing-Large package miscellaneous
magazines.
Occidental Lodge No. 22, San Francisco-4 hats, 1 bundle Liberty
magazines, 2 bundles Life magazines, 1 bundle Detective magazines, 1
bundle Collier's and Saturday Evening Post magazines.
Mrs. Theodore Wetzel, Jr., San Francisco-4 shirts,
pair khaki
trousers, 1 suit, 1 extra pair trousers, 2 suspenders.
Justice Lodge No. 549, San Francisco--200 Optimo cigars.
Mrs. 0. C. Markwell, Hayward-Christian Science papers and periodicals.
Mr. Brooks, Oa~land-1 bundle of magazines.
Raymond L. Wild, Oakland-1 large lot of magazines.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346-6 jars assorted preserves, 4 packages cigarettes.
Mr. Bucamp, Superintendent of Claridge Hotel, Oakland-I large
carton tooth powder and paste.
Dr. D. G. Wallace, Oakland-I large carton of tooth powder and
paste.
J. W. Bassford, Oakland Lodge No. 188, Oakland-200 pounds pears,
Mrs. G. E . West, San Leandro--4 pairs of shoes, 2 caps, 3 pairs of
pajamas, 5 shirts, 2 suits.
Miss Elizabeth Metzer, Palo Alto-I dozen jars of fruit and jelly.
F. Lapzies, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30, San Francisco-Large package of Geographic and miscellaneous magazines.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

493

Gene Bros. & Lane, Inc., San Francisco-- 3 yards Fabrikoid.
Lars Graven, San Francisco-4 copies International Conciliation,
Readers Digest, 1 Volume by Lord Lloyd of Doloman, 1 volume by John
Bucham.
Mr. Bruner, Oakland-II copies Time.
Louis Mendelsohn, M. D., San Francisco--! · Relax bed-pan with compliments of the James D. Phelan Fund.
Paul Nathan, Pacific Lodge No. 136, San Francisco-! book of records;
"The Man with the Hoe," by Edwin Markham.
Frank E . Brenneman, Laurel Lodge No. 245, Willows-3 large packages of miscellaneous magazines.
East Bay Past Matrons' Association-3,416 glasses of jams and jellies,
116 scarfs, 23 comforters, 76 hospital gowns, 6 hemmed dish towels.
Mrs. Jean Kirder, Richmond-I bathrobe, 2 pairs of slippers, 1 bottle
Vegetal, 1 can talcum, 1 shaving brush, 1 razor strop, 3 hats, 3 pairs shoes,
2 suits, 1 pair of rubbers, shirts, underwear, eye-glasses.
Chapter No. 18, National Sojourners, San Francisco--! large United
States Bunting Flag.
Mrs. Charles McFarland, San Francisco--2 suits, 2 pairs shoes, I overalls, I pair slippers, 2 dress shirts, 2 pajamas, 7 neckties, 8 pairs socks, I
pair suspenders, I pair garters, 4 pairs drawers, 2 undershirts, 2 pairs gloves,
1 overcoat, shaving brush and cream, 2 hats, 2 work shirts, 1 belt.
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219, San Francisco-4 boxes cigars,
2 boxes candy.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home

Lodge
No. Amt.
Acorn ........................,..... 4Q4 $10.00
A. F . E. Irwin .................645
5.00
Alameda ................. 1........ 167
10.00
Alamo .................., ........... 122
5.00
Alcatraz .......................... 244
10.00
Alexander Graham
Bell .............................. 595
5.00
Alexandria ...................... 531
5.00
Alisa! ................................ 321
5.00
All States ........................593
10.00
Amador ............................ 65
6.75
Amity .............................. 370
17.50
Antioch ................ ,........... 175
5.00
Apollo ..............................396
10.00
Arcata ... :........................... 106
5.00
Argonaut ....................... :461
10.00
Argonne .......................... 514
10.00
Artesia ............................377
5.00
Ashlar .............................. 306
5.00
Atascadero ..................... .493
5.00
Ath~ns ........................... .228
5.00
Azusa ................................ 305
5.00
Bakersfield ......................224
12.50
Balder ... :........................... 393
12.50
Barstow ............................682
5.00
Bay City ........................ 526
10.00

Lodge
No.
Bay View .: ..................... .401
Bear Mountain .............. 76
Bell .................................. 483
Berkeley .......................... 363
Blackmer ......................... .442
Brooklyn .......................... 225
Buckeye .. ,........................ .195
Burlingame ......................400
Cahuenga ......•................. 513
Calaveras ........................ 78
Calexico ......... ,,. ................412
Caledonia ....................... .486
Callayomi ........................ .282
Carquinez ........................337
Charity ............................362
Charter Rock .:............. .410
Chico .... ,. ........................... 111
Clay ................................. .101
Colusa ............... :..............240
Compass .......................... 5510
Confidence ....................... 203
Corcoran ..........................490
Corinthian ...................... 9
Corona ............................324
Coronado ........................ 441
Covenant .......................... 527

Amt.
20.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.85
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
6.25
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

494

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Crescent .......................... 45
Crockett .......................... 139
Culver City .................... ..467
Cupertino ....,................... 510
Curtis .............................. 140
Damascus ........................ 648
Delta ............................... .471
Diablo ..................... :....... .448
Dimond ............................ 603
Dinuba .............................. 385
Doric ............................... .216
Dos Palos ........................681
Downey ..........................220
Dunsmuir ........................297
Durant .............................. 268
East Bay ....................... .489
East Belt ........................ 391
East Gate ...................... 290
East San Diego ............ 561
Eden ······························'·113
El Cajon ........................ 576
El Centro ........................ 384
El Dorado ........................ 26
Elmhurst ........................ 610
El Segundo .................... 507
Elsinore .......................... 289
Elysian ........................... .418
Enterprise ........................ 70
Eureka .............................. 16
Evergreen ..................... .259
Excelsior .......................... 166
Fairmount ......................435
Fallbrook ........................ 317
Far West ......................673
Ferndale .......................... 193
Fillmore .......................... 379
Fidelity ............................ 120
Fort Crook .................... 575
Fortitude ........................624
Francis Drake .............. 376
Franklin .......................... 143"
Fremont ................... ,......497
Fresno .............................. 247
Friendship ..................... .210
Fruitvale .......................... 336
Galt .................................. 267
George Washington .... 525
Gold Hill ........................ 32
Golden Gate .................. 30
Golden Rule ................. .479
Guardian ........................ 596
Hammonton ................... .433
Hanford ......................•...279
Hartley ............................ 199
Hawaiian ........................ 21

Amt.
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
12.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
12.50
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
2.50
25.00
10.00
5.00
25.00

Lodge
No.
Henry Clay .................... 95
Henry Knox .................. 662
Henry Morse
Stephens ...................... 541
Henry S. Orme ............. .458
Hermann ........................ 127
Highland Park ................ 382
Hills Ferry ..................... .236
Hiram .............................. 43
Hollenbeck ...................... 319
Hollywood ...................... 355
Holtville ..........................425
Honolulu .•..................... .409
Howard ..............•............. 37
Humboldt ........................ 79
Illinoistown .................... 51
Indian Rock .................... 638
Ione .................................. 80
Jewel ................................ 374
Jonathan ....'...................... 545
John P. Jarman ............ 669
Jubilee ·······'······················604
Kauai ................................ 589
Kaweah ..........................665
King David's ............... .209
La Brea ..........................650
Lakeshore ........ :............. 551
Landmark ........................ 253
La Fayette ...................... 126
La Jolla ............................ 518
Las Palmas .u .....•.•••••..••• 366
La Parfaite Union ........ 17
Laurel .............................. 245
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ............•......... 371
Libertas .. :.......................466
Liberty ............................299
Live Oak ........................ 61
Lodi ................................. .256
Lomita ............................ 644
Long Beach .................... 327
Los Angeles .................. 42
Los Gatos ....................... .292
Madera ........................... .280
Madison .......................... 23
Malta ................................661
Marin ................................ 191
Maricopa ....................... .434
Martinez ........................ 41
Meridian ....... :..................667
Midway ......................... .426
Mill Valley .................... 356
Mission · ........................... .169
Modesto ..........................675
Molino .................. J••••••••••• 150

Amt.
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
1:100
5.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
,5.00
5.00
25.00
12.50
5.00
5.00

Lodge

No.

Monterey ....................... .217
Mosaic ............................218
Morgan' Hill ................. .463
Mount Moriah .............. 44
Mount Oso ......................460
Mountain View .............. 194
McKinley ...................... 347
Natoma .......... :................. 64
Naval .............................• 87
Needles ............................ 326
Nevada ............................ 13
Nicolaus ......................... .129
Norwalk .......................... 315
Oak Grove ......................215
Oakland .......................... 188
Ocean Park ......... ,.......... 369
Occidental ...................... 22
Olive Branch ................. .269
Oriental .... :..................... 144 .
Orland .............................. 265
Oxnard ............................ 341
Pacific .............................. 136
Pacific Grove .................. 331
Pajaro .::.: ......................... 110
Palestine .......................... 351
Palisades .......................... 637
Palo Alto ........................ 346
Palos Verdes ........... :...... 389
Park ................................. .449
Parnassus ·········'··············388
Pasadena .......................... 372
Paso Robles ................... .286
Paul · Revere ................. .462
Penrhyn ......................... .258
Perris .... :............. ,.............411
Petaluma ......................... .180
Phoenix .......................... 178
Piedmont ........................ 521
Pinole ......•....................... 353
Pittsburg ....................... .429
Plumas .............................. 60
Poinsettia ........................ 633
Point ............... .'................ 503
Point Firmin .................. 558
Point Loma .................... 620
Pomona ........................... .246
Reading ......................... .254
Redondo ...................... ~ ... 328
Redwood ~ity ................ 168
Richmond ...................... 375
Rising Light ............. !...... 397
Riverside ..........................635
Rockridge .................... ..468
Roosevelt ....................... .500
Roseville ............•........ ., ..• 222

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00 .
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
7.50
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Lodge

495

No.

Russian River ............... .181
Sacramento ...................... 40
Salinas ............................. .204
San Benito ...................... 211
San Bernardino .............. 348
San Diego ...................... 35
San Fernando .............. 343
San Francisco ................ 360
San Gabriel .................... 546
San Gorgonio ................668
San Jacinto .................... 338
San Jose ........................ 10
San Mateo ..................... .226
San Miguel ...................... 285
San Pedro ........................ 332
San Simeon .................... 196
Santa Ana ......................241
Santa Barbara ................ 192
Santa Cruz ...................... 38
Santa Maria .................. 580
Santa Monica ................ 307
Seaport ............................ 550
Searchlight ...................... 567
Security .......................... 581
Selma ................................277
Semper Virens ................ 552
Sequoia ....................... :.. 349
Service .............................. 594
Signal ................................ 543
Silver Gate ..................... .296
Silver Trowel ................. .415
Silveyville ........................201
Snow Mountain ........... :..271
Southern California ..... .278
South San Francisco .... 212
South Pasadena ............ 367
South West ....................283
Speranza Italiana ......... .219
Standard .......... :.............. .440
Stanislaus ........................ 206
Starr King ...................... 344
St. Helena ........................ 93
Suisun .........................•.... 55
Sun Garden .................... 530
Sunnyvale ...................... 511
S. W. Hackett ................ 574
Table Mountain ............ 124
Taft ...........~ ...................... 516
Tehachapi ..................... :313
Tehama······'·············:....... 3
Temblor ..........................477
Texas ................................ 46
Thousand Oaks ........... .478
Torrance ........................ .:447 ·
Trinity .............................. 27

Amt.
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00

496

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amt.
Lodge
No.
5.00
Truckee .............. :...... _...200
Tuolumne ...................... 8 15.00
10.00
Tuscan -·····················'······261
12.50
Union ................................ 58
5.00
Vacaville ......................... .134
10.00
Vallejo ............ :...............487
2.50
Veritas ............................640
5.00
Victorville ........................634
10.00
Visalia ..........................-l28
5.00
Washington .................... 198
10.00
White Pine ...................... 555

Amt.
Lodge
No.
5.00
Western Star .................. 2
7.50
Willow Glen ..................676
5.00
Wilmington .................... 198
5.00
Woodland ..................•.....156
2.50
Woodbridge ....................13-1
5.00
Woodstock ....................491
5.00
Yerba Buena ..................403
2.50
Yolo .................................. 81
5.00
Yosemite .. :.......................99
2.50
Yount ................................ 12

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Commandery
No. A mt.
5.00
Pasadena
..........................
31
Al;meda .......................... 58
2.50
Sacramento .................... 2
Auburn ............................ 52
5.00
San Diego ........................ 25
Bakersfield ...................... 39
San Francisco ................ 41
California ........................ 1 25.00
5.00
San Jose ........................ 10
Calvary ............................ 62
5.00
San Pedro ...................... 60
Colusa .............................. 24
2.50
Santa Cruz ..................•. 44
Fresno .............................. 29
5.00
Santa Rosa ...................... 14
Golden West ················- 43
Southern California ...... 37
Hollywood ...................... 56 · 10.00
5.00
St. Bernard ...................... 23
Marysville ...................... 7
5.00
Ukiah .............................. 33
Mount Shasta .................. 32
5.00
Vacaville .......................... 38
Naval ................................ 19
2.50
Ventura ............................ 18
Nevada.............................. 6
10.00
Watsonville .. :................. 22
Oakland •...... ~ .................... 11
Woodland ........................ 21
Oroville .......................... 5 10.00

Amt.
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
. 5.00

Chapters, R. A . M.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
5.00
Marin .............................. 102
10.00
Martinez .......................... 31
5.00
Mill Valley ...... ~ ...............108
5.00
Nevada.............................. 6
5.00
Oakland ............................ 36
2.50
San Francisco ................ 1
5.00
Ontario ............................ 105
5.00
Santa Cruz ...................... 38
5.00
Siloam .............................. 37
5.00
South Gate .............. ,....... 98
5.00
South Pasadena ............112
2.50
St. Helena ................... .,. 63
25.00
Sutter .............................. 11
10.00
Washington .................... 13
5.00
Wilmington .................... 141
10.00
Woodland ........................ 46

Amt.
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.501
5.00
2.50
5.00

Chapter
No.
Antioch ............................ 65
Chico ... ._ ..............•............ 42
Colusa .............................. 60
Crown ............................. , 72
Cyrus .................... :........... 15
Delta ................................ 27
Donner .............................. 39
Doric ................................ 66
El Centro ........................ 109
Ferndale •......................... 78
Fidelity .. :......................... 96
Grass Valley .................. 18
Hanford .......................... 74
Howard ............................ 14
Keystone ........................ 56
La Purissima ................104

Co-uncils, R. & S. M.
Co1mcil
No.
Council
No. Amt.
Pasadena
..........................
16
5.00
Pomona ............................ 21
California ........................ 2
2.50
Valley .............................. 27
2.50
Gateway .......................... 13

Amt.
5.00
2.50

497

Lodges of Perfection
Lodge
No.
California ........................ 10
Fresno .............................. 6
Oakland .......................... 2
Peninsular ...................... 14

Amt.
12.50
7.50
25.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Sacramento .................... 40
San Diego........................ 8
San Francisco ................ 1

Amt.
12.50
25.00
12.50

Chapter
No.
Mercedes ...................... :.126
Mill Valley ....................219

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Amt.
No.
Chapter
10.00
Mira Monte .................... 141
San Rafael ....................215
10.00

Amt.
5.00
10.00

Individuals and Miscellaneous
Black, Mr. and Mrs. Allen H .. ~ ..........'.......•.;....:~ ...:..;....'....:. ........ _: .........:•..;$ 2.00
Columbia Acacia Club, Columbia Steel Corporation ...................... :..... 5.00
Crowe, M. E., Oakland ...................................................................................... 5.00
Holcomb, R. G., San Bernardino .......................................:............................ 2.50
Johnson, Amory K., Baltimore, Maryland.................................................... 5.00
Kertell, William ...........,...................................................................................... 2.50
Masonic Officers' Association .....................................................................:... :.. 12.50
Officers' Club, 39th Masonic District...................................................~...... 5.00
Olney, W. T. ........................................................................................................ 5.00
Santa Clara Valley Masonic Association ...................................................... 5.00
Schwartz, Thomas W. ································- ···················································· 5.00
Tomure, Arthur J., Los Angeles ....... :,.•.........•......•.......•..:................ :.........;..., 5.00
Westover, Mrs. Margaret R., Santa Cruz .................................................... 20.00
Whicher, John, San Francisco ........................................................................ 20.00
Names of Residents-Decato Home
Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home, the date
of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number of the Lodges
nominating them and the location of such Lodges, complete to August
31, 1941.
Men, 157--Average age, 75.68
Town
Agt
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Adkins, Jason A ...........July 13, '40 San Simeon ...... 196 Cambrfa ....c••••• 61
Allan, James G ............. Apr. 1, '39 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City ...... 67
Alseth, Lars .................. Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ............. .405 Los Angeles ....67
Anderson, Charles A. .. Nov. 19, '36 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ...... 78
Anderson, Peter C. ......July 27, '41 Doric .................. 216 San Francisco .. 80
Anthony, Thomas M ...July 17, '39 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ..........77
Archer, Ernest E ...........Jan. 30, '36 Palos Verdes ...... 389 Long Beach ..74
Atwood, Ira A. ............ Sept. 7, '31 El Cajon Valley.. 576 El Cajon ........ 79
Bader, Henry .............. Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco.,77
Barnes, Elmer W .........July 7, '34 Liberty ............. .299 Santa Clara....72
Battle, Joseph D ........... Dec. 9, '30 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ........ 81
Beal, Charles L. ............Feb. 15, '34 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ........ 75
Beall, Alex. D ............... Mar. 29, '36 Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco..77
Benninger, Wm: G..... Mar. 27, '34 Hanford ... ,... ~ ..•...279 Hanford ..........75
Bentley, Isam H ...........Jan. 31, '31 Oakdale ··:·········.···275 Oakdale ..·........81
Bewley, John C........... Aug. 11, '40 Lodi ....................256 . Lodi ..........•..:..74
Bird, Robert B ............. Dec. 6, '36 Mission .............. 169 San, Francisco .. 78

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Bly, Carl D .....................July 7, '34
Boehm, Hiram } ...........July 19, '31
Bonde, Hans P .............July 6, '32
Bosanke, Thomas W ... Aug. 30, '35
Brittain, William H .....JuneH, '40
Carfagni, Peter .............. Oct. 31, '36
Carpehter, John }. ........ May 2, '37
Carr, Mell A ................. Aug. 4, '36
Cassady, Earl }. ............ Feb. 3, '36
Casterline, Myron N ... Nov. 16, '32
Chandler, Alphonso .... Dec. 28, '40
Closson, Harry } ......... May 4, '31
Collins, Nelson W ....... Sept. 12, '19
Corson, Joseph M ....... Dec. 30, '33
Crandall, Almeron ........ Oct. 24, '34
Cullen. Alexander........ Feb. 4, '36
Daniels, George S ....... Aug. 1, '37
Dillman, Thomas M ... May 16. '37
Dinesen, Jacob N ........:Nov. 1, '32
Dolan, John C. ............ Aug. 4, '31
Engle, Wm. H ............... Dec. 12, '31
Ernst, Cuno A ............. Aug. 26, '32
Erwin, Lewis } ...........July 28, '41
Fender, Andrew } ....... Dec. 5, '30
Ford, William } ........... Sept. 4, '37
Fox, James .................... Apr. 26, '38
Franck, Isadore ............Jan. 10, '16
Furlong, Barre A ....... Mar. 4, '39
Garnie, Fred H ........... Nov. 7, '40
Geibel, George F ......... May 12, '39
Gilbert, Thomas .......... May 20, '36
Gilmartin, Thomas E ... Oct. 28, '34
Goodrich, Edward ...... Aug. 8, '31
Grant, Lincoln U .......Sept. 18, '40
Greaves, Walter ........•... Oct. 18, '32
Gregory, George W ... April 25, '36
Halpin, Robert L ......... Oct. 23, '33
Hamblin, Abraham L ...Jan. 8, '34
Hamilton, Roberf-1.1: ... Apr. 25, '36
Harris, Elijah ................July 6, '35
Harris, Louis ..................} an. 13, '23
Harth, Arthur P ...... ~ .. Sept. 4, '40
Hartin; Robert ..............} an. 8, '37
Haupt, Oscar ................June 28, '30
Hayes, Corwin J .........:t.far. 5, '36
Heath,. James H ........... Feb. 8, '35
Heidt, Wesley.............. Aug. 5, '39
Henry, Wm. P .............July 10, '37
Hiltner, Harry B.........Aug. 17, '40
Hinderliter, Andrew D. Aug. 25, '40
Horn, ·AdelberL ..........July 9, '41

Lodge
No.
Hollenbeck ........319
Big Bear ...... :.......617
Alisa! ..................321
Gravel Range .... 59
Coronado ......... .441
Speranza
I taliana ......... .219
Mendocino ........ 179
Ione .................... 80
George
Washington ..525
Oceanside .......... 381
Unity .................. 368
Tuolumne .......... 8
Calistoga ,...........233
Valley .................. 135
Long Beach ........327
Hollywood ........ 355
Riverbank ..........459
Norwalk ............ 315
Live Oak ............ 61
Redlands ............ 300
Pentalpha .......... 202
Tehama .............. 3
Olivet ............... .205
Northern Light .. 190
McKinley ..........347
Forbestown ...... 50
La Parfaite
Union .............. 17
Pomona ..............246
King Solomon .... 260
Fairmount ..........435
Sequoia .............. 349
Suisun ................ 55
Fresno ................ 247
Table Mountain ..124
Apollo ................ 396
Sunset ................ 352
Silver Trowel ....415
South W esL. ..... 283
Temblor ........... .477
Pasadena ............ 272
Los Angeles ...... 42
Lindsay .............. .416
Arcata ......... ,...... 106
Naval .................. 87
Covina ................334
Santa Maria ...:.... 580
Occidental .......... 22
Yount .................. 12
Fairmou~ t · .~.: ......435
:Qelta ...;....... :......471
Westlake ..... :..... .292

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Los Angeles .... 81
Pine Knot ........ 78
Pleasanton ....78
Camptonville ..66
Coronado ...... 82
San Francisco .. 80
Mendocino ....82
Ione ........·........74
San Francisco..70
Oceanside ......76
Glendale ........84
Sonora ............72
Calistoga ........ 79
Linden ............ 84
Long Beach .... 87
Hollywood .... 79
Riverbank ......78
Norwalk ........92
Oakland ........79
Redlands ........76
Los Angeles ....71
Sacramento .... 78
Corning .......... 85
Millville ..........78
Richmond ......72
Forbestown .... 91
San Francisco .. 93
Pomona .........,77
San Francisco .. 69
San Francisco .. 67
Oakland ........82
Suisun ............ 69
Fresno ............ 86
Paradise ........75
Alameda ........72
Los Angeles ....75
Los Angeles .... 68
National City .. 75
Fellows ..........75
Pasadena ........76
Los Angeles .... 65
Lindsay .......... 68
Arcata ............ 63
Vallejo ............ 78
Covina .............76
Ramona ..........78
San Francisco ..76
Napa .............. 84
San Francisco .. 74
Stockton ........83
Los Angeles ....74

Name
Admitted
Hughes, Eugene F ....... Mar. 11, '33

Lodge
No.
Phoenix .............. 178

Hughes, Henry } ......... Dec. 26, '35
Hullinger, Frank.......... Aug. 26, '40
Hunn, George .............. Aug. 1, '34
Hyde, George ................ Dec. 22, '30
Isaac, Adolph ................Jan. 31, '37
Jack, Charles P .............Jan. 9, '38
Jensen, James L. .......... Mar. 2, '33

Fairmount ......... .435
Sequoia ..............349
Salinas ................ 204
Mill Valley ..........356
Doric ..... ,............216
Presido .............. 354
Texas .................. 46

499

Town
Age
San Bernardino ...... 88
San Francisco.. 71
Oakland ........64
Salinas ............78
Mill Valley .... 82
San Francisco.. 80
San Francisco ..62
San Juan
Bautista ...... 79
San Francisco ..81
Delano ............ 65
Alameda ........ 73
Dutch Flat ....76
San Francisco.. 84
Mariposa ........80
Los Angeles .... 77
Berkeley ........77
Vallejo ............64
Sebastopol ....76
Los Angeles ....66
Santa Monica..82
Los Angeles ....73
Oakland .......... 74
Pasadena ........ 66
Santa Cruz ....76
La Mesa ...... 73
Los Angeles .... 88
Livermore .... 87
Willows .......... 77

Johanson, Charles A...Jan. 29, '39 Balder ................ 393
Jones, George Wm..... Sept. 8, '38 Delano ................ 309
Kemp, Edward H ....... Nov. 24, '37 · Oak Grove ....... .215
Ketcham, Frank.......... Sept. 10, '37 Clay .................... 101
Kimball, John C. .......... Mar. 27, '33 Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Kinchin, Peter.............. Nov. 4, '35 Mariposa ............ 24
Kittridge, Charles H ... Nov. 4, '33 Hollenbeck ........ 319
La Barre, Wm. H ....... Dec. 17, '40 Berkeley ............363
Lacy, Hervey R. .......... Aug. 16, '34 Solano ................ 229
Laton, Edward L. ........ Apr. 23; '32 La Fayette .......... 126
Lawrence, Guerdon C..... Apr. 8, '36 Hollenbeck ........ 319
Lehman, August H ..... Dec. 14, '28 Santa Monica ....307
Lenox, Andrew } .........June 16, '39 South Gate.......... 320
Loher, George T ...........July 1, '39 Live Oak. ........... 61
Lynch, Walter C. ........ Fcb. 8, '36 Pasadena ............272
Martin, Benj. R. .....:...... May 15, '24 Santa Cruz .......... 38
Matthews, Elbert C.....July 10, '35 La Mesa ..............407
McAlpine, David J ....... Oct. 1, '36 South Gate ..........320
McClain, Charles A .....J uly 26, '33 Mosaic ................218
McRae, Alexander ...... Oct. 20, '30 Laurel ·.,. ............ .245
Milisich, Chris ............... Oct. 5, '31
Speranza
Italiana .......... 219 San Francisco .. 77
Morris, Harry B......... N ov. 28, '30 La Fayette .......... 126 Sebastopol .... 77
Morrison, Wm. F .......June 27, '32 Solano ............... .229 Vallejo ............79
Murden, Robert } ......... Mar. 26, '28 Alcatraz ............. .244 Oakland ..........75
Myers, Wm. P ............. Feb. 1, '32 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ............ 72
Nevitt, Charles E ......... Oct. 31, '36 Hollywood ........ 355 Hollywood ....80
Nielsen, Ingvel 0 ....... 0ct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ..........68
Northern, Pleasant M... Nov. 8, '37 Lindsay ............. .416 Lindsay ..........69
Owen, Wm. L. ...,........ Aug. 12, '22 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ..82
Pouyet, Eugene ............ Oct. 26, '37 Catalina Island .. 524 Avalon ............ 58
Preslar, Henry A; ........ Dec. 10, '39 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ........80
Pritchard, Howard M... Oct. 6, '39 Phoenix .............. 178 San Bernardino ...... 80
Quilty, Frank E ........... Feb. , 1, '33 ·F riendship .......... 210 San Jose ....•...88
Reaper, Robert W ....... May 14, '39 Starr King .......... 344 San Francisco .. 63
Reinhold, Peter W .......July 16, '37 · Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ....82
Richardson, }. D ......... Nov. 14, '40 King Solomon .... 260 San Francisco .. 65
Riley, Perry M............. Feb. 22, '37 Lakeshore .......... 551 . Oakland ..:.......70
Roach, Francis T ,......Sept. 18, '40· · Antioch .............. 175 Antioch .; ........76
Russell, George McC ... Feb. 2, '34 · Beverly Hills ...... 528 Beverly Hills ..78
Ryan, Charles A ........... Aug. 28, '40 Baldwin Park.... 660 Baldwin Park..64
Sangster, Donald .......... Oct. 4, '32 Mendocino ........ 179 ·Mendocino :::.85

500

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Town
Age_
Lodge
No.
Monrovia ..... ..... 308 Monrovia · ......81
Dunsmuir ......... .297 Dunsmuir ......77
Seaport .............. 550 San Francisco ..68
Burlingame ....... .400 Burlingame .... 68
Pacific Grove ...... 331 Pacific Grove ..80
Monterey .......... 217 Monterey ..":.....77
So. Pasadena ...... 367 So. Pasadena ..73
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ..64
Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown .. 81
Paul Revere ....... .462 San Francisco ..72
Callayomi ......... .282 Middletown .. 81
Oakland .............. 188 Oakland .......... 81
West Lake .......... 392 Los Angeles .... 86
Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland .......... 74
Utopia ................ 537 Los Angeles .... 69
Paul Revere ...... 462 San Francisco.. 68
Oriental .............. 144 San Francisco ..81
Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ........70
Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco.. 61
Caledonia :........ .486 Bakersfield ....76
Honolulu ........... .409 Honolulu ........ 71
Speranza
I taliana _........219 San Francisco ..74
Travelli, Joseph .......... Sept. 24, '32 Oakdale ............. .275 Oakdale ..........79
Traverse, J ohn .............. May 7, '36 Evening .S tar ...... 186 Etnaz7 ............. 77
Trost, John H ............... Mar. 15, '32 Ferndale :........... 193 Ferndale ........87
Tucker, Ira W ............. May 12, '33 San Jose ... ::......... 10 San Jose ........ 87
Viles Charlston H ....... Oct. 24, '29 Abell ,......,.......... 146 Ukiah ..............84
Vors;riger, Edw. A. ....June 10, '37 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ........73
Waite; Fred .......,............July 16, '.35 Delano ................ 309 Delano ............ 69
Ward, Kenneth L ....... Nov. 16,''35 Howard .............. 37 Yre~a ..............82
Warren, William .......... Aug. 4, '39 Point Firmin ...... 558 San Pedro ........ 59
Watkins, David K. ...... Nov. 29, '31 Paul Revere ........ 462 San Francisco~.69
Wideman, Conrad J ... Sept. 3, '39 Fraternity ... :...... 399 San Jose .......... 83
Wigginton, James V{...July 15, '29 S. W. HacketL..574 San Diego........ 84
Williiuns, Arthur V ..... Apr. 15, '37 Oriental .......•...... 144 San Francisco.. 67
Wils~n, George ............ Mar. 31, '36 Fraternity .......... 399 San Jose .......... 76
Witcosky, John A. ...... Sejit. 16, '30 Amity ~................. 370 San Francisco .. 62
Mount Oso........460 Tracy ..............83
Wood, Uriah $ .............Aug~· 21, '31
Wright, Ralph ................Jan. 26, '39 . Seaside ................ 504 Long Beach .... 59
Yarrington, James T ... Feb. 26, '29 University .......... 394 Los Angeles ....79

Name
Admitted .
Sarwine,"Christian H ...June 10, '36
Schandell. Mathais \.. ..Jan. 15, '38
Schlichting, Mar'tin ...... May 16, '35
Scott, Walter L ......... ~ ... Apr. 1, '34
·s ebree, Charles H .......Mar. 21, '36
Senestrari, Jacob T ..... Mar. 27, '33
Shuttleworth, Fred'k. ...July 17, '39
Slagel, Robert B...........Oct. 28, '38
Smith, Charles ............ Sept. 2, '31
Smith, John S ............... Feb. 5, '39
Smith, Roland A ...........Jan. 29, '27
Smith, William C. ........ Apr. 25, '28
Sniffen, Samuel T .........Jan. 31, '33
Standeford, Wm. B..... Nov. 12, '29
Stevens, Harry G......... Nov. 6, '38
Stolz, Leon E ............... May 21, '41
Templeman, Henry ....Dec. 29, '38
Thompson, Geo. S....•..Aug. 11, '39
Thompson, Loretto P ..... Dec. 10, '39
Thompson, John W ... Aug. 11, '34
Todd, Albert E. W ..... Dec. 19, '38
Tosy, Antonio .............. Sept. 23, '37

Departures during the year-7
No.
Date
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Pentalpha
......
202
Nov.
8, '40
HU!er, Jennie........................ Jan. 10, '37
Kil:sch, Louis C..................... Mar. 20, '37 South San
Francisco ....212 Apr. 17, '41
Moore, Walter ] ................... May 26, '38 Security ..........581 June 7, '41
Salisburg; Emma F.L....... _ Mar. 11, '41 Suisun · ............ 55 May 12, '41
Touchette, Alfred 0; .. ;.......... Fep. 11,'39 San Diego ..;.... 35 July 28, '40
Tyler, Fred !.......................:.... Aug. 4, '40. Maxwell · .......... 288 Oct. 25, '41
W eybright, Annie M .. :........ July . 17, '39 :Tehama............ 3 May 18, '41

501

Women, 143-Average age, 74.61
N anie

Admitted
Allen, Ida...................... Feb. 17, '40
Ames, Clementina H ... Mar. 8, '41
Anderson, Hilda C. ...... Oct. 28, '34
Appleton, Minnie P .....Atig. 1, '36
Atwood, Ida I.. ........... Sept. 7, '31
Baker, Annie J ............. May 19, '39
Bane, An~abell E ......... July 20, '32
Bane, Florence A ......... Nov. 13, '29
Barnes, Elaine G...........July 7, '34
Bartlett, Helen E .........J an . 26, '38
Barton, Annie N .........Aug. 27, '33
Berge, Lilly B ............. Sept. 30, '26
Bernstein, Cornelia......] une 26, '24
Biggart, Alice M .........Sept. 11, '39
Bolting, Isadore L ....... Dec. 29, '33
Brink, Ollie....................] une 25, '38
Broughton, Anne E ... Sept. 6, .'34
Brown, Lima C. ............ May 25, '34
Burnett, Ethlan R. ...... Feb. 9, '36
Bush, Lotta A. ............ Aug. 28, '37
Cass, Mary E ... _.......:., ..July 7, '28
Cassidy, Lottie ..............May 30, '33
Casterline, Mary A ..... Apr. 10, '34
Cavender, Mary O ....... Mar. 18, '37
Chapman, Magnolia W. Mar. 20,-'37
Clare, Jennie G............. Dec. 14, '39
Coar, Lydia E ............... Feb. 11, '34

Lodge
No.
Balder .... :........... 393
Mission .............. 169
Crockett .............. 139
Live Oak........... 61
El Cajon Valley.. 576
Sequoia .............. 349
Orland ................ 265
Rockridge ..........468
Liberty .............. 299
Doric ..................216
Truckee .............. 200
West Gate .......... 335
Berkeley ............ 363
Gardena .............. 372
Silver Gate .......... 296
Pacific Grove .... 331
Magnolia ............242

Bethlehem ........453
Las Palmas ........ 366
King Solomon's .. 260
Sisson ................ 310
Silver Gate ..........296
Oceanside .......... 381
Coalinga ............ 387
Union .................. 58
Laurel .............. ;.245
Alexander
Graham Bell .. 595
Collister, Mary L ......... Jan. 19, '30 Vitruvius ............ 145
Copeland, Wilhelmina ..July 11, '32 Golden Gate........ 30
Cornell, MabeL. ........... Dec. 14, '35 Charity ..;............ 362
Costain, Mattie L .........June 10, '40 San Jose ... ;.......... 10
Daniels, Harriet ] .......Sept. 12, '38 Riverbank .......... 459
Davis, Fannie.:..............June 24, '34 Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Drew, Minnie ........... _... Oct. 20, '33 Unity ............... :.. 368
Dupuy, Ruth: ... c•••••• ••••••• May 10, '40 Valle de France .. 329
Edwards, Nellie B......... Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn ............ 225
Egan, Maud L .............Mar. 2, '41 San Diego.......... 35
Erwin, Lillian B ........ .] uly 23, '41 Olivet ................205
Felton, Mary M ........... Oct. 3, '34 Mt. Davidson ... .481
Ferguson, Ruth R. ...... May 26, '34 Sotoyome .......... 123
Fetrow, Dora L. .......... May 11, '35 Corinthian .......... 9
Finley, Ada L ............... Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ...... 42
Ford, Sena E ................. July, 27 '41 Harbor .. :........... 502
Fortriede, Auguste...... Apr. 24, '25 Crockett ............ 139
Foster, Elizabeth M .....July 8, '36 . Hawaiian ............ 21
Foster, Nellie G ...........June 21, '30 Berkeley ............363
Garnett, Katherine ...... Apr. 13, '36 Silveyville .......... 201
Given, Alice ............ :..... Dec. 7, '40 Hawaiian .......... 21
Gordon, Emma ..... ;... ~·._June 27, '36 Occidental ........ 22
Gordon, Isabel C......... Feb. 12, '28 Carquinez .......... 337

TOWK
Age
San Francisco..73
San Francisco ..79
San Francisco ..63
Oakland ........ 64
El Cajon ., ......76
Oakland ..........65
Orland ............74
Oakland ........76
Santa Clara.... 71
San Francisco.. 70
Truckee ..........89
Los Angeles ....87
Berkeley ........82
Gardena .......... 84
San Diego ......82
Pacific Grove .. 72
Santa
Barbara ......85
San Francisco ..85
Fresno ............ 66
San Francisco..68
Mt. Shasta ...... 85
San Diego ......80
Oceanside ...... 68
Coalinga ........70
Sacramento .... 79
Williows ........72
Los Angeles ....89
Bloomfield ...... 87
San Francisco .. 68
Campbell ........ 58
San Jose ...... _65
Riverbank ......67
San Francisco.. 85
Glendale .......... 81
Los Angeles ..69
Oakland ..........66
San Diego ...... 64
Corning .......... 68
San Francisco.. 66
Healdsburg .... 84
Marysville ......72
Los Angeles .. 70
Richmond ......71
San Francisco .. 64
Honolulu ........ 72
Berkeley ........78
Dixon ....,, .. ,·.:;.:77
Honolulu ........ 71
San Francisco .. 62
Crockett ..........67

502

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Grant, Lillian A ...........Oct. 6, '32
Greaves, Margaret !..... Oct. 18, •3'2
Griffith, Rose L ...........Mar. 26, '36
Haley, Annie B ........... Dec. 28, '40
Harris, Louise C. .......... Feb. 19, '33
Hazard, Marie.............. Aug. 10, '25
Henderson, Florence B. May 25, '40
Hiltner, Mary .............Aug. 17, '40
Honey, Alice ..•...............July 22, '34
Hughes, Laura H .......Mar. 11, '33

Hulsey, Tempie E.:..... Sept. 18, '37
Hutchinson, Sara J .....J une 11, '34
Jack, Mary....................]une 1,'31
Jackson, May R. ........Aug. 27, '25
James, Jennie L ........... Nov. 19, '33
Jenkins, Mary E ........... May 21, '31
Johns, Sarah ................ Sept. 6, '36
Johnson, Jane H ...........Jan. 6, '34
Jones, Camilla T ...........Apr. 8, '34
Jones, Mary.................. Dec. 23, '38
Keenan, Effie ................July 17, '33
Kellogg, Lillie F ........... Dec. 2, '30
Kelso, Katherine.......... Apr. 26, '35
Kidd, Millie A ............. Aug. 21, '32
Kimball, Annette C..... Aug. 3, '32
Kimball, Camelia L .....Sept. 19, '26
Kimball, Lila M ........... Mar. 27, '33
Klevesahl, Catherine ..Aug. 27, '35
Lamb, Julia E ............... Oct. 23, '36
Laufman, Anna............Aug. 27, '24
Lightner, Sarah J .........Oct. 9, '28
Lindsley, Luella P ....... Aug. 16, '34
Mackenzie, Mary W ...June 30, '41
Maltby, Sarah E ........... Dec. 16, '39
Mann, Bertha M ...........June 10, '33
Masse, Eleanor R. ........ May 22, '36
Mayfield, Mary ]. ........ Sept. 22, '35
McDowell, Alice M ..... Mar. 24, '32
McLean, Lucy A......... Nov. 28, '34
Merrill, Ivy L. ............Jan. 25, '41
Miller, Esther J ........... Mar. 5, '34
Moore, Mary S ............. May 9, '33
Myers, Sallie P ............. Mar. 2, '37
Nelander, Ida C. ........ Oct. 19, '40
Nevitt, Laura V ...........Oct. 31, '36
Newman, Susanna ......June 4, '29
Nielsen, Este M ........... Ocf 3, '40
Nielsen, Mary V ......... Nov. 21, '27
Noble, Grace F .............July 4, '32
Nutter, Martha L ....... Mar. 25, '23
Ohlsen, Julia ................Sept. 7, '37

Town
Age
Georgetown ..67
Alameda ........61
Yuba City ......75
Centerville ......88
San Francisco..66
San Jose ........71
San Francisco..61
San Francisco..70
Milton ............82
San Bernardino ......86
Fillmore ............379 Fillmore ..........85
Liberty ..............299 Santa Clara ..79
McKinley ..........347 Richmond ......74
· Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ..........82
Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland .......... 79
Durant ................268 Berkeley ........71
East Belt ............391 Tuolumne ......85
Presidio ..............354 San Francisco..75
Occidental ........ 22 San Francisco..71
Oakland ............ 188 Oakland .......... 68
Jewel .................. 374 San Francisco..64
Chula Vista........ 626 Chula Vista ....85
Redwood City.... 168 Redwood
City ..............76
Amity ................370 San Francisco..74
Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City ....79
San Francisco ..360 San Francisco.. 76
Mount Moriah .. 44 San Francisco..70
Hermann ............ 127 San Francisco ..85
King David's ....209 San Luis
Obispo ..........69
Sincerity ............ 132 Greenville ........90
Starr King ........344 San Francisco..81
Morning Star...... 68 Stockton ..........75
Bay View ........... .401 Oakland ..........63
Chico ....:............. 111 Chico ................71
Naval .................. 87 · Vallejo ............73
Yount .................. 12 Napa ................68
Alpha ..................431 Richmond ......69
Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ..........65
Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco..65
Illinoistown ...... 51 Colfax ·............63
Oriental .............. 144 San Francisco..74
Redwood City.... 168 Redwood City..78
Arlington ..........414 Los Angeles......82
Balder ................393 San Francisco ..78
Hollywood ........355 Hbllywood ......80
Antioch ..............175 Antioch ............79
Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ..........63
Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ......80
Trinity ................ 27 Weaverville ....81
East Gate ..........290 Los Angeles ..86
Balder ............:...393 San Francisco ..63
Lodge
No.
Georgetown ...... 25
Apollo ................396
Enterprise ........ 70
Alameda ............ 167
Pacific ................ 136
San Jose .............. 10
Morning Star .... 68
Fairmount ..........435
Keystone ............ 161
Phoenix .............. 178

GRAND LODGE OF -CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Pankow, Catherine......Apr. 29, '29
Parish, Maude C. ........June 7, '41
Peairs, Lillian W ......... Feb. 11, '35

Perry, Mary C. .............. May 12, '30
Preslar, lda....................Jan. 19, '41
Rackerby, Elizabeth .... Mar. 29, '30
Ramsey, Hattie L.......June 23, '40
Raymond, Lillian F ... Sept. 21, '39
Rieser, Mary G.............Aug. 4, '39
Rogers, Leonora .......... Oct. 6, '25

Lodge
No.
Crockett ............ 139
Visalia :................ 128
Normal
Heights ..........632
Mendocino ........ 179
Alcatraz ....,.......244
Crockett ....,....... 139
Monterey ..........217
Liberty ..............299
Brooklyn ............225
King David's ....209

·Root, Emma F ............. Dec. 2, '32
Roscoe, Nettie P .........,.Jan. 13, '32
Ross, Catherine L ....... May 3, '39
Rouscup, Annie M ..... Sept. 18, '38
Rownan, Matilda ........ Aug. 11, '36
Schmidt, Ella M ........... Mar. 18, '34
Settle, Mary.................. Apr. 10, '41
Seymour, Laura............ Feb. 1, '36
Shanks, Ella.................. Sept. 1, '37
Smay, Madge M .........June 11, '36
Smith, Minnie A...........J uly 12, '37
Snyder, Amanda G.....Apr. 13, '37
Soale, Carl B.........'........ May 15, '32
Sparrowe, Constance.. Sept. 27, '40
Stewart, Mary.............. Mar. 12, '32
Stroud, Laura L ...........June 2, '37
Terrell, Cynthia E ....... Sept. 15, '27
Thomas, Ellen S ........... Oct. 5, '38
Thompson, Celia.......... Dec. 16, '33
Timm, Mattie A ...........Sept. 5, '37
Torr, Georgina R. ........Jan. 14, '33
Vale, Olive B...............June 18, '36
Wade, Georgia M ......... Feb. 24, '39
Walton, Ida M .......,.....June 22, '25
Weigel, May L. ............ Apr. 10, '32
West, Henrietta B ....... May 10, '30
Wetzel, Laura C........... Dec. 18, '35
Wilcox, Edith ................May 3, '36
Williams, Margaret K... Sept. 2, '39
Williams, Sarah E ..... Feb. 16, '41
Wilson, Maryan ...:...... Mar. 31, '36
Yarrington, Grace M ... Feb. 26, '29

Occidental .......... 22
Oroville .............. 103
Morgan Hill ......463
Burbank ............406
Sunnyside .......... 577
Charter Rock ..:.410
Buckeye ............ 195
Honolulu ............409
Hawaiian ............ 21
Alcatraz ..............244
Smyrna ..............532
Bakersfield ........224
Corona ................324
Excelsior .......... 166
Concord .............. 117
Vacaville ............ 134
Yosemite ............ 99
Euclid ..................519
Eden .................... 113
Silveyville ..........201
Elmhurst ............610
Bethlehem ..........453
Oak Grove..........215
Oa~nd ............ 188
Marin .................. 191
Santa Rosa.......... 57
Presidio ..............354
Durant ................268
Fruitvale ............336
Mizpah ..............378
Fraternity ..........399
University ..........394

503

Town
Age
San Francisco ..76
Visalia ............ 68

San Diego ........72
Mendocino ......74
Oakland ..........79
San Francisco..83
Monterey ........80
Santa Clara......72
Oakland ............78
San Luis
Obispo ........82
San Francisco..76
Oroville .........:..70
Morgan Hill....68
Burbank ............84
Los Angeles ....76
Berkeley ..........77
Winters ..........85
Honolulu ..........63
Honolulu ..........70
Oakland ......,..•..74
Ceres ............'......77
Bakersfield ......69
Pasadena ..........84
San Francisco..73
Sacramento ......71
Vacaville ..........68
Merced ............86
Los Angeles ....60
San Leandro ....70
Dixon ·..............77
Oakland ............75
San Francisco..84
Alameda ..........69
Oakland ..........82
San Rafael ......76
Santa Rosa ........89
San Francisco..79
Berkeley ..........74
Oakland ............92
Los Angeles ..77
San Jose............75
Los Angeles......71

Admitted during the year, Men, 16-Average Age 72.75
Name
Admitted
Anderson, Peter C.......J uly 27, '41
Breitenbach, Carl P .....Dec. 3, '40
Chandler, Alphonso.... Dec. 28, '40
Erwin, Lewis -]..:..:.......July 28, '41
Garnie, Fred H ............. Nov. 7, '40
Grant, Lincoln U .......Sept. 18, '40

Lodge
No.
Doric ..................216
Acacia ................438
Unity ..................368
Olivet ..................205
King Solomon's 260
Table Mountain 124

Town
Age
San Francisco ..80
Los Angeles .... 58
Glendale ..........84
Corning ..........85
San Francisco..69
Paradise ..........75

504

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted
Name
Harth, Arthur P ......... Sept. 4, '40
Horn, Adelbert .............. July 9, '41
La Baree, William H ... Dec. 17, '40
Little, Henry B ......... Dec. 27, '40
Nielsen, Ingvel O .......Oct: 3, '40
Reese, William T ......... Nov. 16, '40
Richardson, J. D ......... Nov. 14, '40
Roach, Francis T ......... Sept. 18, '40
Sargent, Harry K .......Jan. 25, '41
Stolz, Leon E ............. May 21, '41

Lodge

No.

Lindsay ..............416
West Lake ........ 392
Berkeley ............363.
San Francisco ....360
Fruitvale ...:........ 336
Friendship ... :....210
King Solomon's 260
Antioch .............. 175
Jam es Madison.. 572
Paul Revere ........462

Town

Age

Lindsay ..........68
Los Angeles .. 74
Berkeley .......... 77
San Francisco .. 65
Oakland .......... 68
San Jose .......... 81
San Francisco .. 65
Antioch .......... 76
Los Angeles .. 71
San Francisco .. 68

Admitted during the year, Women, IS-Average age, 73.33
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Ames, Clementina H ... Mar. 8, '41 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ..79
San Diego ...... 64
Egan, Maud L ........... Mar. 2, '41 San Diego ........ 35
Erwin, Lillian B ...........July 23, '41 Olivet -·-·············.2.05 Corning .......... 68
Ewers, J eannette .......... t:iec. 13, '40 Pajaro ............•... 110 Watsonville .... 80
Ford, Sena E ...............July 27, '41 Harbor ,............... 502 Richmond ...... 71
Given, Alice .................. Dec. 7, '40 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ........ 71
Haley, Annie B ........... Dec. 28, '40 Alameda ............ 167 Centerville ......88
Lunt, Lillian E ........... Sept. 19, '40 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco .. 73
Mackenzie, Mary W .. .June 30, '41 Bay View .......... ..401 Oakland .......... 63
Merrill, Ivy L ............... Jan. 25, '41 Illinois ................ 51 Colfax . ............. 63
Nelander, Ida C......... Oct. 19, '40 Balder ................393 San Francisco ..78
Nielsen, Este M ............. Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakla.nd .......... 63
Parish, Maude C. .......... June 7, '41 Visalia ................ 128 Visalia ............ 68
Preslar, Ida ....................Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ..........79
Salisburg, Emma F ... Mar. 11, '41 Suisun ................ 55 Suisun .............. 77
Settle, Mary .................. Apr. 10, '41 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ..........85
Sparrowe, Constance .. Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco.. 73
Williams, Sarah E ..... Feb. 16, '41 Mizpah .............. 378 Los Angeles ..77
Died during the year, Men 36-Average age 77.56

Name
Age Lodge
No.
Date
Buried
Asmus, Ernest A. ............70 Mill -..alley .. 356 Nov. 29, '40 San Francisco
Bartlett, Frank A ............. 81 Doric ........... .216 July 29, '41 Decoto
Bosserman, David W ....... 85 South Park .. 563 Aug. 28, '41 Redondo
Breitenbach, Carl P ....... 58 Acacia ..........438 Dec. 29, '40 Decoto
Bright, Luther R. ............84 Smyrna ........ 532 Feb. 21, '41 San Jose
Cramer, Herman ..............73 Tuolumne .... 8 Jan. 30, '41 Decoto
Elliott, Thomas Wm ......... 77 Durant .......... 268 Sept. 22, '40 Berkeley
Frye, Abram A. J ...........80 Presidio ........354 Jan. 28, '41 Decoto
Grim, Wm. E. ................80 Landmark ....253 Oct. 20, '40 Woodland
Hart, Henry H ................. 80 Marin ............ 191 Jan. 18, '41 Decoto ·
Huff, William J ,..............76 San Jose ...... 10 Oct.
6, '40 San Jose
Journal, Philip S .............90 Sequoia ........349 June 24, '41 Oakland
Kerr, Charles A .......: .......73 Morgan Hill..463 Sept. 14, '40 Decoto
Little, Henry B .............•. 65 San
Francisco .. 360 Aug. 29, '41 Decoto
McDowell, Wm. M .........84 University ..394 Feb. 18, '41 Decoto
Meinhardt, John D .........80 Starr King ....344 June 28, '41 Decoto
Metcalf, Chris. D .............76 Redondo ......328 Dec. 13, '40 Inglewood
Millar, David S ............... 83 So. Calif. ....278 Feb. 17, '41 Decoto

505

Buried
Date
No.
Name
Age Lodge
Miller, 0. <feorge.......... :.83 Chico ..........- 111 Sept. 11, '40 Chico
Otto, Fred A. ..................74 Lassen .........,149 Sept. 24, '40 Oakland
Parker, David N ...........:.94 Pasadena ......272 Feb. 20, '41 Oakland
Parks, Dan C. ............ -....72 Francis K.
Shattuck ..571 June 24, '41 Decoto
Reese, William T ............. 80 Friendship ....210 April 14, '41 San Jose
Rice, Frederick A ........... 74 Truth ............ 628 May 17, '41 Buckley
Rose, James ......................65 Amity ..........370 Sept. 23, '40 Decoto
Ross, Andrew ....................74 Morgan Hill..463 Dec. 12, '40 Decoto
Sargent, Ha~ry K ............. 71 James
Madison .... 572 June 24, '41 Decoto
2, '41 Decoto
Seymour, Milton ..............70 Honolulu ......409 Apr.
Sheldon, William M .........79 Friendship ..210 July 11, '41 Fairfield
Swedburg, Eric ...:.......... 85 Reading ........254 Dec. 11, '40 Decoto
Taylor, George McC .......79 Excelsior ...... 166 May 12, '41 Decoto
Touchette, Alfred 0 ......... 83 San Diego ...... 35 Sept. 6, '40 San Diego
Welch, George H .............70 Union ............ 58 Aug. 4, '41 Decoto
Welton, John Wm...........75 Mission ........ 169 July 13, '41 Decoto
White, Frank. ...................95 Nevada .......... 13 Feb. 13, '41 Decoto
Whiteside, William ..........76 Amity ............370 Sept. 22, '40 Oakland
Wilson, Charles ................ 72 Parnassus ....388 Dec. 15, '40 Decoto
Died during the year, Women, 14-Average age, 77.00
Name
Age Lodge
No.
Date
Buried
Blinn, Sophia W~ ............ 80 Truckee ....... .200 Mar. 2, '41 Maine
Clark, Minnie A. .............. 70 Alpha ........... .431 Nov. 26, '40 San Francisco
Davis, Grace G .................86 Naval ............ 87 Oct.
8, '40 Decoto
Duncalf, Ada D ............... 72 Arbuckle ..... .182 June 16, '41 San Francisco
Ewers, Jeannette .............. 80 Pajaro ......... '. 110 Aug. 5, '41 Oakland
Fritch, Beulah M ............. 78 Hollywood ..355 Feb.
9, 41 Decoto
Gregory, Emily ................73 Concord ,.......117 Jan. 20, '41 Decoto
Irvine, Adelaide H ...........91 Sacramento .. 40 Dec.
2, '40 Sacramento
Kemp, Josephine A..c ...... 72 Oak Grove ....215 July
1, '41 San Mateo Co.
Lunt, Lillian E ................. 73 Mission ........ 169 Dec. 11, '40 Decoto
Starbuck Catherine S.....69 ·James A.
Fo~hay .... 641 Sept. 18, '40 Fresno
Teall, Lena........................78 Golden Gate ....30 July 30, '41 Decoto
Williams, Lillias ................ 69 Fortitude ...... 624 Apr. 20, '41 Oakland
Withers, Phoebe ..............87 East Belt ......391 Jan. 29, '41 Decoto
Report of the Superintendent-Covina Home

To. the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Herewith I am presenting my fifteenth annual report as Superintendent
of the Covina Home. During the past year there were 12 admissions (7
boys and 5 girls); 28 discharges (20 boys and 8 girls).
Of the 28 discharged the causes of discharg~ were:
Graduated from high school.. ...............................................................10
Returned to their parents at their request, account remarriage .... 7
Returned to parents, account improved economic condition ...... 7
Dismissed account unsatisfactory conduct ...............,.................. 4
The present business activity resulting from the Defense program has,

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for the time bein~, made the problem of employment for our graduates an
easy one. Our class of 1940, numbering 14, are now occupied as follows:
In college................................ 2
In the Navy....~....................... 1
Unemployed ............................ 1
In secretarial work. ...........,... 3

Airplane factories .................. 2
Other factory jobs................ 1
Store clerks .......................... 2
Cosmetologists ...................... 2

It is an inspiring procession, these young people going forth year after
year from the doors of the Home into the outside world. During the past
fifteen years 414 have thus gone out; 177 of these have carried with them
high school diplomas; the other 277 have left before graduating, in most
cases be.cause of improved family circumstances which made care by the
Home no longer necessary. A relatively small number of cases were discharged because they were not profiting by their opportunities in the
Home and wer.e standing in the way of "other children making satisfactory
progress.
We are not justified in classifying children as "good" and "bad." Yet,
although no child may t'ightly be called "bad," we must recognize that he
may be very detrimental to other children who are closely associated with
him. Occasionally we must weigh the good we can do a boy against the
harm his presence will do to others.
On the other hand, an important benefit that comes from group living
is the educative influence of the group upon the individual. The general
intention of the Masonic Home group is sound and wholesome, and it
works beneficially upon each individual. The Home child cannot live to
himself alone ; he must give as well as take; there is a strong incentive to
comradeship and team work.
Alumni of the Home-The terms "alma mater" (fostering mother),
and "alumni" (foster children) are usually applied to a college or school
and its pupils; but. are more truly applicable to the relationship that exists
between a Home such as ours and its wards. Our alumni are a factor far
from negligible in the life of the Home.
During the past year ther~ have been three gatherings of Alumni: a
dinner in San Francisco during .Grand Lodge Week; a dinner at Covina in
February; and a reunion picnic in August at Camp Tucker, Balboa Island.
In June was issued the ninth of a series of Alumni Newsletters which have
been issued during the last several years. This issue, consisting of 24 mimeographed pages, contained news of 315 farmer boys and girls of the Home.
Because it helps them to keep in touch with each other, and to preserve
their childhood friendships, we think it is well worth the work and expense
involved in its publication.
I have often said to a Home boy or girl whose conduct had reached a
crisis : "We are not so much concerned with what you think now of our
decisions and our treatment of you, as we are with what you will think of
them five years from now. Come back then and tell us whether we were
unwise or unjust." They do come back frequently, and their characteristic
remark is: "You were too easy with us." Their letters to us and to their
friends in the Home help to convince our boys and girls that we are right
even when we find it neioessary to "bear down."
If They Could Try the World- Boys of' sixteen or seventeen (and
sometimes girls) occasionally get tired of Home routine. They are impatient under the restraints which we think it necessary to impose upon
youngsters of their age. They think they would like to be out in the world,
freed from the requirement to go to school, earning a man's wages and
having a man's freedom.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

507

Frequently we have thought it would be beneficial if such a boy could
have his wish, and then after a few months, when he had had his measure
taken in the world of men, to let him come back into the Home. Recently
one of these discontented boys was discharged to his mother, who had
remarried. During the summer he earned $30.00 a week working on oil
derricks. When our school started he came back to see if there might not
be some way for him to re-enter the Home. He said: "I see the Home
different now. The kids here don't know what they've got. Some of them
said to me this morning that it's like a concentration camp. I told them
that's right, and my advice to you is you'd better concentrate on your
studies and your jobs in the Home while you have the chance; I sure would
like to get back." If that boy came back, his next year would be his best.
Special Events-Many Lodges and individuals have exerted themselves
during the year to bring to the children pleasures and recreations. While
all of these are listed herewith under the head of "Entertainments," it
seems that some should be given special mention.
For the past seventeen years the Lodges of Monrovia have given an
annual Christmas party for the children. They come to the Home and
carry the children to the Lodge Hall at Monrovia in their automobiles,
provide them an entertainment with a Christmas tree and special gift for
each child, followed by refreshments. The children look forward to the
"Monrovia party" for months, which is explainable not only by the character
of the entertainment, but by the unique atmosphere of hospitality which the
Monrovia Masons contrive to put into the event. ·
For the past seven years Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380 has invited the children to take part in its annual picnic in the park at Huntington
Beach. Here are provided games and recreation under skilled leadership,
after which the children sit down with the Lodge members and their
families to a grand picnic dinner.
For several years past the Lodges of Santa Ana have taken a particular
interest in the welfare of the children ·during the summer season when they
are in camp at nearby Balboa. Noteworthy expressions of this interest
this year were the gift of two rowboats; also their entertaining the older
children at some of the DeMolay dances in the Santa Ana Masonic Temple.
Noteworthy Donations--Elsewhere in this report are listed the many
gifts, large and small, which have come to the Home during the past year;
but we wisJ:i to call particular attention to certain ones of these.
The most noteworthy gift during the past year was a complete set of
dental equipment of a value of more than $4,000.00, given by Dr. Walter
Wilcox. Special interest attaches to this donation, owing to the fact that
Dr. Wilcox was the first Masonic orphan cared for by the Grand Lodge of
California, after having lost both of his parents in a yellow fever epidemic
iu New Orleans in 1877.
Good fortune again befell the Home in a bequest to Santa Monica
Lodge No. 307 in the sum of $2,078.50, from the late Tharald Steen, which
was to be expended on some project agreed upon between the officers of
Santa Monica Lodge and those of the Covina Home for the benefit of its
wards. It was determined to use this money in improving the large playground, by the installation of an automatic irrigating system for the maintenance of turf upon this two acre area, the furnishing of a power lawn
mower and renovator, and other items necessary. This will constitute a
real and most welcome addition to the recreational facilities of our Home.
For many years Mount Olive Lodge No. 506 has maintained an enthusiastic interest in the welfare of the. Home's wards. They maintain a

508

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

special fund, the "Mount Olive Recreation Fund," which we are privileged
to draw upon for luxury and recreation items from time to time as we need
theni. . . -During the past two years our drafts upon this fund have amounted
to $200:89.
·
Brother Chet Relph, a member of this Lodge, also generously donated
a used automobile.
.The. Westerner's Club, of the Twentieth Century-Fox Filin Corporation, has for a number of years, made a generous addition to the Christmas
prqgram of th.e children, in the shape of a Christmas gift for each child of
a vaJue of $1.50.
Another gift, repeated so many years that it has become a tradition,
is the gift of graduation rings to the graduates of each successive year, by
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452. This began many years ago when San Pasqual
Lodge had some of its own wards in the Home, and has continued annually
up to the present time.
Another noteworthy gift was that of Mrs. A W. Pye from the estate
'o f Harry J. Johnston, her brother, of $200.00, to be used for furnishings.
This was noteworthy not only because of the generous amount, but also
because it is unusual and welcome for a gift of furnishings to be made
without stipulation as to what the furnishings shall be.
Another fine gift was that of Mrs. Fred ]. Ham, whose late husband
had· .been 'greatly interested irt boys and Boy Scouting. She gave $180.00 to
be used over a period of years to send one or two of our Boy Scouts to a
Boy Scout camp each summer.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, having been appraised that a girl, a ward of
their Lodge, who had been in the Home for twelve years, was to be graduated and needed vocational training, advanced $500.00 which has enabled
her to take a course in cosmetology. She has recently finished the course
and passed the California State examination as a beauty operator.
Ada Chapter, 0 . E . S., of Sacramento, made inquiry as to what special
beneficent gift they could make, and after consideration they determined
to provide vocal instruction to a girl of the Home who has a really promising voice. During the past Year they have advanced $200.00 for this
purpose.
··Brother Roscoe Norton has, through the past year, kept the children in
;the Horhe who are interested in stamp collecting supplied with all the stamps
they could desire-a fine and generous gift of real educational value.
A.s in many seasons past, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 has taken special
interest in the supplying of a large quantity of canned fruit, . particularly
peaches; a practical gift that is ever welcome and most useful.
·

been the best citizens in the Masonic Home community.· By "best citizen"
is meant that boy or girl who has been most public spirited, who has done
the most in making the Masonic Home community a better in which to live.
T.he awarding of these prizes is determined by the ·boys and girls
themselves, in a series of ballots; their choices have been good.
The concept of citizenship is not an easy one for boys and girls to grasp.
These prizes have placed a particular emphasis upon this concept, have
been a valuable means of training our young people toward being better
citizens in a nation which, in coming days, will need good citizenship
above all else.
JOHN M. DOWNEN, Superiatendent.

Past Commanders Association Prizes-The boys and girls of the Home
have been often described as "one big family" ; however, it is perhaps
more accurate to tl)ink of them as a community. The influence of each of
them upon the community is far from negligible, and this is especially
true of . the older ·boys and girls.
The' basis of our national ·life is citizenship; that life can be no better
than its people · as citizens make it. In · the present days of national stress
this fact takes on added significance. Therefore, we can do · no better
thing in training our children than to teach them the meaning of community responsibility.
Believing in the usefulness of this concept the Southern California
Past Commanders Association has for the past several years offered two
prizes (gold watches), awarding one to the boy and girl adjudged to have

509

Visitations to Covina Home
September, 1940 :
22-Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674.
Members of 88th Masonic District.
Seaside Lodge No. 504.
Sierra Madre Chapter, 0. E. S.
29-Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355.
October, 1940.
6--Norwalk Lodge No. 315.
20-Lomita Lodge No. 644.
Torrance Lodge No. 447.
Torrance Chapter No. 380, 0. E. S.
27-Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380.
November, 1940:
IO-Highland Park Lodge No. 382.
Members of 87th Masonic District, annual breakfast.
17---:B~njamin Franklin Lodge No. 509.
Jahn B. Spreckels Lodge No. 657.
Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627.
February, 1941:

23-Mo~nt Olive Lodge..No. 506.
Ai;>,ril, )941:
5-Past Matrons' Association of Southern Californfa.
6--West Adams Lodge No. 565.
West Adam$ _Chapter No. 41.1, 0. E. S.
20-Lamanda ·.Park Lodge No.· 627.
27-James A. Garfield Lodge No;::566.
May, 1941 :
4-Montebello Lodge No. 451.:
II-James Madison Lodge _Np. 572 . .
Moneta Lodge No. 405.
· is~Gfassell <Park Lodge Nq. 605.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341.

J. •

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

25-Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0 . E . S.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382.
Hollywood Commandery, K. T.
Palos Verdes Chapter No. 310, 0. E. S.
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633.
Service Chapter No. 414, 0. E. S.
Truth Lodge No. 628.
June, 1941:
Southland Lodge No. 618.
South Park Lodge No. 563.
8-Alta Loma Lodge No. 643.
American Chapter, 0. E . S.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662.
Malta Lodge No. 661.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.
15-Atwater Lodge No. 622.
Eagie Rock Lodge No. 422.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600.
22-Benevolence Lodge No. 631.
Donations to Masonic Home at Covina
Ada Chapter, 0 . E. S., Sacramento-$200.00 for voice training for a
ward of the Home.
Altadena Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 lot jams and jellies; 1 lot of ice cream
bars.
Alta Loma Lodge No. 643-1 lot of children's books.
Amera Club, Fallbrook-1 handmade quilt.
America Chapter, 0. E . S.-1 lot jams and jellies.
Apffel Company, Edward A.-30 pounds coffee, 10 pounds cocoa.
Atwater Lodge No. 622-1 lot jams and jellies.
Baker, H. L.-59 cases cereals; 5 cases canned shrimp.
Beauceant Social Order, Pasadena-1 lot jams, jellies and toys.
Becker Dress Shop, Arcadia-1 lot (17 pieces) girls' clothing.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509-1 lot jams and jellies. ·
Bertoglio, Madelyn-1 printing set.
Bettina Chapter No. 339, 0. E. S.-1 lot jams and jellies.
Buck, D. A. (Palestine Lodge No. 351)-1 set of 20 books.
Bullock's Department Store-1 lot toys.
Carnation Chapter, 0. E. S. Club-1 lot embroidery material.
Central Junior High School (through Earl Eversmeyer)-1 Thanksgiving basket foodstuffs.
Chitty, Wm. L.-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Clark, Daniel (University Lodge No. 394)-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Clayton, Geraldine-1 lot children's books and games.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-2 boxes dates.
Coachella Valley Chapter No. 360, 0. E. S., Past Matrons and
Patrons Association--1 dozen quarts jam.
Corona Lodge No. 324-Refinishing and redecorating Room No. 6,
Senior Girls' Building; 1 table lamp.
Cullingham, James-1 lot jigsaw puzzles.
.
Damascus Lodge, No. 648 (with San Bernardino Lodge · No. 348 and
Phoenix Lodge No. 178)-Rugs and curtains for Intermediate Girls' dormitory.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

511

D'Arcy, Nicholas-1 camera; 1 lot stamps; 2 books; 1 lot airplane
pictures.
Dennis, Alfred E.-1 banjo, 1 music rack.
Downs, Frank R., (Mount Olive Lodge No. 506)-1 lot magazines;
lot engineering books.
Drew Carriage Company-1 lot games and toys.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422-1 lot jams jellies candy, children's
clothing.
'
'
Ellis, Andrew C. (The Gardens Lodge No. 621)-1 lot radio parts.
Engle, Mrs. Minnie (with Mrs. Florence Wiggs)-1 lot dolls and
doll clothes.
Ficklin, Mrs. C. G.-1 lot scrapbooks.
Fish, Helim 0. (Normal Heights Lodge No. 632)-1 set " Book of
Knowledge.''
Fisher, Herbert J .-$10.00 for Treat Fund.
Franklin Chapter, 0 . E . S., Oroville-5 gallons olives.
Ganther, C. F. (Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319)-14 boxes persimmons.
Gardens Chapter, 0 . E. S.-1 lot jams and jellies.
General Food Sales Company-19 cases cereals.
Grand Council, R. & S. M., (through H. F. Save)-1 lot silverware,
dishes, etc., for Girls' Domestic Science Cottage.
Groninger, Mr., (with Mr. Loose)-5 gallons fruit juice.
Gunther, H. W .-1 lot bound funnypapers.
Ham, Mrs. Fred J.-$180.00 to send Boy Scouts to summer camps,
for period of years.
·
Hawaiian Lodge No. -21-$500.00 for Scholarship Fund benefit of
Willhelmina Willgeroth.
'
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662-1 lot jams and jellies; 1 lot ice cream
bars; 1 lot mechanical pencils.
Hernlein, M. J.-2 cans honey.
Herren, A. (Redlands Lodge No. 300)-$2.00 for Treat F und.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382-1 lot jams and jellies,
Hokanson, W. 0.-2 lots magazines; 1 year's subscription to Life
Magazine.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-1 lot roller skates; 20 dozen jars canned
fruit; 339 jars jams, jellies and canned fruit; 1 lot books, games, and toys;
4 bedroom dressers, 6 chairs, 1 desk.
Hollywood Lo<;lge No. 355 and Hollywood Commandery-1 lot jams
jellies, candy, cookies, and honey; $1.00 for Treat Fund.
'
Hope Chapter 0. E. S., (with York Lodge No. 423 and York Chapter
0. E. S.)-2 boxes apples.
Hubbard, Dr. W. W. (Pomona Lodge No. 246)-$35.00 toward construction of skating concourse.
Hunt, Mrs. Laura B.-1 used piano.
Huycke, Charles S. (Signal Lodge No. 543)-1 box groceries.
James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566-1 lot jams and jellies.
James Madison Lodge No. 572-1 lot jams, jellies and magazines.
Jasmine Chapter, 0. E. S.-150 boxes home-made candy.
Jennings, Mrs.-1 lot scrapbooks.
.
!o~nston, Harry J. Estate of, (by Mrs. A. W. Pye)-$2-00.00 for
furmshmgs.
·
Jones, Frank H.-1 lot stamps for stamp collectors.
Jubilee Lodge No. 604, (with Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 and .Silver
Cord Lodge No. 505)-2 rowboats for Camp Tucker.
; .
La Brea Lodge No. 650-$5.00 for Scholarship Fund. ,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND · LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ladwig, Mr. and Mrs. Frank (Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535)lot cookies, popcorn balls.
Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627-2 lots jams, jellies, and assorted foodstuffs; 1 lot magazines; $2.00 for Treat Fund.
Lewis, Egbert G.-lvy plant from Mount Vernon, Virginia.
Loose, Mr., (with Mr. Groninger)-5 gallons fruit juice.
Los Angeles County Forestry and Fire Warden-2 venison carcasses.
Los Angeles Soap Company--150 bars soap.
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674-1 dozen quarts preserves.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529-150 packages fruits, dates, figs.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600-50 pounds candy; 1 lot jams, jellies, candy.
Malta Lodge No. 661-1 lot jams and jellies.
Mardesich, Jos M. (Point Firmin Lodge No. 558)-2 cases tuna fish.
Maroda, John (Lamanda Park Lodge No. 267)-$2.00 for Treat Fund.
Martin, Lloyd F. (Ionic Lodge No. 520)-$3.00 for Treat Fund.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-1 box Christmas gifts.
Masonic District Officers' Assn. No. 87-Painting and decorating
"Frank Wise Room,'" Intermediate Boys' Building.
Masonic . District No. 88-1 lot jams, canned fruits, 100 pounds candy;
lot magazines; 1 lot phonograph records, games, groceries.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-1 lot jams and jellies.
· Monrovia Lodge No. 137-'---1 Christmas gift for each child.
Moore, Geoffry W. (Pasadena Lodge No. 272)-1 lot paints, crayons,
and children's games; 2 dozen puppets.
Morrow, Helen (Cahuenga Chapter No. 413, 0. E. S.)-1 lot jams
and jellies:
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506-For Mount Olive Lodge Recreation
Fund, (2 years ending July 31, 1941) $200.89; 1 used automobile; 1 lot
jams, jellies and tennis balls.
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632 (by Helim 0. Fish)-1 set "Book
of Knowledge."
Norton, Roscoe-several large lots stamps for stamp collectors.
Ore Lei Assn. Matrons of 1937, Burlingame-1 quilt and 1 lot quilting
material.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gallons olives.
· Palos Verdes Chapter No. 414, 0. E. S.-1 lot jams and jellies.
Pasadena Community Playhouse-48 theater tickets for best scholar"
ship students.
Past Matrons' 1933 Club of Southern California, 0. E. S.-1 lot jams
and jellies. ·
Past Matrons and Patrons Association of Southern California, 0. E. S.
-1 adjustable hospitable bed.
Pengilly, M. (Altadena Lodge No. 678)-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202-1 lot jams, jellies, canned goods, nuts.
Peters; Carl-6 cases candy bars; $6.00 for Treat Fund.
Phoenix Lodge No. 178 (with San Bernardino Lodge No. 348 and
Damascus · .Lodge No. 648)-Rugs and curtains for Intermediate Girls'
dormitory.
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633-1 lot jams and jellies.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-50 pounds candy.
Printers Masonic Club of Los Angeles-$25.00 toward construction of
skating concourse.
Pye, Md. A. W. (from estate of Harry · J. J ohnston)-$200.00 for
furnishings.
Quaker Oats Compa·ny-35 cases cerea!s.

Radford, C. R. (Pasadena Lodge No. 272)-1 lot magazines and
crossword puzzles.
.
Rainbow Assemby No. 30~$7.63 for Treat Fund.
Rainbow Girls (in honor of Mark W : ·sexson)-$11.00 to pay expenses
of a Boy Scout to camp.
Rhea, Mrs. Lillian-SO children's books.
Relph, Chet (through Mount Olive Lodge No. 506)-1 used automobile.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397-$25.00 for Entertainment Fund; 1 lot
games and scrapbooks; $11.00 for Treat Fund.
R. & S. M. Grand Council (through Henry F. Save)-1 lot silverware
and dishes for Girls' Domestic Science Cottage.
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348 (with Phoenix Lodge No. 178 and
Damascus Lodge No. 648-Rugs and curtains for Intermediate Girls'
dormitory.
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 (with Silver Cord Lodge No. 505 and
Jubilee Lodge No. 604)-2 rowboats for Camp Tucker.
Santa Monica Bay Pyramid No. 47, Sciots-$25.00 for Treat Fund.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452-$40.00 for class rings for graduates; 1 lot
jams, jellies, scrapbooks.
Schmitt, Mr. and Mrs. Carl-1 lot National Geographic magazines.
Sciots, Santa Monica Bay Pyramid No. 47-$25.00 for Treat Fund.
Seaside Lodge No. 504-1 lot jams, jellies and magazines.
Sierra Madre Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 lot jams and jellies.
Silver Cord Lodge No. 505 (with Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 and Jubilee
Lodge No. 604)-2 rowboats for Camp Tucker.
Simons, Alfred-4 bathing suits.
Smallcomb, Clare T. (University Lodge No. 394)-$1.50 for Treat
Fund.
Smith, Lee (Palms Lodge No. 512)-1 lot radio tubes and parts.
Southern California Gas Company-! gas oven.
Staley, Mr. and Mrs. J. W.-1 girl's sweater.
.
Steen, Tharald, Estate of-$2,078.50 for equipment of playground.
Stoddard, Bert (Corona Lodge No. 324)~300 pounds peanuts.
Stolz, Robert (Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528)-$6.78 for Treat Fund.
Taft Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 lot canned fruits, jams, pickles; 1 leatherette jacket.
Temple City, 0. E. S. (No. 448 Club)-$2.29 for Treat Fund.
Terminal Refrigerating Company---1 case eggs.
· Till, Burton (Golden State Lodge No. 358)-34 scrapbooks.
Torrance Lodge No. 447-2 boxes cookies.
Tripcevitch, John P. (Point Firmin Lodge No. 558)-3 cases tuna
fish; 1 lot magazines.
Trumbull, W. E.~l pair shoes.
Truth Lodge No. 628-1 lot jams and jellies; 1 lot tennis balls.
Union Terminal Warehouse-45 cases cereals.
Upland Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 lot toys.
U. S. Forestry Service-1 venison carcass.
Voit Rubber Company-4 footballs, 4 basketballs, 30 playground balls.
Vuillot, J. E. (Elysian Park Lodge No. 418)-$2.00 for Treat Fund.
. ,. Weber Baking Company-100 pounds fruit cake.
Weisheit, Wm. (through Mount Olive Lodge No. 506)-Repairs and
adjustments for motion picture projector.
Weissert, L. A. (Mizpah Lodge No. 378)-$10.00 for Treat Fund.
West Adams Lodge No. 565, West Adams Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 lot
jams and jellies.
·
·

512

513

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Westerners Club (of Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation)Christmas gift of value of $1.50 for each child in the Home.
Weyman, J0hn B.-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Whitaker, Mr. E. (through Santa Monica Bay Pyramid No. 47, Sciots)
-1 band saw.
Wiggs, Mrs. Florence (with Mrs. Minnie Engle)-1 lot dolls and doll
clothes.
Wilcox, Dr. Walter-1 dental chair, 1 dental cabinet, 1 dental sterilizer,
dental X-Ray machine, 1 set dental instruments.
Wollenberg, Mrs. Albert C.-1 lot silk dresses, 1 silver mesh bag.
York, Lodge No. 423 (with Hope Chapter and York Chapter, 0. E. S.)
-2 boxes apples.
Young, R. ]. (University Lodge No. 394)-$3.00 for Treat Fund.

April, 1941 :
4--Covenant Lodge No. 527 entertained forty . boys at a Fathers
and Sons banquet.
20-Thomas Browne, entertained the children with travel pictures
and a lecture on his travels in Europe.

514

Entertainment and Speakers
August, 1940 :
25-Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380-Annual picnic at Huntington
Beach, with games and sports for children.
September, 1940:
26-R. K. 0 . Compass Club of R. K. 0. Studio, brought out ten child
actors and gave one hour of fine entertainment.
29-Hollywood Commandery, Knights Templar, band concert and
drill of Knig hts Templar.
October, 1940:
6-Masonic Club of Twentieth Century-Fox Studios, entertained 75
boys and girls at baseball game in Hollywood Baseball Park.
November, 1940:
9-Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, furnished an orchestra for a dance
· at the Home. (Under direction of Wm. Atkinson, Senior Warden.)
22- Shell Oil Company entertained children with their sound truck,
brought a magician and treats for the children.
24-Studio Carpenters' Local Union No. 946, gave band concert at
the Home-Mr. Hugh McNutt, Director.
December, 1940:
14-Hollywood DeMolay invited twenty boys and girls to attend a
dance.
21- Hollywood DeMolay furnished tickets to a play for fourteen boys
and girls.
23-Monrovia Lodge No. 308, annual Christmas party with entertainment, and a gift for e.a ch child and houseparent.
January, 1941:
I-Pasadena Masons, in co-operation with Brother C. C. Cole, furnished reserved seats for the Rose Parade, with refreshments for
all.
3-Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, furnished orchestra for a dance
at the Home.
February, 1941:
23-Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, brought a picture to the Home-a
preview of "Golden Hoofs" with Jane Withen;.

515

May, 1941:
2-Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, fu rnished orchestra for a dance at
the Home.
9-Granada Lodge No. 608, entertained boys at their Fathers and
Sons banquet.
16-Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, furnished orchestra for a dance
at the Home.
25-Hollywood Commandery, K nights Templar Band gave a concert
at the Home.
June, 1941:
8---Henry Knox Lodge No. 662, furnished a fine program of entertainment.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Covina Home
August l, 1940 to July 31, 1941

Lodge
No. Amt.
. Acacia ...............•..............438 $ 5.00
Acorn .......,......................494
10.00
5.00
Alamo ......, .......................122
Albert Pike ..................484
5.00
Alcatraz ..................... ,....244
10.00
Alexander Graham
Bell ..............................595
10.00
Alexandria ......................531
5.00
Alisa! ..............................321
5.00
Alta Loma ......................643
10.00
Amador .......................... 65
5.75
Amity ..............................370
10.00
Antioch ..........................175
5.00
Arca ta .........................~ ....! 06
5.00
10.00
Argonaut .........•..............461
Argonne ..........................514
10.00
Arlington ................:.......414
25.00
5.00
. Artesia ............................377
Ashlar ..............................306
5.00
A tascadero ......................493
5.00
Athens ............................228
5.00
5.00
Azusa .•............................305
Bakersfield ......................224
12.05
12.50
Balder ..............................393
Barstow ...................... U. D.
5.00
Bay City ........................ 526
10.00
Bear Mountain ............ 76
5.00
2.50
Bell ...... ,...........................483
Bellflower ......................523
5.00
Berkeley ..........................363
10.00
Beverly Hills ................528
:moo

Lodge
No. Amt.
Blackmer ........................ 442
10.00
Brawley ......................... .402
10.00
Brooklyn ........................225
10.00
Buckeye ............................ 195
5.00
Burlingame ...................400
10.00
Calaveras .......................... 78
5.00
Caledonia ........................486
~. 00
Calexico ..........................412
5.00
Callayomi ........................482
5.00
Canoga ............................611 23.00
Capital City ..................499 10.00
Carquinez ........................337
10.00
Charity ..............................362
5.85
Charter Rock ..................410
10.00
Chico ................................111
10.00
Chowchilla ......................485
10.00
Clay .................................. 101
10.00
Compass ..........................590
5.00
Concord ............................ 117 10.00
Confidence ......................203
2.50
Corcoran ..........................490
6.00
Corinthian ...................... 9
10.00
Coronado ..........................441
5.00
Corona ............................324
10.00
Covenant ........................527
5.00
Crescent .......................... 45
5.00
Crockett ..........................139
10.00
Culver City ......................467
5.00
Cupertino ........................ 510
2.50
Curtis .............................. 140
5.00
Damascus ........................648
5.00

516
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Delta -•---·····-·-'····-······.::......471
Dimond ·--·-··---·-·---·······-····603
Dinuba ····-······-·-··-··-···-··--385
Doric ·-·-······-···-·······-·--······216
Dos Palos ·····---'···-··--·-···681
Downey ····-·······-············--.220
Dunsmuir -·-·········-·······----297
Durant ·-···········-·········--·····268
East Bay ........................489
East Belt ........................391
East Gate · ......................290
East San Diego ···-······-- 56
Eden ···--··--·--·----··-··-·········113
El Cajon Valley ............ 576
El Centro ----···--··-·····--·····384
El Dorado -···-·······-·--······ 26
El Segundo .................... 507
Elsinore --··--·-·-·--·---···--····289
Elmhurst --··--···-·---·····-·---610
Elysian ··'---··-·--·---------····..418
Enterprise ........................ 70
Eureka ···-··············-·······-··· 16
Evergreen ···········-····-··---259
Excelsior -------···-············-··166
Fairmont --···-····---·----·-·--.435
Fallbrook ........................ 317
Ferndale ..•.,--··-··--·-··-·-··--·--193
Fillmore -----·-·-·····-···-··-----379
Fort Crook ········--··-··---····575
Frances Drake ................376
Franklin ·---······-···-·---·--·---143
Fremont ........:...................497
Fresno -····-·-····----·--·--··-·-···247
Friendship ·····-·---------·-····210
Fruitvale ------·-···-·-··-·--····336
Galt -·-····-----··-····---·--·-·---···267
The Gardens ·-··-·--··--·--···621
George Washington ...... 525
Golden Rule --·--·--··-··--·-:.-479
Gold Hill -···--····-·-····-·-······ 32
Granada ·--······-·····--··---·-·-··608
Guardian ..........................596
Hamonton -··-··-··-··-··--·-··.433 ·
Hanford ······-------··-··········279
Hartley ···-··---~----···---···-----.199
Hawaiian --·----·····-·-··········· 21
Hemet :---·---····-···--···---···---615
Henry Clay -····-----·--··-·--· 95
Henry Knox -·····---··--·--··662
Henry Morse --·--····--·-··-'·541
Henry· S. Orme --·--··-·--·-- 8
Hermann ---·-·-·-·---·-··--·--·.127
Highland Park ..............382
Hills Ferry ··--·--·-····---····236
Hiram -·-····-···-··-·-··-··-····--· 43 .

Amt.
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
15.00
5.00
2~ 50

12.50
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
18.00
2.50
25.00
10.00
15.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge
No. Amt.
5.00
Hollenbeck ·--------+·---------319
5.00
Ho 1tville ---···--·--,--:---.--·r:.--.-425
Honolulu ·····-·--·--.--···--··-----409 25.00
10.00
Howard ----·········----.:···---··- 37
2.50
Humboldt ······-·----···--··--· 79
5.00
Illinoistown -·-····-··-···--·--· 51
5.00
Indian Rock --------------------638
10.00
Inglewood -------------·-·-·---.421
2.50
Ione -···-··--------------·······------ 80
5.00
A. F. E: Irwin --··-········-645
2.50
John P. Jarman -----··--····-669
5.00
Jubilee ·-··-·····--·----------····--604
Kauai ···'-·······--····--····-·····589 25.00
5.00
Kaweah ·-··-----····--·--··-·--····665
King David's ..................209
5.00
5.00
Lafayette -···········------------126
5.00
La Jolla -----·-·····-········--··-518
5.00
Lakeshore ---··--····-----·----·--551
5.00
Landmark ·----·-·····--·-·--------253
La Brea ····-·-·-·'···············-·650 20.00
La Parfaite Union .......... 17
2.50
Las Palmas ....................366
5.00
5.00
Laurel ···············-·-----···-····245
le Progres de l'Oceanie..371
15.00
Lexington ····'··········-···'···-104 25.00
Libertas ..........................466
5.00
10.00
Liberty ·-············-·····-····---299
18.00
Lindsay ·················--·····---~416
Live Oak ........................ 61
25.00
Lomita ..............................644
5.00
10.00
Lompoc ·-··-·····-··-···--········.262
15.00
Long Beach ·-······--·-········327
Los Angeles .................... 42
10.00
Los. Cerritos ..................674
8.00
Los Gatos ......................292
10.00
5.00
Madera ··············---~---·······280
Madison .......................... 23
5.00
Malta ..•.. :..........:...............661
5.00
5.00
Madcopa ..... :.:........:.......434
Marin .... _..:...... ______________ .191
12.50
10.00
Martinez ·····-··--···-·-----·-·-·- 41
5.00
Mendocino ····-··-·----········-179
5.00
Meridian -··-----·········--···---~667
5,00
Midway ..........................426
Mill Valley ....................356 25.00
Mission .: ..........................169 12.50
Mizpah ·--·---·-·-················-37.8 20.00
Molino ............ :................. 150
5.00
5.00
Morgan Hill ···-········-····-.-463
Mosaic ,.........................'..218
5.00
Mount Diablo ..................448
2.50
McKinley ......................347
5.00
Mount Moriah .............. 44.
5.00
Mount Oso ....................460
10.00
Mountain View .............. 194
5.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge

No.

Natoma ······-····-·-············ 64
Naval ·····---·--············---··-·-· 87
Needles ················-··-·······-326
Neptune ········----··-··--········-619
Nevada City ···-··············-· 13
Nicolaus ...:...................... 129
Norwalk ------·······•----··-·······315
Oakdale ........................:::.275
Oak Grove ......................215
Oakland ..........................188
Ocean P,ark -----···--···-·······369
Occidental ...................... 22
Olive Branch ..................269
Orange Grove ..................293
Oriental -·--····-····-·-·····-··-.144
Orland .........:....................265
Oxnard ............................341
Pacific Grove ................331
Pajaro ..............................110
Palestine ..........................351
Palisades ..........................637
Palos Verdes ..................389
P asadena ..........................272
Paso Robles ....................286
Penrhyn ···········----------·-·-···258
Petaluma ·--··-············------180
Phoenix ······-·········-···--···--.178
Piedmont ·-·····---··---····-······521
Pinole ··•·········---·-···············353
P lumas ········-----·····-·····-··· 60
Poinsettia ................'. .......633
Point ·········'--·······--·--········503
Point Firmin ..................558
P oint Loma ·······---·-·-··-···620
Pomona -······-------··---··-·--·-.246
Presidio --·--··-·---·-·······-··----354
Redlands ·-·····---···-·---·-····--300
Redondo ..:.....................3"28 ·
Redwood City -··--··--·····-.168
Richmond ·---··--·--·--·----··-··375
Rising Light ---·---···-···-···397
Riverside -······-···---··-·---···635
Rockridge ··-----·-----··-··-'·.468
Roosevelt -···-·-·--··--···--··---500
Roseville ---····---···---··-····---222
Russian River -·····-·--·-··--181
Sacramento ---·········-··-··-··- 40
Salinas ·-·-----------··--·-·-·--·--·204
San Benito ·--··-··--·--··--·-'-il 1
San Bernardino ·-·····-·---348
San Diego ----··-········-········ 35
San Fernando -·····---··--·343
San Francisco --·······--·----360
San Gabriel ·-··--------···-·-·-···546
San Gorgonio ---····-···--·----668

Amt.
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
7.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
20.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
4.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
30.00
5.00
12.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.00

517

Lodge .
No. Amt.
San Jacinto ....................338
5.00
5.00
San Jose -····----····---·--·--·- 10
San Mateo ...... :......:..........226
10.00
10.00
San Miguel ·-··-·--···- ......285
5.00
San Pedro -········---·······-·--·332
10.00
San Simeon --·--·---·····-··---196
10.00
$anta Ana -··--·--------·--·-···241
10.00
Santa Barbara -·-··--···--····192
Santa Cruz --·-··----·····-·····- 38 10.00
2.50
· Santa Maria -----·--··-···-·-···580
5.00
Santa Monica -·-······-·---·-·-307
15.00
Santa Rosa ·····-·---···--··--·-' 57
Seaside ····---------·----·--"'--·--504' 10.00
5.00
Seaport -···-·-·-··------·-······---550
5.00
Security -··--···-···-···---·········581
5.00
Semper Virens -··--··--····-552
10.00
Sequoia ········-··--·----········--349
10.00
Service ·--·-··-·-·-----·-····-···--594
5.00
Signal ·---··----·---:............... 543
10.00
Silver Gate ---·····--··--·-····--296
Silver Trowel ................415
10.00
5'.00
Sincerity ········-··--····-·····---132
5.00
S. W.· Hackett ·------····---574
2.50
Snow Mountain ··-··-----·---271
10.00
Southern California ......278
5.00
Southgate -······------········---320
10.25
Southland ·-----·····----··-·-···-618
5.00
South Pasadena -·--·--···-·367
10.00
So. San Francisco ..........212
10.00
Southwest -----··-·-···-·····---283
5.00
Speranza Italiana ..........219
St. Helena -·-···--·--··········- 93 · 5.00
5.00
Standard -····-·----·-····--·····.-440
10.00
Stanislaus ...!..·------··--···-···206
Starr King -·-···-··-·········: ..344 10.00
5.00
Suisun .............................. 55
5.00
Sunnyvale ········---~---·········511
Sunset ..............................352 15.00
5.00
Table Mountain .....'.......124
5.00
Taft ....................................516
7.50
Tehachapi ......................313
Tehama ............................ 3 10.00
10.00
Temblor ...., ........:..............477
5.00
Temescal ........................314
10.00
Temple ............................ 14
2.50
Texas ········-----------·-···--·--· 46
5.00
Torrance ..........................447
5.00
Trinity ·······-·---····--·--········· 27
5.00
Truckee ............................200
11.00
Tujunga ···········-···-····--·---592
10.00
Tuscan ..........................:...261
12.50
U nion ..:..:.......................... 58
U nity :..............................:368 · 10.00
U niversity ......................394 21.55
Vacaville ........................134
5.00

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No. Amt.
Vallejo ............................487
10.00
2.50
Veritas ..............................640
5.00
Victorville ......................634
Visalia .............................. 128
10.00
10.00
Washington .................... 20
5.00
Wes tern Star ................ 2
10.00
White Pine .................... 555
Willow Glen ..................676
7.50
Wilmington ................... .198
5.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No. Amt.
30.00
Wilshire ............................445
2.50
Woodbridge .................... 131
Woodland ...................... 156
5.00
5.00
Woodstock ..................... .491
5.00
Y erba Buena ..................403
Yolo .................................. 81
2.50
Yosemite .......................... 99
5.00
2.50
Yount ................................ 12

Lodges of Perfection
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Sacramento ...................... 40 $12.50
California ........................ 10 $12.50
Fresno ............................ 6
7.50
San Diego ...................... 8 25.00
Oakland .......................... 2 25.00
San Francisco ................ 1 12.50
Councils, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Council
No.
Amt.
Council
No.
Pomona .......................... 21
$5.00
California ........................ 2 $2.50
Valley ................................ 27
2.50
Pasadena ........................ 16
5.00

· Chapter
No.
Crown ............................ 72
Cyrus ................................ 15
Donner .............................. 39
Doric ................................ 66
El Centro ........................ 109
Ferndale .......................... 78
Fidelity .................•.......... 96
Grass Valley .................. 18
Hanford ............................ · 74
Inglewood ....... ;................ 131
Keystone .......................... 56
Los Angeles .................. 33
Marin ..............................102
Martinez .......................... 31

Chapters, R. A. M.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
$5.00
Nevada ............................ 6 --2.50
5.00
Ontario .......................... 105
2.50
5.00
Petaluma .......................... 22
2.50
5.00
San Gabriel ...................... 100
10.00
5.00
Signet .............................. 57
5.00
5.00
Siloam .............................. 37
5.00
5.00
Southgate ........................ 91
5.00
2.50
South Pasadena .............. 112
5.00
25.00
St. Helena ........................ 63
5.00
Sutter .............................. 11
2.50
5.00
5.00
Washington .................. 13
5.00
10.00
Watsonville .................... 22
5.00
2.50
Wilmington .................. 141
2.50
5.00
Woodland ........................ 46
5.00

Commandery
No.
Alhambra ......................... 48
Bakersfield ...................... 39
Calvary ............................ 62
Chico ................................ 12
Fresno ............................ 29
Golden West ................ 43
Hollywood ············'········· 56
Marysville ........................ 7
Mount Olivet .................. 20
Mount Shasta .................. 32
Naval ...... :......................... 19
Nevada ............................... 6

Commanderies
Amt.
Commandery
No.
10.00
Oroville ............................ 5
5.00
Pasadena .......................... 31
5.00
San Pedro ........................ 60
10.00
Santa Monica .................. 61
2.50
Santa Rosa .................... 14
5.00
Southern California ...... 37
10.00
St. Bernard ...................... 23
5.00
Ukiah .............................. 33
2.50
Vacaville .......................... 38
5.00
Ventura ............................ 18
5.00
Woodland ...................... 21
2.50

Amt.
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Chapter
No.
Ascot ................................437
J ewe! ............................... .238
Miguelito ........................ 176
Mill Valley ----~------········.219

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
25.00
Mira Monte .................... 141
10.00
Pomona .......................... 76
San Rafael ..................... .215
5.00
10.00

519

Amt.
5.00
5.00
10.00

Miscellaneous

~~~~~. \uax~~~r~'. ..~: ..::..::.. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::$ 1~:~~
Black, Stephen A. ..............................................................................................
1.00
Bred ell, Elwood ................................................................................................ 25.00
Brown, Edward A. ........................................................................................
5.00
Cai, Joseph ........................................................................................................
2.00
Columbia Acacia Club ....................................................................................
5.00
Denser, Al ..........................................................................................................
1.00
Edison Masonic Club-Skating ................................................................ 416.43
Elysian Lodge No. 418-J. E. Vuillot ............................................... ,....
2.00
Fish er, Herbert John .................................................................................... 10. 00
Fullerton Lodge No. 339-Wallace Bounds Educational Funds .......... 300.00
Ham, Virginia W.-Boy Scout Fund .................................................... 180.00
Hiram Club-Skating Concourse ................................................................ 100.00
Holcomb, R. G. ..............................................................................................
2.50
Los Angeles Oil and Grease Co........................ :......!................................... 30.00
Martin, Lloyd F.-Treat Fund ....................................................................
3.00
1-1 ason, Arthur J. ..............................................................................................
5. 00
Masonic Officers' Association ................................................. ,.................. 12.50
Masonic District Officers Association No. 101 .......................................... 35.00
Midway Lodge No. 426-Graduation gift for Frank Bowen ..................
2.50
National Federated Craft No. 2 .................................................................. 32.25
Northrup, M. E. .......................................................................................... 10.00
Officers' Club of the 39th Masonic District ................................................
5.00
Olney, W. T. ..................................................................................................
5.00
Past Matrons' Association ............................................................................
5.00
Pederson, Mr. and Mrs. Karl E. .............................................................. 12.50
Peninsula Bodies, A. & A. S. R. .................................................................... 10.00
Point Loma Lodge No. 620-birthday gift for Harold Heyman............
5.00
Pye, Mrs. A. W.-donation from estate of Harry R. Johnston ............ 100.00
Rabinovitz, S. ....................................................................................................
1.00
Rainbow Girls, Order of-to send Boy Scout to camp .......................... 11.00
Richards, W. D. .............................................................................................. 10.00
Rising Light Lodge No. 397-Treat Fund ................................................ 10.00
San Jose Chapter, Order of DeMolay-for DeMolay Scholarship
Fund .........................,...................................................................................... 10.00
Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers' Association ................................
5.00
Santa Monica Sciots No. 47 ........................................................................... .' 25.00
Shuffleton, M. A.-graduation gift for Joe and Wm. Wagnon..............
5.00
Smith, Wiley Randolph ..............................................................................
2.00
Thormure, Arthur J. ........................................................................................
5.00
Vuillot, J. E. ......................................................................................................
2.00
VI' allace, A. G. .................................................................................................. 5.00
Whipple, C. ........................................................................................................ 10.00
White, Ray A. ....................................................................................................
2.00
Wilshire Social Club .......................................................................... ......... 10.00

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Children at Covina Home, July 31, 1941
BOYS- 78
Name
Admitted
Anderson, NeiL.............Feb. 25, '37
Anderson, Ray ..............July 6, '38
Anderson, Roy..............July 6, '38
Baker, Kenneth ............Aug. 3, '28
Bayer, Oscar................ Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Roy...:................ Aug. 27, '33
Bowen, Robert ..............Oct. 2, '36
Breinin, Lawrence...... Aug. 11, '29

Lodge
No.
Garden Grove.... 586
Garden Grove.... 586
Garden Grove.... 586
West lake ............392
Westlake ............351
Westlake ............351
Arlington ..........414
San Bernardino ..348

Brown, Robert ..............Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles........ 42
Brown, William............ Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles........ 42
Casabian, Daniel .......... Dec. 18, '38 Sunset ................352
Chew, Donald................Jan. 22, '39 Rio Vista............208
Chew, William..............]an. 22, '39 Rio Vista............208
Collins, Eugene............Mar. 22, '38 Solano ................229
Collins, Trenton.......... Mar. 22, '38 Solano ................229
Davis, Robert ................June 20; '37 East San Diego .. 561
Dyer, John JoeL..........July 8, '40 Yorba Linda ......469
Fretheim, Richard ........ Apr. 17, '39 Alta Loma..........643
Geddes, Stanley........... .]une 16, '39 Sequoia ..............349
Haines, Ross ................Aug. 25, '38 Granada ..............608
Hardenbrook, Donald.... Nov. 8, '38 Morning Star...... 68
Heyman, Harold.......... Nov. 8, '39 Point Loma:.......620
Hill, Donald .................. Dec. 17, '39 Sequoia ..............349
Hoey, William .............. Sept. 9, '40 Fruitvale ............336
Hopkins, Hugh ............ Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula........291
Hopkins, PauL. ........... Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula........291
Hopkins, Robert... ....,.. Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula........291
Houtz, Lawrence.......... Feb. 9, '35 Alhambra ..........322
Houtz, Walter..............Feb. 9, '35 Alhambra ..........322
Hughes, Gene................July 4, '41 Salinas ................ 204
Tohnston, Calvin ..........July 1, '38 Lynwood ............600
Johnston, Walter........ Sept. 4, '37 Lynwood ............600
Tones, Paul ....................July 29.•1f''34 1 Orange Grove....293
Klahr, Gerald................ Apr. 27, '41 .. Florence ..............649
Kotsenburg, William..June 11, '40 La Mesa..............407
La Voie, William.......... Feb. 22, '32 Phoenix .............. 178
Linfesty, Ralph .......... Nov. 27, '40

Phoenix .......... _.. 178

Lord, Richard ..............July 27, '29
Lord,· Robert..................] uly 27, '29
Lundquist, Frederic ......June 29, '38
McLean, Norman ........ May 9, '39
Mascaro, Ralph ............Feb. 19, '37
Mau, Charles ................June 17, '35
Maxwell, Allan ............Mar. 4, '32
Miller, George.............. Nov. 3; '40
Mills, Kenneth .............. Nov. 17, '40
Monroe, James..............Jan. 21, '31
Monroe, Preston ............Jan. 21, '31

Golden W est......455
Golden W est......455
Mt. Diablo..........448
Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Granada ..............608
Mission .............. 169
Albert Pike ........484
Military Service.. 570
Live Oak. ............. 61
Orland ................265
Orland ................265

Locatio1i Age
Garden Grove.. 11
Garden Grove.. 9
Garden Grove.. 9
Los Angeles.... 16
Los Angeles.... 15
Los Angeles .... 13
Los Angeles.... 11
San Bernardino ........ 16
Los Angeles .... 15
Los Angeles .... 17
Los Angeles.... 10
Rio Vista..........15
Rio Vista.......... 10
Vallejo ............ 16
Vallejo ............ 13
San Diego........ 16
Yorba Linda· .. 7
~ignal Hill ......10
Oakland .......... 16
Alhambra ........ 9
Stockton ........ 12
San Diego........ 11
Oakland .......... 8
Oakland .......... 14
Santa Paula .... 16
Santa Paula .... 12
Santa Paula .... 13
Alhambra ........ 15
Alhambra ........ 16
Salinas ............10
Lynwood ........ 9
Lynwood ........ 12
Orange :.....::..'.:17
Los Angeles.... 12
La Mesa· .......... 10
San Bernardino ........ 17
San Bernardino ........ 7
San Francisco.. 16
San Francisco.. 18
Concord .......... 11
San Francisco.. 16
Alhambra ........ 12
San Francisco .. 12
Los Angeles.... 16
San Francisco.. 11
Oakland ......~... 7
Orland ...,.:...... 18
Orland .......:....16

Name
Admitted
Munck, Theodore........ Dec. 2, '39
Munro, Donald ,..........,Aug. 21, '36
Palmer, Kenneth ......,.Aug. 10, '38
Palmer, Walter............Aug. 10, '38
Parker, Clarence ..........Sept. 7, '36
Parker, Ronald ............ Nov. 19, '39
Pearl, George.............. Sept. 11, '38
Peterson, Kenneth ........July 22, '36
Pilz, Theodore.........,.... May 9, '41
Robbins, Harlan............July 1, '38
Rogers, Gordon ...........;.July 9, '35
Sachau, William.........::.July 18, '35
Schelling, Eugene ........July 26, '39
Schoenfeld, Stanley...... May 19, '40
Smith, Arthur................Jan. 27, '39
Speziali, J ohn................J une 26, '36
Sweeney, Eugene..........July 17, '40
Van Kirk, Richard .....:Dec. 30, '34
Wagnon, Frank............Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, Joseph ............Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, William ........Jan. 12, '35
Walline, Cleon .........:....Jan. 31, '30
Weston, Donald............Jan. 7, '40
Weston, Fred................Jan. 7, '40
Weston, James..............Jan. 7, '40
Whitman, Philip ..........July 1, '36
Wilson, William.......... Aug. 17, '36
\Vimberly, Raymond .. Nov. 21, '37
Witherell, Frank..........Oct. 8, '39
Zahn, Jerome................ Oct. 19, '33

Lodge
No.
Hollywood ........355
Alta Loma..........643
Alex. G. Bell......595
Alex. G. BelL....595
Natoma .............. 64
Lamanda Park ..627
Alpha ..................431
Argonne ............ 514
Alcatraz ..............244
Silver Gate..........296
Valley Forge...... 587
Victory ..............474
South Gate..........320
Olive Branch ......269
Presidio ..............354
Hemet ............:...615
Sunnyside ..........577
Golden City........ 553
Western Star...... 2
Western Star...... 2
Western Star...... 2
Winnedumah ....287
Jno. D. Spreckels 657
Jno. D. Spreckels 657
]no. D. Spreckels 657
HGllyWood ..........355
Alta Loma ..........643
Wilmington ......198
South Park ........563
San Francisco....360

GIRLS-41
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Aldrich, Marian............ Aug. 4, '39 All States............593
Alex,· Virginia ......•.......] une 25, '37 Utopia ................537
Alexander, Arnell........ Mar. 24, '38 Starr King..........344
Atamian, Maxine ........Sept. 10, '34 Arlington ..........414
Bayer, Carol..................Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ............351
Bottger, Eleanor.......... Mar. 3, '36 Herrnann ............ 127
Bottger, Jewel.............. Mar. 3, '36 Hermann ............ 127
Bowen, Olive ................ Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ..........414
Campbell, Claire ···-···July 10, '37 Henry Knox......662
Campbell, Louise..........July 10, '37 Henry Knox......662
Casabian, Lucy ............ Dec. 18, '38 Sunset ................352
Clark, Catherine.......... Nov. 29, '39 Seaside ................504
Clark, Irene.................:Nov. 29, '39 Seaside ................ 504
Clinton, Betty ;..:.......... Nov. 7, '36 Altadena ............678
Connery, Rose.............. Aug. 28, '35 Ramona ..............457
Dalmeyer, Sally Ann .. Mar. 15, '36
Dudley, Vereen ............ Mar. 4, '40
Johnston, Marybelle.. Sept. 4, '37
Klahr, Marjorie............ Apr. 27, '41
Kotsenburg, Gertrude ..June 11, '40

Sunrise ................522
Richmond ..........375
Lynwood ............600
Florence ..............649
La Mesa..............407

521
Location Age
Hollywood .:.... 15
Signal Hill .... 13 ,
Los Angeles.... 9
Los Angeles....11
Folsom City .... 15
Pasadena ........ 9
Richmond ......15
San Francisco.JS
Oakland .......... 7
San Diego ...... 9
Los Angeles.... 16
San F rancisco.. 18
Los Angeles.... 8
Tulare ............11
San Francisco..16
Hemet .............. 14
Los Angeles .... 13
San Francisco.. 13
Shasta .............. 13
Shasta ..............15
Shasta ............i4
Bishop ............17
San Diego ...... 8
San Diego ........14
San Diego ........ 10
Hollywood ...... 14
Signal Hill ....14
Wilmington .... 17
Los Angeles.... 15
San Francisco..17

Location Age
Long Beach .... 15
Los Angeles .... 16
San Francisco.. 15
Los Angeles ... .17
Los Angeles.... 17
San Francisco ..12
San Francisco.. 14
Los Angeles .... 13
Los Angeles~... 15
Los Angeles ....13
Los Angeles ... .13
Long Beach .. ~ .15
Long Beach ... .12
Altadena ........ 14
Monterey
Park ............. 16
Los Angeles... .16
San Francisco.. 9
Lynwood ........ 15
Los Angeies ....11
La Mesa .......... 15

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
La Voie, Audrey............} an. 22, '38

Lodge
No.
Phoenix .............. 178

McCallum, Margaret.. Mar. 31, '35
Mills, Elizabeth ............ N ov. 17, '40
Munck, Adele ................ Dec. 2, '39
Munro, Jean .................. Aug. 21, '35
Muse, Donna ................ Sept. 17, '36
Parbery, Alice .............. Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Catherine...... Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Phyllis .......... Mar. 26, '31
Parke, Pauline ............ Mar. 23, '41
Peterson, Jacqueline......} uly 22, '36
Plaster, Elizabeth ........ Sept. 23, '32
Roach, Marion ............ Aug. 24, '40
Satterberg, Lorraine .... Sept. 6, '40
Schoenfeld, May............ May 19, '40
Smith, Winifred ............Jan. 27, '39
Speziali, Pearl ..............] une 26, '36
Speziali, Thelma..........June 26, '36
Taylor, Marilyn .......... Sept. 17, '39
Wall, Eleanor................. Apr. 5, '32
Whitaker, Patricia........ Apr. 29, '36

Monte Vista ........655
Live Oak.............. 61
Hollywood ........ 355
Alta Loma..........643
Dunsmuir ......... .297
Excelsior ............ 166
Excelsior ............ 166
Excelsior ............ 166
Tujunga .............. 592
Argonne ............ 514
South Park. ......... 563
Antioch .............. 175
Stockton .......... ..498
Olive Branch ..... .269
Presidio .............. 354
Hemet ................615
Hemet ................615
Victory ..............474
Monrovia ............ 308
Henry S. Orme ..458

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Location Age
San Bernardino ........ 14
Long Beach .. 15
Oakland .......... 11
Hollywood ...... 15
Signal Hill .... 15
Dunsmuir ........ 12
San Francisco .. 17
San Francisco .. 14
San Francisco .. 15
Tujunga .......... 8
San Francisco .. 11
Los Angeles .... 14
Antioch ............ 15
Stockton .......... 15
Tulare .............. 7
San Francisco .. 14
Hemet .............. 11
Hemet ............ 16
San Francisco .. 10
Monrovia ........-16
Los Angeles__ .. 11

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home, July 31, 1941
Date Began
Name
Lodge
No.
1937
Beauchamp, Donald ..................Pentalpha .............................. 202 May,
1937
Beauchamp, Robert ..................-Pentalpha ..............................202 May,
1937
Beachamp, Willard ...................•Pentalpha ............................. .202 May,
Berger, Anna Mae ..........•...........Ascot ...................................... 538 Sept. 1937
Berger, Jack. ..............................•Ascot ...................................... 538 Sept. 1937
1940
Connery, Dean .......... :..., .•...,.........Ramona ...................._..............457 Aug.
1934
Doblough, Grace ......................-Sunset .................................... 352 Feb.
1934
Doblough, Ruth ..........................Sunset .................................... 352 Feb.
1940
Dyer, Vernon ........................•..•.•Yorba Linda ....................... .469 July,
June,
1937
Sept. 1940
Gross, Harry..............................-West Gate ............................ 335 Sept. 1940
1936
Jones, Charles ...............................Blythe ................................... .473 Aug.
1936
Jones, Harry............................•...Blythe ................................... .473 Aug.
1935
Lasher, Edna ..............................-San Pedro .............................. 332 May,
1940
Parker, Lowell... ......................... Lamanda Park ....................627 Feb.
1939
Stafford,· Bernice ...................... _Rising Light ........................ 397 Sept.
1941
Tillmans, Benjamin ....................Palisades ................................ 637 Feb.
1941
Tillmans, Daniel.. ........................Palisades ................................637 Feb.

~!~~~. §~e?J.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~e:~ela;:~···:::::::::::::::::::::::::j~g

Admitted to Covina Home August 1, 1940-July 31, 1941
Name
Admitted
Hoey, William .............. Sept. 9, '40
Hughes, Gene ............... .]uly 4, '41
Klahr, Gerald ................ Apr. 27, '41
Linfesty, Ralph ............ Nov. 27, '40

BOYS-7
Lodge
No.
Fruitvale ............ 336
Salinas ................ 204
Florence .............. 649
Phoenix .............. 178

Miller, George .............. Nov. 3, '40
Mills, Kenneth .............. Nov. 17, '40
Pilz, Theodore.............. May 9, '41

Military Service .. 570
Live Oak ............. 61
Alcatraz .............. 244

Location Age
Oakland .......... 14
Salinas ........... .10
Los Angeles .... 12
San Bernardino ........ 7
San Francisco .. 11
Oakland .......... 6
Oakland .:........ 7

523

GIRLS-5
Name
Admitted
Klahr, Marjorie ..... ;....·.. Apr. 27, '41
Mills, Elizabeth ............ Nov. 17, '40
Parke, Pauline ............ Mar. 23, '41
Roach, Marion ............ Aug. 24, '40
Satterberg, Lorraine .... Sept. 6, '40

Lodge
No.
Florence .............. 649
Live Oak. ............. 61
Tujunga .............. 592
Antioch .............. 175
Stockton ........... .498

Location Age
Los Angeles ... .11
Oakland ..........11
Tujunga .......... 8
Antioch ...........• 15
Stockton ........ 15

Departed During the Year August 1, 1940-July 31, 1941
BOYS-20
Name
Admitted
Bach, Vernon., .................. Nov. 17, '37
Birnbaum, Arthur ............ Aug. 10, '36
Bowen, Alvin ....•................... Oct. 2, '36
Bowen, Charles .................... Oct. 2, '36
Bowen, Richard .................. Oct. 2, '36
Brown, Frank. ..................... Dec. 6, '38
Burns, Roland .................... Dec. 28, '35
Challacombe, William ......June 22, '35
Colvin, James ...................... Dec. 8, '34
Crawford, Robert ................ Oct. 1, '32
Dobson, Glenn ............... .-... .] une 10, '40
Fuller, Harry...................... Oct. 6, '35
Jones, Richard ....................July 29, '34
Richardson, James ............June 29, '40
Schulze, Frank. ................... May 11, '28
Van Kirk, Stanley............ Dec. 30, '34
Weston, Robert .................. Feb. 1, '40
Wilson, John.'. .................... Sept. 7, '36
Wilson, Robert .................. Sept. 7, '36
Wright, Robert .................. Apr. 20, '40

Age When
Departed
Discharged
19
Feb. 16, '41.. .............. _..........
15
Apr. 13, '41............................
July 13, '41............................
16
June 12, '41............................
18
July 20, '41............................
14
June 19, '41............................
14
Aug. 9, '40............................
14
14
Aug. 18, '40............................
June 24, '41............................
17
June 13, '41............................
17
Nov. 17, '40............................
15
June 14, '41............................
19
June 13, '41............................
18
June 11, '41............................
11
16
Sept. 10, '40............................
11
Sept. 1, '40............................
June 13, '41............................
17
June 14, '41............................
17
June 14, '41............................
15
Dec. 24, '40.:..........................
10

GIRLS-8
Admitted
Name
Casabian, Ruth .................. Dec. 27, '34
Clinton, J oann .............•.... Nov. 7, '36
Hall, Ruth .......................... Sept. 23, '34
Horr, Margaret ....................Jan. 27, '40
Lewellen, Edna ..................July 18, '34
Urban, Helen ...................... May 12, '34
Willgeroth, Eleanora........ May 25, '28
Wright, Ruth ...................... Apr. 20, '40

Age When
Departed
Discharged
June 30, '41............................
18
Sept. 1, '40............................
17
16
Feb. 4, '41............................
Apr. 24, '41............................
17
15
Sept. 28, '40............................
June 14, '41............................
18
July 6, '41. ......................... :.
18
Dec." 24, '40 ................. :..........
14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

524

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

w:.

To the M:.
Grand Lodge of California:
Your board herewith presents its ninth annual report being for the
period between July 31, 1940 and July 31, 1941.

The board is now constituted as follows:
1941
Ernest G. Bashor
Arthur S. Crites
Louis C. Drapeau
J . T. Fraser
Ira D. Wheeler

1942
'Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Edmund A. Lockett
Robert B. Gaylord
Henry G. Hill
Frank M. Smith

1943
Reynold E . Blight
Jos. L. Shell
Harry F. White
Carl E . Miller
Rollie W. Miller

The officers of the board are:
Frank M. Smith, Chairman
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Vice Chairman
Robert B. Gaylord, Vice Chairman Wm. P. Filmer, Treasurer
Reynold E. Blight, Secretary
Annual Report-1941
The entire world today is acutely and vitally concerned with headlines. Whether these headlines be written by free and unrestrained hands
or through the mandates of dictators, they represent the passing scene in
which we all must of necessity take a part-large or small as the case may
be.
The stories recently told in these headlines are on the ancient theme, repeated anew, ~f man's inhumanity to man. They tell of the horrors of
modern warfare, of sly misrepresentation in or-der to gain an end. They
tell of conquests over defenseless peoples and of the murder of ancient
faiths and beliefs. Through the banner lines of world presses we learn of
the ruthlessness, the all-out efforts, of despots to impose their rule of might
and brute force upon a world staggering under the impact of tyranny and
destruction. They tear away the crusts of civilization and reveal the savage
beneath.
D ay and night these headlines assail us, pounding into our minds the
incessant stories of lust and intolerance. There is no escape, no relief,
from the constantly repeated tales of violence on land, on sea, and in the
air. These horrors are actually happening and must be told. We must be
told of the incredible fall of nations, of the rule of organized arrogance
·and military might, of lurking submarines in the waters of the world, of
downtrodden symbols representing peaceable pursuits and endeavors, of
the horrible aftermath of incendiary bombings of populous areas. We
must be told because it is actually happening; of piracy on the high seas;
of pledges broken between nations formerly proud of their national honor;
of the ascendancy into world diplomacy of the qualities of cunning, deceit,
and force instead of the honorable and decent policies of the past; of the
crucifixion of tolerance, kindness, and brotherly love.
These are the headlines of the day-ghastly, unbelievable, yet horribly
true. And because of its fearful truth we must all struggle, must fight and
endure, while the doctrines of force and assumption of power are alive
in the world.
There is, however, another headline, another banner, that streams
0

525

across the lands of the world today and enfolds within its kindly embrace
the hearts of all mankind. It is the headlines of the heart, and it is of those
headlines that the Board would speak today. It is the headlines of simple
kindness, of benevolent care and protection, the unsung, unseen headlines
written by the sacrifice and brotherly love of the humane and charitable.
We of the Jurisdiction have made those headlines, have written by our
faint efforts during the past year, as in years gone by, the lines that
make up the completed paragraphs and chapters. Without fanfare, without ostentation, but with strong determination we have gone forward and
produced, in a world gone mad, the fruits of benevolence and compassion.
While the completed results for the year do not wholly represent the
full potential power of the Jurisdiction, nonetheless the Board is happy
and proud to present its report, realizing the serious need of the times and
the many calls made upon the Brethren by numerous programs, patriotic
and charitable.
Program for Year
Adhering to its stated policy of encouraging purely voluntary contributions, the Board dedicated its services during the past year to the
educational theme rather than to a promotional or quota drive for funds.
We restate and reaffirm our belief in such a program. We believe that
with the growth of knowledge among the Brethren concerning the Homes
project, the dissemination of facts and figures regarding the Homes proper,
the intimate and personal stories emanating from the individuals making
up the Homes, the facts of capable and humane management, and finally,
the utmost security guaranteed by the Permanent Endowment Fund, we
believe all these things not only will cause a birth of interest and concern
among the uninformed brethren, but will cause as well a renewal and rededication of efforts among those who have so generously participated
in the past.
The sum total of the Board's endeavors were this year given to the
task of serving as agents rather than that of an agency. Our stewardship
consisted merely of representing and acting for the Jurisdictional officers, the Masters, Secretaries, Home Endowment Chairmen, and of
those Craftsmen of Constituent Lodges who actively and with great
generosity and sacrifice carried out the vital work of the program through ~
out the year. To .them goes all the credit. To them the Board is greatly
appreciative of the opportunity extended by the program of serving with,
and for them, in the interests of those in our care at Decoto and Covina.•
Ours was merely the ministry, in their name, for the great privilege of constructive and lasting service, and we are des'i rous of recording our deep
gratitude and appreciation to every one who participated in the great
charitable program of the Jurisdiction.
In our capacity as agents for the great endeavor of the Homes, the
Board handled 16,030 pieces of incoming and outgoing correspondence.
In addition to this, 87,690 pieces of literature covering various phases of the
program were sent to the Lodges, which requested printed matter regarding
the Homes. The bulk of the outgoing correspondence consisted of regular
messages forwarded to Masters, Secretaries, and Homes Endowment Chairmen, and contained ideas, methods of procedure, educational items on the
Homes proper, and messages from Grand Lodge officials bearing on the
program. The incoming correspondence dealt mainly with requests for
information, reports of progress within the sender's Lodge, calls for
printed material. and checks to be added to the endowment fund.

526

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Following out the program of economy instituted last year in curtailing expenses of printing new pamphlets, the Board urged Lodge officials
to order from the large supply already on hand. These pamphlets, covering
practically every phase of the program and illustrated with pictures of the
Homes buildings, the adjoining grounds and recreational facilities, and
with photographs of the management and of the Home Guests, were
widely distributed throughout the Jurisdiction and undoubtedly contributed
much to the individual Craftsman's enlightenment regarding the great
vision-made real through characteristic Mason\c generosity.
One new pamphlet was added during the year to the long list already
available to the Craft. This pamphlet found wide distribution and elicited
much favorable comment from whose who took the time to secure and
read it. Published under the title of " Foster-Parentage of California
Masonry," it was written around a letter received by one of the House
Mothers at Covina from a graduate of the Home. It is illuminating and
heart warming, in that it portrays splendidly the heritage with which the
graduates of Covina are endowed as they leave the Home to face the
problems of life. In no finer way could the story of our sacred stewardship of the Homes be told than through the written though ts of one who
actually experienced "the filling of the gap" between bereavement and homelessness and that of security and wantedness. The Board strongly suggests
that all Masons of California secure a copy of this pamphlet from their
respective Secretaries and learn with pride of the glorious part their
contributions take in making their fo ster-parentage a definitely real and
splendid thing.
As a service to Secretaries and Editors of Lodge Bulletins, the Board
forwarded a list of briefs, composed of short sentences and paragraphs
bearing on Homes data for inclusion, throughout the year, in the monthly
'releases of Lodge news. We are gratified to report that these briefs were
widely used and served as a distinct contribution to the work at hand. A
careful check-up on Lodge Bulletins carrying these informative briefs
regularly revealed a greater interest in Home affairs among the Brethren
of that Lodge with a correspondingly high r esponse in contributions. The
Board strongly recommends the continued use of these Bulletin briefs in
the months to come.
Total Assets for Year
The total amount of $28,142.49 received for the year came through
436 Constituent Lodges and represented a total of 6623 individual contributors.
The following financial chart shows the number and percentages
realized during the year :
Number of Lodges contributing, 436.
Number of Lodges failing to make reports, 149.
Percentage of participating Lodges, 74.5%.
Number of individual contributors, 6,623.
Total amount contributed, $28,142.49.
Percentage of donors in comparison with Jurisdiction membership,
5.25%.
Last year's percentage, 5.02%.
The various amounts contributed, together with the number of donors
of such a1?1ounts, are contained in the following table :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$

.25 ······-------·-······· 18
.35 ------···········----·
2
----------····..······ 128
.75 ········-·············
5
1.00 ......................2451
1:40 ··········-··········· 40
1.50 ·················-···· 61
1.75 ......................
3
2.00 ...................... 1460
2.50 ······-···········--·· 258

.so

527

3.00 ...................... 364
12.00 ...................... 11
3.50 ---···········-·······
9
12.50
4
4.00 ........................ 62
15.00 ........................ 15
5.00 ...................... 1220
20.00 ---······-············ 27
6.00 ...................... 37
25.00 ...................... 31
7.00 .......................
5
40.00 ······················
2
8.00 ······················ 7
50.00 ...................... 12
9.00 ----·-----······-·..·· 4 100.00 ................... .....
6
10.00 ....................... 313 1000.00 ........................
1
11.00 ·······-·········--···
3
Oo o o o o OO O O H O Oo•O OO OOO

.
Testamentary Gifts
Individual gifts and bequests of cash were received during the year as
follows, in addition to the bequests of securities included in the auditor's
report :
Charles M. W ollenberg .......................:........................$ 452.10
Ernest K. Little .............................................................. 600.00
Henry H . Meyer Estate .................... ,......................... 1,000.00
Alfred ]. Ismay Estate ................................................ 3,075.42
Tonningsen Estate ........................................................ 5,572.35
David A. Smith Estate ................................................ 2,600.00
Albert E . and Catherine Richards Estate................ 251.66
Gabriela Gramenz Estate ............................................ 500.00
Minnie Madden Estate .............................................. 3,402.50
Harriet A. Cave Estate ................................................ 1,042.54.
Thomas J. Evans Estate .............................................. 1,000.00
Elizabeth K lotz Estate ................................................ 200.00
Kate C. McGavin Estate .......... ~................................. 600.00
Seward W. Johnson Estate ........................................ 190.31
Total Assets of Fund
The total assets of the Permanent Endowment Fund, which includes
the regular fund a nd the Luckenbach Fund, show the fo llowing increase
for the fi seal year :
•Amount of fund, J uly 31, 1941 ............................................$1,317,715.99
Amount of fund, J uly 31, 1940 ............................................ 1,228,584.89
Increase during the current year ........................•.......$

89,131.10

Accounted for as fo llows :
Cash donations and bequests :..... ~.........................................$63,827.91
Securities by donations and bequests .................................... 7,302.00
Net profit on securities sold and redeemed ............................ 18,001.19
Net increase as above ..............:.........................................$89,131.10
The endowment fund income earned during the fiscal year and transferred to the Masonic Homes General Fund amounted to $42,047.76.

Other Endowment Funds:
The following funds, which will eventually become part of the Endowmen Fund, are recorded in the Masonic Homes general fund records in
order to simplify th e payments on the annuity contracts which each fund
carries. A full report on these funds is included in our report on' the Masonic
Homes General Fund.

528

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Charles N. -Flint Trust.
Charles N. Flint Annuity.
Charles N. Flint Annuity.
George H. and Harriet C. Wadleigh Annuity.
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity.
Appended to this report will be found the report of the auditors
authorized J:>y the Finance Committee to audit the accounts of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes, together with list of
the Lodges, membership and amounts contributed by each constituent
lodge.
The grand total of the Endowment Fund as of July 31, 1941, was
$1,317,715.99.
Since July 31, 1941, the sum of $2,836.92 has been contributed.
An appropriation of $6,000 was made at the last annual communication
for the expenses of your Endowment Board, and the whole of the said
sum has been expended, as shown by the following account:
1941 Receipts
Balance shown by 1940 report ....'".....................,.._. .........- ....$ 49.10
Appropriation of 1940 Grand Lodge ..........,.............................6,000.00

Total ---··------············--·········--····-------·-······-········-···········-·

$6,049.10

1941 Disbursements
Printing•and supplies .......................................~ ...................... ~$2,922.74
Postage ...............................................................·......................... 353.80
Expense Board meetings ·············································-·····.,.·· 506.85
Stenographic· and clerical help ................................................ 2,155.00

Total checks drawn from October 18, 1940 to September 23, 1941, as per vouchers ························

5,938.39

Cash in bank as of September 23, 1941 ........................

$ 110.71

In order that your Board may function during the ensuing year, we
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
•
"Resolved that the sum of six thousand dollars be and is. hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board for its expenses for the year ending July 31,
1942."
Home V isitations
A hospitable and cordial welcome for all Brethren has ever been a
warm reality at both the Decoto and Covina Homes. The portals have
ever been flung wide with gracious friendliness for all who care to e~ter
and mingle with the Home Guests on the ground hallowed by generat10ns
of Masonic benevolence.
Decoto and Covina by virtue of their unique place in the charitable
history of the Jurisdiction should be the Mecca of all California Craftsmen.
They should be included in the itinerary o~ ever:l'. conscious M_ason! ?eca~se
within their halls dwells the physical manifestation ~f Masonic spmt~ahty.
Abiding within their predncts :ire the yields of man's finest and highest
instincts-brotherly love·, kiiidn·e ss, compassion.
It has been for years the B~~rd's constant desire and expressed h~p.e
that every Mason in California would, at some time or another, pay a v1s1t

529

to the institutions symbolizing the precepts and principles of the Craft.
We sincerely believe that a visit would constitute an object lesson in the
fundamental maxims of the Fraternity and be of lifelong value to the
pilgrim in measuring such doctrines of faith and good will.
The great good such a visit would produce would be twofold: first, the
pilgrim himself would be vastly benefited by such contact and would be in
a better position properly to judge the actualities of the Homes Endowment program; secondly, the Home guests would come to realize through
such friendly association that the program was not one based on abstract
principles of charity alone, but one alive with the warmth of human understanding and human comradeship.
The visitor "could see for himself the happiness of the children, the
contentment of the elders. He could see the physical manifestation of
an ideal. He could see many monuments erected by the desire of an
individual, or of a group, to make their living presence felt in practical and
useful things for many years to come-the dining halls, swimming pools,
recreational apparatus, temples, dormitories and hospitals-all erected
by and bearing the name of a gracious donor in perpetuity. He would
realize that here, here in this place consecrated by years of Masonic idealism,
of security:, contentment and peace, where a successive parade of homeless,
orphaned, and bereaved were sheltered, fathered, and made happy, here
indeed was the place where he, as an individual, or acting in concert with
his fellow Craftsmen, could best erect his monument in and for a real and
lasting benefaction.
The portals of the Homes are ever open to welcome those who would
seek and find. May the Board, voicing the cordial invitation of the Grand
Lodge, the management, the Home guests; present again to all Craftsmen
the opportunity an·d privilege of viewing at the Homes the practical application of Masonic solicitude and kindness.

Bequests
Testamentary gifts to the Fund this year totaled $35,850.62. Of this
amount the smallest totaled $1.00, while th e largest reached the figure of
$10,343.50.
The Permanent Endowment Fund will absorb these bequests and will
pay out in the many years to come the financial interest made possible by
the generous hearts of the donors. Needless to say, these bequests have
been placed in sound investments and will be carefully g uarded by the
Board in order that they may never lessen, never cease, their constant flow
of material good to the general program.
·
The Board wishes in this report to accord full credit to attorney members of the Craft, who have made available to their clients fu ll and complete
. information regarding the Homes, and in doing so have presented the
opportunity to such clients for making lasting benefactions. This splendid
work, for and in behalf of the Homes at Decoto and Covina, is fully appreciated by the Grand Lodge and has earned the admiration and deep
gratitude of the Board, ·which has, in many cases, been privileged to cooperate with such attorneys in the preparation of wills and bequests.
It is a matter of great pride to the Board to know that this great work
is still going on, that members of the legal profession are donating their
services in this regard, telling their clients of the permanency of the Fund,
showing the material good that each testamentary gift will bestow; pointing out the utmost safety of the investment in happiness for- others, and
finally preparing the necessary papers for the ultimate disposition of the
bequest.
·

531

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

For all these co-operative efforts in a field ever fertile, ever needful,
and ever appreciated, the Board is indeed grateful; and in extending its
thanks, urges a continuation .of the same splendid spirit of collaboration
for the future.

a building, never wholly completed, but one to which each generation may
devote his share of toil by hand and heart; that each generation, in erecting
its wings and roofs, may place, in common with those of the past, their
mark of care and consideration.
We believe, sincerely believe, that no mechanical basis is needed for
the erection of our building of charity. We ask for no government help;
we neither ask nor would accept it if offered. Ours is a unique benevolenceone predicated on the Masonic doctrine of unity, one grounded in the solid
soil of kindness and compassion.
We believe, sincerely believe, in the words of a fellow Craftsman who
recently penned these glowing words to the Board:
"Truly, I wonder if Masons anywhere need more than a request for the
aid of so fine a Masonic object."

530

Work of Grand Master and Officials
In line also for the considered praise of the entire Jurisdiction is the
outstanding work of Most Worshipful Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Master,
Masters and Secretaries· of Constituent Lodges, and of the many Endowment Fund Chairmen who performed ably and creditably during the past
year. The Grand Master, by virtue of his able proclamation designating
the month of May as Homes Endowment Month, by his qualified and
sincere addresses on the subject of the Permanent Endowment Fund, and
by his gifted and capable efforts throughout the entire year, earned the
lasting appreciation and commendation of every Craftsman in California.
To our Grand Master go the thanks of every Home guest and of those
who experienced the great privilege of working with him during the past
months.
Assisting greatly in the program were the Masters and Secretaries of
Constituent Lodges. Their efforts were constant and resultful. Secretaries,·
as in the past, were on call throughout the year passing out information,
pointing out the needs of the Homes, writing and personally contacting the
Brethren, and otherwise rendering signal service to the general program.
The Board cannot too highly praise the splendid efforts of the various
Lodge Secretaries, and can but say in deep appreciation that without them
the program would decline in direct proportion to their decline in cooperative effort.
Another group of sincere and capable workers were the Homes Endowment Chairmen appointed for work within their respective Lodges.
Of this sincere and able group the Board is especially proud. Their work
was of the highest order and contributed much to the completed program
for the year. Our sincerest compliment is the .request to incoming Masters
that their services, wherever possible, be again utilized by early re-appointment in order that they may again move forward in the interest of the
Jurisdiction's major charity.
In keeping with the Board's established policy of welcoming suggestions
as to methods and procedure in carrying out the program, a letter requesting possible proposals was forwarded to Inspectors and Masters in July.
Many and varied were the answers received. Many fine suggestions were
offered, and the Board will see to it that these plans, which have proved
successful in the writer's Lodge, will receive the widest possible circulation
for the benefit of others. A small percentage of those answering favored
a per capita tax to be levied for the Endowment Fund and some suggested
a program based on a quota drive; but to the Board's 'gratification, the
great majority of the answers contained approval of the present method.
It has been your Board's sincere belief throughout the trying years
behind us, and we still believe for the uncertain future ahead, that the
plan based on a purely volunteer structure is the one most desired, and,
in the long run, the one most likely to prove successful.
We believe, sincerely believe, that Masonry needs no force, no must;
that neither of these qualities, represented by quotas or taxes, can equal
the output of conscious Craftsmen motivated by the basic liberality of Freemasonry. We believe that the free and entirely voluntary gifts of those
whose hearts are attuned . to the rare privilege of giving will far transcend
those exacted by drkres and .taxations. We believe that an endowment is

The Board recommends the following resolution and moves its
adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of six thousand dollars be appropriated for
the use of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board.
Fraternally submitted,
FRANK

M. SMITH

WM. RHODES HERVEY
WILLIAM

P. FILMER

ERNEST G. BASHOR
ARTHUR

ROBERT B. GAYLORD
REYNOLD E. BLIGHT
Lours

c. DRAPEAU

EDMUND A. LocKETT

J. T. FRASER

CARL E. MILLER

ROLLIE W. MILLER

IRA D. WHEELER

L. SHELL

HENRY G. HILL

Jos.

! .

s. CRITES

HARRY F. WHITE

532

PROCEEDINGS .OF· THE

Report of Contributions to Endowment Fund

No.
1
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
.18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56

57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66

68
70
76

Merohership
Name
1936
1937
1938
1939
1941
1940
California......................- .... 616 $116.00 $ 67.00 $
$118.50 $
$ 15.00
34.00
29.50
19.00
19.50.
21.00
25.50
Western Star.........,........... 103
Tehama........................:........ 450
264.58 . 135.50
93.50
110.50
Benicia................- ............... 141
Tuolumne............................ 204
24.50
14.50
335.00
30.00
74.50
21.00
58.00
36.00
Corinthian................·-···-··· 281
33.00
66.46
81.50
53.00
26.00
San Jose.......... _:......- ......... 449
57.00
37.00
15.00
Yount. .................................• 267
Nevada...·-···········-·······- ····· 139
12.50
9.50
6.00
Temple..........- ..................... 108
5.00
24.50
2.00
Eureka..............................,.• 196
17.00
12.00
5.50
4.50
La Parfaite Union............. 145
8.50
3.00
Mountain Shade................ 37
30.00
106.75
San Joaquin.,..................... 562
195.33
32.50
138.58
101.04
66.00
Washington......................... 515
83.50
71.50
47.00
143.00 104.50
94.50
Hawaiian....................,........ 338 305.50 ·392.00 453.50
434.00 418.54 490.70
84.50
Occidental.......:..............- .• 780
62.50
11.00
124.50
110.50
12.09
Madison............................... 184
15.00
20.00
24.00
27.85
25.00
44.00
Mariposa...........,.....,............ 154
15.50
21.50
Georgetown...................,..... 49
7.50
15.00
El Dorado........................... 182
37.00
28.00
22.20
5.00
13.05
15.00
15.00
15.00
20.00
Trinity:..:......- ....:·-·-·····-··- 92
8.00
98.50
14.00
46.50
33.50
63.50
Golden Gate....--··-············ 667
Gold Hill..................- ........ 93
13.00
31.00
24.00
Ophir•................................... 38
557
35.50
124.50
171.50 152.52
San Diego...................... _
119.60
22.04
12.50
17.00
3.00
Howard.........·-········--- 193
7.50
18.5e
17.50
13.50 333.50
Santa Cruz......................... 321
78.50
32.50
55.00
71.50
64.50
34.50
Sacramento.......................... 530
17.00
21.50
21.00
39.05
38.50
Martinez...............·-···-- 217
213.00 252.17
152.00 188.50 130.75
Los Angeles................- ..... 689
Hiram................................... 47
87.50
15.00
Mount Moriah.................. 405
28.00
10.50
Crescent............................... 136
13.50
2.00
Texas................................... 39
32.00
59
50.00
50.00
50.00
51.00
Forbestown....·-··················
Illinoistown......................... 71
Suisun .................................. 134
Volcano......................•.•....... 31
Santa Rosa ........................• 370
62.67
25.00
42.60
141.00
Union................:.................. 516
47.45
53.50
26.17
113.00
Gravel Range ....·-············· 36
27.50
Plumas............................- .. 99
43.50
71.00
61.25
94.00
409.00
Live Oak......................__ 931
574.25 447.00
518.25 985.00 477.50
48.50
77.00
65.00
52.50
36.00
57.15
Natoma.........·-····--·-- 120
Amador ................................ 71
70.00
41.00
119.00
45.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
Forest...............·-···-··········· 46
47.00
92.68
65.05
Morning Star...............·-··· 428
87.14
Enterprise........................... 237
5.50
7.00
1.00
2.00
Bear Mountain...............- ·72

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MeroherNo.
Name
ship 1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
78 Calaveras............................. 80
79 Humboldt.................•....- ..- 336
5.00
12.00
4.75
25.30
6.60
80 Ione.... ~..:.-::.........;.... _;_,___ 72
5.00
81 Yolo.....,...•.._.........•.....,...... _.. 57
84 Vesper.....................·-·····-··· 167
25.00
16.00
87 Naval·--················-············ 609 370.00 213.00
77.50
f71.35
2.50
89 Rose's Bar................- ........ 35
91 North Star....................._
52
6.00
93 St. Helena...............·-····-·· 84 . 10.00
24.23
2.10
3.00
95 Henry Clay················-··-- 52
5.00
98 Hornitos.......................•...._ 87
25.00
99 Yosemite....,......................... 243
94.50
49.53
50.00
167.00
72.25
101 Clay....,.................•;._........... 65
99.00
49.50
37.00
33.00
103 Oroville................................ 243
47.50
10.00
3.00
104 Lexington............................ 186
50.00
70.00
65.00
70.00
70.00
106 Arcata..........................•·-···· 185
17.00
13.00
25.00
20.00
110 Pajaro,..;.....................,..- ... 232
10.00
21.00
Ill Chico.....................•.-~•...._ 324
50.00
112 Summit.......................·-··-- 41
4.00
'24.00
113 Eden....·-···-··········-····-···:- 202
57.50
26.53°
117 Concord...............·---····- 234
29.00
14.50
119 Clinton.....;............--····-·····
2.00
120 Fidelity······················-····-·- 568 142.50 125.50
10.00
30.00
122 Alamo..............__ _;___.... 137
37.50
35.00
12.50
15.00
15.50
123 Sotoyome:...............-····-·-- 150
124 Table Mountain................. ll9
126 Lafayette.,,........................... 181
127 Hermann.. .......................... 208
96.00
86.00
86.00
78,40
71.00
128 Visalia ........................:......... 301
28.00
74..2.5 23.00
129 Nicolaus................- ............ 93
11.00
131 Woodbridge......................_ 106
132 Sincerity......................., ...... 91
. 27.50
134 Vacaville............................• 150
5.00
135 Valley..........-·······•·-···--·- 69
136 Pacific..........•....·-····-····-- 646
47.50
40.00
10.00
139 Crockett.........·-·····•····-··-- 631
33.00
97.00
43.50
54.00 . 45.50
140 Curtis....................._____ 71
16.00
19.00
9.00
6.00
141 Grafton...·-····-··---··--- 64
23.50
15.00
15.50
9.50
143 Franklin............................... 97
96.00
41.00
13.00
30.00
30.00
144 Oriental............................... 431
95.00 220.00
40.00
180.00 122.00
145 Vitruvius..........................._ 92
3.00
5.00
146 Abell..........-···············-····-· 153
147 Eel River...............·-·········- 173
3.00
149 Lassen.................................. 160
22.50
7.50
150 Molino................................_ 117
11.50
53.00
31.00
43.00
2.00
156 Woodland..... _..................... 254
83.57
26.48
161 Keystone......................- ...... 24
164 Harmony...............•.....- ..... 13
166 Excelsior............................. 520 209.00
257:50
7.50
25.00 197.50
167 Alameda............................... 130 101.50
71.50
84.00
88.00
77.00
168 Redwood City............. _.__ 284
65.00
16.00
25.00
20.00
169 Mission..................._
723
137.00 137.00
134.50

533

1941
3.50
5.00
46.50
199.50
5.00
3.00

62.00
16.50
8.00
140.00
10.00
28.00
40.73
9.50
16.37
120.00
22.50
10.00
1.78
18.00
87.00
69.50
15.00

6.00
20.00
27.00
27.00
75.00
22.00
14.00
8.00
16.80
15.00
3.00
56.00
47.00

534

Memhership 1936

Name
Grove
........................... 105
Elk
173
31
174 Drytown...............................
175 Antioch ...·-····-····------- 145
178 Phoenix........·-·····-····-····-- 464
179 Mendocino....................·-··· 120
180 Petaluma.....................·-····- 269
181 Russian River...·-·············· 98
182 Arbuckle.............·-···········- 73
183 Clear Lake.........·-····-·- 38
184 Sierra Valley............·--·· 33
51
185 Oaiborne...............·-···········
186 Evening Star...................... 41
187 Keith....._.............................. 155
188 Oakland..,............·-···-·.-······ 787
190 Northern Light.................. 80
191 Marin................................... 443
192 Santa Barbara................... 230
193 Ferndale...............·-····-·- 135
194 Mount:tin View·····-·········- 177
195 Buckeye................................ 102
196 San Simeon........--·-·-·-· 94
198 Wilmington.........·-····-····- 282
199 Hartley................................. 159
200 Truckee.........·-················-·· 112
201 Silveyville............................ 133
202 Pentalpha............................. 568
203 Confidence........................... 27
204 Salinas...............·-····--·-·- 305
205 Olivet...·-····-····---···- 104
206 Stanislaus........·--··-···-···· 343
207 Anaheim.............................. 255
208 Rio Vista................·-········· 94
209 King David's........•............. 310
210 Friendship............................· 526
211 San Benito.......:.................. 134
212 s. San Francisco..... _........ l4S
214 San Buenaventura............ 262
215 Oak Grove.......................... 542
216 Doric...:............................., .. 495
217 Monterey...............·-··········· 136
218 Mosaic.................................. 126
219 Speranza Italiana.............. 372
220 Downey............................- .. 196
221 Inyo.........·-·························· 71
222 Roseville.............................. 272
224 Bakersfield..........._............. 420
225 Brooklyn.............................. 548
226 San Mateo.......................... 227
228 Athens.............'··············-··- 112
229 Solano..·-······-·········-·········· 420
230 North Butte........................ 117
46
231 · Covelo............................•.....
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROt:EEDINGS OF THE

1938

32.00

1937
125.50

9.00
91.50

8.00
77.08

34.00

7.00
3.50

18.00

10.00

5.00

1939
211.00
5.00
24.13
76.50

1940

30.00
5.50

42.00
7.50

1941
71.00
6.00
14.00
49.50
6.60
20.00
3.50

20.00

8.00
20.00

4.00
20.50
66.95

9.00
5.50
6.45

124.00
10.00
70.00

213.00
14.00
155.00
7.00

143.65
7.00
21.64
4.00
35.50

1.00
185.50
33.55
3.50
4.00

692.50

192.67

64.00
25.50

56.,02
25.50

3.50

7.08

77.50
49.00
7.00

52.00
75.50

63.00
100.00

67.50
55.00

137.50

33.00
159.50

8.25
198.50
5.00
9.50
33.50

107.00

211.00

46.00
29.50
221.50
60.00

37.00

39.50
41.00
44.50

8.50
165.65
107.00
64.00
5.00
26.00

1.00
20.00
41.50
107.25
124.50
50.00
89.00
31.25
102.50

50.00
30.50
130.85
26.50
15.50
99.00
55.50
26.50
95.00
10.00

194.00

48.00
1.00

8.50

102.00
227.00
33.50
106.00

70:00

161.60
5.00

64.00
150.50
13.50
30.00
143.00
58.50
85.00
26.50
105.00
30.00

26.50
147.00

38.50
140.50

44.00
11.00
72.00
69.00
54.00
4.50
47.50

34.50
131.00
39.00
108.50

12.50
36.70
128.50
117.50
42.50
7.00
121.30
155.00
51.00
2.00
20.50
142.50
114.50
49.00

40.09
132.50
155.50
94.50
10.00
63.50
43.00
153.00
10.00
9.50
200.00
58.00

66.00
134.22
91.80

90.64
44.65
81.85

88.00
20.00

128.50

No.
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275

277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
28Y
290
291
292
293

Name
Janesville.............................
Calistoga
....·-···················H
.
ope...·-······················--·
Surprise Valley...·-···········
Hills Ferry................___
Guadalupe...·-···········-Colusa...·--··--···-···-··-·Santa Ana...·-··········-···-·Magnolia...............·-····-·Eucalyptus...-......................
Alcatraz....................·-·····-·
Laurel:.................................Pomona.........·-··········--Fresno ....·-············-···········Alturas...............·-····-·······Adin ............................- ........
Landmark............................
Reading................................
Welcome................:.............
Lodi....·-·······························
Penrhyn..............:......·-·······
Evergreen............................
King Solomon's.................
Tuscan..........·-·····················
Lompoc................................
Hesperian................_..:.......
Orland.....................·-····-···
North East........................
Galt..................................-...
Durant..........·-·········-·····-·Olive Branch......... ~............
Snow Mountain.........·-····
Pasadena...............·-····--··Anchor........... _....................
Arroyo...........................·-···
Oakdale................................
Selma.......·-·············-···--So. California...·-····-·······Hanford...............................
Madera...................:..._........
Mount Shasta.....................
CalayomL............................
South West................·-···San Miguel...·-·············--·
Paso Robles ........................
Winnedumah............•..·-····
Maxwell........·-···················
Elsinore......................•.........
East Gate.........·-···-····-····
Santa Paula.........·-···········
Los Gatos...............·-·········
Orange Grove.........·-··-··

Memhership
1936
71
69
66
62
92
57
150
439
240
219
497
153
306
537
140
60
93
178
103
274
104
503
650
88
115
222
112
51
64
590
186
36
504
240
80
120
149
537
144
165
59
58
162
48
113
108
47
98
769
267
198
188

1937

1939
2.00
21.00
16.50

1940
25.50
16.00

1941
4.00
15.00
15.00

16.50
118.50

13.00
31.50

45.00
41.50

50.00
13.00

.50

132.65

25.00
5.00
31.25

21.00
25.00
10.00
8.00

62.50
25.00
18.36
69.50

94.35
25.00
30.00
34.00

12.00
45.00
27.00
9.05 ·

210.00
12.00
6.00
7.00

200.00

400.00
7.00
93.50

1938

12.50
23.50
6.00

34.00

44.00
64.50

61.00

75.50
7.00
17.50
98.00

45.00
40.00
19.00
9.00
365.00

8.00

17.00

7.00
52.50
21.00
44.00
108.50
25.00

23.50
156.50
52.00

12.75
1.00
1.00
200.00

2.50 ,
7.00
8.50
33.50
31.00

27.00
5.00

\

6.00
2.00
2.00
15.00

34.00
56.50

98.00

51.00
10.00
23.50

86.50

47.50
223.08

35.50
122.43

11.00
26.00
126.00

69.50

12.50
7.50
159.00
20.00
28.00

154.50
8.00

535.

25.00
40.00
7.00

10.00
5.00

36.07
307.50
12.50

19.94
207.00
15.00
9.00

18.50
133.00

10.00
73.75
10.00
8.00
7.00
52.61
130.00

66.00

29.00
189.47
5.50
38.50
141.00
46.00
22.50
14.00
25.00
57.75

-

14.00
102.00
15.00
16.20
81.00
30.00
10.00

31.00
243.50
21.00

62.00
25.00
14.00
38.00
250.72

42.50

154.00
248.90

17.25
27.00
828.00
56.00
5.00

52.00
29.50
176.00
72.00
31.76

25.00
65.70

25.00
67.00

26.00
20.00
62.44
201.39
9.00
52.73 .
26.17

41.50
17.50
10.00

10.00
23.00
64.80
57.00
6.00
16.12
10.70

45.00
89.00
107.15
12.25

~36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership
No.
Name
294 'Traver...........•.....................• 104
29S Mt. Jackson........................ I2I
296 Silver Gate......................... S63
2,<)7 Dunsmuir............................. I99
299 Liberty.................................. 224
300 Redlands .............................. 3SO
30I Ontario.............................•... 222
302 Santa Lucia ........................ 99
303 Porterville........................... 290
304 Reedley ................................ I4S
30S Azusa ....·-······················-···· I60
306 Ashlar.................................. I66
307 Santa Monica..................... 246
308 Monrovia.................- .......... 226
309 Delano.................................. IS2
310 Sisson................................... 67
3I2 Los Banos ........................... I2I
3I3 Tehachapi... ......................... I63
3I4 Teme~cal ............................. I32
3IS Norwalk ... ."..................·-····· I24
3I6 Sanger.................................. I6I
3I7 Fall brook............................. 5I
3I8 Emanuel..................•........... 7I
3I9 Hollenbeck...........•.........-- II67
320 South Gate.....................-. 648
32I Alisal. ...............................•. _ IOS
322 Alhambra............................ 392
323 Whittier............................-. 4SI
324 Corona....·-········-····-····-- S38
32S Consuelo.........•.........·-···--· I49
326 Needles................................ 210
327 Long Beach....:................... S07
328 Redondo ............................... I99
329 Vallee de France............... I3I
330 Kilauea ................................. I9I
33I Pacific Grove..................... IS8
332 San Pedro.......................... 48I
333 Atta.................•......•.........- .. 60
334 Covina..................·................ 2IS
33S West Gate...•...................-.. 797
336 Fruitvale.............................. 7S8
337 Carquinez............~ .•..:.•.·-···· IS7
338 San Jacinto.. ,................... _. 83
339 Fullerton............................ _ 375
34I Oxnard................................. 236
343 San Fernando.................... 23S
344 Starr King. ............... _........ S3S
34S Brentwood ........................... 87
346 Palo Alto............................ 4S3
347 McKinley............................ 293
348 San Bernardino................. 473
349 Sequoia ................................. 877

I936

I937

30.SO
67.SO

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I93S

I939

I940
2S.OO

I94I

44.SO
33.00

I43.SO
4S.OO
44.00

7S.OO
23.SO
2S.OO

83.00
70.50
79.00

34.SO

8.00
114.00
34.SO
89.00
I2.00
Il.00

46.00

I6.00

103S.SO

S3.SO

74.00

22.00

3S.SO

222.78

I38.00

118.00

I7.SO
I3.SO
48.SO
42.00
23.SO
7S.OO
I29.00
3\2.SO
5.00
47.00
3S.SO
I8.SO
S7.SO
90.43
S8.00

0

7.00
42.SO
I7.00
27.SO
28.SO
I34.7S
2.00
10.00
21.50
8.00
I37.00
203.2I
I2.00
98.00
468.33
36.00
I I4.00

I I3.00
I04.SO
34.00
8SO.SO
31.00
10.00
49.90

46.00

I76.00
I IS.SO
22.00

260.7S
46.SO
10.00

43.00

I08.00
78.00
68.00
46.SO
, 23.00
42.SO
Sl.00
I21.SO
100.00

S7.SO
6S.SO
78.00
I9.00
I22.00

8.SO
3S.OO
71.00
100.00
8.00
10.7S
IS.00
6S.SO
IS.43
40.SO

I7.2S
10.00
40.00
I7.00
Il.00
47.00
38.00
8S.OO
S.00
6.00
I4.00
22.00
I36.4S
I6.00
38.SO
SI7.79

8.00
331.00
61.SO
IS.00
S4.00
62S.OO
222.00
41.00
10.00
I42.00
23.SO
7.SO
4.00
69.SO
23.00
48.2S
102.00
II4.00

I9.SO
72.00
S88.2S
I80.SO
30.00

Il.00
IS.00
24.00
I2.00
38.00
I I2.00
5.00
20.98
2.00
S.00
2SO.OO
3I3.26
37.00
78.00
2I7.71
80.00

103.00
61.00
81.00
64S.OO
I2.7S
I98.00
24.2S

233.SO
28.00
48.SO
3.00

IS2.49
I8.SO
SS.SO

43.00
I8S.OO
I9.00
10.00
I3.00

39.00
81.00
26.00

63.SO
109.00

62.S4
82.SO

23.4S
I6.00
28.00
64.64
68.00
I9.00
88.I4
I2.88
I7.00
S.00
303.00
I09.S6
29.00
92.00
I 91.8I
Sl.00
20.00
I84.SO
43.75
62.00
63.00
S87.00
I4.SO
2I3.00
I7.SO
286.00
31.00
S.2S
73.SO
,91.02
I24.00
I6.SO
II.SS
8.7S
I20.00
208.00

No.
3SI
3S2
3S3
3S4
3SS
3S6
3S7
3S8
3S9
360
36I
362
363
36S
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
37S
376

377
378
379
380
38I
382
383
384
38S
387
388
389
390
39I
392
393
394
39S
396
397
399
400
40I
402
403
404
40S

Membership
Name
Palestine.............................. S27
Sunset............................-..... 386
Pinole...·-······--·-···-·--- I23
Presidio............•..·-····-··--· S42
Hollywood..................._._,_ 873
Mill Valley......................... 308
Buena Park........................ 118
Golden State..............•........ 828
Loyalton............................... 71
San Francisco..............•. __ 344
Fort Bragg..........·-···--·-· 92
Charity......................:•......... 107
Berkeley_......................._...... S04
Willits...........................·-··· I40
Las Palmas ......................... 6I2
South Pasadena................ 488
Unity................................._. 377
Ocean Park ........................ 336
Amity............................ _..... 462
le Progres de L'Oceanie .. 343
Gardena................................ I43
West Los Angeles .......• I77
Jewel ......................•,.,.,......., I4I
Richmond ............................. S77
Francis Drake................... I8S
82
Art~sia...................,.............
Mizpah................................. 368
Fillmore............................... IS6
Huntington Beach............. 240
Oceanside............................ I23
Highland Park .................. 434
Orosi ..................................... 80
El Centro............................ 306
Dinuba.......•.......................... I78
Coalinga.....................,......-. 268
Parnassus ......................•....• 646
Palos Verdes ...................... 466
Imperial.....:......................... 63
East Belt.....-·····-········-··- 62
West Lake...............•...... __ I 009
Balder..................•................ 477
University........................... S07
Turlock ............... ·-·············· I62
Apollo.................................• 362
Rising Light...........•.....•..... SIS
Fraternity...........,....•........... 373
Burlingame.......................... 382
Bay View.............•.............. 322
Brawley................................ I27
Yerba Buena...................... 42S
Glendora............................•. 96
Moneta...........•..................... 626

I936

I937

2S.OO

S7.0I
40.00
101.00
109.00
S6.00
6.00
I4S.SO
8.00
76.SO

100.SO
I21.00
S8.00
6.00
98.SO
91.00
S.00
S.00
I31.00
S8.00
3S.OO
229.00
20.SO
5S.SO
I2.00
I40.SO
IS.00
S.00
64.34
3S.OO
2.SO
66.00
40.00
100.00
61.00
42S.SO
82.SO
100.SO
Il.00
71.00
26.00
49.00
28.SO
S.00
80.00

I938
IS.00
I9.00
IS.00
64.SO
30.00
31.50
I l.00
I86.00

S37

I939

I940

I94I

S7.00
IS.00
71.00
26.00
33.00
23.00
I30.00
4.7S
6S.OO

I7.00
IS.00
S8.00
I2.00
49.7S
6.00
109.00
2.00
2&00

24.SO
IS.00
10.00
I3.00
6S.20
I4.00
111.2S
I2.00
60.SO

7.SO
61.SO

8.SO
6.00

4S.OO

I7S.SO
64.00
100.00
I77.SO
36.SO
8I2.00
10.00
46.SO
2S.OO
81.00
I27.00
10.00
I36.00
40.00
4S.OO
S.00
80.00
4.SO
4S.OO
29.00
I2.SO
69.00
46.00

S.00
73.00
44.00
9.00

I22.3S
72.SO
S7.00
I98.00

433.00
I4.00
I6S. I3

364.SO
28.00
IOS.00
6.00
IS7.00
I29.SO
8.2S
36.00
47.00
44.60

20.00
269.10
S.00
32.SO
92.00
76.SO
36.00
111.SO
I6.SO
2S.OO
2S.S3
I3.00
80.00

27S.SO
2.00
2S.OO
42.00
3.00
8.SO
46.00
20.00

81.00
IS.SO
4I l.6S
80.SO
44.SO
IS.00
2S.SO
7.SO
I7.00
I32.00
23.00
10.00
I70.8I
42.00

77.00
I9.00
38.SO
30.00
101.00
30.8S
I28.00
IS.SO
2S4.60
62.SO
62.00
I9.SO
24.00
42.SO
S.00
68.00
2.00
I27.S6 ·
22.00
111.00

S4.00

107.77
S7.SO
80.SO

268.00
2I9.00
66.00
79.I6
41.SO
40S.SO
90.00
62.00
7.00
43.SO
31.00
6.3S
I38.7S
S7.00
4S.7S

67.00
10.00
26.SO

1047.00
7.00
S3.SO

38.00
I90.00
S0.00
82.SO
I 1.00
272.00
80.SO
S0.00
10.00
I38.50

26.00
8S.I4
7.SO
I2.00
330.SS
S6.00
I7.00
S4.SO
I2S.10
I 10.QO
I S7.6I
4.00
70.00

43.0S
Sl.7S
8.00

s.so

I67.SO
44.00
82.SO
20.00
61.00
IS3.87
33.SO
80.SO
I2.00
IS7.42

538

No.

Membership

Name
406 Burbank....._.................·......• 252
407 La Mesa·-···················-····" 140
408 · Sierra Madre................- ...
86
409 Honolulu............................_ 223
410 Charter Rock. ...._.............. 394
411 ·Perris....- .:····················-····· 75
412 Calexico....·-·····················-· 125
413 W aucoba...............·-··········- 44
414 Arlington.........·-····-·-········ 290
415 Silver Trowel...·-····-····-·· 309
416 Lindsay···········-·········-····-·· 150
417 Clovis................·-·········-····· 220
418 Elysian................................. 422
419 Upland...............·-··-··- 139
420 Kerman............................_.. 44
421 Inglewood.....................:...... 277
422 Eagle Rock ................._...... 256
423 York. .....................-···········-· 164
424 Exeter.................................. 153
425 HoltviUe....._..............- ....... . 94
426 Midway.....................·-····-·· 365
427 Chino Valley................_____
57
428 San Dimas...............·-···- 95
429 Pittsburg...·-····-···-·--- 140
430 . McQoud...·-····-···:-····-····- 106
431 Alpha...·-····--· · - - - - 409
ancopa................•.._ _ 67
434 M"
433 Hammonton..........·-···--- 152
435 Fairmount...............·-····-·- 516
436 Claremont................___ 96
437 Lancaster...............·--·- 112
438 Acacia...........................: ...... . 67
439 Tyriai1........:....................·-··- 100
440 Standard.............................. 309
441 Coronado................•............ 174
442 Blackmer...........:................. 518
443 Schofield.....................·-····- 202
444 Carpinteria····-···············-·· 75
445 Wilshire................·-·········-· 526
446 La Puente.....................·-··- 71
447 Torrance...............·-··········- 203
448 Mount Diablo.....•.............. 161
449 Park..................................-. 442
450 Van Nuys .....................·-···· 254
451 Montebello.......................... 237
452 San Pasqual........................ 350
453 Bethlehem............................ 309
454 Crocker................................ 271
455 Golden West..'..................... 455
457 Ramona..............:................. 212
458 Henry S. Orme....·-···- ····· 540
459 Riverbank............................ 78

1936
11.00

1937
8.00

215.50
7.00
41.18

28.80
207.00
69.00
34.02

94.00
44.00
13.50
5.00
92.00
3.00
10.00
19.00
63.69
142.50
11.00
136.50
4.00
2.00
128.00
35.50
33.00
65.00
5.00
25.50
60.00

66.00
126.00
78.00
67.50
27.00
75.00
79.00
2.00
9.50
33.00
12.00
75.50

147.50
4.50
1.00
42.00
68.50
63.55
74.00
1.20
82.50
2.50
52.00

77.79
54.50
19.25
25.00
9.50
22.00
47.00
27.00
46.00
24.00
73.00
108.25
25.00
55.20
28.00
65.50
57.50
147.50
55.50
25.00
145.50
28.00
26.00
63~98

1938
13.95
80.00
72.00
247.00
13.00
25.00
112.00
19.00
15.00
147.50
2.00
84.50
22.18
82.50
12.50
2.50

1939
20.07
15.81

1940
144.00
25.00

238.00
73.00
31.00

244.00
60.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
115.50
30.00
9.00

8.00
104.00
73.00
8.00

126.00

60.50

4.50
40.25
30.50
33.51
138.50
41.50
28.45

1.05
56.00
51.50
47.94
166.00

16.00
122.00
97.00
42.00
18.50
225.00
7.00
65.00
40.00
28.42
142.00
45.60
90.50
25.00

133.25
41.85
25.00
44.00
5.00
69.00
17.00
8.50
21.00
54.00
24.00
33.50
38.00
33.50
8.50
21.50
29.00
60.00
17.50
46.50
72.50
9.00

539

GRAND LO DGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

120.73
26.00
33.50
32.00
40.65

139.00
29.00
56.65

46.00
34.00
17.00
4.50
6.00
175.25
66.10
91.56
46.00
16.00
57.00
7.00
7.50

27.00
31.00
29.00
25.50
10.00
105.50
75.00
38.15
147.00

16.00
4.00
93.50
10.00
47.00
43.00

19.10

50.00
15.50
17.00
66.50
68.38
85.50
3.00
29.50
23.00

1941
214.00
2.00
208.50
49.00

58.11
2.00
5.00
6.67
97.17
10.00
37.64
39.00
12.10
4.00
70.00
19.00
15.50
90.00
55.75
25.00
27.00
28.35
13.00
9.00
25.00
48.00
118.00
71.50
5.00
30.00
107.75
7.00

No.
Name
460 Mount Oso.........................
461 Argonaut.............................
462 Paul Revere....·-················
463 Morgan Hill......................
464 Alta Vista...........................
465 Center...................................
466 Libertas................................
467 Culver City......................_
468 Rockridge ................·- ·········
469 Yorba Linda.......................
470 Lincoln.~: ....._.......................
471 Delta.........·-·-·-····- · 472 Maui.........·-·-·-····-····-473 Blythe.,....:...-············---474 Victory....·-···············-·--475 America..................:.·-····-·
476 Coachella.... v ........ ......... ......
477 Temblor...............................
478 Thousand Oaks..................
479 Golden Rule................- .....
480 Fellowship.......................- ..
481 Mt. Davidson................•....
482 Clarence F. Smith............
483 Bell............................-·--···
484 Albert Pike...:......·-···--··485 Chowchilla..........- ..··-····-··
486 Caledonia...·-····-···-···-487 Vallejo..........-···············488 Patterson.............................
489 East Bay....:................·-····
490 Corcoran.................·---······
491 Woodstock...........................
492 Garvanza..·-··················-····
493 Atascadero.........:................
494 Acorn...........................·-·····
495 Lebanon...............·-···-····496 Riverdale .............................
497 Fremont................ ·-·······-····
498 Stockton...·-······················499 Capital City.......................:
500 Roosevelt. ............................
501 Westwood............................
502 Harbor.................................
503 Point.....................................
504 Seaside............................- ...
505 Silver Cord...............·- ·······
506 Mount Olive;......................
507 E l Segundo.....•...·-··········- ·
508 Joppa......................- ····-······
509 Benjamin Franklin ...........
510 Cupertino...·-················-··-·
511 Sunnyvale...............·-····-·-

Membership 1936
188
358
499
96
278
325
243
181
351
93
272
291
129
37
218
347
85
128
316
358
192
294
249
203
200
65
153
229
64
255

78.50
65.50

1937
19.50
73.50
30.50
5.00

31.00
44.50
38.50
20.50

12.00
131.23
18.00
6.00

58.00
14.00
263.00

83.50
29.66
255.00

51.50

35.50
10.00
90.00
27.00
31.00

41.00
36.00
25.00
19.50 ·
46.50
18.50
54.00
68.30
188.31
44.00

1940
5.00
27.00
43.11
24.71
26.33
40.45
56.50
136.50
4.50
15.00
253.00
83.46
268.00

1941
10.00 .
52.00
58.95
11.88
13.00
29.00
102.21
27.00
2.00
29.00
284.50
20.66
220.00

94.00
21.50
48.11
15.00

63.00
17.00
25.56
47.64

21.00
115.11

17.00
45.00
118.61
24.00

40.00
156.35
27.50

13.31
19.50
40.00
202.83
29.00

1938
38.00
17.50
25.05
138.50
18.00
76.00
18.00

1939
14.00
37.00
16.09
44.00
31.00
68.90
22.50

13.00
20.00

23.50
324.50

275.00

800.00

12.50

19.40
130.40
25.00

12.00
11.50
4.00

4.00

39.00

39.00
28.50

6.00
17.00

35.75
31.00

50.00
26.50

117.64
32.25

44.00

5.00

7.00

20.00

9.00

31.50

10.00

51.50

26.00
30.50
2.00

25.00
17.00
3.00

9.50
8.50
30.50
47.50
5.00

5.00
36.50
76.00
5.00

3.50

72
176
170
58
332
303

20.00
32.50
26.52

17.00
25.50
26.00

10.00
9.00

14.00

13.00
10.00
24.00

64
276
124
178
151
200
158
95
291
254
530
166
44
197
78
116

17.50
23.50
12.00
19.00
25.00
2.00
10.00
42.50

48.50
17.00
1057.58
35.00
5.00
19.50
20.00
18.35

7.00
24.20
26.80
52.00
854.00
40.00
5.00

28.00
884.80
61.00
5.00
23.00

59.00
12.00
2.00

56.68
16.00
555.30
35.00

58.50
17.50
995.90
18.00
4.00
10.25
8.75

540

No.
512
S13
S14
SIS
516
S17
Sl8
519
520
S21
S22
523
524
S2S
526
527
S28
S29
530
531
S32
S33
S34
S3S
536
537
538
539
540
S41
S42
543
S44
S4S
S46
547
548
549
5SO
5Sl
5S2
SS3
5S4
SS5
SS6
SS7
SS8
5S9
560
SA!
562
5oJ

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership 1936
Name
15.00
Palms................................... 182
11.00
Cahuenga............................. 302
ArJ?onne............................... 334
72.90
Vermont Square............... 3S3
Taft..................................- .. 167
61.00
Mount Vernon................... 208
19.00
La Jolla................- ..:.......... 128
SO.OD
Euclid............•.....................: 2SS
Ionic...:...........................•...... 288
Piedmont.....................·-····· 206
Sunrise.........·- ·················-·· 174
Bellflower.......................•.-. 148
15.00
Catalina Island................- 108
22.00
George Washington.......... 266
Bay City-....................... ~ .... 20S
40.00
Covenant.......................,...... 262
Beverly Hills...................... 223
Loyalty......•.......................... 241
72.25
Sun Garden....:................... 3SS
Alexandria.................:........ 117
Smyrna...·-···············-····-- 46
Azure...........................·-··- 187
11.SO
96
Forest · Hill...•.....·-····-···Alexander Hamilton......... 132
Seal Rock.........·-····-·---·· 129
21.00
Utopia....•....·-···-····-····--·· 474
32.SO
Ascot........·-··········-····-·- 226
29.00
Belvedere.....:..................•..- 205
Queen Beach...............·-·- 101
42.SO
Henry Morse Stephens... 280
41.SO
Lankershim.........·-····-····-· 254
15.SO
Signal....................•·-·-···· 2S9
2.00
Glendale........................•...-. 32S
6.00
Jonathan..................,...••...... 162
9.00
San Gabriel........- ..··········- 130
Arcadia.........·-···········-········ 106
14.00
Triangle...................... _....... 112
S.00
Justice....·-·············-············ 157
47.00
Seaport.......•.........·-············· 170
16.00
Lakeshore............................ 172
Semper Virens.:................. 129
Golden City................·-····· 79
S.00
Educator.............................. 184
White Pine........................ 84
20.00
Fairfax................·-············· 108
13.SO
Hermosa.............................. 136
Point Firmin..........- .......... 254
30.SO
Craftsman........................... 211
Plymouth................- ...:....... 177
11.SO
F':>st s~n Diego................. 254
64.00
Pyramid......................·-······ 182
50.00
::ivu•ll t'ark ..........- ............ 302

1937
2.00
18.00
69.33
23S.SO
84.SO
10.00
Sl.00
60.00
8.00
lS.00
29.00
37.00
17.SO
36.00
2S.OO
19.00
43.00
147.10
118.7S
23.00
20.SO
120.SO
41.SO
104.88
31.50
30.00
S.00
48.00
14.00
16.00
10.00
S.00
11.00
27.00
30.00
25.SO
lS.00

1938
23.20
10.00
48.42 '
SO.DO
107.60
S.00
5.00
95.30
10.00
8.00
S.00
JI.SO
2.00
71.50
100.00
so.so
24.SO
16.00
58.00
14.00
S9.20
36.SO
15.50
2.00

32.50
71.50

1940
40.96

7.SO

1941
20.00
9.00
10.00
90.36
49.44
66.SS
10.00
49.40

74.11
32.00
65.SO
21.00
99.00
49.00
7.SO
7S.OO
30.00
109.SO
6.2S
31.00
44.00
90.SO
S5.00

71.16
10.00
59.83
lS.00
101.80
32.00
20.00
49.00
16.00

27.00

18.SO

18.2S
S4.68
76.SO
si.oo
118.SO
27.00

7.00
6.00
132.SO

18.30
2.00
316.SO

8.00
20S.3S

104.13
36.00
21.00

76.64
24.00
68.00

105.00
34.7S
14.SO

33.SO
71.00
15.00
18.00
9.00
10.00
24.SO
18.00

10.10
87.00
19.00
10.00
7.00
9.70
80.10
17.00

2.00
19.SO
S.00
98.00
31.00

S.00
40.00
60.00

37.SO
10.0S
7.00
68.SO
17.00
21.00
18.00
8.00
28.00
S.00

19.50
S2.00
17.SO
14.00
66.SO
67.00
23.00

1939

10.00
21.50
lS.52
S.00
8.00
36.0S
17.SO
17.00
98.50

27.00
85.00
8.00
3.00
26.00
49.SO
28.00
7.00
27.SO
s.so
92:00
21.50
S9.S3
298.8S
37.25
2.00
10.00
32.00
143.SO

18.SO
15.00
39.00
19.27
6.50
63.00
45.10
10.00
18.00
12.00
74.50

2S.OO
27.00
27.02
33.SO
25.38
8.75
19.50
137.50

Membership 1936
No.
Name
53.SO
564 Foothill................- .............. 243
S6S West Adams......................• 204
38.00
S66 James A. Garfield............ 131
1.00
S67 Searchlight.........·-····-····-- 312
19.00
568 Park Boulevard.•.......·-····· 211
9.00
S69 Chateau Thierry...·--····-·- · 188
12.00
S70 Military Service...·-·····-··· 26S
S7.00
571 Francis K. Shattuck......... 174
43.00
S72 James Madison..............•._ 149
S7
S73 Hillcrest...·-······················36.00
574 S. W. ·Hackett................. 193
S75 Fort Crook.......:................. 69
576 El Cajon Valley•...·-·······- SS
11.00
S77 Sunnyside............................ 2SS
578 Progressive................- ....... 276
S79 Warren G. Harding......... 146
S80 Santa Maria....................... 49
26.00
581 Security....:.......,....~ ...........•• 181
582 Rialto...............·-·················· 86
583 Wasco...·--'···········'·············· 107
S84 Harding....................•......._. 158
S85 Manchester........................• 209
586 Garden Grove.....•....•....- - 92
S87 Valley Forge...............·-·- 187
S88 El Sereno.....................·-···· 144
589 Kauai.. ..·-····························· 98 382.00
S90 Compass.·-·············-··········-· 138
74 ·
S91 Escalon...............................•
S92 Tujunga...- ............•............. 118
S93 All States- .......................... 273
50.00
594 Service.....................••........... 299
S95 Alexander Graham Bell.. 166
596 Guard fan .................- ........... 24S
598 Pearl Harbor...............c••••• 196 lt7.SO
s~rno
599 .'Carmelita...............·-·····-···· 185
600 Lynwood.......·-···················· 113
601 Grizzl'J'-..:................- ..···-··• 90
25.00
602 Melrose................·-··········-· 121
19.SO
603 Dimond.·-·'······················-· 184
4.00
604 Jubilee-.·················-····,········ 140
51.SO
605 Glas sell Park....:•...•..........• 222
607 Sojourner............................ 88
42.6S
608 Granada....:..........·-············- 267
2S.SO
609 Provident...........·-·········-···· 13S
610 Elmhurst...·-····-····-··:·-·- .129
26.00
611 Canoga.........·-····-····--- 116
13.00
113
612 Temple City....•..•.•- ..616 Three ' Pillars.•...·-··-·-- · 168
614 'Larchmont.............._.;; ___ 182
61S Hemet.:.....•.·-····- - ·..•~......... . 7S
616 Seal Beach...............·-········ 65
617 Big Bear.................•.•••..••••- 43

1937
24.00
29.SO
35.00
16.00

1938
S.00

541

1939
11.50
40.SO

23.00
12.00
33.SO

13.00
lS.50

16.SO
40.00

1940
20.SO
2.00
46.00
77.0.0

1941
12.SO

44.25

9.SO
10.00
S4.00

6.SS

S.00
Sl.00

SO.OD
19.00

42.00
21.SO

50.00
2S.SO

S2.00

73.7S
8.2S
2.00
S4.00
45.00
10.67
28.00
S3.00
12.50

2.00
41.06
48.00
10.00
53.SO
13.00
5.00

36.00

20.00
lS.00

45.SO

67.00
23.14
2S.Sl

22.00
21.00
10.00
33.00 .

47.00
63.56

13.00
41.50
S.60
lS.00

28.SO
134.SO
5.30
12.00

7.40
36.SO
S9.S8
2s.oo
105.14
31.SO
66.50
6.64
16.00

322.00
12.00
S6.00
34.00
96.00
110.00
49.SO
26.00
70.00

376.00
8.00
27.00
29.00
95.00
11.00
90.00
10.00
IS2.00

294.00

2S9.SO

243.SO

19.00
38.66
46.00
109.00
116.00
22.00
179.1S
31.00

40.12
92.00

8.00
6.00
25.SO
4.SO
11.00
24.00
2S.OO
39.SO
37.00
12.SO
105.SO
17.00
10.SO .

21.00
37.4S
43.75
140.00
108.00
23.00
170.00
7tfoo
4.00
24.00

21.00
33.00
77.82
118.00
121.60
26.00
270.40
79.61
17.00

24.00
16.SO

n.oo

17.00
16.00
62.25
48.00
6.00
12.00
58.00
18.00
30.75
170.00

31.50
23.00
10.00

1

S.00
20.81
70.SO
16.00
61.82
8.00
32.00
7.00
.s2.ss

68.SO
28.80
24.00
46.00
30.00
23.6S
20.SO
42.0S
61.50
43.S6
l<l.00
43.SO
102.88
64.SO
36.00
29.20 •
3S.OO
61.50
21.50
20.00
13.00 .
21.33

2.00 __

........ ..............
~

15.00 .

15.QQ,..

:,,15.0Q;'

:Js:so- ll'

·5.oo
9.00

542

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemberNo.
Name
ship
618 Southland....._...............•-._ 174
612 Neptune......................__ __ 124
620 Point Loma.........·- ····-····- 101
621 The Gardens ....................... 199
622 Atwater................................ 1S4
623 Menorah..........· - - · - - - 307
624 Fortitude...·-··········-····--- 127
310
62S Angeles Mesa..............626 Chula Vista........·-·····-····- 99
627 Lamanda Park................- . 109
628 Truth................................. 9S
99
629 Fairview................- ..........630 Ingleside............................_ 102
631 Benevolence...............·-·····- 182
632 Normal Heights................. 179
633 Poinsettia............................ 27S
634 Victorville........................... 102
63S Riverside.............................. 169
636 John Marshall.................... 102
637 Palisades.............................. 172
633 Indian Rock..............:........ 108
· 639 Composite............................ 136
640 Veritas................................. 76
641 James A. Foshay............... 88
642 La Cumbre.......................- 77
643 Alta Loma.......................... 23S
644 Lomita...................:........._... 91
64S A. F. E. Irwin................... 142
646 Metropolitan......;................ 72
647 Hawthorne.......................... S2
648 Damascus............................ 201
649 Florence............................... 181
6SO La Brea..............•..'··--····-· 190
6S 1 Menlo Park........................ 72
lOS
6S2 Crescenta Valley....6SJ 'Fontana...................·-····-·· 84
6S4 Jordan .........·- ··········-····-·- 130
6SS Monte Vista..................- ..- 230
6S6 Citrol.................................... llS
6S7 John D. Spreckels...·-···- 278
6S8 Livingston........................... 63
6S9 ' La Habra~---~---···················· 100
660 Baldwin Park.................... S9
661 Malta......................;.-·········- 103
662 Henry Knox •..................... 210
663 o;aL..'........,..................·- ··· 46
74
664 Oasis....... ~ ............ ...............
66S Kaweah.................:.............. S6
666 Reseda·-········-······················ 7S
667 Meridian................----- 168
668:· San Gorgonio•---- 9Z
(>69 John P. Jarman............-- 102

1936
SS.00
2.00
47.00

1937
4S.OO
3S.OO
S8.00

1938
SS.SO
40.SO
40.00

1939
S0.00
4S.OO
42.00

18.00
71.00
60.SO
34.00

29.00
147.SO
69.SO
104.SO
7.00

21.00
186.00
S9.SO
42.00

14.SO
112.SO
70.7S
S.00
17.00
S0.00 .
lS.00
7S.OO
8.00
S4.16

69.00

49.00
1.00
45.00
100.00

S3.SO
9.00
64.10
42.00
34.00
48.00
30.00
61.00
8.00
200.SO

23.00
3.00
101.72
34.00
47.00
11.00
2S.OO
91.40
11.0S
88.SO

17.00
21.00
26.00
31.00

66.SO

26.00
21.00
16.00

32.00
38.00
48.SO
67.00
21.27
S3.00
32.SO
10.SO

1939
27.00

1940
72.SO

1941
70.00

7.00

12.00
14.SO
14.00
48.00

9.00

19.00

23.00

24.00

S.00
22.7S
2.SO

20.00
32.SO
6.00
62.00
61.00

20.00
48.73
2S.OO
37.50

4S.03
40.SO
2.00
42.SO
47.07

S.00

5.00

39.00

44.8S
2S.OO
4.00

29.SO

Total membership ............ 12S,843
Total number of L odges ............582
Total contributors.... 1936, 3,000 ; 1937, 5,800 ; 1938, 4,600; 1939, 6,500;
1940, 6,3S7 ; 1941, 6,623.
Per cent 1936 2.4 %
1939 5.20%
1937 4.S %
1940 S.02%
1938 3.61%
1941 S.26%
Report .of Auditors

27.00
19.2S
104.00 .
36.00

We have audited the accounts and records of the Per manent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1941, and present herewith the following statements:

24.00
13.00
34.S8

24.72
22.SO
43.00
12.SO
. S2.SO

21.00
2S.6S
S0.00
16.00
S4.SO

29.0S
106.00
9.00
12.00
. 69.50

4.00
3S.OO
26.00
69.00
13.02

4.00
27.00
3.00
48.SO
4S.07

9.60
S4.26
3S.SO
41.00
20.SO

8.00:
2S.OO
9.41
41.SO
.17.00

S0.00
14.00
279.00

S0.00
14.SO
261.40

S0.00
28.30
2SO.OO

77.00
46S.25

lS.SO ... ..
19.00 ... 43.60
46.2S . 42.8S
6.00
7.30

41.00
20.7S
26.00

20.00
6S.90
18.00

. S.00
17.00
10.00
22.00

193&
16.00

29.00
23.00
39.00
22.7S

41.00
12.SO

11.00
4.00
66.00
14.00

1937
30.SO

To the Endo~nt Fund Committee, Masonic Hemes of California:

S6.00
18.2S
S8.00
34.00

12.00
42.00

so

1936

2S.OO

48.06

11.00

32.00
11.00
12S.4S
14.00
3S.OO

No.
Name
670 Greenleaf................._...........
671 San Clemente...............- ...
672 Laguna Beach.........:......- ..
673 Far WesL............·-····-····
674 Los Cerritos..........- ...........
67S Modesto..........-········--676 Willow Glen..........-····-····
677 Liberal Arts...:.....·-···········
678 Altadena..............................
679 Canby's Cross....- ..............
680 Carmel.................................
681 Dos Palos........................
682 Bar stow ...........................
U. D. Trona ...........................

20.00

lS.00

7.00

102.2S
S.00
36.00
S.00
79.87
S0.00
174.00
8.00
19.00
29.00
188.8S
3.00
21.00

1941
1S6.00
43.4S
S7.SO
lS.00
28.10
309.SO
94.00
39i.75
18.00
104.00
11.00
69.47
S3.00
104.98
100.00
173.68

S43

lS.00
20.00
6S.62
4S.OO
7.SO
73.SO
26.00

13.00

22.42
24.00

lll.7S
26.00
9.00
44.SO
179.11
21.09

1940
SS.00
69.00
37.00
27.20
19.37
124.SO
63.00
300.00

Membership
168
30
S7
136
83
146
89
72
174
46

9.2S

16.SO
19.00
4S.OO
7.00
14.S8

Exhibit A : Statemept of cash receipts and disbursem ents (other than
Luckenbach Fund, Exhibit C) for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1941.
Exhibit B: Summary statement of Endowment Fund assets, as at July
31, 1941.
Schedule B- 1 : List of regular Endowment Fund securities on hand
acquired prior to July 31, 1940.
•
'
Schedule B-2: List of regular Endowment Fund securities on. hand
additions to fund fiscal year 1940-41.
'
Schedule B-3 : St atement of securities redeemed and sold.
Exhibit C : Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund as at July
31, 1941.
Exhibit D: Statements of Endowment Fund in·c ome and capital accounts.
Securities (Schedules B-1 and B-2):
All of the corporation stocks and the irrigation district bo.nds were
received by donation or bequest; other bonds so received are designated
by the letter "D." All donated securities are listed at market value at the
time of donation, with the exception that where the value is uncertain because of its being an unlisted or a closely held security, then in that case
a nominal value of $1.00. is listed for the purpose of record. Insurance policies are listed at a nominal value of. $1.00 for conservative purposes.

18.7S
4S.OO
21.1 1
S3.2S

544

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bonds purchased are recorded at cost. As most bonds carry a heavy
premium, an amortization schedule has been put into effect in order to reduce
to a minimum any loss to the Endowment Fund when the bonds are redeemed.
Increase of fund:
The total assets of the Permanent Endowment Fund, which includes the
regular fund and the Luckenbach Fund, show the following increase for the
fiscal year:
Amount of fund July 31, 1941 .........................•..:............... $1,317,715.99
Amount of fund July 31, 1940 ............................................ 1,228,584.89
Increase during the current year ...............:................$

89,131.10

Accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests ......•.......:....c...........•......... c.:.,J
Securities by donations and bequests ..............................
Net profit on securities sold and redeemed ..................... .

63,827.91
7,302.00
18,001.19

Net increase, as above ................ .'........ :.::.:......, ...,.:··-~.•'. .$

89,131.10

The Endowment Fund income earned during the fiscal year and transferred to the Masonic Homes General Fund amounted to $42,047.76.
Other Endowment Funds :
The following funds, which will evt:ntually become part of the Endowment Fund, ·are recorded in the Masonic Homes General Fund records in
order .to simplify the payments on the annuity contracts which each fund
carries. A full report on these funds is included in our report on the Masonic Homes General Fund.
Charles N. Flint Trust
Charles N. Flint Annuity
Charles N. Flint Annuity
George H. and Harriet C. Wadleigh Annuity
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity
Certificate:
We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements set forth the condition of .~he Permanent Endowment Fund as at July 31, 1941, with the
exception as to the stated or book value of the securities on hand, and that
a proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL,. BURROWS & WEBB,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

Secretary's Report
Exhibit A
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements (not Including the
Luckenbach Fund Endowment Account (Exhibit C) for
the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
Cash iii banks August 1, 1940... :..:........ :... :............................................ $ 18,179.92:

545

Receipts :
Donations from lodges ,.........,. ........ ,; .........$ 33,227.19
Donations from individuals ................... .
1,052.10
Bequests ........................................................ . 28,548.62
Masonic Homes of California ................. .
1,000.00

$ 63,827.91

Securities redeemed and sold:
(Schedule B-3)
Bonds .................................................... $284,831.15
Building and loan associations ......
485.41
J:rypts ..................................................
472.15

285,788.71

From Masonic Homes for annual amortization of
bond premium ....................•.......................................

5,303.56

Total receipts ...................................................................................... 354,920.18
Total to account for ....................... :..... :....... :.:.... ~ ..........:........$373,100.10
Disbursements:
Bonds purchased ......................... ,...............: ......................$322,2,15.15
Prior years amortization of premium on bonds sold
at a profit returned to Masonic Homes................
2,259.93
Total disbursements .................................................................. 324,475.08
Cash in banks July 31, 1941:
Anglo California National Bank, savings account $47,409.51
The San Francisco Bank, savings account..........
1,215.51

$ 48,625.02

Exhibit B
Summary Statement of Endowment Fund Assets as at July 31, 1941
Regular fund :
Cash in savings accounts:
Anglo California National Bank ...... .'..,........$
The San Francisco Bank ................................. .

47,409.51
1,215.51

Securities (at book value):
(Refer to Schedules B-1 and B-2 for detailed list of securities.)
Bonds ...... ,, ...... ,, ....... ,.. ,...:.........•. ~······~·•-'·············--$1, 194,48~.79
Stocks .............................. ,.......................................
19,182.75
Miscellaneous ······················----···············:········--····
6,219.97
Total book value.............................:.. :....... $1,219,885.Sl
Deduct reserve for amortization of bond ·
premiums ....................................................

' 11,615.19

$

48,625.02

546

PROCEEDINGS OF ':HE

Net book values of securities ................................................ 1,208,270.32
Total regular Endowment Fund cash and securities ......................$1,256,895.34
Add special fund, John and Lena Luckenbach (reference
Schedule C) ................................. :..................................................
60,820.65
Grand total Endowment Fund July 31, 1941....................................$1,317,715.99
Notes : (a) Funds received and held in suspense pending final fulfillment
of annuity contracts are not included in the above totals. Refer
to comments for further information.
(b) Refer to Schedules B-2 and B-3 for acquisition and disposition of securities during the year.
Schedule B-1
List of Regular Endowment Fund Securities July 31, 1941
Bonds (Acquired prior to July 31, 1940):
Book
("D" indicates bonds received by donations.)
Value
$25,000 Alabama, State of, refunding 3}4%, 1964.......................... $ 27,957.50
1.00
2,000 Alexandria Hotel Realty 'Corp. 6Y,%, 1947 ..................*D
5,000 Arcata, City of, Waterworks 4%, 1960-1 ............................ 5,622.74
1,000 Beverly Hills, City Hall 4Y, %, 1968 .................................. 1,269.37
2,000 Beverly Hills, City Hall 5%, 1968 ...................................... 2,731.12
7,000 Beverly Hills, School District 5%, 1958-67 .,.................... 9,244.46
5,000 Bishop Union High School District 5%, 1949.:................ 5,159.35
5,000 Burbank High School District 5%, 1950 .......................... 5,749.05
3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp.; 20 year income, SY, %,
232.50
1952 .................................................................................... *D
5,000 Chicago Board of Education 4}4%, 1954 ......................... . 6,143.20
5,000 East Bay Municipal District 5%, 1965-70-1-4................. . 7,142.00
15,000 El Segundo High School District 5%, 1952-53 ............... . 16,015.08
18,000 Eureka, City of, Water 4%, 1961-2-4-7 .............................. 22,012.75
5,000 Fort Bragg Union High School District 4Y,%, 1951..... . 5,668.85
5,000 Glendale, City of, Sewer 5%, 1962,.................... ,..........:....... 6,449.95
40,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District 4}4%, 195961-65-67-71 ·······'···································································· 47,686.67
46,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District 3}4%, 195967-69-70-71 ............................................................................ 53,462.60
14,000 Grant Union High School District 2%, 1952-3................ 12,654.56
2,000 Huntington Park High School District 5%, 1955 ........... . 2,540.04
1,000 Huntington Park School District 5%, 1956........................ 1,288.43
1,500.00
1,500 Jonathan Club Liquidating Debenture, 1952 ................*D
15,000 ·Knoxville, City of, Water 4Y,%, 1961 .......... ,................... 16,142.19
3,000 Long Beach, City of, Park 4%, 1961-65 ............................ 3,303.93
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant 5%, 1961.. ................ 11,112.50
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Harbor 4}4%, 1960 ........................ 5,471.55
27,000 Los Angeles, City High School District 5%, 1951-5960-63 ························································································ 29,976.56
22,000 Los Angeles, City School District 5%, 1963-64 .............. 25,639.95
5,000 Los Angeles,. City of, Sewer 4}4%, 1965 ............................ 5,512.05
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water 4Y,%, 1965 ............................ 10,254.00
62,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California
4%, 1957-58-65-83 ................................................................ 68,257.89

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Metropolitan Water District of Southern California
4y,f %, 1975 ············································································
25,000 New York City Rapid Transit 3~ %. 1954........................
16,000 New York City Rapid Transit 4%, 1977 ..........................
9,000 New York City, various 4%, 1977 ......................................
30,000 · New York Park, Westchester County 4%, 1975 ..............
10,000 Oakland, City of, Harbor 4Y,%, 1966 ................................
15,000 Oakland, City of, Sewer 4Y,%, 1961-2-3-4-5......................
15,000 Oxnard Harbor District 3Y, %, 1963-5 ..............................
3,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., first and refunding mortgage 6%, 1941 ..............'. •. .:, .........•......,...•,•..........•........•._D
5,000 Pasadena, City of, Water 4}4%, 1965 ................................
5,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water 4Y, %, 1963 ......... .
1,000 Paso Robles Union High School 5%, 1963 ......................
13,000 Pawtucket, R. I., High School 3%, 1957............................
2,000 Pawtucket, R. I., Highway 3%, 1957 ................................
10,000 Pawtucket, R. I., Water Plant 3%, 1957........................... .
2,000 Richmond, City-of, Improvements 5% , 1949-52 ................
2,000 Sacramento, City of, Filtration Plant 4Y,%, 1966 ......... .
5,000 San Buenaventura, City of, Water 5% , 1956-7-8-9-60... .
5,000 San Diego, El Capitan Dam 5%, 19&4.. :.......................... .
San Francisco, City and County:
15,000
City Hall 5%, 1956-57-60 ................................................... .
40,000
Hetch Hetchy 5}4%, 1954-55 ..........................................
5,000
Hetch Hetchy 5%, 1966 ......................................................
40,000
Hetch Hetchy 4Y, %, 1967-71-72-73-76 ..........................
25,000
Spring Valley 4Y, %, 1966-67-69-70 ................................
2,687.50 Santa Barbara, City of, Streets 4Y, %, 1942-3-4 .............
1,000 Santa Barbara, City of, Water Works Tunnel 4Y,%,
1948 ··························································································
3,000 Santa Monica School District 5%, 1960 ............................
25,000 Seattle, City of, Light and Power 3Y, %, 1952-53 ............
5,000 Stockton, City of, Harbor 4Y,%, due 1959........................
100 University Masonic Temple Association, second mortgage (registered) 6%, 1949 ................................................
1,250 Upland, City of, improvements, 6%, 1942-1 .................. D
30,000 Vernon, City of, Light and Power 4}4%, 1961-3 ............
Irrigation bonds (donated):
1,000 Imperial Irrigation District, first refunding 4Y, %, 1983
500 Terra Bella Irrigation District, first refunding 4%, 1979

547

20,000

22,601.66
25,343.(5
19,040.00
10,710.00
38,153.10
13,456.20
19,765.96
16,338.73
3,070.00
6,687.85
6,193.11
1,294.25
13,546.78
2,084.12
10,420.60
2,000.00
2,613.40
6,385.53
6,832.40
15,000.00
42,847.49
6,898.75
53,303.65
33,301.50
2,687.50
1,000.00
3,783.52
24,937.50
5,307.80
100.00
1,250.00
37,608.65
1,000.00
500.00

Total bonds (acquired prior to July 31 , 1940) ..................$872,265.64
(*) Note: Not paying interest.
Stocks (donated):
Book
Shares
Value
Altaden~ Masonic Temple Building Association .: ..........$
50.00
5
American Telephone and Telegraph Co . ... :...................... 1,066.00
10
Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association ........................ *
8.00
8
2
1.00
Bancamerica Blair Corporation ..........................................*
193.50
43
California. Ice & Cold Storage Co., Class A .....................•*
California Ice & Cold Storage Co., Class B ..................•._*
21
10.50
Central J;:'ublic Service Co., preferred ..............................*
825.00
15
12.50
60
Centra'I Public Utilities Corporation, common ................ *
Central Public Utilities Corporation, preferred ..............*
40.00
20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

S48

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Book

Shares
JOO

Consolidated Rock Products, preferred .......................... •
Eastern Public Service Corporation, Class A, common •
First National Trust & Savings Bank of San Diego,
preferred ..................................................................................
3
Geyser Development Co., preferred ..................................•
10
Healdsburg General Hospital, Inc., prefer.r ed ..................•
12!h
Home Service ·corporation, Class B, common ..............•
59
McCormack Lumber Co., Chas. R., common .................. •
4/ 10 M. Nirenberg Sons, Inc., Class A ····································-•
6/ 10 M. Nirenberg Sons, Inc., Class B ...................................... •
lS
Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., preferred ..............................
16 !h
Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., common ..................................
316
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% preferred ........................
50
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., ·SY.% pteferred..................... .
10
Peoples Light and Power Corporation, preferred .......... •
10
Schulte United Sc to $1 Stores, Inc., preferred .........:...... •
25
Skaggs Springs Oil and Gas Company ............................•
562
Sotoyomi Vineyards ................................................................ •
' 4
Southern California .Edison Co. SY,% preferred ..............
4
Southern California Edison Co., common ..........................
10
Splitdorf Electrical Company .............................................. •
14
Standard Public Service Co., preferred ............................•
I
Sun Drug Company, preferred ............................................. •
1
Taft Masonic Temple Association ....................................•
2
United Stores Corporation, common .................................. •
10
Universal Chain Theaters, common ..................................•

5
20

Real property (assessed value):
Arlington lot, San Diego County ..................?.........$ 90.00
Lot No. 262, Los Angeles County ..........................
SS.00
Improvement lot 4B, Healdsburg ..,.....:..................... 3500.00

Value
1.00
1.00

250.00
lS.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
1.00
1.00
431.2S
1.00
7,614.00
l,OS0.00
1.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
100.00
. 80.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
100.00
1.00
1.00

Total miscellaneous securities, etc. ,..... :.............,......... ,: .......... $
(Acquired prior to July 31, 1940.)

Schedule B-2
Additions to Fund 1940-41
Bonds purchased :
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Fire Protection 40 %, 1962 ............ $ 1,245.88
.1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Incinerator 4Y, 'fo, 1963 ..............
l ,25S.90
2,000 Los Angeles, City School District 5%, 1961.................. 2,635.78
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water 4~%. 1968..........................
1,246.85
S,000 Redondo Beach, City of, 4%, 1966 ..................................
S,950.66
5,000 Santa Cruz, City of, Water 5%, 1962-3............................ 6,987.68
10,000 .Santa Monica, City of, Breakwater S%, 1970.................. 14,890.69
S,000 Santa Monica, City of, Cloverfield 4% %, 1963................
6,122.96
5,000 Santa Monica High School District 5%, 19S9 .............. 6,621.39
2,000 Santa Monica School District S%, 1961 .......................... 2,711.11
30,000 U. S. Treasury Defense Bonds, Series G, 2Y, %, 19S3.... 30,000.00
238,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds 2Y, %, 1954-58 ··········-·················· 242,S46.25

$

i

Total bonds purchased ....... ~·-· ···· ········· ·· ·· :· ··· ··· ·················· ·· ······ ......$322,21S.1S
Donations and bequests :
Frorri the estate of Julius E . Fussle :
76/ 100 shares Gardena Liquidating Corporation, common ....$
1.00
From the estate of Minnie Madden:
166 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 6% preferred ......................................................,. .... ,.............$S,S61 .00
46 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co. S0% preferred ...................................\ .....:.........•....;............... 1,380.00
6,941.00

Miscellaneous Securities, Etc.

Miscellaneous I terns:
·Receiver's certificate on U. S. National Bank, balance $43.11 *..
'Certificate of deposit $8400, Summer Lake Irrigation Dist .........
Assignment of claim Columbian Building ' and Loan Assn .........
Assignment of claim Pacific Coast Building and Loan Assn.• ....
'Certificate of deposit Scioto Buiiding and Loan Assn. ·'·'····' ···'·

6,219.97

(*) Note : Nominal values only for purposes of recording.

(*) Note : No dividends received.

Insurance Policies:•
$ 500 New York Life Insurance Co . .........................,.:...$ 1.00
·2SO Mutual Life Insurance Co ................ :.................. 1.00
.1000
State Life Insurance Co. ................................... ,.... 1.00
.JOOO
Independent Order of Fo~es.ters .......................... 1.00

3,645.00

Total securities acquired prior to July 31, 1940................................$1,Sl0,289.78

Total stocks (acquired prior to July 31, 1940) .............. :....... $. ll,882.7S

· Fraternal Death Certificates :•
Certificates
3 Ahmes Temple Shrine Association at $100 par,...$ 3.00
1 Ahmes Temple Shrine Association at $ SO per.... 1.00
10 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co. at $100 par ................ 10.00
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund ................................................ 1.00
1 Masonic Temple Assn. of Sacramento at $100 par 1.00
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2 at $20 par.... 1.00 $

549

Book

Value

I

17.00

4.00

1.00
250.00
2,076.97
1.00
225.00

From the estate of Jennie Downing:
17 shares Pennsylvania Railroad Co. common..........................

357.00

From Alice K. Geballe :
10 shares Masonic Temple Association of California capital
stock ... .'..........................................................................................

1.00

From John C. Luch~ :
$1000 The Madison, Inc., cumulative income
bo'.J.d, 1957 .,., ................................................. - .....$1.op
$1000 New York Athletic Club, second mortgage
bond, 1938 ............................................................ 1.00

2.00

Total donations and bequests ........ ,............ ,,.;..._........•....•....•..•........ $ 7,302.00

l

550

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total acquisitions for the year .......'................................. ,.....................$329,517.15
Total securities on hand July 31, 1941 .............................................. $1,219,885.51
Schedule B-3
Statement of Securities Redeemed and Sold During the Fiscal
Year Ended July 31, 1941
Regular Endowment Fund:
Net
Bonds
Proceeds
$ .1,000 Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation District, liquidation $
309.67
10,000 Beverly Hills water ............................................................... . 11,981.70
25,000 California, State of, Sacramento buildings ...................... 33,127.70
50,000 California, State of, San Francisco harbor ..................... . 58,201.39
10,000 California, State of, highways ........................................... . 12,562.49
5,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District, water ................... . 5,951.18
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, electric plant ................................. . 6,337.35
10,000 Sacramento Municipal Utility District ........................... : 11,041.97
10,000 San Francisco, City and County of, sewer ..................... . 11,730.79
1,075 Santa Barbara, City of, street, called ............................... .
1,074.78
10,000 Stockton, City of, harbor ................................................... . 12,445.77
9,000 Temescal, water, called ....................................................... . 9,178.02
100,000 U. S. A. Treasury ................................................................. . il0,888.34
Building and Loan liquidating dividends:
Pacific Coast Building and Loan Association ............................. .
Scioto Building and Loan Association ......................................
Sale of crypts .................................. "'························································

240.41
245.00
472.15

Total.. ............................................................. :.............................. $285,788. 71
Luckenbach Fund:
$5,000 California Water Service Co. bonds sold to the
Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund ..............................$5,142.31
Exhibit C
Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund July 31, 1941
Special Fund:
Balance in fund July 31, 1941............ ,...........•... c••••••.••.••.•••••••••••••••••••••••• $ 60,820.65
(No change during the year.)
Composition of Fund
Cash in savings account:
Anglo California. National Bank ....... :.............. .'.............$
Securities at cost:
$ 3,000 Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District, 3%%, 1971... ... $ 3,423.78
1,000 Grant Union High School District 2%, 1955 .................... ,...
880.13
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, water
water 4%, .1971 ......................
1,167.58
8,000 Metropolitan Water District
of Southern California 4%
1965-86 ······································
9,060.95

New York City, various 4%%,
1960 ············································
9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co.
General Lien 3%, 2047 ........
10,000 Southern Pacific Railroad Co.
first and refunding mortgage 4%, 1955 ........................
100 shares West Penn Electric Co.
Class A stock ........................

551

15,000

17,175.00
7,290.00
10,650.00
10,480.85

Total cost ,........................... $ 60,128.29
Deduct reserve for amortization of
bond premiums ............................... .

540.50

Total securities ......................................................

59,587.79

Total Luckenbach Fund cash and securities, as above ...................... $ 60,820.65

Exhibit D
Statement of Endowment Income and Capital Accounts for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1941
Income account:
Income received from Endowment Fund securities:
From regular fund securities ..................................$ 42,632.52
From Luckenbach Fund securities ...................... 2,613.88 $ 45,246.40
Deduct:
Annual amortization of bond premiums restored to Endowment Capital:
Regular fund securities :.......... :............... ,................$ 5,303.56
Luckenbach Fund ................................................... .
155.01

5,458.57

Net income ............................................................................... ;$ 39,787.83
Add prior years' amortization of premiums on bonds sold at a
profit returned to the Masonic Homes.......................................... 2,259.93
Total income transferred to the Homes General Fund.................... $ 42,047.76

1,232.86

Capital account:
Rer}ular
Luckenbach
Total
Balance August 1, 1940........................ $1,167,764.24 $60,820.65 $1,228,584.89
Additions to funds:
From donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit A) •........•... ;.............. $
Securities (Schedule B-2) ............. .

63,827.91
7,302.00

$

63,827.91
7,302.00

Total .... ,.............................. :............... .'..$

71,129.91

$

71,129.91

552

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Profit on sales of securities:
Proceeds (Schedule B-3) ··············'-$ 285,788.71
Less book value .................................. 267,787.52

$ 5,142.31
5,142.31

$ 290,931.02
272,929.83

Net profit .................................:-......$

18,001.19

0

$

18,001.19

Total additions to funds ................ $

89,131.10

0

$

89,131.10

-----

Balance July 31, 1941 ............................ $1,256,895.34 $60,820.65

$1,317,715.99

.
Report adopted except the resolution for an appropriation,
which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

553

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
TWENTY-SECOND ANNUAL OBSERVANCE
OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
"If the man bites the dog," that's news. And so, in beginning this
report of the Twenty-second Annual Observance of Public Schools Week,
instead of referring to its great success (which of course is nothing new,
except perhaps in extent) we make mention of the fact that this year
there were apparently more Lodges than there should have been, even
though few in number, which made absolutely no contribution to it.
That's news.
There were observances (and successful ones too) in which the local
'Lodge should have been the motivating factor, but took no part whatsoever.
Now it was fortunate, of course, that an observance was held in that the
purpose of Public Schools Week was thus subserved; but it was extremely
unfortunate (as it was where there was no observance at all) in that the
defection of the local Lodge was a reflection on California Masonry generally, as well as on the particular Lodge and the Masons of that community.
As a result of the effort made by the fraternity, the observance of
Public Schools Week has become a community affair; but as should be
well known by this time, this does not mean that any Lodge anywhere should
now do less than was expected of it by Grand Lodge when the only outside assistance that was received came from school people who _sensed the
importance of the movement that had been instituted in the interests of
our public schools.
Indeed now that the annual observance has become a community affair,
it is perhaps more important than ever before that there shall not be lacking
that Masonic support and influence which was, if not entirely;-certainly
very largely, responsible for its growth and development; because its
Masonic origin is well known and very generally referred to at every
annual observance-not only by Mason~, but also by speakers at public
meetings and over the radio, and by writers of newspaper articles, who have
no connection with the Masonic fraternity.
This is true even in those communities in which the Committee of
Arrangements studiously avoids any reference in its literature to Masonry,
and is especially careful to do nothing that could possibly warrant a suspicion that the observance is not in every sense a community affair in which
Masons merely participate with other .friends of the public schools. And
there 'are communities (large as well as small) where Masonry is so identified with the observance, and the connection with the fraternity so emphasized by advertised Lodge sponsor.ship of meetings to which the public
is invited, that the community aspect is not as apparent as it might well be.
With Masonry thus publicly credited with the responsibility for the
observance of Public Schools Week, it must be obvious that if we do not
play the part we should, indeed take the lead, in every observance, those
who are not ol our number may believe, and they will have a right to believe,
that our protestations of regard for our public schools are "as sounding
brass or a tinkling cymbal."
We trust that nothing we have said will be taken as even an intimation
that there was any lack of Masonic endeavor this year (except in the few

555

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

instances to which reference was made); because nothing could be further
from the fact. The reports indicate that never before were the arrangements for an observance made by the Masters of our Lodges and by their
officers and committees with more loyalty, zeal and intelligence. And the
natural result was an unprecedented success.
The care and attention with which the arrangements for an observance
were made are often evidenced by the type of report submitted. Some of
them not only furnish all the information called for by the questionnaire
sent to the Master, but also include a typed summary, frequently in narrative form; with such detail as would enable one to visualize the entire observance from the appointment of the committee through all the arrangements to its close. The newspaper clippings are neatly pasted on sheets
of paper of the same size as the questionnaire and also attached to the ·
report are copies of programs and of notices, instructions to sub-committees,
bulletins from the principals to the teachers, instructions for the reception
of visitors to the schools and of practically all the literature incident to the
observance, including letters written after its close by teachers and appointed
"observers" giving their impressions, and in some instances making recom·mendations for the following year.
Because of its importance, we deem it advisable to here again rep.eat
what has been said from time to time in the reports of this Committee to
Grand Lodge with respect to the report the Master of each Lodge is
expected to make. We believe the repetition necessary, because there are
Masters who have no knowledge of any report made by our Committee
other than the one presented at the communication at which they are in
attendance; and some of the Masters, we regret to say, apparently do not
appreciate the value of the reports they are expected to make of the observances for which they are responsible.
The~e reports are a factor in what we have termed the "mechanics" of
an observance of Public Schools Week in so far as it is fostered and guided
by Grand Lodge; and in this connection we think that even as Masons
we may not unbecomingly say that although the observance has become
a community affair, nevertheless the growth, development and success
of the movement are undoubtedly due to the fact that it a highly organized
activity of Grand Lodge, and that it is through our Masonic Lodges that
the cooperating agencies are coordinated.
As is of course known, each year there is sent to the Master of every
Lodge in the jurisdiction a form on · which his report is to be made, and
which contains a series of questions he is expected to answer. The request
for this report comes from the Grand Master; and of course is not deliberately disobeyed nor ignored. But it occasionally happens that the kind of
report furnished would seem to indicate little more than a perfunctory
compliance with the Grand Master's request; and there are too many instances in which no report at all is made until after repeated, and urgent
requests.
We are not unmindful of the fact that it sometimes happens that a
Master is so situated that it is difficult, if not impossible for him to make
his report in the form we, and undoubtedly he also, would like to have it.
But there would appear to be no good reason why the form sent out for
the purpose should not be promptly returned with every question answered;
and there can be no doubt that most failures are due to simple carelessness.
We believe that if the value of these reports were fully realized, a special
effort would be made by those from whom they are expected to forward
them as promptly, and with as much detail, as possible.
Although our committee maintains contact with city and county super-

1ntendents of schools and with the State Department of E ducatio? and
also with the parent bodies of the organizations which cooperate m the
observance of Public Schools Week, it is largely through the rep«?rts from
the Lodges that . information is obtained with respect to the details of the
local observances. It is from these reports also that there come the suggestions which emanate from our committee. But in some instances they
serve a still more valuable purpose.
Every Lodge has a file of its own in our records. If we find, as we
·o ccasionally do, that some particular observance has not been as successful
in every particular as we believe it should have been, the report from that
community is carefully analyzed. And if we find, as we usually do, that the
procedure recommended as a result of past experience has not been fol~owe.d,
w e immediately write the Master of the Lodge while the matter ~s. ~till
fresh in his mind; not, as we are careful to explain, b.y way o.f cnbc1sm
of anything done or left undone, but solely with the desire of bemg helpful
and with the hope that any mistake which possibly may have been made
will be thereafter avoided; and we always ask that our letter b~ handed
to the one who will be in charge of the observance the followmg year.
And it is gratifying to be able to report that we have evidence of the
fact that this has proved well worth w hile.
In our report last year we quoted an excerpt from a newspape~ ~lipping
accompanying a report from one of our Lodges as well. as descnbmg the
general observance. Following that precedent, ~e .ag.am. q~ote a ne~s­
paper account of a local observance this year which 1s md1cattve of a situation very general throughout the State, both as to weather and attendance.
" Despite the fact that rain had fallen all day and that the
weather was still threatening at curtain time and that two ~ther
major attractions were being held in the town on the sa.me mght,
the biggest crowd in the history of the observance of Pubhc Schools
Week in .................. was present. Every seat in the higfh scho o 1
.. 1ctitorium the largest in .................., was filled long be ore 8 :00
o'clock A'n chairs available were brought in and many stood .in
the aisles and doorways while many were unable to secure even
standing room."
In this connection it seems to us worth while noting that the 'report
from a city in which the week's attendance is meticulously recorded shows
that the attendance at the evening programs increased from 15,922 last
year to 22,398 this year.
.
More than once attention has been called to the fact t hat without the
slightest depreciation of the fine cooperation of the California Chambers .
of Commerce ( Senior and Junior), California Cor:gress o~ Paren~s ai:d
Teachers, The California Department of the American Leg10n, Cahfor?1a
Federation of Women's Clubs, California League of Women Voters, Native
Sons of the Golden West, Native Daughters of the Golde~ ~est and State
Farm Bureau and of the various service clubs and other c1v1c and fr:iter~al
organizations which join in the observance, there are two factors pnmanly
responsible for the growth and development of Public Schools ~eek
One is the active cooperation of the school people, and the other is ~he
hearty and cordial support received from t~e newspapers and broadcastmg
stations.
Notwithstanding extraordinary demands on th~ new~pa~rs ~nd b;oadcasting
stations due to the war in Europe and the resultmg situation m this countqr,
they were no less liberal in their contributions this year t?an they have been m
the past. Indeed due to a situation t o which reference will. be hereafter made,
not only did the programs of the local observances receive very generous

554

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

newspaper notice, but there was probably more editorial reference to Public
Schools Week than otherwise there might have been. In this connection,
and in spite of our determination to make no reference to any particular observance, however well deserved, we cannot forbear mentioning that in
an extremely interesting report from a little Lodge serving an area of
about 8,500 square miles, there is a "challenge to any weekly newspaper
in the State of California to show more space devoted to Public Schools
Week in 1941" than was given that observance, which, by the way, covered
every school in the area. lncidently there were five hundred and twenty
column inches of newspaper articles with mention of Public Schools Week
by thirty-two merchants in their display advertising.
In c'onnection with our acknowlegment of the cooperation received
from the press generally, both urban and rural, we feel that we should
make mention of the fact that there were several communities, this year,
where there was an issue during Public Schools Week of a local newspaper which was entirely the work of the class in journalism in the high
school.
Except, in the larger communities, the public meeting with a guest
speaker is no longer the important feature it once was. But there has
been a material increase in the number of "radio talks." This is due, of
course, to the cooperation and courtesy of the broadcasting stations which
also make very generous "spot .announcements" of the observance. and
of the programs to be given.
Not only are public addresses broadcast, but time is also given for
the presentation of playlets and student programs. On one station this
year the time allotted to a Parent-Teacher Association was devoted to a
novel program presented by a Chapter of the Future Farmers of America
depicting a phase of the course offered by the high school in vocational
agriculture. Very interesting in itself, it must have been also fine publicity
for the local observance.
Some of the Lodges which did not join in the observance made no
report of any sort; and from the Masters of others came explanations
which were more ingenious than convincing. In one instance, however,
the faifore of the Lodge to join in the observance was fully justified; because
it was in consonance with the inhibition against taking part in any controversy between individuals or groups in a community even though it be
' in connection with, or grow out of, public school matters. The facts as
reported by the Master are substantially as follows :
In a certain community there was a bond election to be held one week
prior to the date set for the observance of Public Schools Week. The School
Board fixed that week as the date for holding the local observance; and
it was obviously for the purpose of affecting the bond election over which
there had been a bitter battle between two factiotis. Both factions were
represented in the membership of the Lodge. If the Lodge joined in the
observance to be held at the time fixed by the school board it might be
deemed an endorsement of the bond issue. On the other hand, if the Lodge
refused to join in that observance and held one at the time fixed for the
general observance of Public Schools Week, it might be assumed that the
Lodge was opposed to the bond issue.· The Master, therefore, very wisely
decided that the Lodge should not join in any observance of P ublic Schools
Week this year.
In a report such as this it is not feasible, of course, to do more than
refer to · the programs in general without making especial mention of the
many which well deserve it. Again this year there was an increased number
evidently designed to convey information as to just what the schools are

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

557

doing, rather than to merely furnish entertainment. T hey included demonstrations of classroom procedure in cultural, vocational and homemaking
activities with exhibits of school wor k of every sort and kind, and of the
,tools and equipment with which students are trained for occupational
and defense industries. And there was an increase this year in the number
of "panels" and "forums" for the discussion of questions affecting the
schools. " Back to School" night was featured in many observances as
were "Father and Son" meetings held in the schools and also in some of the
service clubs participating in the observance. Among the most interesting
meetings were some held by the service clubs, or in which they participated
either as hosts or guests. There were m any instances reported in which
the regular luncheon meeting of a service club was held in a school cafeteria with a program presented by pupils of the school and which was
followed or in some instances preceded, by a visit to the classrooms.
Many of the . observances were . built around "themes" or "motifs"
and among these were "Builders of America," "The American Way of
Life," " Educated Citizenship," " Free People in Free Schools," " Foundations
of Democracy" and "The Part the School Plays in National Defense." It
is interesting to note that in sonie communities the announcement of a
program in which the schools and national defense were associated undoubtedly accounted for an increase in attendance ; while in at least one
other in which there was held an otherwise especially successful observance,
a forum for ' the discussion of the situation of the local schools as a result
of the national defense program was very poorly atten ded.
In view of the nature of the programs generally, it is fair to assume
that the incr.ease in the number of visitors to the schools, and in the
attendance at the public meetings, was due to an increased desire upon the
part of the parents of school childrP.n, and of the public generally, to find
out for themselves whether or not what they had been hearing and reading
about the public schools of the 11ation were true.
The people everywhere apparently wanted to know whether or not
their schools were permeated with " Communism," or "Fascism " or any
.other "ism." They wanted to find out the truth, if they could, about such
magazine articles as "Are D emocratic Principles Disappearing From Our
School Books" and "Propaganda In Our Schools . .. Treason to the
Spirit of America" ; and whether Dartmouth College or the American
Federation of Advertisers had correctly appraised certain high school
textbooks. Some of them had perhaps read the attack on progressive education by the author of "Lpllypdps v. Learning" ; and in one community
they probably want ed to know if it were true as had been said, or rather
intimated, by a newsp aper columnist that the children were not being taught
how to compute interest because the time which should have been thus
employed· was spent in the gymnasium learning the tango. And those
who could availed themselves of the opportunity afforded by Public Schools
Week. And, by the way, if that. columnist had done likewise that "anything but complimentary attitude towar d the public schools system" (his
own words) might have been changed.
To learn just w hat is being taught in the public schools generally,
and how, and why, and the real character of those by whom, it is being
taught is in itself no easy task for any particular individual parent or
.group of parents. And it is rendered · still more difficult by reason of
. certain conditions which here can be only indicated.
· There never has bee.n a time since Horace Mann initiated the movement
for free tax supported, non-sectarian public schools that they were not
being criticized for something :they were either doing or leaving undone;

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and we have with us today one of those periodic recrudescences of the
battle he waged. So bitter was this contest, by the way, that the late
Professor Cubberly said of it that with the exception of the struggle for the
abolition of slavery there had never been a question before the American
people which caused so much . feeling and aroused such bitter antagonism.
The criticism being voiced by some parents today is not unlike that
which their parents made of their schools. It is honest and sincere, but
seldom thoroughly informed. And there is criticism of a different sort
from other sources which also is sometimes, but not always unfortunately,
.honest and sincere. But there can be no doubt that honest and sincere
and even well-informed criticism has been capitalized and publicized by
certain individuals and groups with nothing but ulterior motives.
The public school system is too firmly entrenched in the minds and
hearts of the American people to be in any great peril as an Institution;
but no person familiar with the facts can doubt that there is a determined
effort being made in certain quarters to curtail and limit the scope of
public education.
There is today a contest being waged in which in addition to individuals
and certain comparatively small groups, there are arraigned against each
other large and· influential organizations such as the National Education
Association, The Progressive Education Association, American Federation
of Teachers, National Association of Manufacturers, United States Chamber
of Commerce and New York State Economic Council. And then, of course,
there are also among the school people State Teacher Associations; and
among the lay groups State Taxpayers Associations. The result has been
a flood of propaganda with which the earnest seeker for truth must
struggle; and which too often leaves one not personally familiar with the
facts baffled and confused.
In connection with the reference to certain lay organizations which
may be assumed to be the representatives of large business interests, it
should be pointed out that no more loyal, enthusiastic, unselfish protagonists of our public schools, and of modern education can be found than
some of the members of these organizations. To them the encouragement
of a sound critical faculty in high school students does not constitute a
threat to the safety or perpetuity of our democracy. One of them in an
address before the National Education Association said:

is no other group of American citizens more devoted to the ideals of our
Democracy and of our American way of life than are those fi ne men and
women to whom those of us w ho believe in our public schools willingly
and confidently entrust our children.
Of course criticism of our schools is inevitable, and desirable too·, in
so far as it is honest and sincere and made with that knowledge of the facts
on which it should be based. Such criticism should be welcomed; and not
considered as hostile, nor be deemed "propaganda" in the opptobrious
sense in which that word is used by those against whom it is directed.
As we once confessed, yes boasted (in answering a charge that the
Masonic fraternity in sponsoring Public Schools Week was engaged in
propaganda) " Yes, accepting the definition of propaganda as a plan for
the propagation of a doctrine or system of principles, we are, of course
propagandists for our system of public education." And so, too, are those
thousands in the Parent-Teacher Associations and in the service clubs
and in the American Legion and in the other social and civic organizations
who so eagerly and cordially join each year in the undertaking in which
we are engaged. And no less so are those owners, publishers and editors
of newspapers and the directors and managers of broadcasting systems
and radio stations without whose sympathetic aid and whole-hearted cooperation that undertaking would not have assumed its present proportions.
We are propagandists for our public schools because of our belief in the
contribution they are making to that enlightened citizenship upon which
depends the hope for the future of this nation of ours-perhaps the hope
oi civilization itself.
All of which is respectfully submitted,

558

"Teaching our children what "to think cannqt possibly fit them
for life in these changing times. We do not know what they should
think; for they must deal with things which we know nothing about.·
We must teach them how to think-how to find out about these
things, so that they may apply this new knowledge to the new problems with which they will inevitably be faced."
The unkindest criticism to which the schools have been subjected, and
particularly because so undeserved, is that which reflects on the loyalty
and patriotism of the school people.
It may be true (and probably is) that the curricula and methods.of
instruction are not the best that could be devised; it is possible that the
cultural arts are receiving too much, and the vocational too little, attention;
perhaps the social science studies are being over-emphasized; possibly the
taxpayers' burden for the support of our public schools should be lightened;
it may be that some of the money is being wasted. Indeed even the fundamental idea of providing at public expense for every child an opportunity
for an education beginning with the kindergarten and ending only with the
University may be all wrong. But one thing beyond doubt is that there

ROBERT A. ODELL,
JOH N B. BEMAN,
MELVIN E. BOWMAN,
A. R. CLIFTON,
WILL
CRAWFORD,
PERCY R. DAVIS,
JOHN L. COMPTON,
NORMAN H. FARNHAM,
DR. WALTER
GOODFELLOW ,
F. A. HENDERSON,
VIERLING KERSEY,
JOHN A. SEXSON,
STEADMAN G. SM ITH,
CH ARLES E. TEACH,

c.

v.

CHAS.

ALBERT

559

A DAMS,

w ALTER L. BACHRODT,

ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,
Rav W. CLOUD,
·
VIRGIL E. DICKSON,
ELIAS E. ELLISON,
WILLIAM F. EWING,
C. BURNHAM HERYFORD,
CHARLES C. H UGHES,
WESLEY W. KERGAN,
FREDERIC K F . MARTIN,
JOSEPH P. NOURSE,
WILLIA M G. PADEN,
JESSE W . WARNER,
VA UGH AN MACCAUGHEY.

Report adopted as read.
Remarks by Distinguished Guests
The Grand Master then introduced the M.'.W .'.Toler R.
White, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona, who graciously
responded with an interesting address to Grand Lodge.
·The M.'.W.'.Grand Master then introduced the Hon. H. John
Qualman, Representative of the Grand Master and the Grand
Lodge of Guatemala, who addressed the brethren and extended
the greetings and good wishes of the Grand Master and the
Grand Lodge of our sister Republic.

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCING
BUILDING ·PROJECTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
During the year ending September 30, 194( your Committee has
reviewed the following projects in accordance with the prov1s10ns contained in Sections 87 and 152 of the Constitution and Ordinances.
John Mashall Lodge No. 636, F. & A. M., situated at Los Angeles:
This Lodge through its Inspector, Brother Roy C. Bryan, has discussed
with your Committee a plan whereby it was sought to purchase the property in which the Lodge now meets. Your Committee made a thorough
study of the affairs of this Lodge, including its membership and financial
standing, and also the plan for the purchase of this building.
Your Committee feels that the desire to secure a permanent home for
this Lodge is a commendable one, but is of the opinion that considering
the size of the Lodge, the number of years it has been in existence, and
that the amount of cash in the treasury of the L odge is not more than
sufficient to place the Lodge in a comfortable financial condition; that
therefore, the purchase of this building wou ld be very apt to prove a very
heavy financial burden on the Lodge and its members, and because of this
it might result in hampering the future growth of the Lodge, and might
also be the source of creating discord therein.
For the above reasons, your Committee disapproved the plan.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322, F. & A. M., situated in Alhambra :
Your Committee approved a request· in which Alhambra Lodge desired to deed a strip of the property it owns to the City of Alhambra for
street purposes. Your Committee was of the opinion that by giving its
approval the lots now owned by the Lodge will materially increase in value.
Beverly Hills Masonic Building Association, situated at Beverly Hills :
It has long been the desire of the brethren of Beverly Hills Lodge
No. 528 to have a Masonic Temple in the Beverly Hills area. A plan of
finance was presented to your Committee whereby sufficient funds to
defray the cost of a new building are to be raised by a "life insurance
plan" and the solicitation of gifts. The plan of finance did not contemplate
the investment of any Lodge funds.
Your Committee was unwilling to approve the so-called "insurance
plan" ·for the reason that this method of raising money · has met with considerable criticism in the past. The Master of the Lodge was notified
that the question of the practicability of the "insurance plan" as a means
for raising the necessary funds is a matter for the Lodge itself to determine.
Your Committee suggested that the Lodge and the Building Association
should proceed with the greatest caution that no embarrassing complications
may develop in the future.
Your Committee examined the plans for this new building project
and approved them subject to the following conditions : First, that no
Lodge funds shall be solicited or invested by Beverly H ills Lodge; secondly,
that all building ordinances are to be strictly complied with . .
East Bay Lodge No. 489, F . & A. M., situated in Berkeley:
Permission was granted to purchase twenty shares of stock in the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

561

East Bay Masonic Building Association at $10 per share. This action is
pursuant to the request submitted to your Committee and reported on at
the last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Golden Gate L odge No. 30, F. &. A. M., situated in San Francisco:
Approval of your Committee was given to purchase the Taraval
Masonic ·Temple located at 14th Avenue and Taraval Street for the
sum of $30,500. T he financial statement submitted in connection with this
malter reflects assets consisting of cash and securities in excess of $47,000.
Lancaster Lodge No. 437, F. & A. M., situated in L ancaster:
Your Committh granted permission to the Lancaster Masonic Building Association to issue debentures in the amount of $3,000. This was
necessary owing to advances in building and labor costs in connection
with the building project heretofore authorized by your Committee. Past
Grand Master Crites met with a Committee of the Association. This
consent was given with the understanding that the debentures are to be for
a period of fifteen years and are the direct obligation of the Building Association and that a definite fund be set up for the retirement of these debentures, and that a proper proportion be retired annually; first to needy
members and if this does not provide a necessary amount which is desired
to be retired, that the remainder of the amount is to be determined by lot.
This consent was also given which the understanding that t hese debentures
are to be sold only to members of th e Fraternity.
East Gate Lodge No. 290, F . & A. M., situated at Los Angeles:
The Masonic Temple owned by the East Gate Hall Association, Inc.,
necessitated repairs in the amount of approximately $5,000 to place it in
a rentable condition. For this expenditure an annual net income of $1,440.00
was contemplated. The building is free and clear, and cash on hand in the
amount of $7,109.00 is reported. Inspector Frank G. Falloon examined the
p lans and reported favorably thereon.
Your Committee approved the expenditure of $5,000 for the repair and
improvement of this Temple. We have learned that since th e completion
of th e improvements desirable tenants were secured and the initial outlay
is expected to be returned within three or four years.
Midway Lodge No. 426, F. & A. M ., situated in Taft:
This Lodge has $14,165.00 in a savings account and $1,882.00 in a
commercial account and owns 939 shares of stock in the T aft Masonic
Temple Association. The Lodge desires to purchase the out standing 347
shares at $50.00 per share which was the par value.of th e stock so th at it
will ultimately own a ll of the issued stock of the Temple Association.
Your Committee has given consent to the request of the Lodge, it
being noted that the Lodge has more than ample funds on hand to purchase
this stock and still be in a position to properly care for all of its obligations.
Oroville Lodge N o. 103, F. & A. M., situated in O roville:
This Lodge desires to purchase a lot adjoining the Masonic Temple
at Oroville for $3,000. The financial statement r eflects asset s in the amount
of $53,767.80, of which $1,818.80 represents cash. It is also noted that the
Life Membership Fund of the Lodge, amounting to $2,250.00, is invested
in the Temple, and the title to the Temple is in the name of the Lodge. It
is anticipated that a building will be erected upon this lot at a future time.
Your Committee has noted the excellent record made by t his Lodge in

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

fully paying for its Temple and permission was given to borrow the sum of
$3,000.00 for the purpose of purchasing this lot.
While it is not the province of this Committee to pay attention to the
character of investments of Life Membership fees, and yet, as it has come
to the attention of this Committee that the Life Membership Fund to
which reference has been made has been invested in the Oroville Temple,
we feel it is not entirely out of order for us to have suggested that the Lodge·
should look to the return of these Life Membership fees and the eventual
investment of them in securities as provided by Grand Lodge, and that
this should be done before any further investment is made for the erection
of a building on the lot sought to be purchased.
•

sufficient to meet expenses. There is a $3,600:00 indebtedness secured by a
first deed of trust, and approximately $600.00 owed for current bills.
It is the ultimate desire of Howard Lodge to acquire all the stock in the
Corporation and to have the building used exclmtively by the various
Masonic bodies of this city.
The Lodge reports $3,800.00 cash on hand and now requests permission
to advance $3,000.00 to the Corporation. The other bodies will advance
sufficient funds to discharge all outstanding indebtedness.
·
Your Committee approved this request with the expr,ss understanding
that the Lodge may loan the Corporation the sum of $3,00D.OO to be secured
by a first mortgage on the premises owned by the Corporation.

Perris Lodge No. 411, F. & A. M., situated at Perris:
Consent was given to purchase the property in which Perris Lodge
now meets for $5,500.00; $1,500.00 of Lodge funds to be invested, $1,000.00
to be raised by the members through personal loans, and a $3,000.00 bank
loan, payable $50.00 per month, including interest, may be consummated.
This consent was given with the understanding that a holding corporation
be formed for th e purpose of holding title. Thi s requirement is in keeping
with the established policy of your Committee.

Carpinteria Lodge No. 444, F. & A. M., situated at Carpinteria:
This Lodge owns the :Masonic Temple at Carpinteria upon which there
is a bank loan secured by a mortgage in the amount of $12,000.00. The
Temple was severely damaged by a recent earthquake. The mortgagee
bank is desirous of having the loan paid and has indicated that it will
accept a material discount.
The Lodge has 76 members, and its finances are such that · it cannot
do anything toward furnishing funds with which to make the necessary
repairs-which will cost approximately $2,500.00, or pay the present loan
on the building. It was imperative that the building be repaired without
delay to prevent the structure from further damage, and also to prevent the
tenant from quitting the premises. The above facts were presented to your
Committee by Worshipful Brother Ralph C. Hine, Inspector 70th District.
It was subsequently learned that the mortgagee bank insisted that the
building be put in repair or it would foreclose and take possession of the
p·rerriises.
On condition that the present bank loan can be satisfied for $5,000.00,
and the building properly repaired, a new loan in the amount of $7,500.00
is being arranged. Yom· Committee was requ.e sted to assist in obtaining
an advance of $2,500.00 from Grand Lodge~for the purpose of restoring
this Temple.
Your Committee has examined the past record of the Lodge and was
favorably impressed by the manner it has served its community and
Masonry in general.
The above facts were certified to The Most Worshipful Lloyd E .
Wilson, Grand Master, with the recommendation that Grand Lodge advance to Carpinteria Lodge the sum of $2,500.00 for the restoration of the
Temple, and that this amount be returned to Grand Lodge from the furi'ds
received from the $7,500.00 loan.

562

Welcome Lodge No. 255, F. & A. M., situated in Lemoore:
This Lodge now meets in the Odd Fellows Building in Lemoore. The
Lodge has 111 members, and reports $6,162.04 cash on hand, and owns.
a lot SO x 100 in the City of Lemoore. The Lodge proposes to purchase an.
adjoining lot for $300.0.0 and to erect thereon a ground floor building at an
estimated cost of $30,000.00. This building to be for rental purposes only,
and at some future time a second floor would be added for Lodge purposes.
The Lodge sought permission from your Committee to finance this proposed
project as follows:
$5,000.00 of the funds of the Lodge.
$7,0bO.OO to be raised among the brethren of the Lodge
An $18,000.00 bank loan at 5 per cent to be arranged.
Past Grand Master Crites and another member of your Committee·
m et with the Building Committee of the Lodge and discussed the above·
proposal in detail. Your Committee has given this matter thorough study
and has concluded that the project should be deferred until a more appropriate time. We do not attempt to thwart the ambition and desire of any
Lodge to own its own home, but considering the present high cost of
building, the probability that costs will further materially increase, that
building materials are becoming scarcer with indications that some items
will soon be impossible to obtain. There is a general demand throughout
the Nation to postpone any development that can be deferred without
material loss, and that there will come a time when there will be a genuine
demand for employment by those who are now engaged in Defense activities,
and that by waiting until that time Welcome Lodge will not only be serving
a National need but will actually save considerable money for the Lodge.
In the meantime the Lodge can take advantage of. the present situation
and strengthen its financial condition; thus it will be better prepared to
realize its present ambition .
Howard Lodge No. 37, F. & A. M., and Masonic Temple Corporation of
Yreka:
For some time the Temple Corporation, the owner of the Masonk
Temple at Yreka, has been in financial difficulties. The income was not.

563

Rising Light Lodge No. 397, F. & A. M., situated at Huntington Park:
In 1922 the Masonic Building Corporation of Huntington Park was
organized, a buliding was completed in 1924. Stock was sold to the members
of the Lodge with the representation that the Lodge would refund the
amount paid in by any member-stockhO'lder at some future 'time.: ..'rhe
building was subsequently foreclosed by the bondholders. The Lodge was
called upon to fulfill the promise made to its members.
Your Committee approved the following plan :
The Lodge would purchase the stock from any me~ber at . $100.00 per
share by giving such member credit toward the payment of his future dues.
Fifty-nine members are thus effected. In the event of the death of any
such member there would be no further obligation on the part of the Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ClKAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. The Lodge could purchase from its funds the stock held by the widow
of a deceased member, or from any person not a member thereof on a
cash settlement basis.
The authority given by your Com1J1ittee recited one express restrictionthat the Lodge should at all times maintain a $5,000.00 cash reserve as an
emergency fund, and in any event hot to be used for the purchase of stock.

past year iii conne'c tion with three Masonic buildings which have been
in serious financial difficulty for several years. These matters, on which we
now report, have been the subject of much concern among the leaders
of Grand Lodge, and it is a source of personal gratification t o each member
of your Committee in rendering this service.

Point Firmin Masonic Building Association, situated at San Pedro:
Consent was given for the execution of a loan for $1,500.00 for the
purpose of mak•g certain necessary repairs on the Point Firmin Masonic
Temple.

Masonic Temple Association; Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192, F. & A. M.;
Magnolia Lodge No. 242, F. & A. M.; La Cumbre Lodge No. 642,
F. & A. M., situated at Santa Barbara:
This Temple Association suffered material damage to its building in the
earthquake disaster of 1925. Thereafter, the Masons of this locality, animated with renew ed enthusiasm, built a new Masonic Temple, and this
Grand Lodge made them a gift · of $40,000.00. Additional funds were secured and a large bank loan made. The bank, over a period of many years,
had urged the Santa Barbara Masons to amortize this loan, indicating that
it would be willi ng to enter into a compromise provided that the necessary
funds were raised. As recent as May 9, 1941, the indebtedness due the bank
amounted to $118,000.00.
After nearly tw o years of continuous work by the campaign committee,
the point was reached where the bank agreed to accept $35,000.00 in full
satisfaction of the $118,000.00 indebtedness. To raise the $35,000.00, the
bank made a new ten year loan of $15,000.00, and approximately $16,000.00
was subscribed to the Debt _F und by individuals.
In consideration of a plan whereby the Temple Association would
transfer title to the Temple to a new corporation to be formed "by the
three Lodges of Santa Barbara, and in a last minute effort to _save all that
they had already invested in the Temple, your Committee co nsented to the
following investments of Lodge funds in the new corporation in which the
Lodges have exclusive management :
•
Santa Barbara Lodge to invest $2,500.00 ;
Magnolia Lodge to invest $1,500.00 ;
La Cumbre Lodge to invest $250.00;
these investments to be evidenced by formal certificates of the corporation.
We express our appreciation to Brother Ralph C. Hine, Inspector, 70th
District, for his interest and cooperation that the above negotiations were
successfully concluded.

564

Masonic Temple Asociation of San Diego; San Diego Lodge No. 35;
Blackmer Lodge No. 442; S. W . Hackett Lodge No. 574, situated
in San Diego :
Your Committee approved the purchase of the Elks Building of San .
Diego which is to serve as a New Masonic Temple for the Masons of
San Diego, together with the plan of finance.
This building originally cost in excess of $400,000 and was purchased
by the Temple Association for ..........................................:.............$210,000.00
Cost of proposed changes........................................................ 55,000.00
$265,000.00
Allowance for the old building which the seller agreed to
take as part payment.......................................................... 80,000.0_0
Net Cost ..................................................................................$185,000.00
Cash payment ................................................................................ 121,000.00
Balance in a 15-year unamortized trust deed ; at 4% ....................$ 64,000.00
The cash payment of $121,000.00 to be raised as follows:
Scottish Rite Bodies of San Diego....................................$100,000.00
Al Bahr Temple of the Shrine .............................,............ 5,000.00
San Diego Lodge No. 35, F . & A. M....................... 10,000.00
Blackmer Lodge No. 442, F . & A. M .................-............
5,000.00
S. W. Hackett Lodge, No. 574, F. & A. M...................
1,000.00
$121,000.00
Consent was given San Diego Lodge No. 35, Blackmer Lodge No. 442,
and S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574 to invest the sums hereinabove stated
with the understanding that a proper certificate of stock, or other evidence
showing the amount of its investment in this project be issued.
This project had the approval of the Right Worshipful Claude H.
Morrison, Junior Grand Warden, together with Inspectors James B.
McLees and Harry S. Clark.
Russian River Lodge No. 181, F. & A. M., situated at Windsor:
Approval was g·iven the Lodge to invest $350,00 of its funds for the
purchase of a lot adjoining the present Masonic Temple, The proposal
contemplated the wit)i.drawal of $150.00 from the Lodge treasury and a bank
loan of $200.0o' to be repaid within eight months.
Inspector Karl F. Stolting, upon investigation recommended approval
of the above.

•••••

Your Committee has devoted considerable time and effort during the

565

Redondo Beach Masonic Building Association; Redondo Lodge No. 328,
F. & A. M., situated at Redondo Beach:
This Association has been in financial difficulty for several years. It
owed nearly $60,000, secured by a mortgage to the life insurance company
which it was unable to pay. Foreclosure was threatened, and a point was
reached where the brethren felt that nothing could be done to work out
a feasible solution, and an offer was made to quitclaim the premises to the
mortgagee: The building was in a state of disrepair, several tenants left
the premises, and th e welfare and harmony of Redondo Lodge was seriously
effected.
The mortgagee made demands for payment of the debt which clearly
could not be met. Their local investment agent was at first un's ympathetic
to effect a compromise which would be favorable insofar as the Building
Association was concerned. They later agreed to accept $25,000.00 in full
settlement of the indebtedness. This was more than the building was worth
·and the o~er was fort_hwith rejected.
A member of your Committee called on the agent. A ll phases of the

566

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

matter were discussed. Later an arrangement was finally reached whereby
the $60,000.00 indebtedness was settled in full for $12,000.00, cash.
A new loan for $10,000.00 at 5%, payable $100.00 per month including
interest, was secured from the Bank of America.
Your Committee consented to an investment of $2,000.00 from the
funds of the Lodge.
The former policies of the Building Association were changed to
conform to good business usage, improvements were made to make the
building more attractive, the income was materially increased, a substantial
reduction in taxes was effected, and aboYe all else-peace and harmony
once again prevails in Redondo Lodge.
We also mention the yeoman service rendered by Worshipful Brother
Wilson 0 . Wade, Junior Grand Steward, for his untiring efforts in connection with the above matter, and for the valued assistance given your
Committee.
We also express our appreciation to Brother Frank Harwell, Jr.,
Inspector of the 88th District for his interest and cooperation in the above
matter.
New Masonic Temple Association, Ltd., situated at Long Beach:
Past events which lead up to the present financial distress of this
Association will be omitted from this report. At the present time, however,
there is a valid and subsisting indebtedness of over $300,000.00, secured by
a mortgage, in which the Mutual Building and . Loan Association of Long
Beach is mortgagee. This Building and Loan Association was taken over
by the Building and Loan Commissioner. of the State of California for
liquidation. The Commissioner subsequently served notice that foreclosure
proceedings would be instituted unless some form of settlement could be
made.
· One member of your Committee was present at two meetings of the
Board of Directors of the Temple Association at which the Attorney for the
Commissioner was also present. The Attorney stated that it was not the
desire of the Com1nissioner to order foreclosure- except as a last resortthat if sufficient funds could be raised the Commissioner would request the
approval and confirmation of the Superior Court to a "compromise" that
would result in a very substantial discount in favor of the Temple Association.
Plans for a fund raising effort were submitted to your Committee.
Approval was given subject to the following restrictions:
First: That all funds so raised are to be impounded in a special
account in the Bank of America, First and Pine Branch, at
Long Beach, and to be used only in the event that such amount
as may accrue from the fund raising effort can and will clear
the property of the present existing mortgage and leave it
unemcumbered. Otherwise all collected funds are to be returned to the donors. (Representation was made to your
Committee that there was on hand sufficient funds to defray
all costs of the campaign.)
Second: That no Lodge shall contrib~te any of its funds toward
this campaign without the further consent of your Committee.
The latest report on the results of the campaign indicate approximately
$25,800.00 subscribed, with about $10,000.00 ·actually collected and in the
bank.
It is also reported that there is an apethetic feeling among some of the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

567

Long Beach brethren toward saving this Temple. It is hoped that during
the ensuing year the brethren will forget any differences; that the New
Masonic Temple will not be lost, but saved-to the honor and integrity
of Masonry in Long Beach.
Correspondence was also had with the following L odges and Temple
Associations: Colusa Masonic Hall Association of Colusa ; Arcadia Lodge
No. 547 of Arcadia; Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625, of Los Angeles ; San
Gabriel Lodge No. 546, of San Gabriel ; Past Grand Master J. T . Fraser
in behalf of Crescent Lodge No. 45, of Crescent City; Brawley. Lodge
No. 402, of Brawley; Rio Vista Lodge No. 208, of Rio Vista; Alamo Lodge
No. 122, of Walnut Creek; San Miguel Lodge No. 285, of San Miguel;
South West Lodge No. 283, of National City; Brother John G. ·Munholland
in behalf of the Masonic Club of Palm Springs; All States Lodge No. 592,
·Of Long Beach. However, no permission was granted for the investment
or expenditure of any funds.
The 4,passing of the Very Worshipful John Whicher, Grand Secretary
of this Grand Lodge, was deeply felt by your Committee.
To his careful scrutiny of the d etails of managem ent and to his
genuine interest in this great work of Masonry is due more than can be
recorded in this Report.
He will be missed as only those most worthy are so missed;
\Vho only good have done, who lived but gladly to assist
The stranger at the door, whose wisdom ever lends
A helpful hand, a word of cheer to those he named as friends.
Your Committee has received fu ll cooperation from th e officers and
brethren of the Lodges, in their effort t o comply with both the spirit and
letter of the Ordinances governing th e investment of fu nds and building
of Masonic Temples.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM

P. FILMER,

s.

ARTHUR
CRITES,
HERBERT C. G OL DM AN,

Committee.

That portion of the report having to do with Finances was
referred to the Committee on Finance and the balance of the
report was adopted as read.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

568

569

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC EDUCATION
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee regrets to report the death of W. Brother A. Heber
Winder, who for several years was chairman of the Committee on Masonic
Education. Brother Winder was an indefatigable worker; under his direction
the Committee was very active and Masonic education was stimulated
throughout the jurisdiction. He was a sincere and devoted Mason, one
who lived his Masonry, and the craft in California will miss his progressive
leadership, his wise counsel and his splendid example. The Committee is
glad to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the memory of Brother
\\Tinder and to express appreciation of the service he rendered Grand
Lodge in particular and the fraternity in general.
The passing of Brother Winder made it impossible for the Committee
to formulate an effective program for the current Masonic year. We did,
howe~er, send a questionnaire to all Masters of Lodges for the purpose
oi (1) determining what was being done along the lines of Masonic education, and (2) to obtain from the Masters suggestions for the future.
There were 275 replies received and the recommendations made in this
report are the result of a careful analysis of the answers.
There seems to be no consistent or generai program of Masonic education in the Lodges. Some Lodges have a fairly comprehensive and
effective method of education, either through the coaches to the candidates
receiving the degrees, or by means of programs, speakers, quizzes and
discussions for the enlightenment of the older brethren. But most of the
Lodges have no regular and systematic program throughout the year. At
the same time, a great majority of the Masters iridicated that they were
of the opinion that the brethren would welcome Masonic information if
it were given in brief, interesting form.
The Manual of Masonic Education, as prepared and published a few
years ago, is not in general use, although some Lodges use it as a reference
work. The booklet has been withdrawn from circulation by action of
Grand Lodge, and no more copies are being sent out.
The little pamphlet, Masonic Law and Custom, continues in demand
and there is ample supply on hand to meet the requirements for the coming
year.
The term "Masonic Education" is unfortunate. There seems to be a
decided and enduring prejudice against the phrase. Many brethren resent
the implication that they are ignorant and need education, and they also
object to other brethren being set up as instructors and mentors. This
feeling seems to be widespread. Brethren welcome "information" on Masonic
subjects, but do not want "education." In the popular mind, education
carries the thought of high-brow stuff, dry-as-dust and difficult to understand. We think the time has come to change the name of the committee.
In these days of digests and short cuts, Masonic information must
be put out in concise, interesting and challenging form. Brethren do not
like profound, long-winded dissertations on abstract and abstruse themes.
They ask for facts; not philosophy. They want capsules of pre-digested
data that can be shot at them with the rapidity, clearness and vividness of
a radio announcement. The day of the ponderous sermonic lecture is past.
Methods of Masonic education must be revised to fit the rapid-fire procedures of the quiz programs. Many Lodges arrange their own prog·rams

on the question and answer system and find them attractive and satisfactory.
Most of the Lodges from time to time invite speakers to address them
and this has been found a most efficient way of promoting attendance and
stimulating interest. Complaint is made, however, that Masters do not
know what speakers are available or upon what subjects they are prepared
to speak. The committee should be of help to the Masters by supplying
information regarding speakers.
At the last communication of Grand Lodge the sum of $300 was appropriated for the use of the Committee. Only $20.49 was disbursed.
This Committee recommends:
I. ·That the name of the Committee be changed to "Committee
on Masonic Information."
2. That the Lodge system of instruction be continued.
3. That the Committee be authorized to prepare and print a monthly
four-page bulletin giving ten questions and answers each month
on Masonic subjects, to be mailed to the Masters and to be used
by the Lodge to make up quizz programs.
4. That the Committee be instructed to prepare a roster of available speakers for the benefit of Masters who may desire lectures
on Masonic topics.
5. That the Committee prepare, in consultation with the Grand
Master and other leaders designated by him, a series of pamphlets designed to be used by coaches while instructing. candidates in the lectures of the three degrees.
6. That the Committee be authorized to communicate with the
Grand Secretaries, and similar Committees in other Grand juris~
dictions, to ascertain what is being done in other states.
7. That the sum of $500 be appropriated to cover expenses of printing, postage and stenographer's services.
Respectfully submitted,
DELBERT BERRY,
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN,
RUDOLPH JENNY,
GEORGE
JENSEN,
N. PERRY MOERDYKE,
REYNOLD
BLIGHT,

c.

E.

Committee.

The report was adopted as read with the exception of that
portion requesting an appropriation, which was referred to
the Finance Committee.

RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED
By Ione Lodge No. 80: Providing that Secretaries of Lodges mark
the receipts of Past Masters in a manner to designate that the brother is
a Past Master.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Wesley W. Kergan: To amend Section 210 of the Constitution by
adding after the word "barkeeper" in the third line from the end of said

570

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

section, the following words: "or who shall purchase a drink from any
such person."

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Wesley W. Kergan: To amend Section 210 of the Constitution by
changing the period at the end of that section, to a comma, and adding the
following words: "unless at such trial it shall be found that the conduct
of the accused has not brought the name of the fraternity into disrepute."

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Laurel Lodge No. 245: providing for a new section to be added
to the Constitution, to read as follows:
"Any Lodge is hereby authorized to remit in advance for the period
of his service or training, the dues of any member who may be in such
service or training, and no p,er capita tax shall be payable to the Grand
Lodge for such member during the period for which his dues are so remitted."

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Harold Morrison, Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, to amend Section 1,
of Article 2, of the Uniform Code of By-Laws, by adding the words "or
Organist," at the end of said Section 1.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
and the Committee on Jurisprudence.
By C. E. Mallachowitz, . Cal~donia Lodge No. 486: That the salary
of the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge and its Homes be fixed at the
sum of Five Thousand Dollars.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
By C. E. Mallachowitz, Caledonia Lodge No. 486: That "The Flag
of our Country be escorted into the Lodge room, placed, saluted by the
bearer; pledge of allegiance given by the Lodge, at Lodge opening, and
retired in full form at the closing, at least once each month."

Referred to the Ritual Committee.
At 5 :OS o'clock P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00
o'clock Wednesday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

571

Jn ~ranb 1Lobge
MORNING SESSION.
Wednesday, October 15, 1941.
Grand Lodge was called from refreshment to labor at the
hour of 10:00 o'clock A. M., the Grand Master presiding.
Devotions were led by the Very Rev. Grand Chaplain.
The Most Worshipful John A. Emigh, Grand Master of
Masons in Washington, was received with Grand Honors, and
after being welcomed by the Grand Master, was escorted to a
seat in the East. Grand Master Emigh responded to the welcome
of our Grand Master and expressed the greetings of his Grand
Jurisdiction.
·
The Grand Master then called attention to the fact that
during Tuesday's sessions he had used the gavel presented to him
at the commencement of his term by his own Lodge, Ingleside
No. 630; and that he was now using, for today's session, the gavel
made and presented to him by the Secretary of Georgetown
Lodge No. 25.
Greetings were read from the Most Worshipful J. A. McRae,
Grand Master of Masons in the Province of Ontario, Canada.
The Minutes of the sessions of Tuesday were read and approved.
The Grand Master called attention to the presence at this
session of Past Grand Master Earl Warren, who had been prevented by illness from being present at yesterday's sessions.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC PUBLICATIONS
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee appointed to consider the recommendation of the
Grand Master in his Annual Message to the last annual communication
of Grand Lodge concerning the so-called "Masonic" magazines and publications has had the same under consideration pursuant to resolution of
Grand Lodge and begs leave to report:
The members of the Committee and others have offered suggestions
ranging from a total prohibition of the use of the word "Masonic" or any
kindred term implying a connection with Masonry to other and milder
forms of limitation upon the conduct of the business of these publications.
We have considered these suggestions, together with the recommendation of the Grand Master, from legal as well as ethical grounds and have
come to the · conclusion that the recommendation of the Grand Master irt his

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Annual Message to the last communication of Grand Lodge to be the most
effective available method of meeting what at times has been a troublesome situation.

un-Masonic, ·unethical, fraudulent, misleading or questionable acts
or practices in connection therewith.
Respectfully submitted,
'vVILLIAM B. OGDEN,
]oHN STEWART Ross,
J. W. DAVEY,
Committee.

572

If these publications are to be permitted to hold themselves out to the
public and to our institution and its members as Masonic in character,
then they should be compelled to meet the high ethical and moral standards
bf our Order or cease their activities.

Representations made to secure advertising, and even the class of
advertising, should be subject ~o the scrutiny of the Grand Master or other
authority appointed for the purpose. 'vVe are of the opinion that in a publication allegedly devoted to the interests of Masonry that, through its
advertising space, the patronage of Masons should not be solicited for
liquor stores, cocktail parlors and other similar businessses, in which, under
the Masonic law of California, our members can have no interest. We also
think that advertising solicitors should not be permitted to solicit advertising on the representation that it is the Masonic duty of our members to
buy space, or upon the representation that the purchase of space will
assist Masonry, or upon the representation that the purchase of space
will insure the patronage of the craft, or that such publication in an
"officiaP' publication or that, in fact, it has any connection whatso~ver
with this Grand Lodge.
Many of our members have been fearful that in effecting a remedy
for a magazine evil that we might thereby give some sort of recognition
or official standing to this appendage to Masonry, and this; we believe,
the craft is loathe to do. The legislation hereinafter proposed can in nowise
be said to give such recognition, nor, perhaps, need it ever be applied to
them if the necessary reforms be made before it becomes necessary to
exercise the power granted.
While it may seem that the wording of the proposed legislation departs
from the purpose for which this committee was appointed, and is perhaps
broader and could cover more subjects than merely publications, a situation
might arise, where such power in the hands o'f the Grand Master might
be the only and much needed remed"y, while, at the same time, in our
·opinion, it will meet any situation that may arise in connection with the
subject of our report.
\Ve therefore approve the recommendation of the Grand Master in
his Annual Message to the last communication of Grand Lodge concerning "Masonic" magazines and publications and recommend that the
following legislation be adopted:
That Article II, Section 34, of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be
amended by adding thereto a clause to follow the clause thereof numbered
"12th" to be worded as follows:
"13th. To issue interdictions requiring the officers and members of constituent Lodges to refrain from traffic with and to cease
and desist from giving aid or support to any business, project,
scheme, plan, individual or concern asserted to be Masonic in character, or using any term, name or words implying a connection
with Masonry, whenever facts presented to the Grand Master prove
to his satisfaction (a) that any such business, project, scheme or
plan is un-Masonic, unethical, fraudulent, misleading or questionable, or (b) that the individual, group, or concern in charge of
or employed in the prosecution, promotion, operation or conduct
of any such business, project, scheme,, or plan has indulged in

573

The resolution recommended in the report was referred to
the Committee on Policy and General . Purposes and the Committee on Jurisprudence; the balance of the report was adopted
as read.

REPORT OF HISTORY COMMITTEE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:

Your Committee on Masonic History submits the following report:
Although there have been no discovies of unusual historical material
during· the past year, a considerable amount of detail work has been accomplished. This has included a thorough check of our files to properly
classify material for easy reference. Listings have also been made where
·e ssentiaf data are missing to assist the committee in future efforts to make
·our historical records as complete as possible.
Most of our information is filed under the name and number of t he
particular Lodge 'with which it is associated. In addition there is rµuch
of a general or specific nature which properly can not be thus filed. Such
material is placed in separate files bearing distinctive titles. There are now
278 of these special files besides one for each of the 683 active and extinct
Lodges of the California jurisdiction.
An attempt has been made to learn more of a number of "phantom"
Lodges which are associated with California's early histor y. Meager
records or tradition indicate that possibly there were fourteen of such
Lodges, as follow:
(1) A Lodge at Honolulu, Sandwich Islands for which a Dispensation
was issued by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts o n September
13, 1848. Nothing further has been learned of . this L odge.
(2) In the same year, the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts issued a Dispensation to Robert F . Parker which authorized him to form a
Lodge at San Francisco. No local accounts of this L odge have been
found. Early records of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts were
destroyed by fire and they have no evidence that either of these
two Lodges ever reported to them after the issuance of the dispensations.
(3) Another Dispensation for a Lodge in San Francisco was granted in
1849 by the Grand Lodge of Indiana. It has not yet been shown that
this Lodge ever functioned.
{4) In May, 1849, the Grand Lodge of Indiana also issued a Dispensation
for: Sierra Nevada Lodge to be located at Centreville, th e present
site of Grass Valley. One report shows that the Lodge had ten
members in 1849, which increased to seventeen members in 1850.
In 1851, after the formation of our own Grand Lodge, the members
of Sierra Nevada Lodge sought to exchange their Indiana· Dispensa-

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tion for California authority. The request was denied by Deputy
Grand Master Hyam. Later the Lodge disbanded without ceremony,
and members joined in a petition to form what is now Madison Lodge
No. 23, at Grass Valley.
(5) A forerunner of San Joaquin Lodge No. 19 was Yale Lodge, meeting
at Stockton under a Dispensation issued by the Grand Lodge of
Florida in 1849. Authority had been vested in Gregory Yale, a
member of Solomon Lqdge No. 20, of Jacksonville, East Florida,
and empowered him "to establish a Lodge in California." After
starting the Lodge at Stockton, Brother Yale moved away, the
Lodge seems to have disbanded, and the brethren assisted in the
formation of the present San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.
(6) On March 5, 1849, the Grand Lodge of Ohio issued a Dispensation
for a Lodge "to be located in the mining district of California." With
such an indefinite location it has been difficult to trace the outcome
of this dispensation. Actual formation seems doubtful for the records
of the Grand Lodge of Ohio reveal no reports of work.
(7) Another Lodge of doubtful existence and vague location was "Richmond Traveling Lodge,'' for which a Dispensation was granted by
the Grand Lodge of Virginia, on December 11, 1849. It would have
been possible for such a Lodge to have met at sundry places and to
have made Masons, but this is questioned since the brethren who carried the Dispensation could hardly have arrived in this State before
the formation of our own Grand Lodge. Virginia Grand Lodge
records shed no further light on this traveling Lodge.
(8) California jurisdiction was unintentionally violated by the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin when the latter granted a Charter dated April
20, 1850, for La Fayette Lodge No. 29, located at Nevada City. The
infringement was without knowledge that the Grand Lodge of California had been formed one day previously. The Lodge opened and
conferred degrees in ignorance of the trespass of territory. On May
7, 1851. Deputy Grand Master Tutt reported that the Lodge "was
working under a Charter from the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin until
. the destruction of Nevada City by fire in March last, when the Charter
was lost, leaving a great deal of unfinished work on hand, which was
considered a good and sufficient reason for granting a Dispensation."
Under that dispensation the Lodge became Nevada Lodge No. 13,
which we still have on our roster.
(9) The Grand Lodge of Illinoislissued a · Dispensation in March, 1849,
which authorized a Lodge "to be opened in any State or Territory
where no Grand Lodge existed." Under that authority, and acting
as DeplitY Grand Master of Illinois, Dr. j. R. Crandall reported the
opened .. a Lodge in Marysville, California, "in the spring of 1850."
On May 4, 1852, Brother Crandall reported that "the Lodge had
continued work until the organization of this Grand Lodge; at which
time the Lodge ceased its labors under such Dispensation, and applied to this Grand Lodge for and was granted a Charter to constitute
and open a Lodge at Marysville, California, under the name of Marysville Lodge No. 9. There is some doubt about the name of this early
Lodge. Sherman in his "Fifty Years of Masonry" says it was known
as "Saville" Lodge. Brother John Whicher, in his "Masonic Beginnings in California and Hawaii," gave the name of "Lavely" to an
early Lodge at Marysville and fixed a different date for the Dispensation, namely, October, 1849. It does not seem probable that these
names referred to different Lodges. It is more likely that the names

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

575

of "Saville" and "Lavely" are erratic interpretations of the name of
Grand Master Lavalle of Illinois who signed the Dispensation for
the Lodge formed by Dr. Crandall at Marysville.
(10) In October, 1849, the Grand Lodge of Illinois is also reported to ·
have issued a Dispensation for Pacific· Lodge to be located at Long's
Bar, with a Brother Morse as Master.. In 1852 a report was made to
our Grand. Lodge that the Lodge had operated .. under the Illinois
' authority, but had closed and dissolved before communication could
be held with it.
(11) Two Lodges which were formed in California prior to ;the establish(12) ment of our Grand Lodge were by authority of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient York Masons of Louisiana. The latter body had been
formed in conflict with the older Grand Lodge of Louisiana and was
therefore considered to be irregular at that time. One of the Lodges
was known as P acific Lodge, located at Benicia; the other was Davy
Crockett Lodge at San Francisco. Pacific Lodge became Benicia
Lodge No. 5 under our jurisdiction. It still has the original Louisiana Dispensation , dated June 5, 1849. The minute book showing that
the Lodge was meeting prior to the formation of the Grand Lodge
of California seems to be the oldest existing record of Masonic meetings in California, and bears a notation, "there is a book before this
one." We would like to locate that older record.
Davy Crockett Lodge became No. 7 when it received its Charter
from the Grand Lodge of California. All of its records seem to have
been destroyed, and those of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana and of
the irregular Grand Lodge of Ancient York Masons of Louisiana
shed no further light on the history of these two Lodges.
(13 ) There is ii tradition, without evidence, that the Grand Lodge of
Texas granted authority for the formation of a California Lodge in
1849. The Dispensation is supposed to have named Charles W .
Creamer, William Robinson and Harry Nott as officers. Robinson and
Nott are known to have been members of Victoria Lodge No. 40
of Texas from which they withdrew at about the time the Dispensation is said to have been granted. Further light would be welcomed
concerning this supposed Lodge.
·
(14) Older members of La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17 claimed that
their Lodge held meetings under French authority prior to the formation of the Grand Lodge of California. We have never been able
to substantiate this tradition. The early beginnings of this Lodge
are shrouded in deep mystery and it is suspected that enthusiastic
French brethren were probably meeting without any authority. It is
a tempting bit of research for some French Masonic scholar.
(15) Finally, there is the ever recurring story of an early San Francisco
Lodge which met in a tent which was being used as a saloon. Some
years ago we interviewed an old brother who told of having sat in such
a Lodge with a whiskey barrel for an altar, and . with gin bottles
for candlesticks. He gave it as his opinion that th.e, Lodge in which
he sat later became California Lodge No. 1. However, we have
recently established that the ship upon which the brother came to .
California did not sail through the Golden Gate until after California
Lodge No. 1 had been duly const_ituted and organized. No San Francisco Lodge has yet stepped forth to claim the honor of having been
born iri a saloon.
It would be interesting to have more information on these "phantom"

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodges of early California and your committee will greatly appreciate
assistance that can be given to clear up the mysteries of their existence.
Last December when Brother John Downen was in Honolulu, he
found that Hawajian Lodge No. 21 possessed a copy of "The Masonic
Record," a hitherto unknown San Francisco publication. The Lodge
kindly loaned the same to us. This particular copy was printed in 1886
and fully described the first official visit of a California Grand Master to
the Hawaiian Islands. It cleared traditional information concerning the
reception of Grand Master Atkinson by the King of the Islands. We have
found that this journal was published monthly and semi-monthly over a
peri9d of. three or four years. In our search for other copies we found one
number of the issues of 1885. In its news columns it tells that 2,000 Masons
of Sonoma County had observed St. John's Day with a picnic at Hassett's
Grove; while at Los Angeles 400 or 500 Masons had held a similar picnic
at Arroyo Seco. At Santa Cruz it is noted that Lodge No. 38 had adopted
a flag to be hung out on the day of meeting. At night a blue lantern
denoted a meeting of the Third Degree, while a red lantern was hung
out for gatherings of the Royal Arch. When the Cogswell Polytechnic
School was recently razed in this city, the cornerstone was found to contain
a copy of "The Ma sonic Record" bearing the same date as the one owned
by Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. This second copy was presented to Grand
Lodge and is now in our files. \Vhile we do not advise that buildings
be torn down in order to examine the contents of their cornerstones, we
urge all brethren to be on the alert for additional copies of such old publications.
In checking the records of Past Grand Masters we find that one brother
had been suspended for non-payment of dues fourteen years prior to his
election as Grand Master, and that there is no rec.ord of his re-instatement.
It is noted that during a period of ninety-one years there is a total of
fifty-one elective Grand Lodge officers who failed to advance to the Grand
Master's chair. There have been two years in which three of the elective
officers were dropped from the line, and thirteen different years when two
officers were not advanced or re-elected. In contrast three of our Grand
Masters have served for four years, two served for three years, and four
were re-elected for a second term. Thus, we have had seventy-four Grand
Masters in ninety-one years.
"Pacific" has been the most popular name for a Lodge in California.
It was proposed as the name of five other Lodges before its adoption by
the present Pacific Lodge No. 136. Three of our Lodges have borne the
name of "Franklin," and also of "LaFayette." Two have been known by
the name of "George Washington," and two have been named "San
Francisco."
While on the subject of names it may be noted that Martinez Lodge
No. 41 in one year conferred the degrees upon two "Bruins" and a "Baer."
Carquinez Lodge No. 337 observed the family spirit recently when the
candidate's father acted as Master, assisted by two other sons as Wardens.
Henry Clay Lodge No. 95 had a candidate who was unusually proficient in his work. When the new brother was ready to take his Third
Degree he was postponed because the Lodge was then "in mourning" on
account of the death of a member. The Lodge was badly in need of a
Senior Deacon, so the waiting brother was taught the work of that officer,
and exemplified the Deacon's work the same evening that he was examined
as to his proficiency in the Fellowcraft degree.
Such interesting stories as these provide diversion for researchers

who are looking for more serious material, or give entertainment to those
who are interested only in the lighter side of our history.
Throughout the years we have received much help from brethren who
were not members of our committee. The Inspectors have been particularly
helpful and we are deeply grateful to them. Special thanks should be expressed to Inspector Lawrence C. Kelley for his extended research and
history of the development of the uniform ritual in California ; and to
Inspector Roy C. Bryan for his continued additions concerning the history
of the Los Angeles area. To Mr. Louis Roesch of San Francisco we are
indebted for the gift of a rare booklet which was printed by his father
as a program of the Masonic Festival which was held in 1898 to raise
funds for the Widow.'s and Orphan's Home. Through Mr. H. L. Thomas
of the Pacific Coast Borax Company we were also presented with the
script of a radio cframa which gave interesting facts in . the life of Brother
Justin Gates.
. In addition to the fitting eulog·y which will be given in special services
for our dearly beloved late Grand Secretary, this committee wishes to
pay a special tribute to the memory of Brother John Whicher. Studious
by nature, discerning in the value of information, sympathetic in temperament, and a true friend, Brother Whicher was ever helpful to us. Added
to his many rare qualities was a retentive memory, enriched with the
advantages that came with years of experience. Our file was located near
his desk and it was a privilege to have been able to work beside him and
there gain valuable information and .goodly counsel. Outside of his own
family, Brother Whicher will be missed by none more than those of our
committee who had the rare opportunity of such close association over a
period of many years. Earth was made better by him and heaven will be
brighter by the presence of Brother John Which er.
An appropriation of $250.00 was made by Grand Lodge for use of this
committee during the past year. Of this we have used $114.09, for which
proper vouchers have been furnished. We recommend that a Committee on
Masonic History be continued, and request an appropriation of $250.00 for
the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,

576

577

LEON 0. WHJTSELL ,
MARK A. SAWRJE,
W.
ARBUCKLE,

c.

WILSON E. NEWLON ,

w. A. CHALFANT,

ROSCOE L. CLARK,
CHARLES E. HAAS,
CHARLES R. INGRAM,
THOMAS NORRIS,
DAVID TULLOCH,

Guv GIFFEN,
MILLARD W . YOU N G,
MARTIN C. ARTHUR.

C ommittcr.

The portion of the report involving Policy was referred to
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and that portion
requesting an appropriation was referred to the Committee on
Finance. The balance of the report was adopted as read.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

578

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

579

ANNUAL RETURNS-1940

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
Name of Lodge

To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an analysis of the consolidated returns from the Lodges of this jurisdiction as filed September
30, 1941.
Gains

Raised ......................... .
Affiliated ......................
Restored ......................

1937

1938

1939

1940

1941

5-yr. av.

3374
948
584

3329
1054

3254
1046
486

2995
1057
456

3105
885
539

3209
996
524

557

Losses

Withdrawn ................
965
Non-payment dues .. 2253
Died ............................ 2105
Dues remitted ............ 4358
Total membership.. 127,301
Net loss.................. -427

1075
2053
1973
4420
127,122
-182

1053
2036
2054
4489
126,739
-383

1128
1804
2105
4515
126,185
-554

1003
1660
2188
3983
125,843
-342

1045
1961
2085
4353
126,633
·-380

Our net loss in membership is again on the decline, the first time in
four years, having dropped from 554 to 342.
We again call your attention to the loss of membership by non-payment
of dues which averaged 1961 for the past five years, compared to the
average gain by restoration, 524, or about twenty-five percent reclaiiped.
The present year's loss is less than the average which is a favorable sign.
Our death loss is gradually increasing as our membership arrives
at the later stage of life.
We wonder what becomes of the members who withdraw from our
order. Do they re-affiliate or are they permanently lost? Having honorably
withdrawn what has become of them? They average over a thousand a
year.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY G. MATHEWSON,
ALBERT F. Ross,
·WILLIAM W . McKEE,
ALDERT C. WOLLENBERG,
RoY BUELL,
FRANK SANDELIN,
HARRY A. BRADFORD.

Committee.

Report was adopted.

1
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
;:;5
26

27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45

46
50
51
55
56

57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68

70

76
78

79
80

California.........·-·······
Western Star.............
Tehama.........·-····--·Benicia.................·-····
Tuolumne.......,...........
Corinthian...........___ _
San Jose.....·-····-····-Yount.. ..·-··········-·····Nevada...·-····-····-···Temple....·-····-·······Eureka.............·-······La Parfaite Union ....
Mountain Shade......_
San Joaquin.......:.....-Washington........._.-Hawaiian...............__ _
Occidental................-.
Madison......................
Mariposa.....·-····-·······
Georgetown................
El Dorado.......·--··-Trinity_····-·-·-····-···Golden Gate..· - - - ·
Gold Hill...·------·Ophir ...........·-········-···
San Diego............____
Howard...........·---····
Santa Cruz.·-·-····--·
Sacramento.:.......·-····
Martinez.....·-·········-··
Los Angeles............- ..
Hiram........................_
Mount Moriah...........
Crescent City......-~....
Texas,..........·-····-····Forbestown.........·-····
Illinoistown......_. ____ _
Suisun........................~
Volcano.......................
Santa Rosa.............._.
Union'···············----·Gravel Range_·········Plumas......- ..·-··-Live Oak................--.
Natoma.................·-···
Amador··················-·Forest.........·-····-···-··
Morning Star.........._.
Enterprise....·-············
Bear Mountain...........
Calaveras....................
Humboldt..................I.one_····-·············--·····

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

368.60
78.60
335.90
88.15
139.50
181.80
296.15
209.65
86.60
72.65

217.60
41.60
186.40
52.40
76.00
100.80
164.40
104.40
49.60
40.40
70.00
49.60
16.00
210.80
201.20
128.80
280.80
84.00
62.40
24.00
70.40
40.00
241.60
36.40
17.60
191.60
71.60
118.80
206.40
87.20
253.20
20.00
146.40
52.00
16.00
19.60
24.80
46.80
14.00
149.20
198.80
17.20
38.80
345.20
49.60
26.40
16.80
163.20
76.40
25.20
28.40
121.60
27.20

272.00
52.00
233.00
65.50
95.00
126.00
205.50
130.50
62.00

125.75
88.60
32.00
370.55
345.95
238.30
490.30
161.50
106.40
60.00
120.40
76.00
449.60
61.15
28.60
344.35
137.35
212.05
385.40
169.70
448.45
36.50
241.90
89.50
29.00
37.85
41.30
80.05
29.75
287.45
360.05
34.95
68.05
592.95
91.60
42.90
27.30
309.20
135.15
42.95
50.15
207.60
50.20

so.so

87.SO
62.00
20.00
263.SO
251.50
161.00
351.00
105.00
78.00
30.00
88.00
50.00
302.00
45.50
22.00
239.50
89.50
148.50
258.00
109.00
316.50
25.00
183.00
65.00
20.00
24.50
31.00
58.50
17.50
186.50
248.50
21.50
48.50
431.50
62.00
33.00
21.00
204.00
95.50
31.50
35.50
152.00
34.00

$25.00

HomeTn

Total

100.00
50.00
300.00
50.00
150.00
225.00
200.00
400.00
75.00
100.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
275.00
175.00
275.00
225.00
200.00
75.00
75.00
50.00
75.00
S7S.OO
25.00

958.20
222.20
1055.30
256.05
460.50
633.60
866.05
844.55
273.20
263.55
3S8.25
300.20
93.00
1119.85
973.65
803.10
1347.10
550.50
321.80
189.00
328.80
241.00
1568.20
168.05
68.20
1100.45
473.45
654.35
1274.80
615.90
1368.15
106.50
596.30
231.50
90.00
131.95
122.10
235.35
136.ZS
973.15
1182.35
148.65
180.35
1644.65
278.20
102.30
65.10
1001.40
407.05
124.65
164.05
581.20
161.40

325.00
175.00
175.00
425.00
2SO.OO
350.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
S0.00
75.00
350.00
375.00
75.00
25.00
275.00
75.00

325.00
100.00
25.00
50.00
100.00
50.00

Name or Lodge

81 Yolo.........:. ______ .........
84 Vesper.........................
87 Naval...........~...............
89 Rose's Bar.........·-·······
91 North Star..................
93 St. Helena...................
95 Henry Clay.................
98 Hornitos............... ·-····
99 Yosemite.....................
101 Clay..............................
103 Oroville.....:.................
104 Lexington...................
106 Arcata......................:...
110 Pajaro.....·-····-··-·······

Ill
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

580

Chico............................
Summit........................
Eden..........................._
Concord,......................
Fidelity........................
Alamo..........................
Sotoyome....·-····-···-~Table Mountain.........
Lafayette.................._.
Hermann.....................
Visalia...............·-·······
Nicolaus...........·---····
Woodbridge................
Sincerity......................
Vacaville.....................
Valley..........................
Pacific..........................
Crockett..:.........-~.......
Curtis.............:.............
Grafton............•........._
Franklin......................
Oriental.......................
Vitruvius.....................
Abell........•.......·-·········
Eel River .....................
Lassen..........................
Molino............-·········Woodland...................
Keystone.................._.
Harmony.....................
Excelsior.....................
Alameda......................
R~d~ood City...........M1ss1on........................
Elk Grove...................
Drytown...............·-····
Antioch...................... _
Phoenix...............~.......
Mendocino..................
Petaluma.....................
Russian River.............

Gf!neral
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Bulldln1

34.80
100.45
507.35
23.75
26.65
50.80
38.80
54.70
175.50
39.65
. 168.05
142.70
128.30
154.35
233.05
24.70
155.95
163.10
338.45
100.40
105.65
78.85
111.85
141.15
221.45
50.70
86.55
53.30
96.70
40.00
375.15
370.20
38.05
44.90
60.30
261.50
69.45
107.75
120.60
109.10
63.05
157.85
15.60
9.10
309.00
90.65
189.25
440.15
81.80
16.25
l06.10'
316.45
74.50
185.15
62.20

20.80
61.20
247.60
14.00
16.40
28.80
20.80
31.20
100.00
24.40
94.80
71.20
72.80
87.60
118.80
15.20
81.20
93.60
197.20
54.40
56.40
35.60
67.60
76.40
125.20
31.20
42.80
32.80
55.20
24.00
220.40
219.20
22.80
26.40
32.80
156.00
37.20
62.00
65.60
61.60
38.80
91.60
9.60
5.60
176.00
48.40
106.00
260.40
44.80
10.00
53.60
173.20
44.00
100.40
35.20

26.00
76.50
309.50
17.50
20.50
36.00
26.00
39.00
125.00
30.50
118.50
89.00
91.00
109.50
148.50
19.00
101.50
117.00
246.50
68.00
70.50
44.50
84.50
95.50
156.50
39.00
53.50
41.00
69.00
30.00
275.50
274.00
28.50
33.00
41.00
195.00
46.50
77.50
82.00
77.00
48.50
114.50
12.00
7.00
220.00
60.50
132.50
325.50
56.00
12.50
67.00
216.50
55.00
125.50
44.00

$25.00

Home Tax

50.00
1075.00

50.00
. 50.00
125.00
100.00
275.00
75.00
100.00
325.00
225.00
125.00
175.00
125.00
125.00
175.00
25.00
75.00
225.00
175.00
100.00
25.00
150.00
75.00
25.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
125.00
50.00
25.00

200.00
100.00
175.00
125.00
100.00
150.00
350.00
25.00
250.00
25.00

Tot•l

81.60
288.15
2139.45
55.25
63.55
165.60
135.60
124.90
525.50
94.55
481.35
577.90
367.10
451.45
825.35
58.90
563.65
498.70
957.15
347.80
357.55
333.95
288.95
388.05
728.15
120.90
357.85
127.10
320.90
119.00
1021.0S
938.40
114.35
104.30
209.10
687.50
228.15
322.25
393.20
297.70
150.35
388.95
37.20
21.70
905.00
299.55
602.75
1151.05
282.60
38.75
376.70
1056.15
198.50
661.05
166.40

~

182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
2HI
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243

Name of Lodi·e

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Arbuckle.....................
Clear Lake..................
Sierra Valley......- ......
Claiborne.....................
Evening Star..............
Keith.................- .........
Oakland.......................
Northern Light..........
Marin .....................·-···
Santa Barbara............
Ferndale......................
Mt. View.....................
Buckeye.......................
San Simeon .................
Wilmington................
Hartley........................
Truckee.................- ....
Silveyville...................
Pentalpha....•...............
Confidence..................
Salinas.........................
Olivet......................- ...
Stanislaus....................
Anaheim......................
Rio Vista...............•.....
King Davids...............
Friendship...................
San Benito................_
So. San Francisco......
San Buenaventura ....
Oak Grove..................
Doric...................:........
Monterey.....................
Mosaic.........................
Speranza I ta! iana ......
Downey........................
Inyo........- ....................
Roseville .....................
Bakersfield................_
Brooklyn.....................
San Mateo.................Athens.........................
Solano...:......................
North Butte..........·-···
Covelo........................ _
Janesville....................
Calistoga.................- ..
Hope.....................- ..~.
Surprise Valley........_
Hills Ferry.................
Guadalupe...................
Colusa..........................
Santa Ana.....·-···········
Magnolia..............._....
Eucalyptus..................

59.45
29.65
23.80
36.15
35.30
88.30
508.35
61.75
299.30
137.95
80.05
138.05
113.50
74.40
190.75
111.35
65.10
80.35
349.70
15.60
214.20
55.65
238.60
152.60
88.40
213.85
350.05
93.55
156.35
201.95
354.00
296.20
108.00
103.10
241,45
140.95
60.10
189.75
317.20
356.80
156.35
87.15
332.85
77.75
38.85
39.35
51.50
41.30
42.75
88.05
32.50
102.90
292.65
165.85
175.25

29.20
16.40
12.80
20.40
16.80
48.80
295.60
30.00
168.80
8 1.20
46.80
70.80
44.00
38.40
110.00
63.20
37.60
47.60
207.20
9.60
123.20
32.40
137.60
89.60
38.40
11 5.60
198.80
50.80
87.60
113.20
200.00
171.20
56.00
53.60
133.20
73.20
29.60
102.00
171.20
204.80
87.60
44.40
163.60
46.00
19.60
23.60
28.00
24.80
22.00
38.80
20.00
58.40
160.40
91.60
98.00

36.50
20.50
16.00
25.50
21.00
61.00
369.50
37.50
211.00
101.50
58.50
88.50
55.00
48.00
137.50
79.50
47.00
59.50
259.00
12.00
154.00
40.50
172.00
11 2.00
48.00
144.50
248.50
63.50
109.50
141.50
250.00
214.00
70.00
67.00
166.50
91.50
37.00
127.50
214.00
256.00
109.50
55.50
204.50
57.50
24.50
29.50
35.00
31.00
27.50
48.50
25.00
73.00
200.50
114.50
122.50

581
$25. 00

Home Tax

Totnl

100.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
50.00
75.00
275.00
125.00
225.00
50.00
75.00
225.00
300.00
75.00
125.00
75.00
50.00

225.15
91.55
77.60
107.05
123.10
273.10
1448.45
254.25
904.10
370.65
260.35
522.35
512.50
235.80
563.25
329.45
199.70
187.45
915.90
37.20
616.40
153.55
698.20
454.20
374.80
748.95
997.35
282.85
478.45
581.65
1054.00
831.40
409.00
398.70
766.15
580.65
251.70
644.25
11 02.40
1017.60
453.45
312.05
1450.95
231.25
132.95
92.45
164.50
97.10
167.25
375.35
77.50
309.30
878.55
496.95
545.75

100.00
125.00
25.00
150.00
100.00
200.00
275.00
200.00
75.00
125.00
125.00
250.00
150.00
175.00
175.00
225.00
275.00
125.00
225.00
400.00
200.00
100.00
125.00
750.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
75.00
200.00
75.00
225.00
125.00
150.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

582
Name or Lodge

244
245
246
247
248
2SO
2S3
2S4
2SS
2S6
2S8
2S9
260
261
262
264
26S
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
27S
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
29S
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
30S
306
307

Alcatraz......................
Laurel ..........................
Pomona.......................
Fresno.............•.....•......
Alturas........................
Adin..............., .............
Landmark...................
Reading.......................
Welcome.....................

Lodi.....,........................
Penrhyn..................._.
Evergreen...................
King Solomons..........
Tuscan.........................
Lompoc........................
Hesperian...................
Orland..........................
North East.................
Galt..............................
Durant.........................
Olive Branch..............
Snow !lifountain.........
Pasadena.....................
Anchor.......................~
Arroyo.........................
Oakdale.................. _ ..
Selma................:.......••.
So. California.............
Hanford.~...........:........
Madera........................
Mount Shasta...._ ......
Callayomi....................
South West.....•.....•.....
San Miguel................•
Paso Robles ................
Winnedumah..............
Maxwell................••....
Elsinore.......................
East Gate....................
Santa Paula................
Los Gatos....................
Orange Grove............
Traver.........................
Mt. Jackson............•..•
Silver Gate..................
Dunsmuir....................
Liberty.........................
Redlands ....................•
Ontario........................
Santa Lucia................
Porterville..................
Reedley...........••...........
Azusa................•....•..•..
Ashlar.......................•..
Santa Monica.............

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

300.25
146.85
185.10
400.3S
110.3S
38.70
5S.90
123.20
80.55
194.0S
64.7S
302.90
363.3S
Sl.3S
76.8S
136.35
68.2S
43.8S
41.6S
351.2S
134.6S
29.00
28S.SS
189.85
65.35
78.4S
98.00
311.00
98.20
117.30
33.55
31.8S
148.30
29.2S
71.90
84.20
32.8S
67.3S
498.SS
172.2S
1S2.70
126.40
65.3S
78.SO
389.60
134.80
IS0.80
229.4S
139.90
60.20
223.65
82.30
107.8S
121.3S
1S6.9S

178.00
67.50
109.60
223.60
55.60
23.20
34.40
67.20
42.80
110.80
38.00
170.40
21S.60
31.60
43.60
79.60
42.00
19.60
24.40
210.00
72.40
16.00
162.80
99.60
31.60
4S.20
S6.00
176.00
Sl.20
64.80
18.80
19.60
64.80
18.00
42.40
43.20
19.60
39.60
282.80
98.00
79.20
70.40
39.60
44.00
217.60·
76.80
84.80
125.20
82.40
3S.20
120.40
48.80
S9.60
63.60
89.20

222.50
84.50
137.00
279.SO
69.SO
29.00
43.00
84.00
53.SO
138.SO
47.SO
213.00
269.SO
39.SO
S4.SO
99.50
S2.SO
24.SO
30.SO
262.SO
90.SO
20.00
203.SO
124.SO
39.SO
S6.SO
70.00
220.00
64.00
81.00
23.SO
24.SO
81.00
22.SO
S3.00
S4.00
24.SO
49.SO
353.SO
122.SO
99.00
88.00
49.SO
SS.00
272.00
96.00
106.00
156.SO
103.00
44.00
150.SO
61.00
74.SO
79.SO
111.50

583

GRAND IOIJGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

125.00
275.00
50.00
32S.OO
IS0.00

825.75
573.95
481.70
1228.4S
385.4S
90.90
133.30
399.40
251.85
S43.3S
200.2S
961.30
973.4S
122.4S
274.95
36S.45
162.7S
187.9S
121.SS
923.7S
447.SS
90.00
8Sl.8S
663.9S
336.4S
20S.1S
299.00
907.00
388.40
363.10
100.8S
75.9S
694.10
69.7S
192.30
281.40
101.9S
181.4S
1S09.8S
S17.7S
SSS.90
409.80
179.4S
2S2.SO
1204.20
407.60
Sl6.60
861.IS
37S.30
139.40
769.SS
217.10
391.9S
414.4S
482.6S

12S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
S0.00
27S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
S0.00
100.00
2S.OO
100.00
IS0.00
2S.OO
200.00
2SO.OO
200.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
200.00
17S.OO
100.00
2S.OO
400.00
25.00
100.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
37S.OO
12S.OO
22S.OO
12S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
32S.OO
100.00
17S.OO
3SO.OO
S0.00
27S.OO
2S.OO
IS0.00
IS0.00
12S.OO

308
309
310
312
. 313
314
31S
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
32S
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
33~

33S
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
J4S
346
347
348
349
3Sl
3S2
353
3S4
3SS
3S6
3S7
3S8
3S9
360
361
362
363
36S
366
367

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Monrovia.....................
Delano.........................
Sisson..........................
Los Banos..............••..•
Tehachapi..................•
Temescal..........._........
Norwal)c......................
Sanger.........................
Fallbrook....................
Emmanuel...................
Hollenbeck.................
South Gate............••:_
Alisa!.......................- .•
Alhambra...................:
Whittier......................
Corona.........·-············
Consuelo......................
Needles........................
Long Beach..................
Redondo Beach..........
Vallee de France........
Kilauea........................
Pacific Grove..............
S:in Pedro.......••...•••••Alta..............................
Covina...................•.•.West Gate...................
Fruitvale.....................
Carquinez................-.
San Jacinto.................
Fullerton.....................
Oxnard........................
San Fernando...........•.
Starr King..........._.....
Brentwood..................
Palo Alto...................•.
McKinley....................
San Bernardino.........
Sequoia........................
Palestine................•.•...
Sunset.....................•.••.
Pinole..........................
Presidio...................._
Hollywood..................
Mill Valley...............••
Buena Park.................
Golden State...............
Loyalton....................•.
San Francisco•....- ...Fort Bragg..........•.•••_
Charity........···--···-Berkeley......................
Will its....................Las Palmas.................
South Pasadena.........

137.10
121.05
49.60
7S.2S
106.30
98.SO
8S.10
144.0S
38.IS
S2.1S
679.7S
383.0S
68.65
267.7S
301.0S
269.6S
99.SS
1S3.8S
324.90
149.20
74.IS
121.70
104.IS
291.8S
43.30
127.30
4S7.8S
503.00
99.30
S0.80
209.0S
164.80
186.00
334.70
49.40
298.90
210.SO
342.SS
S84.7S
319.70
267.00
82.70
328.80
473.SO
197.SO
82.0S
S20.70
44.8S
237.8S
S8.SO
80.90
32S.40
81.90
444.7S
292.SO

77.60
62.80
25.60
42.00
S6.80
S2.00
4S.60
70.80
20.40
28.40
406.00
222.80
40.40
IS0.00
174.80
IM.40
S8.80
83.60
186.40
7S.20
44.40
71.20
60.40
163.60
24.80
72.80
267.60
280.00
S6.80
28.80
126.80
84.80
96.00
199.20
30.40 .
170.40
116.00
186.80
334.00
191.20
144.00
47.20
196.80
276.00
116.00
46.80
311.20
27.60
131.60
36.00
42.40
182.40
S0.40
238.00
172.00

97.00
78.50
32.00
S2.SO
71.00
6S.OO
S7.00
88.SO
2S.50
3S.SO
S07.SO
278.50

so.so

187.SO
218.SO
200.50
73.SO
104.SO
233.00
94.00
SS.SO
89.00
7S.SO
204.SO
31.00
91.00
334.SO
3S0.00
71.00
36.00
1S8.SO
106.00
120.00
249.00
38.00
213.00
14S.OO
233.SO
417.SO
239.00
180.00
S9.00
246.00
34S.OO
14S.OO
58.50
389.00
34.SO
164.SO
4S.OO
S3.00
228.00
63.00
297.SO
21S.OO

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

75.00
175.00
S0.00
100.00
12S.OO
100.0075.00
2SO.OO
50.00
S0.00
200.00
27S.OO
2S.OO
27S.OO
12S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
200.00
2SO.OO
27S.OO

386.70
437.35
157.20
269.7S
3S9.10
31S.SO
262.70
SS3.3S
134.0S
166.0S
1793.2S
1,159.35
184.5S
880.2S
819.3S
705.S5
306.85
S41.9S
994.30
S93.40
174.0S
331.90
31S.OS
909.9S
124.10
366.10
1284.9S
1483.00
2S2.10
140.60
Sl9.3S
SOS.60
6S2.00
882.90
117.80
857.30
S96.SO
l 112.8S
1711.25
824.90
716.00
288.90
896.60
1319.SO
508.SO
262.3S
144S.90
131.9S
683.9S
139.SO
2Sl.30
1010.80
l 9S.30
160S.2S
804.SO

50.00
7S.OO
2SO.OO
25.00
7S.OO
22S.OO
350.00
25.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
150.00
2SO.OO
100.00
17S.OO
12S.OO
3S0.00
375.00
7S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
12S.OO
22S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
22S.OO
2S.OO
lS0.00
7S.OO
27S.OO
62S.OO
12S.OO

584

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name or Lodge

368
369
370
371
372
373
374

375
376
377
378
379
380
381
332

383
384
335
387
.388
339
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397

399
400
401
402
403

40i
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423

Unify............................
Ocean Park ................
Amity..........................
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..................
Gardena .......................
West'Los Angeles.
J ewe!................ ·-···-···-·
Richmond ....................
Francis Drake ............
Artesia .........................
Mizpah ....................... _
Fillmore......................
Huntington Beach .....
Oceanside ....................
Highland Park..........
Orosi ............................
El Centro....................
Dinuba .........................
Coalinga..............•...,...
Parnassus ....................
Palos Verdes ..............
Tmpeiial... ....................
East Belt ................ ~....
West Lake..................
Balder ..................
University................._
Turlock.......................
Apollo ..........................
Rising Light ...............
Fraternity...................
Burlingame .................
Bay View ....................
Brawley.......................
Y erba Buena ..............
Glendora .....................
Moneta.................... ___
Burbank ......................
La Mesa ......................
Sierra Madre..............
Honolulu................._...
Charter Rock. .............
Perris ......................_...
Calexico ................- ....
W aucoba .. ·-·······-········
Arlington....................
Silver Trowel............
Lindsay.......................
Clovis...........................
Elysian......................_
Upland ...................... _.
Kerman ... :...................
Inglewood ...................
Eagle Rock. ................
York...........·-·············"

585

- GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Horne
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

263.40
210.00
312.00

134.40
120.00
176.00

168.00
150.00
220.00

400.00
225.00
225.00

965.80
705.00
933.00

272.15
100.25
161.20
88.20
359.70
125.30
50.05
250.15
106.25
164.05
75.15
285.30
56.70
192.05
112.60
186.55
416.20
343.10
54.20
49.95
654.70
306.85
328.25
147.30
229.65
427.95
248.05
267.20
230.60
72.80
316.75
62. 15
409.55
236.45
95.20
50.85
167.05
243.50
51.80
82.00
27.30
202.90
185.85
93.10
164.25
270.20
94.50
40.15
227.55
178.65
134.50

140.40
58.00
. 75.20
51.20
215.20
72.80
30.80
132.40
58.00
94.80
44.40
160.80
31.20
110.80
65.60
98.80
243.20
197.60
27.20
25.20
367.20
179.60
186.00
72.80
136.40
209.20
142.80
147.20
121.60
44.80
174.00
36.40
234.80
109.20
51.20
27.60
86.80
140.00
28.80
48.00
16.80
114.40
107.60
53.60
90.00
155.20
52.00
20.40
114.80
96.40"
68.00

175.50
72.50
94.00
64.00
269.00
91.00
38.50
165.50
72.50
118.50
55.50
201.00
39.00
138.50
82.00
123.50
304.00
247.00
34.00
31.50
459.00
224.50
232.50
91.00
170.50
261.50
178.50
184.00
152.00
56.00
217.50
45 .50
293.50
136.50
64.00
34.50
108.50
175.00
36.00
60.00
21.00
143.00
134.50
67.00
112.50
194.00
65 .00
25 .50
143.50
120.50
85.00

450.00
75.00
400.00
25.00
75.00
75 .00

1038.05
305.75
730.40
228.40
918.90
364.10
119.35
923.05
361.75
502.35
225.05
872.10
176.90
566.35
335.20
658.85
1138.40
937.70
240.40
206.65
2080.90
785.95
971.75
536.10
636.55
1673.65
669.35
848.40
779.20
173.60
1058.25
169.05
1187.85
1157.15
310.40
162.95
562.35
708.50
216.60
215.00
65.10
635.30
502.95
288.70
491.75
769.40
311.50
161.05
860.85
570.55
537.50

375 .00
125.00
125.00
50.00
225.00
50.00
125.00
75.0P
250.00
175.00
150.00
125.00
100.00
600.00
75.00
225.00
225 .00
100.00
775.00
100.00
250.00
275.00
350.00
25.00
250.00
675.00
100.00
50.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
25.00
175.00
75.00
75.00
125.00
150.00
100.00
75.00
375.00 .
175.00
250.00

424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471

472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Horne
Maintenance

Horne
Building

$25.tO
. Horne Tai

Exeter ... ·--··················
Holtville......................
Midway..........- ...........
chino Valley ...............
San Dimas..................
Pittsburg....·-·········-·-··
McC\oud......................
Alpha............ ~..............
Hammonton.............. _
Maricopa ................- ..
Fairmou11t. ..:...............
Claremont...................
Lancaster....................
Acacia..........................
Tyrian ..........-----······---·
Standard ..........·-····-·-·
Coronado................___
Blackmer.....................
Schofield.....................
Carpinteria.:...............
Wilshire.·-·--···-·-·······La Puente................- •.
Torrance...·-····-·········
Mt. Diablo ................_.
Park.....................•.......
Van Nuys ....................
Montebello ..................
San Pasqual................
Bethlehem..............•....
Crocker .......................
Golden W esL. ............
Ramona ................- .....
Henry S. Orme..........
Riverbank....................
Mount Oso..................
Argonaut.....................
Paul Revere. ........ _
Morgan Hill...............
Alta Vista...................
Center.......................•..
Libertas ....._................
Culver City................•
Rock ridge .........._____
Yorba Linda.......... ___
Lincoln ......................Delta ..........................Maui .............................
Blythe.......... ~...............
Victory ... ·-·············-·
America......... ·-····-·-·
Coachella................- ...
Temblor .......................
Thousand Oaks ....·-···
Golden Rule................
Fellowship.......... :.......

105.60
52.00
229.55
36.45
76.30
107.60
69.30
257.50
45.95
100.55
307.75
59.80
90.10
38.35
72.15
209.25
137.80
357.80
156.70
50.80
325.45
45 .95
141.15
96.85
279.05
187.05
173.95
238.15
192.55
196.35
311.95
148.05
343.75
49.75
150.75
237.30
297.15
61.10
186.70
232.10
194.85
128.60
249.90
53.95
169.15
211.75
98.50
49.85
133.80
254.65
59.25
74.50
211.85
250.55
133.90

57.60
32.00
130.80
21.20
40.80
57.60
40.80
148.00
25.20
58.80
182.00
36.80
45.60
23.60
36.40
114.00
68.80
196.80
79.20
28.80
189.20
25.20
76.40
59.60
158.80
102.80
89.20
132.40
114.80
111.60
177.20
78.80
190.00
30.00
78.00
136.80
172.40
37.60
103.20
133.60
99.60
73.60
138.40
33.20
100.40
118.00
52.00
19.60
76.80
136.40
34.00
44.00
115.60
146.80
74.40

72.00
40.00
163.50
26.50
51.00
72.00
51.00
185.00
31.50
73.50
227.50
46.00
57.00
29.50
45.50
142.50
86.00
246.00
99.00
36.00
236.50
31.50
95.50
74.50
198.50
128.50
111.50
165.50
143.50
139.50
221.50
98.50
237.50
37.50
97.50
171.00
215.50
47.00
129.00
167.00
124.50
92.00
173.00
41.50
125.50
147.50
65.00
24.50
96.00
170.50
42.50
55 .00
144.50
183.50
93.00

125.00
200.00
25 .00
200.00
175.00
25.00
175.00
25.00
75.00
150.00
125.00
150.00
200.00
275.00
375.00
275.00
100.00
300.00
50.00
175.00
150.00
175.00
200.00
175.00
25.00
125.00
200.00
200.00
300.00
150.00
100.00
150.00
25.00
150.00
150.00
400.00
100.00
225.00
25.00
175.00
100.00
200.00
100.00
325.00
75.00
25 .00
175.00
125.00
100.00

Total

360.20
124.00
723.85
109.15
368.10
412.20
186.10
765.50
127.65
307.85
867.25
142.60
317.70
91.45
304.05
665.75
567.60
1175.60
609.90
215.60
1,051.15
152.65
488.05
230.95
786.35
593.35
574.65
711.05
475.85
572.45
910.65
525.35
1071.25
117.25
476.25
645 .10
835.05
170.70
568.90
682.70
818.95
394.20
786.30
128.65
420.05
652.25
315.50
293.75
406.60
886.55
210.75
198.50
646.95
705.85
401.30

586

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

481 Mt. Davidson............•
203.85
482 ' Clarence F. Smith......
174.30
483 Bell.. ..............·-····-·····
160.55
484 Albert Pike...........•.....
136.40
485 Chowchilla..................
58.10
486 Caledonia.....................
202.65
487 Vallejo.................•.•.. _.
173.20
488 Patterson.....................
49.00
489 East Bay....,.................
169.15
490 Corcoran .....................
49.15
491 Woodstock ..................
123.20
492 Garvanza.....•...............
120.40
493 Atascadero ................•
43.00
494 Acorn ...........................
247.10
495 Lebanon...................•••.
197.85
496 Riverdale ...................•.
35.45
497 Fremont.........•.............
246.25
498 Stockton............•........•
84.65
499 Capital City....••...........
169.30
500 Roosevelt .....................
95.40
501 'vV estwood ....................
143.05
502 Harbor.........................
118.65
64.85
503 Point. .........•................•
504 Seaside..............•.......... • 198.25
505 Silver Cord................•
208.90
506 Mount Olive......•.......•
467.35
507 El Segundo...............•
113.25
508 Joppa ..........................•.
46.10
179.65
509 Benjamin Franklin ....
71.35
510 Cupertino....................
511 Sunnyvale........•.......•..
77.80
128.05
512 Palms...........................
513 Cahuenga..................•.
189.90
514 Argonne.........·-·········
212.95
237.30
515 Vermont Square........
115.90
516 Taft........................•.••..
144.65
517 Mount Vernon ...........
103.10
518 La Jolla .......................
186.15
519 Euclid..........................
241.70
520 Ionic.............................
152.40
521 Piedmont..................•..
184.50
522 Sunrise........................
159.60
523 Bellflower..•..•.......... _.
68.65
524 Catalina Island.....•.•.•.
193.60
525 George Washington ..
526 Bay City......................
146.65
527 Covenant....................•
182.45
156.00
528 Beverly Hills....•.........
175.10
529 Loyalty......................•.
284.35
530 Sun Garden ............•.•..
86.75
53 1 Alexandria............•••...
53.10
532 Smyrna ........................
121.15
533 Azure ...........................
69.40
534 Forest Hill.....•............
88.20
535 Alexander Hamilton.

107.60
96.80
82.80
78.40
29.60
80.40
91.20
24.00
100.40
28.40
67.20
·62.40
24.00
141.60
115.60
21.20
122.00
48.40
80.80
54.40
"78.80
64.40
35.60
114.00
114.40
239.60
66.00
21.60
80.40
31.60
44.80
70.80
114.40
129.20
136.80
66.40
80.40
45.60
92.40
119.20
86.40
76.00
65.60
40.40
105.60
80.40
101.20
88.00
93.60
143.60
46.00
21.60
68.40
38.40
51.20

134.50
121.00
103.50
98.00
37.00
100.50
114.00
30.00
125.50
35.50
84.00
78.00
30.00
177.00
144.50
26.50
152.50
60.50
101.00
68.00
98.50
80.50
44.50
142.50
143.00
299.50
82.50
27.00
100.50
39.50
56.00
88.50
143.00
161.50
171.00
83.00
100.50
57.00
115.50
149.00
108.00
95.00
82.00
50.50
132.00
100.50
126.50
110.00
117.00
179.50
57.50
27.00
85.50
48.00
64.00

Name or Lodge

587

G.RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

225.00
150.00
325.00
75.00
125.00
650.00
300.00
75.00
75.00
25.00
100.00
175.00
50.00
200.00
125.00

670.95
542.10
671.85
387.80
249.70
1033.55
678.40
178.00
470.05
138.05
374.40
435.80
147.00
765.70
582.95
83.15
945.75
243.55
626.10
267.80
445.35
338.55
219.95
604.75
691.30
1756.45
336.75
169.70
785.55
292.45
253.60
462.35
472.30
528.65
670.10
340.30
400.55
455.70
719.05
959.90
471.80
905.50
782.20
184.55
606.20
477.55
585.15
479.00
635.70
1082.45
290.25
251.70
325.05
230.80
253.40

425.00
50.00
275.00
50.00
125.00
75.00
75.00
150.00
225.00
750.00
75.00
75.00
425.00
150.00
75.00
175.00
25.00
25.00
125.00
75.00
75.00
250.00
325.00
450.00
125.00
550.00
475.00
25.00
175.00
150.00
175.00
125.00
250.00
475.00
100.00
150.00
50.00
75.00
50.00

Name or Lodge

536 Seal Rock................- ..
537 Utopia ...........•..........._.
538 Ascot .................•..........
539 Belvedere....................
540 Queen Beach...............
541 H. M. Stephens.....•....
542 Lankershim .................
543 Signal .........•...............•
544 Glendale.......................
545 Jona than ..........- ..........
546 San Gabriel.................
547 Arcadia.........................
548 Triangle...................••.
549 Justice .......................•..
550 Seaport. .......................
551 Lakeshore...................
552 Semper Virens ...........
554 Educator.....................
555 White Pine...........•.....
556 Fairfax........................
557 Hermosa ......................
558 • Pt. Firmin............ ~ ......
559 Craftsman...................
560 Plymouth....................
561 E. San Diego .............:
562 Pyramid....................•.
563 South Park.................
564 Foothill .......................
565 West Adams ...............
566 James A. Garfield......
567 Searchlight.................
568 Park Blvd...................
569 Chateau Thierry........
570 Military Service........
571 Francis K. Shattuck.
572 James Madison ..........
573 Hillcrest......................
574 S. W. Hackett ............
575 Fort Crook................•.
576 El Cajon Valley.........
577 Sunnyside ................- •.
578 Progressive................
579 Warren G. Harding ..
580 Santa Maria...............
581 Security.......................
582 Rialto .................•........•
583 Wasco ...........................
584 Harding.......................
585 Manchester.................
586 Garden Grove .............
587 Valley Forge..............
588 El Sereno....................
589 Kauai.. .........................
590 Compass......................
591 .Escalon........•......•........

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

96.20
335.40
154.50
128.90
88.45
187.45
204.45
180.75
223.95
107.30
101.70
88.35.
81.95
108.45
103.40
118.45
104.75
176.35
· 56.40
76.55
75.85
181.55
167.45
169.50
255.55
142.85
233.75
193.70
154.45
102.65
206.70
163.35
148.65
184.60
120.25
115.05
35.10
132.65
60.35
44.70
186.00
207.30
137.80
33.55
153.25
56.25
. 108.95
111.25
141.85
62.90
156.35
141.35
65.10
97.60
52.40

51.20
182.40
84.00
74.40
45.20
109.20
101.20
102.00
121.20
56.80
55.20
47.60
41.20
61.20
62.40
69.20
54.00
95.60
30.40
42.80
43.60
98.80
85.20
76.00
114.80
75.60
118.00
95.20
77.20
56.40
119.20
87.60
80.40
97.60
66.00
62.80
21.60 .
72.40
31.60
23.20
96.00
112.liO
68.80
18.80
82.00
34.00
57.20
58.00
83.60
34.40
79.60
71.60
37.60
49.60
30.40

64.00
228.00
105.00
93.00
56.50
136.50
126.50
127.50
151.50
71.00
69.00
59.50
51.50
76.50
78.00
86.50
67.50
119.50
38.00
53.50
54.50
123.50
106.50
95.00
143.50
94.50
147.50
119.00
96.50
70.50
149.00
109.50
100.50
122.00
82.50
78.50
27.00
90.50
39.50
29.00
120.00
141.00
86.00
23.50
102.50
42.50
71.50
72.50
104.50
43.00
99.50
89.50
47.00
62.00
38.00

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

100.00
375.00
250.00
75.00
125.00
75.00
350.00
125.00
275.00
150.00
150.00
125.00
125.00
75.00

311.40
1120.80
593.50
371.30
315.15
508.15
782.15
535.25
771.65
385.10
375.90
320.45
299.65
321.15
243.80
324.15
401.25
566.45
199.80
222.85
248.95
553.85
609.15
790.50
1,213.85
462.95
899.25
782.90
578.15
254.55
574.90
585.45
529.55
679.20
393.75
431.35
83.70
445.55
181.45
196.90
727.00
636.10
567.60
150.85
537.75
132.75
412.65
391.75
404.95
190.30
585.45
502.45
174.70
384.20
145.80

50.00
175.00
175.00
75.00
50.00
75.00
150.00
250.00
450.00
700.00
150.00
400.00
375.00
250.00
25.00
100.00
225.00
200.00
275.00
125.00
175.00
150.00
50.00
100.00
325.00
175.00
275.00
75.00
200.00
175.00
150.00
75.00
50.00
250.00
200.00
25.00
175.00
25.00

588
Name of Lod&e

Tujunga.......................
All States....................
Service................._......
Alexander G. Bell......
Guardian.....................
Pearl Harbor.............
Carmelita. ...............•-.
Lynwood .....................
Grizzly.~ .......................
Melrose........................
Dimond..........._...........
Jubilee..........................
Glassell Park..............
Sojourner....................
Granada .......................
Provident....................
Elmhurst. ....................
Canoga.,......................
Temple City...............
Three Pillars..............
Larchmont................,. .
Hemet ........................~.
R. E. Dolley...............
Big Bear......................
Southland .............. ....
Neptune.......................
Point Loma....._..........
The Gardens...............
Atwater.......................
Menorah......................
Fortitude.....................
Angeles Mesa............
Chula Vista.................
Lamanda Park...........
Truth .........................
Fairview......................
Ingleside......................
Benevolence................
Normal Heights........
Poinsettia....................
Victorville...................
Riverside .....................
John Marshall ............
Palisades.....................
Indian Rock. ...............
Composite...................
Veritas......................James A. Foshay.......
La Cumbre..................
Alta Loma..................
Lomita.........................
A. F. E. Irwin............
Metropolitan..............
Hawthorne............,.....
648 Damascus....................

592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Bulldln&

Home Tax

Total

100.80
200.65
196.15
120.55
205.50
200.95
134.35
101.95

52.80
104.40
116.40
66.80
100.00
89.20
71.60
49.20
38.00
45.20
72.00
63.60
90.80
29.20
118.80
. 66.00
50.40
44.00
45.20
76.00
79.60
34.40
28.40
20.00
68.80 ·
45.60
43.60
78.80
67.20
132.80
51.20
124.00
40.00
40.40
65.20
39.60
38.40
77.60
72.40
121.60
32.80
66.00
38.40
75.60
48.00
57.20
34.00
41.20
34.80
90.40
36.40
65.20
29.20
26.40
86.00

66.00
130.50
145.50
83.50
125.00
111.50
89.50
61.50
47.50
56.50
90.00
79.50
113.50
36.50
148.50
82.50
63.00
55.00
56.50
95.00
99.50
· 43.00
35.50
25.00
86.00
57.00
54.50
98.50
84.00
166.00
64.00
155.00
50.00
50.50
81.50
49.50
48.00
97.00
90.50
152.00
41.00
82.50
48.00
94.50
60.00
71 .50
42.50
51.50
43.50
113.00
45.50
81.50
36.50
33.00
107.50

125.00
275.00
75.00
125.00
450.00
525.00
225.00
200.00
50.00
125.00
100.00
100.00
300.00
50.00
250.00
450.0'1
75.00
50.00
100.00
175.00
125.00
50.00
25.00
·25.00
250.00
100.00
400.00
175.00
100.00
550.00
150.00
125.00
100.00
75 .00
50.00
100.00
50.00
225.00
225.00
150.00
50.00
150.00
125.00
325.00
125.00
225.00
75 .00
175.00
100.00
125.00
175.00
100.00
25.00
150.00
75.00

344.60
710.55
533.05
395.85
880.50
926.65
520.45
412.65
203.25
314.15
393.00
365.45
685.85
167.15
728.35
749.75
281.30
224.50
285.15
486.50
445.45
189.30
138.05
104.50
542.60
288.70
604.95
504.35
372.40
1,124.60
360.40
622.50
268.00
237.55
307.65
266.45
206.80
550.70
526.55
650.20
183.10
415.75
283.80
642.95
318.00
470.65
216.75
361.65
238.85
488.30
333.05
363.65
141.15
268.30
422.25

67.75
87.45
131.00
122.35
181.55
51.45
211.05
151.25
92.90
75.50
83.45
140.50
141.35
61.90
49.15
34.50
137.80
86.10
106.85
152.05
121.20
275.80
95.20
218.50
78.00
71.65
110.95

77.35
70.40
151.10
138.65
226.60
59.30
117.25
72.40
147.85
85.00
116.95
65.25
93.95
60.55
159.90
76.15
116.95
50.45
58.90
153.75

$25.00

Name of Lodge

649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
. 658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667

668
669

670
671
672
673
674
675
676

677
678
679
680
681
682
683

Florence........:.............
La Brea........................
Menlo Park.................
Crescenta Valley........
Fontana,...._................
Jordan...............·-····-··
Monte Vista. ..............
Citrol ...........................
John D. Spreckels .....
Livingston...................
La Habra....................
Baldwin Park.............
Malta...........................
Henry Knox ...............
Ojai. ..........................-.
Kaweah.......................
Reseda ..................._....
Meridian......................
San Gorgonio .............
John P. Jarman ..........
Greenleaf .......... _ .. _.
San Clemente.............
Laguna Beach............
Far West.....................
Los Cerritos.......:.........
Modesto.......................
Willow Glen ...............
Liberal Arts................
Altadena......................
Canby Cross...............
Carmel .........................
Dos Palos .................
Barstow ....................
Redwood Empire ...
Trona, U. D ............

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

160.65
142.90
61.00
92.65
56.25
110.05
198.40
88.45
250.25
44.30
51.10
46.35
82.85
180.90
38.15
49.95
59.95
120.20
71.20
80.10
150.65
19.50
47.15
123.15
86.50
125.25
74.25

80.40
74.40
32.00
48.40
32.40
54.80
102.40
45.20
122.00
24.80
29.60
23.60
43.60
98.40
20.40
25.20
33.20
67.20
35.20
45.60
80.40
12.00
28.40
60.40
44.00
66.00
42.00
34.00
73.60
23.60
23.60
16.80
22.40
8.40
14.00

100.50
93.00
40.00
60.50
40.50
68.50
128.00
56.50
152.50
31.00
37.00
29.50
54.50
123.00
25.50
31.50
41.50
84.00
44.00
57.00
100.50
15.00
35.50
75.50
55.00
82.50
52.50
42.50
92.00
29.50
29.50
21.00
28.00
10.50
17.50

6~ .2 5

126.60
49.35
43.35
35.30
52.40
28.65
59.75

589
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

250.00
125.00
75.00
125.00

591.55
435.30
208.00
326.55
125.55
383.35
728.80
340.15
999.75
150.10
142.70
· 174.45
305.95
652.30
109.05
181.65
184.65
371.40
225.40
232.70
631.55
46.50
161.05
459.05
310.50
423.75
193.75
245.75
492.20
177.45
171.45
148.10
202.80
122.55
466.25

150.00
300.00
150.00
475.00
50.00
25.00
75.00
125.00
250.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
300.00
50.00
200.00
125.oo ·
150.00
25.00
100.00
200.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
75.00
375.00

Total due ................ 88,522.70 48,743.20 60,929.00 86,250.00 284,444.90

590

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

591

I believe does mean victorious living, and I am sure could our brethren
speak to us today, these poetical and victorious words would be the
message from each one :

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Organ Solo : ''Erotic'' ...... ;........................... ~---····················-············Grieg

Invoc~tio11 .................. '. .................................:..................... Grand

Chaplai11

To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
The ravages of death, the dread destroyer of that which is mortal, has
again thinned the ranks of our brethren and taken from us many whose
places of usefulness w ill be very hard to fill. Since Grand Lodge convenecl
a year ago, two hundred and fifteen of our brethren have gone to their
Eternal Home. Fifteen of this number have at some time in the past held
responsible positions. Our greatest loss was in the passing of our beloved
brother, the Very Worshipful John Whicher, Grand Secretary of this Grand
Lodge. A special eulogy will be given Brother Whicher by Past Grand
Master Dana R. 'Weller. I shall give all the time assigned to me in brief
eulogies for the other departed brethren.
Again we look with the eyes of faith to that good old Book, finding
there sustaining grace and peace. "O death, where is thy sting, 0 grave,
where is thy victory. The sting of death is sin and the strength of sin is
the law, but thanks be to God who giveth us the victory through our
Lord Jesus Christ."
To me Masonry and victorious living are synonymous. This is not a
time of sadness to us but rather a time of deep and sincere gratitude for
the assurance that our brethren are now happy in their Father's house.
"Ye believe in God, believe also in Me. I11 My Father's House are many
mansions." God has given us these words for our comfort at such a time
as this and we are assured that our brethren are now in that spiritual
building, that house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. "I will
not leave you comfortless, I will come to you. Because I live ye shall live
also. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Let not your
heart be trouble'd ; neither let it be afraid."
We frequently speak of time as an eternal thing, and why not? Surely
we know there is neither beginning nor ending of days. T hose who have
gone on before us have just been translated from what we here call time
to what we speak of as eternity. Whatever our faith, whatever we may
individually believe in the future of our departed, let us for a short time
medita(e and contemplate upon this one thought : Wherever our departed
brethren are this morning they are supremely happy.
There is something about Masonry that when rightfully understood
controls to a large extent the thinking of the individual Mason. Yes, it
does more than this, it directs and motivates his every action. No man
can think seriously about his raising in the third degree without forever
after being a different man. \Vhy can we not fix our thinking for a few
minutes on victorious living! Life lived in all the beauty and glory
of peace and perfect trust. Surely every man who has affirmed his trust
ia God is ready to cross over to be with that innumerable host and sing
as ne'er before "the songs of Moses and the Lamb."
Today we are looking out into the great unknown, not with anxious
hearts and minds but with a spirit ·of confidence. We could not meet
for this service in a spirit of joy but we are meeting in the victorious
spirit of peace and gratitude. \Vhat does N:~nry mean ? It should and

"Today the journey is ended,
I have worked out the mandates of fate;
Naked, alone, undefended,
I knock at the Uttermost Gate.
"Lo, the gate swings wide at my knocking;
Across endless reaches I see
Lost friends, with laughter, come flocking
To give a glad welcome to me.
" Farewell, t he maze has been threaded,
This is the ending of strife;
Say not that death should be dreaded'Tis only the beginning of life."
ALBERT BRADFORD WEBSTER, Past Grand Master
Not entirely unexpected was the passing of Past Grand M aster, Brother
Albert Bradford Webster, June 4, 1941. He was born in Genoa, Ohio,
December 14, 1869. He was married July 6, 1897 and three children and his ·
wife survive him. He received his education in the University of California
and Hastings Law Schoo). He was a m ember and Past Master of Live
Oak Lodge No. 61, F. & A. M. He was initiated March 20, 1896, passed
March 27, 1896 and raised April 10, 1896. He was a member of Oakland
Chapter No. 36, R. A. M ., Oakland Commandery No. 11, K . T., and the
Oakland Bodies, A . A. S. R . He received the honorary degree of K. C. C. H .
October 1919 and the 33rd degree, Inspector General Honorarv December
1921. He was a member of Aahmes Temple, A. A. 0 . .
'M. S. He
!ierved this Grand Lodge as Grand Master in the year 1919, having been
elected to the highest honor in Masonry in California in 1918. His life was
characterized chiefly by service, a never-ending service. In reading his
message to Grand Lodge in 1919 I was amazed at his year's accomplishments. He visited every district excepting two and proved h imself a real
leader among his brethren at that time. In conclusion may I quote from
his address at Grand Lodge in 1919 : "If we can once get the great mass
of the brotherhood to realize that there is nothing more important than
the recognition of the commo11 bonds of humanity, that th e doctrine of
brotherhood means in very fact just what it says, that we are all descendants of one Almighty Father, that we are linked together in fact as well
as in name, by an indissoluble tie of sincere affection, I venture the prediction that we will see th e Masonic Order take its rightfu l place as a.
dynamic force in the Nation, and in the life of the people, an d th at it will
command recognition not alone for its profe ssions, not alone for the beauty
of its doctrine, but deservedly for its solid practical accomplishment in
all constructive policies and endeavors for the uplift and unity of Humanity." This is the voice of one speaking again to us from the pages of the
past and I am< hoping that as we bid him a fond farewell that Masons
and Masonry m California are measuring up to the high standards he
has set forth in the closing words of his address.

N:

WALTER LEONARD, Grand Lecturer
Brother Walter Leonard was born in San Francisco November 10,
1878, and passed April 3, 1941. He received his first appointment as
Inspector of the 42nd District in 1923, serving in that capacity until

592

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

October 1938 when he was appointed Grand Lecturer. In 1939 he was
elected Grand Lecturer and this position of responsibility he still filled
at the time of his death. He was initiated an Entered Apprentice Mason
in Oriental Lodge No. 144, June 8, 1915, passed to the Degree of Fellowcraft' June 22, 1915 and raised to the sublime degree of Master Mason
July 13, 1915. So many outstanding characteristics were noticeable in his
daily life which revealed the beauty of his character. He was loving, kind,
considerate, gracious, and charitable to all his friends and brethren. I think
that good old Book which graces every Masonic Lodge must have been his
constant companion and inspiration. I like to think of him as of Enoch of
old in that record where it says "He walked with God and God took him and
he was not." God help us all to be as faithful to the ideals of Masonry as he
was.
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent of Decoto Masonic Mome
Masons and friends of the "Home Family" were grieved to hear of
the passing of Brother Frank B. Hartman, the Superintendent of the
Masonic H ome at Decoto, February 5, 1941. Returning from a Masonic
funeral which he conducted February 3 in Oakland for Brother Herman
Cramer he was taken fatally ill and passed on at the age of 74 after having
had charge of the Decoto Home for 32 years. The life and work of this
great man speak for themselves. What a tribute to his great heart is
found in his loyalty to "his Family." His deeds of kindness and loving ministrations, unnumbered, are recorded in that Supreme Grand Lodge record
and even now he is receiving the reward for his faithfulness, having been
summoned to a higher and greater usefulness. I think he was one of those
kindly, gracious spirits, one of those of our brethren of whom it could
be truly said "He went about doing good. He came not to be ministered
unto but to minister to others."
REV. JOHN SNAPE, D. D., Past Grand Chaplain
Brother Snape was born at Odessa, Delaware, December 13, 1870,
and passed ·to his reward September 5, 1941, having been an active Baptist
Minister for more than fifty years. He was a member of Sequoia Lodge
No. 349. He was appointed Grand Chaplain of Grand Lodge in 1931 by
Past Grand Master Robert B. Gaylord and again in 1932 by Past Grand
Master Frank W. Mixter. His was a life full of active Christian Service.
May we say of him in the words of Kipling, "Scarce had he need to cast
his pride or slough the dross of earth, E'en as he walked that day to God,
so walked he from his birth-In simpleness and gentleness and clean mirth."
FOSTER G. DYER, Inspector and Past Grand Lecturer
Brother Dyer was born December 16, 1879 in Gilroy, California, and
passed July 28, 1941, having been Inspector of the 45th District continuously for more than twenty-five years. He was a member of Park Lodge
No. 449, serving as Master in 1920. Brother Dyer was very widely and
favorably known because of having served as Grand Lecturer for the balance
of the year 1934 at the time of the passing of Brother Tom Baker. Brother
Conway in his eulogy to Brother Dyer says, "He was a marvelous Master
of the ritual; he gave all possible assistance to the young officers who were
coming up the line. His kindliness was well known"; and may I add his
ritualistic knowledge and work were second to none. May his efforts
bring an eternal benediction upon Park Lodge and his brethren of Grand
Lodge.
JACOB ERRATT HUGHES, Inspector
Brother Hughes was born March 19, 1862 at Winchester, Canada and

GRAND LODr.E OF CALIFORNIA

593

passed December 26, 1940, having been Inspector of the 30th District for
twenty-five years. He was 82 years of age. He was Master of Carquinez
Lodge No. 337 in 1910 and 1914. His was such a long faithfu l service to the
ideals of Masonry that eternity alone can reveal its value. Surely these
words are true of Brother Hughes: "Thou hast been faithful over a few
things, I will make thee ruler over many things : enter thou into the joy
of thy Lord."
HERBERT W. WALKER, Inspector
Brother Walker was born October 30, 1895 in Warsaw, Illinois and
passed November 1, 1940, having been Inspector of the 89th District for
six years. He was Master of Van Nuys Lodge No. 450 in 1927. He leaves
his wife, Melba J oh nson Walker, and two children. May I digress: Bert
as we familiarly called him, was at Grand Lodge School of Instruction las~
year and I had a very fine visit with him. When I inquired regarding his
health he said, "I have been in bad shape but I am now improving and
hope soon to be as well as ever." He has now been translated to his
Eternal Home where there is "no more pain or death neither sorrow nor
crying, for the former things are passed away."
'
THOMAS ANDERSON, Inspector
Brother Anderson was born at Aberdeen, Scotland, September 7, 1865
and passed July 4, 1941 at the age of 75 years, having been Jnspector of the
44th. District for twenty-four :irears. He was Master of Pacific Lodge No.
136 in 1916. Brother Tom, as he was fami liarly ca lled, was dearly loved by
all who knew him. Quoting from a eulogy which I received "At the break
of dawn in the morning of July 4 a final summons was i~sued, a kindly
messenger whispered the tidings and the spirit of your friend and my frienr\
departed for that Temple not built by hands to receive h is reward for a
just and upright life. We should not mourn the passing but rather give
thanks that Pacific Lodge was fortunate in having had Thomas Anderson's
advice and service over a long period of years, and while his presence will
certainly be missed, his ideals and teachings will not be forgotten." I am
sure the benediction of his loving service will be felt in his L odge and in his
District for all time to come.
HAROLD WILBUR CONKLIN, Inspector
Brother Conklin was born in Kansas October 6, 1900 and passed
November 15, 1940, having been Inspector of the 33rd District for nearly
three years. He was a member and Past Master of Heary Morse Stephens
Lodge No. 541 and for many years had been active in Grand Lodge activities. He was Senior Grand Steward in 1936; a member of the Jurisprudence
Committee in 1935 ; and a member of the Masonic Education Committee in
1936. So little can be said of this fine upstanding Mason in a report limited
especially as to time. It may be possible to print in full a eulogy delivered at
his funeral by Brother Vaughan McCaughey from which I shall quote
briefly: "Life has few sadder privileges that that of presenting a eulogy of
a beloved friend. Nevertheless it is a solemn privilege to do honor to one
taken so suddei:ty from our midst at the untimely age of 40, one whose life
and deeds so richly deserve all the honor we can give. In 1928 Harold
Conklin and Marian E. Rowe were married. Two lovely children blessed
this happy union, a daughter Joyce Roanne, born in 1934, and a son Warren
CraiE?-, born in 1937." Here, all too briefly, are a few statements 'touching
the hfe of our Brother Conklin. Today I am hoping for him and all those
wh~ have p~ssed, that having laid aside all that is mortal and having put
on 1mmortahty, that they are now permitted to listen in on these services
rendered in their behalf. Theirs is now a blissful eternity w here "Eye hath

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

not seen, ear hath not heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man
the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him."

. !hen again we drop the curtain which separates time a n d eternity,
bidding our brethren a fond and loving farewell, resting confident in th e
hope that some day "Almighty God in His infinite mercy wi ll grant that w e
may meet to part no more." Often, very often, will memor y recall again to
us our beloved brethren but let us be comforted by these w ords: "He that
believeth in M e, th ough he were dead, yet shall he live."

S94

PAUL G. WELLER, former Inspector
Brother Weller was born in Rialto, California, January 26, 189S and was
taken to his Eternal Home September 29, 1941, aged 46 years. He was raised
June 17, 1924. He served as Inspector of the lOSth District from 19.37 to
1941. He was Master of Rialto Lodge No. S82 in 1929, and a member of
Long Beach Consistory. I quote briefly from a eulogy given at his funeral
service October 1, 1941, by Albert Jess Erichsen, "He was a man of sterling
qualities, fine principle and fine character." As long as Masonry lives his.
memory will be cherished in the lOSth District.
CHARLES B. JONES, former. Inspector
Brother Jones was born September 2, 1882 and passed to his reward
September 21, 1941, aged S9 years. He was raised February 20, 1914 in
Buena Park Lodge No. 3S7 and .became a charter member of Coachella
Lodge No. 476 in 1919 and served this Lodge as Master in 1922, 1923 and
1934. He served this Grand Lodge as Inspector of the 107th District from
1927 to 1932. His funeral furnished evidence of the high esteem of his
neighbors and his friends, for the chapel could not accommodate all who.
came. Brother Charles was a very fine ritualist and gave liberally of his
time to the brotherhood, though not an active Inspector. M ay his work
continue through the endless days of time.
RICHARD WILLIAM O'BANNION, former Inspector
Brother O'Bannion went to his eternal rest November 27, 1940. I wish
it were possible for me to properly honor this former Inspector whom I
have never known. The Press in Hollister gave him due recognition of his
Masonic service, his life's history and especially the large place he filled in
that community, having been a practicing physician there for forty-three
years. He was a member of San Benito Lodge No. 211. Quoting from a
letter from the Grand Secretary: "Dr. O ' Bannion w as for many years Inspector of District No. SS. He w as a physicia n and surgeon; one of the m ost
beloved men in Hollister, wher e he practiced for m any year s. He w as the
personal physician of the late Brother Dan McDonald, to whom I presented a 7S-year veteran button while I was Grand Master." His was a
long life of real service in the community in which he lived and to the
brethren of his Masonic Lodge and District.

A. HEBER WINDER, Chairman Masonic Education Committee
Brother Winder was taken to his eternal home October 19, 1940. His.
was a ver y full, active and useful life. H e was raised in M ystic Lodge No.
40S in D ayton, Ohio, and demitted to E vergreen L odge No. 2S9 in River side, November 9, 1911, s erving this Lodge as Master in 1916. He w as a.
member of Riverside Chapter No. 67, R. A. M ., Riverside Commandery No.
28, K. T., Al Malaikah Shrine of Los Angeles; Valley Council No. 27,
R. & S. M., Los Angeles Bodies A. & A. S. R.; anc;l the Order of Constantine in Los Angeles. His outstanding Masonic contribution was his'
work for Masonic education, having been a member of t hat committee for
about eig hteen years, and serving G rand Lodge as chairman o f this committee at the time of his death. May w e exemplify his devotion to M asonry.
To me the work of this N ecrology C ommittee has been done with a.
very heavy heart, not because I am lacking in faith, not because my hope
is not an abundant hope, but because my loss has been the same as your
loss. We are all separated from these, our Brethren, until the dawn of a
triumphant future shall reunite us.

Yet L ove will dream, and Faith will trust,
(Since He who knows our needs) is just,
That somehow, somewhere, meet we must.
Alas for him who never sees
The stars shine through h is cypress trees!
Who, hopeless,' lays his dead away,
Nor looks to see the breaking day
Across the mourn fu l m arbles play!
Who hath not learned in hours of faith,
The truth to fle sh and sense unknown,
That Life is ever lord of Death,
And L ove can never lose its own.
-Whittier.
Western Star Lodge No. 2:
Clifford R . Wiegel, died November 4, 1940.
Willia m A. Speak, died December 15, 1940.
Tehama Lodge No. 3:
Halleck Hart Look, died December 26, 1933.
Benicia Lodge No. 5:
Gr ant Lew is Allen, died January 26, 1941.
John DeForest , died December 3, 1940.
Joh n Ellis Wagner, died Janua r y 19, 1941.
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8:
Harry Leonard LePape, died January 27, 1941.
San Jose L odge No. 10:
Louis John Blase, died April 8, 1941.
Charles Edwar d Hablut zel, died May 31, 1941.
Yount Lodge No. 12:
John Adolph P.iderson, died September 27, 1940.
Thomas Jerome Tate, died April 2, 1941.
Charles Edward Trower, died May 17, 1941.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19:
R euben Hen r y Sink, died Novem ber 28, 1940.
Occidental Lodge No. 22:
Frederick William Nish , died May 21, 1941.
Michael Joseph Savage, died March 23, 1941.
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30:
Ch a rles Alber t Gromaire, died September 8, 1940.

S9S

596

PRO<;EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Diego Lodge No. 35:
Fred Arnold Schneider, died December 6, 1940.
Carl Henry Heilbron, died June 22, 1941.

Hornitos Lodge No. 98:
Huber Small Spahr, died July 18, 1941.
Samuel Hall Williams, died Octobe·r 31, 1939.

Howard Lodge No. 37:
George Alfred DeWitt, died June 3, 1941.

Lexington Lodge No. 104:
Robert Rankin, died December 6, 1940.

Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
Thomas Guy McCreary, died June 29, 1941.
Gerald Francis Severio, died December 3, 1940.

Eden Lodge No. 113:
Lowell Albion Eugley, died September 7, 1940.
Willard Henry Young, died August 12, 1940.

Martinez Lodge No. 41:
Ernest Harvey Shibley, died June 7, 1941.

Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Benjamin Armer, died July 13, 1941.

Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Abram Moses Edelman, died February 8, 1941.

Alamo Lodge No. 122:
Allan McPhee, died De.cember 26, 1940.

Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
Christian William Spiegel, died March 8, 1941.
John Frederick Schroth, died. February 6, 1941.

LaFayette Lodge No. 126:
Asa Leandro Hutton, died March 17, 1941.

Crescent Lodge No. 45:
Daniel Rea, died Decen{ber 15, 1940.
Plumas Lodge No. 60
William Clarence Reynolds, died June 17, 1941.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61:
Carlton Dunfield Dethlefsen, died October 26, 1940.
Edward Constant Robinson, died October 28, 1940.
Albert Bradford Webster, died June 4, 1941. Natoma Lodge No. 64:
Hans Christian Julius Rudolf Clemensen, died May 6, 1941.
Amador Lodge No. 65:
Myron Shaw Matson, died August 12, 1940.
Forest Lodge No. 66: ·
Thomas Peter Fleming, died September 9, 1940.
Enterprise Lodge No. 70:
Howard Clifton Cla•rk, died January 12, 1941.
Lawren.c e Schillig, died November 29, 1940.

Woodbridge Lodge No. 131:
Charles Robert Rutledge, December 18, 1940.
Pacific Lodge No. 136:
Leo Arthur Levy, died December 15, 1940.
Thomas Anderson, died July 4, 1941.
Curtis Lodge No. 136:
Robert Maclay McClelland, died October 4, 1940.
Franklin Lodge No. 143:
Joseph Henry Hyde, died August 30, 1940.
Merwyn Mills Isham, died September 6, 1940.
Louis Helmer Fallman, died October 24, 1940.
Charles Ernest Bunnell, died July 29, 1941.
Oriental Lodge No. 144:
Walter Leonard, died April 3, 1941.
Eel River Lodge No. 147:
Harry Kingston Fox Hansell, died .May 20, 1941.
Molino Lodge No. 150:
Philip Julius Menzio, died December 10, 1940.
Wellma•n Jenness Bailey, died July, 1940.

Humboldt Lodge No. 79:
Hugh Alexander Graham, died September 12, 1940.
George Katz, died April 18, 1941.

Woodland Lodge No. 1.'16:•
Warren Allston Brown, died April 2~. 1941.

Ione Lodge No. 80:
William Stephen Lumsden, died June 3, 1941.

Mission Lodge No. 169:
Richard Spicer Allen, died January 6, 1941.

Yolo Lodge No. 81:
James Edward Harmon, died June 11, 1941.
George Henry Hoppin, died September 5, 1940.

Drytown Lodge No. 174:
N. P. Nelson, died June 25, 1941. ~
Julius Loenthal, died June ......, 1931.

Naval Lodge No. 87:
Frederick Winslow Hall, died April 23, lHl.

Phoenix Lodge No. 178:
Harold Dewis Shaw, died February 4, 1941.

597

598

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Evening Star Lodge No. 186:
John Howe Adams, died March 14, 1941.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

North Butte Lodge No. 230:
William Nicol, died July 1941.

Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Owen Henry Robertson, died July 30, 1941.

Calistoga Lodge No. 233:
Michael Sixon Boland, died April 25, 1941.

Northern Light Lodge No 190:
Guy Joseph Knuthson, died July 28, 1941.

Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236:
Thomas Steamper, died July 9, 1941.

Ferndale Lodge No. 193:
Herbert N. Briggs, died November 15, 1940.
A. W. Blackburn, died March 31, 1941.

Santa Ana Lodge No. 241:
William Warren Clevenger, died October 19, 1940.
Charles Franklin Mitchell, died April 29, 1941.

Mountain View Lodge No. 194:
Edward M. Ehrhorn, died February 10, 1941.
Thomas E. Watts, died April 21, 1941.

Magnolia Lodge No. 242:
Dana Francis Bucey, died October 8, 1940.
Frank Albert Conant, died January 5, 1941.

Hartley Lodge No. 199:
Dudley Welsh Green, died May 23, 1941.
Truckee Lodge No. 200:
Samuel R. Cupples, died October 31, 1940.
Silveyville Lodge No. 201:
Charles Martin Kirby, died May 19, 1941.
Claude Rohwer, died October 7, 1940.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
Jack Paschall, died September 17, 1940.
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208:
John Christensen, died March 12, 1941.
King David's Lodge No. 209:
John Whicher, died March 3, 1941.

Alcatraz Lodge No. 244:
Ferdinand Soulard Smith, died November 22, 1940.
Alonzo Waggener, died May 6, 1941.
Laurel Lodge No. 245:
Leon Speier, died June 15, 1941.
Evergreen Lodge No. 259: .
A. Heber Winder, died October 19, 1940.
Hesperian Lodge No. 264:
William Grant Mac~onald, died July 14, 1941.
Orland Lodge No. 265:
Willard Clark, died January 28, 1941.

Friendship Lodge No. 210:
Albert Thomas Hollingsworth, died July 21, 1941.

Pasadena Lodge No. 272:
Truman Parker, died January 21, 1941.
Charles Madison Staves, died March 2, 1941.
Halfdan Trygre Sundbye, died April 18, 1941.

San Benito Lodge No. 211:
Richard William O'Bannion, died November 27, 1940.

Anchor Lodge No. 273:
Preston Reese Mercer, died October 15, 1940.

South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
Mads Jensen Iverson, died February 28, 1941.

Southern California Lodge No. 278:
Charles Sherman Anderson, died May 30, 1941.
George Irvin Kyte, died August 7, 1940.
William Henry Harrison, died August 31, 1940.

Doric Lodge No. 216:
Moses Milton Getz, died December 6, 1940.
Chester Clyde Gilbert, died May 26, 1941.
William Wesley Kelly, died September 3, 1940.

Hanford Lodge No. 279:
Charles Nelson Richardson, died February 22, 1941.

Roseville Lodge No. 222:
Lyman Hempstead Barber, died January 6, 1941.

Maxwell Lodge No. 288:
Arthur John Hovely, died January 20, 1941.

Brooklyn Lodge No. 225:
Herbert Pashe Briggs, died June 21, 1941.

Santa Paula Lodge No. 291 :
Thomas Leslie Millham, died January 10, 1941.

Athens Lodge No. 228:
Frank Woodley Palmer, died August 24, 1940.

Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297:
Byrnn Franklin Dunn, died February 1, 1941.

599

600

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302:
Carl H. L. Abbott, died August 6, 1940.
Frank Merritt Beebe, died December 13, 1940.

Sequoia Lodge No. 349:
Gilman William Bacon, died October 6, 1941.
John Snape, died September 5, 1941.

Reedley Lodge No. 304:
Clarence E. Skidmore, died January 13, 1941.

Palestine Lodge No. 351 :
Albert 'c. Winter, died September 8, 1940.

Azusa Lodge No. 305:
Willard J. Wade, died April 9, 1941.

Sunset Lodge No. 352:
Louis Ludlow Haight, died November 26, 1940.

Santa Monica Lodge No. 307 :
Frank A. Helton, died July 11, 1941.

Presidio Lodge No. 354:
Clinton Michael Smith, died August 15, 1940.

Los Banos Lodge No. 312:
William Jasper Stockton, died September 6, 1940.

Golden State Lodge No. 358:
William Augustus Schrieder, died March 19, 1941.
William Charles Smith, died July 26, 1940.

Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:
Jonas Galinger, died February 6, 1941.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 :
Martin C. Neuner, died June 27, 1941.
South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Fred C. Hayden, died January 5, 1941.
Charles Alvin Sweet, died September 3, 1940.
Alisal Lodge No. 321:
Crawford Letham, died February 5, 1941.
Louis Christian Walter, died April 15, 1941.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327:
Edwin Tennett Date, died January 25, 1941.

San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Frank William Aitken, died October l, 1940.
John Arthur Walden, died May 29, 1941.
Unity Lodge No. 368:
Ernest John Morgan, died April 20, 1941.
Le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371:
James Alexander Garvie, died February 2, 1941.
Gardena Lodge No. 372:
Louis William Ernst, died February 28, 1941.
Mizpah Lodge No. 378:
·Frank Tallman Benson, died August 27, 1940.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382:
Frank Lee Van Epps, died March 24, 1941.

Kilauea Lodge No. 330:
Charles Henry Fairer, died September 12, 1940.
William McKay, died May 20, 1940.

El Centro Lodge . No. 384:
John Wesley Cook, died June 28, 1941.

San Pedro Lodge No. 332:
Ernest Albert Miller, died July 14, 1941.

West Lake Lodge No. 392:
William Edward Rydalch, died May 12, 1941.

West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Harry Simon Lasker, died February 24, 1941.

Balder Lodge No. 393:
Per Edwin Persson, died January 2, 1941.

Fruitvale Lodge No. 336:
Lawson Howatt, died November 30, 1940.

University Lodge No. 394 :
Willis Archie Scott, died March 25, 1941.

Carquinez Lodge No. 337:
Jacob Erratt Hughes, died Dec,ember 26, 1940.

Turlock Lodge No. 395:
Charles Victor Lundahl, died November 25, 1940.

Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
James Arthur Green, died November 27, 1940.
Arthur Staley, died June. 28, 1941.

Clovis Lodge No. 417:
Julius Clifford Vinton, died March 26, 1941.

Oxnard Lodge No. 341:
Leon Lehmann, died November 21, 1940.
Charles Haskell Weaver, died February 15, 1941.

Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422:
Daniel Van Etten Taylor, died April 5, 1941.
Holtville Lodge No. 425:
John Karl Fahring, died July 24, 1941.

601

602

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

GRAND . LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hammonton Lodge No. 433:
Joseph Francis Colt, died July 2, 1941.

Coachella Lodge No. 476:
Charies B. Jones, died September 21, 1941.

Acacia Lodge No. 438:
Ferdinand Henry Sickel, died May 13, ,1941.

Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482:
Everett Challon Zies, died December 21, 1940.

Standard Lodge No. 440:
John Gardner Taylor, died March 19, 1941.

East Bay Lodge No. 489:
Fred Hugh Van Tassel, died June 29, 1941.

Blackmer Lodge No. 442:
Frank Foster, died l<'ebruary 4, 1941.
Edward Milton Sutliff, died April 1, 1941.

Atascadero Lodge No. 493:
John Cicero Burton, died October 19, 1940.

Wilshire Lodge No. 445:
Sydney Benjamin Brown, died May 8, 1941.
Park Lodge No. 449:
Foster Grigsby Dyer, died July 28, 1941.
Albert Walter Stokes, died October 26, 1940.
John Tassell, died April 3, 1941.
Van N uys Lodge No. 450:
Herbert Williamf'l Walker, died November 1, 1940.
Joseph E. Trusler, died May 9, 1941.
Montebello Lodge No. 451:
Joseph Roy Lucas, died October 20, 1940.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452: .
Edward Oscar Nay, died February 23, 1941.
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
George Edward Archer, died May 19, 1941.
Golden West Lodge No. 455:
George Edwin Chapin, died July 27, 1941.

Riverdale Lodge No. 496:
Daniel Benjamin Sanstrum, died March 19, 1941.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507:
F'rank Dryant Bryant, died August 17, 1940.
Argonne Lodge No. 514:
Guy A Barker, di,ed June 18, 1941.
Piedmont Lodge No. 521 :
Hugh Beverley Hill, died August 3, 1940.
Bay City Lodge No. 526:
Arthur Cantrowith, died February 9, 1941.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529:
Philip Lippner, died July 11, 1941.
Queen Beach Lodge No. 540:
Noble Burr Dilday, died May 21, 1941.
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541:
Harold ' Wilbur Conklin, died November 15, 1940.
Lankershim Lodge No. S42:
Frank Orald Graves, died June 8, 1941.

Ramona Lodge No. 457:
Perry 0. Kuhns, died October 21, 1940.
Hubert Odenthal, died November 23, 1940.
Adam H. Post, died July 3, 1941.

Glendale Lodge No. 544:
Leon James Crooker, died March 26, 1941.

Mount Oso Lodge No. 460:
Thomas P. Duffy, died August 11, 1940.

Justice Lodge No. 549:
Hans Christian Christiansen, di.ed June 16, 1941.

Argonaut Lodge No. 461:
Joseph Alexander Blackford, died March 14, 1941. .

Hermosa Lodge No. 557:
Milton Qurck Stuard, died March 28, 1941.

Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463:
Charles Arthur Kerr, died September 14, 1940.

Plymouth Lodge No. 560:
Herbert Ralph Mathiesen, died February 4, 1941.

Libertas Lodge No. 466:
Walter William Wasem, died November 17, 1940.

South Park Lodge No. 563:
Francis . Bayard Slaughter, died June 5, 1941.

Lincoln Lodge No. 470:
,Arthur Daniel Layne, died October 4, 1940.

Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568:
John George Hagist, died February 26, 1941.

America Lodge No. 475:
Charles Emory Wr,ight, died January 18, 1941.

Francis ' K .. Shattuck Lodge No. 571:
Daniel Ross Mccurdy, died March 19, 1941.

603

604

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

James Madison Lodge No. 572:
Harry King Sargent, died June 24, 1941.

605

JOHN WHICHER

S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574:
Don David Donahue, died September 29, 1940.
Santa Maria Lodge No. 580:
Naseb Mahfoud Malouf, died July 10, 1941.
Rialto Lodge No. 582:
Paul G. Weller, died September 29, 1941.
Kauai Lodge No. 589 :
Roland Earl Israel, died May 5, 1941.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592 :
Hilmer Julius Breidt, diEd February 21, 1941.
Guardian Lodge No. 596:
Horace Ralph Middlemiss, died January 4, 1941.
Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598:
Alexander Paul Jones, died January 23, 1941.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607 :
Glenn Preston Hollingsworth, died January 7, 1941.
Canoga Lodge No. 611 :
William Benjamin Johnson, died May 18, 1941.
Southland Lodge No. 618:
Frank Heron, died March 22, 1941.
Fontana Lodge No. 653:
Harry Schenck Barbee; d1Ed January 25, 1941.
Far West Lodge No. 673:
Louis Arthur Gintzler, died April 8, 1941.
ARTHUR P. CRIM ,
WINSTON
SQUIRE,

E:

LEON LOEWENTHAL,
0RLO D. SQUIRES,
JOSEPH
JENKINS,

E.

Committee.

Eulogy b)' DANA R.

WELLER,

Past Grand Mastrr

Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!)
Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace,
And saw, within the moonlight in his room,
Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom,
An Angel writing in a book of gold :
Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold,
And to the Presence in the room he said,
"What writest thou?" The Vision raised its head,
And with a look made of all sweet accord
Answered, " The names of those who love the Lord."
"And is mine one?" said .Abou. "Nay, not so,"
Replied the Angel. Abou spoke more low,
But cheerily still; and said, " I pray thee, then,
Write me as one that loves his fellow-men."
The Angel wrote, and vanished. The next night
It came again with a great wakening light,
And showed the names whom love of God had blessed,
And, lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest.
These lines, so often used in eulogy of others by him whose memory
we now revere, so aptly portray his nobility of character and his own love
of humanity, as to lead to the conclusion that his life and conduct were
fashioned in accordance with the sentiment therein expressed. He would
have chosen no other epitaph for himself, if in his modesty he felt that he
deserved them. We, and thousands of o thers, can bear witness that he
richly merited all that and even more.
The tendrils of his great heart spread out through the aura of his
presence, and entwined themselves tenaciously with the heartstrings of all
his associates, and will so cling with sweet and tender memories until the
last surviving heart shall cease to beat.
May the Supreme Grand Master so direct our footsteps that when
we shall reach that beautiful shore we may be found worthy of a place
beside him who in our fond recollection led all the rest in his love of
human kind, there again to live in the joy of his affection, and fore vermore
to bask in the radiance of his presence.
JOHN WHICH ER, the son of Isaac Which er and Rachel Jordan
Whicher, was born July 4th, 1855, at U rbana, Ohio. In 1857 his family
moved to Des Moines, Iowa, where John learned the art and trade of
printing. In 1879 he moved to Colorado, engaged in newspaper work, and
remained there unti l 1887, when he located in San Luis Obispo, California,
being editor of the San Luis Obispo Tribune until elected County Clerk of
San Luis Obispo Cou nty in 1895, serving in that office until 1903, when he
was appointed Deputy Superintendent o f State Printing at Sacramento,
Californi~. which position he resigned August 25th, 1908, to accept appointment as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of California. H e was first
e lected Grand Secretary in October, 1908, and re-elected each succeeding
year, including the Communication of October, 1940, and served until the
day of his death, on March .31st, 1940.
John Whicher was raised in Pioneer Lodge No. 22, Des Moines, Iowa,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

October 4th, 1879; affiiliated with King David's Lodge No. 209, at San Luis
. Obispo, California, February 26th, 1S96, and held all offices except that of
Treasurer. He served as Master from December 1900 to December 1902.
He was exalted in Leadville Chapter No. 10; at Leadville, Colorado, on
October 16th, 1882. He was knighted December 5th, 1890, in San Luis
Obispo Commandery No. 27, being Commander in 1900-1901. He was a
member of San Francisco Consistory No. 1, Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite, receiving the 32nd degree on June 24th, 1911, and crowned with the
33rd degree on January 25th, 1918. For many years he was a member of
Islam Temple A. A. 0. N. M. S. He was also a member of St. Francis
Conclave, Order of Constantine.
Gifted by inheritance from a line of sturdy ancestors with honesty,
courage, and zeal, enriched with experience in the fields of his endeavor, he
brought to the office of Grand Secretary all of those fine qualities which
made it possible- for him to perform the functions of that office with
peculiar distinction and satisfaction. He was known and respected throughout the world of Masonry, and by his diplomacy the prestige of the Grand
Lodge of California is maintained everywhere. He was meticulous in the
performance of the duties of his office, never presuming to volunteer
advice to the Grand Master, but always more than pleased to contribute
from his vast store of knowledge and experienc,e when requested so to do.
Thirty-two Grand Masters with whom he served have attested to his
uniform courtesy, his dependable loyalty, and his constant regard for the
amenities of the relations existing between the two offices, and all of the
survivors of that group of men have continued through the years to regard
John among their dearest and closest friends,
Among his choicest contributions to the cause of Masonry were his
letters to the children at Covina and the elders at Decoto. Gems of literature and pearls of wisdom, fashioned by his facile hand, are numbered
among the priceless poss·e ssions of many recipients.
As an example of his keen knowledge of the essentials of a successful
life, a quotation from a letter written to a boy leaving Covina to enter the
world and make his way, is typical of many others of like import.

house of memory and reminiscense. Trials and troubles and vexations of spirit assailed us in the days of our youth and inexperience; grim old Fate too often was wayward and adverse as to
worldly fortune; we may say that 'all the ills that flesh is heir to'
have been our lot. Yet I know, and you know, that this old
world is indeed filled with worthwhile life and love and laughter.
As the wrinkles come, and the hair grows thin and 'those that
look out of the windows be darkened,' the blessed memories of
old days, old joys, old friends, grow keener and sweeter, forgetting the days when the clouds hung low, retaining in mind
only the splendor of our few successes and the wonderful men and
women whom we have known and loved. We would not swap
those memories and the friendships enjoyed during a long life
for any elixir of youth . Father time, our dear old companion,
can and will carry his enthusiasm for the things of today and his
love of life and gratitude for blessings past with a jaunty air, thankful-even as you and I-that he has been permitted to participate
for so many years in the affairs of this good old world. "

606

"You will have many problems to solve. When in doubt, try
to find out what is the right thing to do, then have the moral
courage to do it. Seek advice, and after getting it, use your own
judgment. Courage is always rewarded, I don't mean physical
courage, which is common, but moral courage, which is rare.
The boy or girl, the man or woman, who has the moral courage
to defend his own judgment, will usually succeed. Don't, I beg of
you, depend on luck Life of course is necessarily an uncertain
venture. Some of you may not have all your dreams come true;
but whatever Fate may decree, hold fast to your good name, which
is your most precious possession. 'A good name is rather to be
chosen than great riches.' "
His own philosophy which he so successfully followed is best expressed
in his own words in a letter· to a resident of the Home at Decoto, thus:
"I am glad you have had the courage and the good sense to
grow old gracefully. One of the glories of old age is that we can
retrospectively view the trials and troubles and vexations of youth's
salad days as having been so puerile, and now know that the annoyances and . griefs of earlier days were really petty things. Like
you, I have lived way beyond the Biblical three score and ten,
and the experiences of those years are now lodged in the store-

607

Though in the later years his steps faltered, his eyes dimmed and his
heart weakened, not once did he falter in his devotion to his work, his
keenness of mind, or his affection for friends.
And finally he closed his mortal life, as he desired to do, at his desk,
his post of duty.
This po9r tribute delivered by one who is proud to have been numbered
among John's friends, is but a feeble expression of the great love we all
bear for John Which er, our Grand Secretary, and our very dear friend and
brother.
·
Inscribed upon our hearts is a precious memory which cannot be
translated into spoken or printed words, but will linger with us as a benediction for the remainder of our days.
"There is no death! The stars go down
To ·rise upon some fairer shore, ·
And, bright in heaven's jeweled crown,
They shine forever more.
And ever near us, though unseen,
The dear immortal spirits tread;
For all the boundless universe
Is life; there are no dead."
Tenor Solo " Elegie'' .................................................................. Massenet
By Edwin G. Imhaus, Richmond Lodge No. 375

608

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"TRELLISES"
Eulogy by G. ELLSWORTH

MEYER

In the year which has lapsed since our last communication, a goodly
number of our brethren have answered the summons to that higher Grand
Lodge which must come to every man in turn. In memory of those departed
we pause in our deliberations today. We do not pause to lament or say,
Woe unto those rather, we lay aside for the time the thoughts and cares
of our finite world to contemplate the infinite; to join ourselves in a true
fraternal spirit, a spirit marked by faith in the Supreme Grand Master
and his beneficence to these our brethren; a spirit marked by hope that
after we too have joined the innumerable caravan we shall be reunited
with them; a spirit marked by affectionate remembrance of their smiles,
friendly words and kindly deeds. So, within these services abide these
three, faith, hope and charity and may these quiet moments be to us like
trellises, trellises for our climbing thoughts.
To these services one can bring no word that is wholly new for poets
have given words wings, scientists explored the farthest reaches, philosophers speculated through countless tomes and yet life and death remain
the enigma of the ages. We cannot capture the infinite plan in earth-born
words, we cannot circumscribe eternity with man-made tools or examine
it beneath a microscope. We can ·only say:
A breath of joy, an hour of pain,
Dark paths to tread, white heights to g·ain,
A little love, a little strife,
And this is Life.
A little rest, a swift new birth,
A snapping of the bonds of earth,
A joyous stride, · a tingling breath,
And this is Death.
For Life and Death walk hand 111 hand,
With never a span between,
And our path leads to that Other Land,
Where the sunlit fields are green.
Seeing then that we cannot reduce life and death to a mathematical
equation, that we cannot make a round trip to that other land, how necessary it is that we should possess faith; faith in the wisdom and power of
Him, who created the heavens and the earth, faith in the beauty of that
other shore. Such faith is not a mark of weakness but rather the mark of
a'Man and a Mason. Such faith gives purpose and value to life and without
it life would have neither purpose nor value.
The ways of men and nations are hard to accept without faith. It is
difficult for a father to comprehend why his infant son who had but arrived
in this world should be taken ere he took his first tottering steps. It is
almost incomprehensible why a brother should be gathered up in the first
bloom of manhood. As yet unanswerable questions are raised by the life
of toil without comfort which some endure while others possess worldly
goods they have never earned. \tVithout faith these burdens would be unbearable. Without faith that somewhere, sometime, there shall be just compensation, men would not be able to go on carrying their loads; without
such faith men would have no reason to practice temperance in thought
and deed; there would be no reason for courage and justice would be as.
sounding brass. But faith whispers:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

609

There the tears of earth are dried,
There its hidden things are clear,
There the work of life is tried
By a juster Judge than here.
Though we do not possess proof by word of mouth of any traveler
returned from yonder, the circumstantial evidence at every hand is sufficient
to warrant our declaration of faith in God and life hereafter. While science
has uncovered but the smallest fraction of the wonders we may yet behold,
it has found that from the invisible electron to the galaxies of the Milky
Way there .is unerring response to law inscribed by some omnipotent
hand; it has discovered that all matter is composed of energy and that
while energy may be transformed, it is never, never lost. Is man then an
exception? A germ of wheat entombed with the mummy of a Pharaoh
will yet spring to life when given soil and water. Would Infinite Wisdom
forget man whilst he remembered the kernel of grain?
Charles Darwin, about whose head have been loosed ecclesiastical
lightnings, gave faith voice when de declared, "Believing as I do that man
in the distant future will be a far more perfect creature than he now is, it
is an intolerable thought that he and other sentient beings are doomed
to complete annihilation after such long continued slow process."
Socrates as he held the cup of hemlock is reported to have said, "Having
an end with the foolishness of this body, we shall now become pure and
converse with the pure."
So too, you an<l I, in those hours when we are intellectually and spiritually at our best, cannot, without violence to our profoundest instincts,
conceive of a world which would lose all its gains, a world in which
all that we have willed and hoped and dreamed was to no avail. We adhe~e
therefore to belief in God and immortality not in the sense in which we
accept the demonstrable truths of science, but as a supreme act of faith
in the reasonableness of creation, as the necessary crown to a creative
work marvelous and beautiful in all its myriad stages; though we can express ourselves only in myth and symbol as ever we must express our
deepest perceptions.
'
Death may be a great. adventure but may we face it as Columbus
faced his first voyage from the shores of Spain. What lies across the sea
we cannot tell, all our special expectations may be mistaken, but our insight
into present facts persuades that the sea has another shore and that we
shall be rewarded by the .vision of a new continent. Here abideth faith.
The hope of immortality is the heart of every religion, and the purpose,
to serve as the avenue and vestibule to the attainment of that life. In that
regard Masonry may be classed with the religions for by myth and symbol
we give expression to that hope. But whence came it? Who put it in the
human mind?
Wherever consciousness ripens this audacious hope appears; as soon
as thought is exercised it is expressed; as soon as virtue glows it is impressed in the structure of minds. It is not through sight that this hope is
born, for "hope may end in fruition"; rather it is as elemental as a father's
hope for his child yet unborn. May it not have been impressed by our
Father as part and parcel of his everlasting plan, as the summary and
completion of man?
Our hope is not sentimental but is grounded in the necessities and
forces about us. Here eternal law prevails and at that point, far, far beyond ·
our ken eternal law must still hold its sway. On this human sphere inequality, intolerance and error at times prevail in spite of all our efforts.

610

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We y~arn for perfect justice though we realize it may prev:i-il only in
"that house not made by hands."
Our hope of immortality-the poets have sung it, the seers have told it,
and our hearts, in their deepest pulses, throb responsive. Here on our trellis abideth hope.
There is yet one final lesson to be gathered from these moments of
meditation. Our paths may have seldom crossed those of some whose days
of toil are now o'er, but of all we know that they were good men and true,
seekers of the greater light else they would not have knocked at the Masonic door, or having knocked, would not have found time to serve the
order well. Those whom we were privileged to know more intimately, we
remember, not for the worldly goods they possessed, but for their manifold nobilities. We remember them, not for their clothes, but the smiles
they wore. We remember them, not for their large purses, but for their
large hearts. We remember them, not for the speed of their motor cars,
but for the speed with which they reached our sides in time of need. We
remember them, not for the number of rooms in their houses, but for the
many noble thoughts in which they dwelt.
If then these matters of character are the remembrance which these
brethren have left behind them, how obvious it is that these must be attributes of prime import. With these same attributes Masonry is concerned
and with those only.
It is not mere fraternal pride to declare that we believe .these brethren
were better men because they walked the Masonic path. We freely admit
we are the richer-because they walked a while with us.
Someone has said, "To live in the hearts we leave behind, is not to die."
Of our brethren we then declare, "They yet live in our hearts." Here on our
trellis blooms that love which is charity and which "extends beyond the
grave through the boundless realms of eternity."
A memorial song: "Taps" (Custance).
Benediction: Grand Chaplain.

At 12 :10 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 o'clock
Thursday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

611

Jf n (!9ranb JLobge
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 16, 1941.
Grand Lodge was called from refreshment to labor at 9 :30
oclock A. M., the Grand Master presiding.
The Grand Master called attention to his use, during today's
sessions, of the beautiful silver gavel presented to him by the
Officers' Association of the San Diego Lodges.
The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain invoked the blessings
of our Supreme Grand Master.
The Most Worshipful Arthur D. Hay, Grand Master of Masons in the jurisdiction of Oregon, was received with Grand Honors and escorted to a seat in the East. In response to the cordial
fraternal welcome extended by our Grand Master, ~rother Hay
expressed the greetings and good wishes of his Grand J urisdiction, and presented to our Grand Master a unique gavel made of
myrtle wood, a material available only in the Holy Land and in
Oregon.
A telegram of greeting was read from Mrs. Gertrude Conant,
Worthy Grand Matron of the Order of t~e Eastern Star.
The minutes of Wednesday morning were read and approved.
The Grand Master presented a resolution, amending Article
1, of Section 31, of the Ordinances, by striking out the word
"Tuesday" and substituting therefore the word "Monday."
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Being appointed by the Grand Master to replace our late Brother
Thomas Andersqn, as Chairman of the Committee on Accounts, I submit
herewith the following report:
Your Committee on Accounts, in accordance with the requirements
of the Constitution of our Grand Lodge, on the last Saturday of each
month, met at the office of the Grand Secretary to audit such bills, claims
and demands against this Grand Lodge which had been received, and approved those which were in order.
Respectfully submitted,
]AMES

J. YATES,

K. SA YSETTE,
STEPHEN

J.

J. DEAN,

MAX
MERTENS,
EDWIN
KLEINHANS,
ROBERT
DREYFUS,

J.

L.

Report adopted.

Committee.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

612

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY ~LAWS

613

REPORT OF CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE

To the M.'. TV:. Grand Lodge of California:

1'o the M:. W:. Grand Lodgl! of California:

Your Committee on By-Laws desires to report that forty-four Lodges
of this jurisdiction have made changes in their By-Laws during the past
year.
Five Lodges considered and adopted an i11crease in yearly dues: Turlock Lodge No. 395, La Puente Lodge No. 446, James A. Garfield Lodge
No. 566, Granada Lodge No. 608 and Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625.
Two Lodges increased their fee for the Degrees and also the Affiliation fee : Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528 and Veritas Lodge No. 460.
Two Lodges reduced their dues : Lompoc Lodge No. 262, and Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
Eight Lodges reduced their fee for the Degrees : West Gate Lodge
No. 335, Palestine Lodge No. 351, Artesia Lodge No. 377, East Bay Lodge
No. 489, Garvanza Lodge No. 492, Roosevelt Lodge No. 500, Service
Lodge No. 594 and Meridian Lodge No. 667, and Imperial Lodge No. 390
reduced the Affiliation fee.
Eight Lodges changed their place of meeting: Golden Gate.Lodge No.
30, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44, Brawley Lodge No. 402, Carpinteria
Lodge No. 444, Seaport Lodge No. 550, Hillcrest Lodge No. 573, Guardian
Lodge No. 596 and Liberal Arts Lodge No. 667.
Seventeen Lodges changed the time of their monthly stated meeting
and provided for excepting stated meetings on certain holidays: San Mateo
Lodge No. 226, Alturas Lodge No. 248, North East Lodge No. 266, Delano
Lodge No. 309, Redondo Lodge No: 328, San Pedro Lod~e No. 332, Carquinez Lodge No. 337, Sunset Lodge No. 352, Fairmount Lodge No. 435,
Lancaster Lodge No. 437, Hermosa Lodge No. 557, Jewel Lodge No. 574,
Progressive Lodge No. 578, Harding Lodge No. 594, Sojourner Lodge
No. 607, San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668 and Far West Lodge No. 673.
All of the aforesaid amendments were submitted to the Grand Master
in proper form and in accordance with Masonic Law and received his
approval.
Your committee feel that the Secretaries and officers of the Lodges
gave careful consideration to the matters - concerned and consequently
presented the amendments correctly. One amendment was disapproved by
the Grand Master which provided for using Temple Building Bonds in
payment of the fee for the Degrees: Mt. Diablo Lodge No. 448. We concur
in his disapproval of said amendment.
We therefore move the adoption of this report approving the fortythree amendments and disapproving of the one amendment.
Respectfully submitted,
O A KLEY K. MORTON,

Your Committee on Constitution Month Observance reports:
While the report of this committee is not listed on the printed program,
the Grand Master assures us that an opportunity for its presentation will
be afforded. We assume that its omission was an inadvertence, and was
due to the fact that this is only the second year of appointment of this
committee.
The Constitution of the United States and perpetuation of the rights
which it guarantees, and the spirit of individual liberty which it represents
are probably the most important questions confronting not only the
citizens of the United States, but also the world at large, and the civilization
of which that Constitution is the fruit. Equally, we believe that the opportunity of Masonry to make its traditional contribution to the perpetuation
of those institutions is one of the most important problems, if not the most
important, which today confronts Masonic organizations. Wherever dictatorship has flourished, Masonry and religion have, hand in hand, been
ostracized.
The fact that the Masons of this jurisdiction realize the importance
of the situation is exemplified by the reports which have been returned t.o
the Committee.
If the Committee is continued for the ensuing year; many of the statistics which appear in the reports will be of value for guidance of future
activities. We also suggest that the information from these report"s is
of value to Grand Officers as an illuminating exemplification of the Lodges
which are inactive and the districts in which Inspectors have neglected the
activities of Grand Lodge.
·
We emphasize the fact that a form for report was sent to every Lodge
and to every Inspector in the jurisdiction. The form specifically stated the
person to whom responsibility attached for its return, the importance of
its return, and the person to whom it was to be forwarded, being to the
Regional Chairman in North and South respectively. Apparently, many of
these forms were either consigned to the waste basket or were not read.
Some of the districts have not reported. A substantial number of Lodges
have failed to report. In several instances a general letter report has been
returned, and in several instances the reports have come to either the Grand
Secretary's office or to the General Chairman. While this specification may
seem rather technical, it is presented because of the value of the reports
each year for reference in succeeding years, and because of the difficulty in
compiling statistics in the absence of uniform reports of all meetings.
Both the Grand Master and the Committee emphasize the desirability
of public meetings wherever practical. Reverence for the Constitution and
the fostering of its ideals are the purposes of the movement which is represented by this Committee. It should be a safe assumption that any good
Mason is already familiar with those purposes and desires to play his part
as a citizen of the United States. Accordingly, it was the recommendation
of the Grand Master, and it is, and has been, the recommendation of this
Committee that so far as possible the meetings during Constitution Month
be open to the public, and that every effort be made to promote the attendance of the community in general and the sponsorship of service clubs
and other patriotic organizations. This practice has been so successful in

C. E;. LrsTENW ALTER,
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY,
HENRY
MACK,
FREDERICK B. WINTERS,
FRED A. ScHLAFKE,

c.

Committee.

Report adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAL.IFORNIA

the observance of Public Schools Week that relatively few citizens realize
that this observance is primarily a Masonic activity. It may well be that in
the case of Constitution Month the fostering of the movement by Masonry
shall not be kept too much in the background-both for emphasis on the
patriotic ideals of Masonry, and because of the emphasis which may be
placed throughout the community upon constitutional institutions by reason
of the efforts of our Masonic organizations to maintain them.
However, our appeal is to citizens in general; and every effort should be
made to procure participation and endorsement by civically-minded organizations of every type, whether Jewish or Gentile, Protestant or Catholic,
secular or religious. To obtain such participation, public meetings are
essential, and undue stress need not be placed upon the fact that the movement is fostered by Masonic organizations.
While reports throughout the jurisdiction are not complete, the Committee is able to give a general cross section of .the meetings. As evidenced
by returns to date, approximately 175 meetings were held under the auspices
of individual Lodges, of which 105 were open to the public, and 70 were
closed meetings. Closed meetings usually were held in conjunction with a
stated meeting or with degree work. Approximately 70 joint meetings were
held, of which 50 were open to the public, and 20 of which were closed.
The best estimate which the Committee can make from the attendance
reports is· that there was an attendance of approximately 14,000 at the
meetings conducted under the auspices of individual Lodges, and an attendance of approximately 16,000 at the meetings conducted under joint
auspices, being a total of 30,DOO. This attendance represents both public
and closed meetings·and is estimated in part because of the fact in a number
of instances attendance is reported as " good," "average" and similar expressions .. Although larger and more representative attendance is an ideal,
nevertheless, the presentation of constitutional objectives to a total of 30,000
people in California is worthwhile, particularly when we realize that the
persons in attendance undoubtedly were of sufficient intelligence and were
sufficiently civic-minded to assure continued effort on · their part to promote
the purposes of American civilization.
Your Committee feels that appreciation should be expressed to Grand
Lodge for the very general manner in which support was given to Constitution Observance by both the Inspectors and the Lodges of the jurisdiction.
It is a tribute to citizenship and an exemplification of loyalty to the efforts
of Grand Lodge which cannot be overlooked. In a few instances, the reports
indicate a lack of cooperation upon the part of inspectors, but these instances are exceptional. There are also a few reports in which complaint
is made that the inspectors failed to cooperate in the condu'tt of the joint
meetings; it is to be noted in this connection that the meetings were held
notwithstanding lack of cooperation by the Inspectors, and that the results
were satisfactory. Your Committee recommends that in the absence of
exceptional circumstances, joint meetings be held whenever there are
several Lodges in the community.
In general, the average attendance at joint meetings, even though
conducted by three or four Lodges, was six times the attendance at meetings conducted by an individual Lodge. The Committee realized that there
are many. instances in which it is impractical to successfully hold a joint
meeting. On the other hand, a joint meeting where Lodges are in the same
community has greater attractive power, particularly for a public meeting.
Also, it is easier to obtain a first-class speaker for a large meeting than for
one where a limited number is in attendance.
In the majority of instances the reports favor open meetings, and

favor joint meeting in urban sections. The Committee concurs in this view.
Whether a meeting is conducted by a single Lodge, or is held under the
joint auspices of several Loages, it is practical to invite the general public,
and we stress the fact that the primary purpose of this movement is an appeal
to the general public. A meeting at which families and friends of the members of a single Lodge participate is more effective than a closed meeting.
Reasonable entertainment can be provided in any locality however small,
·and necessarily contributes to the attractiveness of the meeting and the
promotion of larger attendance.
There have been several suggestions that notice to Lodges for Constitution Month meetings be issued at an earlier date. In the first year of
its activity, the date of its appointment prohibited the issuance of an earlier
notice by the committee. The notice for the past year was issued at what
was hoped to be an appropriate date : the Committee feared that too early
a notice would escape attention, and that too late a notice would prevent
proper observance. Apparently, the guess for an appropriate date was not
well timed. The concurrence of opinion indicates that a notice should be
issued in May in order to afford adequate time for preparation. If this procedure is followed, we recommend that a secondary notice be issued in
August emphasizing the importance of the event and confirming the May
notice.
In some instances, particularly in the warmer sections of California, it
has been found difficult to hold meetings in September because of the
heat and the vacation season, and the suggestion has been made that permission be granted to hold the meetings in October. The only objection
to an October meeting is that it would be impossible to incorporate the
result of the meeting in the Committee's report to the Grand Lodge. However, the importance of this observance is the fact that meetings are held
rather than the presentation of a categorical report to Grand Lodge. We,
therefore, recommend that September be designated as Constitution Month,
but that in those instances in which this month is undesirable, permission
be granted to hold the meeting in October.
The Committee would be unappreciative if it failed to acknow\edege
the generosity of speakers at meetingS'. So far as we know, no re-imbursement has been given to any speaker for even his own expenses. In no
instance has any requested speaker refused to permit his name upon the
panel, except in one or two cases in which absence from the State or similar exigencies prevented acceptance. The enthusiasm with which Lodges
have supported the movement, and the courtesy which has been extended
by speakers is a tribute to both Masonry and American citizenship.
Tribute also should be paid to the cooperation of the press throughout
the State. Lodge after Lodge reports the publidty which has been given to
its meetings. This, also, is a source of satisfaction in the general level of
citizenship in this country.
By way of illustration, we quote from the reports of two or three
Lodges:
One Lodge suggests that substantial efforts were made by the Master
to conduct a successful meeting, that efforts were made to obtain the cooperation of other civically-minded bodies, and that only "the faithful few"
were in attendance, a'nd that they were there from a sense of duty. When
inquiry was made of some who were absent as to the cause of their absence,
they stated that they already were fully conscious of the Constitution, patriotism and the duties of citizenship ; therefore, that they had no interest
in attending "a lecture on the subject." The criticism may be well merited
in this particular case. However, it exemplifies the suggestion made by

614

615

616

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

your committee that a meeting is not primarily maintained for Masons
who are good citizens, but should be developed to promote general public
interest and general public attendance. The same criticism was leveled in
the early days of Public Schools Week, but Public Schools Week is a
subject of enthusiastic support throughout the State, and unquestionably
has developed interest in, and support for, our public school system. However, we feel that the writer of this report may have been unduly pessimistic.
The criticism was made that the meeting was held in an auditorium which
will accommodate 800 persons, and that 150 were in attendance. We contrast this with the fact that the membership of the Lodge which conducted
the meeting is less than 100, and that the listed population of the town in
which the meeting was held is approximately 2,000. Under these circumstances, we believe that notwithstanding the meager attendance which resulted from sincere efforts to promote the meeting, it should not prove too
depressing; we must creep before we walk, and it is to be hoped that continued efforts from year to year will develop that spirit of civic consciousness
which is well worthwhile.
In another letter, it is suggested that forty inches of news space in three
cities resulted in an attendance of three persons per inch; that a troop of
Boy Scouts was in attendance as ushers; but were not needed because of
the meager attendance, and that "Masons turned out just as badly as
others, if not worse." In such instances, the only suggestion your Committee can offer is that we should not be unduly discouraged by a limited
interest at the outset of the movement.
By comparison, and for such encouragement as may be derived from
it, we quote a report from Honolulu, in which it is stated that a splendid
meeting was held jointly by the Lodges in Oahu, and that it was "the
largest gathering I have seen in any public assembly under the Masonic
Lodges of the Island." Obviously, there are two sides to the picture, and
if there is perseverance in the movement, results cannot fail to follow:
Your Committee recommends:
1. That a Constitution Mon th Observance Committee be continued
for the ensuing year
2. That September be designated as Constitution Month, but that
Lodges in areas where September is inadvisable, be permitted to hold meetings in October;
3. That the Committee be organized in its present form, to-wit, with a
General Chairman for the State, and regional committee for the North
and South portions of the State;
4. That expenses be allowed to the Committee in the discretion of the
Grand Master. The expenses of the Committee have been nominal, being
confined to stationery, multigraphing and postage. We see no occasion for
increased expenses during the coming year, but we believe that any members
who may be appointed to this particular committee will be glad to bear the
expenses themselves if Grand Lodge feels that the expenditure is not
justified by the purposes sought to be accomplished.
We have compiled a list of Lodges and districts which have failed to
report, and, therefore, presumptively, have failed to hold meetings. It will
unnecessarily consume the time of Grand Lodge to· read the list in connection with the oral report. However, we request permission to attach
this list to our report, and recommend that it be published in the proceedings in order that there may be adequate information for future reference
as to Lodges and· districts which did not deem the observance of Constitution Month of sufficient importance to justify a report or to warrant a

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

617

meeting, as the case may have been. Reports, if any, received after opening
of Grand Lodge have been ignored. We suggest that they do not deserve
recognition in view of the special emphasis placed on the necessity for a
report by Septembed 30th.
Respectfully submitted,

w.

WESLEY
KERGAN,
A.
WOLLENBERG,
F. WORSWICK,
A. F. SouzA, ]R.

s.

c.

Northern Committee.
E. ANDERSON,
LEE T. Mm.LEN,
JOHN T. MARTIN,
FRED P. RouLLARD,
Southern Committee.
LEO

ROBERT

B. GAYLORD,
General Chairman.

Lodges and Districts Not Reporting
1st District: Crescent Lodge No. 45.
2nd District: Mendocino Lodge No. 179, Claiborne Lodge No. 185.
3rd District: Abell Lodge No. 146, Redwood Empire Lodge No. 683.
4th District: North Star Lodge No. 91, Evening Star Lodge No. 186.
5th District: Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297, Sisson Lodge No. 310, White
Pine Lodge No. 555.
6th District: Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281.
7th District: Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235, Adin Lodge No~ 250, North
East Lodge No. 266, Fort Crook Lodge No. 275, Canby Cross Lodge
No. 679.
(The only Lodge that reported was Alturas No. 248 and the Master
said no meeting in September would be attended due to local conditions.)
8th District: Vesper Lodge No. 84, Molino Lodge No. 150, Olivet Lodge
No. 205.
'
9th District: Lassen
Lodge No. 149.
10th District: Sincerity Lodge No. 132, Grizzly Lodge No. 601.
11th District: Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184.
12th District: Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18, Gravel Range Lodge _No.
59, Forest Lodge No. 66.
15th .District: Forbestown Lodge No. SO, Chico Lodge No. 111, North
Butte Lodge No. 230.
16th District: Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89, Nicolaus Lodge No. 129.
17th District: Arbuckle Lodge No. 182, Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271,
Maxwell Lodge No. 288.
18th District: Clear Lake Lodge No. 183, Callayomi Lodge No. 282.
19th District: Benicia L~dge No. 5, Yount Lodge No. 12, St. Helena Lodge
No. 93, Calistoga Lodge No. 233.
20th District: Elk Grove Lodge No. 173.
23rd District: Buckeye Lodge No. 195.
24th District: Georgetown Lodge No. 25.

619

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25th District: Volcano Lodge No. S6, Drytown Lodge No. 174.
27th District: East Belt Lodge No. 291.
31st District:. Suisun Lodge No. SS, Vacaville Lodge No. 134, Silveyvillc
Lodge No. 201, Rio Vista Lodge No. 208.
39th District: Alisa! Lodge No. 321.
41st District: King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.
42nd District: Alta Vista Lodge No. 464, Forest Hill Lodge No. S34.
43rd District: Starr King Lodge No. 344.
,
44th District: Richmond Lodge No. 37S.
45th District: Seal Rock Lodge No. S36, Park Lodge No. 449.
46th District: Mission Lodge No. 169, Bay City Lodge No. S26.
48th A District: Fairmount Lodge No. 43S, Alexandria Lodge No. 181,
SOth District: Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, Russian River Lodge No. 181.
Mount Jackson Lodge No. 29S.
51st District: Petaluma Lodge No. 180.
53rd District: Los Gatos Lodge No. 292, Charity Lodge No. 362.
SSth District: Texas Lodge No. 46.
56th District: Confidence Lodge No. 203, Carmel Lodge No. 680.
58th District: Hornitos Lodge No. 98, Chowchilla Lodge No. 48S.
59th District: Patterson Lodge No. 488.
60th District: Inyo Lodge No. 221, Alta Lodge No. 333, Waucoba Lodge
No. 413, Trona Lodge U. D.
61st District: Kerman Lodge No. 420.
62nd District: Fresno Lodge No. 247, Sanger Lodge No. 316.
63rd District: Reedley Lodge No. 304, Orosi Lodge No. 383, Dinuba
Lodge No. 38S.
64th District: Olive Branch Lodge No. 269, Kaweah Lodge No. 66S.
65th District: Welcome Lodge No. 2SS, Hanford Lodge No. 279, Coalinga
Lodge No. 387, Corcoran Lodge No. 490, Riverdale Lodge No. 496.
68th District: San Simeon Lodge No. 196, Arroyo Lodge No. 274, San
Miguel Lodge No. 28S, Paso Robles Lodge No. 286.
69th District: Lompoc Lodge No. 262.
81st District: Catalina Island Lodge No. S24.
82nd District: Larchmont Lodge No. 216.
88th District: Inglewood Lodge No. 421, Hermosa Lodge No. SS7, Fairview Lodge No. 629, Hawthorne Lodge No. 647.
89th District: Lancaster Lodge No. 437 (meeting held in October but
no report received).
91st District: Ramona Lodge No. 4S7.
94th District: Covina Lodge No. 334, Glendora Lodge No. 404, La Puente
Lodge No. 446, Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660.
95th District: Downey Lodge No. 220.
96th District: La Habra Lodge No. 6S9.
99th District: Lomita Lodge No. 644.
102nd District: Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Maui Lodge No. 472.
108th District: Imperial Lodge No. 390, Brawley Lodge No. 402, Holtville Lodge No. 42S, Oasis Lodge No. 664.
113th District: La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17.
No reports were received from any Lodge in Districts 31, 6S, and 113.

The recommendation for continuation of the committee was
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
request for an appropriation was referred to the Committee on
Finance.

618

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom has been referred the twentysix trial records, recommend the affirmation of nineteen of the records as
follows:
No. 968 from Landmark Lodge No. 2S3.
No. 978 from Las Palmas Lodge No. 366.
No. 979 from All States Lodge No. S93.
No. 983 from Union Lodge No. SS.
No. 98S from La Mesa Lodge No. 407.
No. 986 from Sunnyvale Lodge No. Sll.
No. 988 from Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 4S8.
No. 989 from Berkeley Lodge No. 363.
No. 990 from Menorah Lodge No. 623.
No. 991 from Menorah Lodge No. 623.
No. 992 from le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371.
No. 994 from Humboldt Lodge No. 79.
No. 99S from Florence Lodge No. 649.
No. 998 from Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331.
No. 999 from Madera Lodge No. 280.
No. 1000 from Excelsic;;r Lodge No. 166.
No. 1002 from Seal Rock Lodge No. S36.
No. 1003 from El Cajon Valley Lodge No. S76.
No. 1004 from Sun Garden Lodge No. S30.
Be It Resolved, That the findings of the Trial Commissions and · the
penalties imposed in each and all of the above numbered matters be, and
they hereby are, by this Grand Lodge, approved, ratified and affirmed.

Adopted.
Your committee, to whom was referred Trial Record Ne\. lSS, begs
leave to report as follows:
J. E. (Trial Record No. lSS) a former member of Doric Lodge
No. 216, F. & A. M., on May 8th of this year, notified his former Lodge
that he wished to be reinstated as a member of said Lodge, and on the
same day addressed a letter to Grand Lodge to the same effect.
On July 2nd our Grand Secretary notified the applicant that it would
be necessary for him to furnish Grand Lodge with a copy of the notice
which he had sent to Doric Lodge for reinstatement, whereupon, and
on July 31, 1941, the present Secretary of Doric Lodge, who was the
Junior Warden of the Lodge of which applicant was a member at the
time the charges were filed, addressed a letter to Grand Lodge acknowledging that his Lodge had received a letter from the applicant, under
· date as above stated. Our statutory requirements haye therefore been
complied with.
A review of the file indicates that on March 2, 1914, the then Junior
Warden of Doric Lodge, upon the direction of the Master thereof, filed
specifications of un-Masonic conduct against the applicant, in that on

621

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

August 11, 1913, applicant committed the crime of rape upon a girl
therein named, in Alameda County, and for which he had been arraigned
in the Police Court, and thereafter held to answer for said crime in the
Superior Court, and to which crime he had subsequently, and on the 30th
day of September, 1913, plead guilty. Thereafter, and on the 28th day of
October, 1913, he was sentenced to serve ten months in the Alameda
County jail.
It further appears from the record that· the Master of Doric Lodge,
at the time the crime was '<ommitted was and still is a very highly respected lawyer member of our Fraternity, who visited the applicant while
incarcerated in the Alameda County jail and was so impressed with his
story that he had endeavored to obtain probation for him. There was
also some indication that the young lady in question was of somewhat
[oose morals, and although this is no legal excuse for the commission
of a crime, the statute under which applicant was convicted had gone
into effect on the very day on which the offense was committed.
Furthermore, we have heard of no opposition to this application for
reinstatement.
Applicant has filed with your committee several recommendatory
letters, including one from a Past Master of Fairmount Lodge, and members of other Lodges, all of which speak in the very highest terms as to
applicant's honesty, integrity, sobriety, and upright character. One of the
letters describes him as a "square, honest, sober, and typical good
American family man, ambitious, and worthy of trust." He is steadily
employed and gives abundant evidence to the satisfaction of your Committee that he is fully rehabilitated, has paid his penalty to society, and
will undoubtedly make a very good member of our Fraternity in the future.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption :
In the matter of the application of J. E. (Trial Record No. 155)
expelled May 4, 1914, for re-instatement to Doric Lodge No. 216, F. &
A. M., your committee moves that said application be granted.

In 1941 he petitioned his Lodge for restoration to membership. In
accordance with the provisions of Section 343, notice having been d~ly
and regularly given, the Lodge, by unanimous vote, passed a resolution
restoring him to membership.
Your committee is of the opinion that this brother has demonstrated
his rehabilitation as a citizen and a Mason. We therefore recommend the
following resolution:
Be It Resolved, That the action of Laure~ Lodge No. 245, in restoring
V. D. D. G. to all the rights and privileges of Masonry be a nd the same
is hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

620

Report of the committee was adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred a petition for
restoration in Record No. 616, begs leave to report as follows:
The petitioner was expelled in 1929 as a result of the alteration of
certain financial records of a bank.
Your committee has examined a large number of recommendatory
letters from reputable sources which demonstrate the complete rehabilitation of petitioner.
We have been unable to get in touch with representatives of Alamo
Lodge until this afternoon, when we were informed that this brother
has not as yet made proper restitution. In view of the limited time
involved, your committee is unable to determine this essential question.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Be It Resolved, That the petition of J . M . J. for restoration be denied
without prejudice.

Report was adopted.
Your. Committee on Grievances, to whom has been referred Trial
Record No. 749, beg leave to report as follows:
The accused was suspended July .2. 1932, for un-Masonic conduct.

Adopted.
your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 987, reports as follows :
Accused, an entered apprentice Mason, was charged with un-Masonic
conduct in one specification, that, in his petition for the Degree~ of .Masonry, which was presented about Apri~ 23, 1940, h~ made c7rtam willful
misrepresentations in that he answered m the neg~tlv~, questions 8 and .9
of the petition-have you ever presented an apphcat10n t? any Masonic
Lodge and, have you ever been rejected by an~ Masonic L?dge; that
in his said petition he answered in the affirmatrv:e the q~es~tons-have
you read all the questions contained in the f_o;egomg application, are all
of your answers thereto in your own handwntmg and do you, upon your
honor, declare your foregoing statements to be true. However, the reco~ds
of the office of the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of New Mexico
show that, on September 3, 1931, accused petitioned Temple Lodge No. 6,
Albuquerque, New Mexico, and he was rejected.
In answer to the charge, accused stated that he ha.d petitioned to
become a Mason and contacted the Secretary of a Lodge m Albuquerque,
New Mexico. "I' didn't make out a petition and didn't know if the Secretary did. I told some gentlemen (giving names of thr.ee perso~s), I would
like to put my petition into McKinley Lodge and smce I dtd not know
my status, they said I should put " No" on the petition.
The three persons referred to in the testimony of the accused we~e
called as witnesses at his trial. All three of them were members of Masonic
Lodges but none of them was a member of McKinley Lodge.
The first to give his testimony stated that he did not. assi~t accused
to make out his petition. The other two, members of California Lodges,
testified as follows :
The first, after stating that he was a member of Bay View Lodge
No. 401, thus testified:
Q. " Is it true that you assisted accused to fill out his petition?"
A. " Yes."
Q. "Is it true that you told accused to answer these two questions,
that is Nos. 8 and 9, by No?"
A. "Yes."
Q. "Is it true that accused told you he did not know he had ~een
rejected, and that you said it would be proper to answer these two questions
by putting No?"
A. "Yes-under certain circumstances."
Q. "What do you mean by under certain circumstances ?"
A. "At the time he made his petition out, he stated he did not know
whether or not he had been rejected. I told him to answer No, and leave

622

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it up to the Investigating Committee of the Lodge to ascertain the facts."
Q. "What gave you the idea that the Investigating Committee would
ascertain the facts?"
A. "My understanding has been that each petition is investigated
through all Grand Lodges throughout the country."
The other witness, after stating that he was a member of Sun Garden
Lodge No. 530, stated in part as follows:
Q. "Did you assist in filling out accused's petition?"
A. "Yes."
Q. "Did you know that accused had petitioned a Lodge in New
Mexico?"
A. "I didn't know where he had, but he read the question to me and
said 'Bill, I don't know what to answer.' As he was filling out the application, and said he didn't know what to answer, as he didn't know if he
was r.ejected or not, I asked him if he knew the name of the Lodge, and
he said no. I told him not to fill it out, as the Investigating Comm.ittee
would then find it out. I thought by doing this the Grand Lodge would
be able to furnish or get this information. I remember very clearly that
it should be left to the committee to find out whether he had been rejected
or not. I also asked him if he ever got a notice from the Lodge he
petitioned before and he said no. Also asked him if he received ttis money
back and he answered that he didn't know whether he got it or not."
Q. "Then your answer is that you knew he had petitioned a Lodge
before?"
A. "Yes, but didn't know if he had been rejected or not."
Q. "Did you tell him to write 'No' to these questions?"
A . "No. I told him not to fill.it out until he found out."
The portion of the testimony just quoted does not justify accused
in answering the questions falsely nor does it excuse him from adequate
punishment at the hands of the Trial Committee. The circumstances
surrounding its signing, in the judgment of this committee makes it inequitable for accused to be expelled and suffer, what might be termed, the
extreme punishment.
This committee has almost uniformly recommended to Grand Lodge
in cases such as this where there have been misstatements in applications
for Degrees that the punishment should be fixed at suspension, rather
than expulsion and in the instant case we believe that we are fully justified
in recommending reduction of the penalty and fixing it at suspension.
We cannot refrain from commenting upon the action of the two
brothers who presumed to give accused advice relative in the preparation
and signing of his petition. The testimony of both displays a woeful lack
of understanding not only of the English language but also the duties
of a Mason relative to petition for degrees. Although this statement of
the committee may do little practical good we hope it is not amiss.
to make these comments.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, That the action of McKinley Lodge No. 347, in finding the
accused guilty of the charge and of un-Masonic conduct be and the same
is hereby approved and affirmed but the sentence imposed by the Trial
Commission be reduced from expulsion to suspension

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 993, begs leave to report as follows:
On November 6, 1940, the Junior Warden of Crockett Lodge No. 139,
by direction of the Master thereof, charged Brother A. ] . S., a Past
Master of said Lodge, with un-Masonic conduct on two specifications,
to-wit:
First: That in. April, .1930, he accepted from the daughter of a deceased fon;ner Secretary of said Lodge, the sum of $1,100 or thereabouts,
for the purpose of investing said money for her account in shares of the
capital stock of the Pacific Gas & Electric Company and to hold the said
sum of money, or the shares of stock in trust for the use and benefit of
said inmate of the Masonic Home at Decoto. That in violation of his
trust, said accused brother had dissipated said money and appropriated
the same to his own use and contrary to the wishes and desires and
instructions of the aforesaid inmate of the Masonic Home at Decoto.
Second: That the accused had conspired with said inmate and connived at the retention by her, contrary to the rules of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, by accepting the money in
specification No. 1 and not advising the Board of Trustees of said
Masonic Homes of California, which resulted m depriving the Board of
Trustees of the said sum of money.
It should be here added that the inmate in question had been admitted to the Masonic Home while the accused was Master of the Lodge.
In view of the fact that the charge involved a Past Master of Crockett
Lodge, the officers thereof were somewhat embarrassed at the prospect of
trying one of their own Past Masters and thereupon requested our Most
Worshipful Grand Master to designate some other Lodge for the purpose
of hearing the charges. The Most Worshipful Grand Master thereupon
requested Bethlehem Lodge No. 453 to hear and determine the charges.
Your committee has examined the minutes of the meeting for election
of Commissioners, the record of the trial proceedings, issuance and service
of Summons, and the regularity of the trial, with all of which your committee is in full accord.
The accused appeared before the Commissioners and admitted that
he had taken the money in question and contrary to the rules and
regulations concerning inmates of the Masonic Home at Decoto, but
endeavored to excuse his actions upon a plea of lack of intention to
commit a fraud upon the inmate of the Home, or the Fraternity in general.
The Trial Commissioners were evidently not ·impressed ·with that explanation and thereupon found the accused guilty as charged, recommended
suspension, and thereafter and on April 1, 1941, he was ordered suspended.
With this latter portion of the proceedings your committee cannot
agree, as this committee has invariably recommended expulsion on account
of embezzlement of funds and has generally been sustained by Grand
Lodge. For the foregoing reason your committee believes that the
penalty should have been fixed at expulsion rather than suspension.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
In the matter of trial record No. 993, wherein one A. J. S. of Crockett
Lodge No. 139 is the accused, your committee recommends that all steps.
and proceedings in the trial of said accused be ratified and confirmed, save
and except that the penalty be raised from suspension to expulsion.

Adopted.

Adopted.

623

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Grievances begs leave to report as follows on
Case No. 997 :
The accused was found guilty of living and cohabiting with a woman
not his wife. Because of the separation of the accused and his wife this.
conduct on his part continued over a considerable period of time.
In legal proceedings between the accused and his wife in the Superior
Court the above-mentioned facts were admitted and the case resulted in
a great deal of notoriety.
The Trial Commission found the accused guilty of several specifications of adultery, and fixed the penalty at suspension.
We are in entire agreement with the findings of guilty. One could
hardly imagine a case in which the conduct of a man was more brazen,
open, and notorious than was the admitted conduct of the accused in this
case. There can be no justification or excuse for adultery on the part of
any Master Mason. Open and notorious adultery on the part of any of
our members must inevitably bring reproach upon our Fraternity. Such
conduct cannot be excused or condoned or justified.
Therefore we cannot agree with the penalty of suspension, as fixed
by the Trial Commission. We are all of the opinion that this penalty must
and should be raised to expulsion. Your committee therefore recommends
the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That the action of Marin Lodge No. 191 in finding the
accused guilty of the charge of un-Masonic conduct be, and the same is
hereby approved and confirmed, but that the sentence imposed by the
Trial Commission be modified by changing the same to expulsion from
all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

wife would mend the clothes of accused, replace a missing button and so on.
Accused was fond of accuser's two children and apparently they of him.
All parties seemed to have enjoyed the existing friendship. Accused's wife
developed a nervous disorder. A doctor advised against keeping a boarder
in the house. Accused offered to leave but the husband dissuaded him
and sought his help in working out a recovery from the wife's "illness.
The wife desired to .take a trip to visit her parents in the East. The
accused was going to visit his parents in Oklahoma City. The wife and
the accused traveled East to Omaha by accused's auto. She then went
on by train and accused went to Oklahoma. They met and came back
together. This trip was with the entire knowledge and consent of the
husband, he paying part of the gas and oil charges, as otherwise accused
would have gone by train. On their return some trouble seems to have
developed. Accused moved out of the home but later returned at the
husband's insistance and with the approval of the Master of the Lodge
to whose attention the matter had been brought. A few days later he
again left at the wife's order.
While in Oklahoma, the accused wrote some letters to the wife dealing
in part with arrangements fo,r the return trip. In them were some expressions of affectipn which would have been better left unwritten. They are
susceptible of different interpretations. Accused categorically denied any
effort to alienate the wife's affections or to disturb accuser's family relation.
He does not seem to have done either. In fact, he is not so charged but
only with the attempt. Aside from the letters there appears to have been
nothing in the relations of accused and accuser's wife of which the accuser
did not have full knowledge. No clandestine meetings were shown nor
any other acts of affection other than mere association.
The Trial Commissioners, nine in number, heard the evidence, saw
the parties, read the letters, listened to the explanations made and found
accused not guilty on the six specifications in questiQll. Had a contrary
finding been made, we would be loath to sustain it.
We are unwilling to recommend that the Trial Commission be overruled.
We, therefore, offer the fo.llowing resolution and move its adoption:
Be It Resolved, That the finding of the Trial Commission and the fixing
of the penalty at reprimand in trial record No. 1001 be and the same
hereby is ratified and affirmed.
Respectfully submitted,

624

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 1001, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused, one L. E. G., was charged with un-Masonic conduct
as set forth in seven specifications. The first six of these specifications,
in substance allege that the accused attempted to win the affections of
the accuser's wife, attempted to alienate her affections and attempted to
disrupt accuser's home. Of these the accused was found not guilty.
The seventh specification charged accused, in substance, with having
lied to the accuser by asserting that he had never written accuser's wife
more than one letter. By a divided vote the accused was found guilty
of this specification. By a vote of five to four he was found guilty of
Un-Masonic conduct and by a unanimous vote of the Trial Commission
the penalty was fixed at reprimand. The accuser has appealed and
accuser's counsel urges in his brief that the accused should be found guilty
of the first six specifications and expelled.
Your committee has carefully studied this record of over one hundred
pages. We nnd ourselves in entire accord with the findings of the Trial
Com"mission and · feel that the penalty of reprimand is ample for the
single specification of which the accused was found guilty.
It would be impossible with any due regard for time to review in
detail all the evidence in the case. However, we will set forth a very
brief summary thereof. Accuser and accused are members of the same
Lodge. Accused was a roomer in the home of accuser and also boarded
there to the extent of the morning and evening meal. The three parties
involved became· close friends. They spent considerable time of evenings
together in the home, played cards and attended social functions. Accuser's

625

FRANK B. BELCHER,
How ARD P. NOYES,
A. W. BROUILLET,
HARRY PLATT,
OLIN L. BERRY,
Lours DRAPEAU,
DWIGHT STEPHENSON,

Committee.

Adopted.

626

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Control is pleased to submit a report of the activities
coming under its supervision during the past Masonic year.
Before doing so, however, it desires to call to the attention of our
brethren the great loss that has been sustained by Masonry due to the
passing of our beloved Brother Frank Tade.
In all things of life, he was earnest and sincere, he was loyal and
kindly, he was charitable, and he was a good Mason. He was an outstanding member of the Board of Control. We shall greatly miss the value
of his strong personality and sage advice for many years to come.
Our appreciation is expressed to the Grand Master, also to the Grand
Secretary and his assistants for the information and assistance given to
us. The splendid co-operation between the Board of Control, and the
Boards of Relief and individual Lodges continues with gratifying results.
While all justified relief has been freely extended; nevertheless, due to the
proper handling of such cases, the Grand Lodge is called upon to make
reimbursements in the very small amounts mentioned below.
Meetings
'The Board held one meeting on February 1, 1941, in Los Angeles.
It had several conferences by mail during the year and a special meeting
with Secretaries of Boards of Relief and Managers of Employment
Bureaus, October 15, 1941 (during Grand Lodge).
Members of the Board of Control also attended Annual Board of
Relief and Employment Bureau Breakfasts at Long Beach, San Diego,.
Los Angeles, Fres.no, Sacramento, and Oakl~nd.
Reimbursements
We have recommended to the Finance Committee that the following
requests for reimbursements be granted:
Los Angeles Board of RelieL .........;.............................................$ 67.00
Sacramento Board of Relief... ...~ ..................................................... 100.00
San Bernardino Board of Relief........................,........................... 51.00
East Bay Masonic Board of Relief.............................................. 180.00
Total ..........................._. .....................................................".........$398.00
Employment Service
The upswing in many lines of business and industry occasioned by the
Preparedness Progra111 has had great influence in reducing unemployment
and our seven employment services have taken full advantage of the
·s ituatimi, not only to place our brethren in jobs, but to assist them in
securing better jobs.
Necessary Priority Orders from our Government have also · affected
many businesses, causing a shifting of jobs. Our Employment Bureaus
have been very active in assisting our brethren under these circumstances.
There is nothing which brings more. happiness to anyone than to be
able to provide the necessities of life and some of the luxuries for those
dear to him, as evidenced by the many letters of appreciation received by
' all employment managers.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

627

That employers also value our services is evidenced by the many
letters of appreciation on file.
The number of applications received from our unemployed brethren
this fiscal year was 23,826,. and the number of jobs secured totaled 18,368,
a 35% increase in applications and a 51 % increase in jobs over last year.
As expected, employers' requests for help likewise increased-24,194
as compared to 14,836 the previous y ear.
The expense for the year was $32,642.46, of which Grand L odge
appropriated $15,400.00 or 47%, the other 53% being provided by the
Lodges and other Masonic bodies served.
The average cost per job hit a mark so low that it may never be
equaled, $1.78 as compared to $2.53 last year .
Had these jobs been secured through .private fee-charging agencies,
our needy brethren wou ld have paid out more t han a quarter of a m illion
dollars. We spent only $32,642.46 in producing these outstanding results
an d t he investment made by Grand Lodge was 84 cent s per placement.
We feel that the men and women employees in this work merit and
need every assistance the brethren of the jurisdiction can give them.
Remember that it is the little things that count, words of good will a nd
encouragement regarding this great Masonic work are of considerable
help. This job of spreading happiness through employment is one th at
every member can participate in and it pays big dividends.
Gratifying Words from the Philippine Islands
Antonio Gonzales, P.G.M ., Grand Secretary of Grand ·Lodge, F . &
A. M., Philippine Islands, writes: " I read about the great success of your
Masonic Employment Service. Inasmuch as we would like to institute
the same service in our Grand Jurisdiction under p lans carried out by your
Grand Lodge, would you be kind enough to please give us all the infor matio n about the work." Information was furnished to him and a very
appreciative reply was received.
Appropriations
We have recommended to the Finance Committee that the follow ing
appropriations be made for Employment Bureau Service of the different
Boards of Relief. There have been, in certain cases, unusual circumstances
which have affected the amounts mentioned. Every consideration, however, has been given to each case. The following recommendations for
appropriations for 1941-42 have been made:
Fresno ·······································" ·································
Long Beach .............................:..................................$?~000.00
Special .........................,...... ~······'·············-········· 200.00

$

500.00

2,200.00
Los Angeles ....,........................., ......................:.......... 4,800.00
Special ..............., ........., ........................................ 3,000.00
7,800.00
East Bay ......................................................................
Sacramento ....................................·'······.········'············
Special ·················································-·············

2,400.00
900.00
200.00
1,100.00

628

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Diego ..................................................... ::-. ............ 1,200.00
Special .................................................................. 600.00
1,800.00
San Francisco .................. :........................................... 2,800.00
Special ................................................................... 200.00

Other Lodges in the United States ........................... .
Funeral reimbursements ............................................. .
Individual reimbursements ......................................... .
Miscellaneous income ................................................... .

85.00
200.00
45.00
89.50

968.51

Total balance on hand and receipts ........................................ $ 1,165.52
3,000.00

Total.. ......................................................... .

629

Disbursemen ts
For relief .............................. c•••••••••••• ; ••••: •••• _ •••••••••••••••••••$
For expenses ................................................................... .

392.36
887.90

$ 1,280.26

$18,800.00

Detail figures are being furnished the Grand Secretary forming a part
of this report.
Respectfully submitted,

s.

EUGENE
ELKUS,
JAMES R. ERSKINE,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
WM. T. WHEELING,
]ACK
BUTLER,

c.

Balance as of July 31, 1941, shows ................... .
(Excess of disbursements over receipts)

$

114.74

Glendale:
Balance on hand as per last report .................................................. $
Receipts ................................................................................................. .

165.05
550.00

Total balance on hand and receipts .......................................... $
Disbursements ..................................................................................... .

715.05
544.57

Balance on hand July 31, 1941............•..................................... $

170.48

\

Committee.

Recommendations for appropriations were referred to the
Committee on Finance; the balance of the report was adopted.

SUMMARY OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
Alameda:
Balance on hand as per last report .......................................................... $35.43
Receipts .......................................................................................................... 19.50
Total balance on hand and receipts ....................... :........................ 54.93
Disbursements .............................................................................................. 19.50
Balance on hand July 31, 1941................................................................$35.43
Bakersfield: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Senior \Vardens of four Lodges and meets quarterly. There is one paid employee,
the Secretary, who receives $10.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer
are bonded in the sum of $500.00 each.
.
Balance on hand as per last report ........................................................ $ 97.21
Receipts (per capita assessment) ........................................................ 316.75
Tc;ital balance on hand and receipts .... :........................ ,.............. $413.96
Disbursements ............................................................................................ 315.00
B~lance cash on hand July 31, 1941.......................,........... :.................. $ 98.96

Fresno: Board of Relief is composed of three members each of four
Lodges and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary,
who receives $75.00 per month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of
$1,000.00. Fidelity insurance and compensation also is carried.
$ 197.01
Balance on hand as per last report ............................. .
Receipts
Per capita assessmenL ..................................................$
California Lodges ··················································:·······

463.25
85.76 .

Honolulu: Board of Relief is composed of four Lodges and meets
monthly. No paid employees. Treasurer's bond is in the sum of $500.00.
Balance on hand as per last report .................................................. $ 1,489.62
Receipts
California Lodges ........... ,........ ,................................ ,....$
Other Lodges in the United States ........................... .
Interest on savings deposits ........................................

7.24
333.60
22.84

36M8

Total balance on hand and receipts ...: .............. ~ .................. $ 1,853.30
Disbursements
For relief ............................., ............................................ $
For expenses ................................................ :............, ... .

333.44
43.29

376.73

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941............................•................. $ 1,476.57
Bonds on hand July 31, 1941..........................................................$ 2,097.13
Long Beach: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of
each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, the Secretary, who receives $150.00 per month, and assistant, $15.00. The Secretary
and Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500.00 each. Compensation and
auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report ... :........................
$ 1,549.56
Receipts
Per capita assessment ......... ;...................... ;.................$ 2,271.38
California Lodges . ........................................................
37.50
Other Lodges in the United States ... :........................ 1,326.00
Foreign Lodges ................................... ~..........................
100.00
Funeral reimbursements ............................ ~................
251.42
Interest··················;···························································
81.41

4,067.71

Total balance on hand and receipts .......... c••••••••••••••••••••••••• $ 5,617.27

630

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements
For relief •.......................................,.....:................:.....:....$ 1,799.82
For expenses ·································································' 1,783.36

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pasadena:
Balance on hand as per last report.. ......................,......................$
3,583.18

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941.-..................................$ 2,034.09
Los Angeles: Board of Relief is composed of members from each
Lodge and meets monthly. There are three paid employees, a Secretary
at a salary of $250.00 per month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100.00
per month, and a field man at a salary of $175.00 per month. The Secretary
and the Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000.00 each. Fidelity insurance and carrier pnd compensation and auto insurance are carried. One
automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report ... _.......................
$ 5,677.73

Receipts
Per capita assessment ...................................................:$15,603.24
From non-member Lodges..........................................
67.00
· California Lodges .......................................................... 7,560.35
Other Lodges in the United States.....:.................... 14,331.50
Foreign Lodges ..............................................................
933.22
Interest ..............................................................................
95.10
Return insurance premium..........................................
2.12

38,592.53

40,126.12

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941....•........ ..;.~ .... ,............:...$ 4,144.14
Oakland and Berkeley: Board of Relief is composed of members from
each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a Secretary at a salary of $2,012.50 per annum; and Assistant Secretary, $600.00.
· Treasurer is bonded in the sum of $2,000.00. Compensation and auto
insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report............................
$12,936.28

Receipts
Per capita a~essment .................................................... $ 5,147.08
Grand Lodge of California............................................
180.00
California Lodges .......................................................... 2,118.03
Other Lodges in the United States.................- .........
969.00
60.00
Foreign Lodges ....................:.......................................
Funeral reimbursements...............................................
388.00
23.00
Individual reimbursements ..........................................
Interest .......... !.....: ..... _.d...................................................
245.91
25.41
Miscellaneous refunds ..................................................
483.52
Transfer ·······································~···································

Receipts ···································-····················-········································

602.45
1,458.50

Total balance on hand and receipts ....................................$ 2,060.95
Disbursements ............................................................:......................... 1,519.00
Balance on hand July 31, 1941.......~ ........................................$

541.95

Richmond: Board of Relief is composed of officers of each Lodge and
meets at call of President. There are no paid employees.
Balance on hand as per last report ..........................................:.........$
12.77
Receipts ..................................................................................:............... None
Total balance on hand and receipts .........:..........................
12.77
Disbursements ......................................................................................
9.50
Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941.-......................................$

Total b.a lance on hand and receipts ........ :.............................$44,270.26

Disbursements
For relief ..........................................................................$301125.00
For expenses .................................................................. 10,001.12

631

3.27

Sacramento : Board of Relief is composed of three members from each
Lodge. There are two paid employees, a Secretary and part-time assistant.
The total salary is $870.00 per annum. The Secretary is bonded in the sum
of $500.00.
$ 2,238.45
~alance on hand as per last report.........:..................

Receipts
Per capita assessment .......................:....................... _...$ 1,770.20
285.20
Breakfast Club ................................................................
852.55
California Lodges ..........................................................
Other L odges in the United States............................
13.00
Foreign L odges ..............................................................
62.85
Funeral reimbursements ..............................................
930.13
87.82
Individual reimbursements ·········································'
26.98
Interest ...............................:............................................

4,030.73

Total balance on hand and receipts ....................................$ 6,269.18

Disbursements
For relief ..............:..............................:............................$ 2,450.77
For expenses .................................................................. 1,561.72

4,012.49

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941......................................$ 2,256.69
San Bernardino:
Balance on hand as per last report ............................

9,639.95

Total balance on hand and receipts ........... :..........................$22,576.23
Disbursements
For relief ................:............,.....•.,,........ _.................:,.......$ 4,469.37
For expenses ................................................................•... 3,603.31
8,072.68

Receipts
Grand Lodge of California.............................'•............$
California Lodges ....................................·......................
O ther Lodges in the Unite<;! States ............................
Dividend from defunct bank.................................c••••••
Individual reimbursements ........................................
Interest ............................................................................

$
16.39
87.50
377.45
26.11
4.16
1.77

Total balance on hand and receipts ......................................$
Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941......................................$14,503.55

347.46

513.38 '
860.84

632

Balance on hand as per last r~port ................................................$
Receipts ································--··-·----··-·--····-······--·-------····························-

Disbursements

;~~ :~~e:n~~~--~:::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$

633

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

516.53
9.89

$

526.42

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941....... :..............................$

3.14.42

San Diego: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
and. meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who
receives a salary of $810.00 per year. Fidelity and carrier insurance is
carried. One automobile is used.
$ 1,464.86
Balance on hand as per last report·-··-··--------··----··-··--

R eceipts
Per capita assessment.. ................................................$ 1,524.91
Grand Lodge of California......................................... . 1,200.00
California· Lodges ...... :...................................................
370.49
Other Lodges in the United States............................ 1,128.06
322.32
Funeral reimbursements ········--···--···········-···-··-·--·-·····-44.25
Individual reimbursements ····--···-············-····--··--·········
14.72
Interest ·-··-·················-····-·-----········-···········-··-·····-·····--·-···
18.00
Miscellaneous income ··································-·····----······

Total balance on hand and receipts ....................................$ 6,087.61
Disbursements ······-···-·······-·-·················-·········-···--······················
4,239.52
Balance on hand July 31, 1941................................................$ 1,848.09
San Francisco: Board of Relief is composed of Master or representative
of ea'ch Lodge and . meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a
Secretary, whb receives a salary of $250.00 per month, and a typist or
clerk, w~o receives $40.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are
bonded 10 the sum of $2,000.00 each. Fidelity and carrier insurance and
compensation insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report............................

$14,992.57

Receipts
Per capita assessment ....................................................$ 4,525.50
Grand Lodge of California..........................................
77.28
California Lodges ·········-·-··-·······················-········-·········· 1,303.65
Other Lodges in the United States............................ 2,557.35
Foreign Lodges ······-·······-·························--····-·····-·········
17.28
Interest ········-···.-········································-·····-················
723.64

Balance on hand July 31, 1941..................................................$

666.79

Santa Barbara:
Balance on hand as per last report.. ................................................$

55.88

Receipts
Per capita assessn1ent ....................................................$
California Lodges ·········--·-················-·········--···-·············
Other Lodges in the United States ....c•••••••••••••••••••••••
Individual reimbursements .........:..............................

107.00
22.00
240.00
55.00

Disbursements
For relief .......................·---·······--······-·······'·-·············--·······$
For expenses ....................................................................

424.00
479.88

311.00
121.50 $

432.50

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941......................................$

47.38

Santa Monica: Board of Relief is composed of members of each · Lodge
and holds three meetings per month. There is one paid employee, a
Secretary, who receives $180.00 per annum. The Secretary and Treasurer
are bonded in the amount of $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last report ..................................................$ 172.76
Receipts ·----·········-·················-··········-··················-···········-····················-···
527.69
Total cash on hand and receipts ............................................... .
Disbursements ·········-·-··-······-···························-·----·················-··--·········

700.45
572.85

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941........................................$

127.60

Stockton: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
meets monthly. There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives a
salary, including expenses, of $80.00 per annum. One auto is used.
Balance on hand as per last report ................................................ None
Receipts ................................................~ ..................... ,,..~·····:·-.-··~···~~---·$ 460. 56
9,204.70

Total balance on hand and receipts....................
~ ......'.............$24,197.27
.
.

Disbursements

; ~~ ;:~:~~~~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.:::::::::::::$ ::~~~:~~

Total balance on hand and receipts ..........................................$ 1,437.08
Disbursements ··············-.--····-················-·-··········-····-··-····--······-··-··-····--·
770.29

Total balance on hand and receipts ......................................$

4,622.75

539.55
897.53

9,785.01

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1941........................................$14,412.26
San Jose: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of
five Lodges an~ meets quarterly. There is one paid employee, the Secre- ·
tary, who receives a salary of $50.oo· per month. The Secretary and
Treasurer are bonded in the amount of $500.00 each. Auto insurance is
carried. One automobile is used.

Total balance on hand and receipts ......................................$
Disbursements ·········-··········-·······-··················-·-·····················--·····-····-··

460.56
408.44

Balance on hand July 31 , 1941...........................................,.......$

52.12

634

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GENERAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to submit the following report:
Audit of Accounts
Your committee has again employed Brother Floyd F. Webb of the
firm of Ruckstell, Burrows and Webb, certified public accountants, to
· examine the books and records of the Grand Treasurer, the Grand Secretary, the Masonic Homes of California and the Endowment Fund. The
·reports of Brother Webb's examination of these records have been filed
with your committee and have had its consideration. These reports are
now on file with the records of G~and Lodge. They indicate that all
records are correct and in proper shape and all receipts properly accounted
for · and all expendi~ures properly made.
Your committee is again mindful of the debt it owes Brother Webb
for the personal interest he has shown in making the various audits because
of hi·s membership in the Fraternity and his interest is more than usual
in this work. He has given the Fraternity an unusual service for the
fee allowed.
The total amount paid for the audit this year is $700.00 of which
sum the Homes has paid $550.00 and the balance of $150.00 has been
paid out of Grand Lodge funds.
Grand Lodge Week Activities
Your committee has had a discussion with the chairman of the Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities, who has furnished us an estimate
of the cost of entertainment which this committee has provided for the
members who are attending this session of Grand Lodge. Necessarily, the
best that the Activities Committee can do at this time is to furnish an
estimate of the costs, as it is impossible to determine the actual amount
of expenditure until all activities are over and all bills are actually presented.
As has been stated in previous reports, the Finance Committee is in
entire accord with the pl~n of providing the representatives attending
Grand Lodge some entertainment. It is. also to be noted that a part of
the duties which had been assigned to this committee are the arrangements
for the transportation for the trip to the Decoto Home.
. That there should be extensive visitations 'to the home is earnestly
desirable, according to our opinion. We are, t.h erefore, very much in
accord with the expenses incurred in providing for these visitations. The
Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities has a difficult duty to perform. It is our opinion that this committee has fulfilled its obligations in
a most creditable manner. You who partook of the entertainment last
night already know that it was entirely developed by the Committee on
Activities and presented by members of the Craft. The chairman of the
committee, Brother A lfred F. Breslauer, is entitled to particular commendation for the preparation and development of this entertainment.
There was appropriated at the last session for the p urpose of defraying
the expenses o'f . this entertainment, as well as a trip to the Homes, the
sum of $2,500.00. According to the best estimates the Activities Committee
is able to furnish at this time, it is believed that this sum will not be
exceeded, and if so only slightly. If there should be any amount expended

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

635

above the amount of the appropriation we ~pprove this additional expenditure and recommend that the Grand Secretary pay the same.
We are of the opinion that the same amount which was appropriated
last year .s hould again be . appropriated. We therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved That the sum of $2,500, or as much thereof as may be necessary to pay' the expenses incurred by the Grand Lodge Week Activities
Committee, be, and the same is hereby appropriated out of the funds of
Grand Lodge, and that the same be allocated to the payment of ~he
expenses incurred in the entertainment ·of officers and members attending
the next annual communication of Grand Lodge.
Masonic History
Your committee has had a discussion with Brother Mark Sawrie, a
member of the Masonic·• History Committee, concerning the work this
committee is planning on doing this coming year, as well as the amount
that it will need to perform the work it has in anticipation. It is to be
noted that while the committee has continued its activities for the past
year and has done considerable valuable work in collecting historical data
of the fraternity, but that only $114.09 of the appropriation of $250.00 made
last year has been expended by the committee. This is in keeping with
the record which this committee has made in the past, and that is, that
much has been accomplished in seeking out and ·w riting up the early
history of Masonry in California, and that the cost to Grand Lodge of
this work has been modest indeed.
The History Committee is to be commended for its constant an.d
painstaking efforts in carefully digging up the real facts on Masonic
History and also for the moderate demands it has made f~r fund~ in
seeking and compiling this history. As has been expressed in previous
reports, the Finance Committee is still in favor of encouraging the History
Committee and its work. Vv" e are also in accord with the modest amount
which the committee is asking from Grand Lodge this year and therefore
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved That the sum of. $250.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodg~ to defray expenses which may be incurred by the com1?1ittee
in compiling and preparing additional information gathered on the history
of Masonry in California.
Masonic Education
The chairman, Brother Reynold E . Blight of the Committee on
Masonic Education, appeared before this committee and gave a ~omplete
outline of his plans for the activities of the committee for the coming 3'.ear.
Brother Blight expressed a wish that the designation of the com.m1ttee
should be to Masonic Information· instead of as it now reads. While the
approval of this change is, no doubt, the province of the C?mmittee on
Policy and General Purpose, and yet the members of the ~inance Committee feel that it will not be out of order to express their approval o.f
this change.
.
The committee was also impressed with the plan of this committee
for the coming year. It is recognized by. ali, however, that the plan is on
trial. It is therefore thought that the Masters of the several Lodges sh?uld
avail themselves of the information being furnished . by this committee
and make an effort to determine how effective the new plan seems to be
so that it may be determined whether it shall be followed in future years
or some other one worked out. We commend this recommendation to the
Masters present.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The chairman of the committee expressed the hope that he would be
able to accomplish the purposes he has in mind with an appropriation of
$500.00, and your Committee on Finance is in accord with this recommendation.
We therefore recommend that the sum of $500.00 be appropriated out
of the funds of Grand Lodge to defray the expenses of the Education
Committee in further promoting its educational plan.

theme rather than to a promotional or quota drive for fu nds. This is a
practical application of the principal, that information precedes inspiration.
Despite all of the pamphlets which have been issued and all of the
personal work which has been done, apparently too many of us are
unaware of the value and importance of the Fund. This is emphasized
by a glance at last year's " Report of Contributions to E ndowment F un d."
Lodges, generally, with four, five and six residents in. the Homes gave
small amounts regardless . of good sized memberships. On the whole,
only 5.25% of the Craft responded. Surely we have not yet caught the
vision. Perhaps some of us have hesitated about contributing because
we were unable to give as much as we should have liked. Shall we remember the lesson of the widow's mite? Small amounts make surprising
totals and are always helpful. We should all help according to our abi lities.
A broad base of support assures a stronger and more permanent foundation
and structure.
The character, integrity and consecration of the personnel of this
Board gives us great hope and confidence in the future. We commend
the zeal and devotion of each . member of the Board, and especially its
chairman, Frank M. Smith, in attaining such satisfactory results and
recommend that the Grand Lodge continue its investment in this going
enterprise.
We offer th e following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $6,000 be appropriated from the general
funds of Grand Lodge for the use of the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board during this fiscal Masonic year.

636

University of California Clubhouses
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the reports of the Trustees
of our Masonic Clubhouses, giving a resume of the activities for the past
year. We have also studied the financial statements prepared by public
accountant.
It is the opinion of your committee that the business affairs and the
expenditure of funds at the clubhouses have the constant and careful
supervision of the Trustees. We are further convinced the Trustees are
conscious of the fact that only through the continued active use of the
clubhouses to their fullest extent by students attending these universities
can they fulfill the purpose for which they were brought into being. ·
We commend the attention of the clubhouses to the officers and
representatives assembled at this Grand Lodge, with the request that they
go back to their Lodges and inform their membership of these two fine
institutions. We urge you to recommend to your -members when they
have a son or daughter entering either the U niversity at Berkeley or Los
Angeles, their first point of contact on the campus should be the Masonic
Clubhouse.
The budgets covering operating expenses for the coming year submitted by the Trustees have been considered by your Committee on
Finance, and we, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $15,000 be appropriated from the funds of
the Grand Lodge for the maintenance of the Masonic Clubhouses $7,500
to be paid to the Trustees of the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley and
$7,500 to be paid to the Trustees of the Masonic Clubhouse at Los Angeles.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Your attention is directed to the "Report of Masonic Homes Endowment Board"-a report which contains good news, inspiration and a story
of accomplishments that is gratifying.
. Each Master and delegate present is urged to study the well written,
interesting and carefully prepared report with the. purpose pf bringing it
to the attention of the brethren of his own Lodge.
·
Did you know that in 1941 this Fund earned $42,047.76, which, together
with other accrued income, was transferred to the Masonic Homes General
Fund? Otherwise a 35-cent per capita gift would have been required for
each Master Mason: This substantial financial amount, in itself, is worth
while aside from the spiritual satisfaction experienced in maintaining the
·splendid service of the Homes.
$89,131.10 in addition was added to the Endowment Fund principal
through gifts and profitable disposal of securities. We are greatly indebted
to our beloved Grand Treasurer, Wm. P. Filmer, for a net profit of
$18,001.19, due to his ability and diligence in handling the securities.
The Board, this year, "adhered to its stated policy of encouraging
purely voluntary contributions and dedicated its services to the educational

637

Masonic Homes
Your Committee on Finance to which was referred that portion o f
the report of the Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes relating to t he
finances of our Homes, begs leave to report as follows:
We have reviewed the report of the certified p ublic accountants and
are of the opinion that the financial affairs of our Homes are fully and
correctly reported by the Trustees.
The report submitted by your Board of Trustees and the review of
the acco.untants is, of course, submitted in printed form and we do not
believe it necessary to refer in detail to facts and figures. A careful survey
of the report of your Trustees indicates clearly that they have at all times
endeavored to manage the financial affairs of your two institutions not
only to the best interest of those housed therein, but also to the interest
of this Grand Lodge. The Trustees are to be congratulated upon the
effident manner in which they have at all times managed our two institutions.
We have discussed the needs of the Homes for the coming year with
the chairman of the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees recommends
the continuance of the per capita tax of 40 cents for the coming year in
which recommendation we concur. We therefore offer the fo llowing
resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the special per capita tax for the m aintenance of the
Masonic Homes be set at 40 cents.
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
Your committee has examined the report of the Boar d of Control 01'
reimbursement of Boards of Relief and Masonic E mployment Service
and commend that Board for ·its thoroughness and excellent supervision
of the several Boards of Relief, and adds a word of commendation for

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the ceaseless efforts of the Boards of Relief and Masonic Employment
Service.
The report of the Board of Control recommends reimbursements to
Boards of Relief and Lodges as follows:
Los Angeles .........1•••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••..•.••••••••$ 67.00
Sacramento .......................................................................................... 100.00
San Bernardino..................................................................................
8.00
Oakland ··········-···················································································· 180.00
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348.................................. ·-················· 43.00

of defraying the expenses of a Committee on Correspondence, said bills
to be paid in the usual manner on approval of the Committee on Accounts.

638

Total.. ................................................................................ c••••••• $398.00
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $398.00 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge to reimburse all Boards of Relief and Lodges,
as above set out.
Masonic Employment Service
The Board of Control has recommended to this committee that
moneys should be appropriated for the Employment Bureaus as follows:
San Francisco .......................................................c•••••••••••••••••••..•••$ 3,000.00
East Bay.......................................................................................... 2,400.00
Los Angeles ..............................- ......................... :~.~---··················· 7,800.00

~~:go~:~h:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~~~:~~

Sacramento .... ,...............................................................................
Fresno ............................................................................................

1,100.00
500.00

Total.. .......,............................................... :..........................$18,800.00
Your committee concurs in the recommendation of the Board of Control and offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum' of $18,800.00 be, and it is hereby appropriated
from the funds of Grand Lodge to be divided into donations to assist in
maintaining employment bureaus as above listed.
Report of the Committee on Finance on the Committee of Correspondence
The Committee on Correspondence for the last several years has reviewed many of the reports of the proceedings of Grand Lodges throughout
the world. Reviews of these reports are printed in the proceedings of
Grand Lodge and are, therefore, made available to all Masons in the jurisdiction.
·
After all, what Masonry is doing, wherever it may exist, is something
in which we are all interested. Such information is made available through
the good work of this committee and should be continued.
Masters should ·make it their business to read these reports and, also,
inform the brethren of their respective Lodges of this information.
The expenses of this Committee have never exceeded $500.00, and the
Committee on Finance feels that Grand Lodge is getting a lot for the
money.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption: ·
Resolved, That the sum of $500.00, or as much thereof as may be require.d, be appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the purpose

639

Report of Grand Treasurer
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed with care the report of the
M:. w:. William P. Filmer, Grand Treasurer. The report fully sets forth
the financial condition of Grand Lodge, of the Endowment Fund and of the
various Trust Funds, including a list of securities held and of securities
bought and sold during the year, as well as all financial transactions. The
report again indicates the ' great care given and the efficiency displayed by
our Grand Treasurer in handling the financial affairs of Grand Lodge. The
responsibility which the Grand Treasurer has is very great. The praise
and appreciation of this committee is unbounded for the work which this
worthy officer is performing for Grand Lodge.
As has already been reported on the Audit of Accounts, all items of
Receipts and Disbursements have been properly accounted for · and all
records are in perfect shape.
I
Our Grand Treasurer has performed his duties this year under real
difficulties, as in March he was taken down with bronchial pneumonia.
Due to the severity of the attack our Grand Treasurer has been confined
to his home most of the time and in bed much of the time since the attack
in March. It, therefore, has been necessary for him to carry the great responsibilities which rest upon him as Grand Treasurer, while at home,
and yet in no ways have the duties of the office been neglected. In fact it
is to be noted by' the report that in the transactions in Federal and other
bonds, a profit of $18,001.19 has accrued to the Endowment Fund and this
without any decrease in the income received therefrom.
Vv' e are sure this Grand Lodge is desirous of expressing to Brother
Filmer its appreciation of the services which he has performed, and by this
means your Committee on Finance is tendering to Brother Filmer the
thanks of Grand Lodge. We are also sure that you want to hope for our
Most Worshipful Brother a speedy and complete recovery and that we
may have his wise counsel in Grand Lodge for many years to come. We
also express this wish for you.
Report of Grand Secretary
This is the first time in thirty-three years that the report of this officer
of Grand Lodge has been presented by other than John Which er, and the
presenter of this report asks the ·personal privilege from Grand Lodge to
pay a few words of tribute to a friend of thirty-four years, for it has been
that length of time that I had known John, and in all those years my life
has been the better because I knew him. It was his privilege to do that
work in life which pleased him most and that was to serve Masonry. He
lived as he most liked to live, and died the way he often expressed a wish
to die, and that was still in the harness and laboring for Masonry. He was
always considerate, always courteous, always just and his life more nearly
approached the noble than any man that it has been my privilege to know.
His life was truly a benediction to all those who knew him, and he achieved
success in the truest sense: in that this world and Masonry and the lives of
those who knew him were the better that he passed by this way.
The report this year is presented by the -Most Worshipful, Leon 0.
Whitsell, who was appointed by the Grand Master to fill the vacancy.
The report contains full information of all transactions of the office,
including all financial transactions and is complete in detail. Considering
the shortness of time that our present Grand Secretary was in the office

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO R:\'IA

and his short acquaintance with its duties, we consider that our present
Grand Secretary has done a remarkably good job. Leon, we thank you
for what you have done.
As has been previously reported in our report on the Audit of Accounts,
all items of Receipts and Disbursements have been properly accounted for
and all records are in : proper shape.

portrait added and therefore repeats th e request heretofore made that our
Most Worshipful Brother have his portrait painted, the bill to be in an
amount not to exceed $250.00 and presented to the Grand Secretary who is
authorized to pay the same.

640

Traveling Expenses of Grand Master
Your committee has discussed with our incoming Grand Master his
hopes for extensive visitations to the various parts of the jurisdiction. It
was gratifying for your committee to learn that it is the · intent of our
new Grand Master to visit as extensively as his time and as his duties as.
Superior Judge of Los Angeles County will permit. It is also his intent to
use the airplane to get about the State as much as possible. This, of course,.
means some additional expense. However, this committee is very much in
accord With the wish of the Grand Master to travel extensively and also
commend hit1:1 for his willingness to use the airplane in order to conserve
time.
As has often been expressed in previous reports of this committee.
we feel that no money expended by Grand Lodge does more good in maintaining the enthusiasm of the individual Mason, as well as maintaining a.
high plane in the conduct of Masonry throughout the State as the money
expended for the traveling expenses of the Grand Master. We therefore
feel that it would be a mistake to reduce the amount which has been allowed
for the past three years for this purpose.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its.
adoption:
Resolved: That the sum of $4,500.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge for the purpose of defraying the traveling expenses of the·
Grand Master.
Portrait of Grand Master
It has, for many years, been the pleasing custom of this Grand Lodge
to request th e retiring Grand M aster to have his portrait painted so that
it might be included in the gallery of portraits of Past Grand Masters, the
expense thereof to be paid out of Grand Lodge funds.
Your committee is sure that this communication of Grand Lodge will
wish to continue this pleasing custom and have the portrait of our present
retiring Grand Master included in this gallery. Your committee therefore
recommends that our retiring Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Lloyd E.
Wilson, have his portrait painted and present the bill therefor, in an amount
not to exceed $250.00, to th e Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay
the same, and when the portrait is painted, such portrait to be hung in th e
gallery of Past Grand Masters.
Portraits of Preceding Past Grand Masters
For several years now this committee has made an effort by calling
Grand Lodge's attention thereto and making the appropriation therefor,
to have our gallery of portraits completed by securing th e portraits of all
living Past Grand Masters. It is p leasing to note that P a st Grand Masters
Hervey, Miller and Ogden have now been included in the gallery. A ll
three of these portraits are of genuine excellence. We are sur e that Grand
Lodge is taking a much greater interest in this gallery. The improved
appearance of it is most gratifying to this committee. There is, h owever,
one living Past Grand Master whose portrait is not yet in the gallery, that:
of Past Grand M aster Earl Warren. Your committee would like 'to see this

64!

Unpaid Loans
The report of this committee for the year 1940 displayed that there
still remained unpaid on the loans which had been advanced by G rand
Lodge in previous years for various purposes the following :
Drytown Lodge No. 174..................................................$440.00
Gravel Range Lodge N o. 59 ............................................ 400.00
It is particularly pleasing to this committee to note that during the year
this last named Lodge has paid its obligation in full. This is a real achievement, for the L odge is small and located in an o ld m ining comm unity of
small population and of little activity and therefore the possibility of securing an Increase in membership is very limited.
We want to commend the membership of this Lodge for the effort
which we know t hey must have made to rai se the funds to liquidiate this
loan from Grand ·Lodge. We extend th e thanks of Grand L odge for this
payment.
The amount still due from Drytown L odge No. 174 of $440.00, is t he
balance due on money advanced in 1926 for the purpose of remodeling an
old building to be used by it as a Masonic Temple. This L odge is also one
of th e o ld Mother Lode Lodges with a small membership an d situated in a
community with limited possibilities. T h e Lodge each year has appeared
before this Committee and indicated a wish to pay this obligation. The
committee for a number of years has felt that it was putting an undue
burden on a small membership to request the repay ment of this advance ..
However, it has always been the expressed wish of th e L odge that Grand
Lodge not forgive them this obligation. How ever, your Committee has.
concluded that it would be only fair to the brethren in this part of the
jurisdiction who are strenuously endeavoring to carry th e bann er of Masonry
hig h, to forgive them their obligation, and we therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the note given -by D rytown Lodge No. 174, on which
there is still a balance due of $400.00, be returned to the Lodge and the
amount thereof be considered as a donation and r emoved from the assets
of Grand Lodge. ,
Carpinteria Lodge
Your Committee on Finance to which was r eferred the matter of the
Grand Master auth orizing an advance of $2,500 to Carpinteria L odge No.
444 for the purpose of repairing its building damaged by an earthquake
during the year, beg leave to report as follows:
The facts disclose that there was a pressing need for this financial
assistance. The holder of a $12,000 mortgage on the building had agreed to·
accept $5,000 in full settlement, and a tentative commitment for a new loan
was n egotiated in this amount, subject to th e building being repaired.
In di scussing th e situation with th e representative from Carpinteria
Lodge and the Inspector, they express the desire of the Lodg to execute
a proper obligation in favor of the Grand Lodge for the $2,500 advance.
Your committee th er efore recommends the acceptance of a note for this·
amount bearing interest at 4o/o. It is furth er stated by the representative
from the Lodge and the In spector th at th e cost of repairs to the building
may not now use the $2,500 advance in entirety, an d if such is the case the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

unused portion of this sum will be returned to the Grand Lodge to apply
on the obligation. It is also felt that after the building is repaired and
appraised, there is a probability the commitment for the new loan of $5,000
may be increased, in which event this amount would be paid to the Grand
Lodge. As an additionar source of revenue with which to repay this loan,
we learn that it is the intention of the Lodge to apply regularly on this
loan such amounts received in rentals from tenants occuping the ground floor
of the Temple as are not required to service and maintain the building.
It is the opinion of your Committee on Finance that the timely financial
assistance rendered Carpinteria Lodge by the Grand Master has enabled
them to solve their financial problem and we concur in the decision of the
Grand Master in authorizing the advance of $2,500.

and such amendments or additions thereto as he may consider appropriate
be made and that before finally adopting the entire list of rules be again
submitted to the incoming Grand Master for his approval.
In discussing with the Grand Lecturer the amount of the appropriation
which he would recommend for the purpose of covering the expenses of
the Inspectors for the coming year, he advises that it has not been possible
in the short time in which he has held the office and particularly due to the
needs which he has had to master other requirements of his official duties,
he was not in position to render any help in determining the amount to be
appropriated. As the best advice available indicates that if the Inspectors
were to ask reimbursement of the expenses actually incurred that it would
be approximately $3,000.00. As it is also obvious that the fact that the money
is available has not induced the Inspectors to depart from their long established practice of performing their duties without asking the return of even
expenses incurred, your committee has concluded to recommend the same
appropriation as was recommended last year.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $3,000.00 be appropriated from the funds
of Grand Lodge for the purpose of defraying expenses of Inspectors in
performing their official duties, such repayment to be made upon bills duly
presented to the Grand Secretary, which said bills shall first be approved
by the Grand -:Lecturer.

642

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
For many years now it has been necessary for this committee to report
the inability of one or more Lodges to pay its per capita aliowance to
Grand Lodge. It is therefore especially pleasing to learn that this year
the Grand Lodge dues of every Lodge in the jurisdiction has been . paid.
We are sure this can be accepted as an evidence of the increasing interest
being displayed by the Lodges and their membership.
We want to particularly congratulate all the Lodges that such a condition prevails.
Reimbursement of Expenses of Inspectors
At the annual communication of this Grand Lodge two years ago
there appeared before this committee a committee selected by the Inspectors
for the purpose of conveying to this committee a wish that the manner of
returning the expenses of Inspectors in performance of their very official
duties, should be changed and that instead of receiving the expenses from
the individual Lodges of their district that the same be paid by Grand Lodge,
This committee was in accord with the suggested change and requested
that a study be made of the requirements as well as the necessary change
of laws and the same be presented at .next communication of Grand Lodge.
This was done and at our last annual communication the Grand Lecturer
recommended the appropriation of $3,000.00 for the purpose of covering
these expenses. The Grand Lecturer's recommendation was accepted and
an appropriation made of the amount recommended.
It is particularly pleasing to note that while the money was available
to return to the Inspectors, the expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties only $224.23 of the $3,000.00 has been paid out, or in other
words, the great body of Inspectors of this State are performing their
duties fully and efficiently and that most of this work entails expenses
that could in all propriety be requested returned, yet this most important
work is being done for the pure joy of the services rendered without the
willingness to accept any return for any money out. This is the spirit
which 111akes Masonry what it is and which will always keep the banner of
Masonry high. It is obvious that this fine group of officers of Grand Lodge ·
are enjoying one of the greatest satisfactions in life, and that is, the rendering
of unselfish service. Masonry is indeed fortunate to have such a body of men.
As was expressed in the previous reports of this committee, it is of the
opinion that the Grand Lecturer should promulgate certain rules governing
the reimbursements of these expenses, such rules to first have the approval
of the Grand Master. This procedure was followed by our deceased Grand
Lecturer, Worshipful Brother Walter Leonard. It is suggested that the
rules adopted for last year be studied by our incoming Grand · Lecturer

643

Pay of Members
Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report indicating
that the amount required to pay the traveling expenses of officers and
members attending this session of Grand Lodge amounts to the sum of
$17,429.06, and we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend
that it be adopted:
Resolved, That the sum of $17,429.06 be appropriated to pay the traveling expenses of officers and members attending this session.
Salaries
Your committee has given its usual careful consideration to the salaries
of your Grand Lodge officers. Every angle of this problem has been given
consideration including the resolution introduced pertaining to the subject.
It is the opinion of your committee that the salaries for the coming year
should be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary ........................ :.................................................$ 6,000.00
Grand Lecturer ............................................................................
600.00
Assistant Grand Secretary.......................................................... 3,600.00
Grand Tiler ....................................................................................
200.00
Grand Organist ............................................................................
100.00
Total.. .....................................................................................$10,500.00
For a number of years it has been the arrangement between this committee and the Trustees of the Masonic Homes that the salaries of the
Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary be paid from Grand Lodge
funds, and that the Homes reimburse Grand Lodge in the amount of
$1,800.00 per annum for the work done by these two Grand officers for
the Homes. Your committee therefore recommends that the salaries
of the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary be for their services
to the Masonic Homes as well as for their services to this Grand body,
and that for such services the Masonic Homes reimburse this Grand

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge in the sum of $1,800.00 per annum. It is also recommended that
the traveling expenses incurred by the Grand Lecturer and the four
Assistant Grand Lecturers in performing their duties in the State of
California, as well as the expenses incurred by Grand Lodge officers or
members of Grand Lodge who may be traveling by authority of the
Grand Master, be paid as heretofore from Grand Lodge funds.

Overpaid Dues
This committee has had under consideration the application of the
following Lodges for the return of dues paid in error as follows:
Foothill Lodge No. 564.... .......................................~., ...... :.................. $10.lO
The Gardens Lodge No. 621... ..........................................~ .......... .. .... 4.95

644

Traveling Expenses of Grand Secretary to the . Convention of Grand
Secretarie.s in Washington, D. C.
The M. '. W .'. William Rhodes Hervey, Chairman of the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes, has called the attention of your Finance
Committee to the recommendation which his committee is making, that
the incoming Grand Secretary attend the Convention of Grand Masters
and Grand Secretaries held in Washington, D. C., annually in February,
and that some appropriation should be made to cover the expenses of our
incoming Grand Secretary in attending this Convention.
Your committee is in accord with the recommendation of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and also that any expense incurred
by the Grand Secretary in attending this convention should be paid out
of Grand Lodge funds. We therefore recommend that the same be
refunded to the Grand Secretary out of Grand Lodge funds.
Grand Master's Report on Help to Lodges in Defense Areas
That part of the report of the Grand Master dealing with the needs
of Masons and Lodges in Defense Areas has had the careful consideration
of your Committee on Finance. This committee is thoroughly in accord
with all that the Grand Master has had to say on this subject, and commends him for the clarity of expression in setting this problem before
Grand Lodge and the sound judgment of his conclusions as to how best
this help should be rendered.
Your Finance Committee has also had under consideration the financial
assistance which certain Lodges in Defense Areas will need in caring for
the extra burden placed upon these Lodges. We have also discussed
with the chairman of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
the determination of that committee as to how this help shall be rendered.
Your Committee on Finance is thoroughly in accord with what your
Committee on ·Policy and General Purposes has had to say on this particular problem. It is obvious that some finances will be required by these
Lodges. However, it is totally impossible to secure any measure of the
amount of funds which may be required for this purpose. Your Committee
on Finance is not therefore appropriating any particular amount.
It is hoped that sufficient savings. will be made in the budget as set
up for this coming year to pay this uncalculable expense without levying
additional per capita therefor.
Resolution of Laurel Lodge No. 245
The resolution from Laurel Lodg·e No. 245 presented to Grand Lodge
and having to do .w ith the remission of dues of members in the draft.
and which was referred jointly to the Committee on Policy and General
Pui;poses and the Finance Committee has had the consideration of the
.latter com~ittee.
It would seem to this latter committee that this is a matter largely
of policy; that the question of financ.e is small at the best, and therefore
a recommendation of the Finance Committee need not be required, and
this Is the recommendation of this committee.

645

In each case it was a question of paying Grand Lodge dues on brethren
who had ceased to be members of the Lodge. This committee commends
to the Secretaries of these two Lodges, the reading of the report of this
committee on this same subject made in 1939 and found on page 586 of the
Proceedings for that year. The committee this year takes the same stand
as the committee for the year 1939 took in which it particularly stated:
"While this committee is reluctant to take the stand that such
refunds hereafter will not be aUowed, yet there is a very strong
disposition, in order to prevent the continued occurrence of these
errors and the consequent amount of time and trouble these errors
cause, to take such a stand."
However, due to the fact that Grand Lodge has received an amount
in excess of the amount these Lodges should have properly paid, it offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $15.05 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge and paid as follows :
The Gardens Lodge No. 621... ......................................... ,.................$ 4.95
Foothill Lodge No. 564..............: .... :.................... '. ............................. 10.10
for the purpose of refunding to these Lodges the amount overpaid in
Grand Lodge dues.
In ·the sale of securities the transfer agents are exacting endorsements
that are leg·ally authorized, and as our laws are silent with respect to the
powers necessary for the transfer of securities and in order that the required
authority be provided, your committee offers the following resolution:
Resol1;ed, That the Grand Master or Grand.. Secretary of the M. W .
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California,
together with the Grand Treasurer of the M. W. Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of California, be and they are hereby
authorized to sell, assign and transfer any and all certificates of stock,
registered bonds and/or other securities owned or held by the M. W.
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, and
to indorse the same or execute such assignments and/or powers of attorney
as may be necessary, proper or convenient to accomplish any such sale,
assignment or transfer.
Grand Lodge Per Capita
The Constitution provides for the levying of a per capita of SO cents
to provide for the expenses of Grand Lodge and its various activities. In
addition to the sum provided for by this per capita levy, there is additional
revenue accruing to Grand Lodge from degrees conferred and income
on investments and from some other sources of approximately $24,000.00.
There is also some other revenue derived from the sale of supplies and
from surety bonds covering Lodge officers. This revenue, however, cannot
be taken into consideration in the budget because it is offset by corresponding items of disbursement, which are also eliminated from the budget. The
income derived from these sources is not sufficient to pay the operating
expenses of Grand Lodge during this coming year and the various appropriations being recommended in this report. It also should be borne in
mind that there are always some expenses which cannot be estimated,

646

rROCEEDINGS OF THE

as for instance, the expense this year of allowing those Lodges in Defense
Areas some help in caring for the additional burdens which are put upon
these Lodges due to the need of caring for the additional membership
caused by the Defense Program. This is an item which is totally impossible
to make any estimate as to the amount which may be required.
This committee has always taken the position that while there was
no particular need of increasing the surplus which Grand Lodge had at
the time, and yet that sufficient funds should be raised every year to care
for all reasonable expenses.
It is particularly pleasing to note that the budget which was set up
a year ago together with the per capita levy which was made to care for
this budget, has resulted in a surplus for the year of approximately
$14,000.00. This is particularly pleasing to this committee and the more
so when it is taken into consideration that after the budget had been
established for the year and the per capita voted to care for the budget
and then subsequently when Grand Lodge took the recommendation of
the committee to sell 25,000 shares of Masonic Temple Stock for $100,000.00,
the committee then recommended a decrease in the per capita assessment
previously determined upon of 10 cents. It is also particularly pleasing to
this committee that the actual additional income received from the sale of
the Temple stock was in excess of the statement made to Grand Lodge
at the time.
While the budget, which is being presented to Grand Lodge this year,
balances with the income anticipated and that no amount is provided to
care for allowances made to Lodges in Defense Areas under 'additional
expenses, and yet, it is the hope of the committee that sufficient savings
may be made this year to care for this expense, and therefore it is the
final recommendation of this committee that the per capita levy be the
same as last year, that is, a total levy of $1.55. The levy is made up as
follows: ·
Grand Lodge Constitutional requirement..............:.................---·- .SO
Masonic Homes Constitutional requirement................................ .50
Masonic Homes Maintenance special levy...................................... .40
Grand Lodge activities........................:..:............................................ .15
Total..................................................;............................. ~.- ..........$1.55
The report ~f the Trustees of the Homes asked for, in addition to the
constitutional requirement, a per capita levy of ~O cents. This committee
concurs in the request and that part of its report dealing with the Trustees·
of the Homes presents a resolution providing for this levy of 40 cents,
which resolution has already been approved by you and therefore no
additional resolution to provide for that levy at this time is necessary.
It is, however, necessary to pres_e nt a resolution to provide for the
levy of 15 cents for Grand Lodge Activities. This committee therefore
offers the following resolution· and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That · a per capita levy of 15 cents be levied for the payment
of Grand Lodge expenses and for its various Masonic activities.
Budget
Consideration of the report of the Grand Secretary with respect to
receipts and . expenditures reveals that the budget adopted last year has
been generally adhered to. In submitting the current year's budget your
committee. directs attention to the limited surplus indicated and admonishes
such agencies of Grand Lodge that have in their province the authorizing
of expenditures to avoid excess over items here set forth.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

647

Income
Dues from Lodges, etc...................-.......................- ........$ 91,500.00
I nterest and dividends........................................................ 15,300.00 $106,800.00
Salaries .................................................................................. 11 ,500.00
Printing ............................................................,...................
5,500.00
Traveling expense, Grand Lecturer and assistants ....
1,000.00
Office rent ............................................................................
4,500.00
P ostage ................................................................................. .
500.00
Audit ......................................................................................
150.00
Telephone and telegraph ..........:.......................................
300.00
· Grand Master's relief........................................................ ..
2,500.00
Board of Control........................ ,...................................:.....
300.00
Public Schools Week.................................... :.....................
600.00
Fifty-year buttons ..............................................................
400.00
Portraits, Grand Masters..................................................
500.00
Outside relief.................................................... _..................
4,500.00
200.00
Social Security taxes ......................................,...................
Expense, Grand Treasurer............................................... .
600.00
Traveling expense, Inspectors..........................................
3,000.00
Pay of members.............................................. - ................... 17,450.00
Reimbursements, Board of Relief..................................
400.00
Employment Bureaus.......................................~................ 18,800.00
Traveling expenses, Grand Master...._. .............'..............
4,500.00
11asonic Clubhouses............................................................ 15,000.00
Endowment Board......................................................,.......
6,000.00
Grand Lodge Week activities.....................~.......:............
2,500.00
500.00
Correspondence Committee.............................-................ ..
History Co!Jlmittee............................................................
250.00
500.00
Education Committee........:...............................................
Annual Communication......................................................
1,000.00
luspectors' aprons and stationery ..................................
750.00
Traveling expenses, Grand Lodge officers..................
450.00
2,000.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................................
Estimated surplus................................

106,150.00

$

650.00

ARTHUR s. CRITES,
FRANK RUPPEL,
w ALTER L. BERGER,
RAY w. BLOSSER,
ROLLIE
MILLER,
ANGUS HoLDEN,
Committee.

c.

w.

The report was adopted.

RESOLUTION BY LEO BRUCK OF JEWEL LODGE
No. 374
WHEREAS, The Grand Lodge of California is fortunate' in having for
its Grand Organist, a man who takes great pride in his work, and spends
a great deal of time preparing splendid musical programs, which this
Grand Lodge has enjoyed during its communication ;
Therefore, B e It Resolved, That the sum of fifty dollars be, and the

648

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

same is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be
paid to Charles E. Anderson, Grand Organist, in recognition of his services.
LEO BRUCK,

P. M.,Jewel Lodge No. 374.

Adopted and appropriation approved by Finance Committee
and adopted.
Past Grand Master Crites, following the report of the Finance
Committee, spoke of the valiant service that our Grand Treasurer, Brother William P. Filmer, has rendered to Grand Lodge,
and Grand Lodge ordered that the Grand Secretary send a wire ·
of felicitations and best wishes for the speedy and complete recovery of Past Grand Master Filmer.
At 12 :OS o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 this
afternoon.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

649

1fn ~ranb JLobge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday, October 16, 1941.
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE MASONRY
To the M.". w.·. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as
follows:
This committee was first appointed in 1928 by Grand Master Hutaff
upon the recommendation of Grand Master Fischer and has already made
twelve annual reports. It seems proper, therefore, to summarize the work
of the committee and check our sights.
A thorough review of the prev.ious reports of the committee discloses
no statement of the history of previous Grand Lodge action upon the
subject. The craft in general, and Masters and Secretaries in particular,
are entitled to this for their guidance when occasion requires. With this
in mind, a complete check of Grand Lodge reports from 1850 to date
has been made by the committee. A summary of that research is here
presented.
Policy Concerning Clandestine Masonry
. Prior to the organization of the present Constitutional Committee on
Clandestine Masonry, the subject arose in Grand Lodge twenty-eight times
at twenty different sessions. It prompted the Grand Master to appoint a
committee in 1853, and from that committee's action in 1854 is traced the
thread of a consistent policy founded upon a doctrine of nonintercourse
with those who are not regular Masons ·or not regular Lodges. The principles thus established may be briefly summarized as follows:
That every man, be he white, black, yellow or red, and whatever his
belief in God, is eligible to be a Mason, provided he is qualified and found
worthy. That no organization of clandestine or irregular origin can ever,
as such, become Masonic. That the only way to be healed Masonically
is for the individuals comprising that organization to repudiate it, and
to petition for the degrees of Masonry in the regular way. That it is
inadvisable to legislate against clandestine Masonry.
From this summary it is apparent that a regular Mason has no more
business to visit a clandestine Lodge than he has to admit a clandestine
Mason to his Lodge or to vouch for him. Any such act is a Masonic
offense. This should be known and remembered by all members of the
craft. The principle was established at the Grand Lodge session of 186J
when the charter of one of our own Lodges was "perpetually arrested"
and that Lodge "declared extinct" for admitting to its meeting members
of clandestine Lodges. It is hoped that this brief review will be noted
by Masters, Wardens and Secretaries, and that they will in turn educate
the craft upon the subject.
Previous Reports of This Committee
Your committee has in previous years reported upon the existence,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE O .F CALIFORNIA

personnel and numbers of eleven Clandestine Grand Lodges with the
names of their constituent Lodges. A summary of the status of this
activity or non-activity is desirable at this time. The committee is unanimous in the view that these should not be given any further existence or
recognition even by naming them in the reports of Grand Lodge. It
recognizes that that which is unnamed soon languishes uncoffined and
unknelle9.
There are two colored Grand Lodges. The first one was last reported
upon in 1934 as having nine Lodges but none of them active. There is no
material change up to the present except that it seems to be chartering
Filipino Lodges to perpetuate its struggling existence. The second, while
· quite thoroughly organized after the pattern of our own Grand Lodge,
has according to the most recent report, had a considerable decrease in the
number of its constituent Lodges. It seems to be doing a worthy service
for its race.
The four Co-Masonic Groups previously reported as existent in
California have split off from the parent organization of "International
Order of Co-Masonry" with headquarters in London, England.. This
movement in California is now a sort of American federation of human
rights whose existence is waning and is not of any present concern to us.
Of the numerous Grand Lodges working in Spanish, the first one
reported upon suspended all of its charters in 1934 and its Lodges have
since dissolved. The second one was last reported upon in 1938 as having
almost ceased activity but maintaining some social communication. The
third, while mentioned in the 1930 report has not been heard from since.
The fourth had at most but five subordinate Lodges and these have since
been lost to our investigation.
Among "the four Filipino Grand Lodges, the first one was reported
upon as allegedly Masonic but with no ceremonies resembling Masonry.
The word Masonic does not appear in its name. We, therefore, are not
concerned with it. The second was reported in 1932 as existent but has
not been heard from since. The third has been previously reported as
having labor, economic, political and social ideals and as being intensely
patriotic. The eight points of its creed as printed in its convention magazine in February, 1941, are none of them strictly Masonic. It does not
have Masonry in its name and should therefore not concern us. The
fourth, while existent since 1916, had a split in its organization in 1940,
and while three of those Lodges splitting off formed a new Grand Lodge
in 1941, at present neither of these Grand Lodges seems to e_..xist any more
than in name.
Thus is the clandestine Masonry previously reported upon by this
committee summarized with what your committee deems proper emphasis.
It is to be here stressed that at no time during the past thirteen years
has any of this Clandestine activity concerned itself with the white race
in which this Grand Lodge is rooted. It is to be further noted that, so
far as this committee has been able to ascertain, the movement has not
deprived any worthy person of regular Masonic membership nor has
lolicitation been made of any such material, with one exception. In that
one exception, your committee was able to point out to the applicant the
OpJ?ortunity of being recommended to Masonry by a regular brother who
stood ready to do so, or joining in a social welfare movement among his
race, if tha't was the applicant's desire. The committee has not since
been informed of the decision.

of this committee and such recommendations as are proper. A majority
of your committee has met in conference upon this question and is
unanimous in presenting the following :
As noted from the foregoing, this so-called Masonry has been confined
to three races, viz.: the Negroes, the Filipinos and the Mexican·s . In the
first two the movement may be properly classed as that of social welfare
or patriotic, with such Masonry a s they claim· used as a cement to bind
them together. With such movements, confined to their own classes,
regular Masonry has no quarrel, but may well God-speed them on their
way. Only in the Spanish language groups has there been the tendency
to racketeering. As summarized above, this group is the nearest to being
extinct-as justice itself would dictate. At least the termite has not
spread to our Masonic timber.
The committee believes that its ac~ivity in the past has served to curb
the spread of clandestine Masonry into the field of regular Masonry and
to deprive it of any semblance of recognition in the eyes of the law.
Today there · is on the statute books a law placed there in 1933, providing
for prosecution even for the wearing of any Masonic pin or emblem to
which the wearer is not entitled. Prosecution may also be made of anyone
selling spurious degrees for money. The committee is in favor of such
prosecution handled through the regular law enforcement agencies and in
such way that regular Masonry does not appear as the prosecutor, much
less a persecutor.
As to the scope of the future activity of the committee it is thought
that it should continue to gather the data concerning all movements of
clandestine character and furnish the information to the Grand Secretary's
office so that it is available upon inquiry by those concerned in the areas
affected, or furnish it to Lodge officers direct upon request. This relieves
the· Grand Master of all burden in this regard. In t)le gathering of such
information the officers and members of our constituent Lodges can be
of the greatest service and it is hoped that they will heed this and co-operate
with the committee in passing along the information they obtain.
The second line of activity would be, in the event of a prosecution,
to function as an investigator and furnish information and counsel to those
charged with the prosecution as to the policy and attitude of regular
Masonry. This activity should be under the supervision of the Grand
Master whenever the committee's action affects the public.
The third and last line of activity should be to counsel with local
Lodge officers as to the means and methods to be employed to suppress
any spread of spurious Masonry to our own ranks, to track down
racketeers and to prevent wherever possible any impositions upon good
men who may have a sincere desire to become Masons.
With such purposes in mind and specifically defined we trust the
committee may be of greater service to the craft. Our one request is that
this report be read in each Lodge for the purpose of giving information
and making known to the membership how they can be of service in
promoting this work of the committee.
Respectfu1ly submitted,

650

Scope and Purpose
From these premises must be defined the proper scope and purpose

651

WARREN E. LIBBY,
0RLA A. PRATI',
FRED SPRING,
}OHN ALPERS,
FRED P. ROULLART,

VIRGILE. PACE,
]AMES BEARD,

Report was adopted as read.

Committee.

• PROCEEDINGS OF THE

652

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE U. C. BERKELEY CLUBHOUSE
To the M:. W.". Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Club of the University of California presents this, its
annual report of the Club's activities during the past year. Nothing of
startling interest has occurred since the last report. The membership of
the Club remains about the same from year to yeat. For the information
of the Grand Lodge I give the following tabulation of reports of membership and dues of the Club during the last five years:
1936 Women's Club
Spring
224
Fall .................. 305
Total ----------

529-dues $1,408.0a

1937
Spring ------------ 229
Fall .................. 303
Total ---------Spring -----------Fall ..................
Total ---------Spring -----------Fall ..................
Total

532-dues $1,419.00
1938
256
337
593-dues $1,482.00
1939
230
300
530-dues $1,417.00

1940
Spring
221
Fall ................... 293
Total ..........

514-dues $1,371.00

1936 Men's Club
Spring
250
Fall .................. 341
Total
Spring
Fall ..................
Total
Spring
Fall ..................
Total

591-dues $1,410.00
1937
235
327
562-dues $1,399.00
1938
259
327
586-dues $1,562.00

1939
Spring
250
Fall .................. 375
Total
Spring
Fall ................. .
Total ..'........

625-dues $1,664.00
1940
249
300
549-dues $1,703.00

I have obtained from the President of the Masonic Clubhouse Council,
the President of the Boys' Masonic Club, and the President of the Girls'
Masonic Club letters hereinafter set out in full. I know of no better way
to present to the Grand Lodge the reaction and activities of our girls
and boys than to present to you in their own language their appraisal of
the benefits and advantages they enjoy by reason of their membership in
the Clubs.
The first of these letters is from Harold Neeland, President of the
Clubhouse Council. He says:
"The Masonic Clubhouse was built with the objec~ive of
providing a place for the students of the University of California
having Masonic affiliation to meet one another, to make acquaintances, and to form worthwhile and lasting friendships.
"Just as the expectations of those who originally saw the need
and · the opportunity for such a common meeting place were

653

fulfilled, and exceeded, due to the erection of this beautiful structure, so much and far more has been the fulfillment of the original
objective.
"
"This semester alone, the clubhouse facilities are being enjoyed by approximately five hundred members. Through such
events as luncheons, evening fireside programs, social dancing,
and many others, the clubhouse serves a multi-purpose function.
Primarily it is a common meeting place, not only for the organized
clubs within, but mainly for the individual members who look upon
the clubhouse as a friendly campus home. As a center of activity,
interest, and college spirit the clubhouse provides an essential
part of student education. Alone, as a source of loyal friendships
and kindly interest to the new student and the old, the clubhouse
serves a value more than justifying its maintenance."
Jerome L. Kush nick expresses his reaction in the following language:
"As this semester at the University reaches its prime, and as
social event after event unfolds itself at the Masonic Club to the
delight of the members, they have asked me in behalf of the
Men's Masonic Club to express their gratitude to you and to all
the Masons of California for assisting in making their days in
college happy ones.
"It is difficult to relate to you the emotions of joy and
satisfaction that are written on the faces of freshmen jls they
express their approval of the clubhouse after their first visitation.
And when they become more active, partaking of our dances,
luncheons, firesides, picnics, bridge parties, banquets, and other
social functions, their approval is not only by their smiling faces
but by the very words they speak.
"To me the Club has given many opportunities. I find it a
place where I might come to relax and forget for a while my, at
times, monotonous college routine. It is a place where I might
meet young men and women; men and women to whom I might
speak and share mutual interests; men and women who I may
look forward to as having as lifelong friends; and lastly, but above
all, men and women who are worth knowing. Without any hesitation I say that the Masonic Club is the only place on the
University campus that has all this to offer.
"To relate my thoughts and opinions is to relate the thoughts
of all the members of the Masonic Club, for they coincide precisely.
So once more I express our thanks in appreciation of your kindness and generosity and trust that the opportunities you are giving
us may continue, that those to follow us may also sip from the
cup of happiness."
Finally, Doris K. Wilton, President of the Women's Masonic Club,
gives us her ideas as to what our Clubhouse life is and amounts to in
the University of California:
"I deem it an honor and a privilege to express for the members, as well as myself, the deep felt gratitude to the Board of
Trustees for the Masonic Clubhouse they have provided for us.
"In creating this building for us, some of the advantages must
have been realized. I say 'some' as only the members themselves
can experience its full value. The Clubhouse is more than a beautiful building just off campus for the association of students with
Masonic affiliation. It is more than a wonderful social organization
where people can meet and enjoy various types of entertainment.

654

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is a place' where enduring friendships are formed. I believe
this fact is most important, for life wouldn't be half so rich and
full without ·friends to help share the joys therein.
"With friendship as the basis of club life, the various social
activities may progress successfully. Luncheons, dances, barbeques,
and firesi.d es, ar e but a few of the functions that help weld the
Club into a more compact unit.
"In carrying out this program we hope that we are fulfilling
the purpose for which this Clubhouse was founded."

Masonry is at work, ,my brethren, in many ways and in many places,
among them, the Clubhouse at Berkeley and Los Angeles. I again
exhort you to visit your Clubhouses, bring them to the attention of the
brethren, and urge their young people to avail themselves of the many
advantages offered.
Certain things of great importance in the operation of o ur Clubhouse have happened since last we met. Mrs. Lida Kempton, whoserved as res ident hostess since it opened in 1929, feeling she had reached
the time when she should retire, offered her resignation as of June 30th.
She had not only served well and faithfully, but with a great deal of
satisfaction to our Board and to our young people, and it was with
genuine regret that the resignation was accepted.
Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon, who was selected to fill .this vacancy, has the·
fu ll co-operation and best w ishes of all concerned, and we face the future
with confidence.
We wish to express to our Most Worshipful Grand Master our
appreciation for his very helpful assistance looking toward a g reater
service to the hundreds of young men and women who come under our
influence. Upon the occasion of his reception at the Clubhouse, heinspired all present with a masterful address.
We have always had two brethren from the University faculty as
members of our Board, they being Brother Charles H . Dodds, Past
Master of Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677, and Brother C. H . Robison, a
member of the same Lodge. During the year, because of ill health, both
of these brethren resigned a fter a number of years of fine service, and
we here record our appreciation. Our Most Worshipful Grand Master filled
these vacancies by appointing Brother D. K . Bjork, Professor of History,
and Brother D. G. Madise, Business Manager of the University. Both of
these brethren have long been interested in Clubhouse activities and
will be of great assistance in carrying on the work.
The financial condition · is reflected by Brother Reynold E . Blight's
report, which is attached and made a part hereof.
With respect to the budget for the ensuing year, our estimate is as.
follows:
Hostess ........... ~ ............................................ ., ..................................$1,1)00.00
Hostess Relie'f ...................................... - .......................................... · .180.00
Building Superintendent ........................................ .'....................... 720.00
Heat, light, power and water ........................................ .'............. 600.00
Additional janitorial assistance ...................... _........................,... 125.00
Gardening ........................................................................................ 265.00
Stationery and printing..... ,.......................... .'................................. 200.00
Telephone ........................................................................................ 180.00
General building maintenance.........:..........................................., 600.00
Office expense...................................................................................
75.00
Subscriptions ........,.....................................................;.............- ....
75.00
Taxes and assessments .................................................................. 1,315.00
Insurance .......................................................................................... 125.00·
Auditing ............................................................................................
50.00
Bookkeeping .................................................................................... 300.00·
Miscellaneous .............................................................".................... 175.00·
Social Security....................................................~ .....'........................
30.00
Janitor supplies..............:.........................................................-.;......
50.00
Postage ............................................................................................ 175.00

One of the serious problems that confronts the Trustees · the membership of the Club and our very capable and loyal Hostess, i~ to determine
the most satisfactory and legitimate means of approach to the young men
and women of the University who are Masonically affiliated. Many such
young men and women who enter the University know nothing of the
existence of the Masonic Club. Our thought is that the best method of
approach wou ld be to educate the parents of these young people by
putting in their hands information regarding the Club, that they might
in turn communicate to their sons and daughters.
·
The best method to accomplish this purpose, it seems to us, would
be to have photographs taken of the building, externally and internally,
and place these photographs, together with suitable information as fo
the advantages offered by the Club, in the hands of the Secretaries of
the subordiftate Lodges for delivery ~o the membership of the re:;pective
Lodges. In order to make this rea lly effective it should be supplemented
by having the attention of the several Lodges called to the subject matter .
through a circular letter by the Grand Master to all the Lodges in the St~te.
The budget and report of a certified public accountant has been placed
in the hands of the Finance Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,
MILTON T. FARMER,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
WJLLIAM P. FILMER,
WILLIAM B. HERMS,
ALDO F. POSTEL,
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN,

w

Directors.

The requested appropriation having already been voted by
Grand Lodge, the report was adopted as read.

REPORT OF U . C. LOS ANGELES CLUBHOUSE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California :
As th e representative of the Board of Directors of the Clubhouse
at trye University of California at Los Angeles, I bring to you our annual
report.
In these troublous ti"mes as we look about us at the feverishness and
even chaos extant in the world . today, we take pride iri the serenity and
helpfulness of our great Fraternity in this · country of · ours, especially in
th is great State.

655

$6,740.0().

656

.

GRAND L OD GE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

657

Building depreciation reserve ...................................................... 1,000.00
TotaL..............:....................................................:.............:$7,740.00
We r ecommend that such provision be made for support and main·
tenance during the year 1941- 1942 as will be adequate for the purpose.
Fraternally submitted by order of the Board of Directors.
BEN G. WRIGHT,
ELMER BECKMAN,
w ALTER L. BERGER,
THOMAS B. BUCHANAN,
WILL H . FISCHER,
G. ULSWORTH MEYER,
J oHN STEWART Ross,
CLYDE c. SHOEMAKER,
DANA R. WELLER,
OscAR LAWLER,
JoHN A. KLARQUIST,
WILLIAM B. OGDEN,
D. G. MACLISE,
D. K. BJORK,
MARCO R . N EWMARK,
Directors.

Th~ requested appropriation having already been voted by
Grand Lodge, the report was adopted.

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the M.'. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1941:
Receipts
$173,035.55
Oct. l , 1940, balanc~ on hand (cash and securities)
From rentals ........................................................................$ 44,830.75
From interest, savings banks..........................................
74.63
From interest and dividends............................................ 6,445.89
60,326.50
From premiums, sale of securities................................
8,975.23

$233,362.05
Disburseni.ents
Taxes, real estate .......................:...,..................................$ 8,059.56
116.68
Taxes, old age benefit............................ ~.!-<- ...................
449.94
Taxes, unemployment ..................................................... .
Expense ................................................................................ · 5,277.83
1,692.98
Improvements ....................................................................
940.74
Insurance ..............................................................................
Dividends .............................................................................. 11,124.42
Salaries .................................................................................. 11,599.39
Purchase of own stock.:...........:.. ~ ............................;.:--··-- 100,000.00

139,261.54

$ 94,100.51
Sept. 30~ _ 1 941, balance on hand (cash and securities)
MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA, INC.,
Adopted.
FRANK C. RuPPEL, Secretary.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the M.'. W:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Charters, to which was referred the petition for
Charter of Trona Lodge, U . D.; submits herewith for your consideration
the following report:
Trona- Lodge, Trona, San Bernardino County, was granted a· formal
dispensation on September 10, 1940, by Grand Master William B. Ogden.
At the last Annual Communication this committee recommended your
approval of the request for a continuance of the dispensation and the
recommendation was adopted by· Grand Lodge.
Your committee has heretofore examined in detail the records and
exhibits accompanying the petition, as a result of ~hich we are prompted.
to recommend the same, in their entirety, as a pattern worthy .of imitation.
We also feel that we would be remiss in our duty if we did not offer a
word of praise to the .Master and ~'ardens of Trona L odge and to Brother
Sam Levin, Secretary, whose combined efforts are responsible for the
painstaking preparation of this excellent and illuminating report on the
history of Trona Lodge during the thirteen-month period under dispensation. Despite the fact that virtue is its own reward, any personal commendation herein contained would be incomplete without a reference to
Brother William L. Davis, Inspector of the 60th District. Your committee
is informed that Brother Davis has taken an active and friendly interest
in the affairs of Trona Lodge from the date of the second organization
meeting a nd has, by his kindly, patient and sympathetic understanding of
the many problems ~ttendant upon the birth of a new Lodge, completely
endeared himself to the membership and fully merits the applause of his
brethren.
Ordinarily, your committee would not presume upon the time of this
Grand Lodge to offer statistieal information; however, in the present
instance it is believed that a brief allusion to facts and figures may be
interesting as well as significant, in tha t they may reflect something of the
character and type of men who now seek your favorable consideration.
The record discloses: 13 stated meetings and 28 special meetings; a
Charter membership of 23 and a present membership of 35, which includes
only one affiliation. Of the 23 Charter. members, it is noted that all paid
$12.00 dues in advance and that 13 made voluntary contributions to the
Organization Committee in amounts varying from ten to fifty dollars.
That the example thus offered ho.re fruit is evidenced by the further fact
that of the eleven men raised seven also made additional contributfons.
The total voluntary contributions of $1 ,225.00 also included $155.00 donated
by five non-mt!mbers of Trona Lodge. The problem of securing suitable
quarters was very quickly simplified by the praiseworthy action of the
officials ·o f the American Potash & Chemical Company who, 'through
generous financial and amortization arrangements, made possible the
Masonic Temple, which is now the home of Trona Lodge, entirely freed
of all indebtedness· and confronted, for the time being, at least, with only
one financial obligation'-the payment of an annual rental of $60.00.
Much might be written concerning Trona as a community and what
we, as Masons, may have a rlght to expect from the members of Tron a
Lodge. However, this re;,.ie:W of the past thirteen months gives every
assurance ·.of a--;p11amising future quite in keeping with the best traditions

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

658

C..KAN l) LOUGE OF CALIEORl\IA

and high standards of this Grand Lodge and further comment is unnecessary.
Your committee, therefore, recomm~nds that a Charter lie issued to
Trona Lodge No. 684, Trona, San Bernardino County.
LEET. MULLEN,
Hi;:NRY E.JSSLER,
LEWIS D. COLLINGS,
WALTER F. BURBANK,
LAURANCE 0. CULP,

Committee.

Report adopted.

This report having previousiy been submitted to the Finance
Comtl1ittee and the appropriation approved by th~rn, it was
adopted.
·

REPORT OF SPECIAL RITUAL COMMITTEE
To the M:. W:. Grand L;dge of Californid:
Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Grand
Lecturer's Report appertaining to the Ritual has had the same under
consideration and begs · leave to report as follo'ws :

COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS

. Part I.
~n examination has been made of th~ proof of the proi;lose.d . new

To the M.". W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 92nd Annual Communication of Grand Lodge:
Those entitled to compensation are the duly accredited representatives
of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters, Officers of Grand. Lodge
and the chairmen. and members of committees enumerated in Section 70'
of the Ross Digest, who are actually in attendance at Grand Lodge. ·
Compensation of members is fixed in Section 68 of the Ross Digest
as being twice the single first-class one-way railway fare, plus Pull.m an
sleeper where necessary. As has been the custom for many years, no
compensatio.n is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate
vicin.i ty, nor where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
We have coJUp.uted the transportation rates from all points in California
and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the pay roll with the
registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials.
The amount required to meet transportation costs as providep by the
Constitution. for the 1941 Convocation is as follows:
Grand Lodge 0.ftill~S'···•········-···-·······•······: ...•...;.....,................. $ 513.80
342.48
Past Grand Mai>teri;.... •·-·············.·'···; .... :........... .,:....... , ............ ..
699.82
Committees · ·-·····-·""~·· ...........................,. ........ ,......................... .
2,413.46
Ins P.e<:: tors -:·~?''"'"··-.:.· ....
~~···· ~-, ~- ~· -~~~~~··--·~··
Representatives ...., ................................................... ., .. ,.............. . 13,108.98
Amount estimated to cover refund of Federal taxes
on traQsportation ...,.... ;..................... 1•.•• •_ ••• : ....................... .. ..
500.00
"'!".• , .....

.......

....

.........

Momtor . and we find that the four changes . therein are pure ·fae,t ual,
grammatical and con structural corrections . and changing the phra,5eology
of the Marshal when presenting the flag ·Or Grand Lodge· Officers .at. the
altar from
to

"I take great pleasure iii presenting"
"I .h m•e the honor to present." .
We move the adoption of that part of the report.

Part II.
The R_itual Committee has heretofore taught that the proper salute
to the flag is to stand at attention. The proof of the proposed new Monitor
provides during the ceremonies of, receiving and retiring the flag substantially as follows:
The brethren stand erect, placing the right hand over th; hea~t
and at t?e conclusion of ~he ceremonies his hand is dropped quietly ·
to the side.
We move the adoption of that part of the report:
JOSEPHS. GREENLEY,
EDw ARD KoroRD, •
OsBUERN McCRA w,

••••••• --.,. •• ••• ••• ••

,Total~ ........,............................, ...,..................... ,. ..........$17,578. 54
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, Chairman of your
Credentials Committee, and the Anglo California National Bank of San
Francisco, for making the necessary arrangements so that 111embers 1?1ay
cash their checks in. this building at the close of the Grand Lodge sess10n.
Checks will b e ready for distribution following the election of the Junior
Grand Warden.
Respectfully submitted,
0

w.

JOHN
DAVEY,
ARNOLD RuMWELL,
LLOYD
CAMPBELL,
F. WESLEY DAVIES,
FRANK
BOILEAU,

c.

w.

Committee.

659

Committee.

Part I was adopted and
Part II was not adopted.
1

Following .discussion relative to the subject matter of Parf II · of the
above report, the Grand Lecturer recommended the following: · '
· ·
." At the. reception and retirement · of the Flag of our .,.C~t.t~t~~ •.
members shall stand at attention with their hands at their sides. At · th.e
pledge of allegiance to the flag the right hand shall be placed 0 ~.e~ . the
heart and ~t the word "Flag'.' each extend right hand ho~izonta'!ty f•om
shoulder, . directly. toward flag, arm and hand straight, with ;h:in.d ·. opep;
thumb parallel with the_ fingers, palm of hand upward an.d just ·.~lig\jtly
cupped. At the conclusion of the pledge the right hand shall he .q.tiidly
dropped to the side.
· ·' ' •. · .. , .. ·

the

:t• ~;if(f

.

The recommendati~n of the Gr~nd Lecturer was .unanim0usly
adopted.
·
. : . 1 •.,
•

•.

:

!

•

,-n-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE' '.

660

.

!~ 'REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
'

To the M:.

W:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Policy ·a nd General° Purposes herewith submits
its reports and recommendations . with respect to the various . m<1tters contained in the annual message of· the Grand ·Master and th~ resolutions
introduced into the Grand Lodge, which have been referred to it by Grand
Lodge for its .consideration.
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association
The Grand Master referred in his message to the payments. heretofore
made by this Grand Lodge to the George . Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association, directing attention to the fact that the full ·quota
of $1.70 per capita had not yet been fully paid by us. He asked that \ve
do not close our minds to the possibility of making future appropriatioils
for this outstanding effort by American Grand Lodges to complete an
undertaking which has been well begun. He did not say in words, but it
doubtless is a fact, that during the present national emergency it would
be inexpedient and extravagant to expend large sums for building operations which could be deferred· until a propitious time.
Your committee recommends tha.t the subject be postponed for further
consideration by Grand Lodge.

The recommendation was adopted.
Courtesy Degrees
The Grand Master in his message has expounded a sound policy with
reference to courtesy degrees and has given a timely warning of the dangers
and abuses of a too-ready acceptance of applications and petitions. during
the present emergency. Much can be forgiven that is motivated by a
patriotic fervor, but carelessness in accepting petitions and in investigating
candidates should not be condoned. If our Lodges are vigilant, the mistakes made in 1917-1918 will not be repeated during these critical times.
A wise Lodge is not one that never makes a mistake but is one that does
not make the same mistake a second time.

Adopted.
Emergency Welfare Work
The Grand Master has given to Grand Lodge a full, businesslike and
timely report on the subject of Emergency Welfare Work. He co~­
clusively convinces your committee that it would be unwise to build and
staff Masonic service centers adjacent' to tl).e army camps and naval
stations and that no Masonk duty requires such an activity. His expositiort
of the obligations of Grand Lodge, the Lodges and members with reference
to 'Masonic service during the emergency is worthy of careful study and
in our opinion i-s a lucid -and practical statement which conforms to 'good
sense 'is well as Masonic principles and practice. He is right in belie.v ing
that 'Masonic:: service centers do not afford the proper approach to' a
difficult and pressing problem.
As ·he· :reported to you, he is persuaded that the ·wiser course. is to
leave the matter ·of Masonic ministrations and courtesies to th,e ·Lodges
near army posts, and in the case of extraordinary concentrations of men,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

66l1

where a need therefor is demonstrated, the establishment ·of an office .as· a
Masonic information center and clearing house for pur"ely Masonic services:
He .suggests that the Grand Master should appropriate funds to assist
ove;burdened Lodges in performance of unusual and emergency Masonic
duties.
· ·
Your committee is in full accord with the Grand Master in his analysisof .t~e problem and his application of sound Masonic principles to its
sc;>lut10~. We also concur in his -suggestion that the Grand Master, in his
c;hscr:~~1on, should cause needed money to be appropriated, under p.roper
cond1tions, to a Lodge or lodges rendering an unusual Masonic service
to Masons sojourning in California and serving in the armed forces of
th,e United States and its allies.
'
·

'.Adopted.
Notices of Suspensions
William Gerder, Past Master of Paul Revere Lodge No. 462, proposes
that Paragraph 10 of Section 44 of the Ordinances be amended to read as
follows:
"To keep in his office a fuil .and compl~te list and record of all
expu.1.s ions, suspensions, rejections and restorations, of which he -·
sh~ll be notified by the several Lodges, and to tr~nsmit to each
said L_odges, following each Annµal Communication:, a list of all
expuls10ns, suspensions, rejections and restorations w hich · ·have "
occurred during the preceding Masonic year."

of .

Also, that 'the su~ of $2_00 be a?propriated tp pay the expense involved
by the. Grand Secretary m carrying_out the terms of said amendment.
Your committee is of the opinion that the resolutions shotiid not be
adopted for the re~son that no good purpose would be serv~d· by ·sending
to each Lodge. a hst of all Slliipensions made during the year .. in all the
Lodges of. this J~ri~diction. Moreover, it is our opinion that .by reason
of restorations w1thm a year after sµspension, injustice might be · don e
and embarrassment ca.used by the publication of an action · whieh" bas
b~come a nullity.'. The proponent of th e resolution s express.es agre~ment
w1.th your committee.
·
For the foregoing reasons your committee recomm ends that ~he said
resolutions should not be adopted. .

The report of the committee was ·adopted:
•

·'

~i

.,, Re.m ission of Dues
~
Wri_ght L. Callei:ider, M~ster of Laurel Lodge No. 245, proposes- that
the Or~mances of this Grand Lodge. bc;,a!'nended by adding a new section.
to provide as_ follows:
.
·
··
"Any Lodge is hereby. authoriz~d to ;~~i·t in advance for the •
per_iod. of his s~rvice or trai,n ing, the dues of any ·member ~ho ·may '
pe l~ :i;uch service or training,•an_d no .per capita tax shall be· payable ,
· to the Grand Lodge for such member during the period for which
·his dues are so remitted."
.·
'

The 'proposed resolution 1>rovides for· the remissfon in advance of tlie
dues of a member in "i4e 'military or naval service and for the remission
of the per capita tax payable to Grand Lodge because ·~~{ such member:
The res~lutioi:i seems to proceed upon the theory that' a 'inan in the military
or nayal service of the Government is unable to pay · his dues. If that is
not: the undedying'Aheory, then it procee_ds apan the theory that·a man;

662

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

by services given m arms, . should by reason of such fact be relieved of a
Masonic duty.
·our law now prohibits the remission of dues in advance and it prohibits
the remission of dues for any stated period, but it gives to the Lodge the
right to annually remit the accrued dues of those of its members who
render special service for the Lodge or who are unable to pay dues.
It seems to your committee that the present law is adequate in the
circumstances under discussion. A member should pay his dues when
able to do so. His ability to do so may be affected by his service to his
country, and if the impairment in his ability justifies a remission of his
dues, the Lodge is authorized to make such remission.
Your committee is of the opinion that the present law should not be
amended and therefore recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

The recommendation was adopted.
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
Thomas F. Lewis of El Dorado Lodge No. 26 has proposed an
amendment to the Constitution to pr~vide for an increase in the per
capita tax of an amount not exceeding ten cents per member to be paid
into the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund until the fund is self-sustaining.
Lodge Maui No. 472, at the 442nd stated meeting thereof; by resolution
has proposed a similar amendment but has not fixed the desired amount
of increase in the per capita tax.
The reasons advanced by the proponents are that the present method
of raising endowment funds is not satisfactory: that there is a lack of
co-operation and participation 'on the part of the majority of the membership; that the cost of present methods is greater than the receipts; that
the work of the Lodges in connection with the funds is burdensome; tliat
uniform contributions should be made by all Masons without solicitationand they want a change.
There seems to be much misunderstanding of this widely publicized
and , important activity of Grand Lodge. All contributions an: voluntarily
made by members and not by Lodges. The work of the Board and of the
Lodge Committees is solely to acquaint the members with the Homes,
the need of a safeguarding and protective fund of ample proportions, and
to afford an opportunity for voluntary participation by gift or bequest.
Instead of drives for money, the effort is educational. A full understanding
of the needs of our Homes, which are a great, tangible expression of a
Mason's devotion to the principle of Relief and the care of Masons in
distress, widows and orphans, must neces.s arily persuade every Mason
to give something out of his store for the good of his Homes and the
proper ·subjects of his Masonic bounty.
The lack of full participation in the task of increasing the endowment
fund is due to our failure to fully acquaint the membership with their
opportunities to be helpful. The annual cost of the work of the Board
thus far has· never ·e xceeded $6,000 and the entire expense has been paid
out of Grartd Lodge funds and no expense money has ever been taken
from the endowment fund. The fund this year paid over to the Board of
Trustees of the Homes for maintenance $42,047.76. This was all jncome
from investm.ents. From gifts an<l bequests and capital gains the fund
was inci:eased $89,131.10 this year. Six thousand dollars is well spent
w~en it produces. such .splendid results.
While the members of your committee had varying views relative to
the endowment. fund, they are agreed that contributions .thereto should

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

663

be voluntarily made by Masons as individual gifts to a noble benevolence
and they deem it unwise to require contributions to be made by the
Lodges. A tax on the Lodges would shift what should be an act of grace
and benevolence on the part of a Mason to an act of compulsion imposed
upon Lodges that already are taxed to maintain and support the Homes.
The tax on the Lodges for the fiscal year just ended was $194,179.10.
A tax in any form is not a valid substitute for a generous heart.
For the foregoing reasons your committee recommends that the
resolutions be not adopted.

The recommendation of the committee was adopted.
Life Member Whose Address Is Unknown
The Grand Master recommends legislation to provide for those cases
in which the whereabouts of a life member is unknown for a period of
years. In some instances the discovery of the fact of the death of a life
member is not made until years after his demise. The rolls of the Lodge
continue to carry such a life member and annual per capita taxes to the
Grand Lodge are paid on his membership.
Your committee recognizes the need for the proposed legislation and
recommends that the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended by adding
a new section thereto, to be numbered 253 (a) and to read as follows:
The Secretary of a Lodge which has life members shall send, by first
class mail, annually to each life , member at his last known address, a
membership card. In the event such card is returned by the post office
for six consecutive years because unclaimed or the addressee is unknown,
the Secretary shall on the seventh year send such card by registered mail
to the last known address of the life member. If such registered mail is
returned to the Secretary by the post office, then the Secretary shall
report the fact to the Lodge at a stated meeting and make a note thereof
in the Minutes, and shall remove such member from the Roll Book of the
Lodge and shall transmit to the Grand Secretary, with his annual report,
a notice that such life member had been removed from the Lodge Roll
and the reason therefor.
·
In the event that such life member be found at any time subsequent
to his removal from the Lodge Roll, he shall immediately be restored
thereto and the fact shall be notified to the Grand Secretary with the
annual report and the Lodge shall pay all per capita taxes accrued on
such life member from the date of his removal from the Lodge Roll to
the date of restoration thereto.

The recommendation, having been approved as to form by
the Jurisprudence Committee, was adopted.
Masonic Magazines and Other Subjects
The special committee appointed by the Grand Master on "Masonic
Magazines and Publications" has presented its report recommending that
Article 2, Section 34 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended by
adding thereto a clause numbered thirteenth, worded as follows:
"To issue interdictions requiring the officers and members of
constituent Lodges to refrain from traffic with and to cease and
desist from giving any aid or support to any business, project,
scheme, plan, individual or concern asserted to be Masonic in
character or using any term, name or words implying a 1=onnection
with Masonry, whenever facts presented to the Grand Master
prove to his satisfaction (a) that any such business, project,

664

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

scheme or plan is un-Masonic, unethical, fraudulent, misleading
or q.tiestionable, or (b) that the individual, group or concern in
charge'of or. employed in the -prosecution, promotion, operation or
conduct of any -such business, project, scheme or plan has indulged
in un-Masonic, unethical, fraudulent, misleading- or questionable
acts or practices in connection therewith."
Your committee knows that the abuses proposed to be corrected by
such amendment have been called to the attention of Grand Lodge on
numerous occasions and that at times stern warnings were given to
offenders. We belie,ve. that the time has' now arrived when the Grand
Master should be given the power to investigate and to stop such abuses.
The resolution proposed by the committee appears · adequate, if enacted
by Grand Lodge, to have a salutary and restraining influence not only
with respect to so-called Masonic publications but to other activities ·
engaged in by Masons that do not accord with Masonic principles.
. The Committee on Jurisprudence· approves the said amendment as to
form and substance.- Therefore your committee respectfully recommen'ds
that this report be adopted.

The Jurisprudence Committee having approved the resolution as to form, the recommendation was adopted.
. Proposed Amendments to Section 210
Brother Wesley W. Kergari, Fast Master of Sequoia Lodge No. 349,
proposes that Section 210 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended
to prohibit. a Lodge from r_eceiving an application for the degrees of
Maso·n-ry, or· for· affiliation, from anyone who shall purchase a drink from
an owner, a~ent or employee in the saloon business or from a bar-keeper.
This proposal is undoubtedly a jest and introduced to expose an absurdity
in the civil and· Masonic rufes· rel;:"arding the liquor business.
·
He also proposes that said section be amended to provide that a
liquor dealer or bar-keeper shall not be deemed guilty of un-Masonic
conduct upon due trial and conviction "unless at such trial it shall be
found that the conduct of the accused has brought · the name of the
Fraternity into disrepute."
·
.
It is the opinion of y<J·u r committee that it would not be sound policy
to amend Settiori 210 in the respects proposed, and therefore recommends
that the reso!Ution ~e not aµopted.

The report of the coinmittee w~s adopted.
Committee on Masonic Education
Your committee has had under consideration ·the · ~eport of the Com~
mittee on Masonic Education and t)le recommendations made by said
committee, and your Committee on f'.?licy and General Purposes hereby
recommends:
i: T .h at the n~me of the C6mmitt~~ on Masonic Education be changed
to Committee. on Masonic Informatio.i:i.
2. That the committee proceed with its work in accordance with its
recon;i.meiidations numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.

The report of the committee was adopted.
.
Financing Building Projects
The Grand Master recommends that legislation be enacted which would
give the Committee on Financing Building Projects general supervision

I·

665

<Jver the financing of new temples, the refinancing of old temples, and the
financing of remodeling and reconstruction wherever such operations
assume major proportions.
The Ordina_n ces of Grand Lodge provide that a special committee shall
be appointed on financing building projects but it does not specify the scope
<Jf the duties, powers and limitations of such committee.
The Ordinances also provide, with respect to the investment of funds
of Lodges, that no such funds shall be invested in the shares of a corporation
owning or proposing to erect a Masonic hall, or in the land and building of
a Masonic hall owned or proposed to be erected by a Lodge. In this particular section of the law is to be found the only authority directly given
to the Committee on Financing B uilding Prqjects.
We are of the opinion that the law should be amen ded to broaden the
scope of action by said committee and to specify c learly the power and
duties of the committee. At the present moment there appear to be divergencies of opinion among members of committees having this matter under
consideration, and until some definite action and certain conclusion has been
reached regarding the proper legislation to be adopted, we respectfully
recommend that this subject matter . be postponed and considered as unfinished business at the next annual communication of this Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
Salary of Grand Secretary
Our old and good friend Brother C. E. Mallochowitz, Past Master of
Caledonia Lodge No. 486, proposes a resolution that the salary of the
Grand Secretary be fixed at $5,000.
·
The . Grand Lodge is a sovereign body and from time to time· can and
does fix the amount of compensation to be paid to officers and employees.
A restriction endeavored to be imposed upon Grand Lodge with respect
to its payroll could be binding only until such ti.m e as Grand Lodge, in the
exercise of its rightful power, rescinded it. Annualfy the Finance Committee reports to Grand Lodge a recommendation of salaries to be paid,
and upon such reports being -made, Grand Lodge determines for itself,
unrestrained and without limitation, the proper amounts to be paid. Therefo_re your Committee recommends that the resolu.tion be not adopted.

The recommendation of the committee . was adopted.
Organist
Brother Harold Morrison, Inspector of the 89th District, has introduced a resolution proposing that Section 1 of Article 2 of the Uniform
Code of By-Laws (Section 133 of the Ordinances) be amended to provide
that any Master Mason in good standing, whether or not a member oi the
Lodge, may be appointed organist.
There is no reason why any suitable person may not be appointed
organist by a Lodge although he may be a member of another Lodge . .
Expediency may make it desirable that some person other than a member
of a Lodge should be its organist. If appointed organist by the Master of
the Lodge, the person so appointed should be installed as organist.
Your committee therefor~ ~ecommends that Section 133 of the Ordinances be amended to read as. follows :
"Section 1. The Master, the Senior and Junior Wardens, the
Treasurer and the Secretaty, shall be elected in conformity with
Section 180 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge. The other officers
shall be appointed by the Master, except the Junior Deacon, who

666

; PROCEEDINGS. OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF C:ALIFORNIA

may be appointed by the Senior Warden. Any Master Mason in
good standing, whether or not a member of the Lodge, may be
appointed Tiler, or Organist."

Having received the approval of the Jurisprudence Committee
the proposed amendment was adopted by unanimous vote.
Constitution Month Observance Committee
The Committee on Constitution Month Observance has made its report
'to Grand Lodge and has made certain recommendations which have been
referred to your. Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and after
consideration thereof your Committee respectfully recommends:
1. That the Constitution Month Observance Committee be continued
for the ensuing year.
2. That September be designated as Constitution Month, but that
.Lodges, in exceptional cases, be permitted to hold meetings in
October.
3. That the committee be organized in its present form, or otherwise
subject to the wishes of the Grand Master. .

The report of 'the committee was adopted.
Time of Annual Meeting of Grand Lodge

M:. W:. Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Master, recommends that Article
.1. Section 31, of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended by striking
out the word "Tu.e sday" and substituting therefor t.he word "Monday."
If this resolution is adopted, Grand Lodge will meet on the second Monday of October in each year at ten a. m .
·
The .reason for the change, as stated by the Grand Master, is the
lack of tline for .the careful transaction of the business of Grand Lodge
during the time of the Communications as now provided by' the Ordinances;
that an increase of one day in the length of the. session will give gr'eater
opportunity for fraternal fellowship between the officers and committee-me·n
of Grand Lodge and the brethren in attendance thereat; and that a len'gthened session would add to the pleasure. of Grand Lodge week.
Your committee is in accord with the recommendation of the Grand
Master and is of the opinion that the business of Grand Lodge is of
sufficient volume to require more time for its deliberate consideration.
Therefore we re~ommend the adoption of the proposed amendment to the
Ordinances of Grand Lodge.
The committee also recommended that Section. 12 of the Constitution
be amended by deleting the word "fourth" therein and substituting the
word "fifth" therefor.

Report was adopted with the instructions to the incoming
Grand Master fo place this matter before the Jurisprudnece Committee for report at the next Annual Communication.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,
]OHN
SHENK,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
WILL H. FISCHER,
FRANK
MIXTER,
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,
WILLIAM B. OGDEN,
MYRON E. SMITH,
ROEERT PETSER,

w.

w.

Committee.

667

REPORT OF GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
COMMITTEE
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:.. ·
Your Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities respectfully reports
as follows:
The committee has endeavored this year to discharge to the best of
its ability the duty placed upon said committee of providing suitable and
interesting entertainment for the members of Grand Lodge during the
annual communication.
We trust that the program which was arranged was satisfactory.
Effort was made to include not only meetings of a serious nature, but also
entertainment. A further effort was made to provide some occasions to
which the wives of the members of Grand Lodge might be invited.
The arrangements included the conferring of a Third Deg-r.ee by a
·corp of San Francisco and East Bay lnspec"tors on Tuesday · ev.ening,
October 14, 1941. The following day, the annual trip to the Masonic Home
at Decoto was scheduled, and a large number of the members of Grand
Lodge and their wives made this interesting and instructive tour. In the
evening, the Annual' Get-Together Dinner was held at the Palm Court of
the Palace Hotel, followed by the premiere showing of the Grand Master'.s
Follies of 1941. In connection with this latter event, the committee 1s
particularly appreciative of those Masons in San Francisco who gave so
generously of their time in the preparation of the show and its final production. On Thursday afternoon a tea and concert at the Rose Room of the
Palace Hotel was provided for the visiting ladies.
A detailed account of the funds "expended has been submitted to the
Finance Committee.
In closing, the committee wishes to . express its appreciation to all
of the individuals who gave such enthusiastic support to our endeavors and
·assisted in the arrangement and plans of the week.
Respectfully submitted,
ALFRED BRESLAUER,
ANDREW BURKE,
RUSSELL C. HORSTMAN,
PRESIDENT EAST BA y MASTERS
AND WARDENS Ass'N,'
PRESIDENT SAN FRANCISCO MAS~
TERS AN.D WARDENS Ass'N,
SAN FRANCISCO iNSPECTORS, .
EnwrN
KEOUGH, ·
·

E.

D(JNALD B. RYAN ,

Committee. ,

The financial details of the report having been approved by
the Finance Committee, the report of the Activities Committee
was adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

668

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

669

whose By-Laws provide for meetings fixed by t~e phase of the moon
shall hold a stated meeting each lunar month."

, REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the M.". W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred that part
of the Grand Master's Message referring to Decisions rendered by the
Grand Master, has had the same under consideration and reports as
follows:
Decisions numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6:
We find each of them to be in accord with our Masonic law, and
recommend their approval.

The report of the l'!Ommittee was adopted.
DANA R. WELLER,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
JoHN STEWART Ross,
EARL w ARREN,
DONALD F. TYLER;
RAYMOND HAIZLIP,
Committee.

Adopted.
'To' the M.". TV:. Grand Lodge of California:
The resolution presented by Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams
at the Communication of 1939 was, at his request, deferred for action
until the Commu11ication of 1940 and favoably reported upon by the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes, which report was concurred
·in by Grand Lodge and by it referred to this committee for preparation of
legislation. In order to effectuate the policy adopted, it will be necessary
. to. amend Section 26 of the Constitution and Section 349 of Ordinances.
We therefore offer amendments and recommend their adoption so that
said sections will read respectively . as follows:
Constitution-Section 26.
"Section 26. Any proposed. amendment to this Constitution shall be
presented at an Annual Cominunication and shall in all cases be referred
to th~ Committee on Jurisprudence, who ·shall report thereon at the' next
Annual Communication when a vote may be taken."
Ordinances-Section 349.
"Section 349. Any proposed amendment to these Ordinances shall
bP presented at an Annual Communication and shall in all cases be
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, who shall report thereon
at the next Annual Communication when a vote may be taken."

The report of the committee was not . adopted.
Tc th~ M.". W:. Grand Lodge of California:
It has. been brought to the attention of your Committee on J urisprudence that there is a _provision in .our Ordinances relative to stated meetings
ofLodges which requires clarification. Time was when stated meetings of
Lodges were· contro!Jed by the phase of the moon and has not been
amended to meet changed conditions so that as the law now reads Lodges
which have their stated meetings fixed by a day certain in a calendar
month are not strictly co~p.lying therewith, there being more than twelve
lunar months in a calendar year. In order to avoid this. conflict and still
consider those Lodges which adhere to the lunar system, we have prepared
·· and submitted fo the Committee· on Policy and General Purposes the
following; amendment which has been apprnved by that committee, and
which we now offer to Grand Lodge for its consideration. "
We therefore recommend that the first sentence in Section 118 of
Ordinances. be amended to read:
"Section 118. 'A Lodge shall hold a stated meeting for the tr.ansaction
of its regular business once in each calendar month except that Lodges

REPORT OF SPECIAL TAXATION COMMITTEE
To the M~'. W:. ' Grand Lodge of California:

.
This committee has functioned since it was appointed by M.". W." ..Leon
Q. Whitsell, pursuant to the resolution of the 89th Annual Communication
·of Grand Lodge in 1938. The last annual report of the committee is to be
found in the 1940 Proceedings of .Grand Lodge, page 246.
The members of the committee for the current year have been:
R. P. Wisecarver, chairman, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478.
James E.' Hammond, Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568.
Walter Perry Johnson, California Lodge No. 1.
In the last annual report the committee advised that Lodges make ' a
full report to the various collectors for both old age security and · unemployment taxes, pay the taxes assessed, and then file a claim for
refund, which should not be pressed until later, pending decisions on test
cases. ·
· As of June 15,, 1941, the committee made a special report, which was
printed by Gr.and Lodge and distributed to the subordinate Lodges. A
copy of that communication follows this report. In this report we
recommended that returns for old age security be filed with the Federal
Government on any employee whose wages exceed $45.00 per calendar
quarter and, second, that returns be made for unemployment' taxes to the
Federal Government if the Lodge has eight or more employees (and to the
State of California if there are four or more employees), each of whom
receives ' over $45.00 per calendar quarter. This report of the committee
was based on the following decisions that have been rendered subsequent
to the last Annual Communication:
·
.'
1. A decision by the Deunty Commissioner, U. S: Treasury Departinent, November 18, 1940, that both the Grand Lodge · and subordinate
Lodges are exempt from the income tax under Section 101 (3), \Vhit;h
section exempts certain fraternal beneficiary societies. The sam~ d.etisio,n
refused to exempt the fraternity under Section 101 (6) of the Irtcoi:ne
Tax Act, which section exempts religious, charitable, · scientific, literary
or educational societies. The importance of 'this decision lies· in the fact
that Section' 101 (6) of the Income Tax Act is· given as a ground for'
exemptiori under the federal old age and security tax and the ' federal
employment tax, but Se.ction 101 (3), while it constitutes an exemption
under the i Income Tax Act, does not constitute an exemption under .. the
social'. security and unemployment acts.

GRAND LODGE OF · CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE '

670

The· same decision also exempts both Grand Lodge and the subordinate
Lodges from all capital stock tax.
'
2. A similar decision by the Deputy Commissioner holds. specifically
that neither Grand. Lodge nor the subordinate Lodges are exempt from
the old age secudty tax (federal insurance contributions act) or the
unemployment tax (federal unemployment tax act) and therefore that
returns must be made and taxes paid under both laws.
The plan followed by Congress in the federal revenue acts is to state
the exemptions under: the Jnq~me Tax Act and the taxpayer is classified
as to exemption by the specific exemption given him under the Income
Tax Act. Some of the .exemptiqns, but not all of them, are carried into
the other revenue acts. The one with reference to fraternal beneficiary
societies · is not carried over into the old age security and ·unemployment
tax acts.
3. The decisions to date also hold that unpaid officers and committeemen . of Lodge.s. whose dut_ies are. exclusively ritualistic are not tq ,be
counted as employees, but also hold that the duties of Master, Secretary,
Treasurer, Tyler and members of · the Petitions, Grievances and Relief
committees are not exclusively ritualistic, and therefore such officers must
be counted as employees. In this 'r espect we call attention to rulings that
the ·organist an'd soloist of Mas.o nic Lodges have been heid to be purely
rit'uaiistic officers arid · not · employees, and that no return need be made
for them. A claim for refund for any taxes paid · on account of their
inclusion ·fo 'Previous returns may he filed or · a credit may he taken for
such overpayment by applying ·sucli. overpayment -to the payment of the
current taxes, if any. ' ·
The ruling that the Master, Secretary, Treasurer, Tyler and members
of certain c0 mmittees are to be counted as .employees because their duties
are not , solely ritualistic, has been greatly minimized in importance by an
amendment to . the revenue act, which " provides that all ·organizations
which are exempted from payment .of the income tax under Section 101
of the Income Tax Act may claim a special exemption for services rendered
by anypn~ in their emp.loy . whose remuneration .for such sei;vice does not
exceed $45..00 ..per calendar quarter., Under the. rulings by the'(). S. Treasury
Depa,r,tment it. ~s held :that such . employees are not. only exempted from
tqe aft; l;mt ai;e alsp . not to be .c qu,nted in deteqpining the number .0£
etnpl~e,es . necessary t9 make (!n ,employment subject to the a<;t. While
this would, . on )ts face, relieve most Lodges from th(:! duties. of ma,king
a 1et111rn f<;>r .;unen;iployment taxes, .neyertheless , tl}e co1p.mitte.e is · 9f . the
opinion ~ha_t .t!te ' only safe. pr9c(:!dure to ,fqll<;>w \s to make .a full retur;n
l:>oth .for '9ld ,age. S,l!C)lfity and for unemploym.ent · taxes, s~tting forth all
of Jhe . officer~., aqd , the c.omn;iiVeern,en, !lnd then to claim both an exemption
from the taxes and an exception from counting _as c;mplqyees all of th.o se
officers; aod .c qmmitteemen w)lo were not paid $45.00 per Quarter. Any
:(,odge w,hifh . h<!-8 one or more em.p1<frees ' that ' received mo~e ~ban $45.,00
per ca,le'n<l:ir quartet n;mst, . pay t~e old. age se.cµrity taxes. ';!.'here is ,no fax
due
~h,e' . 'u11¢m'i'>loyll!-ent t.a x unl.ess the 'Lodge has four or - more
em~lqyees, who' receive more than $45.00 'per 'calendar , quar·ter.
.. . ·' '·
.
.
.
.
..
.
. ..
...::, ..
The con:11r.1ittee again _i:;a,Us .attention to the.Jact that the mere payment
of.a tax does not guar.antee that ._the . employee concerned will receiv.e any
benefi.t.for ,if, .in,.fact, .the .emploYee does not properly come within . the ~ct;
the :F.edera-1 Gp:vernment will. re.f\l,se tq pay any claim that .might be made
on his· a.cco1;1nt,. ,whether ,for unemployment relief or .for old age secudty.
This ·has recently, been called ,to the committee's attention in a moat
forceful manner by the death of our Gra,nd Lefturer. Claim on . behalf

fot

.

.

671

of his beneficiary has heen temporarily held up .by the Federal Government
on the ground that· the duties of the Grand Lecturer are more than
50% . devoted to .·· purely ritualistic work and therefore excluded from
coverage. A final ·decision has not yet been rendered, but it indicates that ·
claims will not be paid .merely because the tax has been paid, . and it
indicates further that scrutiny should · be made of the• terms of the act
to determine whet!ier any given employee comes within the terms ·of the
particular tax act.
It has been tire contention of the committee that Grand Lodge and
the subordinate Lodges should be exempted from the Income Tax Act
under Section 101 (6) relating 'to chari.table, educational and religious
societies· rather than under Section 101 (3) relating to ·c ertain· fraternal
beneficiary societies. The decision of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
has been against our · contention, and no test case has been decided by
a higher court. Untii such authoritative decision is made by a higher
court, we recommen~ that the . Lodges make their returns as follows:
1. A return on the jederal old age security tax on any employee whose
remuneratio.n exceeds $\5.00 per calendar quarter.
2. A return on the federal unemployment tax if the Lodge, has . eight
or more employees whose remuneration exceeds $~5.00 pet quarter, and
a return on the state unemployment tax if the Lodge has four or more
employees whose remuneration exceeds $45.00 per quarter. (Please note
that a credit on the federal unemployment ' tax of 90% is given if a tax
is paid qn the state unemployment tax.)
Other than cla.ll;ns for refund for taxes improperly paid for organists
and soloists, for which credit may he taken on. current taxes, we do . not ,
recommend . that any claim for refund be made at this time on any taxes
paid. There is a period of four years from the date th_e tax became .due .
within which claim for refund may be made for payments under the old
age security tax, and a · period of three years for ·. unemployment taxes.
If an authoritative · decision from a competei1t court is rendered within
that time, claim may then be made for refund.
·
'
·
Two recent enactments, one state and the other federal, ·have just .
come to our attention. The first is an act by 'the 1941' Legislatcire ·of
California, providing that all associations which agree to give benefits for
disability or death are to be brought ·under the supervision of the .. California
Irisurance Commissioner and ' will become subject to 'certain.- taxes due
from ins·uran~e farriers. Ytnii' committee takes note of the fact that the
members 'of various suhordii1ate Lodges' and Masonic associations ' have
formed widows' and orphans' funds which are probably subject" to · this
recent law, and that it may be necessary for -such funds to be 'incorporated
and· exemptions sought pursuant to the terms of the ·hew law, ·or otherwise
taxes will become due and payable on these funds 'in addition to penalties
that .might .b e assessed or inflicted because of the operation 'of an illegal;
unlicensed insurance association. Our in.vestigation discloses· that ' these
funds can probably be exempted '. from the operation of the act; but it will
be ·necessary for . them to make an application for exemption to the California Insurance Commissioner · ·in accordance with his rules and regul.ations adopted for th,at purpose.
, The second aet ·that has just been called to our attention is" the
revision 0£ the Federal Revenue · Act' in 1941, whereby certain taxes are
assessed on the social clubs ·for • dues· and · initiations. It is the opinion of ·
the · committee that these taxes are not -applicable to ·frat.e rilal · societies
operating on the Lodge plan, and hence that the Lodges a.re riot liable ·
for taxes on the dues or on the initiation fees .

672

L:RAND LODGE . OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your committee has held many conferences during the year and has
been in close touch with your Grand officers, particularly the office of
the Grand Secretary. We have answered many communications from
individual Lodges, in addition to filing the special report referred to above.
The committee had thought it would be able to recommend its discontinuance at this Communication, but unfortunately many of the questions
in issue have not yet been decided by a court of competent jurisdiction.
In addition, new revenue laws have been enacted both by Congress and
by the State Legislature which will reqµire careful scrutiny and interpretation to determine their applicability to Masonic Lodges. We believe
there will be urgent and technical .questions which will require the attention
of a special committee, and therefore we recommend the continuation of
the . committee for the ensuing Masonic year.
Respectfully submitted,

R. P. WISECARVER.
]AMES
HAMMOND,

E.

WALTER PERRY JOHNSON,

Committee.

The report was adopted.
To all Lodges in the Jurisdiction:
Re·: Special Report of Taxation Committee as of June 15, 1941.
Reference is made to previous reports of this committee and especially
the Annual Report for 1940, a printed copy of which was sent to each
Lodge and which is also to be found in the 1940 Proceedings o·f Grand
Lodge, page _246.
Both Grand Lodge and the subordinate Lodges of California have
been held to be exempt from income tax but not exempt from the taxes
of the Old Age Security Act or the Unemployment Reserves Act by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue at Washington. No decision has been
rendered by a higher court.
The organist and soloist of Masonic. Lodges have been held to be
purely ritualistic officers and not employees, and no return need be made
for them. A claim for refund for any taxes paid on account of their
inclusion in previous returns may be filed or a credit may be taken for
such overpayment by applying such overpayment to the payment of the
current taxes.
The committee therefore still recommends : ( 1) That returns for old
age security be filed with the Federal Government on any employee whose
wages exceed $45.00 per quarter, and (2) that returns be made for unemployment taxes to the Federal Government if there are eight or more
employees (and to the State of California if there are four or more
employees) each of whom receives over $45.00 per calendar quarter.
·. We recommend that claim for refund or credit of taxes improperly
paid for organist and soloist be made immediately. As to other taxes
paid, we have come to the conclusion that no useful purpose will be
served: by the filing of a claim for refund at this time. There is a period
of four years from the date tax became due within which claim for refund
may be made for payment on the Old Age Security Act, and a period
of three yea.rs from date tax became due for payments of unemployment
taxes, and such claims can be made if and when a decision by a court
justifies it.

67J.

Respectfully submitted,
Approved by
LLOYD

E. WILSON, Grand Master.

R. P. WISECARVER,

E.

]AMES
HAMMOND,
WALTER PERRY JOHNSON,

Committee.

At 5 :30 o'clock p. m. Grand. Lodge was called off until"
10 :00 o'clock Friday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF. THE

674

3Jn ~ranb JLobgt
·MORNING SESSION
Friday, October 17, 19-H.
Grand Lodge was called from refreshment to labor at 10 :<Xl
o'Clock a. m., the Grand Master presiding.
The Very Rev. Grand Chaplain invoked the blessing of
Almighty God.
The Grand Secretary expressed to Past Grand Master Rollie
W. Miller the congratulations and good wishes of the members
of Grand Lodge on the anniversary of his natal day. Past
Grand Master Miller expressed his appreciation.
A letter was then read by the Grand Secretary from Chas.
E. Anderson, Grand Organist, thanking the members of Grand
Lodge for the action in his behalf at Thursday's session. ·
A telegram was also read from the Grand Treasurer expressing his appreciation of the fraternal greetings contained in the
telegram ordered by unanimous vote at the Thursday morning
session.
The Minutes of Thursday's sessions were read and approved.
The Grand Lecturer moved that the Monitor as revised and
approved by the Ritual Committee be approved by Grand Lodge;
and that the revisions ordered by Grand Lodge at Thursday's
session be imprinted therein. The motion was unanimously
carried.
The Ritual Committee, to which was referred the resolution
proposed by Brother C. E. Mallachowitz, suggesting changes to
be made in the Lodge Flag ceremony, recommended that the
resolution be not adopted.
The recommendation of the committee was adopted.
Past Grand Master Weller reported for the Jurisprudence
Committee, approving the action taken by the Grand Master,
by each of the several Life Membership resolutions and dispensations enumerated in the report of the Grand Secretary. ·
Grand Lodge concurred.

675

"Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That under the direction
of the Grand Master such a series of pamphlets be printed and
distributed to all constituent Lodges, said. pamphlets to. be mailed
out with Lodge bulletins quarterly."
·
recommend that it be not adopted, for t):ie reason that in the opinion of
your. committee no useful purpose commensurate with the time and trouble
involved and the expenditure required would be served by sending adver.tising to all the Lodges respectink. the activities of the employment bureaus ·
located in metropolitan areas.
·
Your committee thinks that such adv.ertising ~s is .necessary, or
desirable, should be done by the Boards of R~lief' in their territorial areas.
For these reasons your ·committee respectfu'lly recommends tha't the ·
resolution be not ~dopted .. ·
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,
JOHN
SHENK,

w.

'

E.

ALBERT
BOYNTON'
WILL H. FISCHER,
., ;.,
FRANK
MIXTER,
RANDOLPH V. WHITING, ·
WILLIAM B. OGDEN,
MYRON E. SMITH,
ROBERT PEISER,

w.

. '

The report was not adopted.
.

'

.

Brother Russell C. Hortsmann then moved that his resolution be adopted and referred to the Committee on Finance.
The motion
was carried:.·
'
. '
By unanimous vote of Grand Lodge approval was given
to receiving a report from the Finance Committee on the Horstmann resoh~tion wheti" ~t ~as ready for presentation.
· Past Grand Master Crites, for the Committee on Finance,
reported their re~miit;nendation that the appropriation of $1,500.00
for carrying out Brother Horstinann's proposal plan, be not
made.
Adopted.
The Grand Master called upon· Past Grand Master Francis
V. Keesling, who had just returned from the East and the latter
hriefly addressed Grand Lodge.
'· '
11

:.df l ' '

Past Grand Master William Rhodes Hervey, for the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, reported as follows:
.

rv:.

To the M:.
Grand Lodge ot California:
Your Committ<;e on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred the resolution introduced by Russelt C. Horstmann, Past Master
of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, and Cyril W. McClean, Past Master of
Sequoia Lodge No. 349, reading as follows:

...

•,(•.

!~

.,,

...

676

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CR EDENTIALS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Credentials reports that the following members
of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled to participate in its deliberations:
Mileage allowed
".Representatives
Name of Lodge No. of Lodge
California........................_... N (). I ....] a mes Hurst, Master
Edward C. Lohmeyer, Jr. Warden
Lee Crawford, Past Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Daniel E. F. Easton, Past Master
Harvey Teller, Past Master
Western Star..................... No. 2.... Hugh A. Shuffleton, Master.............. 19.30
Tehama.............................. No. ,3 ..... Arthur Donald Savage, Master........ 5.40
George H. Raddy, Sr. Warden
Vyvan Burkett Lansberry, Jr. Warden ·
Chas. August Schwartz, Inspector.... 5.40
Benicia................................ No. 5.... Chester W. Arnold, Master.. _........... 2.10
Tuolumne........................... No. 8.... Donald L. Vars, Sr. Warden............ 8.80
Harold Smith, Jr. Warden
Corinthian.......................... No. 9.". .. Marion Ephraim Underhill;: Master.. 7.50
Jesse Davis McClung, Jr. Warden
James W. Robinson, Inspector........ 7.50
George W . Williams, Past Master
San J os~ ..,-..•._....._...,••.. _.,... No. 10....John Wilbur Fair, Master................ .. 2.90
Leroy Paul Kantlehner, Jr. Warden
Joseph S. Greenley, . Inspector.. ...... .. 2.90
Yount.................................. No. 12:.,.James H. Fisher, Master.... ,............. .. 2.90
Chester ·s. Bush, Sr. Warden
John J . Arnitz, Past Master
Nevada................ _.............. No. 13....J oseph F . St.enger, Representative.. I 5.60
John W. Darke, Past Master
Joe T. Moran, Inspector arid P. M. 15.30
Tempte...... .;.~.;;,:...:.:....~...... N o. 14.... Allen K . McGrath, Master
2.70
Stanley K. Coates, Sr. Warde1;1.
Eureka................................ No. 16.... Cecil G. Na?Y, Ma-ster.•-....,;-....... .,.. ~. 7.60
La Parfaite Union............ No. 17.... Prosper A. Sainges, Master
A. L . Auradou, P. M. and Inspector
Henri Mottet, Past Master
Michel E. Diebold, Past Master
Brewster F . Ames, Past Master
Andre P . Girerd, Past Master
Mountain Shad·e ............... No. 18....J oseph P. Poggi, Master.................... 20.62
SanJoaquin...........- ......... No. 19.... Virgil C. Cassilis, Master .................... 5.10
Washington ....................... No. 20 .... Crawford J. Porterfield, Master........ 5.40
Hubert E . Geisreiter, Sr. Warden
Hawaiian".:...........,............... No. 21 .... Alexander Potts, Inspector, Representative, Grand Standard Bearer.. .. 250.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

677

.O ccidental................- ........ No. 22....Webster V. Norton, Master
William E. Bouton, Sr. Warden
Robert S. Peters, Jr. Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Inspector
Ralph K. Marshall, P . M. and Gr. Tiler
William Penn Humphreys, Past Master
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
Karl J. Jacob, Past Master
Madison................•.......- .... No. 23 .... Ronald L . Pascoe, Master.................. 15.30
Frederick L. Carroll, Sr. Warden
Mariposa............................ No. 24 .... 0rville M. Whitley, Sr. Warden ...... 22.80
Fred C. Alexander, Past . Master
Jas, P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown ...............:........ No. 25 .... Geo. H . Schlein, Sr. Warden............ 9.60
Harry T. Carter, Past Master
El Dorado...... _.................. o. 26.... F rederic Dorman, Master................ _ 8.90
Ellsworth A. Williard, Sr. Warden
Joh~ H. Palmer, Jr. Warden
Harry L. Jaspar, I nspec tor................ 8.90
Trinity................................ No. 27 .... Harold F. Sebring, Master ................ 23.30
Arthur Paulson, Jr. Grand Deacon 23.30
Golden Gate....................:.. No. 30.... Edward A. Didier, Master
Carl Moelter, Sr. Warden
Fred A. Bradley, Jr. Warden
A. Sulby Kelly, Past Master
A. F . Heuer, Past Master
Gold Hill............................ No. 32.... Ch ancey S. Brockman, Master.......... 7.10
Walter N. Young, Sr. Warden
Ophir.'................................. No. 33....Jo.hn A. Manuel, Jr., Master ............ 10.80
San Diego,.;_;:.;•....- ............ No. 35 ....Laurence 0. Culp, Master ................ 43.38
Alden ]. Fulkerson, Jr. W arden
J as. B. McLees, Inspector ................ 43.38
Claude H. Morrison, Past Master
and Jr. Grand Warden........,. ......... 43.38
Howard.........,....,.......:....... No. 37 .... Howard M. Hicks, Sr. W arden ........ 28.10
Geo. S. Ward, P. M. and I nspector.. 28.10
Santa Cruz......................... No. 38.... Alvin L . Weymouth, Jr. Warden.... 4.70
Willett Ware, Past Master
Henry Kaiser, Inspector .................... 4.70
Sacramento...................:.._N o. 40.... Robert E. Walsh, Master.................. 5.40
Mark S. Edson, Sr. Warden
Ronald M. Cate, Jr. Warden
Chas. Madison Smith, Past Master
Martinez.............................. No. 41..~. Ernest B. Lasell, Master.................... 2.10
Stephen F. Ball, Sr. War.den
Los Angeles..............'....•.... No. 42 .... Edward Hyman, Master.................... 34.70
Edw. I. Silverman, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Asst. Grand
Lecturer and Past Master ............ 34.70
Hiram.............;........~ .......... No. 43... .Jam es R. Butts, Master...................... 8.40
Mount Moriah ..:.......'.........No. 44.... Edwin E. Keough, Master
Leonard F. Taylor, Sr. Warden
Keith C. Murray, Jr. Warden
R oy A. Pratt, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS bF THE

GRAND LODGE ()F' CALIFORNIA

Crescent........•.........c•••••••••• No. 45 .... L. L. Cranford, MasteL., .................. 27.70
Texas ........: ...............:......... No. 46.... David F. Wright, Master.................... 6.10
Forbestown....................... No. 50.... Chas. W. Adams, Master .................. 16.20
J. A. Vaughan, Past Master
J. D. Vance, Past Master
Illinoistown ....................... No. 51.. ..John H. Williams, Jr., Master........ 9.10
Suisun ....•................•.......c••• No. 55 .... Edgar Gillespie Long, Master.......... 3.00
Harry Nelson, Inspector.................... 3.00
· Volcano........ _.................... No. 56 .... Jarnes Giannini, Representative........ 8.40
Santa Rosa ......................... No. 57 .... Edw. T. Koford, Master.................... 3.30
Robert A. Miller, Sr. Warden
Ernest F. Pegg, Jr., Jr. Warden
Harold C. Bruner, Past Master
Karl F. Stolting, P. M. & Inspector 3.30
Raford W. Leggett, Past Master
F. F. Marvin, Past Master
J. T. Mailer, Past Master
Geo. H. Lindemenn, Past Master
Ellsworth Barnet, Past Master
Union....................•.- •......•.. No. 58 .... Leighton D. Armstrong, Master.... 5.40
Ernest L. Dryden, Sr. Warden
Harry A. Nauman, Jr., Jr. Warden
David L. Joslyn, Past Master
Howard S. Mcintire, Past Master
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range ....•..•..•......... No. 59 .... Ellsworth Barnett, Past Master
Frederick J. Joubert, Inspector........ 16.60 ·
Plumas ......- ......................_No. 60.... 0rval P. Myers, P. M. & Inspector 19.28
Live Oak...•........................ No. 61.. .. Reginald M. Mills, Master
Edwin G. Henderson, Sr. Warden
Ernest A. Hoffman, Jr .. Warden
Clarence A. Severin, Past Master
Chas. Edw. Haven, Past Master
.
Carl J. Macintire, Past Master
Natoma..•.........•.~..........•...-No. 64.... Robert F. Broadley, Master.............. 6.60
Amador.............................. No. 65 .... Frederick G. Geis, Master.................. 8.40
Forest·-·················-'-·········No. 66.... (Not represented)
Morning Star•-···'·•······-··.. No. 68 .... Allen Paul La Teer, Master.............. 5.10
Wm. Jennings Miller, Sr. Warden
Harry W. Bessac, P. M. & Insp..... 5.40
Enterprise..................,....... No. 70.... 0, Van 1-feter Sweetlan, Ma~ter...... 3.65
·ii' Alvin H. Pelton, Sr. Warden
. · ,~ Gordon Page, Jr. Warden
·· ' \ Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain .... _.....•...... No. 76 .... James Girardi, P. M. and Rep., .... ,.... 9.80
Calaveras ......•. ...;.•.... ,.·......... No. · 7'8..;.\Valtei; L. Banchero, Master............ 6.60.
Humboldt..............:..... - .... No. 79 .... Howard P. Noyes, Sr. Warden ........ 22.40
James T. Fraser, Past Master and
Pas.t Grand Master .......................... 22.40
Ione...............~........:......•..... No. 80 .... Newell D. Stewart, Sr. Warden...... 8.10
J. Wesley Sibole, Inspector .............., 6.10
Yolo.................................... No. 81.. .. Warren A. Dozier, Master..._., .._......... 5.50
Clyde F. Hayden, Past Master
Vesper................. :.............. No. 84 .... Stanley Pugh, Master ............... :........ 16.20
Elmer L. Stump, Sr. Warden

Naval................................._No. 87...!Joseph Andrew Johns; Master........ 2.00
Ralph T. Edington, Sr. Warden
Arnold L. tllsen, Jr. Warden
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Ralph N. Neely, Past Master
David. R. Doherty, Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Past Master
.
Rose's Bar............•.........:... No. 89 .... Theodore Schwartz, Master................ 8.50
North Star ......................... No. · '91.. .. R. N. Evans, Representative............ 32.10
St. Helena......................:... No. 93 .... James E. Beard, Master.................... 6.40
John Wilkels, Past Master
Henry Clay.......·-··-····-··-No. 95 .... W. Carl Smith, Master...................... 8.10
H orni tos .......... ~:................. No. 98.... Arthur K. Campbell, Master ............ 16.70
Yosemite .......... :.:............:.. No. 99 .... Peter Rahilly, Jr., Master .................. 12.60
Owen L. Craghead, P. M. & Insp. 12.60
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master .. *22.80
Ciay..................................... No:.101 .... Hans· Halderson, Master .................... 14.20
·
H. W. Hakerkorn, Past Master ·
OroviUe............................... No. 103.... Paul Stewart Stollar, Sr. Warden.. 9.10
Harold L. Mason, Inspector............ 9.10
Lexington ......................:..• No. 104.... 0tto H. Jons, Master .......................... 35.60
Walter C. Dachsteiner, Jr. Warden
Harvey Weaver, Past Master
Arcata ................................. No. 106....J. R. Brown, Representative............. : 23.90
Pajaro................................. No. 1.10 .... Lester D. McGowan, Master............ 6.00
William M. Strohm, Sr. Warden
William Haufe, Jr. Warden
Chico.............................:..... No. 111 .... Merrick E. Dearborn, Sr. Warden .... 10.20
Summit.......... :......:.....•....... No. 112.... Geo. Henry Groh!, Representative
and Past Master................................ 9.00
Eden ............... :.................... No. 113 .... Howatd L. Leard, Master
· Sidney B. Force, Past Master
Concord .........,. .................... No. 117.... Martin Chas. Davis, Master.............. 5.40
B. L. Sieferman, Sr. Warden
Arthur L. Johnson, Past Master
F:Jelity...................•........... No. 120.... Harold F. Klinger, Master
Lloyd .M. Broom, Sr. Warden
Robert S. Peiser, Jr. Warden
Allyn S. Wexel, Past Master
Milton T. Sapiro, Past Master
Philipp J acobovics, Past Master
Geo. K. Manheim, Past Master
Sholom Silverstone, Past Master
Alfr.ed F. Newmann, Past Master
Leon M. Loewenthal, Past Master
Seth A. Klinger, Past Master
Edgar C. Levy, Past Master
Harold S. Simon, Past Master
Jacob G. Leibold, Past Master
Abraham Jacobs, Past.Master
Leo J. Simon, Past Master
Henry E. Rudee, Past Master
Leo S. Schoenfeld, Past Master
Robert J. Himmelstern, Past Master

678

679

680

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Alamo..................:............... No. 122....Louis M. Miller, Sr. Warden ............ 4.10
Charles G. Faisst, Past Master
Sotoybme......................-.... No. ll3 .... James ' L. Durnford, Master.............. 4.10
· ·
R. E. Baer, Past Master
Table Mountain ................ No . .124.c.. (N ot represented)
La Fayette.............. _......... No. 126....Alfred Noble Starr, Master.............. 3.00
·
·
Charles H . King, Past Master
E . ·A. Feaks, Past Master
Hermanr,i............................ No. 127.... F. George Mammen, Master
Ernest Gentner, Sr. Warden
Moritz Dietrich, Jr. Warden
John Behrens, Past Master and Insp.
Emil A. Newmark, Past Master
Hans E . Warncke, Past Master
Louis Muller, Past Master
Henry Hanschildt, Past Master
Visalia............................•... No. 128....Joseph F . Link, Sr. Warden.............. 18.50
Daniel McFadgean, Past Master
Nicolaus ............:............... _No. 129.... C. M- J;lurchell, P . M. and Rep......... 7.50
W .o odbridge.. ,..................: No. 131....Jack H. Labes, Sr. Warden................ 5.60
Clyde · H. Gregg, Jr. Warden
Sincerity...................•......... No, 13Z:... C. -C. Siebe, Representative.............. 29.52
Vacaville........:.........:.......... No. 134.... A. E. Donald, Master.......................... 3.90
G. W. Hughes, Sr. Warden
Valley................................. No. 135.... 0llver R. Shelley, Master............;..... 6.10
Wallace Wilson, Past Master
Ralph M. Foote, P. M . _& Inspector 6.10
Pacific........ :.............:.......... No. 136.... Allen ]. Rosenberg, Master
Jesse A. Mueller, Jr. Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Chas. E. Jackson, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
·Albert A. Axelrod, Past Master
Crockett............................. No. 139.... Edwin ]. Kleinhans, Master
Ralph L. Mallett, Sr. Warden
Hanns Henry Stratmann, Jr. Warden
W~ A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
W . H. Mason, Past Master
N. A. Cleveland; Past Master
B. S. Pederson, Past Master
Z. R. Callaham, ·Past Master
Curtis:...........::..................-'No. 140....JohnA. Brown, Sr. Warden.......
5.20
Grafton............................... No. 141.... (Not represented)
Franklin............................. No. 143.... Norman E. Bunnell, Sr. Warden...... 6.40
Oriental.............................. No. 144.... William S. Davis, Master
Ralph E. Shupe, Sr. Warden
Milton ]. Burgkart, Jr. Warden
Delbert L . Berry, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Graham B. Pearson, Past Master
Alfred J. Snow, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
William S. Wells, Past Master
Charles T. Clark; Past Master .
Charles R. Brown, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

•

681

Roy N. Buell, Past Mast er
Richard H. Hartje, Past Master
William E . Connor, Past Master
Edwin Hansen, Past Master
Go. B. Lake, Sr., Past Master
Vitruvius...........•..•... ~......"':No. 145.... H. B. Kristensen, P. M. and Rep..... 4.40
Abell...............:.....:..:.-,.....::'.:. No. 146.... Frank W. Sandelin, Master.............. 6.90
Guss V. Wallach, Sr. Warden
. ·
Eel River!.... :...:..... ;.,;•......" No. 147.... Curtis D. Reese, Master.................... 21.30
Walter 'G. Orman, Inspector
Lassen .....:;.....-......'.....·.:........No. 149....James A. Nutting, P. M . and Rep ... 23.12
Molino.......................,.:...... No. 150.... Ernest 0. Talbott, Sr. Warden........ 11.30
Wooclland.......................... ",No. 156.... H. R. M cNutt, Sr. Warden................ 5.20
Fred Prewett, Jr. Warden
Geo. L. Stivers, P. M. and Insp....... 5.20
Keystone .....'...•.;..:.:........'.... N o. 161.... ( Not represented)
Harmony............................ No. 164.... Ernest M. Innes, P. M. and Rep..... 21.52
Excelsior..............:............. No. 166.... Bert T. Baker, Master
W . Blair Rixon, Sr. Warden
. Cecil C. Schulze, Jr. W arden
Walker Peddicord, Past Master
Chas. A lbert Adams, Past Grand Master
Fred W. Knight, Past Mast er
James W. Crosby, Past Master
Samuel H . Perkins, Past Master
1•
Alameda:.........~.....•....:...:... No. 167.... F . W. Montell, Master........................ 2.00
Ralph A. Richmond, Jr. Warden
Redwood City.................., No. 168.... Wm. A. Keller, Master...................... 1.60
·
···
Raymond G. Kelly, Sr. Warden
Julius M. Edling, Past Mast er
~ission ................... ..,......... N:o. 169.... Roy Herman Hinz, Master
,. , .
····
·· ·
· ·
Jack Edmund Hursh, Sr. Warden
· ·
'·
·wm. Edward Nutz, Jr. Warden
,;
Robt. E . Allan, Past Master
· '
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master
Elk Grove................::..'...... N 6. 173.... Ralph E . Rising, Master.................... 5.40
Thomas L . Conrad, Past Mast.e r
D.rytown....:....,:...:...........:~ No. 174....Ja,mes A. Ross, Master......:··--··········· 9.40
Antiocl\::.::.......:..,::.~.:.......'"N6. 175.. :.Lioyd G. Hoyt, Sr. Ward~n.............. 3.26
Phoenix...............~:•..•.•:..,:.. N9. 178..~.Lyman C. Linfesty, Master .............. 38.20
Emil T. Stahl, Sr. Warden
Mendocino.............c•••, ..._:••• No. 179....Theodore Wm. Markham,_
..
·
.
Sr. Warden........................................ 20.70
Petaluma............~............... No. 180.... Edwin E. Carmody, Master............... 2.40
Russian River ....:..:...•.;..~.. No. 181....Alton W. McCracken, Ma~ter.......... 3.80
Arbuckle............ ~.~.•:.~::"..:... No. 182.... Benjamin E . Perkins~ R ep................. 6.90
Clear Lake.........:,...........;,,.No. 183....John Franklin Kramer, Master.,....,,.. W.50
Sierra Valley..............:.....:..:No. 184.:.~Arthur E. Strang, Master ................... 25.20
Claiborne............,..;...,.:.... ~No. ·185.....James D. Moungovan, Master .......... 22.50
Dewitt Dunbar, Past Master
Evening Star......:.....:.,..,.•. No. 186.,.. Russell Farrington, Sr. Warden ........ 34.10
Keith ..............:.........,:...-..•._ No. 187.... Ernest A. Harrison, Sr. Warden:...... 4.70
Geo. E. Skillicorn, Past Master

PROCE·EDINGS OF THE

GRA-ND . LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Oakland.............................. No. 188....John A. Stohr, Acting Master and
·
Sr. Warden
William J . Kitto, Jr. Warden
Saphns Nelson, Past Master
Willard H. Nutting, Past Master
Frank A. West, Past Master
F. L. Arbogast, Past Master
Milton Hendrickson, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Grand Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Wm. S. MacMurtry, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Jr., Past Master .
' ·
Will R: Hill, Past Master
William N. Munro, Past Master
Howard N. Mosher, Past Master
Northern Light................. No. 190.... Walter B. Armstrong, Sr. Warden .... 19.30
Marin .........................:........ No. 191....Frank W. Boileau, Master
Jesse W. Tourtellotte, Sr. Warden
Clinton T. Duffy, Jr. Warden
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Harry F. Meilink, Past Master
Santa Barbara.............,..... No. 192....John Wm. Zuckweiler, Master........ 27.40
Ferndale............................. No. 193.... Eigil Jorgensen, Master...................... 22.50
Mountain View....~ ........... No. 194.... Wendell Grubb, Master.....................• 2.20
Howard H. Ainsworth, Past Master
Buckeye.............................. No. 195.... (Not represented)
San Simeon ........................ No. 196.... 0tto Reali, Sr. Warden...................... 21.20
Wilmington ....................... No. 198....Wm. 0 . Baker, Master ........................ 34.70
Garfield Tyler, Sr. Warden
Hartley............................... No. 199.... Thomas P . Hill, Sr. Warden............ 6.80
Guido de Ghetaldi, P. M. & Insp ..... 10.50
Wm. ~· McNair, Past Master
Truckee...~ .....................•.... No. 200.... Roy Allen Feathers, M~ster ............... 18.02
Silveyville.......................... No. 201.. ..Jesse Wm. Jones, Master.................. 4.10
Pentalpha........................... No. 202.... Wm. Wallace Stern, Master............ 34.70
Wm. R. Hervey, Jr., Sr. Warden
Laurence C. Kelley, P. M. & lnsp... 34.70
Wm. Rhodes Hervey; Past Master
and Past Grand Master-................. 34.70
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master.. 34.70
C~mfidence ......................... No. 203.... Edgar E. Breaux, Master.................. 6.50
Walter C. Buttle, Jr. Warden
Salinas..........................,....: No. 204.... Howard Cargile Sweet, Master........ 6.50
Olivet......................;........... No. 205 ....J. Roland Jackson, Sr. Warden ........ 10.80
Otto B. Liersch, Past Master
Stanislaus.....~..................... No. 206.... Charles B. Lindsay, Sr. Warden...... 6.20
Anaheim............................. No. 207.... Roy E. Field, Master.......................... 36.30
·
John M. Casey, Sr. Warden
Rio Vista....: .......·..•........'..... No. 208.... Charles E. Stewart, Sr. Warden .... ~. 6.40
Leon Van Laere, Jr. Warden
·
King David'·s .....................No. 209.... Lorenz V. Richardson, Master ............ 19.20
Clyde Herbert Snyder, Sr. Warden

Friendship........................_No. 210.... August E. Gleisberg, Master............ 2.90
··
Arthur E. Caton, Jr. W arden
1
Fred 0 . Eaton, Past Master
Darrell ]. Sedgwick, Past Master
San Benito.... ~........:.......... No.· z'11 .... Milton G. Hanson, Master................ 5.50
.
John David Krone, Sr. Warden
So ..San Fr:andsco....:........ No. 212.... Raymond Kaufman, Master
C. W . Russell, Sr. Warden
Frederick Junker, Jr. Warden
Andrew D. Lanetti, Past Master
Wm. Geo. Greer, Past Master
Simon Mc Greger McDonald, Past Master ·
Charles Frederick Hensel, Past Master
Henry Theodore Conserva, Past Master
H. R . Bandhauer, Past Mast er
Cyrus Henry Kramer, Past Master
San Buenaventura ............ No. 214....Frank W. Kellogg, Master ................ 30.10
Howard V. Keir, Sr. Warden
Wm. D. Brewer, Jr. Warden
O ak Grove.................:....... No. 215 .... Louis B. Gordon, Master
·
Arthur F. Strehlow, Sr. Warden
Wm. N ankervis, Jr., Jr. Warden
W . H. Oehlmann, Past Master
' Doric................................... No. 216 .... Bernard Fish, Master
Edward S. Aaron, Sr. Warden
Samuel K. Jacobs, Jr. Warden
Manuel Lafee, Past Master
Ira W. Coburn, Inspector
Monte1:ey........................... No. 217.~.'-John W . Hilbert, Master.................... 7.40
.
Clyde H . Warren, Past Master
Mosaic....................~........... No. 218.... Lloyd W arren Culford, Master........ 2.90
·
George H . Hansen, Sr. Warden
Manley J . Clark, P. M. and Insp.
Speranza Italiana............ No. 219.... Armando Simoni, Master
· ·
Louis Calderoni, Sr. Warden
John M. lcardi, Inspector
Frank Caroli, Past Master
G. B. Cordano, Past Mast er
Antonio Cogliandro, Past Master
· John D . Ambrosio, Past Master
J ohn Isola, Past Master
John lcardi, Past .Master
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
Downey.............................. No. 220 .... N eil Taylor Rogers, Sr. Warden ...... 34.70
Inyo............;.-.................;. No. 221.. ..Jack N. Hopkins, Sr. Warden............ 37.80
·
·
Jack B. Hopkins, Past Master
·
Roseville............................,No. 222....Joseph E. Neuerburg, Sr. Warden.. 6.50
. .
Lucas Schaffer, P. M. & Insp......... 6.50
Bakersfield......................... No. 224.... 0rville Lee Coburn, Master............ 23.50
Elbert Sargent Tolle, Sr. Warden
Lloyd E. Howell, Jr. Warden
Henry C. Mack, Past Master............•23.50
Arthur S. Crites, Past Gr'd Master 23.50
Henry Eissler, Past Master..............•23.50

682

683

PROCEEDINGS ·oF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brooklyn ................•........... No. 225 .... Guy M. Harris, Master
·
Evert B. Larson, Sr. Warden
Peter N. Keay, Jr. Warden
Louis Sutter, Past Master
Roy S. H. Lenthall, Past Master
William Keay, Past Master
San Mateo.......................•.. No. 226 .... Miles M. Anderson, Master .•.,.......... 1.10
Ray F. Eggers, Sr. War.den
George W. Deraimer, Jr. Warden
]. R. Eubanks, Past Master
Athens .................. ~·-··········No. 228 .... Frederick Lindsey Carll, Master........ 4.60
Solano................................. No. 229 .... Persis A. David, Master.................... 2.00
Alton F. Jackson, Jr. Warden
·
Henry A. Frahm, Past Master
North Butte ..............:........ No. 230 .... Clare B. Campbell, Sr. Warden...... 8.60
Covelo ........... ,·.......:............. No. 231.. .. (Not represented)
Janesville ..........................•. No. 232....Julian Mapes, Representative ............ '25.12
Calistoga ........;................... No. 233 .... (Not represented)
Hope...............,. ___ ;;...•......• No. 234 .... R. A. Scolari, Representative ............ 23.28
R. A. Emerson, Past Master
Surprise Valley.,............... No. 235 .•.. George A. Turner, Master................ 31.12
.
.
Raymond J. Turner, Past Master
Hills Ferry..,.....,.......,..,_..•.. No. 23_6 ... ,0liver Ellis Brown, Master.............. 6.60
Rudolph Cunningham Ferguson,
Sr. Warden
Wm. S. Thompson, P. M. & Insp. 6.60
Guadalupe ..................;....... No. 237 ... :Arthur R. Howard, Sr. Warden ...... 20.60
Colusa .....................".l.••••,..•. No. 240 .... E. L. Hicok, P. M. and Inspector.. 8.10 '
E. E. Simpson, Representative..... :.. 8.10
Santa Ana........ c•••••:••: ........ No. 241.. .. Francis C. Horton, Master................ 3.6.40
Dale A. Griggs, Sr. Warden
Augustus H. Allen, P. M. & Insp. 36.40
Magnolia .................;.......... No. 242 ....Jose Dal Pozzo, Master .................... 27.40
Joe Chibos, Sr. Warden
Albert Brotherton, Jr. Warden
Ralph C. Hine, P. M. & lnsp ......... 27.40
Eucalyptus ......................... No. 243 .... Chas. Marquess, Master
·
Harry A. Bradford, Sr. Warden
Walter F. Flierl, Pa&t Master
Alcatraz ... :: .........:.....::........ N o. "244 .... A vis Albert Campbell, Master
Haroltl Ransom Harrington, Sr. Warden
Abner Ferry Thompson, Jr. Warden
Edwin A. Clothier, Past Master
Lewis T. Corwin, Past Master
Latitel... ......... :.:..........: ....:., No. 245 .... Howard Rose Allard, Jr. Warden.... 9.10'
Abraham Boyd, Past Master
P6m';;';;.a ............ :~ .............._ No. 246 .... George G. Kirkpatrick, Master ..... .,. 36.80
Roy E. McCann, Sr. Warden
.
Chas. T. Richardson, Jr. Warden
Fresno...•.• \; ...:....,:......:....... No. 247 .... Ingvard Elmer Jacobsen,
Sr. Warden ........................................ 15.90
Harry F. White, Sr. G'd Deacon*"'*l5.90
Chester H. Warlow, G'd Lecturer 15.90
Fred P. Roullard, Past Master .......... *15.90

Alturas ............................... No. 248 .... Chas. S. Baldwin, P. M. & Insp ..... 29.22
Adin ....................;.;.......:...•.. No. 250 .... (Not represented)
Landmark.............·............. No. 253 .... Roy F. Wyatt, Representative .......... **5.50
Reading ......:....................... No. 254.... Edmund A. Bell, Sr. Warden .......... 18.30
·
·
Wm. Siebert Stevens, Jr. Warden
G. C. De Forest, Past Master and
. Assistant Grand Lecturer ........... :.. 18.30
McCoy Fitzgerald, Past Master
Welcome ..................::....••.. No .. 255 .... Harold T. Unander, Sr. Warden ..... 18.50
Lodi....'..............•.••..• ~........-No. 256 .... Walter B. Tindell, Sr. Warden........ 5.40
· T. Glenn Wright, P. M. & Insp..... 5.40
Penrhyn .....•..............;..•:....•.• No. 258 .... Ralph E. Naramore, Master.............. 7.10
Evergreen.............,:.....::..:.No. 259 .... Donald Galen Adams, Master....J••••• 38.20
Wm. M. Kirkpatrick, Sr. Warden
Willard G. ·Babcock, Past Master .. *38.20
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master ...... *38.20
James MacDougall, Past Master
·Henry D. French, Past Master
King Solomon's ................ No. 260 .... Hugh ]. Keville, Master
Robert L. Dreyfus, Sr. Warden
Albert 0. Rier, Jr. Warden
Henry L. Greer, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Wm. K. Cullen, Past Master
Randolph V. Whiting, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Tuscan ......................._. .. _.... No. 261.. .. Harry A. Smith, Master.................... 7.60
Lompoc ................,.............. No. 262.... S. J. Ward, Sr. Warden ...................... 22.80
Hesperian ..•......•................. No. 264 .... Morris J. Stephan, Sr.' Warden ........ 21.20
Orland................................. No. 265 .... Stephen Blacet, Sr. Warden .............. 10.00
Herman Thode, P. M. and Insp ..... 10.00
·
R. C. E. Weber, Past Master
·
North East......................... No. 266 ..'.. Lyle R. Hickman, Sr. Warden ........ 33.22
Galt..................................... No. 267 .... 0ra Oyer, Sr. Warden........................ 5.40
Durant..............•........•........ No. 268.... Leo G. Titus, Master
John C. Lewis, Sr. Warden
Kruger W. Wilkie, Jr. Warden
George E. Oxley, Past Master
Miles 0. Millar, P. M. & Inspector
G. A. Griesche, Past Master
B. J. Rose, Past Master
Olive Branch ..............••..... No. 269 .... Donald L. Abercrombie, Master.... 18.60
Snow Mountain ....•........... No. 271.. ..John L. Monday, Sr. Warden .......... 10.10
Pasatlena ............................ No."272 .... Christopher R. Radford, Master...... 35.50
Harvey H. Deeter, Sr. Warden
Anchor, .......... ._................... No. 273 .... Chas. F. Burke, Master ...................... 34.70
·
Benj. J. Little, Sr. Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, Inspector............ 34.70
Arroyo:..............;................ No. 274 .... Percy G. Hawkins, Master................ 20.20
Harry A. Truesdale, Past Master.... 19.20
Oakdale ........ ;..,;................. No. 275 .... Robert I. Mackie, Sr. Warden.......... 7.00
Bernard Hoisholt, Inspector.............. 7.00
Selma ..............:.....,•.:.......... No. 277.... Grady R. Hobson, Sr. Warden........ 16.90

684

685

686

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Southern California......:.. No. 278.... Lawrence L. Jeffries, Rep .....•........... 34.70
E . B. Spencer, Past Master
Caleb B. Yarnell, Past Master
Dana Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 34.70
.
.
Charles T. Medler, Past Master
Hanford...............•.....;........No. 279.... Floyd E. Pinnell, Sr. Warden............ 18.00
Wm. H . Baxter, P. M. & lnsp......... 18.50
Madera..- ...........:................ No. 280.... Ray Victor Secara, Master.............. 10.50
Donald G. Pitman, Jr. Warden
Mt. Shasta........:................. No. 281.. .. J ohn C. LaBarre, Master.................. 17.60
Callayomi...............:........... No. 282.... William L. Brooks, Master.............. 6.50
South West....•._................ No. 283.... Chas. R. Costillo, Master.................. 43.38
: .•
Raleigh Stratton, Sr. Warden
San Miguel......................... No. 285 .... Chas. Forbes, Sr. Warden .................. 12.20
Paso Robles ....................... No. 286.... Chas. D . Price, Master...................... 12.80
Stewart Jos. Bryan, Jr. Wa,.den
Henry A. Vorrath, Past Master
Winnedumah............,...:.... No. 287 .... Chas. Wm. Mumy, Master,....•.......... 40.00
Edwin A. Stevens, Sr. Warden
M~xwclL...'....................... No. 288.... H . C. Mathiesen, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 8.10
Elsinorc.............................:No. 289.... Howard G. Habenicht, Sr. Warden 38.92
East Gate....._............. _..... No. 290.... Donald F . Tyler, Master..............:..... 34.70
Ralph C. McCall, Sr. Warder;i.
Frank M. Smith, Deputy G' d Mast'r 34.70
Ralph E. Smith, Past Master............*34.70
William D. Taylor; Past Master
Fred 0. Hoffman, Past Master
Edw. Lee Stephens, Past Master
· Leo Haskell, Past Master
B. C. Arnold, Past Master
Robert Edgar Esterbrook, Past Master
Sai1ta Paula....................... No. 291....William G: Ellis, Master ...................... 31.10
Everett H . Williams, Sr. Warden
G. A. Quick, lnsp. & P . '.M ...:......:.... 31.10
Los Gatos...................:..:.:'. No. 292...: Dougfas W. Helm, Master................ 3.10
'
· · T·. M ." Widby, P. M . and Inspector.. 2.90
·wm . .Jones, Past Master
Orange Grove:,.:·.'..:...:.....~. No. 293 .... Sigfred W. Swanson,_ Master............ 36.40
Clyde F. Feldner, Sr. Warden
L eon 0 . Whitsell, Grand Secretary
and Past Master
·;
Jesse J . Hutchins, P ast Master
Traver...............................,. No. 294.... W. F. Haskell, Representative.......... 17.20
Mt. Ja.c kson:.::................... No. 295 .... Fred R. Nydegger, Representative.. '5.30.
Silver Gate.:;:,.......':.L,.,:.... No. 296 .... Edward J . B. Coyne, Master ............ 43.38
Frederick Stephen Weed, P. M.
and Inspector.................................... 43.38
Raymond P. Wakeman, Past Master
Dunsmujr..., •...,:.;...,•....;.__ No. 297 .... Chas. Edw.' Neal, Jr. Warden ...·..... 23.20
Liberty.:.::....'.L:~ •...: .•: •.: ...:.:.·No. 299 .. :.0liver- b. Scott, Master...................... 2.70
A. Roy Trc:igden, Sr. Warden
C. 0.: Burrell, P . M . & lnsp.....:..:.... 2.70
T. H . Mehlhorn, Past Master

Redlands ..........................'.. No. 300.... Ralph M. Van Dyke, Sr. Warden .... 38.70·
.
Arthur P. Crim, Past Mast er............•38.70·
·ontario............................... No. 301.... Geo. H . Swindells, Sr. ~ai:den ........ 37.10·
'
Herbert W . Bragg, Jr. Warden
R. E. Harris, Past Master
Santa Lucia............,.......... No. 302.... Ralph W . Dunham, Jr. Warden...... 9.60
Porterville.............."............No. 303 .... Robert L. Cogburn, Master.............. 19.98
Albert V. Button, Sr. Warden
.
.
Obed ·w. Carr, Asst. Gr'd Lecturer 18.98
Reedlev ............................... No. 304.... Cameron M. Cairns, Sr. W ar den ...... 17.28
Azusa.~..............•...:.....•....... No. 305 ....Wm: C. Heth, Sr. W~rden ................ 36.20·
Ashlar................................. No. 306.... Clifford H. Maxwell, Master............ 38.20
·
·
Robt. W m. Nicol, Sr. W ar den
Albert J . Erichsen, Insp. & P . M ... 38.20
Santa Monic.a .............::...,;No. 307.... Wesley D. Gill, Master ...................... 34.70
Bernard Jackson, Sr. Warden
'
Monrovia.............:..............No. 308.... Frank L. Scott, Master...................... 35.80
Clifford E. Emberson, Sr. W arden
Oliver L. Rawson, P. M. & l nsp ..... 35.80
Delano................................ No. 309.... Ernest P. Jemms, Master .................. 21.60·
Jesse J. Paden, Sr. Warden,
Sisson................................. No. 310.... Herbert R. Merrill, Sr. Warden ...... 24.10
Los Banos.......................'... No. 312.... N eil C. Nicholson, Master................ 7.80
Frank Jos. Hauert, Sr. Warden
' Tehachapi..................,..,.... No. 313.... H yram W. Stapp, Master.................. 26.40·
James H . Strada), Sr. Warden
·
Harry ]. Beanford, Past Master
Temescal........................;... No. 314.... Harry L. Whealy, Master................ 39.20·
Leo E dgar Thomas, Sr. W ar den
Norwalk..............•.............: No. 315 .... Benj. G. Skelton, Sr. Warden.......... 35.30
A. E. Dressell, Past Master
Sanger................................ No. 316.... Clyde E . Burnett, Sr. Warden.......... 17.90
F allbrook..................- ....... No. 317 .... Geo .. E. Kingston, Sr. Warden ........ 42.04
Emmanuel......................... No. 318.... Eugene A. Steadman, Sr. Warden .. 8.80
Hollenbeck........................ No. 319.... Chas. L. Aggins, Master .................... 34.70
·
Elmer M. Spicher, Sr. Warden
Leo 'y oungworth, Past Master
South Gate......................... No. 320 .... 0rval B. Berton, Master .................... 34.70·
· Cyril H. !iense, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master
Fred E. Ussher, Past Master
R obt. M. Allen, Past Master
Roy H . Longshore, Past Master
Delos C. Castle, Past Master
Chas. Ruble, Past Master
J. R. Neelands, Past Master
AlisaL.............................:.. No. 321....Edw. F. Nielsen, Master.................... 2.50
Edwin . E. Orloff, Sr. W arden
Alhambra..................~: ......: No. 322.... bena L. Butcher, Master .................. 35. 20
Wilson J. Clarke, Sr. W arden
·
Herbert C. Davis, Jr-_ Warden
Sloan Pitzer, Past Master
,
John R. Cornwell, Past Master
Whittier..:.......:...."············ No. 323 .... Arthur H. Martin, Master ................ 35.60·
Sam M. J ackson, Jr., Sr. Warden
Roy I. L eFever, I nspector ................ 35.60·

687

688

• i .·:PRO.CEEDINGS OF THE

Corona ..:..........~~·........... :..:. No. 324 .... Edw. H. Rowins, Master.................. :. 35.50
·
J. Arnold Davis, Sr. Warden
Consuelo ...............~...........• N o. 325 .... Ralph Dixon, Master.......................... 42.22
Needles ............ ~-'~---····:... _;N-o. 326 .... Ralph M. Blair, Master...................... 45.80
·
Carl C. Mikesell, Inspector .............. 45.80
Long Beach .................. - ... No. 327 ... John A. Buchanan, Master ................ 34.70
Clark H. Shaw, Inspector.......... .;!i~:i:· 34.70
Redondo ............................. No. 328 .... Earle J. Edwards, Master.................. 34.70
Thos. H. Lewis, Sr. Warden
Wilson 0. '· Wade, Jr. Gr'd Steward 34.70
Vallee De France............. No. 329 .... Auguste E. B.la~chard, Inspector.... 34.70
H . Biederman, P. M. and Rep ..:...... 34.70
Kilauea ............................... No. 330 .... Hilton C. Walters, Sr. Warden ....... .283.00
Pacific Grove .............,...... No. 331.. .. Henry D. Maybury, Master.............. 7.50
Arch Balchin, Past Master
Russell W. Giles, P. M. & Inspector Q.90
Geo. H. Schuyler, Past Master
E. A. Cope, Past Master
C. F. Dyke, Past Master
,
San Pedro.......................... No. 332.... Wm. Scott, Master .............................. 34.70
Alta........•........! ..•...............• No. 333 .... Mervyn J. McKenzie, Master ............ 26.82
Earl Heavrin, Sr. Warden
·'
Covina................................. No. 334 .... Randall T. Chew, Sr. Warden .......... 36.20
West Gate ............ ~.,........... No. 335 .... S. S. Simon, Master ...................... ."..... 34.70
Harry W. Link, Sr. Warden
Milton L. Lappin, Jr. Warden
Fruitvale ............................ No. 336 .... N ewton C. Hopkins, Master
Joseph E. Jenkins, Sr. Warden
Lynn R. Pryor, Jr. Warden
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
H. K. Taylor, Past Master
H. D. Swanson, Past Master
Carquinez...'....................... No. 337 .... Chas. A. Gray, Master-............. ~----·--- 1.80
James King, Past Master
Thos. Edwards, Grand Bible Bearer 1.80
John M. Curd, Past Master
B. F. Scribner, Past Master
W. S. Brunning, Past Master
San Jacinto ........................ No. 338 .... Maure Hurt, Sr. . Warden .................. 41.56
Hardus Sorkness, P. M. & Insp ..... 40.56
Fullerton ................•........... No. 339 .... N. A. Foster, Master .......................... 36.14
Lucien Canda, Sr.. Warden
Henry McMasters, Inspector ............ 36.14
C. Stanley Chapman, Past Master ..*36.14
Oxnard ....~ ............. :.: ........c.No. 341.. .. Reginald R. Newman, Master .......... 30.70 .
Wm. J. Williams, Sr. Warden
Harold V. Kier, Jr. Warden
1.
San Fernando ................... No. 343 .... Howard S. Strange, Sr. Warden ...... 33.50
St;irr King ........... :.......c••••• No. 344 .... Walter M. Goldberg, Sr. Warden
Clyde C. Henshaw, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
Lester T. Goldmeyer, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
Milton C. Zimmerman, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

689

C. 0. Munson, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master

Brentwood........... ·-···---·-··· No. 345 .... ( N of repr.esented)
Palo Alto ........•......... ,......... No. 346 .... Mywood L. Brockway, Master
Ralph C. Coppock, Jr., Sr. Warden
A. N. Umphreys, Past Master
McKinley ........................... No. 347 .... Albert W. Judkin~, Master
John D. Williams, Sr. Warden
Harry Ibbotson, Jr. Warden
I. McGuffin, Past Master
Rolla L. Eubanks, Inspector
San Bernardino................ No. 348 .... Walter W. Taylor, Master ................ · 38.20
Edgar T. Ham, Sr. Warden
Ralph H. Logsdon, Inspector .......... 38.20
Sequoia ............................... No. 349 .... R. B. Mortimer, Master
Henry S. Sayage, Jr., Sr. Warden
Jas. W. Proctor, Jr. Warden
Kenneth S. Thompson, Past Master
Donald M. Hughes, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
0 . B. Caldwell, Past Master
W . W. Kergan, Past Master
Fred C. Granholt, Past Master
Palestine ............ :................ No. 351....Frederick B. Winters, Master .......... 34.70
Samuel B. Young, Sr. Warden
Sunset ..................•.............. No. 352 .... Carlton R. Stiff, Master ...................... 34.70
Ralph H. Head, Sr. Warden
Geo. E . Delaven, Jr., Inspector .......... 34.70
Rollie W. Miller, Past Gr'd Master 34.70
·Samuel E. Burke, Past Gr'd Master 34.70
Lloyd E. Campbell, Past Master ...... *34.70
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master........ *.34.70
Pinole..................................No. 353 .... Harry Z. Howell, Sr. Warden.......... 1.40
G. W. Pfeiffer, Past Master
Presidio .............................. No. 354 .... Henry S. Richards, Master
Bernard B. Neider, Sr. Warden
Eric R. Johnson, P. M. and Insp.
Edw. H. Wilkens, Past Master
Louis E. Boivin, Past Master
Hollywood......................... No. 355 .... John L. Hall, Master .......................... 34.70
Ira Wm. Merrill, Sr. Warden
Jas. W. Crosby, Jr. Warden
Dudley F. Black, Past Master
Leo Anderson, Past Master
W. F. Burbank, Past Master ............ *34.70
Wm. B. Ogden, Past Grand Master 34.70
Mill Vailey .................. - ..... No. 356 .... Irvine T. Low, Master
Horace F. Gagwin, Jr. Warden
A: F. Thomas, Past Master
Frederick A. Penn, Inspector
Buena Park........................ No. 357 .... Theodore R. Siems, Sr. Warden .... 36.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Golden State..................,...No. 358...,f:dgar W. Otto, Master..........·-···-···· 34.7()
·
Elmer G. Hook, Sr. Warden
Ben Wright, Past Master
A. B. Dittman, Past Master
Loyalton.............................No. 359 ....Ste.wart M. Woodworth, Master...... 25.ZO.
.
.
J. S. Conklin, Inspector.................... 25.2(}
San Francisco .................... No.•360....Ross K. Roper, Master
Leonard G. Stevenson, Sr. Warden
. Harold W. Smith, Jr. Warden
Alfred J. Thibodeau, Past Master
Earle Freeman, Past Master .
Ernest R. Beyers, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
H. L. Alves, Past Master
Harold Louderback, Past Master
Iienry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand,
Secretary
Fort Bragg....:.......:.'.......... No. 361...·.Milas Green, Sr. Warden .................. 16.7<>
Norman G. Johnson, Inspector........ 16.70
Charity.;........,........~,.,......'..· No. 362....Wm. H. Van Dyke, Sr. Warden.... 3.10
Berkeley....•.:::......":•.....·...-N·o. 363 .... Laurence C. Moore,. Master
M. W. Sundquist, Sr. Warden
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
Willits.................................No. 365 .... Max Estill, Sr. Warden .................·..... 12.60·
A. B. Guslander, P. M. & Insp ....... 12.60
J. E. Winstandley, Past Master
Las Palmas .....:.................. No. 366.... Ira W . Farley, Jr. Warden................ 15.9().
·
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
J. R. Erskine, Past Master
South Pasadena................ No. 367....Andrew 0 . Porter, Sr. Warden........ 35.04
Horace E. Vedder, Inspector.......... 35.04
John B. Edmonson, Past Master
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity........,•........................ No. 368.... Chas. C. Stillman, Sr. Warden.......... 34.30
Dwight W. Stephenson, P. M ......... *34.70
Harmon A. Strong, Past Master
Ocean Park..........:.............No. 369.... William D. Tucker, Master.............. 34.70
·· ·
·
Ray~ond R. White, Sr. Warden
Amity..................................No. 370 .... Nelson D. Christenson, Master
Frank W. Bieg, Sr. Warden
John H. Lalor, Jr. Warden
Henry 0. Ha,mmerich, Past Master
Geo. Harold Grimm, Past Master
James E. Conden, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie... No. 371.. .. 0sbuern McCraw, Master .................. 250.oo·
Gardena.........:.'.......c........... No. 372....James Randolph, Sr. Warden .......... 35.5(}.
Keith Schlaegal, P. M. & Insp......... 35.50
West Los Angeles.......... No. 373 ....Allen L. Evans, Master .................... 34.70
Jewel................................... No. 374.... Elmer James, Master
'
Leo Bruck, Jr. Warden
Louis P . Mayer, Past Master
Hubert Ritter, Past Master
Clarence J. Shipaugh, Past Master
. Curtjs Benton, Past Master

A. R. Engle, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Chas. E. Anderson, Grand Organist
Richmond .................. ~ ..;... No. 375 .... Albert J. Boge, Master
John B. Bieg, Sr. Warden
Chas. C. Diebold, Jr. Warden
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
Douglas B. Cr'ane, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master :
Rudolph T. Haas, Past Master
James H. Cooper, Past Master
Ernest L . Fischer, Past Master
William C. Johnson, Past Master
Emil K. Bender, Inspector
Francis Drake ....:;..;.;.;.:,,.. .No. 376....Elmer J . Vaccari, Master
.
Artesia..:............................. No. 377 .... William S. Russell, Master.............. 35.30
Mizpah .......................:........ ~o. 378.: .. Archie A. McConnell, Sr. Warden.. 34.70
Virgil C. Fisher, Jr. Warden
Fillmore.............................. No. 379 .... Harold E. Dorman, Master ................ 31.70
Herman J. Haase, Sr. Warden: . ·
W . Howard Price, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach ........... No. 380.... Berrell R. Ries, Master ...................... 37.20
Perry L. Huddle, Sr. Warden
Oceanside...........................No. 381....Chas. F. Wittorff, Master................. 40.90
· Geo. A. Otis, Past Master & Insp ..... 40.90
Highland Park.................. No. 382.... B. Edw. Landis, Master..............·....:.. 34.70
Frank W. Pond, Sr. Warden
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Wm. S. Kienholz, Past Master
Ch~s. 0 . Brittain, Past Master
Orosi........,....•........:............ No. 383 ....William F. Hunter, Master................ 18.12
El Centro........................... No. 384.... Ralph I. French, Master.............,...... 54.02
Frederick W. Peterson, Sr. Warden
· Chas. H . Knight, P. M. & Tnsoector 54.02
John Stewart Ross, Past G'.d M'ster 34.70
Chas. E. Sones, Sr. Grand Steward 54.02
Dinuba................................ No. 385 ....John H . Wright, Master.. .................. 17.68
Geo. A. Graham, Jr. Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, Inspector....:..... 17..68
C'oatinga.,........................... No. 387:...Wm. S. Johnson, Sr. Warden .... :.~: ~. 20.60
Parnassus.......................:...No. 388.... Luther H. Arentz, Master
·
Geo. K. Crandall, Sr. Warden
Wm. H . King, Past Master
James E. White, Past Master
Joseph Chas. Durham, Past Master
Palos Verdes..................... No. 389 ....Walter F . Good, Master.................... 34.70
William W. Albers, Sr. Warden' · ·•.
Ernest E . Archer, Past Master
ln1Ptrial;...:........:..............,No. 390.... Enw. Z. Collings, Sr. Warden .... :;::.~· 54.02
Milton B. Griffin, Jr. Warden . ·
East Belt..............;...,.......,.No. ·39L.. Walter E. Ronten, Master................ 9.28
West Lake.:.....:;';.;...•........: No. 392'. ... Robert C. Peyton, Master................ 34.70
·
' Be'Verly F . Bolling, Sr. Warden
Wm. T. Osterholt, Past Master
· Walter L. Berger, Past Master........*34.70

690

691

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lee T. Mullen, Past Master...... :.......*34.70
Allan H. Osterholt, Past Master
Chas. E . Listenwalter, Past Master *34.70
Balder.......:.....................•... No. 393 .... Fred C. Shedwill, Master
LeRoy W. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Harry G. Peterson, Jr. Warden
Elias Ellison, Past Master
Marshall F. McComb, Past Master
University............,............. No. 394.... Myron E. Smith, Master.................. 34.70
Wm. T. Lisenby, Jr., Sr. Warden
Edw. A. Brown, Past Master
Frederick A. Morris, Past Master
Turlock.............................. No. 395.... 0wen W. Kerr, Master............•...... 7.00
Harry 0. Carlson, Inspector............ 7.00
Apollo................................. N o. 396.... E. P . Butterfield, Master
·
· Harry Turner, Sr. Warden
Carl E. Thau, Jr. Warden
J . L. Darms, Past Master
K. L. Mallard, Past Master
Rising Light............. ~ ........ No. 397.... Robert M. Dempsey, Master............ 34.70
Geo. C. Strandberg, Sr. Warden
John Richards, Past Master
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Fraternity.......................... No. 399 .... Vernon E. Perren, Master ...........:.... 2.90
Russell L. West, Sr. Warden
Burlingame........................ No. 400.... Edw. E. Anderson, Master
S. L. Hawken, Inspector
Bay View.........:................. No. 401.... Frederick H. Kronke, Master
Lloyd A. Hasha, Sr. Warden
· Norman H. Street, Jr. Warden
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Elvin C. Grosshans, Past Master
E. D. Sellers, Past Master
Harold M. Bankhead, Past Master
Brawley....'.......................... No. 402.... Lloyd A. Wise, Representati:ve........ 53.70
Yerba Buena.................... No. 403 ... .]ohn R. Keating, Master
J. Reginald McCloskey, Sr. Warden
Geo. T .. Walker, Jr. Warden
Glendora............................ No. 404 .... Roy E . Newman, Representative.... 36.40
Moneta................- ...:........-No. 405 .... Stuart B. Davis, ·Mast-er .................... 34.70
Bruce B. Liming, Sr. Warden
'
Walter J. Larter, Past Master
Sidney J. Holland, Past Master
Burbank....- ..........:............ No. 406....Thos. J. Henry, Master.................... 34.10
Wesley P. Short, Jr. Warden
Marshall John Flora, Past Master
La Mesa.................:........... N9. 407.... W. A. Todd, Sr. Warden.................... 43.38
SierraMadre ..................... No. 408 .~.Henry J. Nord, Master...................... 35.50
·Honolulu............................ No. 409.... W:i.lter R. Dunham, Representative..250.00
Charter Rock..................-No. 410 .... C. D. Milton Gray, Master
Edgar E. Randall, Sr. Warden
Sanborn H . Smith, Jr. Warden
James K. Fisk, P. M. and Grand Marshal
Henry R. Braden, Past Master
Frederic H . Elliott, Past Master

Stanley S. Juch, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Wm. D. Wisdom, Past Master
Perris....•............................. No. 411....Floyd C. Bonge, Sr. Warden............ 39.52
Calexico..............................No. 412.. ~. Dexter , D. Babcock, Master.............. 54.02
Waucoba.......,.................... No. 413.... Chas. E. Connor, Master:.................. 40.70
W. L. Davis, Inspector...................... 40.70
A~llngton........................... No. 414 .... Arlo D. Squires, Master.................... 34.70
Alfred J. Baker, Sr. Warden
Carl F . Peters, Inspector.................. 34.70
SilverTroweL.................. No.415 .... Hugh C. Smith, Master.................... 34.70
Wm. J. Atkinson, Sr. Warden
·
Clyde W . Shuey, Jr. Warden
Jos. J. Strauss, Past Master
F. Sydney Brennan, Past Master
·· Fred J. Martin, Past Master
· Lindsay.............................. No. 416....James R. McBride, Master.............. 19.38
·
Forrest E. Brentlinger, Sr. Warden
Edw. B. Gould, Inspector.................. 19.38
Clovi'-···························-···No. 417.... Carl 0. Larson, Sr. Warden ............ 16.90
Elysian ..........................:.... No. 418.... Chas. C. Ashurst, Master.................. 34.70
·
Jos. A. Forest, Sr. Warden ·
Aubry Miller, Jr. Warden
Uplarid..........:..................... No. 419.... Clare C. Blakeslee, Sr. Warden ........ 37.20
W . R. Farmer, Inspector ...............-. ' 3720
Kerman ............:................. No. 420.. :.Stanley Jos. Huggins, Master.......... 15.20
Inglewood...........................No. 421.. ..T. Chauncey Oestrich, Sr. Warden 34.?0
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master
Eagle Rock. .............- ........ No. 422.... Arthur D. Howard, Master .............. 34}0
John D. Dillon, Sr. Warden
Winston E . Squire, Past Master
Walt er H . Moulton, Past Master
York.................................._No. 423 .... Elmer J. Tarr, Master........................ 34.70
· Robert W. Slaught, Sr. Warden
Exeter.................................No. 424.... Adna F. Neil, Master........................ 18.98
James W. Cary, Sr. Warden
Wm. A. Waterman, Past Master
Frank W. Mixter, Past G'd Master 18.98
Holtville....- .................... No. 425 .... Dean S. Richmond, Master.............. 56.02
Midway.............................. No. 426.... Milton G. Ross, Master.................... 26.50
Gtiy E. Basham, Sr. Warden
Chino Valley......................' No. 427.... Harold D, Race, Sr. Warden ............ 37.80
San Dimas.....................:.:. No. 428.:.. Wm. J . Gillette, Jr. Warden............ 36.50
.
Arthur J. Tangeman, Inspector...... 36.50
Pittsburg........·-·-·--···;..,. No. 429.: .. William G. Buxton, Mast er.............. 3.00
...
·
·
· . Geo. W. Burris, Sr. Warden
.
Howard W. Ramsay, Jr. Warden
McCloud.............................No. 430.... Cecil F. Ahlstrom, Sr. Warden........ 25.10
Elliott M. Smith, Past Master
Chas. S. Hogan, Inspector................ 25.10
Alpha....................:............. No. 431....Samuel D. Korb, Master
Anshelm S. -Remell, Sr. Warden
Douglas J. Bacon, Jr. Warden
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Wm. · P. Self, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master

'. 692

693

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hammonton .•.,.................. No. 433 .... Leslie D. Gassaway, Master.............. 8.00
Maricopa......... ,..•.............. :No. 434.::.Hobart Starbuck, Jr. Warden .......... 26.50
Fairmount.;,..••.................. No. 435 .... Francis W . Wininger, Master
Elmer M. Webster, Sr. Warden
Leonard W . Harless, Jr. Warden
Claremont...........c••: ••••• : •••.. No. 436 .... Roy L . Thurman, Master .................. 36.90
Lancaster ........................... No. 437 .... Wallace Ward, Sr. Warden .............. ~ 30.00
Acac,la ............................... ;.No. 438 .... Rene Burgin', Master ......................... , 34.70
Karl L. Ratzer, Inspector .................. 34.70
Randolph Keisling, Past Master
Tyrian ................................ No. 439 .... Frank H. Whelan, Jr. Warden........ 5.20
Standard ............................ No. 440 .... Loris H. Bishop, Master
Edmund B. Hebert, Sr. Warden
Daniel G. Reid, Jr. Warden
DeMille M. Campbell, Past Master
Clifford J. Sorel, Past Master
F. J. Degan, Past Master
William F . Wood, Past Master
Coronado ................ ., ......... No. 441.. .. Wilson Calhoun, Sr. Warden .......... 43.38
. ·
Harry S. Clark, Inspector .................. 43.38
Frank E. McCreery, Past Master
Blackmer ........ :.................. No. 442 .... Edward Drake, Master ...................... 43.38
Clarence F . Terry, Sr. Warden
Warren E . Libby, Past Master.. .... :.*34.70
Schofield.......,.................... No. 443 .... Brevard D. Sinclair, Master ..............250.00
Francis J . Spencer, Jr. Warden
Carpinteria..c••••••••••••••••••••. No. 444.... Chas. Curtis, Representative ............ 29.10
Wilshire............................. No. 445 .... Harry E . Lindersmith, Master ........ 34.70
.
·
Gerald W. Page, Sr. Warden
Tom A. Dille, P . M. & Inspector .... 34 ..70
Frank E . Belcher, Past Master ........ •34.70
Fred E. Clark, Past Master
LeRoy Carman, Past Master
W. W. Chegwidden, Past Master
J. A. Klarquist, Past Master
Will H. Fischer, Past Gr'd Master 34.70
La Puente.... ,.. ,.................. No. 446 .... Winfield .S. Wallace, Jr. Warden .... 35.90
Torrance .........•...•.............. No. 447 .... Edmund A. Day, Sr.· Warden ............ 34.70
Mt. I>iablo................~ ........ No. 448 .... H .' R. Sickenberger, Master .............. 3.10
Carl Thorpe, Sr. Warden
Leland Pacheco, Jr. Warden
Patk....;.............. :..c••••••.••..•• No. 449 .... Edw. J . Drolette, Master
John Ferguson, Jr., Past Master
.
Geo. H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys ......'..... ,•.............. No. 450.... Walker A. Thompson, Master ........ 34.70
· .
·
Harold S. Morrison, Inspector ........ 34.70
Montebello.... ~ ...........•....... No. 451.. .. Willis P. Fisher, Master .................... 34.70
·
C. W. Higgins, Sr. Warden
H . S. Gerrish, Past Master
San PasquaL..,.........•........ No. 452 .... K. A. Reeder, Master .....................:.. 35.50
. · ··
Hal E. Rowley, Sr. Warden
Bethlehem:....... :.:............... No. 453 .... Geo. C. Rulofson, Master
Frederick H. Murdock, Sr. Warden
John C. Painter, Past Master

Chas. W. Green, Past Master
Arthur H. Peterson, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
Crocker ............................... No. 454.... A. F . Wickersham, Sr .. Warden
Edw. E. Smith, Jr. Warden
Geo. C. Chamberlain, Past Master
Walter C. Shenk, Past Master
James G. Allan, Past Master
Harold J. Dieken, Past Master
Golden West......................No. 455 .... Peter L. Jackson, Master
Earle B. Brehaut, Sr. Warden
John W . Mitchell, Jr. Warden
G. R. Brockman, Past Master
Ramona .............................. No. 457 .... Clarence W. Beckett, Master ............ 35.20
Carl W. Byerla, Sr. Warden
Henry S. Orme................. No. 458 .... A. Guy Karicofe, Master .................. 34.70
Wm. B. Mott, Sr. Warden
Fred. C. Warner, P. M. & Inspector 34.70
L. D. Collings, Past Master .............. •34.70
Riyerbank ........................•. No. 459 ....Allen C. Holbrook, Jr. Warden ........ 6.60
Mount Oso-........••............ No. 460 .... Stanley Walkerdine, Sr. Warden...... 4.30
Argonaut............................ No. 461.. .. Walter S. Flowers, Master
.
·
Sidney A. Romer, Sr. Warden
Arthur H. Schroeder, Jr. Warden
Addison B. Collins, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Sigfried Pets, Past Master
Walter R. Bowden, · Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
J. Dennison McCue, Past Master
Purcell Rowe, Past Master
Paul Revere ....................... No. 462....Wendell A. Stuart, Master
Ralph W. Dunshee, Sr. Warden
Wm. A. Gerder, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Joel H. Springer, Past Master
Harry A. French, Past Master
John Cox, Past Master
Roy C. Lemoge, Past Master
Morgan Hill...................... No. 463 .... Ernest M. Telfer, Sr. Warden........ 4.10
Alta Vista........................'. .. No. 464 ....Wm. J. Angenent, Sr. Warden
Pearce Glasson, Jr. Warden
F . J. Herz, Past Master
William L. Russell, Past Master
Center ................................. No. 465 .... Roy W . Peterson, Sr. Warden ........ 15.90
· Edw. L. Chapin, Jr. Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, Inspector ............ 15.90
Libertas .............................. No. 466 ... :John M. Adkisson, Master ................ 23.50
Fred L. Hayes, Sr. Warden
Clyde B. Zuver, Jr. Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Inspector........ 23.50
Clyde E. Mcilwain, Past Master
Culver City ..... ;.................. No. 467 ....Wm. H. Cantrell, Master .................. 34.70
Francis T. ·Reeves, Sr. Warden
Truman Van Dyke, P. M. & Insp. 34.70

694

695

PROCEFl)INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Rockridge .....,.................... No. 468 .... .Marshal J. Rutherford, Master ·
Morris E. Bruner, Jr. Warden
Willard W. Shea, Past Master
Yorba Linda ...................,.. No. 469 .... Alonzo J. Carter, Master.................... 36.70
Lincoln................................ No. 470 .... Al.exander McBirney, Jr. Warden
Arthur Joel, Inspector
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
Delta ................................... No. 471.. .. Robert E. Graham, Master.................. 5.10
Raymond I. Miller, Jr. Warden
Maui................................. No. 472 .... Stanley J. Hartman, Sr. Warden .. 272.00
Blythe ................................. No. 473 .... Belvidere L. Brooks, Jr. Warden .... . 48.62
Melvin W. Williams, Past Master
Victory ............. __ .......::.... No. 474.... 0tto VonRaven, Master
F. Jack Marsicano, Sr. Warden
Ernest Schumacher, Jr. Warden
Thos. Notaro, Past Master
America~·........:................... No. 475 .... J. R. Reynolds, Master ...................... 34.70
H. A. Save, Jr. Warden
'Coachella ......... ~ .. :.............. No. 476 .... Roy F. King, Master ........................ 46.40
Temblor .............................. No. 477 .... Glenn A. Griffeath, Master ................ 27.50
Chas. E. Simons, Inspector .............. 27.50
·
Thousand Oaks ........ ~ .... '. .. N o. 478 .... Kenneth R. Evan&, Master
.
Ferdinand A. Schlafke, Sr. Warden
Chas. C. Moore, Jr. Warden
R. P. Wisecarver, Past Master
F. A. Mainzer, Past Master
Geo. L. Hammon, Past Master
Golden Rule ........- ............ No. 479 .... John R. Kennedy, Master.................. 2.90
Fellowship ......................... No. 480 .... Leo C. Brandt, Master
Mt. Davidson .................... No. 481....Geo. A. Sohst, Master
Angus S. Holden, Jr. Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Master and
Ass't Grand Lecturer
Clarence F. Smith.,.......... No. 482 .... Thos. Grant, Mast.er............................ 34.70
H. P. Clay, Sr. Warden
.
Bell ...................................... No. 483 .... Chris 0. Sorenson, Sr. W4rden ...... 34.70
Wilber 0. Fawley, Jr. Warden
H. C. Com;i.ford, Past Master
Albert Pike ........................ No. 484 .... C. D. Browning, Sr. Warden .......... 34.70
Chowchilla ................. ,.c .... No. 485 .... Anatoli J. Maioroff, Jr. Warden...... 9.50
Caledonia ........................... N.o . .486.... Wm. L. Bradshaw, Master .............. 23.50
John J. Oliphant, Sr. Warden
N. D. Cleghorn, Past Master
Vallejo.............................c•• No. 487 ....John F. Spires, Master...................... 2.00
Wm. H. McDonough, Sr. Warden
Alvin N. Hulse, Jr. Warden
Thos. B. Pollard, P. M. & Insp....... 2.00
C. 0. Lindley, Past Master
Patterson........................... No. 488 .... Frank H. Roberts, Sr. Warden........ 5.90
East Bay.•..•!.....·-····'·········No. 48Q .... Edwin E. Hedene, Master
·
Chas L. Fread, Sr. Warden
Robert V. Abarta, Jr. Warden
Corcoran.:.:.... :.....·.............. No. 490 .... Ralph G. Gilkey, Sr. Warden ..... :...... 18.74
L. S. Randolph, Past Master

Woodstock.......•................ No. 491.. .. Clarence E. Maddox, Master
Frederick B. McAtee, Past Master
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Garvanza ........................... .No. 492 .... Melville H. Howard, Sr. Warden .... 34.70
Herbert H. Cox, Past Master
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Atascadero........................ No. 493 ... Roy D. Gilstrap, Sr. Warden .......... 17.10
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
D. Lloyd Balderson, Past Master
Acorn ................................. No. 494....J ohn C. Wickland, Master
Rowland B. Reinig, Sr. Warden
Lloyd N. Temby, Jr. Warden
Samuel F. Worswick, Past Master
Lebanon............................. No. 495 .... Fred P. Malitz, Jr., Master
Ralph H. Mahany, Past Master
Morris Rosenberg, Past Master
Riverdale ........................... No. 496 .... ~imeon E. Williamson, Jr. Warden .. 15.90
Fremont....................... ,..... No. 497 .... Harold J. Kuechler, Master
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
Stockton ............................ .No. 498 .... Roger W. Case, Master.................... 5.10
Edgar Daniel Young, Past Master
Capital City.....................,.N o. 499 .... Lester G. Bruno, Master..................
5.10
Eugene L. Rogers, Sr. 'warden
William D. Richards, P. M. & Insp... 5.40
Harvey Paige Gay, Past Master
Roosevelt ....................•...... No. 500 .... David Burgin, Master
Camillo Papina, Sr. Warden
Walter C. Zecher, Jr. Warden
Marvin Cloyd, Past Master
Miles E. Johnson, Past Master
Westwood ......................... No. 501.. .. Herbert M. Small, Master .................. 23.12
·
Eugene Smith, P. M. & Insp ......... 23.12
Granville R. Bradford, Past Master
Harbor..............................:No. 502 .... William A. Allison, Master
John Moore, Sr. Warden
Charles H. Schramm, Jr. Warden
Point .................................... No. 503 .... David G. Collins, Master
G. J. Allyn, Jr. Warden
Herbert R. Harrison, Past Master
Cyrus Martin Nielsen, Past Master
Seaside................................ No. 504 .... Chas. E. Cresmer, Master ................ 34.70
Frederick G. Berbower, Sr. Warden
Wm. J. Courtiour, Past Master
and Inspector.: .................................. 34.70
Wm. T. Corbusier, Past Master
Silver Cord ........................ No. 505 .... James F. McWilliams, Master............ 36.40
Coker F. Rathbon, Jr., Sr. Warden
Mount Olive ...................... No. 506 .... John W. Lehners, Master ................ 34.70
Harvey A. Harkness, Sr. Warden
Ed. L. DePatie, P. M. & Inspector.. 34.30
Fred A; Kelsey, Past Master ............ *34.70
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master and
Grand Pursuivant............................ 34.70
Z. Rodriques, Past Master

696

697

PROCEEDINGS; OF .T HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

El Segundo.......:... ,............ No. 507.... Raymond A. Magee, Sr. Warden...... 34.70
Joppa.................................. No. 508.... Eugene Wm. Nelson, Sr. Warden .... 17.40
Benjamin Franklin.......... No. 509.... Richard Simon, Master...................... 34.70
Willis L. Squiers, Sr. Warden
Philip B. Henry; Jr. Warden
Cupertino........................... No. 510.... (Not represented)
Sunnyvale..............;:.......... No. 511.. •. Jesse W. Reynolds, Master................ 2.40
fomes M. Moon, Jr. Warden
Palms..............:.................. No. 512.... Seth B. Chaille, Master...................... 34.70
Arthul" E . Williams, Sr. Warden
Cahuenga...................:.......No. 513 ....Harry E . Shimp, Master.................. 34.70
Earl W . Neal, Sr. Warden
Roy Caswell Bryan, P . M. & Insp... 34.70
Argonne.......:........:...........• No. 514....Edwin A. Gumbinger, Master
Frederick E: Wilheim, Jr. Warden
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
VermontSquare ...............No. 515.... Ford .E. Jackson, Master.................. 34.70
Wade H . Davis, Senior Warden
Taft.................... .::......,:......No. 516.... Adolph Reader, Master...................... 26.50
Earl P . Baker, Sr. Warden
Mt. Vernon........................No. 517....James T . Morrice, Master
Lawrence S. Cronander, Sr. Warden
Wendell T. Matlock, Jr. Warden
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Timothy W. McCarthy, Past Master
Alvar V. Sligar, Past Master
La Jolla............::..,..:.......... No. 518 .... Francis J. Garty, Sr. Warden............ 43.38
Euclid.........•..........•.:..........;No. 519.... Virgil S . Geyer, Master...................... 34.70
Ernest Ray Wilson, Sr. Warden
James T. Montano, Past Master
Ionic..........,...................:.....No. 520.... Harold H . Krowech, Master............ 34.70
David Berniker, Sr. Warden
Piedmont._.................,...... :.No. 521 .... L. D. Sherman, Master
Eugene T. Marsh, Sr. Warden
Robert A. MacDonald, Jr. Warden
Lawrence Bolenbaugh, P. M. & Insp.
Francis G. Tallman, Past Master
Sunrise............................... No. 522°.... Clyde f . Lanehart, Sr. Warden.......... 34.70
Walter E . Toole, Past Master
Bellf!ower .......................... No. 523.... Roy L . Stover, Master...................... 35.80
Fred E . Monroe, Sr. Warden
Catalina Island................. No. 524.... John W. Windle, Master.................... 41.70
· Edwin W. Smith, Sr. Warden
George Washington........ No. 525 .... Elmer E . Cole, Sr. Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City.....................,.......No. 526.... Abraham Schapiro, Jr. Warden
·
Thos. A. Dethlefsen, Past Master
Edward N. Jackson, Past Master
Covenant............,............... No. 527.... Floyd J . Lender, Sr. Warden ............ 34.70
Bev.erly Hills.....................No. 528.... George E. Hall, Master ...................... 34.70
Walter E. Egerman, Sr. Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., P . M. & Insp ..... 34.70
Joe Bookman, Past Master
IL~alty...:........................... No. 529.... Allan Fayne, Master .......................... 34.70
Louis E . Wass, Sr. Warden

S~n Garden........................No. 530.... Lincoln A. Spencer, Sr. Warden...... 15.90
Herbert R. Hargrave, Past Master

698

699

and Inspector...................................... 15.90
Alexandria......................... No. 531.. .. Edgar M. McCubbin, Master
Frank F. Goodman, Past Master
Philip L. Chase, Past Master
Smyrna....•...•.........•............No. 532.... Bernard J. Cunningham, Sr. Warden 6.50
Azure.......................,.......~.. No. 533 .... George D. Killman, Master................ 36.14
Homer Tidwell, Sr. Warden
Forest Hill ..........~.:............ No: 534....Anthony C. Tomen, Jr. Warden
Alexander Hamilton....... No .. 535....Lloyd H . Thee, Sr. Warden.......... 34.70
Seal Rock......................:.... No. 536....John L. Webber, Sr. Warde,n
John K. Wright, Past Master
Utopia........................;........ No. 537.... Paul 0. Gunther, Sr. Warden ...........,34.70
George Leask, Past Master
Ascot.................................. No. 548....James Edwin Cox, Master .............. 34.70
Chester W. Murphy, Sr. Warden
Belvedere.......................::.. No. 539.... F. H . Flowers, Master...................... 34.70
Dee Needham, Sr. Warden
.
Fred Hogben, Jr. Warden
Queen Beach..'...................No. :.40....Joseph .Bruce Love, Master.............. 34.70
Fred S. J. Hancock, Jr. Warden
Henry Morse Stephens... No. 54L.. Lynn M. Barrett, Master
·
Harold Schulze, Sr. Warden
Howard S. Hicks, Jr. Warden
Mark Sawrie, Past Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Merle Randall, Past Master
Joseph Ban viii, Past Master
.
A. L. Kon, Past Master
Lankershim....................... No. 542.... Charles Osborne, Representative.... 34.70
Signal........................,.., ...... No. 543.... Alvin Paul Bly, Master...........,........ 34.70
. Frederick V. Wright, Sr. Warden
Glendale.........................:... No. 544....Alexander H. Lapham, Master.......... 34.30
·
Alanson Swain, Sr. Warden
Jonathan............~ ................ No. 545 .... Samuel Brown, Master
John A. Carlson, Jr. Warden
Herbert E. Stone, Past Master
S.an Gabriel................:...•... No. 546.... D. H. Corson, Jr., Sr. Warden ........ 35.30
Arcadia................. ~ ............ No. 547.... Victor H. Gunderson, Master.. ;:........ 35.70
·
Raymond H. Rishworth, Sr. Warden
Triangle ...................:,......~. No. 548.... R. B. Cleaveland, Master................ 34.70
W. L. Wallis, Sr. Warden
·
Justice.:...•........:......:..•;.:.:•. No. 549.... Geotge David Horn, Master
Percy Vane Maury, Sr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Seaport........................:...... No. 550.... George F. McKarley, Master 1
Wallace L. Coleman, Sr. Warden
Walter H. E. \Ton Konsky, Past
Master and Inspector
Otto A. Holtzen, Past Master
James J. Yates, Past Master
John Alpers, Past Master
Charles F. Knipe, P ast Master
Arthur H. DeGuire, Past Master

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lakeshore.......................... No. 551.. .. Burrell L. Manuel, Master
Lloyd W. Hanson, Sr. Warden
Lewis B. Miller, Jr. Warden
John R. McKalip, Past Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
Semper Virens.................. No. 552....James W . Cochrane, Sr. Warden ...... 22.40
Etlucator............................ No. 554... _John L. Smith, Master
Theodore M. Noble, Sr. Warden
Donald B. Ryan, Jr. Warden
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
Peter L. Taix, Past Master
Gene C. Otwell, Past Master
Max Brent Wilson, Past Master
White Pine........................ No. 555 .... Charles G. Hughes, Sr. Warden ....... .24.80
Fairfax................................ No. 556.... Wm. M . Hoenes, Sr. Warden
C. Lester Covalt, Past Master
Hermosa ............................ No. 557 .... H. B. Copland Jr., Sr. Warden ..........34.70
Point Firmin ..................... No. 558.... Wm. H. Liggett, Master.................... 34.70
John R. Wyckoff, Sr. Warde~
Craftsman ................•.........No. 559 .... Avery W. Phillips, Master................ 34.70
Earle W. Niwton, Sr. Warden
·
David Edward Henry, Past Master
P . J . O'Donnell, Past Master
Plymouth ........................... No. 560.... Edward H. Siems, Master
Virgil R. Pace, Sr. Warden
Herbert M. McCracken, Jr. Warden
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
East San Diego-................No. 561.. .. William B. Marlow, Sr. Warden ...... 43.38
Pyramid.............................. No. 562.... Frank R. Fowden, Master
Murray W. Dore, Sr. Warden
James M . Reed, Jr. Warden
South Park......................... No. 563 ....James L. Hoover, Master ................ 34.70
D e Witt Talmage Wayne, P. M.
Foothill............................... No. 564.... Ludolf Wm. Folkers, Master
Carl B. Munck, Sr. Warden
Wilber C. Taylor, Jr. Warden
Frederick H. Camber, Past Master
Benjamin L. Miller, Past Master
West Adaqis......................No. 565 .... Chas. R. Hovey, Sr.. Warden....:......... 34.70
James E. Umfrid, Jr. w'arden
James A.. Garfield.............No. 566.... Harry M. Hunt, Master...................... 34.70
Searchlight.........................No. 567.... Houston C. Fairley, Master.............. 34.70
Robt. F . Daws, Sr. Warden
Park Boulevard ................. No. 568.... Lloyd M. Bradford, Sr. Warden
Richard M. Andresen, Jr. Warden
Jas. E. Hammond, Past Master
Kenneth E. Prettyman, Past Master
Chateau Thierry.:............ No. 569.... Don K. Hastings, Master
Irving Hazeltine, Sr. Warden
Beryl B. Berry, Past Master
David L. Babcock, Past Master
Paul W. Heisy, Past Master
~-Jack Ralston, Past Master
Military Service................ No. 570.... Robt. J . Martin, Sr. Warden
·
Chang Wah Lee, Jr. Warden
Fred L. Somers, Past Master

Francis K. Shattuck........ No. 571.. .. 0. E . Dellinger, Master
Jose A. Pivernetz, Sr. Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Inspector
John Tilbury Jr., Past Master
James Madison................. No. 572.... Norris S. Bradeen, Master ................ 34.70
Hillcrest...........:................:No. 573 .... Ever.e tt R. Ludden, Master
Arthur H. Herndon, Sr. Warden
. . · Letus A. Wallace, Jr. Warden
S. W. Hackett................... No. 574... :Raymond W. Perce, Master ............ 43.38
Fort Crook...:.....................No. 575 .... Emmett B. Tribble, Master .............. 24.30
Stuart D. Samson, Jr. Warden
El Cajon Valley.............. No. 576....John S. Carmichael, Representative 44.08
Sunnyside...........................No. 577., ..John A. Low, Master .......................... 34.70
Robert: C. Wilson, Sr. Warden
Louis H. Mahler, Jr. Warden
Percy L. Bruner, Past Master
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master
Progressive.. ~ ..................... No. 578.... C. F . Dickinson, Master ..............:..... 34.70
·
.
K . E. Casperson, Sr. Warden ·
Warren G. Harding......... No. 579:...'Beverty · Gibson, Master .................... 5.40
Santa Maria....................... No. 580 ...:Willard Cain, Master .......................... 45.48
Security........................::.... Nb. S8L .. Herbert A. Underwood, Master........ 23.50
Oran W. Palmer, Sr. Warden
Adolph R. Quiring, Jr. Warden
Rialto..........................:......cNo. 582 .... (Not represented)
Wasco,...•..,.:....................... No. 583 ....Jas. W. Williamson, Sr. Warden.... 21.02
~arding.. :..•.... ~ ..'... :...:.........No. 584....Warren B. Blanchard, Master .......... 34.70
·
John E. Marsh, Sr. Warden
Manchester.:t~,:.:::.: ..:...:"···No. 585.... J. E . Walker, Master .......................... 34.70
. .
John D. Shahan, Sr. Warden
Garden Grove.: .................. No. 586.... Rodney E. Collins,. Sr. Warden ........ 36.40
Valley Forge........•............ No. 587 .... Geo. W. Cubitt, Sr., Master................ 34.70
Frank_B. Magee, Sr. Warden
·•
Chas. L . W . Vocke, Past Master
Salvator Bonura, Past Master
~I Sereno........................... No. 588 ....Carl A. Halter, Sr. Warden ................ 34.70
_.
J. Kenneth N orthroup, Jr.' Warden
Kauai .................................. No. 589....Wm. R. Ralston, Sr. Warden ......... 272:00
Compass .....•........,.............. No. 590.... Chas. S. Imhoff, Sr, Warden ......:..... · 36.80
Escalon ..::.....:.....:............... No. 591....Cfarencc M. Gadbury, Mas ter.......... 7.10
.
Leslie A. Johnson, Sr. Warderi
' ·
Tujunga............,.................No. 592.... Henry Knollmiller, Master.................. 35.20
.
William Thomas, Sr. Warden
All States.....:.,.. ~ .. ~._........... _N~. 593;.... Geo. B. Dodds, Master ...................... 34.70
.
·
.
Raymond A. Bean, Sr. Warden
Service...............:..~............. No. '594.... Floyd R. Hammond, Master ......:..... 34.70
.
·
. Benj. E. Williams, Sr. Warden
·
Alexander Graham Bell..No. 595 .... Carl R Langjahr, Sr. Warden .......... 34.70
Guardian ............................. No. 596.... Edw. W. Upmeyer, Master .............. :34_;7()
·
: Lee Schexschnider, Sr. Warden
Pearl Harbcir.. :.~................ No. 598...:Robt. W. Benzie, Master ................,...250.QR
Carnielita........................... No. 599.... Clinton. C. Canipbell, Master .. :~:.~.'..:. '35'.'~o'
Merle F . Simmons, Sr. Warden
L Tylei: Parker Jr., Inspector.'......'..'.' 35:50
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master

700

701

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lynwood............................ No. 600 ... _J. LeRoy Johnson, Master ................ 34.70
Grizzly.............•.... ,............. ~o. 601..._Jos. D. Broyles, Master··---······-··-··-··-· 23.60
M~lrose.~ ...........•......•.......... No. 602.... Edw. W. Deckenbach, Master .......... 34.70
G. H. Leonard, Sr. Warden
J. Lynne Goode, ·P. M. & Insp.. ,...... 34.70
Earl D. Terry, Past Master
Dimond ....;....,:.•................. No. 603., .. Herbert H. Dubois, Master
Wm. H. Little, Sr. Warden
Oliver E. Nelson, Jr. Warden
,
James J; Torrison, Past Master
Jubilee................................... No. 604....James A. Rhine, Sr. Warden .............. 36.40
Glassell Park.•........ ~ .......... No. 605 .... A. T. Harless, Master.......................... 34.70
John P, McLean, Past Master
Sojourner .............:;_.,,,...... No. 607 .... Ernest R. Gray, Master ...................... 35.80
·
Grant E. Phillips Jr., Sr. Warden
Granada............ ;.................. No. 608 .... W .. A. Wolford, Master ...................... 35.20
,
E. A. Tompkins, Sr. Warden
Provident.....................•.•... No. 609 .... Isaiah L. Driver, Past Master
·
Leslie E. Wood, Sr. Grand Warden 5.40
Clarence E. Stephenson, Rep, ·--~---· 5.40
Elm·burst............................ No. 610 .... Albert. L. Hathaway, Master. - 1 ·:
. Wm. G. Lockyer, Jr. Warden
....
Robt; A. Wright, Past Master
Canoga .......... :,:,,,,.......•;...... No. 61L~Geo. H. Webb, Sr. Warden ......... ,.... 36.50
Temple City..:................... No. 612 .... Wm. E. Brown, Jr. Warden...........• 35.26
Three Pillars •............:......• No. 613 .... Elmer 0. Hoffmei.ster, Master•........;· 5.40
Samuel Van Lovell, Sr. Warden ·
.
Larchmont..........•...•:..,...... No.614 .... Dean H. Shoopman, Master ............:. 34.70
·
Hardie L. Potter, Sr. Warden
Newcomb Condee, Jr. Warden
,
.
.
Geo. P,. Salm, Inspector.......................,.34.70
Hemet................••.•.•,•..i ...... :No. 615 .... S, .Bruce Avon, Master ...................,..· 40.56
R. E. Dolley..,.:................. No ..616 .... Arvel D. Glenn, Master ..... :................ · 34.70
Big Bear ............:... ,,............ No .. 617.... Wrp. J. Nicker!, Master ...................... 43.20
Southland ...........,...,.......:··.. N9. 618. ... Jos. E. Rogers, Master ...................... 34.70
John W. Street, Sr. Warden
, : •.
. Wm. L. Hovis, Inspector ......... .'........ 34.70
Nep~ne ...... ,,~ ........ i,....... ,.. No. 619.... Wm. K. Brown, Sr. Warq~n .........,.... ,34.70
Poi11t L_omac....•.,..,..:........• No. 620.... Thero.n · C. Lake, Master ,. ... .,........... 43.38
.
. . .
.. Henry M. Reyno-Ids, Sr, .Warden
,
The Garden.S;-,,-~.·:·f-'··: ....·.... No..62L.,Ke1meth F. Watts, Master .................. 34.70
.
.
..
, , .. Chas. R. Witt, Sr. Warden . . . ,'•"
''"' :...., . , , • . Geo, V._. Jameson, Past Master
Atwater........................ ~ ..-I'fo. 624.... John G .. Gregory., Master.................. 34.70
'.
, "
Seth. J. Johnson, Sr. Warden·
•·
·
· : .,
Menorah .... ::.::.'..:..•.:..........:.No. 623 ... :Ha,rry Cherry, Master ........................ 34.70
'- t·
·· · ·
• ·
: Albert R. Giffard,. Sr. Warden
'
Fortitude............:...:.....·...... No. 624 .... Alfred L. Costa, Master
"
.. Claude E. Saimon;-Jr;·.warden
Angeles Mesa .................... No. 625 .... Carl N. Foster, Master .... __ ,..............!.34.70
. .
Harry L. Elliott, Sr. Warden
. ·· ·
Willard L. Sears,; Past Master
,
,,
C6ula'Vi'Bta:.......,. .... :.~ ....'..... No. 626~ ... Dav)d. ·A. Spencer, Sr. Warden.. ::::.... 43.38
· · · .
'· •
· ·
·
Chas. E. Smith; Past Master
··
1\ ~. . t:.. i I
.
'
:
Lamanda·Park...... ~.......... No. 627.... Herbert A. Harvey, Master ................ 35.50
.; 1 . ;
· · ·
· Robt.. C;. Stoner, Sr. Warden

Truth............ ,..................... No. 628.... Manfred R. Stever, Sr. Warden ....., ... ,34.~
Fairview ....•• ---~·····-·····--·No. 629 .... Wm. A. Curtis, Master ........................ 34.70
Benj. L. Irwin, Sr. Warden
W. Claude Hudnall, Past Master
Ingleside ............................ No. 630 .... Rolf K. Evans, Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Master
Henry C. Clausen, Grand ·orator
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Adam F. Krage!, Past Master .
Paul J. Knibb, Past Master
'
Benevolence ..................... )fo. 631.. .. Harry Platt, Master..........::.....,..;'..,.., .34.70
Wm. M. Page, Sr. Wa.rden .. · · ··
Normal Heights ...., .......... No. 632... :Willis R. Frazee, Sr. Warden ............ 43.38
Poinsettia.............'. ......:...... No. 633 .... Austin A. Rice, Master.. ...................... 30.10
'
Edwin L. Gardner, Sr. Warden
Wayne A. Simpson, Jr. Warden
· Louis C. Drapeau, Past Master........ *30.10
Victorville .......................... No. 634 ... _James H. Leggett, Masfer ........ ,.:..,,. 40.88
Riverside .............- ............. ~o. 635 .... Emory B. Petherbridge, Master...... 38.20
John Marsha!L. ................ No. 636 .... G. W. Boucher, Master.... ,.............. ,., 34,70
Palisades ...................... ,..... No. 637 .... Howard E: Riley, Maste'r .. ~ ........:..... : 34.70·
··Jay S, Walton, Sr. Warden
Chas. IL Foye Jr., Inspector,:~....... 34.70
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
·
Jno. C. Boggs, Past Master_. 1 • •
Indian Rock ..........•,.......... No. 63,8.... Raymond Harsch, Master
Melville H. Radke, Sr. Warden
E: Roland Foster, Past Master
Composite ...............•.....•. :.. No: 639 .... Benedict A. Seiser, Sr. Warden........ 34.70
Veritas ....... :...........,............ Np. 640 .. ._.Winfic:;ld Attenborough, Master '
Lorin,, L: Coats, Sr. Warden
Albert A. ij:ewett, Jr. Warden,
. , Chas. R. O'Dpnnell, Past Mast.er
'"
.
. Washington '1, Kohnke, fnspe'ctor
James A. Foshay ...... ,., ....Jfo. 641....Alfred Chaudet, Jr. Warden .............. 34.70
La Cumbre..................... --~o. 642.... Geo, R. Hoyt, Sr. Warden ................ 27.40
'
Merrell.]. Ferree, Jr. Warden
. ·
Alta Loma,.........•....:.«·•···•.No. 643 .... E .. :f1 ,N. Cruchley, Master ................ 34.70
·
,
Homer C. Mills, Sr. Warden
Lomita.................:.............. No:'644.... Philip G. Ried, ·sr. Warden .... :.:~: .. ~:.:. 34.70
A. F. E. Irwin ................::. No. 645 .... Robt. B. Carstens, Master ...... :......... 34.70
Alfr<ed C. Clark, Sr. Warden
.. 1
·
·
Metropolitan ........ ,............ No. 646, .. _Jas. W, MacDonald, Representatiye 34.70
Hawthorne ......................... No.. 647.... C, D. Goodale, Sr. Warden ........,........ 34.70
.
,.,.,
L. ~- Henry, Past Master
·
Dam~scus ..••~:~'·;··-····"······ ~o. 648.... Chas: Pease, Master .......................... 38.20
. ,,
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
·
Myron D. Abbott, Past Master
. ,.
, ,
Florence ............................. N.9. 649 .... Eq1est W. Dorsett, Master.............. '3(70
La Brea ..........:.'.................)ro. 650 ....John W. Swank, Master .................... 34.70
·'
··
'Walter E. Robertson,-Sr-.·Warden'' "'. · ·
'; Wm ..T. Wheeling, Past Master
Menlo Park. ...................... NP, q5L ..James.H. J. Brown, Ma_ster ..........-,.,. 1.80
"· · ":
Ches~er B. Buckhout, Sr. Warden
.
J., Ro.ss Hardy,, Past_ Master
Crescenta.Valiey....•....... :.N&. 652 .. ,.Robt. W. Cooper, Sr. Warden .......... 34.7°0

..

703

705

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fontana.............................. No. 653 ..c.Ross W. Gesler, Master .................... 37.9(}
. Jess Lee Bedwell, Sr. Warden
Jordan ................................. No. 654.... R. H. Ovendale, Sr. Warden.. ·--··--·- 34.7(}
Leonard Gross, Inspector --··-·-········· 34.70
Monte Vista.....................: No. 655 .... Raymond Moore, Master .................. 34.70
Citrol................................... No. 656.... Roy W. Monroe, Master .................... 34.70
John D. Spreckels............ No. 657 .... Lowry J. Benbrook, Jr. Warden ...... 43.38
John T. Martin, Past Master............*43.38
Livingston......................... No. 658.... Clarence J. Carpenter, Sr. Warden.. 7.60
La Habra........................... No. 659 .... Ewell C: Counts, Sr. Warden............ 36.10
Baldwin Park.................... No. 660.... Geo. C. Semler, Sr. Warden.............. 36.00
Malta...............- ......: ..._.......No. 661.. ..John W. Buchholz, Master................ 34.7(}
W. D. Widney, Sr. Warden
Earl V. Mater, Jr. Warden
Henry Knox.: ....................No. 662.... Raymond H . Cobb, Master.............. 34-70
Tracey S. Cox, Sr. Warden
OjaL.:,,... ::~ ..............: ......... No. 663.... Atvah R. McCoy, Master ·---------··-··--- 30.90
Kaweah.,......;.:.,...........,.,... No. 665 .... Roscoe E. \\'.ood, Master·----------------· 19.5(}
·
'
Gilbert J. Rohn, Sr. Warden
Reseda ....;........................... No. 666.... Alvah M. Hill, Sr. Warden ________________ 34.70
Meridian............................. No. 667.... Chas. A. Gould, Sr. Warden.............. 34.W
John R. Moore, P. M. & Inspector 34.70 ·
·
San Gorgonio.....,.............. No. 668.... Arthur Harrold, Master·····-·-·--·---------- 41.60
John Phillips, Sr. Warden
.
John P. Jarman ................. No. 669 .... 0scar R. Lattin, Master·-------------······-· 2.90
Guy M. Bemiss, Sr. Warden
Edw.- W. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Pritchard Herbert, Past Master
M. H. Kent, Past Master
Greenleaf............................No. 670.... Walter R. Wegner, Master ---··-:··------' 35.60·
Warren R. Fitch, Sr. Warden
San Clemente ___._____ :_________ No. 67L.Peter M. Cowie, Sr. Warden ·----------- 39.56
Laguna Beach ................... No. 672 .... Harlan Durand, Jr. Warden -·--·-····-· 38.2(}
Far West.............;..............No."673.... Raymond J. Rock, Master
Chas. W. Qualman, Jr. Warden
Chris Christensen, Inspector
Dean Wilson, Past' Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Los Cerritos ...................... No. 674.... Morris Greenberg, Master -----······--·-· 34.7fr
Herbert C. Goldman, Pa'st Master
Modesto............................. No. 675 .... Edgar L. Gilson, Sr. Warden............ 6.20
Willow Glen......................No. 676.... Henry J. Console, Master ·-------··-···-- 2.90
Liberal Arts...................... No. 677 .... R. H. Christman, Sr. Warden......:... 34.7(}
Floyd E. Goodan, Past Master
, ,G. Ellsworth Meyer, Past Master.... *34.70
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master
Altadena.................. :..........No. 678 .... Bror G. Larson, Master.·--···---···---···-· 35.50·
Byron W. Weekes, Sr. Warden
Canby Cross..:................... No. 679....0tis Roper, Jr. Warden ----·-------------·- 34.30
Carmel................................ No. 680.... Chas. A. Watson, P . M. and Rep..... 7.50
Dos Palos.::...................... No. 681.'. .. Glen Holmes, Master -----···-'·---------··-· 8.4(}
Sam·uel E. Harris, Past Master
Barstow...:.............·-··--··--· No. 682 .... Paul B. · Procter, Maste~---··-···--------··- 32.7(}
Vincent B. Claypool, Sr. Warden

Redwood Empire............ No. 683 .... Ray I. Giles, Master ····---------·------------ 16.20
Fred A. Vincent, Sr. Warden
Arthur D. Lobingier, Past Master
Trona,....~............................. U . ]) ..... Gayle Haughton Jr., Master ............ 39.60
Ray T. Saul, Sr. Warden
W. L. Denton, Jr. Warden

704

•

Respectfully submitted,
Louis SUTTER,
RALPH E. SMiTH,
ELLSWORTH M EYER,
JOHN MARTI N,
STANLEY c~· CH APMAN,
EDGAR

J. LoNG,

WM. E. BOUTON,

Committee.

Report adopted.
"' Payment authorized in official capacity other. than Past Master.
"'"' Lodge declined acceptance of payment due to limited representation.
""""' Preferred to pay own expenses and returned check.

The Grand Master then directed the Grand Secretarv to
read Sections 15 to 18 inclusive of the Constitution, in ~rder
that the Grand Lodge might proceed \vith the annual election.

706

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF TH.E

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICi::Rs
The annual election of officers was now held, with the following result ·:
The R:. w:. Frank M. Smith, of East Gate Lodge No. 290,
was elected Grand Master.
The R.". w:. Leslie E. Wood, of Provident Lodge No. WJ ,
was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. ·. W. ·. Claude .H. Morrison, of San Diego Lodge No.
35, was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The w:. Gilbert C. DeForest, of Reading Lodge No. 254,
was elected Junior Grand Warden.
V.'. w:. William P. Filmer, of King Solomon's Lodge No.
260, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
v:. w:. Lloyd E. Wilson, of Ingleside LOdge N o. 630. was
nominated by Past Grand Master Leon 0 . Whitsell, "Grand Secretary, and was elected Grand Secretary.
w:. Chester H. Warlow, of Fresno Lodge No. 247, was
elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Ma.s ter-elect caused to be read the names of the
appointive officers as follows :
Grand Chaplain, Right Reverend W . Bertrand Stevens, of
Jam es A. Garfield Lodge No. 5fi6.
Grand Orator, Lawrence C. Kelley, of ·Pentalpha Lodge No.
202.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, of San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal, James Fisk, of Charter· Rock Lodge No. 410.
Grand·· Standard Bearer, Alex D . Potts, .of Le ' Progres de
l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371.
Grand Sword Bearer, Frederick W. Morris, of University
Lodge No. 394.
Grand Bible Bearer, Edward Lee Stephens, of East Gate
Lodge No. 290.
Senior Grand Deacon, Harry E. Lindersmith, of Wilshire
Lodge No. 445. ·
Junior Grand Deacon, Jam es Hurst, of California Lodge
No. 1.
Senior Grand Steward, Charles E . Sones, of El Centro Lodge
No. 384. .
Junior Grand Steward, Glen Holmes, of Dos Palos Lodge
No. 681. .

•

...

707

Grand Pursuivant, Leslie V . Hughes, of Rising Light L odge
No. 397.
. Grand Organist, Charles E . Anderson, of Jewel Lodge No.
374.
Grand Tiler, Ralph K. Marshall, of Occidental Lodge No. 22.
The Grand Master-elect announced the appointment of Chas.
Albert Adams to be a member of the Board of Trustees o'f the
Masonic Homes of California, vice self, term .:expired.
.
The M.". w:. Dana R. Weller was appointed Master of
Ceremonies and the officers elected·and appointed w ere installed
by the retiring Grand Master in due and ancient for:m, with the
exception of the Grand Secretary, .who was instail~d. ,by the
newly-elected Grand Ma~ter.
·
··
The newly-installed Grand Master then invested his predecessor with a Past Grand Master's lapel button and also invested
him with the apron of a .Past Grand Master.
The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was then transferred from
the retiring to the incumbent Grand Master and the other c:hair
officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins. Past Grand
Master Ross, ori behalf ot G_rci.nd Lodge, pres~nted' the retirfog
Grand Master with a very beautiful silver service, and by his
order, concurred in by Grand Lodge, the Grand Master was directed to present it, with an appropriate ceremony, to Mrs. Lloyd
E . Wilson.
On·behalf of Mrs. John Whicher, Brother Arthur H .- Herndon, Senior Warden of Hillcrest L odge No. · 573~ presented to the
newly elected Grand Secretary the · laa~l in.signia 9£ the Grand
Secretary's office, which had be~n worn for so many years, and
with such distinction, by the late beloved John Whicher.
The Grand Bible Bearer, W .; . Brother Stephens, Pas't Mas.::
ter and charter member of,Eait GciJe Lqdge No, 290, and for.the
past forty-four years the Secretary of ·;that Lodge, .pr~sented
the Grand Master,. ~rank ¥ . Smith, with a gavel w hich Brother
Stephens had made at the time of the institu'tioh of East Gate
Lodge, and which in addition had been used by fifty-one Maste.rs
of that Lodge, and which had been similarly presented to two
previous Grand Masters. The Grand Master ·received the gavel
with appropriate expressions Of apprec!ation.
'·
'
At 4:00 o'clock P. M., all business' being c~inpleted, . Gq1nd
Lodge was closed.

..

'

Grand Secretary.,. , .<· • ·

•
708

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STANDING COMMITTEES
(Masters and Wardens to be Appointed after December Elections)
Jurisprudence:
Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles.
John D. Murphey, Court House, Oakland.
Francis V. Keesling. 315 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
George L. Jones, Nevada City.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco.
John Stewart Ross, 1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles.
Earl Warren, State Building, San Francisco.
Policy and General Purposes:
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
John W . Shenk, State Building, San Francisco.
Albert E. Boynton, 114 Sansome Street, San Francisco.
Will H. Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles;
Frank W. Mixter, Exeter.
Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
William B. Ogden, 448 Sou:h Hill Street, Los Angeles.
Grievances:
Frank B. Belcher, 510 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
. Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco.
Louis Drapeau, Ventura.
Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt Hank Building, ~an rranc1sco.
Dwight W. Stephenson, 906 California State Building, Los Angeles
Finance:
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Frank C. Ruppel, 411 Masonic Temple, San Franr.isco.
Raymond W . Blosser, 220 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco.
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
·
Rollie W. Miller, As~ociated Realty Building, Los Angel~s.
Credentials :
Louis Sutter, Anglo-California National Bank San Franciscu.
Ralph E. Smith, 587 Cypress Avenue, Los A~eles.
John T . Martin, 1170 Seventh Avenue, San Diego.
Stanl.e y Chapman, 508 Chapman Building, Fullerton.
Alvin W. Wendt, 2325 North Catalina Street, Los Angeles.
Charters:
1
Lee T. '. Mullen; 306 .West Third ·str.e et; Los Angeles.
Henry Eissler, Bakersfield.
·
Lewis D. Collings, Washirigton Building, Los Angeles.
Winston E. Squire, Eagle Rock.
Raymond Taylor, Bakersfield.
By-Laws:
Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse; Riverside.
Julius Gabriel, 584--California Street, San Francisco.
Chas. Listenwalter, 375 South Rimpau Boulevard, Los Angeles:
Andrew ·R. Schottky, Mariposa.
Wm. A. Sherwin, 605 North Roxford, Beverly Hills.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pay of Members :
John W. Davey,.2090 Pacific Avenue, San Francisco.
Arnold Rumwell, 185 Edgewood Drive, Palo Alto.
Lloyd C. Campbell; 4000 Whiteside Aven:ue, Los Angeles.
F. Wesley Davies, 849 San Vicente Road, Arcadia.
Charles C. Reeves, 1425 Robertson Way, Sacramento.
Accounts: (All San Franch:co)
James J. Yates, 120 Juanita Way, San Francisco.
Edwin J . Kleinhans, 224 Grant Avenue,,Sav Francisco.
Edward H. Wilkens, 643 Thirty-Eighth Avenue, San Francisco.
Dwight N. Deane, 109 Noriega Street, . San Francisco.
Leon Loewenthal, 534 Battery Street, San F rancisco.
Returns:
Henry G. Mathewson, State Building, San Francisco.
Albert F. Ross, Redding.
William W. McKee, 326 Chapala Street, Santa Barbara.
Albert C. Wollenberg, 2748 Steiner Street, San Francisco.
Kenne.h S.- Thomson, 218 Central Bank Bldg., Oakland.
Necrology:
Arthur P. Crim, Redlands.
Albert Gordon, 3700 orthland Drive, Los Angeles.
Ross Roper, 1000 Oakes Blvd., San Leandro.
Correspondence:
Henry C. Clausen, Mills Tower, San Francisco.
Oscar Olson, 3419 Montecito, Fresno.
·
Frederick 0. Eaton, 781 Laurel Street, San Jose.
Frank Hoberg, Hoberg!s, Lake County.
Leon C. Glendenning, 545 South Figueroa Street, Los Angeles.
Grand Lodge Week Activities:
Washington I. Kohnke, 686 Sacramento Street, San Francisco.
Andrew Burke, MasQnic Temple, San Francisco.
President East Bay Masters and Wardens Association.
President San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
San Francisco _Inspectors.
East Bay Inspectors.
Library:·
(Committee to be appointed later.)
Clandestine Masonry:
Warren E. Libbey, 541 South Spring, Arcade Building, Los Angeles.
John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco.
Orta A. Pratt, Calexicil.
Frank P. Roullard, Court House, Fresno. .
Fred Spring, Odd Fellows Building, Sacramento.

701)

•
710

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

John L. Compton, Bakersfield.
A. R. Clifton, Los Angeles.
Will C. Crawford, San Diego.
Percy R. Davis, Santa Monica.
Norman H. Farnham, Bakersfield.
Dr. Walter V. Goodfellow, Hollywood.
F. A. Henderson, Santa Ana.
Vierling Kersey, Los Angeles.
John A. Sexson, Pasadena.
Steadman G. Smith, Los Angeles.
Charles E. Teach, San Luis Obispo.
Jesse W. Warner, Fresno.
Walter L. Bachrodt, San Jose.
Thomas J. Henry, Roscoe.
Walter T. Helms, Richmond.
Arthur H. Chamberlain, San Francisco.
Roy W. Cloud, San Francisco.
Virgil E . Dickson, Berkeley.
Elias E. Ellison, San Francisco.
C. Burnham Heryford, Ukiah.
Charles C. Hughes, Sacramento.
William F. Ewing, Oak\and.
Wesley W. Kergan, Piedmont.
Frederick F. Martin, Chico. ·
Joseph P. Nourse, San .Francisco.
William G. Paden, Alameda.

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Financing Building Projects:
William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Herbert C. Goldman, 1229 S. Orlanda Avenue, Los Angeles.
Ritual :
Chester H. Warlow, Security First Nation,al Bank, Fresno.
Obed W. Carr, Exeter.
Arthur M. Warren, Bank of California, Mission Bran~h. San Fraiicisco.
Sidney K. Lehman, 649 S. Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Charles A. Schwartz, 1622 Ninth Street, Sacramento.
Masonic History:
Leon 0. Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Burlingame.
Mark A. Sawrie, 1900 Central Tower, San Francisco.
W. C. Arbuckle, 988 Franquette A.venue, San Jose.
W. A. Chalfant, Bishop.
Roscoe L. Qark, M. D., 822 Forum Building, Sacramento.
Charles E. Haas, Superior: Co,u rt, Los Aitgeles. .
Charles R. Ingram, Grass Valley;
· ·· ·
Wilson W. Newlon, 981 Miller Avenue, Berkeley.
Thomas Norris, Livermore.
David Tulloch, Oakdale.
Guy Giffen, 2406 Tesla Terrace, Los Angeles.
Millard W. Young, 1940 Ninth Avenue, Sacramento.
Martin C. Arthur, 730 San Benito Street, Hollister.

Social Security and Unemployment Tax:
R. P . Wisecarver, 315 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
James~- Hammond, Hunter-Dulin Building, San Francisco.
Walter Perry Johnson, 111 Sutter Street, San Francisco.

Masonic Information:
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
N. Perry Noerdyke, 311 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Delbert Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco.
Richard H. Chamberlain, 114 Manor Drive, Piedmont.
George C. Jensen, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Sacramento.
Rudolph Jenny, 5823 Patton Street, Oakland.

Lodge of Research:
,_
William Rhodes Hervey, 458' South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Leon O. Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Burlingame.
G. Ellsworth Meyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles.

Constitution Month Observance:
Robert B. Gaylord, General Chairman, 1220 Russ Bldg·., San °Francisco.
Northern Committee-Wesley W . Kergan, Chairman, 1429 Russ Building,
San Francisco.
·'
·
A. C. Wollenb.erg, Flood Building, San Franciscd.
S. F. Worswick, 1305 Hampel Street, Oakland:
A. F. Souza, Jr., 1307 East Street, Redding.
Southern Committee-Leo. E. Anderson, Chairman, 615 Richfield Building,
555 South Flower Street, Los Angeles.
Lee T. Mullen, 306 West Third Street, Los Angeles.
John ·T. Martin, 3111 Edith Lane, San. Diego.
Fred P. Roullard, Courthouse, Fresno.

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
Endowment Board:
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Edmund A. Lpckett, 522 South Raymond Street, Pasadena.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco.
Jqe E. Shell, Southern Title Building, San Diego.
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
Harry F. White, Fresno.
Louis C. Drapeau, Court House, Ventura.
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Ernest G. Bashor, 600 Edwards-Wildey Building, Los Angeles.
Rollie W. Miller, Associated Realty Building, Los Angeles.
James T. Fraser, Eureka.
Ira D. Wheeler, Box 891, Santa Monica.
Carl E. Miller, Capital National Bank, Sacramento.
Henry G. Hill, San Jose.
Donald F. Tyler, 918 Pershing Square Bldg., Los Angeles.

Public Schools Week:
Charles Albert Adams, Chairman, Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
Vaughan MacCaughey, Secretary, 155 Sansome Street, San· Francisco.
Robert A. Odell, Chairman, So. Div., 524 Van Nuys Bldg.; Los Angeles.
John B. Beman, Los Angeles.
Melvin E. Bowman, Santa Barbara.

1

711

712

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Board of Control:
Eugene S. Elkus, 301 Golden Ga:e Avenue, San Francisco.
James R. E;rskine, Box 974, Fresno.
Ben Wright, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Wm. T. Wheeling, 2828 India Street, Los Angeles.
Jack Butler, 1114 Thirty-ninth Street, Sacramento.
Trustees of Masonic Home:
Chas. M. Wollenberg, President, Laguna Honda Home, San Francisco.
James B. Gist, Vice-President, Security First National Bank, Sixth and
Spring Streets, Los Angeles.
Samuel E. Burke, 649 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
,
Chas. Albert Adams, Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco.
~and the Deputy Grand Master and SeHior and Junior Grand Wardens.

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUBHOUSES
Berkeley:
John D. Murphey, Chairman, Court House, Oakland.
Milton T. Farmer, Balboa Building, San Francisco.
Charles Albert Adams, Monadnock Building, ·san Francisco.
Albert E. Boynton, 114 Sansome Street, San Francisco.
William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
William B. Herms, 2032 Del Monte, Berkeley.
Waldo F. Postel, Kohl Building, San Francisco.
Carlisle D. Nielsen, 170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley.
Los Angeles:
Ben G. Wright, Chairman, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Elmer E. Beckman, 609 South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles.
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Thomas B. Buchanan, SIS West Seventh Street, Los Angeles.
Will H. Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles.
G. Ellsworth Meyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
Marco R. Newmark, 977 Arapahoe Street, Los Angeles.'
John Stewart Ross, ·1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles.
Clyde C. Shoemaker, 1012 W. M. Garland Bldg., Los Angeles.
Dana R. Weller, 704 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Oscar Lawler, 60S West Olympic Building, Los Angeles.
John A. Klarquist, 618 South Western Avenue, Los Angeles.
William B. Ogden, 448 South Hill Street, Los Angeles.
P. G. Madise, 40S Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles.
D. K. Bjork, 405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles.

713

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES
With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5941
"
Charter

Ami.

Issued

Fees

Fees

1 California - - - --- - - 1 San Franeisco --------- 1850
2 Western Star ....
2 Shasta -·--- - - - 1850
3 Tehama - - - - - - - - 3 Sacramento - - --- 1850
4 Benicia ·····---------· 5 Benicia ··----------- 1850
5 Tuolumne ------- - - 8 Sonora --- --- ------- 1850
6 Corinthian - - - - - 9 Marysville ______:_____ 1850
7 San Jose------- - - - 10 San Jose ----- · ____ 1850
8 Yount ___ __:.__ 12 Napa - ----·- ------- 1851
9 Nevada --------------- 13 Nevada City - --- --- 1851
10 Temple ----------- 14 Sonoma ____:, _______ 1851
11 Eureka - ---- - - - - 16 Auburn ---·-- ----- - - 1851
12 La Parfaite Unio~- 17 San Francisco --------- 1852
13 Mountain Shade_____ 18 Downieville ___.L.. 1852
14 San Joaquin ----- - - 19 Stodcton --------- 1852
15 Washington - - - - - 20 Sacramento -- ------ 1852
16 Hawaiian - - - - - - 21 Honolulu, H. T ..... 1852
17 Occidental
22 San Francisco __::_:__ _ 1852
18 Madison --------- - 23 Grass Valley ---- ---- 1853
19 Mariposa - -·------- 24 Mariposa --------- 1853
20 Georgetown ···--- - - - 25 Georgetown ---~-·-· 1853
21 El Dorado ___ _ ____ 26 Placerville ----- -------- 1853
22 Trinity ··------~ 27 Weaverville -----------·- 1853
23 Golden Gate ------~-- 30 San Francisco --- --- 1853
24 Gold Hill···------ - - - 32 Lincoln ··-- ----· 1853
25 Ophir ······----- - - - 33 Murphy's -- -- ·""'-'-- 1853
26 San Diego _____________ 35 San Diego--------------- 1853
27 Howard - --·- --- -- 37 Y relca _::__________~--- 1854
28 Santa Cruz - - - - -·- 38 Santa Cruz ·---- ------- 1854
29 Sacramento ' ---- -- - - - 40 Sacramento -----·- - 1854
30 Martinez -------- - - - 41 Martinez - --- -- 1854
31 Los Angeles - - -- - - 42 Los Angela.::.._________ 1854
32 Hiram ····43 El Dorado -'·--- ---- 1854
33 Mount Moriah - - - - - 44 San Francisco-----·-·-- 1854
34 Crescent - - - - - - - 45 Crescent City ___:__ 1854
35 Te:ras ·---------- - - 46 San Juan ··--------- 1854
36 Forbestown ---·· · - - - 50 Forbestown ----------··-· 1854
--~----------·-· 1854
37 Illinoistown ----- ··-·- 51 Colfa:r
38 Suisun __ _
55 Suisun ___ ______ _:.__ 1855

100
50
75
50
77
"50
50
60
50
40
50
100
30
80
75
80
100
53
50
30
50
50
50
50
50
80
50
80
75
75
50
75
100
50
30
30
50
50
30
75
75
30
50
50
50
50
50
80
50
50
50
50
50
30
50
50
50

20.00
6.00
10.00

Lodge

No.

Volcano --~--·--- 56
Santa Rosa ___ _____ ·_:_ 57
Union ---- ---·
58
Gravel Range _____· -~ 59
Plumas
60
Live Oak ___
61
Natoma - --- - --· -- - 64
Amador --- --- - - - 65
Forest
66
Morning Star .
68
Enterprise - - -- - - 70
Bear Mountain - - -- 76
Calaveras ------ - - 78
Humboldt ---- - -- - 79
Ione --------··- ·
80
Yolo
81
55 Vesper __
84
87
56 Naval
57 Rose's Bar --------- - --89
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54

Location

Volcano --------··- - 1855
Santa Rosa. ____ 1855
Sacramento ------·-- 1855
Camptonville ------·· 1855
Quincy --- -------·-··- 1855
Oalcland - --·-------·- 1855
Folsom - - - - - 1855
Jaclcson --- -------·-- · 1855
Alleghany -'-- - -----·- 1855
Stoclcton ------------- 1855
Yuba City - --·------·-· 1855
Angel's Camp ___ 1855
Sl!n, Andreas - - ·-- 1855
Eurelca --·- --------- 1855
Ione -----------··--··- 1856
Yolo - --···--··--- .:.____ 1856
Red Bluff - --------- 1856
Vallejo -·--'------- 1856
Smartville ·-··-- --·-·--·- 1856

Dues

1.2
9
9
12
2.00 12
9
9
12
9
2.00 12
9
15.00 12
9.
12
10.00 .9
10.00 l2
25.00 12

l:P
9

-------5.00
5.00
10.00

9
·9

9
12
1.00 9
4.00
9
12
1.00
9
1.00 12
10.00
9
12
10.00
9
20.00
9
10.00 12
6.00 9
1.00 9
9
9
12
5.00
9
5.00
9
10.00
9
9
2.50 . 9
10.00 12
. 5.00 9
5:00
9
9
12
5.00 12
J:OO 9
10.00 9
18
9
9
9
10.00
9
5.00 ' 9

Mem·
bel'I

572
106
469
134
202
261
425
268
126
103
185
130
40
549
510
337
726
211
159
62
180
101
616
91
44
512
186
325
238
222
662
51
383
133
41
56
65
121
35
390
508
46
100
901
125
70
43
422
208
67
73
309
70
52.
157
644
35

'

LIST OF .SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

l.oeatlon

Charter
Iasued

58 North Star ·········-··-- 91 Fort Jones ....... ___:. 1856
59 St. Helena ····------- 93 St. Helena ··········-- 1856
60 Henry Clay ····-·-·----- 95 Sutter Creek ............ 1856
61 Hornitoa ····-··-·------ 98 Hornitos ··············-·· 1856
62 Yosemite ·····-·---·-···- 99 Merced
1856
63 Clay ··-··101 Dutch Fi~~-::::=::::::= 1856
64 Oroville ----------103 Oroville --·--------------- 1856
65 Lexington _
104 El Monte - ·············· 1856
66 Arcata -····-.L-----106 AJ:caca •...................._ 1857
67 Pajaro -··--·-·
110 Watsonville --------- 1857
68 Chico
11 Chico ----------------- 1857
69 Summit -··--··
112 Knight's Ferry -···- 1857
70 Eden
113 San Leandro
1857
71 Concord
17 Sacramento ····---···· 1857
Fidelity
__
72
20 San Francisco ·······- 1858
73 Alamo ________ 122 Walnut Creek ____ 1858
_______
.
__
123
Sotoyome
....
Healdsburg ...:_____ 1858
74
75 Table Mountain._______124 Cherokee ··············- 1858
La
Fayette
_______
.
_126
76
1858
Sebastopol
77 Hermann.._________127 San Francisco .......... 1858
Visalia
_______
---1.28
78
Visalia ------------------- 1859
79 Nicolaus ____
129 Wheatland ····-········ 1859
80 Woodbridge.._ _ _ _ _ 13 l Woodbridge -··········· 1859
81 Sine~---132 Green ville -·············· 1859
82 Vaca· e_______ _ _ 134 Vacaville .................. 1859
Valley
____
83
35 Linden ----------------- 1860
84 Pacifu:.___
136 San Francisco ·······-- 1860
85 Croclcett
139 San Francisco ____ 1860
86 Curtis ____
1860
140 Cloverdale
87 Grafton ...
141 Knights Landing ·-- 1860
88 Franlclin----·-··
143 Courtland ········---- 1861
89 Oriental.._________ J44 San Francisco ····-···· 1861
90 Vitruvius_.____ _ _ _ _145 Bloomfield
1861
91 Abell ....· - · · · · - - ·-_146 Ukiah ··-··········-······ 1861
92 Eel River. _____________147 Fortuna -···-········-···· 1861
93 Luaen .....·-····---------149 Susanville ................ 1862
94 Molino ..- ..··-··-···-----150 Tehama ---------------- 1862
95 Woodland .....·-····--------156 Woodland ------------- 1863
96 Keystone ______________l61 Milton ------·----------- 1863
97 Harmony....________164 Sierra City .,.....·--·· 1864
98 Excelsior.......___________ 166 San Francisco ········- 1864 .
99 Alameda ... _______----167 Centerville -··-······- 1864
100 Redwood CitY
68 Redwood City ____ 1864
101 Mias ion
169 San Francisco _ _ 1864
102 Elk Gtove
173 Elk Grove ····---·- f865
103 Drytown
174 Plymouth ·-·····-··-'-: 1865
Antioch
_
_
_
_
_
l75 Antioch
104
----------H- 1865
105 Phoeniz____
178 San Bernardino........ 1866
Mendocino
__
106
179 Mendocino .............. 1866
107 Petalwna...._________ _.180 Petaluma ····-····-···- 1866
. ---181 Windsor ········-·-····· 1866
108 Russian River___
109 Arbuclcle________ l82 Arbuclcle ------------ 1867
110 Clear Lalce
183 Lower Lalce__________ 1867
111 Sierra Valley_ _ _ _ _ lM Sierraville ···-·--···- 1867
112 Claiborne ___________ l85 Point AJ:ena ····-·-·- 1867
113 Evening Star.
186 Etna Mills --------- 1867
87 Gilroy ······-··--····- 1868
114 Keith ________
115 Oalcland
188 Oalcland ·······-···--· 1868
1868
190 Millville
116 Northern Light
191 · San Rafa;r~~=== 1868
117 . Marin
118 Santa Barbara......_______192 Santa Barbara ----- H!blS

715

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

714

Feea

MemAmi.
Fees Dues hen

41
35
5.00
9
50
1.00 12 77
52
60
9
78
65 10.00 10
12 250
50
50
9 64
50
5.00 12 243
55
1.00
9 186
50
9 188
50 10.00 15 228
50 10.00 12 309
50
5.00
9 41
50
12 207
75 10.00
9 238
100
5.00 15 527
50
5.00 12 142
5.00 . 12 146
75
80
1.00 9 97
50
9 175
50 10.00 12 201
50
8.00 12 319
50
5.00
9 81
50
9 110
50
5.00 .9 82
50
12 141
50 12.00
9 61
100 20.00 12 582
75 25.00 12 573
35
5.00
9 60
30
5.00
67
9
75
5.00 18 88
100 25.00 12 401
30
1.00 9 97
50
12 156
50
9 166
60
12 155
50
1.00 12 108
50
9 241
30 10.00 12
25
15
30
5.00
9
50 20.00 12 498
50
5.00 12 124
50
1.00 18 278
100
5.00 12 673
50 10.00 9 113
30
5.00 9 27
5.00 12 136
50
55
5.00
9 461
50
5.00 9 117
80
9 263
50
1.00 9 88
50
1.00 12
73
50 10.00 9 41
50
9 32
51
50
5.00 12
50
9 44
50
1.00 15 137
1.00 . 12 755
50
79
35
5.00 9
80
12 431
75 ----·. 1) 212

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
I.odgo

No.

Charter
Issued

Location

Fees

Ami.
Fees

Mem·

Dues

hen

9 122
50
193 Ferndale -------- 1869
119 Femdale..
9 178
50
120 Mountain View. ________:____194 Mountain View ······- 1869
5.00 12 113
30
121 Buclceye-------~-195 Winters --------------- 1869
9 100
30
122 San Simeon________ l96 Cambria -----------""-- 1869
. _198 Wilmington ------------ 1869
80 -----·-- 12 288
123 Wilmington_ _ _ _ _
9 166
1869
3.00
50
124 Hartley________ l 99 Lalceport _. -----------...._______ 1869
9 100
5.00
60
125 Truclcee.._....._ _____ zoo Truckee
9 123
5.00
60
126 Silveyville ____________ 201 Dixon --------------------- 1869
50 -- . ----- · 12 533
127 Pentalpha----~ 202 Los Angeles .....c••••.•.- 1869
25
9
40
128 Confidence _________...203 Castroville ------------- 1869
9 318
75
129 Salinaa _________...204 Salinas -------------- 1869
12 87
50
05 Corning ---···---·· 1870
130 Olivet..._
9 350
50
206 Modesto ------- 1870
131 Stanislaus ___
9 235
1.00
50
132 Anaheiin _ _ _ _ _-2.07 Anaheim - - - · - - 1870
12 96
75
208 Rio Vista ------ 1870
133 Rio Via
1.00 12 301
80
134 King David'•--------209 San Luis Obispo... _ 1870
___ 210 San Jose ·····--···- 1871
9 513
50
135 Friendship
1.00 12 129
30
136 San Benito-·-"----·-··'--··211 Hollister ····--·---~---· 1871
75 10.00 l2 224
137 So. San Francisco__________ 212 San Francisco --······ 1871
16 287
50
138 San Buenaventura________ 214 Ventura ------------- 1871
1.00 12 526
75
139 Oak Grove ______ _...215 Alameda ·-··········-·- 1871
100 10.00 12 453
140 Doric.._. _________ 216 San Francisco .......... 1871
9 145
75
141 Monterey_______ ___j.17 Monterey --------------- 1871
1
50 10.00 12 135
142 Mosaic___________ .:_...218 Livermore ············-·· 1872
12 356
143 Speranza ltaliana _____...:____ 219 San Francisco .......... 1872 105
9 192
55
144 DowneY--·----------~20 Downey --------------- 1872
5.00 12 74
50
145 Inyo ________•_______221 Independence ·----- 1872
2.50 12 264
50
146 Roaeville ___________ 222 Roseville ···-------- 1912
12 437
1873 100
147 Bakersiield _________ -224 Bakersfield
12 522
50
--225 East Oakland -····-- 1873
148 Brooklyn_
18 226
50
149 San Mateo ....._________226 San Mateo ·-···---- 1873
9 119
4.50
30
150 Athen•-~------------228 Davis ----------------- 1873
9 426
50 10.00
151 Solano ·····-------229 Vallejo ---------------- 1873
12 120
50
152 North Butte.. ____________ 230 Gridley ··-···--··-····· 1873
49
9
40
153 Covelo ..____________--231 Covelo ····-·-···--·-·-- 1874
59
9
1.00
50
154 Janesville _____________ 232 Lassen ·····-··-··········· 1874
9 71
5.00
35
155 Calistoga...---..,.··----·- 233 Calistoga ····-··········- 1874
62
9
50 10.00
156 Hope-····-··---'·---~4 Beckwith --·············-· 1874
55
9
1.00
30
157 Surprise ValleY-·-·············-.235 Cedarville ····-······-- 1874
9 100
50
159 Hill's Ferry____________236 Newman··········-······ 1874
51
9
50 10.00
159 Guadalupe .._____________ _237 Guadalupe ··-·······-· 1874
50 25.00 12 147
160 Colusa .._____________-240 Colusa ·----····-··-- ·1875
1.00 12 418
75
'41 Santa Ana - - - 1876
161 Santa Ana--·
15 240
75
..242 Santa Barbara - - 1876
162 Magnolia
5.00 12 248
50
43 Hayward. - -- 1876
163 Eucalyptus
9 463
50 10.00
164 Alcattaz______--24'4 West Oakland __ 1877
5.00 12 171
50
1877
45 Willows -------165 LaureL_
_
_
_
1877
2.00 12 279
50
166 Pomona.._________246 Pomona
80
3.00
9 568
167 Fresno__________ 2'47 Fresno ·-···-··------ 1878
1.00 12 139
40
2'48 Alturas ------"----------- 1878
168 Alturlll-----·-·
15
59
70
169 Adin.·-··--·-·-------·250 Adin -·-·············--··· 1878
1.00
9 86
35
170 Landmarlc_._____ __...253 Esparto -···-·----.:. 1879
50
~.00 12 180
171 Reading _________ ___...254 Redding ··---~·-······ 1879
9 111
50
172 Welcome ________-2.55 Lemoore
_
___
,.···--····-··-- 1879
50
9 282
. ---256 Lodi
1879
173 Lodi.______
3.00
96
30
9
174 Penrhyn-..------~-258 Penrhyn ---··-·· 1880
12 463
50
175 Evergreen---·--··----~59 Riverside - ' ---··- 1880
50 15.00 12 553
176 King Solomon'•---~-.,:~60 San Francisco ___ 1880
12
79
50 .
177 Tuscan ____. _ _ _:.:. _ _261 Williams ------ 1880
9 110
1.00
50
262 Lompoc ------ 1881
'
178 Lompoc ·
1.00 12 219
50
179 Hesperian... ... _ . _ _ _264 Santa Maria ---·- 1882

__

_________

716

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE' ·

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Charter
Iasued

Location

180 Orland______-----265 Orland .:,_________ 1882
181 North EuL.____:__..._266 Fort Bidwell --·---· 1882
182 GalL·-----~67 Galt -···-------- 1883
183 DuranL_
68 Berkeley ------- 1883
184 Olive Branch______--269 Tulare ··-···-····--- 1883
185 Snow Mowitain___________ .271 Stony Ford --------- 1884
186 Pasadena....____;,____272 Pasadena ------- 1884
187 Ancbor___________...273 Compton --------- 1884
188 Arroyo____________...274 Arroyo Grande ........ 1884
189 Oakdale _____
275 Oakdale --------------- 1884
190 Selma.___________;z77 Selma --------------- 1885
191 Southern California___...278 Los AnJ'Ies ____________ 1885
192 Hanford _ _ _- - 2 7 9 Hanfor ------- 1885
193 Madera ____
280 Madera _ _ _ _ 1885
194 Mount Shasta
81 Anderson ----------- 1886
195 CallayomL____---282 Middletown ------- 1887
196 South West_____---...183 National City ----·- 1887
197 San MigueL_______----285 San MigueL_______ 1887
198 Paso Robles __________ __286 Paso RObles ..--·······- 1887
199. Winnedumah________287 Bishop --------------- 1887
200 Maxwell _________ _...288 Maxwell ________. __ 1888
201 Elsinore..;.____
289 Elsinore --------------- 1888
202 East Gate _______--290 Los Angeles ____________ 1888
Santa
Paula
..
.:.
________
291 Santa Paula ____________ 1888
203
204 Los Gatos __________..__.292 Los Gatos_:_ ------------ 1888
205 Orange Grove __________293 Orange
1889
__.._.,.__
206 Traver_.-. _______ _294 Kingsburg
1889
207 Mt. Jackson__
. . 295 Guerneville ___ _.__ 1889
208 Silver Gate- - - - 296 San Diego _ _ _ 1889
209 Dunsmuir _ __ __ ._ _ 297 Dunsmuir ·-.- - - - 1889
210 Liberty ______
299 Santa Clara._____.:..:.r... 1890
211 Redlands .._____. _...JOO Redlands _.,_,,_~ ___...:..:.... 1.890
212 Ontario ________ ___.301 Ontario -·-------------- · 1890
213 Santa Lucia..________302 Kings' City ---------- 1890
214 Porterville_________..:,_..J03 Porterville -------------- 1890
215 Reedley___________----304 Reedley --------------- 1891
216 Azusa _ _____
305 Azusa _. ________.._____ 1891
217 Ashlar _____________:......306 Colton -------------·--- 1891
218 Santa Monica_______ __-307 Santa Monica ---------- 1891
219 Monrovia __________ ___.308 Monrovia ----------- 1891
;:_[.;,_
220 Delano___________ -309 Delano
1892 .
221 Sisson __________ _J 10 Mount Shasta ------ 1892
222 Los Banos _ ___--312 Los 8anos - - - - - 189i
223 Tehachapi_ __. __ ____Jl3 Tehachapi --·------ 1892
224 TemeacaL__
314 Corona --'----- 1893
225 NorwalJr: ______ ~--315 Norwalk ------------· 1893
226 Sanger____________ _:_ _ _J 16 Sanger -· ~.1L~--~ 1893
227 Fallbrook ..________________ 317 Fallbrook ------------ 1893
228 Emmanuel ......---------'--318 Biggs ----~··-----~ 1893
229 Hollenbeck.. __________________ J 19 Los Angeles ------'-·"·· 1894
230 South Gate...-~...'.__, _____ 320 · Los Angeles ·---------·-: 1894
231 AlisaL____________ __,321 Pleasanton ---.,------ 1894
232 Alhambra ________________.J22 Alhambra -------------- 1894
233 Whittier _·-------~----323 Whittier ------------ 1895
234 Corona ______
324 Pasadena -------------- 1895
235 Consuelo..________ __325 Escondido -------- 1895
236 Needles __________ _ _ 326 Needles ---·------'--- 1896
237 Long Beach _ _ _.____327 Long Beach ------ 1896
238 Redondo _______- _..328 Redondo ---------- 1897
• _--329 Los Angeles ----·-- 1897
239 Vallee de France __
. -~---·--330 Hilo, H. T ·-----~--- 1897
240 Kilauea ________

_

____
___

_____

Fees

AML

· Feea

717

MemDues ben

50
2.00 9 106
30
5.00
51
9
30
9 63
80
5.00
9 545
50
18 191
1.00
30
9
40
12 433
70
12 259
80
6.00 12 79
35
1.00
50
9 116
50 12.00
9 142
50 15.00 12 481
12 144
50
3.00 12 164
50
30
12 56
30
5.00 9
52
50
1.00 9 172
30 10.00 12
45
50
3.00
9 118
50 ..:. :....___ 20 108
30 !.---..- 12
49
40
12 105
50 10.00
9 723
50
15 256
12 207
50
50
1.00 12 191
50
JO 100
30
12 112
80
12 561
50
12 193
50
9 220
75
9 332
50
9 206
40
24
91
50
9 305
50
9 127
50
12 150
55
9 163
80
12 241
12~ 205
50 .
50 ·. ; .._.__
9 161
50
2.00 9
67
75
12 108
75
1.00 9 148
50
2.00 12 13'2
50
9 117
50
12 179
30
5.00
9 53
50
5.00 . 9 71
50 10.00
9 1054
50
9 599
50
9 102
50
9 384
50
9 448
70
8.00 12 446
50
9 153,
1.00 12 216
75
80
9 485
60
12 201
50 12.00 12 lli
50
12 182

Lodge

No.
Pacific Grove _____ __Jn

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

MemAllll•.
Fe ea Dues ben

241
Pacific Grove ....- ...... 1897
9 156
35
242 San Pedro
32 San Pedro --------- 1897
80 25.00 12 425
243 Alta....------~33 Bridgeport ----------- 1897
62
5.00
9
53
244 Covina--------334 Covina ----------------- 1898
9 192
50
245 West Gate-------~-335 Los Angeles ______, ______ 1899
15 763
50
246 -Fruitvale_______________'-_J36 Oakland ------------- 1899
50 10.00 12 749
247 Carquinez______________337 Crockett --------------- 1899
9 147
50 -------248 San Jacint9.:.________...J38 San Jacinto .............. 1899
76
9
50
249 Fullerton_____________:__ 339 Fullerton ------------- 1900
12 328
50
Omard
___
250
~41
1.00 12 221
30
Oxnard ----------- 1901
__343 San Fernando _______ 1902
251 San Fernando
9 246
50
King
_
_
_____
_J44
252 Starr
San Francisca ----- 1902 100 10.00 12 511
253 Brentwood
1902
--345 Brentwood
12 76
30
254 Palo Alto.
346 Palo Alto ~- 1902
9 451
54
4.50
McKinley
_______
-347
Richmond
____
1902 .75
255
9 299
San
Bemardino
_________
348
San
Bernardino
__
256
1902
5.00
9 504
55
257 Sequoia __________:____....J49 Oakland ------------- 1902
50
1.00 12 857
Palestine
______
:_
_____
__J
51
Los
Angeles
___________
1903
258
50 10.00 12 484
259 Swiset...... ------~-----------......3 52 Los Angeles------------- 1903
15 369
50
Pinole
___________________
353
Pinole ------------------ 1903
260
50 25.00 12 125
Presidio
_________
-J54
San Francisco -------- 1903 100 20.00 12 495
261
1903
262 Hollywood ..________....::____355 Hollywood
1.00 12 717
50
263 Mill ValleY----~56 Mill Valley---------- 1903
15 299
80
Buena Park________ _J57 Buena Park ----------- 1903
I 264
9 121
30
265 Golden State ______ _.358 Los Angeles ..--------- 1904
50
9 782
Loyalton
_______
..:._..:_3~9
Loyalton ---------- 1904
266
9
71
50
Francisco
______________
.J60
San Francisco .......... 1904 100
267 San
12 334
Fort
Bragg
_______
1904
61
268 Fort Bragg __._
93
5.00
9
50
--362 Campbell ____ · 1904
269 Charity.:.
9 109
75
270 Berkeley_
63 Berkeley ---- 1904
5.00 12 484
.50
271 Willits_ ._________.J65 Willits ----------- 1905
9 126
1.00
50
9 626
5.00
272 Las Palmas ______________.J66 Fresno --------------- 1905
80
12 459
273 South Pasadena __________...J67 South Pasadena ........ 1905
70
12 354
274 Unity ___________________.J68 Glendale -------------- 1905
50
12 309
275 Ocean Park..__________________.J69 Ocean Park ---------- 1905
80
5.00 12 451
276 Am.ity_________________ _J70 San Francisco --------- 1905
50
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie....371 Honolulu, H. T, _____ 1905
80 10.00 12 364
278 Gardena ________________ 372 Gardena ---------------- 1906
5.00 9 150
55
3.00 12 196
279 West Los Angelea---373 West Los Angeles .... 1906
80
50 25.00 12 128
280 kewd ......--.------~-------374 San Francisco ----- 1906
ichmond..._______________375 San Francisco ------ 1906
50 10.00 12 543
281
5.00 12 189
75
282 Francis Drake ________.376 So. San Francisco _ 1906
9
77
30
283 Artesia ___________-377 Artesia ----------- 1906
50 15.00 12 338
284 Mizpah _______ _:__J78 Los Angeles.________ 1906
1.00 15 152
50
285 Fillmore_______---379 Fillmore -------- 1906
9 243
50
286 Hwitington Beach _______ 380 Huntington Beach .. _ 1906
9 116
50
287 Oceanside _______________________.3 81 Oceanside --------- 1906
12 415
75
288 Highland Park.______________,382 Los Angeles __________ 1907
81
15
50
289 OrosL.__________ ___383 Orosi ------------------ 1907
12 285
75
290 El Centto _____________-384 El Centro ....--------·--- 1907
9 170
50
291 Dinuba--------------~----..385 Dinuba ----------------- 1907
12 251
292 Coalinga _________________ _387 Coalinga -------------- 1907 100
293 Parnassus ________________ _J88 San Francisco ----~-- 1907 100 10.00 12 621
75
9 522
294 Palos Verdes .."---------·----389 Long Beach ---------- 1907
68
50 10.00 12
295 ImperiaL________________..390 Imperial --------------- 1908
63
9
50
5.00
296 East Belt...... ---~.~---391 Tuolumne----------···· 1908
50 50.00
9 !i39
297 West Lake _____ ~..:--392 Los Angeles .. _. _______ 1908
50 20.00 12 '156
298 Balder____ _ _ _ _.393 San Francisco -----· 1908
12 476
50
299 Univeraicy____ ;___,___394 Los Angele•-----,--- 1908
1908
15 182
80
300 TurlocJc ________· ____ 395 Turlock
___ 396 Alameda ---------- 1908
1.00 12 352
75
301 Apollo
----~--

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

718

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361

No.

Rising LighL -- --"---397
Fraternity_____ ______..J99
Burlingame.._______400
Bay View .·---------------------~40 l
Brawley____________402
Yerba Buena_______________403
Glendora
404
Moneta _________________-405
BurbanJc_________________406
La Mesa·---------------~407
Sierra Madre__________ _______.408
Honolulu .. _________ _ 409
410
Charter Rocle_
Perris _
411
412
Calezico
Waw:oba
413
Arlington---------~ 414
TroweL
__
__
.
__
415
Silver
LindsaY----~---416
Clovu ·--------·--·------------417

Elysian ·-------- ------'-----418
Upland .....__________________,4 19
Kerman._____________
• ____420
InglewoocL. ____________421
Eagle R11ck __,________.422
Y orfc _______________________423
Exeter ··------------------424
Holtville _______________ .425
M idway .. _____..:____ _:_ ______426
Chino ValleY----~------4 27
San D imas .________________ 428

--------------!......

Pittsburg
429
McCloud __________________________430
Alpha ---·-----'-------- ·'--- --·-431
Hammonton --------------------·-433
Maricopa.________________________434
Fairmount ·-----------·--··--43 5
Claremont __________________________436
Lancaacer __________, __________437
Acaci•-----·--- - - - - ·438
T yrian ________ ~ _ __ _439
Standard .. ______ ,________________440
Coronado -------- ---- ---- .441
Blackmer. ____________442
Schofield . _________ 443
Carpinteria .. ______________444
Wilshire ·---------------- ----- - 445
La Puente ·----~-----------·--- 446
Torrance .___....,._______····---- 447
Mt. Diablo....'.•.:______________448
Park ____________, _____ ..;._~...: ____449
Van Nuys .______________________:__4 50
Montebello ___________'.__ 451
San PasquaL________452
Bethlehem _______________ 453
Crocker.-'----- - - - 4 5 4
455
Golden West
457
RamQlla ..
H enry S. Orine __ _ _458
Riverbank : . ~....:. ______
_ 459

Charter
Issued

Location

Huntington Parle. .. 1908
San Jose ··---------------- 1908
Burlingame ---------- 1908
Oakland
1909
Brawley -~:::=::~~=::::: 1909
Oakland --------------- 1909
Glendora _____ _,___ 1909
Los Angeles ----------- 1909
Burbank ---------------- 1909
La Mesa ------·--------- 1910
Sierra Madre -------- 1910
1910
Honolulu
Berkeley _. __________ 1910
Perris -------------- 1910
Calexico ---------- 1910
Big Pine --------- 1910
Los Angeles ._________ 1910
Los. Angeles ---------- --- 1910
Lindsay --·-·-------------- 1910
Clovis .. __. __ _.. __________,. ___ 1910
Los Angeles -----------· 1910
Upland ----·---------·--- 1911
Kerman --------------- 1911
Inglewood -------------- 1911
Eagle Rock :__________ 1911
Los Angeles ------------ 1912
Exeter ·----------- . ---- 1912
Holtville ------------- 1912
Taft ------------------- 1912
191 2
Chino
San Di~~~~====:: 1912
Pittsburg ----------------- 1912
McC!oud -------·------- 1912
Richmond ------------·-·· 1912
Hammonton --------- 1913
Maricopa
1913
San Francisco ---------- 1913
Claremont
1913
Lancaster --------------- 1913
Los Angeles ------------- 1913
Manteca ------------------ 1913
Oakland ------------------ 1914
Coronado --------------- 1914
San D iego --------·------ 1914
Srhofield Barracks,
H.T. -----------·-- 1914
Carpinteria
1914
Los Angeles
1914
Puente ··------·-------··---- 1914
Torrance --------·------- 1914
Concord
1914
San Francis~~-:::::=::: 1914
Van Nuys -------------- 1914
Montebello -------------- 1914
Pasadena ~---------------- 1914
San Francisco ---------· 1915
Daly C ity • ·-·--·-----·-- 1915
San Francisco
1915
Monterey ParC::::: 1915
Los Angeles ·--------···-- 1915
Riverbanlc ·-·--------- 1915
~----.--

------------

~---------

Fees

A!lll.

Fees

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Dues

Mem-

540
368
388
307
119
439
91
617
281
139
80
222
362
75
129
42
298
298
145
242
411
134
51
297
253
178
150
87
337
55
104
14\1
102
383
65
150
477
93
115
61
91
295
175
50,3

80
5.00
50
75
50
1.00
50
80
75 10.00
50
50 1 3;()0
70 . . :.... : .
50
50
.;;.oo
. 50 10.00.
50
75
30

198
76
508
67
198
153
408
.264
234
336
.292
288
445
205
511

--..!--

9
9

12
10
15
12
12
9

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

Lodge

her&

50
12
50
9
18
50
50
5.00 12
15
75
80 25.00 12
12
60
12
50
12
50
50
3.00 12
12
50
80 10.00 12
50
5.00 12
30
3.00
9
50
5.00 12
30
9
50
9
75
5.00 12
12
50
50
9
50
10
50
3.00
9
80
9
80
3.00 . 12
50
12
50 25.00
9
50
10
75
9
50
12
50
9
35
12
75 --i~oo 12
50
9
75
9
50
9
50 20.00
9
50
12
50
9
60
6.00 12
50 10.00 12
50
12
50
12
50
9
80
9

_

719

&O

'

362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403
404

405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422

No.

Location

Charter
Isaued

Tracy ----- -- ------ 1916
San ·Francisco ----·-·· 1916
San Francisco --------- 1916
Morgan Hill --------- 1916
San Francisco --------- 1916
Fresno ----------·------·---- 1916
Bakersfield ------------- 1917
Culver City ------------ 1917
Oakland -------------- 1917
Yorba Linda--- - -------469 Yorba Linda ---------- 1918
Lincoln ____ ._ ___._470 San Francisco -------- 1918
471 Stockton ------------ 1918
Delta472 Kahului, H. T. ~----- 1918
Maui
Blythe __
473 Blythe ---------- 1919
474 San Francisco - - - 1919
Victory_
·
American _ _ _ __ _475 Los Angeles .._. ______ 1920
476 Coachella ---------- 1920
Coachella
477 Fellows ------------------ 1920
Temblor_
Thousand Oah __ _ _478 Berkeley --------------- 1920
Golden Rule_
· _ _ _ _479 San Jose ____________:.... 1920
Fellowship _____...:.__ _480 Oakland --------------- 1920
Mt. Davidson-________ _ 481 San Francisco ---------- 1920
Clarence F. Smith____482 Los Angeles ---··------ 1920
Bell.._________________483 Beli
-------------------------- 1920
Albert Pike_,____ _ _ 484 Los Angeles ·------------- 1920
Chowchilla ... ____ _ _ 485 Chowchilla -------------- 1920
Caledonia._________ _ 486 Bakersfield ---------·- 1920
Vallejo _ _ _ _ _487 Vallejo ------------- 1920
Patterson ~-------488 Patterson ··--·-··-·---·--- 1920
489 South Berkeley ····--· 1920
East Bay____
Corcoran ___________490 Corcorafi --------··-----· 1920
Woodstock___ . ________ 491 Alameda ----------- 1920
Garvanza _________ ___.492 Los Angeles -----·--·---- 1920
Atascadero____•_________493 Atascadero
1920
Acom .......... _:_ _________ _ 494 Oakland -----------------· 1920
Lebanon------- -------'----·495 San Francisco ··--·-·- 192 l
Riverdale. _______, ______ _496 Riverdale ·------------- 1921
Fremont .......'.•.:.'.______ ______497 Oakland __ ., ____,. ______. 1921
'Stockton _____ ,_____________ 498 Stockton
------------------ 1921
Capital City:::.~ _ _ ___ 499: · Sacramento -------- 1~21
Roosevelt .. __ ,__________ 500 San Francisco -------- 1921
WestWood .... ~---------'01 Westwood ·-·---------- 1921
Harbor __-'-02 Richmond -----------· 1921
03 Richmond ·------,--- 1921
Point ...
Seaside - -~---'.-'---~ 04 Long Beach ------·- 1921
1921
Silver Cord.:_ __ _ _ 505 Santa Ana
Mount Olive ... __________ _ 506 Los Angeles ..... '. ....... 1921
El Segundo.. _________507 El Segundo ----------· 1921
Joppa ·--,------'-·------ - ---508 San Joaquin ......, ...... 1921
Benjamin Franldin ________ .509 Los Angeles _______ _:__ 1921
Cupertino ....C:.::__ ___
• _ _ 510 Cupertino -------------- 1921
Sunnyvale.. ___,_;;___ _:_ ___511 Sunnyvale ------------·- 1921
Palms ---·-----·-~..:.....--5 1 2 Palms :. -··-···-···--- 1921
Cahuenga .....- ---------· 513 Lc!s Angeles --···----·• 1921
Argonne ____.L,.____:__;. ___ 51 4 San Francisco ------- 1922
Vernon Square ......- :....:... 515 Los .Angeles ··--·--·-·· 1922
Taft ,).. _____ _:;. _____ -'_;'~---- 516 Taft:
·-----------. 1922
Mount Verrion ______..:,______ 517 ,San Francisco ·-------- 1922
La l olla,._____ ,~.:___.:...:...:.:.....,5 18 La Joll;i ·----------- 1922
Euc 'd · ·---J~.;.:...:_ __:_.__ 519 . Los Angeles -·----------· 1922
' '· .:.._520 Los Angeles ........_____ 1922
Ionic..

:460
Mount 0.0
Argonaut..___ ______461
Revere
_____
_______
462
Paul
Morgan Hi!L_______463
Alta Vista _ _ _ _ _464
Center _____________465
Libertas.__________ _ _466
Culver City_ _ __ 467
Rockridge __________ ____468

--------··---

_

·-~- -

Fee•

Ami.
Fees

6.00
80
80 10.00
l.00
50
l.00
50
75
80
100
75
5.00
50
50
100 10.00
80
50
5.00
50
65 15 .00
7 5 25 .00
75
50
7 5 . 5.00
50
l.00
50
75
50
50
50
l.00
50
75
2.50
50
2.00
50
50 10.00
75
50 . l.00
50
5.00
50
80 10.00
100 10.00
55 - 2.50
l.00
50
80
75 10.00
5.00
75
35
75
75
80
50
l.00
7 5 10.00
50
5.00
50
50
50
50
50
50
5.00
100 . 5.00
50
50
80 10.00
60 25.00
50
50
1.00

MemDues

hen

12
12
12

199
345
441

9

97

12

12
12
12

270
338
253
185
353
84
256
298
130
49
193
354
85
116
310
367
196
280
250
218
197
74
204
230
63
254
72
172
159'
61
354
309
59
306
122
203
137
199
164
92
290
291
61'0
168
54
208
80
112
180
299
329
347
173
202
118

9

247

.12

303

9

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9

12
12
9

15
13
9

12
18
9
12
12
12
12
9

12
12
12
12
10
9

12
12
12
12
12

9
12
9
9
9

10
12
9
9
9

12

9
9
9
9

12
9

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

720

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGE.>-Continued
Charter
No.
Location ·
Issued
423 Piedmont..._ _ _ ___.521 Piedmont
1922
Sunrise
_______
--522
424
Los Angeles ...·----'- 1922
425 Bellflower....------523 Bellflower ·-·----- 1922
426 Catalina Island---------524 Avalon ---.------------ 1922
427 George Washington____525 San Francisco ----- 1922
428 Bay Ciey....-------'-526 San Francisco -------- 1922
429 Covenant...____________527 Los A~geles __________ 1922
430 Beverly Hi1Js _______ 528 Bever! y Hills_________ 1922
431 Loyaley_________529 Los Angeles .. -·----·-·--- 1922
432 Sun Garden______530 Fresno -···--·------···- 1922
433 Alezandria.--~----531 San Francisco ---·· 1922
32 Ceres -------~--- 1922
434 Smyrna__
__ 533 Fullerton-~ 1922
435 Azure
436 Forest Hi1L_ _ _ _ 534 San Francisco-· 1922
437 Alexander Hamilto!L.--.53 5 Los Angeles ____ 1922
536 San Francisco -···- 1922
438 Seal Rock
. -·
537 Los Angeles _________ 1922
439 Utopia _ _
538 Los Angeles ____________ 1922
440 AM:ot ____
441 Belvedere _____
539 Belvedere ------------- 1922
442 Queen Beach_______ 540 Long Beach --------- 1923
443 Henry Morse Stephens __.541 Berkeley ·---··--------- 1923
444 Lankerahim __________ 542 North Hollywood ..... 1923
445 SignaL_____________ 543 Long Beach ------ 1923
544 Glendale --------------- 1923
446 Glendale _______
447 Jonathan____________ 545 San Francisco ---------- 1923
San
GabrieL
_________
546 San Gabriel ....--------- 1923
448
449 Arcadia._________________547 Arcadia ---··----·-- 1923
450 Triangle ____________543 Venice ----···---··---- 1923
451 Justice ·---------------------··· 549 San Francisco --·- 1923
. ---550 San Francisco -····--- 1923
452 Seaport____________
453 Lakeshore ..________________ 551 Oakland ------------ 1923
454 Semper Virens---'-·----552 Eureka ---------------- 1923
455 Educator _______________554 San Francisco ---- 1923
456 White Pine _____________-555 Weed ···--------------.1923
457 Fairfax _____________--556 Fairfax --------------- 1923
57 Hermosa Beach......., 1923
458 Hermosa_____
459 Point Firmin___________---558 San Pedro -----·-----. 1923
460 Craftsman._____________ _559 Los Angeles __________ 1923
461 Plymouth._______________ _560 Oakland --------------- 1923
462 East San Diego ________________.561 East San Diego........ 1923
463 Pyramid. _____________--562 San Francisco -------- 1923
464 South Park _______---563 Los Angeles_______ 1923
64 Oakland --------- 1923
465 Foothill_ ___
466 • West Adams______ ---5~5 Los Ange_lea _______ · 1923
467 James A. Gar6.eld _______566 Los Angele•-···-·--: 1923
468 ' Searchlight ________--567 Long Beach ________;____ 1923
469 Park Boulevard ____________568 Oakland -------- 1923
470 Chateau Thierry________-569 Oakland -------------- 1923
471 Military Service _______________570 San Francisco ---------- 1923
472 Funds K. Shatµick ___________ 571 Berkeley ------------ 1923
473 James Madison___________....-572 Los Angele&...•----··- 1923
474 Hillcrest ___________________,:_______.573 Berkeley --------------- 1923
475 S. W. HacketL__________--574 San Diego ----------··-· 1923
476 Fort Crook ..----·-······----....575 Fall River Mills ________ 1923
477 El Cajon Valley_________-576 El Cajon ··-•----····- 1923
478 Sunnyside.________________..577 Los Angele• -----'~--- 1923
479 Progressive ______---578 Los Angeles ___________ 1923
480 Warren G . Harding ___579 North Sacramento.- 1924
481 Santa Maria __________ __-580 Ramona ------ · 1924
_____581 Bakersfield
1924
482 Seairity ____
483 Rialta----·-----··---··-----'-'----·582 Rialto -~----- 1924
Lodge

-----

_:_~

- ·-

Mem·
Ami.
Fees Fees Dues bera
80 .5.00 12 216
, 10 191
50
9 169
55
100. ' ---~-- 12 101
50 10.00 12 269
100 10.00 12 208
50
9 253
100 10.00 12 233
75
9 239
80
9 363
50
5.00 12 117
_____.., 9 54
70
12 175
50
55 10.00 12 <)6
50
1.00 12 134
5o 10.00 12 129
50 -------9 468
50
9 214
50
9 194
9 113
80 '
55
5.00
9 279
5.00
75
9 267
50
12 260
50
12 317
50
5.00 12 152
50
12 138
50
12 122
50
15 109
75 10.00 12 154
75 25.00 12 159
50
5.00 12 176
50
12 138
5.00 12 249
80
55
2.00
78
9
80
12 112
60
12 116
80
12 252
50
9 217
50
1.00 12 191
60
294
~o
1.00 12 189
9 • 300
50 25.00
5.00 12 245
80
12 202
50
100 30.00 12 142
60
9 304
50
12 222
50
1.00
202
100 10.00 12 249
75
5.00
9 170
50
12 157
75
56
12
80
9 188
50
1.00 12
81
50
12
59
50
12 244
75 15 .00
9 282
75
9 172
30
12
48
100
12 207
55
85
9
'\

.,

721

LIST OF Sl,JBORDINATE LODGE.>-continued
Lodge

No.

Charter
Issued

Location

484 Wasco-...~----~83 Wasco ----··--···-·---- 1924
Harding __________ ___,84 Los Angeles _____________

485
486

Manchester ___________________.585

1924
Los Angeles ______________ 1924

487 Garden Grove ____________________ 586 Garden Grove __________ 1924
488 Valley Forge_·---·-·-··--·-,---·--·587 Los Angeles _____________ 1924
489
490
491

EI Sereno _____________588
Kauai. __________________________ 589

Los Angeles ----·-----·-- 1924
Lihue, T. H •.......____ 1924
Compass·-·--·- - · - -----'90 Pomona ----····----··-- 1924
492 Escalon _____________ __,91 Escalon ------------------- 1924
493 Tujunga.________________ 592 Tujunga ------··---··--- 1924
494 All States _______________________593 Long Beach -··--------- 1924
495 Service:____ _ _ _ _ _594 Long Beach -··----- 1924
496 Alexander Graham BelL ... 595 Los Angeles ____________ 1924
497 Guardian.__________596 South Gate ---·---- 1924
498 Pearl Harbor_____________ 598 Honolulu, T. H. _____ 1924
499 Carmelita _______________-599 Pasadena ---·--·------ 1924
500 Lynwood.________________________600 Lynwood ---------------- 1924
501 Grizzly____________________.601 Portola ----------------- 1925
502 Melrose.____________________________602 Los Angeles·--------·--·· 1925
503 Dimond-----·-·--··--··-·--·-------603 Oakland ------------------ 1925
504 Jubilee ----··-·-·--··-·----.-----------604 Santa Ana
1925
505 Glassel! Park .._____________________605 Los Angeles·.--·--------· 1925
506 Sojourner ____ ··-··---·-·--··----.607 Monrovia -------··-------- 1925
507 Granada --·--·--···-·--··----------608 Alhambra
1925
508 Provident__________609 Sacramento ···--·--··-·· 1925
509 Elmhurst
610 Oakland --------------- 1925
510 Canoga
611 Canoga Park __________ 1925
511 Temple City
612 Temple --------- 1925
512 Three Piilars ____________________ .613 Sacramento --------- 1925
513 Lar~hmont __-'-_____ _ _614 Los Angeles ___________ 1925
514 Hemet.______________615 Hemet -------------- 1925
515 R. E. Dolley ______________________616 Seal Beach
1925
516 Big Bear _________•_________________ , 617 Big Bear Lake _________ 1925
517 Southland ________________________618 Los Angeles.·----------·· 1925
518 Neptune ·---·--·--··------------------~19 Long Beach _____________ 1925
519 Point Loma ---·-··-····------------620 San Diego -··-··--·-···-- 1925
520 The Gardens. ______________________621 Los Angeles ______________ 1925
521 Atwater ___________________________622 Los Angeles ·----···----- 1925
522 Menorah·---···--·--··-·---·-·-----··623 Los Angeles ______________ 1925
523 Fortitude.____________________624 Oakland ----------------- 1925
524 Angeles Mesa ··-·----··--··-·--··625 Los Angeles ____________ 1925
525 Chula Vista·----·······-----626 Chula Vista -·-·---·- 1925
526 Lamanda Park._ ________, _____627 Pasadena --------- 1925
527 Truth. ___________________628 Los Angeles --------- 1924
528 Fairview_____________629 Inglewood ~----- 1926
529 Ingleside ·--------------------·-'-630 San Francisco ------ 1926
530 Benevolence _______________________63 I Los Angeles. _____________ 1926
531 Normal Heights ________________,632 San Diego -····--------- 1926
532 Poinsettia -·-··--···----------------.633 San Buenaventura ·--· 1926
533 Victorville ----··--·---·-·---·-·------.6 J4 Victorville ·-·----·-··---- 1926
534 Riverside __ ·--- ----·-·------ ------- 63 5 Riverside ------·--·------ 1926
535 John Marshall ____________________636 Los Angeles ----·--··---- 1926
536 Palisades ·•"----·----l.--------------637 Santa Monica __________ 1926
537 Indian Rock·-·-·------····-··-·--· 638 Berkeley ----------------- 1926
538 Composite -·--·-------···-------639' Los Angeles·-------···- 1926
539 Veritas ------··--·--····--··---640 San Francisco -··--·- 1926
540 James A. Foshay ________________641 Los Angeles ________ 1926
541 La Cumbre _~---------642 Santa Barbara ------ 1926
542 Alta L.oma. __________.643 Signal Hill ------------ 1926
543 Lomita --------------644 Lomita ---------- 1926
544 A. F. E. Irwin ___________________645 San Pedro ·-·--·----- 1926

-------------

Fees
80
75
55
50
50
50
75
70
50
50
50
50
50
50
80
70
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
75
80
50
50
75
50
30
45
50
75
75
-75
50
50
75
50
50
50
50
75
50
75
75
60
50
55
50
50
80
50
75
75
105
75
75
60
80

llfemFees Dues bera
12 143
5.00 12 149
20.00 12 211
25.00
9
89
12.50
9 203
12 181
10.00 12
96
2.00 12 131
12
76
9 135
9 273
9 305
5.00 12 171
12 260
15.00 12 226
12 185
12 129
10.00
95 .
9
10.00 12 123
1.00 12 182
1.00 12 164
9 229
12
78
10 297
10.00
9 165
1.00 12 129
1.00
9 111
12 116
10.00
9 191
15.00 18 202
9
90
12
77
12
51
5.00 12 175
9 117
9 113
9 199
12.00
9 170
12 342
5.00 12 129
10 318
1.00 10 105
12 106
1.00 12 164
3.00 12 104
12
96
17. 194
12 182
12 310
12
82
10 167
5.00
9
96
12 197
5.00 12 120
10.00 ' 12 148
15.00 12
85
12 103
12
91
15 230
9
94
5.00 12 · 163
Ami.

0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

722

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

545 Metropolitan ·----------------------646 Los Angeles ......,------- 1926
546 Hawthorne _____________________647 Hawthorne ------------- 1926
Bernardino ____ 1926
547 Damascus ___________648 San
548 Florence ________________________ 649 Los Angeles ------------- 1927
549 La Brea --------------------------65Q Los Angeles ------------- 1927
550 Menlo Park .____________________ .651 Menlo Park ----------- 1927
551 Crescenta Vailey_____,______ _652 Montrose ------------- 1927
653 Fontana ------- 1927
552 Fontana ·----1927
654 Los Angeles·----------553 Jordan--------Beach ______________ 1927
554 Monte Vista _____,____________...655 Long
555 Citro[ ----------------._ _656 Brea ·-------------------- 1927
556 John D. Spreckels..___________ _657 San Diego -------------- 1927
557 Livingston ________________.Jj58 Livingston ---------- 1927
558 La Habra ·------------------------659 La Habra ----------------- 1927
559 Baldwin Park _________________ -660 Baldwin Park ---------- 1927
560 Malta ___________.,___ _:._---661 Los Angeles ------------- 1928
561 Henry Knox .------------------662 Los Angeles -------------- 1928
562 Ojai ___-------------663 Ojai ------------- 1928
563 Kaweah _______________----665 Woodlake -------------- 1928
564 Reseda ___________________ ___.666 Reseda -------------------- 1928
565 Meridian -------------------------667 Glendale -~---------------- 1928
566 San Gorgonio.:____________668 Banning --------------- 1928
567 John P. Jarman----------¥i9 San Jose __· ------- 1928
568 Greenleaf _________________________ 670 Whittier --------------- 1928
569 San Clemente -------------------671 San Clemente -------- 1928
570 Laguna Beach ·-------------------·672 Laguna Beach ---------- 1929
571 Far West ------~--------------673 San Francisco ---------- 1929
572 Los Cerritos __________.674 Long Beach ------------ 1929
1929
573 Modesto -------------·____ 675 Modesto
574 Willow Glen --------------------676 Willow Glen ----------- 1930
575 Liberal Arts --~-~-----------677 Los Angeles ------------- 1930
576 Altadena ··-------------------- 678 Pasadena ------- ------- 1930
577 Canbys Cross _________679 Tulelake ---------------- 1935
5711 Carmel --------·-----------------·680 Carmel ----------------- 1935
579 Dos Palos ---------------------·681 Dos Palos ....--.------- 1939
682 Barstow ---------------- 1940
580 Barstow
581 Redwood Empire ----------- 683 Garberville ·------'":'""·--- 1940
582 Trona -----------------·684 'J:rona ----- -------- 1941
Total Membership August 1,

1941 __________:________

Ami.

Fees

Fees

50
3.00
80
5.00
55
4.50
50
50 10.00
50
55
55 10.00
50
50
1.00
50
80
50
50
50
50
75 12.00
45
75
75
50
1.00
50
5.00
50
55
75
1.00
50
75 10.00
105 10.00
50
50
50
70
1.00
50
3.00
75
50
80 10.00
1.00
50
75

Dues

Memhers

12 77
66
9
9 217
9 204
9 190
80
12
9 121
81
9
9 138
12 257
12 118
12 306
62
15
76
12
61
12
9 109
9 246
53
15
10 63
9 84
12 173
12
90
9 116
9 202
9 30
71
12
12 151
12 114
9 170
9 105
90
12
12 184
9 60
59
9
42
12
9
56
21
9
9 35

--------·------------ 125,843

723

EXTINCT LODGES
4
4
6
7

7
9
11
15

26
28
29
31
34
36
39
47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
67
69
69
71
72
73
74

n

77
82
83
85
85
86
88
88
90
92
93
94
96
97

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings. ·
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No. 9,
·
Dec. 1874.
Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov., 1851.
La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov.,
1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929,
.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt. Jefferson
No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13,
1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
;
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854, Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov., 1864.
Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept; 15, 1919.
_
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, May 2,
1855.
Corinthian, Marysville, ~85,, Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian
No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with lone No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Chartn surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. D!tpensation granted 1857. Charttr never issued.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mountain Forest, Eureka Ne !th, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. 1:onsolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma
No. 180, Dec., 1898.
Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17. 1874.
·
St. Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
Saint Louis,, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, Nov.,
1882.
Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May S, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Ne'Vada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
. .
Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra. No. ·26,
Ma"ch 29, 1916.
Caymus, Yountville, 18,6. Removed and name changed to St. Helena, O~t. 10, 1867.
Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1974.
,
Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

724

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. B, 1910. .
105 Siskiyou Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Colum·
bia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
·
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 ' Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known
as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colwi~; Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1~65.
Doric, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never ISSued.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 10, 1862.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrende~ed July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
.
155 Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill Pilot Hill 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec., 1898.
Virgi:Ua City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Ne162 Virginia
vada, Jan. 16, 1865.
. . . .
d
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to. Jur1SCilct1on of Neva a,
Jan. 16, 1865.
. . . .
f
d
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to Junsdicnon o Neva a,
Jan. 16, 1865.
·
d J
6
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to ju:isdiction of Neva a, an. 1 ,
1865
.
f erre
· d to Juras
· · d'1ct1on
. o f N evada,
171 Escurial,· Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Trans
Jan. 16, 1865.
. . . .
d
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to iumd1ct1on of Neva a, Jan. 16,
1865.
.
ha
. d
• Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May ~5, 1864. C rter never 1SSue .
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct., 16.' 1.87.9.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to Jumdictton of Arizona, March 25,
Ul82.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No.
180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrob~, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
.
197 Paradise, Hay\vards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never issued.

bey,

;

205
213
218
222
223
227
238
239
240
249
251
252
257

263
270
276
284
298
311
340
342
350
364
371
373
386
398
432
438
456
553
597
611
628

664

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

725

Newville, Newville, · .1870. Consolidated with Oiivet N~. 364, as Olivet No. 205,
October 1, 1917.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881. .·
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as ~foseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charte~ surrendered Oct. ~ 5, f897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
.
Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
.
.
.. '
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June · ~·r 1~81. Transferred
to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25., 1882.
.
Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction, of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
'
.
. 11 ' •
Fall River,- Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78.
Dec. 25, 1919.
Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13,
1910.
Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
Cavite,"Cavite, P . I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Ialands, Dec. 19,
1912.
Olivet, Coming, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct: ·1, · 1917.
Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T . H ., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371; Oct. 12, 1916.
Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907, Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
·
Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18, 1925.
Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554, Feb.
Iii, 1940.
Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of t he West No. 628 as
Truth No. 628, February 14, 1939.
Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15; 1931.
Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No. 597 as
Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
O.isis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850.
1850

1856

JoMthan D. Stevenson, G. M. William H. Howard . .. G. M.
California No. I
John A. Raymond .. D. G. M.
Born Jan. I 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894
Lemuel Lyon ...... ~...S. G. W.
John A. Tutt............ D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner ........S. G. W. Peter W. Randle .... J. G. W.
Sashel Woods ........ J. G. W. Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Levi Stowell ....- ....- ...... G. T. Alex G. AbelL ............ G. S.
John H. Gihon ..............G. S.

1851

1862
William C. Belchar ....G. M.
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12, IB20
Died Sept. I, 1895
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
John W. Harville....S. G. W.
John B. Hewson ...... J. G. W.
James Laidley ·-····-··-·--G• T.
Alex G. AbelL ............G. S.

1857

John A. Tutt.... _________ G. M. Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
1863
Tehama No. 3
Washintton No. 20
William
C.
Belcher....G. M.
1
~?~~ 1,.1 ~~
~r~~ ~~,y r~
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Benj. D. Hyam ......D. G. M. Charles Marsh ........ D. G. M. Louis Cohn ...- ......S. G. W.
E. F. W. Ellis ________$, G. W.
Wm. A. Davies ......J. G. W.
Aaron D. Parl....... S. G. W. James
Laidley ......____ G. T.
Benj. S. Olds _____ J. G. W.
Towns'd A, Thomas......G. T. John B. Pope .......... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell ............ _G, S.
Levi Stowell ........., ______ G, S. Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.
1864
1852

t4:y

r2.

William C. Belcher ·....G. M.
Benjamin D. Hyam ...... G. M.
1858
Benicia No. 5
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Born March I, 1813
Nathaniel G. Curtis..G. M. Wm. A. Davies........S. G. W.
Died July 12, 1893
P. W. Shepheerd .... D. G. M. Isaac S. Titus ........ _J, G. W.
Chas. M. RadclifLD. G. M. Wm. McCormicl...S. G. W. James Laidley .......- .....G. T.
Adolphus Hollub ....S. G. W. Jes. W. Bicknell...... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell ......- ......G. S.
J. R. McConnell .... J. G. W. Addison Martin ............G. T.
Addison Martin ...... __ G. T. Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.
1865
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.
Gilbert
C.
Claiborne
.. G. M.
1859
1853
San Joaquin No. 19
Charles M. Radcliff..G. M. Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Born 1828
Died Dae. I, 1908
Tuolumne No. 8
P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Wm. A. Davies_...:D. G. M.
Ebenezer
Lane
........
S.
G.
W.
Died Dae. 31, 1889
Isaac S. TituL.....- ..S. G. W.
T. A. Thomes..:....... D. G. M. Thos. P. Hawley ...... J. G. W. Henry H. Hartley.. J. G. W.
Jno. R. Crandall.... S. G. W. Addison Martin ............G. T. James Laidley ......- ...... G. T.
Richard F. Knott....J. G. W. Alex G. AbelL ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.
Addison Martin ............G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.
1860
1866

1854

727

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

726

Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M. Gilbert C. Claibome ..G. M.
William H. Howard .. G. M. P. W. Shepheerd .... D. G. M. H
H H rtl
D G M
Wm. C. Belcher......S. G. W.
enry · a ey.. ' · ·
San Jose No. 10
Al ·
H
d J G w Wm. H. Peterson ....S. G. W.
Born Au9. 29, 1810
v1nza aywar --·· • · · Thomas Beck ..........J. G. W.
Died Sept. la, 1866
AdMison Martin ............ G. T. J
L 'di
G T
Nath. G. Curtis.... D. G. M. Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S. ames 111 ey -------·--- • '
Alex G. Abell ........-_.. G. S.
Rector E. Cole...... S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ...... J. G. W.
1861
1867
Addison Martin ............G. T.
Levi Stowell ..................6. S. James L English ......G. M. · William A. Davies ......G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Columbia No. 28
1855
Born June 5, IB13
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died May 29, 1889
Died June 20, 1916
William H. Howard .. G. M.
T. A. Thomes.......... D. G. M. Wm. C. Belcher.... D. G. M. Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ..S. G. W. John W. Harville .... S. G. W. Thomes Beck ..........S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt...... J. G. W. Caleb E. Wilcoxon .. J. G. W. Leonidas E. Prett....J. G. W.
· Addison Martin ...... ;.....G. T. James Laidley ________ G. T. James Leidley ________ G, T.
Levi Stowell ·-------------:G. S. Alex G. AbelL._________ G. S. A\ex G. Abell... .......- .. G. S.

1875

1868

Charles Marsh ............ G. M. John M. Browne.........G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Naval No. 87
Born Dec. 6 1825
Born May 10, 1831
Died April 28, I876
Died Dae. 7, 1894
Leonidas E. PratL.D. G. M. Ches. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M.
Theo. G. CockrilL .. S. G. W. Wiley J . Tinnin ......S. G. W.
Fredk. F. Barn. ______ J, G. W. Jacob H. Neff... ..... J. G. W.
James Laidley --··--·-··--·G· T. James Laidley - ............ G. T.
Alex . G. Abell.. ...._ ...... G. S. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.

1869

1876

Leonidas E. Pratt________G, M. John M. Browne..........G. M.
Mountain Shade No.18
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M.
Born Au9. 29, 1833
Wm. S. Wells .......... S. G. W.
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Isaac S. Titus__________ D. G. M. Solon W . Creigue.. J. G. W.
John S. Ward _______ G. W. James Laidley ______ G. T.
Richard Dale ________ J, G. W. Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.
James Laidley ____....... G. T.
1877
Alex G. AbelL ........... G. S. John M. Browne.......... G. M.
1870
Chas. L Wiggin .... D. G. M.
Leonidas E. Pratt........G . M. Wm. W. Traylor___ s. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus:......... D. G. M. Wm. H. Crane........J. G. W.
Ch.u. L Wiggin .... S. G. W. Moses Heller ................G. T.
Benj. H. Freeman.... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell ..............G. S.
James Laidley .............. G. T.
1878
Alex G. AbelL ........... G. S. John M. Browne.......... G. M.
1871
Wm. W. Traylor .... D. G. M.
Leonides E. Pratt........ G. M. Wm H. Crane ........ S. G. W.
C. Broder...... J. G. W.
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Robt.
Moses Heller __________ G , T.
Ben. H. Freeman .... S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins...... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
1879
James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ........... G. S. William W. Traylor.... G. M.
California No. I
1872
Born March 17, 1822
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M.
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Benj. H. Freeman .. D. G. M. Sam~el C. Denson .. D. G. M.
Geo. C. Perkins...... S. G. W. Clay W. Teylor......S. G. W.
John M. Browne.... J. G. W. John Q. Adams ...... J. G. W.
James Laidley .............'. G. T. I 'oses Heller ................G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

s.

1873

1880

Isaac S. Titus.............. G. M. Samuel C. Denson ......G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Union No. 58
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Born Ser,t· 23, 1839
Died Aprll 22, 1892
Died Ju y 26, 1917
Geo. C. Perkins...... D. G. M. Clay W. Taylor ...... D. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne...... S. G. W. John Q, Adams......S. G. W.
Chas. E. Mitchell .... J. G. W. 0. W. HollenbecLJ. G. W.
James Lai.dley .............. G. T. Moses Heller ................G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

1874
George C. Perkins .... G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Born Aug. 23, 1839
Died Feb. 26, 1923
John M. Browne.... D. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker.........S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ...... J; G. W.
James Laidley _............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

1881

1882
Clay W. Taylor_______ G, M.
Jonath. D. Hines .... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson .. S. G. W.
George Hinds _____J, G. W.
Moses Heller ·--··-------6• T.
Alex G. Abell ..............G. S.

1883
Jonathan D. Hines ...... G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin ...... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson .. S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker....J. G. W.
Moses Heller .....______ G, T.
Al11x G. AbelL .._______ G. S.

1884
Jonathan D. Hines. ..... G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ...... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson .. S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker....J. G. W.
Moses Heller ................6. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.

1885
Wiley J. Tinnin ............G. M.
Trlnlty No. 27
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Died Nov, 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson .. D. G. M.
Hiram N. Rucker....S. G. W.
Henry H. Knapp .... J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.

1886
Edmund C. Atkinson ..G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov, 17,_ 1837
Died March m, 1911
Hiram N. Rucker.... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee......S. G. W.
Alvah R. Conklin .... J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ............ G. S.

1887
Hiram N. Rucker ......G. M.
La Gran9e No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee...... D. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin .... S. G. W.
Wm. Johnston ........ J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

1888

Clay W. Taylor..........G. M. Morris M. Estee.:...... G. M.
Western Star No. 2
California No. I
Born Sept.• 10, 1844
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died May I, 1897
Died Oct. 7, 1903
John Q. Adams ...... D. G. M. Alvah R. Conklin .... D. G. M.
Jonath. D. Hines....S. G. W. William Johnston .... S. G. W.
Thos. J. Bowers...... J. G. W. Marc. D. BorucL...J. G. W.
Moses Heller.................G. T. Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell_.·__________ G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

728

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1889

1895

Morris M. Estee ________ G. M•. Edward M. Preston •... G. M.
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Born May 4, 1841
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W •
Died April 24, 1903
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. Wm. T. Lucas........ D. G. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. Thomas Flint ..........S. G. W.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. F. M. AngellottL....J. G. W.
iill Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
1890
George Johnson .......... G. S.
Alvah R. Conklin ...... G. M.
1896
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
William T. Lucas ........ G. M.
Died Oct. 5, 1897

---s~ada·,·~p:-- N~ 237----

William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Born March 18, 1850
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W.
Died March 21, 1931
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. Thomas Flint .......... D. G. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. F. M. Angellotti ....S. G. W.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Chas. L. Patton......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S.
1891
William Johnston ...... G. M.
Franklin No. 143
Born June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Chas. R. Gritman .. D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ...... S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevens........J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.

1892
Charles R. Gritman .... G. M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. 10, 1838
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme...... D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens........S. G. W.
Edw. M. 'Preston ......J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.

1893
Henry S. Orme.......... G. M.
So. California No. 27B
Born March 25, 1837
Died Nov. 29, 1~12
Jas. B. Stevens ...... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston .... S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas. .........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S.

1894
James B. Stevens........ G.1\14.
Yount No. 12
Born March 27,' 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Edw. M. Preston .... D. G. M.
Wm. T. Lucas. .........S. G. W.
Thomas Flint............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.

1897
Thomas Flint.............. G. M.
Texas No. 46
Born May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 18, 1936
F. M. Angellotti .... D. G. M.
Chas. L. Patton ......S. G. W.
Jas. A. Foshay........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.

1898

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1901
William S. Wells ________ G. M.
Martinez No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jan 23, 1919
0. S. Henderson ____ D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting ..S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter ____ J. G. W.
Edward Coleman __________ G, T.
George Johnson __________ G, S.
Wm. H. Edwards __________ G, L.

1902

Orrin S. Henderson ____ G, M.
Mornin11 Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting .. D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter ____ S, G. W.
Motley H. Flint.._ ___ J, G. W.
Edward Coleman __________ G, T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L.

1903
Charles W. Nutting .... G. M. .
Evening Star No. 186
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter____ D. G. M.
Motley H. Flint ___ , __ G. W.
Edw. H. Hart __________ J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson __________ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L.

s.

1904
George W. Hunter____ G. M.
Humboldt No. 79

Frank M. AngellottL..G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932
Chas. L. Patton ______ D. G. M.
Jas. A. Foshay________ S, G. W.
Wm. S. Wells..........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.

Died Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint...... D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart.. ________ S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ...... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman __________ G, T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L.

1899

1905

Ror~-

Charles .L. Patton ...... G. M. Motley H. Flint.......... G. M.
East Gata No, 290
~::~folal: No. I
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Died Aprll 11, 1923
Died July 14, 1930
J
A F h
D G M Edward H. Hart ____ D. G. M.
as. · os ay________ · · · ·Geo. M. Perine......S. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells .......... S. G. W. R b H LI d J G W
0. S. Henderson ...•J. G. W. eu en · I oy ·--· ' G. T.
Edward Coleman __________ G, T. Edward Co eman._________ • '
G
J h
G S George Johnson __________ G. S.
eorge o nson.......... . . Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L.

' 1900

1906

James A. Foshay........ G. M.
So. California No. 278
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells: ......... D. G. M.
0. S. Henderson ....S. G. W.
Chas; W. Nutting ..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L.

Edward H. Hart..........G. M.
live Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perine ...... D. G. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler ..........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L.

1907

1913

729

1919

George M. Perine...... G. M. John D. Murphey ...... G. M. Chas. Albert Adams .. G. M.
Alta No. 333
Excelsior No. 166
Pacific No. 136
Born July 7, 1863
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Benj.
F.
Bledsoe
......
D.
G.
M.
Geo.
F. Rodden .... D. G. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd .... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler..........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett......S. G. W. Sam. E. Burke.......... S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce ....J. G. W. F. V. Keesling ........J. G. W. Wm. A. Sherman ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J, Baker..........G. L

1908

1914

1920

Bledsoe.......... G. M. George F. Rodden ....G. M.
Oscar Lawler ............ G. M. Benj.SanF. Bernardino
No. 348
Marin No. 191
East Gate No. 290
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Born Dec. 24, 1867
Born April 2, 1875
Died Oct. 30, 1938
Died Mar. 8, 1934
W. Frank Pierce .... D. G. M. Alb. G. Burnett.... D. G. M. Sam. E. Burke ........ D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller...... S. G. W, F. V. Keesling ........S. G. W. Wm. A. Sherman ....S. G. W.
A. J. Monroe ..........J. G. W. W. Rh. Hervey ........J. G. W. Arthur S. Crites......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1909

1915

1921

E. Burke........ G. M.
W. Frank Pierce........ G. M. Alb e rt G • Burne tt ...... G • M• Samuel
Sunset No. 352
Oakland No. 188
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born Aprll 9!; 1856
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Died Aug. I , 1923
Wm. A. S~erman .... D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller...... D. G. M. F. V. Keesling ........ D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites......S. G. W.
A. J. Monroe ..........S. G. W. Wm. Rh. Hervey ....S. G. W. David J. Reese ........J. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer........J. G. W. Bradford Webster.. J. G. W •. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. John Whicher .............. G. S.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1922

1910

1916

1911

1917

William A. Sherman .. G. M.
Dana R. Weller.......... G. M. Francis V. Keesling .... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
California No. I
Born Sept. 17, 1880
So. California No. 278
Born March 24, 1874
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Died Feb. 19, 1940
A. J, Monroe .......... D. G. M. Wm. Rh. Hervey .... D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites ...... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer ........S. G. W. Bradford Webster ..S. G. W. David J. Reese ......S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey........J. G. W. Chas. A. Adams.... J. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton ...... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1923

Alonzo J. Monroe ...... G. M. Wm. Rhodes Hervey .. G. M. Arthur S. Crites.......... G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Bakersfield No. 224
Humboldt No. 79
Born March 26, 1870
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Died June 14, 1922
Bradford Webster.. D. G. M. D•vid J. Reese ...... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M. Chas. A. Adams ......S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton ......S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey........S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ...... J. G. W. Geo. L. Jones ..........J. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
John Whicher .............. G. S. Thomas :I. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J, Baker.......... G. L.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1912
Wm. P. Filmer............ G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born March 2, 1866
Jno. D. Murphey .... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ......S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett... :..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1918

1924

Bradford Webster ...... G. M. David J. Reese ............ G. M.
live Oak No. 61
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Born Aug. 22, 1871
Died June 4, 1941
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Chiu. A. Adams .... D. G. M, Alb. E. Boynton ...... D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ______ S. G. W. George L Jones ....S. G. W.
Sam. E. Burke.......... J. G. W. Will H. Fischer...... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE '

730

1925

1931

1936

LIST OF INSPECTORS

Albert E. Boynton...... G. M. Robt. B. Goylord ...•.... G. M. Rollie W. Miller........,.G. M.
Orovflle No. 103
Oakland No. 188
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Born Nov. 24, 1876 ·
Born Oct. 17, IB83
Geo. L Jones .......... D. G. M. Fronk W. Mixter.... D. G. M. Jomes T. Froser...... D•.G. M.
Will H. Fischer ··'-··S· G. W. Jomes B. Gi 5t..._.... S. G. w. Leon O. Whitsell....S. G.
Gus. A. Hut11ff........ J. G. W. Wm. A. Sitton........J. G. W. Williom H. Woste.. J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer•..•.. G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer_.... G. T•. Wm. Parker Filmer......G; T.
John Whicher -···-·-G• S. John Whicher -······-···G. S. John Whicher................ G. S.
Thomos J. B11ker.......... G. L Thomas J. Boker.......... G. L Leslie E. Wood .............. G. L

w.

1926

1937

Geor<ie L Jones ...... _G. M.
James T. Fraser.... _....G. M.
Madison No. 23
Humboldt No. 7'
Born May 11, 1873
1932
Born Au11. 28, 1868
Will H. Fischer...... D. G. M. Fronk W. Mixter........ G. M. Leon Q. Whitsell.... D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hut11ff........ S. G. W.
Exeter No. 424
William H. Woste .. S. G. W.
Born Dec. 30, 1873
C. M. Wollenber9 .. J. G. W.
William B. Ogden .. J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer...... G. T.
Wm. Porker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .:............. G. S. James B. Gist........ D. G. M. John Whicher................ G. S.
Thomos J. B11ker.........."G; L Wm. A. Sitton ........S. G. W. Leslie E. Wood~ ..·......-.G. L
R. V. Whitin9: .......J. G. W.
1927
Wm. Porker Filmer...... G. T.
1938
Will H. Fi,cher ···-·····G. M. John Whicher _............ G. S. Leon 0. Whitsell.. ...... G. M.
Thomas J. B11ker...•... :.. G. L
Wilshire No. 445
Oran11a Grove No. 293
Born Sept. 11; 1875
Born July lO. 1876
Gus. A. Hutaff........D. G. M.
William H. Woste .. D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenber9 ..S. G; W.
William B. Ogden .S. G. W.
J. S. Ross ................J. G. W.
1933
Lloyd E. Wilson .....~J G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. James B. Gist..........:.G. M. William Parker Film.,r.. G. T.
John Whicher ........:....•G. S:
Pentalpha No. 202
John Whicher .'. ............ G. S.
Thomas J. B11ker.......... G. L.
Born Au11. a, 1868
Leslie E. Wood ............ G.·L.
1928
R. V. Whitin9 ........ D. G. M.
1939
Earl Warren .......... S. G. W.
G. ust llV A• Hutaff...... G • ..
.... R II" w u·11
J G w William B. Ogden ... :.. G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
° le · ,.., er.... · · · Hollywood No. 355
Born Od. 5 1879 . .
Wm. Porker Filmer..... ~G. T.
Born Au11. 26, 1876
Died Od. 17, 1933 .
, John Whicher .............. G. S.
C. M. Wollenber9 .. D. G. M. Thomos J. B11ker.......... G. L. Lloyd E. Wilson ...... D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ......S. G. W.
J. S. Ross..- ...........S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ......J. G. W.
Robt. B. G11ylord ....J . G. W.
William Parker Filmer.. G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer..:... G. T.
John Whic~er ...... .,~•.•. G. S.
1934
John Whicher ········~···G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......•.,.G. L. Ron d oIp h V• Wh •t•
1 1n9.. G• ..
.... Walter Leonard ............ G. L.
Kln11
Solomon
No.
260
"1940
1929
Sorn Nov. 30, 1870
C. M. Wollenber9 ...... G. M.
. LI o_y d E• w·I1son.......... G• M.
Starr Kin<;1 No 344
· Earl Warren ;......... D. G. M.
ln<;1lesfde No. 630
Born March fl, 1873
Rollie W. Miller......S. G. W. · Born Au11 . 16, '1895
John S. Ron .......... D. G. M. James T. Fraser......J. G. W. Fronk M. Smith ........ D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....S. G. W. Wm. Par~er Filmer...... G. T;. Leslie E. Wood ........ S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter.... J. G. W. John Wh1cher -···-·······G• S. Claude H. Morrison.J. G.W.
Wm. Porker Filmer.~ .... G. T. Leslie E. Wood ..:......... G. L. William Parker Filmer.. G. T.
John Whicher ·········--~JS. S.
John Whlcher........ _..,... G. S.
Thomos J. B11ker...........G. L
Wolter Leonard ............ G. L.

1930
John Stewart Ross ...... G. M.
El Cenfro No. 384
Born May 21, 1879
Robt. B. G11ylord .... D. G. M.
Fronk W. Mixter ...~s. G. W.
Jomes B. Gist...•.... J. G. W.
Wm. Porker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ....••...•:... G. S.
Thomos J. B11ker.......... G. L

1935

731

19-11

11rl Warren ................ G. M. Fronk M. Smith ............ G. M.
Sequoia No. 349
East Gate No. 290
Born March 19, 1891
Born April I, 1894
Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M. Leslie E. Wood ...... D. G. M.
Jomes T. Fr11ser...... S. G. W. C: H. Morrison ...... S. G. W.
Leon O: Whitsell ....J. G; W. G. C. DeForest........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. William P. Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ............ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L Chester H. Warlow ...... G. L.

Inspectors

Date of Commission

District

Clark H . Shaw...................................,.:..........July, 191L...·--··'-·--········· 97
C.
Baldwin ...................·...............:.......... January, 1915..-:............· ···-········· 7
Harry W. Bessac ..... ,............................ February, 1918......_ ...._ ..:.........:..... 49
Karl ' L . Ratzer .."·"'·'--···'······-·············-January 1, 192L...·-··--···········"·······1 17
John M. Icardo................... ;.................... January, 1921.................................. 115
Walter A. S.tewart.......:.................................. July, 1922...................:..:........... 69
Ralph M. Foote ................... ;............ September 5, 1922...: ...... :....•.................. 26
Chester C. Morris .................................. February, 1923........................"...... _ 37
James B. McLees ..........................December 27, 1923.................................. 109
Fred C. Warner ............... :..•..........,........ October, 1924.....•.......•..................:. 83
F. J. J oubert......... ,............~., ................. November, 1924............................:..... 12
Eric R. Johnsoii ..................,........... November 13, 1924.............................. :.:. 48
S. Leslie Hawken ........... :...... ,...........January 27, 1925...................·.............•. 52
Arthur E. Tangeman ...............•.:...... February 1, 1925............................,..... 94
Frank G. Falloon .................................... October, 1925.................................. 75
Henry C. MacMaster.>.....:.................... Fcbruary, 1926..................... :............101
Joel S. Conklin ......,........... ."....................... January, 1927.................................. 11
Thomas A. Dille ............................ November 12, 1927.................................. 78
Clarence L. Fraser ......."·················'···December, 1927.,................................. 63
Manley J . Clark..............,............................................ 1928.......":: ....•...........•.:..... 39
Wm. S. Thompson ....................:................. March 1928.................................. 59
Bernard F. Hoisho!L...... :............ November 1, 1928....•........... ...'................ 27
C. A. Shepherd ...............:............... :November 1, 1928................................. :102
Wm. L. Hovis ...................................... December, 1928.................................. 79
Rudolph Mohr, Jr ......................~ ............ January, 1929-......................... :...... 46
J . Lynn Goode ................ ~ ....:........:... -... January 1, 1929.......................:.......... 81
A. ·E. Blanchard .................................. :................... 1930.......................... ~: ...... 116
Sophus. Npson........................................,.January, 1930............... .:....... :........... 38
Geo. P. Salm .. :................................:..........June 14, 1930............•..................... .82
Harry 0. Carlso.n ...,......:............., ......... ,... July 1, 1930......- ...•.......•............ 57
Lawrence C. Kelley .... ,.........;..•.... December 16, 1930...........:........... ;.......... 84
Alfred F. Breslauer.."............:.................. January, 1931.........................:......... 43
Horace E. Vedder .... :·····:.:............. December 16, 1931............_.............;....., 91
Norman G. Johnsc;m .. ,...•;...............•........January, 1932.............. ~.................... 2
A. B. Guslander'.,,'~····w·· ···'.·-······•; ......,..• ,.January, 1932.,:.. ...... ,............. ,.,....... 3
Walter G. Orman,.........................,.,........ January, 1932............ ,................,:.,. 1
Truman Van Dyl;ce ................. ,............ February, 1932......................... .-........ 76
T. M. Widby ..............,...............•.:......,........... April, 1932.,...............,.,.:.. .,.-:-······· 53 ·
George A. Otis ............... ,................... ,.•....•.,..... M~y, 1932 ....•........ ,...............:...112
Niles 0. Millar ......,•.•.r·····'"··········..,;•···:..,....:... July, 1932....... ,+·,.........:....•......... 32
Harry Nelson .............,...... ~ ......... :.......:..January 1, 1933...- ..............•............ 31
Jos. S. Greenley ......,............•.;..... ~·····-.January 1, •1933..........................,........ 54-A
Thomas B. Pollard ...........:..................... .]anuary, 1933:................................ 19 ·
Louis Mitteln:ian ............................. .:.............. Apdl, 1933 ......... ,............, ..•....,.. 29

s:

PROCEEDINGS OF ' THE

732
Inspectors

Date of Commission

District

T. Glenn Wright.................'.................August 8, 1933.....c............... ~.,.......... 20
.Harry S. Clark.................- .:.•....,.......... October 1, 1933........................,.., .......111
W. R. Farmer..............,...~....,:..,....,.,.......January, 1934....- .......................... 92
Herman T_hqde........: .....,......,.................,,..,.M arch, 1934...........................,..... 8
W. ]. Courtiour..........., .............:.....".August 13, 1934_.......................... 98
H. R. Hargrave ......,....................... September i's, 1934.................................. .62
Chas. H. Knights ............................ December 28, 1934.................................. 108
Alexander D. Potts............................January 1, 1935..................................103
Walter Von Konsky............................January 1, 1935.................................. 41
Arthur JoeL........................... ~..............January 1, 1935..............................:... 48-A
A. L. Auradou............._. ...............,......;.January 1, 1935.................................. 113
W. I. Kohnke .................,......................January 1, 1935.................................. 47
John Behrens.............................. :.........] anuary 2, 19~5 ................................. 114
Chas. S. Hogan............,..._..~ ............................ April, 1935...............................,. 5
Carl· C. Mikesell...................................... October, 1935.................................. 104-A
Samud Dollar ........................................ December, 1935.......:.......................... 61
Willard G. Babcock..........................January 10, 1936...............,..................106
A. H. Allen.;........,...................................January, 1936.................................. 100
James W. Robinson ................................January, 1936.................................. · 16
Chas. O. Burrell.~.: ...............,............] anuary 10, 1936.................................. 54
Raymond G. TayJor..,.,............................. May 1, 1936...•_ .......................... 66
Wm. L . Davis ..............., .. .,,..................... October, 1936................................. 60
Frank Harwell, Jr .....................;:.....-October 10, 1936.................................. 77
vVilliarn C. Gover.................................... October, 1936................................. 6
John R. Moore.................................. October 31, 1936................................. 86
Carl F. Peters.................................. Novernber 1, 1936.................................. 80
George S. Ward ..................................January 1, 1937.................................. 4
Lucas Schaffer-...................................January 1, 1937.................................. 14
.W. Del Richards ..................................January 1, 1937................................. 21
Oliver L. Rawson .............. ~ ..... ,.......~ ...January 2, 1937 ................................. 93
Keith W. Schlaegel.......................... February 10, 1937.................................. 99
Gustav A. Quick...................................._....June 5, 1937......:........................... 71
Harry A. Truesdale............................ Novernber, 1937.................................. 68
Russell W. Giles .......................... November 16, 193-7 ................................. 56
Ralph H. Logsdon .............................. December, 1937.....................,............ 104
Roy I. LeFever...·...,.............................January 1, 1928..............................:... 96
C. A. Severin....,.......,..........................:]anuary 1, 1938 ................................. 34
Orval A. Myers........ ~............................. February, 1938................................. 10
Karl F. Stolting........................................ April 1, 1938.....,.........................~.. 50
Fred Weed,........................................... September, 1938................................. 110
Peter Frederick J ensen ..................,.September, 1938.........................:.....:.. 65
Roy C. Bryan ...................................... October 12, · 1938.................................. 88
George L. Stivers.............................. November, 1938.................................. 23
Guido de Ghetaldi.................................. October, 1938...............................,.. 18
Wm. H. A. Fleischer....,................... November, 1938................................. 42

Inspectors

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

733

Date of Comm.ission

·District

Leonard Gross................................ Decernber 17, 1938-...................._............ 96-A
Harold L. Mason......:..............................January, 1939 .................................. 15
Roy S. Lentball.................... :.................January, 1939..,..- .......................... 36
Chas. H. Foye......................................January 1, 1939.~-........................... 87
Ed L. De Patie..............................................July, 1939.................................. 85
Ralph C. Hine...........!................................August, 1939.................................. 70
E . L. Srnith....._. ......................................January 1, 1939.................................. 9
Geo. E. Delavan, Jr ...............................:.August, 1939.................................. 73
Hardus So.rkness .................................. Novernber, 1939..................................107
Wm. H. Baxter .................................... December, 1939.................................. 65
]. Wesley Sibole.................................. Decernber, 1939.................................. 25
Ralph M. Srnall..:..............................~ ....................,.... 1940......................;...:....... 40
Frederick A. Penri, .......................'.,.......................... 1940............................... 51
Lawrence Bolenbaugh ........................January 1, 1940.................................. 35
Harry L. Jasper................................ February 1, 1940.................................. 24
Chas. E . Simons ............................................April, 1940.................................. 67
Ralph L. Pierson ........................................ May 6, 1940.................................. 95
' J. Tyler Parker, Jr ............................. September, 1940................................... .90
E. L. Hicok (Served 1923 to 1936) .... 0ctober, 1940.................................. 17
Harold S. Morrison .......................... December l; 1940.................:................ 89
Emil Bender...,.......................................January 1, 1941.................................. 44
Chris J . Christensen ............................January 1, l9.4L....... ,..... ~ :................. 48C
Ira W. Coburn, Jr ..................:............January 1, 1941......:................... ;.., ... 48B
Owen L. Craghead................................March '20, ll)4t.:.................. ~ ............ 58
Henry Kaiser ...................................'.\ ......... April 1, 1941.................................. 55
Rolla L. Eubanks...........................,........... ,..A:pril, 1941.............,.......·:.....:.·..... 30
Edward B. Gould...................:.................... May 1, •1941................................. 64
Joe T. Moran.................................................. May, 1941 ................................. 13
John Ferguson, Jr ...................~ ........... October 7, 1941 .....:........................... 45

734

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Equador:
Dr. C. Alcivar, Grand Secty.,
Guayaquil, S. A.

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Egypt:
Abd El Maguid Younis, Grand Sedy.,
The National Grand Lode of Egypt, Cairo, Egypt. ·

Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand Lodge of Rio de J ane1ro
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo.

England:
Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Guatemala:
Pedro Donia 0., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A.

Canada:
Alberta]. H. W. S. Kemmis, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbiaFrank S. McKee, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
:P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
Manitoba]. H. G. Russell, Gran~ Secty., . .
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova Scotia] am es C. ] ones, Grand Secty.,
F. M. Hall, Hal'ifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward lslandL. A. McDougall, Grand Secty., ·
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
Quebec.
W. W. Williamson, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1559,· Montreal, Quebec.
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Regina, Saskatchewan.

Honduras:
M. F. Rodriguez, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.
Ireland:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico, F. T. Berger, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific, Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secretary, Masonic Hall, Sidney, N. S. W .
New Zealand:
H . .A. Lamb, Grand Secty., ·
P. 0. Box 562, Dunedin, ~ ew Zealand.
Panama;
Andres Mojica, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, C. A.
Peru:
.
Gonzalo Colmenares, Grand Secty.,
Lima, Peru.
Phiiippine Islands: · .
Antonio Gonzalez Grand Secty.,
P . 0 . Box 990, Manila, P . I.

Chile:
Rod Castro 0., Grand Secty.,
Av. 656, Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Colombia:
·
National Grand Lodge at BarranquillaGualberto · Barba, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 333.
Th~ Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota.

735

•

Puerto Rico:
Rudolfo Ramirez-Pabon. Grand Secty ..
P. 0 . Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
Leslie P. Marks, Grand Secty.,
Brisbane, Queensland.

Costa Rica:
Rafael Obregon Loria, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, San ] ose, Costa Rica

Salvador:
Jose Lacayo Tellez, Grand Secty., ·
San Salvador, C. A.

Cuba, Isle of: .
Dr. Luis Martinez Reys, Grand Secty.,
Aparto 72, f-a Hahana, Cuba.

Scotland:
Thos. G. Winning, Grand Secty.,
Edinburgh, Scotland.

736

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

South Australia :
R. Owen Fox, Grand Secty.,
Adelaide, South Australia.

737

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Sweden:
Vngve G. Wisen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurarelogen, Stockholm, Sweden.
r
Switzerland:
The Chancery of the Grand Lodge Alpina,
Bogenschutzenstrasse, 8, Berne, Switzerland.

A
A. E. F. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250) Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), Sari Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593) , Long Beach.
Alpha (431) , R ichmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Vista ( 464), San Francisco.
Alta Loma (643), Signal Hill.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Tasmania:
W. H. Strutt, Grand Secty.,
Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.
Victoria:
Wm. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
Melbourne, Australia.
West Australia:
A. E. Jensen, Grand Secty.,
Perth, West Australia. .

Amity (370), San Francisco.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut ( 461 ), San Francisco.
Argonne (5 14), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia ( 377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224 ), Bakersfield.
Berki:ley (363), Berkeley.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Bethlehem ( 453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills~
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow. .
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawrey (402), Braw ley.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Brentwood (345) , Brentwood.
Bell ( 483), Bell.
. Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Buckeye (195) , Winters.
Belvedere (539), Los Angeles.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Benicia (5) , Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles. Burlingam~ (400), Burlingame.

c.

,. :.J ; .

Cahuenga "(513) , Los Angeles.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611)', .Canoga Park.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.

Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpintei:ia (444) , Carpinteria.
Carquihez (337), Crockett.
Catalina Island ( 524), Avalon.
Center (465) , Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock ( 410), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry ( 569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley ( 427), Chino.
Chowchilla ( 485) , Chowchill.a.

738

PROCEEDINGS OF .THE;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro! (656) , Bre;.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis ( 417), Clovis.. ·
Coachella ( 476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Compass (590), Pomona.·
Concord ( 117) , Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran ( 490), Corcoran.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Colusa (240), Colusa.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado. ·
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334) , Covina.
Craftsmen (559), ·Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454), Daly City• .
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Culver City (467) , Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino-.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
·
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir. ·
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay ( 489), ·Berkeley.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561),
East San Diego.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147), Fortuna:
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.,
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
El Segundo (507) .. EI Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
Elysian ( 418), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Aubur'n.
Evening Star. (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), R iverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter { 424), Exeter.

.F
Fairfax (556), Fairfax.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.
Fairmount ( 435), San Francisco.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco.
1
Fellowship (480), Oakland. ·
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120)1 San Fr.ancisco. .
Fillmore (379), Fillmore. ··
Florence (649). Los Angeles.
Fontana ~653), Fontana.

Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany. ·
Forest Hill (534) , San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361),. Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Franklin (143), Court.land.
Francis Drake (376), South
San Francisco.
Francis K; Shattuck 'C571), Berkeley.

Friendship (2iO), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
i'ullerton (339), Fullerton.

Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.

G
Golden Rule ( 479), Sari Jose.
Golden West ( 455), San Francisco.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittie~.
Grizzly (601), '.Portola~
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

Galt (267), Galt
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena ( 372), Gardena.
Garvanza ( 492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown •(25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Fr.;mcisco.
Glassel! Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora ( 404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta ( 471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco. .

739

J

H
Hammonton ( 433), Hammonton.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Harmony. (164), Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, H. T.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet. .
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Henry Morse Stephens (5~1),
Berkeley.
Henry Knox (662), Los Ange.les.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hermann (127) , San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach. .

Hesperian (264), ' Santa Maria.
Highland.Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville ( 425), Holtville.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, H . T . .
Hope (234) , Beckwith. ·
Hornitos (?'8 ), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Huntington Beach (380),
Huntington Beach.

I
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Ione (80), .Ione.
·
Ionic (520) , Los Angeles.

Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco. .
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.

I .

J

James A. Foshay (641),
Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield (566),
Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles. /
'
Janesville (232), Janesville. " "
Jewel (374), San Francisco.

John Marshall (636);
West Hollywood.' ·
John D. Spreekels (657), San Diego.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508). San JoaQuin. •
Jordan (654), Loa AngeleS:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

740

GRAN, ~'?DGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continuec\

741

ALPHABETICALI LJST O~ LODGES-Continued
I

Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.

Justice ( 549), San Francisc<:

Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mount Davidson (481),
San Francisco.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.

K
Kauai (589), Lihue, H. T.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, H. T..
King David's (209),
San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260),
San Francisco.

N

Lexington (104), El Montr
Liberal Arts (677),
West Los Angeles.
Libertas ( 466), Bakersfield.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lincoln ( 470), San Francisco.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Livingston (658), Livingston ..
Lodi (256), Lodi;
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Los Gatos (292)', Los Gatos.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lynwoou (600): Ly1iwood.

0

Meridian (667); Glendale.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angelts
Midway (426), Taft.
Military Service' (570),
San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angele\.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Monte Vista (655), Long .Beach.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill
Morning Star (68), Sto.c kton . . ,. ,,. ·

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's . .
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville ( 103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (;369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (.~IH), Oceanside.
Ojai (663), Ujai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning,
·

p

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Malta (661)'; Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.'' ~
Maricopa (434), Maricopa. · · · '
Marin (191), San Rafael. >.t " · ·
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, H: T.
Maxwell .(288), Maxwell,.· · ·
McCloud (430), 1 McCloud,
McKinley (347'); Richmond.
Melrose (602); I:.os An~les;.
Menlo Park (651}, Menlo Park.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles. 1
Mendocino 617~). Mendocino.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval '(87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol. :
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla;
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Lancaster ( 437), Lancaster.
Lankershim (542),
North Hollywood.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La Puente (446), Puente. ·
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu, H. T.

Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.

l

I

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont .(521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Porterville ( 303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351 ), .Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus . (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere ( 462), San Francisco.
'PP:irl Harbor (598), Honolulu, H . T.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

'1

742

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGE5"--Continued
R
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Rising Light (397),
R: E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Huntington Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
Riverbank ( 459) , Riverbank.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Riverdale ( 496), Riverdale.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville. Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Reedley (304) , Reedley.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Russian River (181 ) , W .i ndsor.
Richmond (375), San Francisco. .

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Salinas (204), Salinas. ·
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San .Diego.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Gabriel ( 546), San Gabriel.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
San Bernardino (348),
San Bernardino.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
San Jose (10) , San Jose.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
San Pasqual ( 452), Pasadena. .
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), . Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cn~z. .
Santa Lucia (302), Kings City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307) ; Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
San Simeon (196), Ca.m bria.
.
Schofield (443), Schofield. I;lar:racks,
H.T. .
.
.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Searchli~t (567), Long Beach,
Seaport (550), San Francisco. , . .Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.

Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408)., Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel ( 415)., Los Angeles.
Sincerity (132) , Greenv.ille. ·
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna. (.532)., .Ceres.
·
Snow Mountain (271)·,; Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Mo.nrovia.
Solano (229), VallejQ.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320) , Los Angeles.
Southland (61~), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South' Pasadena (367), ·
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco. .
South West (283), National City.
Speranza ltaliilna (219),
San Frandsco.
Standard ('44G) , Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King -,(344), San Francisco.
Stockton ( 498), Stockton.
·
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnysid.e (577), .Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (SU), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los A11ge les'.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235) , Cedarville.
S. W . Hackett (574), San Diego.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

743

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGE5"--Continued

T
Torrance ( 447), Torrance.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684)', Trona.
Truckee (200) , Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3) , Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Tern blor ( 477), Fellows.
Temple City (612) ,Temple City.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks ( 478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff. ,
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francii;co.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

Vacaville. (134), Vacaville.
Vallee de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
·Veritas (640), San Francisco.

w
Westwood (501), Westwood.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676) , San Jose.
Wilmington '(198) , Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (-287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131) , Woodbridge.
Woodland (156) , Woodland.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

Warren G. Harding (579),
' ·North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20) , Sacramento.
Waucoba (413), Big Pine.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
· W est Los Angeles.
Wes tern Star (2), Shasta.
W es"t Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles:

y
Yerba Buena (403) , Oakland.
Yolo (81) , Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

744

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS O:V THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
In presenting its report for the 1941 your Correspondence Committee
desires to express its condolence with our chairman, Brother Jesse Whited,
in his recent bereavement by the loss of his wife, his helpmate and companion for nearly forty ·years; and also our sincere best wishes for his speedy
recovery from his own serious illness.
Practically all the subject material for the committee's report had been
gathered, but remained to be classified and edited when Brother Whited
became too ill to continue. If, therefore, the report lacks its usual final
polish and finish it is because of his indisposition, for who of us could hope
to replace, at a moment's notice, the benefit of Brother Whited's consummate skill and twenty years' of experience.
Respectfully submitted,
JESSE M. WHITED,
OscAR OLSON,
GLEN HOLMES,
FREDERJCK 0. EATON,
FRANK HOBERG,
DANIEL McRAE,
HENRY D. SAVAGE,

Committu.
INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Appendix ...................................... 808
American Freemasonry ........ 810
American Grand Bodies ........ 809
Annual Communications ......808
Masonic Calendar .................... 808
Aprons ............................................744
Attendance ....................................745
Bouquets and Brickbats ..............799
Candidates ............:.........................745
Coordinate Bodies ...................... 747
Cornerstones ................................749
Correspondence Reports ............751
De Molay ............. :........................7,54
Dues .............................................:..754
Education-Masonic .................. 756
Fifty-Year Buttons ......................757
Flag ................................................758
Foreign Masonry ., ......................760
Funerals ............. :..........................765
Grand Lodge ....................•...........767
Grand Lodge His'tory.................. 773

Grand Lodge Records ................ 774
Grand Orators .............................. 775
Installations .................................. 776
Masons at Sight ............................ 777
Miscellaneous ................................ 778
Officers ................. - ....................... 782
Past Master's Degree .................,788
Politics ............,...... :.........................790
Publicity ... :.................................... 791
Public Schools Week.................. 794
Research ........................................ 794
Ritual .............: ...... :.......... :..............795
Statistics
Canada ,:...................................... 813
Coordinate Bodies ..................809
Foreign ...................................... SU
Gran'd Lodges ...................... :...810
United States ............................812
Student Loans .............................. 796
Temples ..........................................797

APRONS
Queensland, 1940:
When a brother is initiated into the Craft he is invested with the distinguishing badge of a Freemason, and is informed that it "is more ancient
than the Golden Fleece or the Roman Eagle; more honorable than the
Garter or any other order in existence"; and it follows that the right to
wear this badge should be regarded as a great privilege and it should be

745

treated with becoming respect. It has been observed and reported to the
Board of General Purposes· that many brethren--even Past Masters-have
been seen passing from the Lodge room and even. appearing in public
streets with this badge in the reverse position, under the coat tail, where it
will probably be sat upon, and thus suffer what may be regarded as most
contemptuous treatment. The Board of General Purposes hopes that, having
called attention to a practice which may have had an origin in thoughtlessness, all loyal brethren will treat this badge with the respect due to a
sacred symbol. Attention is drawn to the last paragraph of·Article No. 192,
Book of Constitutions, which reads as follows: "Brethren are strictly forbidden to wear emblems of Freemasonry outside a Masonic Lodge."
Western Australia, 1940, (Chairman Correspondence Committee):
Customs vary among us, but we are told that our ancient brethren wore
their aprons "to protect their clothing, whereas o·ur brethren of Western Au-·
stalia evidently we;tr a portion of their clothing to protect their aprons. This
friendly observation is made only because we think it a shame to allow a
coat to hide so generous a portion of so beautiful an apron. Well, "thereby
hangs a tale." There was a time, and not so long ago, when those of us who
wear dinner -dress with our regalia were threatened with the possibility of
being obliged to wear our regalia belted outside and over the dinner jacket.
Such a possibility was horrible to even think of, as we knew that our Australian summer has an unpleasant influence upon the theremometer up to 110°
' (it has exerted it during the past few hours iri. which I wrote this l-eview),.
and a jacket with its front covered with regalia fastened theret~ and therefore to the body with a tightly fitting belt would be about as exhilarating
as St. Lawrence's gridiron, and we would be roasted a deep, rich brown,
which would not be for the good of Freemasonry in general or the Western
Australian section of it in particular. This was the view that this scribe
held, and he persuaded Grand Lodge to help him hold it. And since then
we, including R. W. Brother Russell, have been enabled to wear our aprons
in a style which, although it conceals a portion of our regalia, saves us
from sizzling or being fried in Grand Lodge assembled.
"ATTENDANCE
Ohio, 1940 (Grand Master):
Today there is strong competition for one's time. We are besieged
on all sides to join this or that club, society, or organization. The radio,
automobile and entertainment centers are further competition. In addition to all of these things a great number of the people of this nation
seem to be possessed w"ith a mad craze for pleasure that apparently cannot
be .satisfied. I mention these things because they are reflected in Lodge
attendance.
CANDIDATES
Connecticu!, 1940 (Grand Lodge):
All the applicants for the degrees of Masonry in Connecticut must
submit, with their applications, cards in duplicate showing their fingerprints. Such a method of identification will often prove of great '.'alue.
Maine, 1940 (Grand Master):
Maine heads the list for initiates between the ages of twenty-one
to twenty-fiye, inclusive, with a percentage of 36.53; between twentysix and thirty years the percentage is 25.72; or 62.25 per cent of all the
initiates in Maine are from twenty-one to thirty years old, both inclusive.
Rhode Island is second, Iowa is third, and Utah is fourth.

746

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Wisconsin, 1940 (Grand Lodge):
We have earnestly recommended that each candidate be placed in
the care of a well-informed brother who will supplement the posting
lectures with information as outlined, be ready to answer the questions
which naturally arise in the mind of every interested candidate and
lead him to a better understanding of the experiences through which
he is passing. If we fulfill this duty we shall make real Masons instead of
merely adding to our membership rolls.

against him or that he was no worse than some other members of the
Lodge is negative, and should meet with rejection. Only in this way can
a Lodge maintain peace and harmony and avoid possible shame from
coming upon it.
COORDINATE BODIES
Florida, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We think the committee ·was right. This scribe is going to join any
organization he pleases to join, and he has sense enough not to get into
•anything subversive, immoral or in violation of the spirit of Freemasonry.
The Grand Lodge steps outside its legitimate sphere when it presumes
to tell me what I may or may not join. The tendency is for Grand Lodges
to do entirely too much legislating. . They stick their noses into things
beyond the legitimate functions of a Grand Lodge of Masons, and what
ought to be happy Freemasonry gets itself into a state of unnecessary
agitation as a result.

1940 (Anonymous Bulletin):
How frequently the old adage, "A chain is no stronger than its weakest
link," may be applied in human affairs. While the maxim, because of
peculiar human equations, is not strictly applicable to bodies of men, the
principle involved should never be lost sight of when forming a Masonic
Lodge or in passing upon petitions of candidates for membership.
·
The importance of careful selection of charter members of a Lodge
is at once obvious; likewise the investigation of candidates. However,
if the latter is done with that caution and prudence so necessary to carry
forward those sublime truths "instituted by virtuous men" in the moral order
of Freemasonry, the former will take care of itself.
It stands to reason that our great system of morality calls for not
only the proper administration of its business affairs and its various
1 ceremonies, but for devotees whose rectitude is above reproach. How
very important, then, it is that the Master of a Masonic Lodge · should
exercise great care in appointing committees to investigate the petitioners
for the degrees in his Lodge.
A committee of inv~stigation should fully appreciate not only its
responsibilities to the Lodge, but to the fraternity, in determining the
moral character and other qualities including his religious views, particularly his belief ih God, habits, associates, how he spends his leisure time,
his physical condition, whether he meets his obligations, whether he is
financially able to become a Mason, whether, if married, his ambition to
join the fraternity meets with the approval of his wife, and other details.
In other words, investigation of a candidate for Masonic degrees should
not be perfunctory as is sometimes the case.
The sources of investigating a candidate are many and varied, and no
favorable report should be made until those sources are exhausted. They
include the petitioner's church affiliations, other lodge connections, home
environment, employer, fellow employes, his charities, acquaintances, associates, social life, business concerns with whom
deals, clubs if any,
and last but . not least, the candidate's motive for becoming a Mason.
That is, does he understand the gravity and . seriou.sness of Masonry;
that the fraternity in which he seeks membership was not instituted to
afford amusement and entertainment centers for its members; nor to
provide insurance ·for them,- bu~ to inculcate and perpetuate among men
the sublime truths, principles and teachings which are the basis of Freemasonry and whiCh our brethren saw reason to adopt in forming an
exclusive system to pass through the world unconnected with the religion
and politics of all times and every people among whom it should flourish
and increase.
Each member of the committee, having exhausted his sources of
investigation; should present his findings iri a purely objective mannerthe cold facts of the inquiry. The report should be unanimously positive
and free from sentimental considerations. A report tending to qualify the
petitioner on the grounds that nothing of a particular nature was found

he

747

Idaho, 1940 (Grand Lodge):
"No Mason shall apply for or receive any Scottish Rite or Royal
Arch Chapter degree until he has presented himself in open Lodge and
has passed a· satisfactory examination as to his proficiency in the lecture
of the Third Degree."
The Jurisprudence Committee, following their regular report, recom' mended that the foregoing resolution be not adopted.

\

Maine, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Alhambra Temple (Shrine) in Chattanooga has been permitting "Sa_turday Night Public Dances," much to the discredit of the Masonic name
and honor. Apparently the situation was getting out of hand in Chattanooga and Grand Master Linius promptly held conference with the
Imperial Potentate (Bro. Miles T. Gilbert) who promised that "Saturday
night dances will be discontinued." But this was, according to the Grand
Master's .conviction, merely an "evasion" for it was immediately announced
"that the dances would continue as before at Alhambra Mosque, sponsored
by the junior order." More .strength to the arm and elbow of the Grand
Master who "pulled no punches" when confronted by this evasive action.
Listen to his words, "It is evident that we are brought face to face with
an influence from which Masonry will suffer if it is not corrected. We
may speak of our high ideals and sublime principles, but if our members
disregard them, yea even resent them, Masonry will die of moral and
spiritual decay."
Maine, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
An official "decision" along the same line forbids the use of any advertisement bearing such titles as Past Monarch, Noble or Prophet, titles
accorded members of "any organization whose membership is limited to
Masons." This decision was made because the brethren had rather flagrantly
violated the Code during the political primaries by the use in political
advertisements of such titles.
Missouri, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Under "Decisions," the Grand Master of Missouri ruled that "where
the officials of a 'higher body' are given notice of a brother's suspension
for N. P . D., and no attention is paid to the fact that he is no longer
a Master Mason in good standing (although that is a prerequisite to maintaining his standing in the 'higher body'), there is nothing which we, as
Master Masons can do about it."
'
When this came to the attention of the Jurisprudence Committee,

748

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

they did not consider it quite as hopeless as did the Grand Master, and,
according to their view, Craft Masonry could still do quite a little about
it. We quote, "We presume the decision goes to the fact that we have
no control over the so-called 'higher bodies,' which is correct. However,
we still retain control over the individual members of these other bodies
and can prevent them having Masonic communication with a suspended
Freemason and can try the suspended Freemason for posing as. a Freemason in good standing when he is not, arld we do not want to be understood as waiving any of the rights or prerogatives of the Grand Master•
or of this Grand Lodge."

not stop it. I noted, that the same thing is used by church societies. My
reply was that if r attempted to regulate every organization which was
composed in part only of Masons even though the others had some
relation to Masonic families, there would be no end to the police jurisdiction of Grand Masters·. I hold that in groups composed of Masons
exclusively the Grand Master is warranted iri stepping in to terminate
such practices."
True, Grand ·Master, but, begging pardon, we hold that wherever
the good name of Masonry, or the faith and credit of Masonry is vested
or permitted, the sovereign controlling right and authority of Grand
Lodge should attend. Just too bad when even "church societies" may
fix the moral standards of Freemasonry, or by simply becoming associated with a group of profanes, our brethren of the "female brand,'' or
others, as for that,· may allign themselves under the· name, and/or credit
of Masonry gratuitously assnmed, and defy the Grand Master to "terminate such practices" there indulged, though they be definitely outlawed
by Grand Lodge. Masonry's credit-Masonry's responsibility! Take it
or leave it.
·

New Hampshire, 1939 (Grand Master):
In his excellent address the Grand Master makes frequent allusions
to .t he "Higher Degrees" in Masonry. Personally, the writer dislikes that
term · and he writes from benefit of experience. Perhaps he is a bit old~
fashioned, in believing 'the third and last of the symbolic degrees as the
summit. He would refer to them as' "Other Degrees,'' to attain the last
of which is to have unfolde.d for hjm the whole, beautiful, sublime and
complete story.
·

West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Grand Master of North Carolina drew attention to the gambling
activities of organizations composed of Masons, and suggested the adoption
of a law prohibiting•such practices by all organizations in any way depend' ent on Masonic membership, and requiring individual Masons to respect
the purpose of the law. The Board of General Purposes, while approving
of the object of the suggested law, was of opinion that it needed more
"teeth," and apparently that the Jurisprudence Committee was capable
of furnishing the variety affected by crocodiles and alligators. The "J. Ps.,"
however, were not manufacturing saurian's masticatory appliances, and
preferred the Grand Master's model. And Grand Lodge did likewise. It
seems as difficult to legislate folks out of gambling as it has proved to
legislate . them out of alcoholic beverages. Even the Salvation Army is
not invariably successful. I knew a member of that splendid organization,
who used, at times, to be plagued with a Sahara Desert in his throat. He
had his own prescription. He announced a temporary backslide, and
after his thirst had become cured, · joined .up again.
CORNERSTONES

North Carolina, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Inasmuch as the incoming Grand Master· of Tennessee is a salesman
for General Mills, Incorporated, and not a minister, his viewpoint may
not be entirely the same. What took place at the said dances, we are
not permitted to know. Some Shriners, of course, go too far and · should
be restrained. But the public in general recognizes that a Shrine meeting
is a variety of carnival, and the public understands carnivals well enough
to take them as they are. V.f e have observed a lot of Shrine meetings here
i·n eastern North Carolina, and we have to say that the fellows very
successfully have a good time while at tl]e same time there are far fewer
who indulge in excesses than reputation says there are. Carnivals once
in a while do places good. The Shrine ceremonial carnivals are much
better than any other sort that we have seen, in case the· reader wants
to know. All of this is said in general; we know nothing about what
happened at Chattanooga. We asked veteran poli~e at Indianapolis,
Indiana, when the Imperial Council of the Shrine of North America was
in session, whether there was much disorder. "Oh, No!" he replied. He
added that other conventions which went to Indianapolis from time to
time made the Shriners · took like Sunday school classes. Our observation corroborated this.
Ohio, 1940 (Grand Master):
Early in the year my attention was called to an organization whose
membership is limited to Masons, advertising a performance of a circus
on Sunday, It is regrettable and contrary to the ancient traditions of our
Craft that any body .of Masons; whether constituted in a Lodge or any
other . organization; must resort to commercialized methods, or depend
upon the public to maintain themselves financially. It was particularly
reprehensible whe.rt a Sabbath day was utilized for any such purpose.
It was a business venture pure and simple, and staged for the specific
purpose of financial profit.
Texas, ·1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We quote · Grand M~ster Allen of North Carolina as follows for
just what it may prove to '·be worth to our thoughtful readers. He ~ays:
"I was shown a certain scheme for raising money which was in use
by a Chapter of. the Eastern Star Order, according to the allegation;
the scheme being equivalent to a raffle. I was asked whether I would

749

British Columbia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Dispensations were issued to permit Lodges to receive petitions from
persons with physical defects. There must be a lot of cripples in Texas
for 102 of such dispensations were granted and 18 were refused.
'

J

Maine, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Louisiana permits the laying of a cornerstone on Sunday and why
not? It is requested as a religious service, which it essentially is and
our insistence that it is "Masonic labor" is rather a "technicality." 'This
writer has conducted several such cornerstone ceremonials, and the spread"
ing of a little "mortar" with a little silver trowel never appealed to him as a
fatiguing "labor" but rather as a kind of inspirational joy.
Maine, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The cornerstone ceremony was honored by the presence of "a Catholic
priest who was asked to give the invocation." This, of course, was an
unusual procedure and meets with our hearty approbation.
South Carolina, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
~ersonally we feel that those Grand Lodges whose Codes prevent

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

their laying cornerstones on Sunday might well have them amended.
It is, strii;tly speaking, a symbolic service. There is no actual labor involved in it. We see no objection at having such a service on Sunday.

true commencement of most all of the Capitol buildings of the States of
our Republic. Back, far back, through the changes of the centuries they have
performed like service. Humanity has advanced far in learning and mechanical gain, but the square, level and plumb ever retain their value. When in
years to come these stones shall have fallen and another people, and it may
even be another race, shall erect a new city home here, no matter if the
hands that lay the stone be white, brown, yellow, black, or red, they will
fashion that stone by these same everlasting principles of square, level, and
plumb. Masonry as we love it was not made from vanities or theory. It is
eternal in the four dimensions of all matter. It is ancient because it is based
upon experience and teachings that are of old. To be abiding in peace, joy,
and plenty; to exert the breadth of common brotherhood, the length of
honesty, justice, and practical ideals; to seek the height of sterling, upright
character (these are the foundation stones) must be of City, State, or
Nation. Yes, and in individual members of the citizenry themselves.
•With fervent desires that such may be the idhls that shall make and
perpetuate those who shall shapen the destinies of this city, we lay this
cornerstone upon the firm foundation of our faith in God, our country, and
our citizenry, and cement it firm with the effective joy-givihg .cement of our
brotherly love.

750

Utah, 1939 (Grand Lodge):
Beginnings are ever of true interest. The imagination is kindled with
the commencement of the new. Perchance there are so many failures
of completion that the race has turned to initiating ideals rather than
to concluding attainment. Of old, the ceremonies of building have centered
about the cornerstone. Anciently it was garlanded, jeweled, berobed,
and of superior workmanship. Shoutings accompanied its setting. All
the elements of holy consecration blessed it. Of utmost care was the
task of aligning it. Ages ago when compasses were unknown no pains
were too great to have it laid true to the true north. In fact, archeologists
find in the trueness of direction of primitive . cornerstones one of the
surest indications of the education of those of the time and place where
the stone was placed. We Occidentals think we have outgrown all that,
and many of our cities do not square with the compass, to say nothing
of regarding the true north. Consequently we give little care to exactitude
of direction, and it is doubted if there is a true stone in the west. The
Indians of Central America, however, laid the cornerstones of their temples
with exactitude for the true north.
The olden tools of the Craft have been placed upon the Craftsmen's
work not as vain show, but as indicative of the teachings that the ages
have found helpful. Times like this were selected, because of general
attendance and deep interest, as fitting to impress on serf and leader the
basic foundations of con~inued government. The level indicated the time
element. The unlevel stone if continued would result in a leaning building
as it did with the tower of Pisa. If care was not taken at the foundation, serious trouble and ruin were the only pos~ible iesult. Honesty,
carefulness and exactitude of justice were the properties on which to
build. The square indicated the breadth angle. If true it would be none
less than brotherhood of all the citizenry with bonds of sympathetic
justice. The plumb, in their estimation, told of uprightness. If these seem
far-fetched and duplicating', remember in other days the printed page
instructed not. Populaces learned much from public ceremonials.
There is another interesting line of thought for us today. We are
gathered ·here as integral parts of a city. It was with the cify that most of
our life impelled upward from the tribe and clan. ·Republic commenced
with cities. The history of the early city states of Greece, Rome, and
later northern Europe and Italy, is filled with interest. Representative government commenced there. What we know as ,commercial corporations,
combinations of interest in guild or industry, art, sanitation, education, and
cultural virtues arose within city confines . People learne'i to live together,
legislate for common ends, work together for united goals not in the rural
areas, but in cities and towns. We.meet as citizens of a city, and that thought
alone is pregnant with interest and historical thought: We overlap many
centuries in that we plan here that the finest structure of this city shall be
the city building: It should be so. Pride in our city should tone and lead
upward eoming movements. Most fitting is it that the oldest of all building
organizations should have full part in the placing of the first stone, and of
supreme honor is it that tools of kin-1.red form and words of like meaning
should be used here that another Grand Master used and voiced when
George Washington laid the cornerstone of the National Capitol so many
years ago. Upon · that stone, so laid, arose the structure and dome of the
home · of our nation. These same tools and words have officiated for the·

751

CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS
, Alberta, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We note with regret that the interest taken by the members of this
Grand Lodge in the report on Foreign Correspondence has so diminished
as to raise the question of the advisability of its future publication. In the
committee's report the subject is djscussed purely on a basis of costs. It is
most surprising that a report that has for years received such · generous
approval throughout the other English-speaking jurisdictions, a report that
is always referred to as one of the most outstanding .of any Grand Jurisdiction, should be regarded with such indifference by the membership of
its own Grand Lodge.
Arizona, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence presents (without
benefit of personal appearance) his sixth report under the plan of reporting
and reviewing the proceedings of sister Grand jurisdictions as has been in
vogue since 1934. This, briefly, is that of having reviews prepared by the
Grand Representatives, or others where the Grand Representatives cannot
perform. These review's are edited, prepared and retyped for the printer
by the Chairman.
The disadvantage.s are that several jurisdictions are missing each year,
because those few to · whom the work was assigned could not prepare a
review-not because they did not wish to, but pres·sure of their own affairs.
On the other hand the reviews present a wider and more varied series
of reviews than is the case where one brother does the whole task, no matter
how capable he may be or the time at his disposal. The brother privileged
to submit a review certainly has a pleasant and instructive duty and receives
the greatest benefit. Thus forty to fifty brethren are annually given an
opportunity to labor among the circle of foreign correspondents, both by
reading and doing.
This year several new names appear (each reviewer is given due credit
for his efforts) and have contributed splendid reviews, comparing favorably
with the efforts of the "Old Guard" Grand Representatives, who have performed so nobly these six years.
Your chairman still insists these reviews are not ~orth the expense of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

printing as far as reader interest is concerned. Who reads them besides the
fraternal correspondents of other jurisdictions and our own contributors?
The answer is probably "no one."

If you want to know what and how other Grand Lodges do things, simply
take time off (not much required), and read the booklet, prepared, published, and presented to you for your personal use and information.

Iowa, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Past Senior Grand Warden A. E. Jensen, now Grand Secretary, submitted a short report on Foreign Correspondence. He paid a modest compliment to their fraternal correspondent and to his reviews. Then he
suggests that as these. reviews are not widely read, or read 'scarcely at all,
the small good accomplished does not justify the cost of the printing and
distribution, and for economic reasons they might well be discontinued.
The record does not show official approval of the suggestion. Will it be
proper to say that should such action be taken there will be deep regret
among reviewers atid other Masonic students all over the Masonic world
who hold the work of Brother Archdeacon in the highest regard and
admiration.

Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
As heretofore, Brother Hemming insists that these reviews are not
worth the expense of printing, so far as reader interest is concern~d.
"Who reads them?" he asks, and answers his O'Yn question by limiting the
readers to, "Fraternal Correspondents of other Jurisdictions and our own
contributors." And as heretofore, the present writer di5'lgrees with him,
in the matter of the number of readers of these reviews and the value of
this work.

752

Mexico, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The formal reviews of Grand Lodge proceedings are not printed this
year and we read that owing to unavoidable delays in printing in English
these reports are usually two years old, making them, in the language of
Brother Loevy, "old and valueless." Another reason given is that of economy
New York, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Committee has read the Proceedings of all the Granci Lodges
which have been received. Herein is presented a digest of the principal
events and decisions of those Grand Lodges. No attempt has been made
this year to present each Grand Lodge separately, because very often
much of what happens is largely of temporary or local interest. The number
and names of visitors in attendance, the number of visitations made by
Grand Masters, are of some value for the historian of that particular Grand
Lodge, but not of general usefulness to the Craft at large.
The request is often made by the Committee on Foreign Correspondence
that its report be read in the Lodges for the information of the brethren.
If this is to be done, the report must necessarily not be too long or too
detailed.
Nova Scotia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
They have no fraternal review of sister Grand Jurisdictions but they
publish a list of all their subordinate Lodges, giving their number, names of
officers and members. This takes about 100 pages in their proceedings,
which can be beneficial to no one except . their own members unless some
fellow away from home should be trying to pass himself as a member of
some Lodge in that jurisdiction.
·
Texas, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
In presenting this report of Reviews, we do so without undertaking
to here digest; and present in conde'1sed form its contents. In the first place
that just can't be done, and even if it could, it would be too much akin to
the now all too general practice of offering wares at prices below cost
of production or rather to encourage that other still more prevalent
and hurtful spirit of "get rich quick." Unlike sorrte of the productions of
some of our topical reviewers (no adverse criticism, for some of them know
how to do the job, and still others just so well, as to lay patterns that we
dare not undertake to follow) we hand you a review in narrative form, of the
proceedings of the Grand Lodges with which we fraternize and that too
with rare attempts on our part to embellish with our own personal opinions.

753

Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
In a brief report by the Committee on Correspondence, attention is
directed to the fact that eight Grand Lodges have dispensed with the regular report. These are Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and South Dakota, and these are
joined this year by Colorado and we learn later that Nova Scotia has done
the same.
Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Grand Master Going admitted the "temptation to outline what I think
is wrong with the world." Fortunately for writers of correspondence
reports, he had sufficient grace to resist this temptation.
West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
At times, complaints are made that th e reviews are not read, and the
complainants invoke our ancient friend Cui Bono's opinion. Some . lament
in language suggestive of dotting their i's with tears because they assume
that the educational value of the reviews is not appreciated. Others mourn
of heart-rending fashion that although the Masonic value of the proceedings and accompanying reviews is greater than the value of a "b~st seller "
in fiction, the latter receives preference where money has to be paid,
whereas the demand for the Masonic volume should be equal to that for
a fiction-tli.rHler. Yet other reviewers grow lachrymose when they consider the ways of Masonic economists who wander about, like 'rvagrom
men," with pruning knives and safety razors in their fists, with which
to prune down, or to completely shave off the review with all the vigor
'\ of the novelist, Frank Richardson, applying his Bengal razor to this
face-fungus.
There is a trouble somewhere, with which no grumbler's finger seems
to have connected. The question may be submitted to them: is not the
trouble in the style of the review? Is it necess<1ry for the reviewer to sit
at his desk enveloped in an atmosphere of portentous gravity such as
might be expected of a man who intended to lunch upon a chop, but
absent-mindedly lu nched upon his mother-in-law? Why take the task of
reviewing with the same seriousness that one takes a dose of asafoetida,
or listens to a preacher who has reached his "twenty-ninthly, brethren,"
with pages of sermon still indicating that he may rise to a higher ceiling
of "sixty-fifthly, brethren," before he calls it a day, and his congregation
calls him various things unpleasant? We impress upon each oth er that
Masonry has a social side, and 'surely, it should be possible for the review
to partake of a sample of the side instead of ostracizing it as though
it was that horrible creature known in medicine as a dibothriocephaluslata! If I were asked for my ideal of a reviewer, I would at once say,
"Brother Samuel Langhorne Clemens, of Missouri, whose Grand Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF .THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALJFORNIA

i!s pr9ud to have been able to count Mark Twain, the world's great
humorist amongst the Masons of that jurisdiction." Fine reviews would
have bee~ written by Mark, the author of that funny recipe for making
bean soup: "Take a pail of water. Pour in one bean." Next to. Mark
Twain, my vote would have gone to F. C. Burn~nd, a former editor of
London Punch · who in the days of crazy Esthettsm represented one of
enthusiasts cli~bing the Alpine snows, and afterwards embodying his
shivering experiences in the words, " I sat up all night witq an edelweiss,"
a tiny, insignific·a nt blue flower which grows in t?e .crevices of t?e Alps.
Let us import light-headed gaiety into our reviews, remembering that
if we must endow them with the gravity belonging to Nebuchadnezzar's
idol that great grass-eating monarch, like the good, sensible vegetarian
he ~as, enlivened it with psalter, sackbut, dulcimer, and all other kinds
of music.

in civil government, mo.re and more endeavoring to bring its burdens
to the central body. We may be o ld fashioned, but we believe that remission of dues should constitute a duty or privilege of the Lodge itself.

754 .

Oregon, 1939 (Grand Master):
The brother who can pay his dues and will not is no longer a Mason
because Masonry is of no use to him and he is of no benefit to th~
Order. /here are many delinquents -Who spend unnecessarily each we.e k
sums greater than Lodge dues. There are others who pay their. dues
to the so-called "higher bodies" and neglect their Lodge dues. Lodge dues
should come first and should not be remitted in cases where dues are paid
to other bodies.
If Masonry is worth anything to a man the cost is of minor importance.. I doubt very seriously if more candidates can be procured by
reducing fees: If a Lodge has not been receiving petitions in sufficient
numbers it is not because the fees and dues are too high. The. reason
lies elsewhere. We sh?uld be sure that a small fee does not bring in a
cheaper grade of material and make the probabilities for relief or assistance
consequently greater. Masonry should consider nothing but the best of
material. Second growth timber will not meet Masonry's specifications.

Wisconsin, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We have always felt that the thing which makes a Foreign Correspondence Report worthwhile is the remarks, usually th_e ~x_Pression of.
the opinion of the writer, only i_t is understood ~o .be an ind1v1dual rather
than the official opinion of Grand Lodge. This 1s the reason that the
Foreign Correspondence Report is simply received and published rather
than being approved by Grand Lodge.
.•
DE MOLAY
Nevada, 1904 (Grand Master):
Through the Order of De Molay, Freemasons assume . their o~li­
gation and opportunity as individual Mas~ms as well as their. collective
capacity as members of our Order, to bring to bear the healing art of
trained cltaracter-builders on the restless, worried youth of today. The:e
is no field. of activity in which Masons can be better employed than m
promoting the Orders of De Molay and the Rainbow for Girls, which
have as their basic purpose the inculcatiOt\ of standards of character
and ideals of citizenship that will develop the moral and spiritual life of
our young people. By sponsoring their chapters Masonry can best reach
youth between the ages of fifteen and twenty and .m~st eff.ectively in~till
its own concepts of the ideals of personal and public integrity best suited
to promote the public welfare and the welfare of our order.
•It is our great good fortune, a circumstance paralleled in few. ot~er
lands to have at hand a great body of young men capable of assim1latmg
and ;ppreciating the teachings of De Molay. Speaking 'plainly, an untaught
peasantry such as composes the bulk of th~ p~p~lation ~f too many
countries has neither the intellectual nor the 1dea'hst1c capacity _to a~pre­
ciate either Masonry or De Molay. Our country has always prided itself
on being a Classless country---or, may we bett.er sa~, a ~ountry · of one
great class: Americans! .T his class, our. class, 1s an intelhg~nt.' educated
class all of whom ar-e capable of being influenced by Masonic ideals, and
man~ of whom are capable of being craftsmen themselves.
From such a class alone can come in sufficient numbers suitable
Ashlars fcir the structure of Masonry, or of the democracy in which alone
it can be raised.
DUES
New Hampshire, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Sometimes we think that Masonry is following too closely the trend

755

Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee): ·
Just why paying dues for twenty-five years, or for any other number
o_f ye_ars, should be _rewarded by exempting a Mason from fu rther obligation 1~ the. ma.tter 1s an unsolved puzzle for us. There is neither rhyme
or logic to Justify, nor reason to account for this unmasonic practice. Why
sl.1ould any one-save in very ex~eptional cases-•e relieved of doing his
bit for the support of the fraternity, and thereby cripple activities for the
ben.efit of others. If there is need, remit the dues, but don't cater to that
gram of selfishness in most men, and a willingness, if not a strong desire
to get something for nothing.
Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Corr:espondence Committee):
The problem of delinquent . dues appears to be a serious one. The
Grand Master sees in the large amount delinquent, the resu lt of mistakes
ma<'le ten and twenty years ago. He urged that positive action be taken
by the Master and Wardens: "It is better that you clear your rolls and
start over," he said. He had found Masons who paid "their dues to the
so-called hi~her bodies," and neglected to pay Lodge dues. Why not cut
the foundation from under such nominal members by suspending every
mother'.s son of that class?
He takes. no stock in the " ?nee . a 11.;f aso~, always a Mason" theory .
and we are m hearty accord with hm1 in this. ·Apparently, todge's of
Ores-on do not pay Grand Lodge per ·capita on members whose dues are
remitted. He recommended that, " • • • Lodges be not r elieved from
paying per capita dues because of remittances above five per cent of the
total membership." In Utah the per capita is paid on every member
carried on Lodge rolls-and properly .so, we think.
Wisconsin, 1940 (Grand Master):
Much .time and effort ~ave been expended on the work of reclaiming
and restoring to membership worthy brothers who, for economic .reasons,
have been dropped from the rolls of membership. Much injustice has been
done by suspension of members who were unable to meet their financial
obligations to the Lodges and correcting this error has been one of the
objectives of the year. General restoration of all suspended brothers is,.

GRAND LODGE 011' CALIFORNIA

757

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

756

of course, not to be recommended, for among those suspended are many
of whom the fraternity is well rid. But the worthy brother, unable to pay
his dues, but earnest in his love for Masonry and in his attachment to
the Lodge, is deserving of fraternal consideration.
Each case must be determined on its own merits and it is a task
requiring careful investigation and unprejudiced study. Every member of
a Lodge can be interested in th"is work and can perform valuable service by
contact with personal friends who· may be delinquent, ascertaining 'the facts
and reporting them to the Master of the Lodge.
Discussion of these cases in open Lodge is not to be recommended.
The principal officers of the Lodge, being informed of conditions surrounding a delinquent brother, can determine the right thing to do and
the unfortunate brother should not be embarrassed by knowledge that
his circumstances are discussed among the brethren in open Lodge. The
problem is one that requires tact, confidence in the officers of the Lodge
and realization of our Masonic duty to the unfortunate brother.
MASONIC EDUCATION
British Columbia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The reviewer of the District of Colu.mbia is gratified to notice ari
increased interest in degree work among the Lodges, but regrets a
lack of interest in the work of Masonic Education, but thinks (and probably right) that "if the horse really wants water he'll hunt for it."
One of our prominent British Columbia members thinks that the same
thing applies to education...,.-if a brother really wants Masonic education
he will look for it; and with this expression of opinion we are inclined
to agree.
Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Committee on Masonic Research and Education in Alberta made
an experiment to find out just how many Lodges or individuals were
interested in Masonic lore to the extent that they would take the trouble
to seek information. They were quite disappointed over the results as
only four inquiries were received.
It is the same old story over again of inviting men to come and
partake of something, the assimilation of which will require some effort
on their part. When
Masonry learn that it is dealing with humans?
When will it learn that the human is an animal that, in 99 per cent of
the time, does' nothing that r equires effort unless it is driven to do so
either by its own needs or by an edict laid down by authority. Men
work in the majority of instances not because Of the love for work but
rather because of pride and station, their own need for food and the
need of their dependents. Even the latter at times are not sufficient of
an incentive and families are deserted and left in want rather than to
put forth an effort to provide for their needs.
So, too, we find them in their relation to Masonic education if the
acquisiti9n requires effort on their part. Even if another spend the time
to prepare a paper on a subject, many find the effort of attending Lodge
to hear it too great.
It is the contention of this writer that efforts made to educate those
who are members at the present time is in the majority of instances a
waste of energy. Education should begin the moment an initiate enters
the Lodge for the first time and continue with mounting force through
the three degrees. By the time he has finished his degree work there will

will

have been aroused in him a desire for further knowledge that will in itself
drive him on or he will be one of those content to re11t where he is in
which case nothing but compulsion will cause him to go forward.
'
~an as a whole desires either to be led or driven. This is not only
true m fraternal but in other activities. For instance look at his reaction
to religion. Over 50 per cent of the chur ch members o~ the North American
continent prefer to be told, thus and so you shall approach your God-in
these words you shall ofl;er up your prayers and here and so you shall
bend your knee. Man does not worship God because he loves him
although we like to assure ourselves that such is the case, but rather fo;
fear that when he steps from the known into the unknown he will be
numbered among the goats on the left.
This writer contends that Masonry should demand more of its members and request less. This holds true particularly in the matter of attendance on communications. Masonry in its kind and benevolent manner
has gone on its wa-y persistently losing members and a decline in interest
o n the part of those remaining on its rolls while the service clubs with
far l_ess to offer have continued to grow. A r e the meetings of the various
service clubs less stereotyped than his Masonic meetings? We think not,
al~hou~h what. he hears there is of a far lighter vein and interspersed
with hg.ht stones. T hey'. too, become burdensome and trying to him, yet
he continues to attend simply because non-attendance brings a monetary
, · fine and af~er so many non-attendances he is dropped from the roll. They
rule that either you attend the meetings or out you go.
W,e possibly have wandered far from the original subject of Masonic
education and on second thought we admit that we have, yet we cont~8:d tha.t for Masonry to succ'eed in any of. its activities under present cond.1t10ns 1t must. take ii:ito· consideration the changes tha t h ave occurred
smce the adoption of its usages and must meet other interests in competition for men's leisure time.
·
·

•

FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
Indiana (1940):
Your committee ff nds that fifty year buttons medals or certificates
are given in all jurisdictions in the United States ~xcept in the following:
Alabama, Delaw are, Georgia, Minnesota, Mississippi New Mexico North
C.ar?lina, Pennsylvan.ia, Utah and Wyoming. In s~veral of thes~ jurisdictions. the cu~tom 1s obser".ed .by individual subordinate Lodges, while
others hke Indiana are now m the course of considering adoption of an
e'm blem by the Grand -Lodge.
The Grand Lodges of 27 states give 50 year buttons and eight give
50 year medals. (O't!r co~res?ondence with eight ~f the nine Gr and Lodges
of Canada sho.w s that six give medals and one gives a button.)
Since s_o &:eat a preponderance of our states give buttons, and because
all the expressions of preference which have come to the committee have
be.en in favor of something which can be worn every day, the committee favors for the form of this emblem, a button rather than a medal.
Th.e size (diameter) of the buttons range· from 7/ 16 inch (Michigan)
to % mch (Kentucky), the average being. about ~ inch. Considering
that the lettering on these buttons should be lar.g e enough to be read by
men over 71 years of age your committee believes that ~ inch is the
most appropriate size button.
The conventional square and compass design has been adopted in 15
states; the Grand L odge Seal in nine States; the state seal in four states;

758

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

a shield in two states and a state map in one st~te. Three designs which are
ve.ry beautiful, (but too small to be distinctly seen by most persons of
middle age), are as follows: Nevada-The weeping virgin and father time ;
New Jersey-The great and lesser lights bf Masonry; West VirginiaNu.merous Masonic emblems including the hour glass and the scythe.
Aside from the last three mentioned designs the following also are ·outstanding : District of Columbia and Missouri, Grand Lodge seals· Connecticut, shield; Montana and Vermont, square and compass; and Kentucky, state seal.
The following manufacturers have submitted various designs: Whitehea?-Hoa~ Co., New~rk, N. J.; Adnov Co., Indianapolis; Chas. B. Dyer,
Ind1anapohs; St. Louis Button Co., St. Louis, Missouri; and Rubenstein
Bros. Jewelry Co., Chicago, Illinois.
·
Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
As the law now stands the fifty year or the Grand Lodge Veterans
medal is presented only to those brethren who have held their membership in Maine during the entire period. The Grand Master advocated a
modification of the proviso. He also recommended that a new "medal"
be struck from bronze to be known as the "Joshiah Hayden Drummond
Medal" in honor of one of their illustrious brethren, to be presented to
members of the Craft who have performed meritorious service. This
recommendation was adopted and we for one hope that in the future
distribution of these "medals" they do not follow the present trend among
Jurisdictions that extend such recognition but who as a rule present the
"medal" either to their Grand Master who as a rule has had sufficient
recognition or to the Grand Master of another Jurisdiction equally honored.
Our contention is, and even though it is .none of our affairs vet we
voice the opinion that among the various Lodges of a Jurisdictlo~ there
are men who have given their entire life in the interest of the local Lodge
without thought of reward or honor and that it is these men who have
rendered meritorious service rather than those who through circumstances have sat in the Grand East.
FLAG
Connecticut (1940):
Connecticut Grand Lodge has a rule that "The American Flag shall
be displayed in the Grand East at every session of · the Grand Lodge
from the opening. to the closing thereof." Grand Master recommended
that this rule be extended to subordinate Lodges, a_n d that the salutation
of the Flag be the -first order of business following the opening of every
Lodge. The rule requiring the display of the Flag was extended to subordinate Lodges, but the manner of honoring 'the Flag was left to the
discretion of the Master of the Lodge.
Iowa
The Grand Lodge of Iowa makes quite an occasion of the celebration
of Flag Day and it was celebrated during the second day of the Session.
The Flag is presented by the Grand Marshal and Grand Stewards and
placed iit the Grand East; the members then pledge allegiance to the
Flag and sing the Star Spangled Banner and an appropriate oration is
delivered.
·
Missouri, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
California is bothered with innovations. ·The Grand Master is importuned by degree teams to make various changes in the ritual in the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

759

hopes of creating more interest. This Jurisdiction decided not to introduce a Flag ceremony into its ritual for the reason that many Freemasons
Qwed allegiance to other lands and such a requirement would deny the
universality of Masonry.
Oregon (1940):
At the opening of Grand Lodge the Flag was presented by the Portland Chapter of N ational Sojourners and the Colors were posted in the
East, after which distinguished guests were received and the Grand Lodge
was welcomed by the Mayor of Portland, and the Past Grand Masters,
District Deputy Grand Masters and Grand Representatives were welcomed
and a response given by each group.
South Carolina, 1941 (Chairman, Corr~spondence Committee):
The 89th Annual Communication was held at Portland June 14,
1939. Most Worshipful Brother Franklin C. Howell, Grand Master, presided. As a part of the opening ceremonies Portland Chapter,· National
Sojourners, presented the Colors using their F lag Ceremony, which, we
are told, was appreciated by all present and received with applause.
Worshipful Brother Joseph Freck, chairman of the Committee on Arrangement and a National Sojourner, presented a United States Flag to the
Grand Lodge, which was ·very graciously received. Brother Joseph K.
Carson, Mayor of Portland, delivered an address of welcome. The Deputy
Grand Master responded.
-.
West Australia, 1940:
Another "worriting" entry in the record is that "in r esponse to an
alarm at the outer door," the Flag of the United States and the Flag of
Georgia were admitted together with their bearers. A lmost suggesting
that the arrival of the Flags was such an alarming occurrence that the
brethren needed comforting assurances. They certainly got them in the
fact that while the Flag bearers led the Flags, one of the Chaplains led
a ceremony which included an oath of allegiance amongst i.ts contents.
When I lived in the United $tates I was greatly struck with the number
of times I heard that oath. It is certainly a fine one and amongst my
valued possessions, but belonging to a country which takes its allegiance
for granted, it used to seem to me to take a mighty lot of swearing to
keep one loyal.
Wisconsin (1940):
Resolved, That the Grand Master appoint three (3) Master Masons,
members of this Grand Jurisdiction, for the purpose of drawing up a
Flag presen'tation for use in this Gt-and Lodge together with subordinate
Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction, such proposal for Flag presentation to
consist of recommendations as follows:
·
·
Recommendation of proper salute for use inside as well as outside
of the Lodge room.
Recommendation of proper bugle call (when used) inside the Lodge
room.
Recommendation for consideration of an additional appointive offic~
in the subordinate Lodges, to be known as "Marshal," the same as the'
Grand Lodge now has; the duties of Marshal to consist of : Proper presentation of the United States Colors, and to have charge of all activities
in procession, either inside or outside of the Lodge room, under the direction
of the Worshipful Master.
Any ~ther recommendation or suggestion that may be offered to

·760

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

this committee at this time in line with the carrying, presenting, receiving
and placing .of the United States Colors;
Resolved further, That the committee make recommendations and
present same at this communication of this Grand body for approval and
adoption provided it is possible to do so.
On motion, which was carried, this resolution was referred to the
Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.

courteous response which would infer that they did not desire to be
investigated as to their Masonic regularity.
This Grand Lodge was established in 1833 and at last report had
29 Lodges. Some of these Lodges are very ancien t, the o ldest being La
Parfaite Union, organized in 1729. Lodges at Namur and Liege, well
known during the World \Var, were organized in 1770 and 1775 respe~­
tively. Approximately forty-nine jurisdictions are in fraternal relationship
with the Grand Orient.
.
The Grand Lodge of Bolivia is a comparatively recent Grand Lodge.
For many years the Lodges in Bolivia existed under the Grand Lodge of
Chile. They now have 15 Lodges, with approximately 400 members. One
of the Lodges works in the English language. The Grand Lodge fosters
an In't ernational Club, composed of Freemasons. It also has an orphans'
home for boys, but not limited to sons of Masons.
At one time the Grand Orient was the leading Masonic body of South
America, but only two American Lodges are now listed as recognizing
it (Alabama and Montana).
faraiba seems to be faring best in the matter of recognition. It
bears the euphonious title of Grande Loja de Estado de Paraiba. Arizona,
Montana, and Tennessee have recognized this Jurisdiction, while Washington postponed action for the reason "that to date we have not received
data relative to its ritual."
A representative from the Philippine Islands recently visited the
Chinese Lodges where he was officially received by the District Grand
Master, David W. K. Au. He found that good fellowship prevailed among
all members of the fratern ity in North China.

FOREIGN MASONRY
Missouri,. 1940 (Grand Lodge):
All • Lodges in Alaska Territory are under the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge at Washington. The first Lodge in the territory was established at Sitka, June 3, 1880, but its charter was later revoked. Lodges
were also established at Anchorage, Nome, Douglas, Ketchikan, Juneau,
Cordova\ Petersburg, Seward, Fairbanks, Valdez, and Skagway. The
total membership of the eleven Lodges is 1,495.
. The Grand Lodge Swiss Alpina is becoming quite generally recogn~zed by American jurisdictions. During the past year it has been recognized by Arkansas, Colorado, Nevada, West Virginia, Wyoming, Manitoba
and South Australia.
The Masonry of Switzerland is of high character and in origin it
traces back to .the Grand Lodge of England. As a Grand Lodge it has
done pioneer work in the handling of refugees from belligerent nations
and, through necessity, has become the clearing house for all donations
from American Grand Lodges.
·
South Australia recognized Alpina "guided by the decision that the
United Grand Lodge of England had granted recognition an~d in c,onformity with a resolution arising out of a discussion at the Fourth
Australasian Conference that the procedure of the Grand Lodge of
England be the practice of the Grand Lodges of Australia."
.. It is possible that the Grand Lodg'e. of Argentina should be more
generally recognized than it is, for Masonry seems to have been introduced into the Republic by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania in 1825,
with the establishment of Southern Star Lodge No. 205 in the City of
Buenos Aires. The Grand Orient of France and the Grand' Lodge of
England later established Lodges, and by 1856 an attempt was made to
establish a Grand Lodge. In July, 1857, six Lodges organized by the
Grand Orient of Brazil, established the Grand Or:ient of Argentina.
There is little i,nformation· concerning this Grand Lodge in any of the
proceedings we have read.
When Hitler marched into Vienna; the Grand ·Lodge Wien evaporated
almost as quickly as Hitler came in, the membership going to all parts
of the world. Brother Altmann, an officer of the Grand Lodge, writing
to the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma, which he at one time represented,
stated that almost a hundred Viennese · Masons were refugees in New
York City. · Brother Richard Schlesinger, son of the Grand Master, is a
resident of St. Louis; Dr. Rudolf Dreikurs is located in Chicago. From
the proceedings of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines we learn that
Brother Emil Roth is a resident of the Philippine Islands, where his
daughter and her husband are now living. At last report, Dr. V ladimar
Misar was in Enfield, England, but was making every effort to get out
of the country before an attack by Hitler.
·
The Grand Orient of Belgium does not provide us with their bulletin
or proceedings. In fact, our last request for information brought forth a

761

New Hampshire, 1940, (Chairman, Foreign Correspondence Committee):
· The Republic of Mexico has seventeen Grand L odges working in
the Spanish language, which apparently conform in all respects to our
Code of Standards. None of them are recognized by us, a lthough repeated
requests by several of them have been made. vVe only recognize the
York Grand . Lodge, which. is. composed of brethren of our nationality.
Naturally the seventeen Mexican bodies, with approximately fifteen thousand members, resent the fact that the York Grand Lodge of comparatively few members, working in a foreign tongue, is the direct or
indirect means of preventing their recognition by Grand Lodges in the
United States. That is probably one of the reasons why th e Grand Lodges
of the Republic of Mexico, working in the Spa'1ish tongue, refuse to.
recognize the Y oric Grand Lodge.
·
Our brethren in t.he State of Texas-neighbors of our .American and
Mexican brothers across the Rio Grande-may be presumed to know
the various phases of the Mexican situation, so · that some w_eight sho~ld
be given to .the fact that the Texas Grand Lodge has withdrawn its
recognition from York Grand Lodge and entered into fraternal relations
with the seventeen so-called Mexican Lodges. Ten other Grand Lodges
in the United States have entered into fraternal relations with one or
more of the seventeen, while still maintaining their relations with the
York Grand Lodge.
We believe in such dual recognition under the peculiar c.i rcumstances.
As· Masonry is universal, we cannot rightfully isolate ourselves within
circumscribed boundaries of race and language. We therefore recommend that the request for recognition of the Grand L odge of Tamaulipas
and that of the Grand Lodge of Cosmos, of the Repub lic of Mexico,
be granted.

762

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

New South Wales, 1940:
In Europe today there would appear to be only two Grand bodies.
One in Sweden, the toher Switzerland. Information is meager concerning the fate of the Grand L.o dges of Norway, Denmark, Holland and
Belgium. (These are in addition to those in the British Isles). ·
Nova Scotia, 1940 (Grand Lodge):
During the past hundred and fifty years, Masonry has not been
countenanced in Russia and the former Russian provinces of Latvia,
Lithuania and Esthonia, now under Russian inflt\ence.
·
In Hungary, another dictator country, Freemasonry was abolished
some fifteen years ago on the excuse that some of the Lodges had been
active politically. The fine Grand Lodge building in Buda-Pest was converted into a Labor Temple.
In Turkey, Fr~emasonry was suppressed five or six years ago by
the late Kernel Ataturk, and no Masonic organization exists there of which
we have any knowledge.
In Italy, both the Grand Orient of Italy and the Grand Lodge of
Italy were dissolved by Mussolini, with ruthlessness. A number of distinguished brethren were murdered in cold blood for no reason e·xcept
their .connection with the Order. The Grand Master of the Grand 'Lodge
was exiled, became blind and later died in prison. ·
In the recently seized kingdom of Albania, Masonry has never been
organized, and of course, does not now exist under Italian rule.
In Spain also Freemasonry has be~n suppressed by .Dictator Franco.
During the civil war there was much testimony to the effect that whenever the insurgents occupied a town they shot or murdered in the most
· diabolical way, all Masons whom they could identify and even those
related to them.
On March 2, 1940, the Dictator of Spain issued an edict against Freemasonry and all other seqet societies in that country, on the ground
that membership in these bodies is considered by the Nationalists as indication that the accused is opposed to the government. Masonry was
classed along with communism and all its. property confiscated by the
decree. Any person carrying on Masonic activities was made liable to
imprisonment for six years. The law was made retroactive and all persons who had been members of the Order· were required fo file a statement with the government within two ' months, explaining why they joined
the Order and why they left it. If their excuse was not acceptable to the
government, they were made liable to six years imprisonment, or twelve ·
years if they had received higher degrees, or held a position of special trust,
or attended international meetings. Apparently Spain needs to make much
more progress towards the light before she can find a place as a decent
member of the family of nations.
·
When the Great War of 1914 started, Britain's great foreign minister,
Sir Edward Grey made the historic statement that "The lights are going
out all over Europe." Just such a statement can be made today respecting
the prese,nt Masonic situation in Europe.
In Germany, where Masonry once flourished under seven Grand
Lodges, Hitler ordered the dissolution of all Masonic Lodges shortly
after he came into power in 1934. Some of these bodies tried to continue
their existence under other names, but · they were compelled · to dissolve
and all properties were confiscated by the Huns.
In all these dictator ·countries Masonry has entirely disappeared.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

763

While our Grand Lodge has never recognized any of these Masonic
bodies to the extent of changing Grand representatives, yet the present
situation is one which appals us and sties our deepest sympathies for .
our persecuted brethren in these countries.
Turning now to the rest ·of Europe, we find that, in Austria whose
Grand Lodge of Vienna was fraternally recognized by us, the Germans
seized the Grand Lodge headquarters on the very first day of their occupation, placed the Grand Master in an internment camp, where shortly afterwards, he died as the result of an operation, and confiscated all property
and effects belonging to the Order.
When the Huns created the Sudeten crisis and later seized CzechoSlovakia, the two Grand Lodges in that democracy voluntarily agreed to
dissolve. Since 1934 we have been in fraternal relations with both of
'these Grand Lodges, namely: The Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia and
the Grand Lodge Lessing of Three Rings.
In Denmark, with whose Grand Lodge headed by the King as Grand
Master, we have enjoyed fraternal relations, we very much doubt whether
the Grand Lodge of Denmark dare function as such during the present
German "protective occupation" so_-called.
The same statement must also be made respecting· Norway and the
Grand Lodge of Norway, and respecting Holland and the Grand, Lodge
cif the Netherlands. In spite of much insolent and annoying underground
agitation before the occupation of these countries and outright opposition
·since we have no doubt that in Denmark, Norway, and Holland, Masonry
iive again.
.
.

will

In Sweden, in spite of the fact that the Kin:g is Grand Master and
the Crown .Prince and other members of the royal family are officers of
the Grand Lodge, Masonry, has had to face sharp and malicious anti_Masonic influences. ·
In 'Finland the small Grand Lodge of Finland, also recognized by
us, has always' had and is. still having a struggle. for existence a?ainst
.communistic and Nazi attacks, but here too, we believe, that when victory
is achieved over the evil forces which seem now to dominate the world,
Masonry will be restored to favor.
In Belgium, the Grand Orient of Belgium, because of its removal
some years ago ·o f the Holy Bible from its altars, has cut itself off from
all otker regular Grand Lodges. While isolated by reas.on of the German
occup.ation and because of religious reasons as well, this Grand Lodge
which has faced a similar catastrophe will undoubtedly some day regain
its freedom and be re-established.
· · In France, there are three Grand Lodges, the Grand Orient of
France, the Grand Lodge of France and the National Grand Lodge o.f
France and its dependencies. The last was formed about 1918 and was
sponsored by the Grand Lodge of England, and is recognized by our
Grand Lodge and many other Grand Lodges in Canada an~ the United
States. The other two Grand Lodges are not recognized by other Grand
Lodges generally; the Grand Orient because it has been active politically,
has not been considered regular and does not adhere to the fund-amntals
of Freemasonry such as belief in God,. the presence in the Lodge of the
Volume of the Sacred Law, etc. It has been involved in several unsavory
scandals such as the Stavisky affair. The Grand Lodge of France does
not shar.e the odium of the Orient, but is not generally recognized. Against
all three bodies there is considerable anti-Masonic agitation but the prob-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORi\"IA

ability is tha~ all three will survive and be stronger when France has
purged itself of· Hun influence.
Switzerland with its Grand "Lodge Alpina, recognized by this Grand
Lodge is a bright spot in European Freemasonry. Here strong antiMasonic, Fascist, and communistic agitation forced the government to
take a referendum on the continuance of the institution. The scandalous
charges against the Order, were completely answered by the Masonic
authorities and the result of the referendum wa~ the •' rnergence o f the
Order .stronger than ever. Switzerland may go down in the maelstrom
of the present war, but Europe without a Switzerland, is not probable
and Masonry will again flourish when the conflict is over.
In Greece, Bulgaria and J ugo-Slavia, Masonry still exists and is
gradually growing in strength among the intellectuals. In Rumania there
has been much confusion in organization, and the situation is far from
clear. The present Balkan situation obscures the light and we must
await developments.
Nothing need be 'added respecting the strong and .vigorous Grand
Lodges of the British Isles, with their Lodges throughout the world. Nor
does space permit lengthy reference to the difficult situation in Brazil
and Mexico and in some South American" countries. Perhaps next year,
a further report can be made.
During the year a request was received from the Grand Lodge
Cuscatlan, San Salvador, asking for fraternal recognition and an exchange
of fraternal representatives. This Grand Lodge was advised that it · was
recognized as far back as_ 1925 and that in 1934 its Grand Master had
appointed Right Worshipful Brother George S. Wright as Grand Representative. The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge Cuscatlan was invited
to nominate one of his brothers as Grand Representative near this Grand
Lodge.
Before closing this report, reference should be made to a resolution
recently adopted by the Grand Lodge of England, dealing with the
status of Masons of enemy nationality during the period of hostilities.
In the interest of peace and harmony, the resolution asks Masons
of enemy nationality to abstain from attending any Masonic meetings
for the duration of the war, and would give the Master of any Lodge the
privilege of asking any member of enemy birth, o.r any other person
whose presence might create .d iscord, to abstain from attendance.
During this period, such Masons are absolved from the payment of
subscriptions to their private Lod.ges, to the Grarid Lodge, and to Provincial or District Grand Lodges. The resolution further provides that
these members shall not be counted as in arrears and will be again raised
to full membership when hostilities have ceased and the Grand Lodge
believes that the attendance of members of any enemy nationality would
not cause trouble in the Craft.

Lodge holding personal jurisdiction in favor of regular Lodges in Mexico
to which such men might desire to present their petitions. This recommendation was adopted.

764

Texas, 1939 (Chairman, Foreign Correspondence Committee):
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence recommended that fraternal. recognition be extended to the National Grand Lodge of Colombia,
seat at- Cartagena, and to the National Grand Lodge of Colombia, seat
at Barranquilla. Another reco.m mendation- growing out of t he presence
in Texas of many worthy men whose inability to speak or understand
the English language since they were Mexican or Spanish by birth made
it impossible for them to petition Lodges of the Grand Lodge of Texas,
was that provision should be made for the waiver of jurisdiction by the

765

FUNERALS
British Columbia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
A paragraph is devoted to the Funeral Service, which in the opm10n
of some people, is too long. Some changes in the language of the service
it is thought ought to be made. It seems that this ceremony is a cause
of disagreement everywhere, and in our opinion the best disposition
that could be made · of it would be to discard it entirely.
Idaho, 1940 (Grand Master) :
I can easily overlook mistakes a Master may make in ritualistic
work when filling his station · in the East. I cannot overlook bungling
and inexcusable mistakes made at a Masonic funeral. This is the only
occasion when our fraternity is on trial or appears before the public.
If the funeral service is worth anything at all it is worth learning, I
recommend that the funeral ritual be included in the Master's examination
required before his proficiency certificate is issued to him.
Idaho, 1940 (Grand Master):
Under the Grand Master's recommendation a committee was appointed to consider the matter of a change of date for .the Annual Communication, the change, if any, to be decided at the. next Annual Communication. He also recommended that "the funeral ritual be included
in the Master's ·examination required before his proficiency certificate
is, issued to. him.''. Not adopted.(
Iowa, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
He ruled, and later his Law Committee upheld him, that at a
Masoni~ funeral there might be a band, that the musicians need not be
Masons, and neither need the ,pallbearers be of the Craft. Out here the
undertakers are getting to insist that their own hired men be pallbearers,
holding that trained men can do the job more smoothly and expeditiously.
Evidently time is an element of value and minutes saved can be given
to more pleasurable occupations.
Maine, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
A touch of the grewsome is contained in a recommendation of the
Grand Master that the bodies now buriecr-1.n the two lots in Magnolia
Cemetery owned by the Grand Lodge be transferred to one lot and that
the other lot be sold, the proceeds invested in approved securities and
the interest therefrom be used exclusively for the ·upkeep of the iot
retained by the Grand Lodge which is, of course, a thrifty procedure.
Michigan, 1940 (Grand Lodge) :
Grand Lodge provided for the formation of "Memorial Lodges"
where two or more lodges have concurrent jurisdiction. The social
fun ction of the Memorial Lodges is to be the conducting of funerals
for deceased sojourners. Officers are to be the same as in a -regular
Lodge. The Master and Wardens of such a Lodge shall have attainep
that rank in a regular Lodge. There are to be no fees charged and
membership shall be plural membership. Such Lodges are to_ work under
dispensation of the Grand Master and under his supervision. Expenses
of such Lodges shall be paid by the Lodges having concurrent jurisdiction.

'

766

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Michigan, 1940 (Grand Lodge):
Where two or more Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction have concur-·
rent jurisdiction, there may be formed in each of such jurisdictions a
Memorial Lodge to conduct Masonic funerals of deceased sojourners only.
Upon proper applications approved by two-thirds of the Worshipful
Masters of the jurisdiction, made to the Grand Master, he may issue a
dispensation to the constitutional number of Master Masons of such jurisdiction to form a Memorial Lodge. Such Memorial Lodge shall remain
under the dispensation and until revocation by the Grand Master. They
shall have the same officers as have other Lodges; provided, that the
Worshipful Master and Wardens thereof shall have attained the same
rank in a chartered . Lodge. They shall pay no fees or dues to Grand
Lodge and shall not collect fees or dues. Their expenses shall be
met -by voluntary contributions of the Lodges in their jurisdictions, or
by their local Board of Relief. Membership in such Memorial Lodge
shall be by plural membership only. Any member of a Memorial Lodge
may terminate his membership ·at will, upon written notice to the ·secretary thereof. Regular Communications of Memorial Lodges shall be
held quarterly with an annual meeting for the election and installation
of officers.
We realize this is an experiment, that experience shows that there
are some things lacking, other things that may not be worthy, but we
think this is a worthy proposition as a whole, and that the only way we
can find out is to try it out; we think it is worth a trial, and we recommend the adoption of the report.

to bring about a sufficient revision of the Monitor to accomplish the
brevity suggested.

Missouri, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee)!
The Grand Lecturer in California calls · attention to the failure of
brethren to appear at Masonic funerals. He does not believe the present
attendance 1s representative of Masonry and that we, as Masons, must
live· up to our reputation. Such showing impresses relatives with the
thought that Masonry must be either indifferent or fails to practice its.
fine spirit of brotherly love. Masonic funerals should not be distasteful
duties imposed upon Lodges, but should be sincere tributes paid to departed brethren. We should not create the thought that we are merely
reciting a ritual because it is our duty to do so. Under the heading of
"The End of the Trail," reviewer Whited says that practically all funeral
rituals adopted have proved to be unsatisfactory. Our ceremonies have
been influenced by the evolution performed in the last decade. The
general criticism he thinks is the iriability of a Master to produce a
favorable impression on the public. What used to be a public event has
become a personal proposition.
·
The Grand Master of the District of Columbia brings the same
matter to the attention of his Grand Lodge. He asks "how a member-.
ship of
Lodge of three to five hundred members feel about conducting
a funeral with only officers and four · or five brethren present." He
believes when a Lodge conducts a funeral it goes before the public
and is on trial.

a

Montana; 1939 (Grand Master):
It is the opinion of your Grand ' Master that our funeral service,
when followed literally; is much too long, and when rendered verbatim
as per Monitor, frequently results in discomfort to the listen·e rs, particularly to mourners.
It is recommended that .the incoming Grand Master be authorized

767

Nevada, 1940 (Grand Master):
Grand Master Elwood Beemer, Nevada, offers a unique experience
during his year, when he .performed the last rites over the ashes of
Brother Simon Bowey. B,1"other Bowey, a member of Escurial Lodge
No. 7, had lived in Virginia City for many years and had many fond
recollections of his early life spent there. His last request was that his
body be cremated, and his ashes scattered upon the top of Mount Davidson, which is near Virginia City. This mountain Is surrounded with much
of interesting Masonic history.
New Mexico, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Apparently the most unsatisfactory Masonic function is the funeral
serv'ice. Almost without exception when comments are made they take
the form of adverse criticism. The wording is poor, the service lacks
comforting expressions, members will not turn out in respectable numbers,
the service is poorly conducted, the impression on the public is unfavorable. "What can be done about it?", is an almost universal question.

1

North Carolina, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We could wish that Masonic funerals such as we have seen in the
past might be discontinued-and they are being discontinued to a large
extent. We do not like the traditional funeral ritual of Masonry. We
have prl!pared, and have tried, another which is not the traditional one
or like it, which seems to us better in the light of present day funeral
psychology. Because of the old one, the cities had trouble in getting
sojourners buried Masonically. Hence the Memorial Lodges. It was
frankly stated that they might be a failure, but the experiment is worth
trying.
Ohio, 1940 (Grand Master):
The Grand Master stated that the Burial Service contained in the
Constitutions was intended only for a guide and could be used in whole
or part, which often resulted in Masonry earning for itself an unfavorable
impression on the part of those who attended Masonic funerals, whereas,
"this ritual should be one of dignity, impressiveness and helpfulness."
He therefore recommended that the Committee on Ritual be instructed
to see that some suitable service be prepared and submitted to the
Grand Lodge in 1941, and that the use of which ritual, .when adopted,
be made obligatory upon the constituent lodges. The Committee on
Ritual was, later in the session, instructed so to do.
Oregon, 194-0 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Grand Master felt that such expressoins as "Rigid embrace of
death," "In the grave," "We can do nothfog for the dead," "Dark
portal of the tomb" and "Laid waste by death" have no place in a burial
service and was in favor of the adoption of one minus such expressions,
and one that would offer solace and comfort. Evidently they still 'possess one of the type that belong to that age and time which held that
if the bereaved did not go into a collapse at a funeral, they did not show
pi'oi:>er respect for the dep·a rted.
·
South Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Board of General Purposes has this to say respeding "Masonic
Ftinerals,"-The question of Masonic · funerals arises ·from time to time,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

and even so late as at the recent Australian Masonic Conference the
matter was discussed. In expressing an opinion, it seems that this Grand
Lodge would be on . fairly safe ground in stating the case as it exists in
England. In England there is no Masonic burial service recognized by
the Grand Lodge; in fact Masonic burial services are not encouraged.
In this jurisdiction (South Australia) provision is made for a Lodge of
Sorrow or Memorial Service to be held on some convenient date subsequent to the funeral, to give the members of the Lodge an opportunity
of paying a tribute of respect to the deceased •brother.

establishment. To whom it was dedicated we do not know ; perhaps
to the god Mammon.
The idea of an open air Lodge room is so foreign to the general Masonic
practice that it almost takes our breath away.

768

West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
In re funerals, Masonic law in Indiana does QOt-in fact, it could
not-say a brother must not die. It permits him to be buried Masonically
if his dues are paid up, but if they are not-well, then, no funeral. There
is very much to be said both for and against this phase of Masonic
law, a phase noticeable in many jurisdictions. I don't like it, although
I admit that it is logically just, and that Masons should have it impresse d upon them that the privileges and advantages of Masonry cannot
attach to membership if the payment of dues is carelessly or wilfully
disregarded. Most Worthshipful Brother Morrison's experience of many
sad cases of Masonic funerals being refused owing to delinquency in
dues is, fortunately, not greatly shared in Western Australia: Masonic
funerals are rare in this state. The brethren attend the funeral of a
brother, but without regalia, and the orrly service is that of the "church
to which the deecased belonged in his lifetime. We have an abbrevia:ted
form of funeral service," but I don't think it has been used more than
a dozen times since I compiled it in 1919, when it . was · approved by
Grand Lodge. The researches of the late ·Brother Henry Sadler, SubLibrarian of the United Grand Lodge of England, fully a quarter of a
century ago, all tended to show that early Masonry only gave a Masonic
funeral to a brother who was a stranger to the country in which he di·ed,
and without relatives or friends to attend to the arrangements for his
burial. That seems to have been the raison d'etre of Masonic funerals
in olden ti!Iles, and in British Empire Masonry the later vogue is not
so greatly favored as it was generations ago.

GRAND LODGE
British Columbia, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
In reading the proceedings from various Grand Lodges· one often
comes across a paragraph which causes astonishrpent, thus :
"On August 27, 1938, the Grand Lodge convened at the Masonic Hall,
Ely, Nevada, at two. o'clock p. m ., for the purpose of dedicating an open
air Lodge room on Point Mourit Lebanon, fourteen miles .southeast of
Ely. After the Grand Lodge was opened we proceeded to the open
air Lodge room in automobiles. The · Forest Service had built a road:
to within a hundred yards of the Lodge room. After our arrival there
the Grand Lodge was convened and the Lodge room dedicated in due
and ancient form. This Lodge room is very unique, on the very tip·
of a beautiful mountain. A rock and concrete Altar was built in the
center with a bronze inscription giving the date. After the dedication
ceremonies a very fine luncheon was served in the picnic grounds. The·
members of Ely Lodge are to be congratulated upon this splendid undertaking ; they will enjoy many happy meetings on this wonderful spot."
We read recently of a Grand Master who dedicated an undertaker' s

769

Iowa, 194-0 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Committee on Grand Lodge Library submitted a recommen.,dation:
The Grand Lodge does not possess, at the present time, a complete
set of pictures of former Grand Masters. We find on investigation that
a suitable frame and uniform reproductions of photographs can be
obtained at a cost not to exceed $250.00 and we respectfully recommend
that the Grand Lodge Library Committe.e be authorized to obtain such
frame and uniform photographs and that an appropriation of the above
amount be made for that purpose.
That should be fine. Iowa has such a collection running back nearly
one hundred years. Considering what was "formerly available in the way
of .pictures, it makes quite a chamber of horrors. I have often wondered
why our prehistoric Grand Masters looked so dour and forbidding.
Iowa, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
They have a Committee on Art which is accumulating portraits of
Past Grand Masters. Three were presented with laudatory biographical
sketches. Let it be hoped that when their collection is complete these
individual portraits will be worthy to be called art. They should see the
double line of enlarged photographs in the Iowa Masonic Library which
constitute a veritable chamber of horrors.
Kentucky, 1939 (Grand Master):
Kentucky has adopted a plan of superv1s10n under the name of "Key
Men" which corresponds in its purpose to that of our own District
Deputy .Grand Masters. The Grand Master speaking of the duties of
these "Key Men," said :
"The Key Man is the personal representative of the Grand Master
in the district over which he presides, and he is a source of wisdom
and a fount of inspiration for all Masonic activities within his district.
It is his duty to visit all Lodges in his district, to encourage and to
strengthen the brethren to greater heights of endeavor, and at the end
of the year to make a report of his stewardship to the Grand Master."
Louisiana, 1940 (Grand Master):
A Secretary of a Lodge asked Grand Master if it would be un -Masonic
to place on meeting notices, "Secure your poll. tax and register." Grand
Master "replied: "I see no objection to reminding ·your members as requested. Such action is only a civic duty and has no reference to partisan politics. Request granted."
Massachusetts, 1940 (Grand Master)·:
I invite the serious consideration of the Craft to the advisability of
organizing a Masonic Senate of North America to consist of the strongest
available representatives from each Grand Lodge in North America to
meet at least annually, and more frequently by committees, to consider
all matters affecting Freemasonry, but without power to take any action
binding upon any Masonic body. If each Grand Lodge were to select
-4.!S its Senators, say two of its wisest, strongest Masonic statesmen to
serve for a reasonably long term, with or without the right to stand for

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

reelection for successive ' terms, there would be a continuing body of
men whose considered judgments could do much to mould and direct
Masonic thought. This would supplement, but not supplant, the present
conferences of Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries, the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, and the Masonic Service
Association.
Such a body could do much to win the battle for existence . that
M:lsonry may well be facing here as it has already had to do elsewhere.
It might help to solve some of the problems arising out of the relationships between Symbolic Freemasonry and the collateral bodies. Perhaps
only such an organization could solve some of the pro~lems .arising. out
of the Masonic publications, both official and commercial, so we might
profit by their admitted benefits without sustaining their occasional detriments.
Such a body might eliminate some of the misunderstandings between
Freemasonry and other agencies which likewise seek to benefit mankind.
Perhaps, in spite of the bitter· and unjust attacks on Masonry that are
prompted, or at least tolerated, by some members of the Roman Catholic
hierarchy, such a Senate might make it clear that Masonry seeks no
controversy with that or any other church, but that, on the contrary,
we have a great many objectives in common with each other.
Many questions of interjurisdictional comity and interests and of
general ideals and policies could profit from statesmanlike study .bY a
body of men broad in outlook, wise in experience, lofty in vision, and
sound in judgment, commanding respect but not exerting any official
authority. Such a body would be a unifying force between geographical
interests, between the fifty-eight Grand Lodges of North America, between
the several branches of Freemasonry, and between Freemasonry and
all other institutions of good will. It should do much to hold aloft the
torch of Freemasonry and of civilization in their years of supreme testing.
If the immediate creation of such a Senate seems too costly or
· elaborate for a first step, a less pr'etentious experiment, to be expanded
or abandoned in the light of subsequent experience, might be the creation
of a Masonic Cabinet for North America, composed of a smaller number
of members from regional districts, or even a series of Regional Cabinets.
The more technical aspects of the matter-size, basis of representation,
tenure of office and all similar matters, should be determined not by
the proposer of the plan but by some genuinely representative body.
The chief concern is that by this, or some better means, there should
be a workable instrumentality for mobilizing and unifying our Masonic
contribution toward the welfare of mankind in these critical days.

their methods, but apparently not so. Read this list of presentations
at the Grand Lodge of Kentucky: Past Grand Master's apron and
apron case; Past Grand Master's button; Past Grand Master's jewel;
four baskets of flowers; Hamilton watch; silver service; watch chain
and charm; four silver goblets; traveling case with suit of clothes; telegrams and more baskets of flowers.

770

Michigan, 1940 (Grand Master):
Francis B. Lambie ope·ned the Ninety-sixth Annual Communication
without the assistance of the Kansas Representative, but · with a splendid
·and enthusiastic Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master avoided any reversals on his decisions by referring
all of them to the Jurisprudence Committee .as they presented themselves
during the year. One new Logge was dedicated and Norway and Sweden
were recognized and representatives exchanged. Action was taken authorizing the formation of Memorial Lodges for the sole purpose of conducting Masonic funerals of deceased sojourners.
Missouri, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We were of the opinion that the Eastern Star had a copyright on

771

New Hampshire, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
A motion was adopted providing that the Grand Master be requested
to submit a draft of his annual Report to the Grand Secretary· at least
ten days before the annual communication and that it must be referred
to the Committee on the Doings of Grand Officers at least seven days
before said meeting; this to. facilitate the work of Grand Lodge and
so that matters in such report may have proper thought before being
acted upon.
New York, 1940 (Grand Master):
In my 1939 address to Grand Lodge, I described the character and
function of my Council, and I shall not repeat. The same brethren
met regularly with me again during my second year, reporting conditions and activities in their various departments, discussing matters
which I presented for their consideration and giving me the advantage
, of their ideas. They willingly expressed their opinions, whether coincid- ·
ing or at variance with my own, with unrestrained candor, not to say
fervor, and much ,could be said for the quality and vitality of any idea
which successfully ran the gauntlet of their inspection ·and dissection.
Their fine spirit and hearty interest and participation in the work encouraged, ple3Sed and benefited me beyond my power of description,
and I shall. always recall them with the warmest fondness ..
Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Formerly it was customary to spend $1,500.00 for a jewel for the
retiring Grand Master. Of late years, however, this sum has been cut
to a mere $1,000.00. This ·reduction in the amount paid plus the rise
in the cost of gold during the New Deal era should make the present
recipients loathe to exhibit their jewel in the presence of those who
possess the more costly ones. To our way of thinking the expenditure
of such a sum of money for a ·mere bauble, the intrinsic value of which
is but a fraction of its cost, is an extravagant waste of money that
could be used for the purpose of relieving human suffering and want.
Oregon, 1940 (Grand Master):
Some reports of violation reaching him, he severely reprobated any
deviation from the ritual.
His conclusion carries his thanks to all who have aided him and
with laudable ambition says:
•
"In closing may I suggest that I ani not going to accept literally
the word 'past' which will soon be added to my title. It does not
necessarily mean what it implies. I hope, brethren, that occasionally
you will give me something I can do. We would prefer to labor to the end."
He need not worry. There is always one fitting use for Past Grand
Masters-they fill up the platform background at annual meetings.
Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
In his message the Grand Master did not yield to temptation ·and
follow in the footsteps of · numerous others and tell what he thought

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

was wrong with the world and that Masonry is the only stabilizing
influence that can save the world from chaos. Rather he states that
history reveals that every generation passed through a "critical period,"
and that the world today is suffering from the same contending forces
that have plagued humanity in all ages: liberty against democracyindividual rights against centralized authority and right against wrong.
Masonry, he states, has always fought, with many other allies, for
liberty and justice. He is of the opinion that the battle will be neither
lost or won, that it will be continuing struggle and that our responsibility
is to pass on to the next generation a strong vigorous Masonry capable
of maintaining its sector of the battle line.

We like that Grand Master. In these days when men who want the
honors, but not the labor and responsibility of Masonic official service
are as numerous · as jack rabbits in the sagebrush flats, the Doctrine
preached and practiced by the Grand Master Rose is most refreshing.

Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
"Contumacy" means stubborness, inflexibility, haughtiness, perseverance, or obstinateness. In other words, pure cussedness. Under this
heading the Grand Master calls attention to the lack of cooperation on
the part of Lodges and individuals with the Grand Lodge officers. The
ignoring of communications and, at times, if answered, done so in an
insolent, fault-finding and defiant manner. The Grand Master states
"that all such instances of contumacious failure to comply with the Grand
Lodge regulations and requirements should be referred to the incoming
Grand Master and proper disciplining measures taken, to the end that
the requirements and regulations of the Grand Lodge may not be set
aside or 'flouted."
No doubt the incoming Grand Master was elated over the beautiful
legacy left him by the present incumbent. The thing that puzzles this
writer is that if these violations were so flagrant, why did ncit the Grand
Master pin the offende,s' ears back himsel~ and not leave it to his
successor. No new regulations were incorporated in the law to enable
his successor to handle this situation, so no doubt they already exist in
sufficient force to have enabled him to demonstrate to the offenders the
supremacy of the Grand Lodge. Evading an issue or simply "passing
the buck" to those · who follow, does not, in our opinion constitute true
leadership.

'
Washington,
1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
On the subject, "Grand Masters' Conferences," he intimates that the
Conference held in Washington, D. C., lacked tolerance. He quotes
from an unnamed Grand Master as follows:
"There are 49 Grand Masters, each of whom has his own ideas as
to how things should be done, and I doubt whether any one of them
would concede that the other was right."
This isolated statement does not reflect the unanimity of fundamental purpose that has always actuated the Grand Masters' Conference in Washington, D. C. Often difference of opinions arise, but
every question is met frankly with open, friendly discussion and never
has there appeared bitterness or evidence of intolerance.

772

Pennsylvania, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
"I ask for the prayers of all members and rely 1,1pon the support of
the Great Architect of the Universe to continue to bless ns in all our
undertakings and that all our doings during the coming year may redound
to his Holy Name."
And the next thing he did was to appoint twenty Grand Chaplains!
Texas, 1939 (Grand Master):
There is something in the soii or climate of Texas which breeds
orators and this is amply evidenced by the address of the Grand Master,
the only . weakness of which is its length, forty-four pages of the proceedings being devoted to it.
Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
He boasted of using no proxies. He believed it to be the business
of the Grand Master to perform personally the functions of his office.
He admitted having been "a somewhat jealous Grand Master." He
didn't want . fo see another wear his mantle while he occupied the
Grand East. Often at· great inconvenience he had done what a proxy
could have done with ease. He felt that he shoul 1 not have accepted
this elevation if he was not prepared to make the 1acrifice. Say! Say!

773

Washington, (1939) Grand Master:
And then, surveying the flood of suggestions as to changes in the
Constitution, he added these words of matured wisdom:
"Every time a law is passed in this Grand Lodge restrictive of the
operations of a Lodge, you are doing your utmost in the Grand Lodge
to frustrate the original principles of Masonry. Let me caution you,
brethren."

West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
By direction of Grand Lodge of Illinois in 1938 a committee was
appointed to procure new collars and jewels for the Grand Lodge,
which it dki. The Grand Master and his Grand Officers wore them for
the first time at the communication under review and found them so
beautiful that they evidently rejoiced with an exceeding great joy over
the higher regions of their respective anatomies. But below their equators
the view was inartistic owing to the age of the aprons and the consequent ravages. Therefore, aprons to match the collars and jewels
were requested.
Wisconsin, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
It is refreshing to hear a Grand Master speak in this vein. There
is a tendency for Masonic orators to ascribe to Masonry the duty and
ability to cure all social and political ills and to urge Masonry to gird
on the armor of righteousness and smite all enemies of democracy.
The simple fact is that the most we can do as an institution is to call
attention to the evils with which we are s.urrounded and do our best
to make our members 'better men and citizens and trust to them to do
their part as individuals.
GRAND LODGE HISTORY
Colorado, 1939 (Grand Master):
The Committee on History has had prepared a History of the
Grand Lodge and for three successive years were denied the authority
to publish it because "funds were lacking." We can sympathize with the
committee when it recommended "that either the publication be ordered
,,, or the committee discharged." The Finance Committee unfortunately
recommended that the appropriation be refused and the committee discharged. Such gracious recognition of work well done!

PROCEEDINGS ·OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Colorado, 1940 (Grand Master):
Consider the wail, rightfully woeful, issuing from the Committee on
History pointing out that for "the past three years" it had been ready
to go to press with a history approximating 350 pages, but had been
annually fubbed off with the peter-grievous cry that funds were lacking.
The committee felt that the approximation could be printed and published at the cost of $3,000, and that most if not all of this trifle would
be returned by th,e sale of the approximation in five years. The committee seemed to feel that Othello's occupation was gone, with the manuscript of the volume suspended, like Mohammed's coffin, jl.nd therefore
asked that it-to wit, the committee-be discharged.. The Committee on
Finance, to which the report was referred, pointed out that the original
appropriation asked for was only two-thirds the size of the later one,
and in view of the times being out of joint and the re-articulation of the
times at present doubtful, and that there' was no pressing urgency for
immediate publication; etc., recommended that the appropriation sought
be disapproved, and the committee discharged with the gratitude and
thanks of Grand Lodge. And it was so. It is curious how most of us
yearn for Masonic histories, and squelch the yearn when the ghost is
required to walk.

become lost. I would recommend that, wherever possible, accommodation
should be provided in. the Masonic Hall building for the safe keeping of
Lodge records, which should not be allowed to remain indefinitely in the
Secretary's private residence. Many cases have occurred elsewher.e, in which
valuable Lodge records have been lost through inadvertence, owing to their
being left in the private residences· of Secretaries, and I would ask Masters
of Lodges to guard against the possibility of similar losses in this District.

774

Ohio, 1940 (Grand Master):
All who are familiar with the three-volume history of our Grand
Lodge must realize its worth. Each year Grand Lodge history is being
made, and while we have our proceedings from year to year, yet it seems
to me that we should have our history in perhaps a more concise form.
Our present history brings the development of our · Grand Lodge up to
and including the year 1912. This leaves .an interval of twenty-eight
years, and I do not believe more time than this should .elapse in order
to properly record the many historical important events that ·have transpired during that length of time. I am, therefore, recommending that
our Historian be authorized and instructed to prepare a fourth volume,
and that after it is rea,dy for distribution, one copy be sent to each of
our subordinate Lodges. I am further recommending that an appropriation ·o f such funds as are necessary, but not to exceed $2,500, be
made for the preparing of this history, printing, and distribution.
GRAND LODGE RECORDS
Maine, 1940 (Grand Master):
Visitations to two Lodges disclosed that the Charters we.re not kept
in safe places. One Charter in particular, bearing· the signature of Most
Worshipful Josiah H. Drummond, was found after long search in the
pedestal of the Master's station, in an opening down through the floor.
The officers of that Lodge were ordered to procure a Charter of Certificate and to put the original Charter in a vault for safe keeping. They
gladly complied with the order.
Some of the Lodges keep their original· Charters in the desk drawer
of the Secretary, a custom which should be done away with at once.
N. China, 1938 (Grand Lodge E . C.):
In compiling the new volume I had· the privilege of examining a large
nutnber of Lodge Minute books, and I would again impress upon the
Masters of Lodges the importance of seeing that these records are kept
accurate and complete. It is a mistake to make the minutes too brief and
formal, for thereby many items of historical interest to future generations

775

Philippine Islands, 1940 (Grand Master):
Edict No. 27: Submitting copies of petitions for Degrees and Affiliations
to the office of Grand Secretary.
Whereas, in the archives of the Grand Lodge there are no true copies
or d\.iplicates of petitions for degrees and affiliations;
Whereas·, some Lodges have lost the original of these petitions because
of fire or forces beyond control;
Whereas, there have been instances when interested parties could not
be given information which could only be obtained from said petitions;
Whereas, it would redound to the benefit of the fraternity were the
Grand Secretary furnished for future reference, copies or duplicates of
petitions for degrees and affiliations;
Now, therefore, by virtue of. the power and authority -in me vested as
Grand Master of Masons of the Philippines, I do hereby' decree-That, hereafter, alt Secretaries of Lodges under the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Philippine Islands, submit to the Grand Secretary, together with the monthly reports, true copies
or duplicates of petitions ~or degrees and affiliations presented to the Lodge;
. That, with ' respect to petitions "[hich have already been presented, t he
submission of the duplicates or copies should be made as soon as the Secretary ot the Lodge could do it, however, ·if it would entail much ti~e for the
submission of these duplicates ot copies, the Secretaries may from time fo
time, submit the duplicates or copies to the Grand Secretary until a complete record of the petitions presented to the Lodge shall have been filed.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Grand L6dge this 17th day of
May A. L. 5940; A. D. 1940.
GRAND ORATORS
Iowa, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The annual address of Grand Orator Marcus J. Ware, like a bride's
dress, had " something new and something old": valid h'istory, invalid
tradition, fantastic romance and the usual shopworn moral conclusion$.
Past Grand Master Percy Jones, as Chairm~n of the Committee on
.Foreign Correspondence, presented a report limited to ten printed pages.
The limitation cramps his style. In an effort to cover as much ground as
possibl~- he mixes the topical and individual plans with results not so
good. He is too good a reviewer to hand!cap with false economy. .
Kansas, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We note from the committee report that in 1932 the George Washington
National Memorial was well under way on the 150th anniversary of the birth
of Brother Washington. Some one's history must be about fifty years
mistaken. They also reported four million dollars spent and five hundred
thousand dollars still needed for thrs memorial. We note that the Grand
Orator· had our ancient brother guarded against the approach of canons

776

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and eavesdroppers and. he also pictures Noah as delivering to his forebears
the great truths of one God, etc. We were not sure about the canons, as to
whether they meant priests or guns and while we have heard that the boy
is father of the man, this Grand Orator went one step farther and had Noah
instructing his parents, grandparents and other ancestors. There was a nice
review of Kansas.

The same Arctic temperature is experienced in the Jurisprudence Committee's comment, "We do not approve Recommendation No. 3." " Squelchers,''
said a Cockney orator in London, "Squelchers is squelchers and can urt."
As a frantic believer in no public installations, and no joint ones, I rejoice
in the "'urt."
·
'

Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Grand Orator Frederic A. Shaffer delivered a fine address on the subject
of the year. We have often wondered during this year what the Orator
would have talked about if the dictators in Europe had all been gentlemen.

MASONS AT SIGHT
North Carolina, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
On the frequently discussed "Mason at Sight" matter he comments
as follows :

West Australia. 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
As a rule Grand Orators who enable their Grand Masters to observe
vicariously the ancient custom of delivering what was called in accordance
with that custom a "harangue,'' take themselves very seriously, and their
discourses, as Scots folk would style them, are frequently most fascinating.
At the Annual · Communication under review, the Grand Orator, Brother
A. G. Gainey, tried what is often a double fascination of brevity and humorous stories in addition to thought. There were almost three pages of stories,
after which the speaker indulged in statistics relating to taxation, work,
and so forth, and the announcement that "we," namely, America (which
was named) , have "the highest standard of living of any civilized people
that history has ever known.': This the speaker seemed to diagnose as a
disease, as he announced "there is a remedy. We are the richest people
in the world. We are the most intelligent people in the world. We are the
brains of the world." Possibly, allusion was there made to what one 'can
hear any day in any city in any State in the Union. That remedy lay with
the voters in the Union, the most intelligent, 'patriotic and devoted of whom
were in the Masonic Lodges. He urged the brethren to study the problems
relating to the country, and to do so in such a way as to benefit it. In its
way, the oration was a good one, if somewhat unusual.

"Then came some decisions or official opinions; Number Two of these
was i\itended to help a much-puzzled Iowa City Master. There came to
him a Mason who had been made a Mason at sight in another Grand Jurisdiction, and who wanted to be affiliated with an Iowa City Lodge. Iowa
does not have any truck with any 'at sight' business; so what? He rules
that the Lodge has not any worry about that : if he is a Master Mason
duly certified as such from a Grand Lodge recognized as regular by Iowa,
and presents the proper papers, they can affiliate him and have nothing
to do with how he got raised."

INSTALLATIONS
Western Australia, 1940:
Among various matters dealt with by the Committee on General
Policy was that of joint installations. These, the committee felt, were proper
in some localities and served some useful purpose. Grand Lodge agreed that
they be not discontinued. When it came to the other form of Masonic
nightmare, namely, the public installation, the committee was "agin it;"
and said so in Masonic language, Grand Lodge, however, was not disposed
to tell the Nightmare to seek fresh fields and pastures new, with the result
that she is about, whenever wanted. There is an old Manx proverb which
says that "Custom must be indulged with custom, lest custom should weep.''
Apparently, Arizona has no desire to witness that conservative old dame,
Custom, dissolving, Niobe-like, in a fountain of tears.
Western Australia, 1940 (Chairman Correspondence Committee):
But, while a Finance Committee in Nebraska may be thus prepared
to launch out for regalia, a Jurisprudence Committee in that jurisdiction
is not prepared to launch out in "a suitable and uniform procedure for the
holding of· public installation of officers or Joint installations with Eastern
Star chapters." It is related of Queen Victoria that when a famous admiral
sought to entertain her with a popular comic song as innocent as Doctor
Isaac Watts' hymns, Her Majesty chillingly observed, "We are not amused."

777

.

Rhode Island, 1940 (Grand Master):
On November 3, 1939, your Grand. Master received a petition signed
by eight prominent members of this Grand Lodge requesting him to exercise
his prerogative and make a Mason "At Sight." Your Grand Master gave
much time and thought to this request before refusing to grant the petition.
There was never any doubt in hi,s mind as to the genuine worthiness of the
nationally known candidate proposed, hence attention was especially directed
to· the controversial point at issue-the . wisdom of exercising the right of a
Grand Master to make a Mason "At Sight.''
When eighty-four predecessors in the office of Gran~ Master have been
unanimous in their failure to exercise a right which was definitely theirs,
the wisdom of its exercise by the eighty-fifth Grand Master in this Grand
Jurisdiction becomes all the more controversial. This controversial feature
is further magnified if the candidate proposed, as in the request which was
presented to me, is not a resident of this Grand Jurisdiction, never has been
a resident, and has expressed no intention of becoming a resident in the
immediate or even the distant future.
Extensive study of the question convinced me that the practice of
making a Mason "At . Sight" never has been common in any of the 49
Grand Jurisdictions of these United States. Moreover, the practice seems
to be growing still less and less common as time goes on. Doubtless there
is less and less necessity for it. The very fact that so . few "Makings At
Sigh~ have been found necessary in so many years of American Masonry
· is conclusive evidence that there is seldom any need for it which cannot be
overcome. In denying the request, I did not feel justified in starting a
practice in this Grand Jurisdiction which is either positively prohibited
or is definitely controversial in all other Grand Jurisdictions-a practice
in growing disfavor-a practice which in effect denies to the member of a
Lodge the privilege of exercising one of the inalienable rights of Masonrythe right to ballot upon the worthiness of a petitioner.
West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
In accordance with his announced intention, the Grand Master of
Pennsylvania exercised his prerogative of making a Mason at sight of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mr. Ralph Dorn Hetzel, Professor of Pennsylvania State College, upon ·
whom the three degrees were conferred.
I remember when the great outcry was heard at the proposal in an
American Grand Lodge to make President Taft, of the United States,
a Mason at sight, it was stated in one of the dissentient Masonic magazines that the "prerogative" was a mere piece of "official hocus-pocusconjilrocus," adopting the comic speel of the "pea-under-the-thimble"
man to express his horrified feelings . As a Mason who went through
all the trials and probations of the three degrees in three different unpleasant atmospheres of three different stuffy nights, I prefer to see my newlyinitiated brethren made to undergo similar experiences. But there was
no " hocus-pocus" etc., about the three degrees conferred upon Professor
Hetzel. The degrees were conferred each in its own Lodge, the acting
Worshipful Master in the First being the Senior Grand Warden; in the
Second, the Assistant Instructor of the Work; and in the Third by a
District Deputy Grand Master. And in each degree the acting Masters
were assis ted by a full team of officers such as would take part in ·a ny
ordinary degree ceremonial. Probably, the ceremonies were to some
extent abbreviated, as to subject a candidate to the full three ceremonies,
representing a much greater consumption of time than ours do, would
be an ordeal which should call for the intervention of a Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Intending Masons.

as Mayor more than a hundred malcontents, led by two or three Reds,
came before the City Commission demanding certain things, one of which
was that the city should step in and say to the landlords of the city that
if people could not pay rent they could not be put out. Other similar
demands were made. And now listen to this statement :
"The man who led that mob, if you would call it a mob, was a man
whose club-footed child had been treated in a Masonic hospital; his feet
had been restored to .normal usefulness and yet, that man shortly after
his child returned from that hospital was so derogatory in his statements
con.c erning Masonry, was so . vile in his expressions concerning Masons,
that one good brother called him 'outside and came pretty near beating
him to death, which was a good thing."

778

MISCELLANEOUS
Arizona, 1940 (Grand Master):
"There is no denying the fact that our fraternity is ·at a low ebb,
and it must be our task to find out what is . wrong and correct the situation. We cannot justly blame the depression, since men will do and pay
for the things they enjoy and find profitable, and no Mason need lose
his membership because of financial embarrassment.
"I have emphasized in my Lodge addresses my conviction that the
only remedy is to make Masonic membership so enjoyable, stimulating,
instructive, and profitable that membership will be valued. I believe that
we must direct our efforts largely toward that end if our Order is again
to become as great, influential, and powerful as it once was and should be."
British Columbia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Comll}ittee):
Referring to the visit to Ontario of the delegation from Great Britain,
we find the following:
.
"The Deputy Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England
read a message from H. R. H . the Duke of Connaught. This was followed
by the singing of the national anthem of Canada, 'My Country, 'tis of
Thee'."
'
Louisiana, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
He· also reports some interesting facts: That by law in Venezuela,
all the postage needed on a letter is the seal of the Grand Lodge and for
foreign mails a special Masonic stamp; that in Mexico, Masons of the
York Grand Lodge and Grande Lodge, Valede, Mexico, may not sit in
each other's Lodges, but both may join the Commanderies or Consistories;
that a book published in 1526 was recently found in London containing
the word "Freemason."
Missouri, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
He told the Grand Lodge on the night he was inducted into office

779

Nebraska, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Nebraska opens with a splendid photograph of that distinguished
soldier and Mason, General John J. Pershing, who, on January 5, 1939,
in the quiet seclusion of his hotel in Tucson, Arizona, was presented a
badge indicative of his fifty years of membership in the Masonic fraternity.
The presentation was made by Past Grand Master Henry H. Wilson,
himself a holder of a like decoration, and who, in December, 1888, as
Worshipful Master of Lincoln Lodge, No. 19, raised Brother Pershing
to the Sublime Degree. Truly a marvelous experience : making a man
a Mason, seeing him through the years achieve the distinction which has
come to this outstanding soldier, and, fifty years later, to crown the
Masonic experience with such a ceremony.
Nebraska, 1941:
Brother General John J. Pershing has won infernational honor and
fame by his meritorious achievements as soldier and citizen. He was
~ommissioned General of the United States Army on October 6, 1917,
the fourth General to be so commissioned by the United States Government.
I have a letter that was sent to the Grand Master from Nebraska's
most distinguished Mason so far as the world is concerned, General John
J. Pershing, dated May 13, ·1941.
JOHN J . PERSHING
May 13, 1941.
Washington
" Mr. Earl J. Lee, Grand Master,
Grand Lodge, A. F. & A. M . of Nebraska,
Fremont, Nebraska.
My . dear Mr. Lee:
Please accept my warmest thanks for the greetings conveyed to me
in your letter of April 28th and for your invit~tion to attend the 84th
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Nebraska on June 3rd
and 4th next. I deeply appreciate your thought of me.
It would give me real pleasure to meet with the Masons of Nebraska
on this occasion, and I am very sorry to say that it will be impossible.
My health permitting, I am committed to attend the fifty-fifth anniversary
reunion of iny class at West Point on June 10th, and a trip west only a
week before would impose quite too great a tax upon my strength.
Will you please express to all attending the. Communication my cordial greetings and my regret that I cannot be with them, and believe me,
with kindest personal regards,
Sincer.ely yours,
JOHN J . PERSHING."

780

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

North Dakota, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee) :
For unadulterated gall, the following from the Grand Master's address
is about the limit. We thought things had gone pretty far when a negro
Lodge in Texas asked for a copy of the Grand Lodge manual, but in
that case it came from a body that is kindly tolerated, in this instance
from one whose every teaching is inimical to all that Masonry stands
for. We quote:
"A request was made at our Grand Secretary's office for the use of
this auditorium for a memorial service by the Young Communists League.
You well know how quickly this was refused by our Grand Secretary."
South Dakota, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
This Grand Lodge conducts and sponsors "A High School Oratorical
Contest" and this year two hundred and thirteen schools, and nearly
one th9usand high school students participated in the contest.
Tennessee, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
A certain group calling themselves the "Association of Men with
Wings" requested cooperation of the Grand Lodge in distrib~ting petitions
to all of the Lodges, looking toward the return of the original Wright
Brothers airplane from England to the United States, and the correcting
of the records of the Smithsonian Institution relating to recognition of the
Wright Brothers. Permission was refused on the grounds that although
it was a patriotic and laudable undertaking, yet it was not true Masonic
work and might set a bad precedent.
Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The property of a constituent Lodge was ·assessed and taxes collected.
The Lodge sued to recover. The Circuit Court rendered an adverse
decision and the Lodge appealed to the State Supreme Court which reversed the decision of the lower court, holding that Masonic property
m Alabama is not subject to taxation. Following is this decision and it
is given place here as showing. the grounds on which it was based and
not because of any general application-another reason may also appear ·
"By virtue of the acts of 1859 and 1875, referred to; a contract exists
between the Masonic Lodges of Alabama and the State, entered into
under constitutional provisions then in effect, it was held, and that contract cannot be abrogated without their consent. In the case under
consideration, it was ruled, the right of exemption is a vested one on
contractual nature, and is protected from impairment by both State and
Federal constitutions."
.
What a contract something besides a mere· "piece of paper" that
may be ignored at will by one party to the agreement? Why! 'Why!
Why! Are we on thin ice here? If so, so be it! In any event, we are grateful to th e Craft in Alabama fvr reminding us in this instance of what once
was referred to, and regarded, "as the sacredness of a contract !"
Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Committee on Lodge Reports found that the fifteen Lodges that
had repor~ed to date of the. committee r.e port were spending for operating
expenses m excess of their revenue, and the committee stated further
" * * * t?at a large majority of our Lodges spend more than they receive
for running expenses. If a business did this for the period covered it
would shortly go into receivership or close up entirely," said the committee.
The spending frenzy appears to have reached Masonic org~nizations

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

781

and to have made members oblivious to the stern fact that such conditions cannot continue without dire results following: Rhode Island is
far from being alone in this respect. If we were not fearful of being
accused of ringing in politics, from which may the stars defend us, we
might indirectly or somehow, refer to the ravages, on a national scale,
of this madness I
Victoria, 1938 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee) :
Another contentious matter which took up considerable time was a
proposition to permit the Grand Master to issue a dispensation to any
person, even though he were totally blind, to receive the degrees. In the
course of the discussion it was brought out that there is a Lodge in
England called "Lux in Tenebris," the membership of which is composed
entirely of persons who are blind. Incidentally the name means "light
in darkness." The measure before the Grand Lodge of Victoria was
.passed. It is difficult to understand how a person who is totally blind
can conform to and impart the essentials of Masonry.
Washington, 1940 ( Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
He ruled that "it is entirely improper a~d un-Masonic for a Lodge
to set up a fund on its books for the purpose of making loans to prospective
candidates who did not have sufficient funds to pay the initiation fee
• at the time they presented their petition."
West Virginia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Brother Collins, of South Carolina, '(\'ill you pardon us for your suggestion as to the so long established custom of singing "How Firm a
Foundation Ye Saints of the Lord," that you refer. to the life of Robert
E. ·Lee, by Freeman, for his account of the circumstances under which
that hymn was sung by the General's comrades who were gathered from
sundry states after the funeral service upon the hill-side. Also that as
reported ' last October, Georgia has departed from those long years stand~
ing custom.
Wisconsin, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Among the "goofy" requests which come to Grand Masters the world
over was one to the Grand Master of Washington requesting him to
sanction the circulation of a petition among the Lodges to the Smithsonian
Institution asking it to change its ruling upon who first developed an airplane that would carry a human being aloft. He refused the request.
Their Masonic Code was revised to permit Lodges to elect, as one
of their officers, a physician. It is not clear just what the duties of such
an office would be, nor is the necessity for it stated, so you will have to
use your imagination.
·
We agree whole-heartedly with all the Grand Master has said, but
we have searched the reports in vain for some sure-fire method of injecting the virus which will bring about a revival of interest on the part
of the rank and file of Masons. Something is wrong! Is it the continually
in"creasing number of appendant bodies, or have the automobile, radio,
movies, service clubs and other forms of amusements given us too keen
competition? The same philosophy which held our fathers' interest in
Masonry is still taught iri th e same words, the same ceremonies are being
practiced year after year, yet we fail to make real Masons of our initiates.
If one's heart is in Masonry he will find time to attend our meetings
and · to take part in our activities. There is nothing to be gained by saying
that Masonry is the grandest fraternity. ever conceived by the brain of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

man; that in its teachings rests the hope of Democracy;· something must
be dorie. to "put more Masonry into men," not ·more "men into Masonry."
Masonry is looking for a new Moses to lead us out of the wilderness
of indifference.
· Alberta had a special committee on revision of ancient York Rite
work. The Grand Lodge once worked under two rituals known as the
Canadian and York work. In 1911, a Canadian Rite ritual was adopted.
Now the brethren are clamoring for revision, although not desiring innovation. Investigating the ritual matter it was discovered that Alberta
requires three and onechalf hours to put on the Master Mason degree.
The new ritual, as revised, was adopted. ·

The newspaper stated in . their· article, that the Masonic Order wanted
the Masons to put these stickers on packages, letters and statements,
sent out to the public and that part of the returns from the sak of the
stickers would. go to the Masonic Home and the rest be used for local
charitable purposes.
Happily, the officers of the Star Chapter, when advised of their unorthodox acts, were .cooperative in calling the scheme off.

782

OFFICERS ·
British .Columbia, 1940 · (Chair m an, Correspondence Committee):
The Committee on Jurisprudence of Ohio recommended "the Grand
Lodge to adopt. a clause dealing with applicants who make or sell intoxicating liquors." We have sometimes wondered why these temperance
enthusiasts do not devote .some attention to the users of intoxicants,
without whom there would be very little inducement to manufacture them.
The Grand Master made a ruling that
1 "To engage in the selling of intoxicating liquors, to be ·drunk upon
the premises where sold, shall subject the brother so offending to charges
and expulsion; it shall be a disqualification for initiation or affiliation
in any Masonic Lodge."
In our opinion we have a much better method in Briti.sh Columbia.
British Columbia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee ):
The Committee on the Condition of Masonry in Canada referred
to a tendency in some Lodges to omit the customary respectful manner
in which a br9ther should be addressed. This is, we think, an importation,
and an undesirable one, which should be checked at once. The paragraph
is rather long but is worth attention, so we copy it:
"We may belong to the old school of thought, but we d·e plore the
modern tendency, already creeping into some of our Lodges, of the officers
dispensing with the proper Masonic title~ and addressing each other as
'Bill' or 'Brother Bill' or 'Worshipful Broth·e r Bill.' Your committee are
not slaves to formality but we submit that such terms are not in keeping
with the clignity of our institution. Then, too, such expressions as 'Okay,'
'Church parades,' 'degree teams,' 'side benchers,' are rather jarring to
one's sensibilities and might well be omitted from our Masonic vocabulary.
When or where the term 'Ruling Master' originated, we do not know.
At any rate we do not find it in the Constitution, but surely the climax
in this regard has been reachi;d when we hear the Worshipful Master
referred to as the 'Sitting Master.' Perhaps the only justification for ·this
latter term lies in the fact that some W ·o rs.h.i pful Master'!: remain 'sitting'
when the Lodges have been raised to received distinguished visitors."
Florida, 1~39 (Grand Master) :
A Chapter of the 0. E . S., in their zeal to accomplish something for
the good of John Q. Public, and .·possibly o.b tain a little advertising for
themselves, put on a "Save -a Life--Drive Carefully" program and the
newspapers heralded it with the heading, "Safety Drive Sponsored by
Star Chapter." The scheme called for the sale of stickers which were it
was acertained, handled by another party on a 50 per cent commissi~n.

783

· Iowa, 1939 (Chair m an, Correspondence Committee) :
On the liquor question he recommended an amendment to the Code
(it was later adopted) reading as follows:
"To engage in the selling
intoxicating liquors to be drunk upon
the premises where sold, shall subject a brother so offending to charges
and expulsion ; it shall also be a disqualification for initiation or affiliation
in any Masonic Lodge."
Again a glass of beer on a restaurant table loses to a case in the .cellar .

°'

Illinois, 1940 ( Grand Master):
On behalf of the Grand Lodge of Illinois it is my desire to clarify
the erroneous impression existent among the brethren of our jurisdiction,
relative to picnics, golf, bowling, baseball, and other modes of amusement, held under the auspices of a Masonic Lodge on Sunday.
'
Be it hereby known to all Lodges under the j urisdiction of The Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Illinois that such procedure, as herein above
stated, is in violation of the by-laws of the Grand Lodge, in that the bylaws specifically prohibit the convening of a Lodge on Sunday, unless
convened for the purpose of a Masonic funeral, and any artifice or subterfuge resorted to thereof, or fraudulent practice, will bring the Lodge
into serious controversy with the office of Grand Master.
Incidentally, the holding of athletic contests -in the form of boxing
bouts and· wrestling matc~s within the premises of a meeting place of
a Masonic Lodge is also prohibited.

. .

I ndiana, 1940 ( Grand Master):
.During the year, our Lodges in this and other Grand jurisdictions
were solicited for contributions by an organization representing itself as
"The American Committee for Aid to British Medical Societies." This
was called to the attention of the United Grand Lodge of England, by
whom it was immediately repudiated, and it was requested that the Lodges
in America be notified that such a course was taken without authority
and was entirely opposed to the policy of Freemasonry in E ngland.
1 Many of these organizations are fraudulent and it is difficult to
know which are, and which are not. Therefore, it · is my. suggestion ~hat
no attention be paid to such requests by our Lodges unless authonze.d
by our own ~rand Lodge.
Kansas, 1940 ( Grand Master ) :
Under the heading "Trials and Punishmen.ts," Grand Master Claud
F. Young says:
Our system of handling matters of discipline has certainly gotten
out o( bounds. Civil procedure has nearly superseded the former process
of fact finding. Cases are not being presented because Lodges fear red
tape and expense. It is tiine to call a halt. In 1926 we took the handling
of these matters from the Lodges and p laced them with a Grand Lodge
committee. The reasons behind the change were good, but advantage

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

has been taken of our simple code to introduce improper, if not unfair
tactics.
During the ·year I received a transcript of a minor case in which
three lawyers built up two hundred pages of manuscript, when it appears
to me that only ten were needed to cover all pertinent facts. The Lodge
had to pay for this transcript and the attorney whom we advised them
to secure. We must no longer tolerate such a condition. Mackey says
of Masonic Trials, "It is the duty of a judge, says the great Roman
orator, in every cause to seek for truth. This is the great, the only
object of. a Masonic trial, and hence, in such a trial, no advantage is ever
permitted to be taken of those legal and verbal technicalities, the use
of which, in profane courts, so often e.bles the guilty to escape. This
great principle of Masonic law must never be forgotten in the management of a trial. Every part of the investigation is to be directed with
a single view to the acquisition of truth. Masonic trials are therefore
to be conducted in the simplest and least technical method, that will
preserve at once the rights of the Order and of the accused, and which
will enable the Lodge to obtain a thorough knowledge of all the facts
in the case."

Masons owing allegiance ta this Grand Lodge are enjoined, to respect
the purpose of this resolution."
The Grand Master then said in case the Grand Lodge · should not
adopt this or a similar resolution he would rule that "it is inconsistent
with the purposes and professions of our fraternity and dangerous to its
welfare to permit any form of so-called door prize or game or other
device promoted by a Lodge for financial gain whereby a participant may
by an element of chance or luck stand to win something of value in
excess of the stake invested by him. Such a ruling would no doubt bar
many things not inherently harmful in themselves but potentially dangerous as analogies or precedents.
·
"There are many who believe that the predominant drift of our
times is toward a desire to get something for nothing, to rely on others
rather than on one's own efforts. This disintegrating influence reveals
itself not only in a craving for collective forms of government to promote getting rather than giving but in a myriad of other forms even including 'religious and charitable organizations that are hypocritical enough
to rely on the gambling spirit rather than on the giving spirit. Even at
the risk of being deemed narrow and old-fashioned, Freemasonry must
stand firm against this dangerous tendency. There is probably no Lodge
in the country, certainly not in this jurisdiction, that could not be financially
independent if its memb~rs wished to contribute only a portion of what
'they spend in personal indulgences. Reliance on the public's gambling
instinct is not a necessary way to finance ourselves. It is only the easiest
way. In the long run it is . also a disastrous way. Fortunately the overwhelming proportion of our Lodges have always refrained from such
activities."

784

Kansas, 1941 (Grand Master):
"To All Lodges and District Deputy Grand Masters:
"On a number of occasions Lodges have been cautioned about action
on indiscriminate circulars. Lodge officers and members should analyze
the motives and persons responsible for such circulars.
"Last year
speaker with some ability and knowledge. wove in some
international propaganda which provoked unfavorable comment.
"A report has come in recently of an address delivered by a nationally
noted writer before a considerable group of Masons in Lodge assembled
which was couched in vulgar and occasional profane language. We want
no more of this.
"To avoid unfavorable comment and reaction, you are hereby ordered
to disregard all circulars, sales efforts, ·or offers to lecture. No Lodge
shall permit the delivery of any such unauthorized address, lecture or
talk before its membership."
This is in accord with the spirit of By-Law 78 and· not to be construed as affecting the ordinary discussions of our Lodge communications.

a

Massachusetts, 1939 (Chairman, Correspondence. Committee):
. With reference to gambling and games of ·chance the Grand Master
made some fundamentally sound and valuable suggestions and recomm.e nded the adoption of the following resolution:
"Resolved: that it is inconsistent with the professions and purposes
of Freemasonry for any Masonic body to promote, participate in, or
profit by any .lottery, game of chance, door prize, or other device or
activity whereby the individual participant may be able, through the
element· of chance, to win a greater value than he pays, and each Masonic
body within the jurisdiction of this \'.irand Lodge is hereby enjoined to
observe the letter and the spirit of this resolution; and
"Be it further resolved that all so-called collateral bodies, clubs, or
other organizations in Massachusetts whose membership is related to or
dependent on Masonic membership, or which in the public mind are likely
to be regarded as Masonic organizations, are requested, and all individual

785

Mississippi, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Finance Committee recommended that membership in the Masonic
Service Association be discontinued. Adopted.
The Law Committee decided that a Mason who pleads "guilty" to a
charge in a court and is s'entenced to the penitentiary, automatically
expels himself from the institution as the committee expressed it "such
a sentence clearly shows that his usefulness as a Mason is destroyed and
a Lodge cannot be expected to bear such a burden in its membership,
no matter how much the Lodge may sympathize with the brother, because
Masonic fellowship has been snapped by a violation of Masonic law and
precedent."
Missouri, 1940 (Grand Master):
Again the cowardly hand of anonymity has made its appearance in
our Grand jurisdiction. My attention has been c·alled to an anonymous
circular received by the Worshipful Master or Secretary of Lodges in
at least five widely scattered cities in the state. All five were addressed
in the same handwriting, mailed from the same post office in Kansas City
and were the same in content; and it seems probable that the circular
was sent generally to the Lodges throughout the state.
The circular, signed only "So Mote It Be," seeks, on political and
religious grounds, to prevent both the advancement in our Grand Lodge
line of our Deputy Grand Master and his re-electioll' as United States
Senator. The man or group responsible therefor are evidently afraid or
ashamed to bestow their names on this illegitimate brain-child which was
sired in iniquity and hat.red, and foaled in cowardice..
.
As Most Worshipful Brother R. R. .Kreeger said under similar cir-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

cumstances in 1909, we do not consider this matter from the standpoin·t
whether any particular officer of the present Grand body shall or sha!I
not be advanced. That question should and must be left to the sober and
unbiased judgment of the representatives in Annual Communication now
assembled. But we feel that in justice to the Craft and in the fulfillment
of our duty we must unconditionally condemn the publication and circulation of this communication, for the reason that it is un-Masonic in the
extreme and a flagrant violation of our laws and traditions with reference to electioneering for office, bringing politics and religion into the
Grand Lodge and violating the common principles of justice, decency
and fair play.
He or they who are responsible for the circular are not worthy of
being called Freemasons. They may be members of Masonic Lodges.
but they are not Freemasons at heart.
Shortly before our Annual Communication last year, anonymous letters.
were sent out. They were vigorously condemned by Most Worshipful
Brother Henry C. Chiles, but his denunciation apparently has not prevented a repetition.
We trust all the brethren in Missouri will heed this warning and
thereby make further action on the part of the Grand Lodge unnecessary. To the honor of the Craft, there have been few such offel}ses in
the past, and there must be none in the future.

. Pennsylvania, 1939:
In order to further clarify and emphasize an edict heretofore issued
the Grand Master on June 8, 1939, issued the following edict:
'
"Whereas, on ..January 18, 1937, an Edict was issued declaratory of
the Masonic Law w hich prohibits Masons from using lotter ies and games
of chance for money raising purposes; and
"Whereas, it now appears that the law may not be fully understood
and its meaning comprehended, wherefore a further declaration is deemed
necessary.
"Now, therefore, I, Robert R. Lewis, Right Worshipful Grand Master
of Free and Accepted Masons in Pennsylvania and Masonic Jurisdiction
Thereunto Belonging, by virtue of the authority in me vested, do hereby
order that no member of the Masonic Fraternity in this Jurisdiction shall
alone or ':"ith others, promote, assist in, or be a party to, any lottery,
game, device of chance, or other activity, whereby or wherein any individual participating may be able, through the element of luck or chance
to win, be awarded or receive a greater value than any other like par~
ticipant, arranged, devised or intended to raise money which shall, either
direc~ly. or indirectly,. in':1re to the benefit of any Masonic Lodge, body,
assoc1ahon, or orgamzat10n, or to any body, club, committee, or other
organization in Pennsylvania whose m embers are required to have membership in the Masonic Fraternity.
"This Edict must be read at the next, and the subsequent stated
meeting of the Lodge. It need not be copied in full in the minutes, but
I direct that the same shall be printed in full in the notice of your next
stated meeting, in order that the contents thereof may be known to each
and every member of your Lodge."
· This is still another emphatic statement of a Masonic principle which
is practically universal in the United States and it might well be observed
by certain non-secular organizations which not only frequently disregard
and ignore the moral principles hlVolved but the state laws as well.

786

North Dakota, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Chairman of the Committee on Ritual, of the District of Columbia,
also expressed disapproval of publishing the details 6f the trial commission's reports regarding offenses (and we suppose the names of defend-·
ants). Why not? Here in North Dakota, we believe in letting folks
know, not only what Masonry stands for, but also just what we will not
tolerate in our members.
Oklahoma, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The Grand Master recommended that any Mason caught in a state
of intoxication in the city in which the Grand Lodge is in session is subject to reprimand, and this writer believes that this should apply in all
other ~ities and towns within the Grand jurisdiction.
Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
He also recommended that Edict No. 6 be ·amended to read, "Any
member of the Grand Lodge, delegate or visito'r, who, during any Com-·
munication, appears in Grand Lodge-the building--or in public in the
city where the Communication is being held, in an intoxicated condition
shall be reprimanded by the Grand Master in Grand Lodge and he shalt
be arraigned by his Lodge for trial. ·.
This writer can hardly conceive of a state of affairs at a Communication of the Grand Lodge of Masonry where the need of such an edict
would be necessary unless jurisdictions exist in which our teachings are
actepted in a perfunctory manner, the. respect for the institution at a low
ebb, and the morale of the individual member far beneath that which is°
usually accepted as the standard of a member of the Craft. The need for
such an edict is an indictment that calls for the prosecution of a second
drive, not for dollars this time, but for the building of an Endowment
Fund composed of moral, spiritual and. intellectual elements.

787

Queensland, 1940:
Most Worshipful Grand Master: There have been several instances
in which brethren, who are not members-of the Craft, have come to our
Masonic gatherings and have been at the festive board. In one instance,
which I know very well indeed, a gentleman (the term is used for courtesy sake) came to one Lodge gathering here. He told a series of stories
he had not right to tell at the festive board, of a character that I would
call disgraceful. The Worshipful Master called him to order. It is a dreadful thing for such a man to come to our festive board-a man who does
not know our ways or customs or tenets. We cannot tolerate that sort
of thing. For this clause I am very grateful ·to the Board of General
Purposes. I now propose to put it for adoption. Carried unanimously.
Utah, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The matter of Masonic clubs using the name without authority from
Grand Lodge, and yet being accepted and recognized as Masonic by the
public and press, was discussed by the Grand Master. In one at least,
subjects of controversial character were discussed and accounts of the
same appeared in newspapers.· The Grand Master endeavored to secure
ti).e cooperation of this club and finally issued an edict by which such
organizations were forbidden to use a Masonic name or ·one implying
any connection or affiliation with Masonry and they were interdicted and
ordered to cease meeting. Some clubs, it seems, obeyed the Grand Master's

788

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

order, others apparently, continued as before. We have often expressed
surprise that any group of Masons would or could place themselves in the
position of defying an order of a Grand Master. They seem not to realize
that Grand Masters and Grand Lodge have the means of dealing drastically, if need be, with such situations, and that has been invoked by
Grand Masters of Illinois, Ohio, Tennessee and others. Grand Masters
may not deal with such organizations as organizations, but the Masonic
standing of every member of such bodies is absolutely in the hands of the
Grand Lodge, and charges, trial, conviction and expulsion followed in similar
cases. lf Masonic obligations mean nothing, then other means should be
used to teach such recalcitrants that they cannot flout Masonic law or
the edicts of Grand Masters .with impunity.
West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
As if recalcitrant organizations were not more than sufficient for an
unfortunate chief executive, Brother Fish was presented by the goddess
Ate with a new source of trouble in the form of a Lodge and its building
ambitions. 'Twas a small Lodge, my Masters, with a membership of
forty, only thirty-six of whom paid their annual dues, but the Lodge
wanted to embark upon a Lodge building scheme of the kind which tenderly strokes Sister Wild Cat. Feline schemes were disapproved of by
the Grand Master, notwithstanding a Lodge committee tried in vain to
persuade him to stroke pussy, and greatly disappointed one of its members "bluntly informed" the Grand Master that the Lodge would not
abandon its efforts. It did not. Defied the Grand Master's refusal to
approve. Raised funds on debentures sold to Masons and profanes.
Negotiated with the postal authorities to take a lease of the ground floor.
The Grand Master arrested the Lodge's Charter for disobeying the
Masonic law requiring the approval of the Grand Master before proceeding with the building. A large committee sought to procure its restoration,
but the Grand Master was adamant in his refusal, and when reporting
the matter to Grand Lodge recommended that the Charter be not restored owing to the illegality of the Lodge's proceedings, the worthlessness of the bonds in the absence of the Grand Master's approval and
endorsement; also because Masonry in several sections of the state had
been greatly discredited by wild-cat temple-building schemes. He also
recommended the sale of the property, the proceeds to be administered
in the interests of the Craft and the bondholders. So far, so good. But,
alas and alack! the Jurisprudence Committee was so full of the milk of
human kindness that it flowed in streams over all concerned. It approved
the Grand Master's arrest of the Lodge Charter arid his firm handling
of the case. It conveyed the principal officers' disavowal of any intention
to disregard the authority of Grand Lodge and the Grand Master, to
both of whom they tendered fraternal apologies for any laxity or neglect.
The committee was of opinion that the Lodge had been substantially disciplined. The rest of the milk was poured over the bone of contention,
namely, ·the Lodge building which seemed to the committee to be adequately and safely financed.
PAST MASTER'S DEGREE
Idaho, 1939:
He stated that the ritualistic work as presented in the jurisdiction
is generally done in a creditable manner, yet there is room ·for improvement. He was puzzled somewhat as to how a man can learn the work
well enough to pass a proficiency test and then in a sh'ort time in doing
the work, inject so many unheard of words.

789

Nevada, 1940:
On October 20, 1939, I ordered the printing of sufficient Past Masters'
Rituals (as adopted at the last session of the Grand Lodge), for the use
of the Lodges in conferring the Past Master's Degree upon Masters-elect.
This entailed an expenditure of $25.00.
Ohio, 1940 (Grand Master):
In connection with the conferring of the Past Master's Degree, some
question has arisen as to whether the Master-elect who had received the
Past Master's Degree in a Chapter of Royal Arch Masojls, could be installed before he had attended the Convocation of Past Masters provided by this Grand Lodge.
It is my interpretation of our Code Section 94 that a Master-elect
who has filed his Past Master's Degree Certificate from a Chapter of
Royal Arch Masons,, may be installed any time within the sixty days
allowed by the Grand Lodge, but that he must attend the Convocation of
Past Masters as required by the Grand Lodge either before or following
his installation as Master.
Washington, 1939:
To clarify the Code, the Grand Master recommended that Section
1610 be repealed. This .section was passed as a By-Law and in the minds
of some, this section limits the right of membership in Grand Lodge of
those Past Masters who have taken the so-called "Secrets of the Chair."
As the Constitution prescribes the qualifications for membership in Grand
Lodge, and no change in those qualifications can be made except by
amending the Constitution, the section was obsolete and without authority.
h was repealed.
Also Section 2909 came under scrutiny. It, too, was enacted as a
By-Law, and attempts to add the Past Master's Degree to the Standard
Work. ·
The Grand Masters contended that inasmuch as the Past Master's
Degree can only be given' to · Past Masters and that its ritualistic work
could not be disclosed in Grand Lodge as the Wardens of the constituent
Lodges were members of Grand Lodge, therefore it would either be
necessary to repeal Section 2909 or dispense with the Wardens as members of Grand Lodge. He rather favored keeping Craft Masonry to its
original three degrees, as did all others presc;:nt.
Washington, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Chairman of the Committee on Ritual, District of Columbia, did not
agree with the recommendations made by our Grand Master relative to
ritualistic proficiency of a Worshipful Master-eiect. He particularly finds
fault with the statement that: "When the presidirtg officer of a Lodge
has gone through the ceremony of conferring a degree his nerves and ·
his physical energy are sufficiently exhausted so that another brother
can usually deliver a lecture in a more creditable manner than could be
done by the officer." We agree with our Grand Master that if the Degree
is conferred with earnestness and sincerity there is a tax on the nerves,
but the true test by which a Worshipful Master is measured lies not
alone in ritualistic proficiency. In fact, an officer may be a doubtful
ritualist and yet because of his exemplary life, his .sincerity, his practice
of · the three great tenets of our fraternity and his leadership, render
great service for his Lodge. We agree that every Master should be able
to confer all the Degrees and to deliver all the lectures, but agree with

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

our Grand Master that it is often better to call on a Past Master or an
officer of the Lodge to deliver the lectures. It adds variety and relieves
the Master who has contributed to the conferring of the Degrees every
ounce of sincerity at his command, in order that the candidate be properly
impressed with the lessons taught. To sound the depths of Masonry one
must not depend upon ritualistic proficiency alone, and surely the conferring 'of the three Degrees, including the lectures, between 3 :00 p. m.
and midnight, as our esteemed correspondent has done, is a marathon
which, as such, deserves praise.

weakening our own morale and so strengthening the forces against us,
there is no . place for it in this community. Those people who talk of
freedom and the right to be as disloyal as they like should remember
that in some of the countries they admire their opinions would be met,
not with censorship, but with a firing squad. And the same would happen to those well-meaning but deluded individuals who, from so-called
altruistic motives, see no harm in the subversive propaganda that is
seeking to rear its head."

790

Wyoming, 1939:
A brother who is passing through the stations of his Lodge without
learning his work, and depends on othei:s to confer the degrees, is "thumbing a ride" to the honors of the Master's chair.

POLITICS
Missouri, 1940 (Grand Master):
It would seem that it should not be necessary to remind officers and
members of the Fraternity that partisan politics should never be brought
within the Lodge, or the Lodge drawn into politics; yet several experiences
of the year lea~ me to believe that such a reminder is both ncessary
and timely. In one city my attention was called to the fact that at the
meeting of a quasi-Masonic group, candidates for political office . were
presented and introduced as such. In another city, at a Lodge dinner
at which I was present, a brother who was called upon to speak was
introduced as a candidate for a named political office. In both instances
I told the brethren o~ the impropriety of which they had been guilty
and explained that while we as Freemasons ate charged to be patrotically
loyal to the country in which we live, and while we 3hould, as individuals,
carry the tenets of Freemasonry with us in our daily lives and apply
them in all our acts-even in our individual political thinking and acting
partisan politics should not be brought into the Lodge or the Lodge
drawn into politics for by so doing the peace and harmony of the Lodge
would ultimately be destroyed.
·
·
A third violation of the above policy was called to my attention
when a Past Master of one of our Lodges filed a complaint with me,
charging the Worshipful Master of another Lodge with un,Masonic conduct in sending to a number of Masonic voters a note, signed by him
as Worshipful Master of the Lodge and reading as follows :·
"Dear Brother:
"Mrs.
, the wife of our Senior Warden, is a candidate for
Republican committeewoman of the ................ Ward. Any assistance you
can give her will be personally appreciated by me.
Fraternally,
----,W.M.
- - - - Lodge No .......... "
West Australia, 1940, (Grand Master):
Then he added what reminds An;iericans of our "Bill of Rights"
and the subversive influences here that we are belatedly recognizing:,
"Much is being written and said about the attitude of the authorities
to freedom of speech. The right of freedom of expression is claimed as
one of the most valuable rights in a democracy and so it is. But when
that so-calle'd freedom of speech is used for only one purpose, that of

791

PUBLICITY
District of Columbia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee) :
On another subject, · however, which the Grand Master freely admits is
a policy criticized by some, we are in agreement with the views of M. W.
Brother Finseth . He says:
"To advocate publicity of Lodge affairs will very likely be considered
.an innovation by some and undoubtedly will bring criticism from others.
However, I am a believer in such publicity. Well directed newspaper
publicity of fraternal events is of interest to nearly everyone, and most
newspapers are more than willing to print newsy articles of this character.
"Men take pride in belonging to an organization whose affairs are
important enough to attract the attention of others, and I would suggest that
every Lodge appoint a committee whose duty it is to see that mention
of special meetings and Masonic events is made in the local newspapers."
We believe it absolutely necessary that such announcements be passed
upon by a competent Maso!J.iC editor before release to the press.
England, 1939 (Grand Lodge):
Grand Lodge has always consistenly refused to express any opm10n
on questions of foreig~ or domestic state policy, either at home or abroad,
and it will not allow its name to be associated with any action, however
humanitarian it may appear to be, which infringes its unalterable policy
of standing aloof from ever.y qµestion affecting the relations between one
Government and another.
Kentucky, 1939:
The Committee on Publicity made the following report which was
adopted by the Grand Lodge:
"We, your Committee on Publicity, beg leave to report that we have
conscientiously performed our duties to the best of our ability during the
past twelve months and have secured much favorable publicity in the press.
All of which we believe has redounded to the advantage of placing our
beloved institution in the proper light before the several communities in
the state, which it deserves."
It would be interesting to know in detail just what the committee did
and how and to what extent favorable publicity for Masonry was obtained.
0

New Brunswick, 1939:
Now, Brethren, I want to quote you exceqits from the Antient Charges
before I make any comment upon them. I would refer you to Sections
4 and 5 of The Constitutions of the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick :
"You should be cautious in your words and carriage, that the most
penetrating stranger shall not be able to discover or find out what is not
proper to be intimated; and sometimes you shall divert a discourse, and
.manage it prudently for the honor of the worshipful fraternity.

792

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GKAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"You are to act as becomes a moral and wise man; particularly not
to let your family, friends, or neighbors know the concerns of the Lodge
but wisely to consult your own honor, and that of your antient brotherhood."

Tracy City, Grundy County, Tennessee, on Thursday, the 14th day of November 1940, and

New York, 1940:
On March 1, 1940, issued a notice to all concerned that the Grand
Master had not approved the solicitation of advertisements for any Masonic
or other publication.
North China, 1938 (E. C.):
Discussion of Masonic matters-The Board of General Purposes
renews its previous warnings against discussion of Masonic matters in
places of public resort in the hearing of non-Masons,' and particularly
impresses upon the brethren the necessity for exercising the utmost care
in this direction.
Masters of Lodges in this District are requested to bring this warning
to the attention of their Lorge members and to emphasize the importance
of compliance therewith.
Ohio, 1940 (Grand Master):
In his remarks the Grand Master stated:
"Today there is strong competition for one's time. We are b~sieged
on all sides to join this or that club, society or organization. In addition
to these things a great number of people seem to be possessed with a mad
craze for pleasure that apparently cannot be satisfied. Despite this competition for time, Masonry continues on its silent yet impressive manner
of doing good . . We must not be misled into making our Lodge rooms any
the less sacred places than they have been in ages past. We realize we are
living in a changing world, but as a matter of fact the world has been
changing since time immemorial."
Oregon, 1940 (Grand Master):
To advocate publicity of Lodge affairs will very likely be considered
an innovation by some and undoubtedly will bring criticism from others.
However, I am a believer in such publicity. Well directed newspaper publicity of fraternal events is of interest to nearly everyone, and most newspapers are more than willing to print newsy articles of this character.
Men take pride in belonging to an organization whose affairs are
important enough to attract the attention of others, ·and I would suggest
that every Lodge appoint a committee whose duty it is to see that mention
of special meetings and Masonic .events is made in the local newspapers.
The time has arrived when Masonry should no longer "hide its light
under a bushel."
Speaking of "publicity" the Grand .Master urged a wider use of the
press arid suggested a committee of publicity for each constituent Lodge
to have the matter in charge. In short he believed the time has come
when Freemasonry should no longer "hide its light under a bushel." An
opinion with which many Grand Lodges would cordially disagree.
Tennessee, 1941 (Grand Master):
The resolution which I approved follows:
Whereas : It has been brought to the attention of Sewanee Lodge No.
405, F . and A. M. of Tennessee, sitting in Stated Meeting at its hall in

793

Whereas: A non-political, non-religious and non-partisan organization
known as the Grundy County Crusaders has been formed in Grundy
County for the purpose of using all lawful means to eliminate any subversi've elements, sources of un-American teachings and non-democratic
doctrines in Grundy County, Tennessee, and
Whereas: The Masonic Order was founded on the principles of observance of the duly constituted law, religious freedom, obedience to and
the support of the principles of freedom within the law, morality and
brotherly love; and as such could not subscribe to nor support 'any subversive acts and teachings, non-democratic doctrines and un-American
principles;
Now, Therefore, be it Resolved by Sewanee Lodge No. 405, F. and
A. M. of Tennessee, 'duly sitting in Stated Meeting, that it endorses the
lawful activities, purposes and acts of the said Grundy County Crusaders
in the efforts of the said organization toward the elimination of discordant .
elements of, and antagonistic activities toward the democratic form of the
government of the United States of America, the freedom of religion,
and the principles of morality and brotherly love.
Passed by unanimous vote this, the 14th day of November, 1940.
December 12, 1940, Sewanee Lodge No. 405, located at Tracy City,
submitted a strong resolution endorsing the lawful activities and purposes
of the Grundy County Crusaders for my approval. This resolution was
studied by M. W . Chas. Barham, P. G. M. and myself, and we could see
nothing in it contrary to the principles of Masonry, since lawful means
were to be used to eliminate subversive elements and Un-American teaching from Grundy County. The Grand Master feels that as Masons, we
must b.e awake in these difficult days if we are to be "true to our government and just to our country." We have a responsibility to our government, which cannot be discharged by a passive and indifferent attitude,
toward those forces that seek to destroy the rights and liberties guaranteed
by the Constitution. May every Mason loyally support our beloved country.
Washington, 1940:
Grand, Master Kirtland refused perm1ss1on to a brother to use the
name "The Masonic News" for a publication until that brother supplied
satisfactory evidence .as to financial responsibility. This Grand Lodge is
supplied with two other journals "The Masonic Quarterly" and "The
Masonic Tribune."
West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
A motion, approved by the Finance Committ<;e (Philippine Islands),
was adopted for the publication of a directory of all Masons in good
standing in the Jurisdiction, for the promotion of closer relationship with
each other, and that they might also "be able to pre.v ent themselves from
doing something un-Masonic toward any member of the fraternity." Doubtless the intention is good, but one of the ingredients in the essence of Freemasonry is to live in Charity with all men and to do to them as we would
they should do to us. Probably, mail order houses will feel that the
Masons are certainly doing exactly as they want to be done to in their
business. Hower, it is the Philippines' affair."

794

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
Georgia, 1939:
When first originated, Grand Lodges adopted the idea of declaring a
single "Public Schools Week." Georgia now raises the term to one month
and changes its designation to "Good Citizenship and Education Month."
As an initiation of this activity; Grand Master et al. met with the State
Superintendent of Schools in Atlanta, "where a broadcast was given over
WSB announcing Good Citize11ship and Education Month.
From the report of the. Committee on Citizenship and Public Schools
we learn that between 140 and 150 Lodges have taken part in these
programs, with over 34,000 in attendance. The program is further aided
by the Masonic Messenger, the official publication of Grand Lodge. These
educational programs are always of vital importance, but especially now
when our very liberties are at .stake.
Georgia, 1940 (Grand Master):
In accordance with the resolution passed at the .1935 session a proclarbation was issued setting apart the period September 16 through October
15 for the observance of a Citizenship and Free Public School Program.
Worshipful and Rev. Firley Baum again consented to head this committee and he has been tireless in his efforts to make the program everything the Grand Lodge could wish. The observance was inugurated with
a radio program over Station WSB on September 14. Dr. M. D. Collins,
State School Superintendent, favored. us with an ;iddress on this program. We are grateful to the State Department of Education for their
endorsement of and cooperation with this movement. .
The response this year has been exceedingly gratifying; practically
everyone who was asked by this committee to assist, did so, and rendered yeoman service. This year a larger committee was constituted so
that the entire state could be more nearly covered.
· During the year three bulletins were sent out to this committee.
Our Most Worshipful Grand Master; Brother J. Wilson Parker, has
given unfailing and unfaltering support to this program during the yea'r
and frequently addressed the brethren, in the summer conventions and
in the Lodges, on this question. He also spoke over the radio, with Brother
Dr. M. D. Collins, our state school superintendent, and myself. We are
deeply indebted to him and to Brother Dr. Collins.
Lodges .in South Carolina are active in the interest . of the public
schools, assisting attendance teachers in maintaining enrollments and in
some cases Lodges, by small assessments upon their members, are furnishing clothing, books, glasses, etc., for needy pupils.
Maine, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
We learn with pleasure that the Committee on Citizenship and Public
Schools· reported that there is an increased interest in these subjects
and that some one hundred and fifty of the Lodges took active part in the
observance of Public School matters, with an attendance of more than
thirty-four thousand of the brethren of Georgia:
RESEARCH .
North Carolina, 1940:
He referred with enthusiasm to the work of the North Carolina Lodge
of Research, No. 666, of )Vhich he is a Past Master, stating that the
printed contributions of this Lodge to Masonic literature and knowledge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

795

are really notable. He ·also states that local study gruops are doing excellent work.
He recommended establishment of 'a medal, to be awarded by the
Grand Master for outstanding Masonic achievement, to be known as the
Joseph Montfort medal. This was approved.
Washington has a Research Lodge, of which Most Worshipful Brother
Walter E. Meier has been the inspiration and guiding genius, and there
is an interesting report of its work. We regret to learn that at the
time of its presentation that distinguished brother was seriously ill. In
his absence there was read a document of which he was the author,
titled, · "Masonic Moral Mandates," which will well repay a careful reading. There is 3: particularl:r thorough discussion of the "liquor question."
RITUAL
New Jersey, 1940:
The Grand Master recommended that a change in the · ritual be made
whereby the impreccations used in the degrees would be explained as
being symbolic only, and that the only penalties imposed by Masonry
are reprimand, suspension, and expulsion. Committee on the ritual frawned
on the proposed change but said that the explanation might be made to
a candidate immediately after the charge, but was not to become a part
of the ritual. Grand Lodge adopted the committee's report.
Tennessee, 1941 (Grand Master):
It is evident that our knowledge of ritual has out-stripped by far our
understanding and appreciation of the noble meaning and high destiny of
Masonry. Our ability to recite ritual with exactness has .surpassed our
zeal for its higher values and dulled our comprehension of the truths presented. Whether we would have it so or not, we are faced with the fact
that only about ten per cent of our membership has any real interest in
learning our ritual or time to become proficient in its performance. This
leaves nearly ninety per ce.nt of our membership with the feeling, although
it may never be articulated, .that the investment by the Grand Lodge
through its. Lecture System does not touch their lives and has nothing of
vital interest to offer them. We owe something to this large group of
intelligent and serious minded brethren, and we must endeavor to challenge
them for the future of Masonry and rouse them to a sacred sense of its
many values. Some of this group may be interested in the beauty of its
symbolism, some in the depth of its philosophy, some in its romantic
history, and still others may become especially interested in the charitable
undertakings of the fraternity. The Grand Master is definitely of the opinion
that the Lecture System can help us and must help us to emerge from our
indifference and lack of understanding and bring us into a day of larger
usefulness.
West Australia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
There seems to have been the desire to curtail the Master Mason
Degree without impairing its structure, in order to save time. The idea
that this was a strong reason is found in the result of inquiries by the
committee addressed to other jurisdictions as to the length of time it
took to "put on" (as it was said) the Master Mason Degree. The degree,
as I have seen it worked in America-and it was claimed to be based on
the York Rite-was certainly a very tedious performance, notwithstanding the skill of the performers, especially when its three sections were
given, even if there was only one candidate. When I witnessed it, it took

796

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

three and a half hours, which was also the time it took in Alberta when
the committee conducted its inquiry. In other jurisdictions, owing to the
absence of so much prolixity, the time was given variously, being from
seventy minutes to three hours. It will be seen, therefore, that the task
before the committee was a somewhat formidable one, and the utmost
the revisers were able to report was that · the reductions proposed, "would
not reduce the time to less than two hours, two hours and forty-five
minutes being nearer the mark." The committee also reported that it
had endeavored to keep in mind that the beauty and dignity of the degrees,
especially the dramatization in the Third Degree, should be preserved;
also that the present form and wording should not be changed except
where necessary; the avoidance of unnecessary repetitions; lectures to be
kept within due bounds; and optional parts to be kept to a minimum.
After discussion the committee's revision was adopted, and the use of
the revised ritual made operative on January I, 1940.
This writer, while readily admitting that the choice of ritual and the
determining of its wording and length is entirely the affair of any Grand
jurisdiction, has often wondered what Western Australian brethren would
think if they had to work degrees that took three hours to put on. Of
course, it could not happen with the rituals we have, because we in Australia rely on symbolism, whilst in America dramatization, especially in
the Third Degree, is preferred. It is very spectacular, and when in the
Third Degree, Pope's ode, "Vital spark of heavenly flame," is sung by a
specially selected choir at the time when iri our symbolic rendering we
have either Handel's "Dead March," or "Chopin's "Marche Furiebre," the
bizarre dramatization is entirely forgotten in the thrill of the immortal
ode, which, we can repoice to remember, was composed .by a brother Freemason-one who was as devoted a Craftsman as he was a Roman Catholic.
Still, to the writer, the less spectacular symbolic performance of the degree
i3 more appealing than the dramatic form.
West Virginia, 1939:
When we consider the time lost and the inconvenience caused to members when Grand Honors are accorded so often to visitors in our Lodges,
we will perhaps read with approval the adoption of the following resolution:
"Resolved, That Grand Honors be given in subordinate Lodges only
as follows : To the Grand Master or his representative when on official
business or visit; to the Grand Master of a sister jurisdiction or his representative; and to Past Grand Masters of this Grand jurisdiction on appropriate occasions and at the discretion of the presiding officer."

STUDENT LOANS
Georgia, 1940 (Grand Master):
Prompted by high ideals and pure m.otivt:s for a desire to be of service
to the youth of our state, the Grand Lodge in 1921 created the Student
Loan Fund. While it has been administered as efficiently as possible
and now amounts to approximately $30,000.00, much difficulty has been
encounter·ed on the collection of these notes. It has been necessary on
several occasions to resort to the courts in an effort to recover funds
loaned. This is not wholesome advertising for our fraternity. The commission is quite often confronted with the plea that the recipient thought
the funds were donated instead of loaned. If we withdrew from this field
of activity the cause of education will not suffer, as other organizations
can provide sufficient funds for all worthy applicants.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

797

Maine, 1941 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
The difficulties of any "Student Loan Fund" in Nevada is seen in
the report that there are nine unpaid loans and several students that have
ignored the letters of the committee. Many. students give the matter of
re-payment little consideration and only too often look upon the obligation lightly, and gradually look upon it as philanthropy.
North Carolina, 1941 (Grand Master)l'
For many years the Grand Lodge has maintained a student loan fund
of approximately $85,000, allocated in amounts of from $1,000 to $5,000
or more in some twenty-four colleges throughout the state.. This loan
fund has been operated with a reasonable degree of satisfaction to the committee of the Grand Lodge which has from time to time made reports
to the Grand Lodge. Under the plan originally adopted, when a portion
of this fund was allocated to a college and turned over to the college,
the matter of its administration was left entirely to the college authorities,
with the understanding that it would be loaned preferably to juniors and
seniors who had made a good record during their first two years in
college, and who could not finish without aid of this kind. The colleges
from time to time would make reports to the Grand Lodge Student Loan
Fund Committee. For many years the fund operated very successfully,
and through it a large number of wor•hy students, wPlo . otherwise could
not have finished their ~ducation , were enabled to graduate and take their
places out in the world.
In recent years, however, there has been a very decided falling off in
demands of students upon student loan funds. This situation is attributable to the policy of the Federal government in extending student aid in
generous amounts to all classes of higher schools and colleges. At the
present time, approximately $25,000 of the Grand Lodge fund are not
being used by the colleges in which they are allocated, and the trend
would .seem to indicate very definitely that from year to year the demand
for these loan funds will continue to grow less. In the light of this situation, I recommend that the Grand Lodge direct the Loan Fund Committee or the Finance Committee of . the Grand Lodge to withdraw the
amount of the fund and any accretion thereto, from any college in which
the fund is not needed or has fallen into disuse, and in such withdrawals
there will .be a full and complete accounting between the college and the
Grand Lodge with respect to the fund.

TEMPLES
District of Columbia, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Indiana has one very desirable regulation, which is strictly enforced:
that no emblems other than Masonic may be displayed in a Lodge room
during Lodge meetings. In our own jurisdiction a number of our Lodge
r.ooms present to the candidate, and to members, an East which is dominated by an Eastern Star, in some instances larger and overshadowing
the great symbol which should be in simple dignity alone. It has long
been the firm belief of this writer that all such emblems should be easily
removable and should be removed wHen the organization they represent
is not in session. We believe it is a matter which should have the attention of our own Grand Lodge, and that the example of Indiana is a fine
one to follow.
·
Iowa, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Over-ambitious temple building in the fat years has left its trail of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

troubles. The best efforts were bent to bring about readjustments and
effect salvage. The story is the ever-recurrent one. Now the Grand Master
must approve all building schemes. But the horse is gone. Iowa has had
and still has the same headache. Numerous suspensions and much uncollected dues troubled them, but they hope that by the concerted action
of the faithful "both situations can be bettered.

Under the above heading we list excerpts from the Proceedings of
other Grand Jurisdictions. In other words-"What the Other Fellow Thinks
of Us." . These Reviewers or Chairmen of Corresp0ndence Committees are
experts in culling and we heartily appreciate their criticisms-be they
constructive or destructive.

798

Indiana, 1940 (Grand Master):
In a number of reports from our Grand Lecturer, he has called attention to other than Masonic emblems being displayed in. our Lodge halls
during Masonic meetings. In each instance I have advised the Lodge that
this was in violation of Section 75 of our Regulations and have met with
courteous response in their removal.
Oregon, 1940 (Chairman, Correspondence Committee):
Port Saint Joe Lodge No. 111, with a membership of 40 and annual
dues of $4.00, owning a downtown lot in . addition to a small amount of
cash in its treasury, wished to erect a temple costing between eight and
nine thousand dollars, all of which was to be borrowed. They claimed that
the Post Office would be located on the ground floor, along with other
renters of space for business purposes. The Grand Master could not see
it as a good sound business proposition and refused to sanction the scheme.
His disapproval, however, meant nothing in the )'Oung lives. of the forty
dauntless members of No. 111, so they went blithely on their way without
further discussion and built the building. They printed bonds bearing six·
per cent interest and sold approximately $4,500.00 to Masons and profanes.
They also entered into a lease with the Post Office Department for floor
space.
The Grand Master acted in no uncertain manner. He arrested their
Charter, refused the supplications of a committee composed of Lodge
members to rescind his actions, and recommended that the building and
all matters pertaining thereto be turned over to the Grand Lodge Properties Committee to be sold in the interest of the Craft, and the bond
holders be classed as preferred creditors.
Now here comes the comedy: The Jurisprudence Committee in
passing on the matter, did not hold with the Grand Master in his recommendation. They held that the brethren had suffered sufficient punishment and that their Charter should be restored and they be ·a llowed to
go merrily on their way. They only stipulated that they in no way, that
is, the Grand Lodge, could be held responsible for t~e bonds· issued.
To our way of thinking, that was about as lame a solution of a question that we have ever witnessed. They speak of the members having
been sufficiently disciplined. Who, we ask, has suffered anything, except
the dignity of Grand Lodge and the Grand Master. The boys flaunted
the ruling of the Grand Master based on Grand Lodge law; .they now
have th~ir building just as they wished irrespective of what the Grand
Master ruled. Had the ringleaders of this affair been brought up for trial
and deprived of their membership, an example would have been made
that wouJd have had a salutary effect that would have been lasting.

799

BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS

90th Annual Communication, Grand Lodge, F. &. A. M.
San Francisco, California, October 10-13, 1939
Leon 0. Whitsell, Grand Master
Alberta:
The Grand Lecturer has a very pertinent paragraph in his report on
the question of attendance at Masonic Funerals.

•

•

•

•

•

•

A unique feature of these Proceedings is the report of the Committee
on Clandestine Masonry, which tells of the work of the Negro Masonic
lodges of the Filipino and Mexican Grand Lodges. This is a very informative report and while it is not customary for us to recognize such organizations yet it augurs well for Masonry that it can ·keep an eye on the
operations of those who ordinarily cannot find entrance into our own Lodges.·
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is signed by Brother
Jesse M. Whited, the Chairman, who is assisted by a committee of six
other brethren. The report proper takes the form of a topical review and
sometimes we wonder what anology there can be between the heading
and the substance. For information purposes we would like to quote the
following as showing that Masonry is not nearly as selfish an organization
as some of our critics would suggest.
. "Remarkable thqugh it seems, the average yearly contribution made
by each Master Mason to his Grand Lodge is only $1.92 (ninety cents
the smallest, four dollars and a half the largest) and nearly four-fifths of
this is spent in Charity."
British Columbia:
. The Grand Master visited Harmony Lodge No. 164, of California.
This Lodge, although one of the smallest (it has thirteen members) is one
of the most active in the State. The Grand Master also attended the
strawbeay festival at Elk Grove, which is described as a "rather unique
Masonic gathering," which itself is a rather unique description.
Feeds seem to ha_ve been the order of the day in California. Shortly
before the unique festival at Elk Grove, the Grand Master attended a beef
feed at Monrovia and a similar festival at Inglewood.

•

•

•

•

•

•

The Grand Lodge listened with interest to an Oration by W:orshipful
Brother G. E. Meyer.
There are two Masonic Homes in California, one at Decoto and one
at C<;>':'ina. The buildings _and machinery are all reported as being in good
cond1t1on, and the only thing apparently that worries them now is the Old
Age Security law. The Superintendents of the two homes submit ·interesting reports o~ their. wor~. ~ complaint we have to make-and it applies
elsewhere than m Cahforma-1s that there are too many figures. Possibly
these may be all right when one hears them read and can have them
explained as one goes along, but to a non-mathematical mind they are
confusing and give one a headache. •

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We have been puzzled for sometime trying to discover what remuneration the Grand Master gets. Perhaps he gets nothing at all, but is.
content with the payment of his traveling and other expenses. We find
these items in a statement of Disbursements:
Grand Master, for relief.......--········-~---···················:................•$3,500.00
Grand M.aster, for traveling expenses ................................ 4,500.00

Grand Lodges but we Yt'C no K<><><I rcuon why the I.ocll(c1 ~ houlcl he 11111
to the expense and trouble of a trial ufter 11 mrmbrr ha~ lll'l 11 runvh II 11
of a felony and does not maintain and wish to hav~ 1111 11ppn1 t11111tv lo priwr
his innocence to the members of the J.odre.
During the year the Grand Lodge secured I0,(157 JuhM (u 1111 tlu lit 1111
members of their families, which is proof of the l'llt'I ·1h •ITo1 t 1 11( the
committee and certainly shows the remarkable efficiency 1u11I -.1111
of
the committee.

800

$8,000.00
Almost anyone would be content with that amount of remuneration.

•

•

•

•

•

•

The Report on Foreign Correspondence differs from anything which.
has so far come to our desk. It is quite interesting but does not lend
itself to the customary review. .
Ontario--Canada:
Taking as his topic, "The Quest," the Grand Orator delivered a notable
oration from which only one paragraph can be quoted here.

•

•

•

•

•

•

Iowa:
The printed Proceedings of this Communication came forward in a
formidable volume of over four hundred pages. It recalls what the glutton
said of. the turkey: " . .. a most unsatisfactory bird, a little too much for
one and not enough for two." But California is a large jurisdiction with
multitudinous activities.

There is a Committee on Masonic History which each year presents.
an interesting and instructive report.
California's Reviews are wonderful. There is a Committee on Correspondence, with Jesse M. Whited as Chairman, a position he has occupied
for eighteen years. Twenty-three topics were selected and all Proceedings.
were searched for · comments thereon. All this makes fascinating reading.

•

•

•

In California, as apparently in most Grand Jurisdictions, the problem
of Masonic funerals is a difficult one.
Delaware:
An oration entitled "The Quest" was ably delivered by W. Brother
G. Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Orator.

•

•

•

The Report on Correspondence is ably written by R. W. Brother Jesse
M. Whited, who present his reviews in topical form. It is with rare literary
skill that Brother Whited selects from his reviews the material for his topics.
Illinois: ·
The oration was delivered by Right Worshipful Brother G. Ellsworth
Meyer, an~ the subject was "The Quest." The address was highly figurative
and symbolic and the Grand Lodge ordered two copie~ to be sent to each
Lodge in the jurisdiction.

•

•

•

From r eading the report of the Committee on Grievances it appears
that under the Grand Lodge code of California conviction of a crime
classified as · a felony results in automatic expulsion unless the accused
demands a trial. This procedure may not be generally followed in other

•

Right Worshipful Brother Jesse M. Whited prepared the Report 011
Foreign Correspondence. The report is not a review of the proceeding•
of the various Grand Lodges but is a topical discussion by Brother Whited
of a large number of subjects which were probably suggested to him by
reading the proceedings of sister Grand Jurisdictions, with frequent quotations from the addresses of Grand Masters and others pertaining to the
subject matter discussed. We find much interesting and valuable readingin this report but it is of such a nature as not to lend itself readily to
reproduction· or quotations here. We commend a careful reading of Brother
Whited's remarks on the various subjects included in his report from
which interesting and valuable information may be obtained.

The Committee approved the Grand Master's suggestion with reference
to Lodges of Research. It did not so favorably regard the Grand Master's
suggestion that Lodges should appoint committees to advise with the
relatives of deceased Masons relative to their business. At first this seems
a very commendable proposition, but on thinking it over one sees the
weakness of it.

•

•

1101

,

•

•

·•

There were devotional exercises with music and a short and wellphrased sermon by Grand Chaplain R. V. Perkins.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

The adress of the Grand Master covered much territory, yet was brief
to terseness .
Incidentally the Grand Master attended many other gatherings from
citizenship meetings through anniversaries and strawberry festivals to
beefsteak feeds. As they all gave him joy, it is evident that his digestion
is good.
California has a fine public school system and good schools, in all of
which the Masons have shown an intelligent interest. They have a Committee on Public Schools ·week that seeks to stimulate interest in the publk
schools. Programs and other observances are arranged.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

An active Committee on Masonic History is industriously gatheringdata and writing articles 011 special events, all of which will be eventually
incorporated in a complete and comprehensive history.
What the Grand Master calls his valedictory is a combination of expressed gratitude for help given him and a g lorified plea to his brethren
to be real Masons with all that word implies.
The report of the Grand Secretary was long and complete to every
minor detail.

802

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Annual Oration of GI'.and Orator G. Ellsworth Meyer was a scholarly and thoughtful production, too. long to quote here and too good and
closely knit to garble.. His brethren thought so well of it that the Grand·
Secretary was instructed to have it printed in pamphlet form and to send
two copies to each Lodge.

•

•

803 -

especially commends the smaller L odges situated in isolated regions for
their so evident interest.

•

•

•

Their Comm ittee on History has made good progress during the year
and much valuable material has been assembled.
.

•

•

Full and informative reports were fi led on each of their generously
supported and well-conducted "Homes."

•

•

Brother Jesse M. Whited, Reviewer since 1919, again favors his readers
with a compilation of interesting material enriched with comments and
observations of his own. His work makes the Proceedings of the Grand
Lodge of California valuable as a book of reference.

•

•

•

•

•

•

New Mexico:
California continues to take first place in its annual observance of Public
Schools Week. A history of the mov~ment is most interesting reading.

•

The Foreign Correspondence Report by Jesse M. Whited is divided
under headings such as Funeral Service, etc. H is comments on funeral
services are worthwhile, we think. Read it.

It is ·seldom that a finance committee presents so complete and selfexplanatory report as was here presented.
The Committee on Clandestine Masonry submitted a long report listing
all unrecognized bodies operating in the jurisdiction. It is all most interesting, and if space permitte.d, it would reappear her for the curious reading
of Iowa Masons who know so little of such bodies.

•

•

•

The Committee on Correspondence, by its Chairman, Brother ] esse M.
Whited, presented a topical report preceded with
foreword both clever
and whimsical. Matters of importance or of general interest are grouped
under heads, and then follow quotations from the Proceedings of various
jurisdictions. The selections are well made and cover a large field.

a

•

•

Right Worshipful Brother Jesse M. Whited furnished one of the finest
reports on foreign correspondence which it has been our pleasure to read.
It is in. his usual topical form.
·
New Hampshire:
They record the death of a Past Grand· Master, M. W. B~other Benjamin F . Bledsoe. No finer eulo~y may be written of any man than is·
contained in one sentence from the Grand Master's report.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

North Dakota:
As usual, the Committee on Clandestine Lodges has an informative
report.
The Committee on History always has an interesting report as a result
of its delving into the Masonic lore which is so great in California. T his
year is no exception.
·
At long last we have arrived at the Correspondence Report. Brother
Jesse M. Whited is an artist and his topical reviews are masterpieces. We
know he uses good judgment in w hat he clips because h e h as quoted h alf
a dozen times from our own Reviews. He puts all of his comments in a
short for ewor d at the beginning of each topic, and some of them are gem s.
However, . for fear that he will "swell up and bust" with all this praise,
we call his attention to page 730 un der sources of Masonic information
found in Proceedings he cites "Masonry's .Historic Stand"-South Dakota
1938. Bet he couldn't find the article himself if he follows such · a reference,
as this was Gr and Orator Burr's a ddr ess before the Gran d L odge of N orth
Dakota. W e hope his other references were more accurate.

Their Grand Master was most zealous in his duty tvwar.d the Craft,
devoting his entire time to the job of being Grand ~faster.
The Gr~nd Master makes m ention of attending_ several special occasions,
two of which sound rather unique, not to say appetizing, to us: "Beef
.Steak Feeds." He states that they have become annual institutions in their
respecti':'e. ~oca!ities. We are o~ the opinion that the cost of such might
be proh~b1t1ve m New Hampshire, but we are certain they would be conducive to a large attendance.
·
The Grand Master is a believer in the results obtained froni the establishment of Research Lodges and makes recommendation that a committee
be appointed looking toward the formation of the same. Grand Lodge concurred, the committee was appointed. In our opinion the Grand Master will
make a valuable member of such a Lodge.

•

•

•

New South Wales:
One is particularly struck by the good work done by the Committee
on Masonic History of the Grand L odge of California, wh ich began searching through the libraries and other archives of sister Grand Lodges for
duplica tes of r ecords of California, many of which w ere desti:oyed in the
great fire which followed the earthquake of San Francisco. In several of
the Eastern Stat es they found important documents and publications, and
photostatic copies were taken. They indeed had to "go from home to
learn the news," and they found included official records of the Proceedings
of the first five years ( 1850-1854) of their own Grand Lodge. The immediate result was that various members of the Committee responded to the
requests of 103 L odges to visit and speak upon their early history.

Manitoba:
Brother G. Ellsworth Meyer, Grand Orator delivered an inspiring
oration taking for his subject "The Quest."

•

•

Ohio:
. A most meritorious annual oration w as delivered by Brother Ellsworth
Meyer, the Grand Orator, on the subject, "The Q uest."

.

•

Public Schools Week was observed as usual 'and the Grand Master

"'

.

Seventy-five pages of selected, interesting topics, with comment ther eon,
I

'1

804

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

from the Proceedings of sixty-two Grand Jurisdictions, were prepared
and edited by Brother Jesse M. Whited, California's talented Foreign Correspondent, whose work again is produced in the "topical" form. Under
the topic, "Bouqnets and Brickbats," four of the Ohio Correspondent's
"bouquets" were placed in vasei. We threw no "brickbats."
Oregon:
Had Richard III had the responsibility of writing a review 'of the 1939
Proceedings of California, filled as it is with innumerable items that are
worthy of comment he would have forgotten his great need of a horse and
cried, "my kingdom for more space."

•

•

•

•

•

•

Being Grand Master of California with its exacting duties is compensated
somewhat by the enjoyment of a trip to the Hawaiian Islands to visit the
Lodges there. Such an assignment isn't hard to take providing one can
afford the time.
The Annual Oration was delivered by Grand Orator G. Ellsworth
Meyer who took as his subject "The Quest. " It is entirely too fine a contribution to be marred by picking a passage here and there. It should be
read in its entirety to appreciate all that it contains.

•

•

The Report goes on to say that through it all they were favor.ed by
perfect California weather. How these Californians do love to say a word
about their weather. Yet we would not deprive them of their enjoyment,
people ,are all alike wherever you find them and all of us are prone to
feel that the rarer a thing is the more we prize and enjoy it.

•

•

•

Brother Jesse M. Whited, Foreign Correspondent, in his work gathers
together under various "headings" those things said or done in the various
Jurisdictions. He was more than kind to this our own Oregon for which
we here express our thanks. In his Foreword he has considerable information anent the things we in the United States do and how we differ in our
approach to what one may call the non-essentials in Masonry. However,
just as we were beginning to enjoy what he had gathered for our edification,
darned if he didn 't spring that California weather again and "bingo". the
picture faded.
Nevertheless our brethren to the south are a mighty fine group of
Masons doing a mighty fine job. Our hats are off to them.
Washington:

In addition to the splendid address of the Grand Chaplain there was a
baritone solo by Worshipful Brother Clarence Oliver.

•

•

•

•

•

•

The Masonic Homes of California are their especial pride and rightfully so.
The second big enterprise and service of California Masons is their
observance of Public Schools Week. For twenty years they have been
bringing the schools to the homes and the homes to the schools. They
permit no resolutions to be made, no endorsements or disapprovals of
legislation, but are primarily interested in making all classes in California
acquainted with the operation, development and success of the Public:
Schools. California has lead the way in this splendid field of endeavor.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

805

The Committee on Correspondence presents a splendid resume of
Masonry, not the usual form of reviewing each of the Grand Lodge proceedings, but by selecting subjects and quoting from Grand Lo~ge. proceedings on that subject. The Review is carefully prepared and 1s mter.esting and enlightening.
Western Australia:
An interesting account was furnished by the Grand Master of his different visitations to Lodges. One of the meetings was tl)at unique gathering
known as the Strawberry Festival, an annual affair held by one of t~e
Lodges at a place called Elk Grove, whose district is deservedly held m
high repute for its strawberries. The brethre? of that Lodge in:'ite ~asons
in the valleys of Sacramento and San Joaqum to partake of this delightful
fruit io the excellence of which this writer can testify from personal
experience. Whether it excels the best Australian strawberries, our own
included, may be just a matter of opinion, but it can be justly claii:ied f~r
California that its fruit growers are greater adepts than Austrahans m
bringing the high quality of their different fruits under notice. Nor do
Californian growers neglect the more fleshy products. "Beef Steak Feed~"
are the order of the day in various places, and the brethren translate their
activities into a vigorous propaganda of their products. I verily believe
there must have been California blood in the veins of the man who wrote,
, "He who in the world would rise, must either bust or advertise." Californians do not choose the "busting" alternative.

•

•

•

There is a fine note of appreciation of the kindnesses the Grand Master
received at the hands of one whom he justly calls "that Grand Old Man of
California Masonry," that Grand Secretary par excellence, our own W?rshipful Brother John Whicher." The name of Brother Whicher remams
pleasantly and gratefully in my memory.

•

•

•

*

*

*

•

•

•

The Annual Oration was given by Worshipful Brother Ellsworth
Meyer, Grand Orator, the subJect being "The Lost Word." It was a
thoughtful, inspiring deliverance.
Clandestinism in Masonry seems to hai:tnt California life, and an annual
report thereon is one of the features of the annual sessions of Grand Lodge.
It is again the pleasing privilege of the Reviewer to be in a position to
state that the Report on Correspondence is from the hand and heart of the
Professor of Topical Reviewing, Worshipful Brother Jesse M. Whited. It
is a wonderful-I had almost written priceless-production, such as I don't
believe anybody but my brother could furnish. A fellow-graduate in law
once told me that he always enjoyed reading "Broome's Legal Maxims"
because the information under each caption (a maxim) was so instructive
to the reader and rendered perusal pleasant. And that is precisely what can
be said of the Whited reviews. Could anything more be said? Only that
I am " 'umble very 'umble." Not in the Uriah Heep sense, of course, but
still "'umble.'; Also, I am on the friendliest of terms with the Chairm.an
of the Correspondence Committee in Western Australia, and do not desire
my "sins of commission" in the form of Reviews to be attributed to him.
He has quite enough to do without shouldering the guilt of the 'Umble
One, who officially luxuriates in the delightful abandon of the title "Reviewer.''

806

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

' GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

West Virginia:
Grand Treasurer, William· P. Filmer, also gave a good report of the
finances.

and this he regrets. The committee having the task in chage is st.e adily
gathering the material that in time will permit the writing of a comprehensive
history of California Masonry.

Grand Orator, G. Ellsworth Meyer, delivered his address, "The Quest,''
which was so acceptable that the Grand Secretary was directed to have
it printed in pamphlet form and two copies sent to each Lodge in the
jurisdiction.

Rather than tell the net loss in membership for the year, the Grand
Secretary·' sets .. up a statement that is more informative and, having in
mind that men may die but that Masonry lives, is encouraging.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

. •

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

The fine address of the Grand Orator, Brother Leo E. Anderson, was
a review of the present world conditions and their repercussions on American
life and affairs, and then an appeal for a closer study of them and a deeper
sense of personal responsibility. It is too extended to quote but should
be widely read.

The Board of Control reported extensively as did also the Committee
on Finance.

•

Chairman Jesse M. Whited, of the Committee on Correspondence, as
Chairman for the sixteenth annual period in a service of eighteen years as
Chairman, presented the report, saying: "As in former years, the same
is the work of the Chairman and the views expressed under the various
topics are, of course, his own."
As in former years the report is in topical form, furnishing highly instructive reading with quotations including some from West Virginia's
proceedings. He referred to Grand Master Rose's expression as to the
conduct of funerals and the exercise of discretion in dispensing with
Masonic Laws, and his issue of no proxies, for which in behalf of our
Fraternity we accept the same as complimentary and consistent with the
good judgment displayed by Brother Whited.
We are not surprised at the fruit of his long experience that has so
qualified him for the task submitted by the Fraternity of California.

•

The substance of the long and detailed report of the auditors lies in
the statement of large resources and a sound financial condition.

Interesting indeed did we find the Annual Report of the Trustees of the
Masonic Homes, including those of the Superintendents.
·

•

•

807

Following the report of the Necrology Committee Brother Reynold E.
Blight delivered an eloquent and scholarly sermon.

•

I I

•

•

Again Brother Jesse M. Whited reports for the Committee on Corres' pondence. In his foreword h'e ·quotes from the editorial page of the New
York "Times.'' It is so applicable ·to the present of America and American
Masons that it must be reprinted here.
The reviews of Brother Whited are in great measure topical, dealing
with many matters of general interest and setting up action or thought
in various jurisdictions. While the arrangement makes it somewhat disjointed, in its entirety it makes excellent reading. There is wisdom in selection and excellence in literary workmanship.

Wyoming:
A real good article in reference to Clandestine Masonry is found in
the proceedings. Those who are interested in this topic should read it.

Maine:
Grand Master Ogden speaking of the Masonic Homes, refers to the
able, efficient ind wise management, which has characterized these institutions since their very beginning.

9lst Annual Communication, Grand Lodge F. & A. M.
San Francisco, California, October 8-11, 1940
William B. Ogden, Grand Maste~

An eloquent "Oration" was delivered by the Grand Orator, Brother
Leo E . Anderson, on the subject of "Civic Responsibilities of Masons,''
which is printed in full and would make· a splendid pamphlet for general
distribution in 'these days of confusion and international chaos.

Iowa:
Well compiled and well written; the Proceedings of this Jurisdiction
make pleasant and easy reading.

•

•

•

•

•

•

The. devotional services were made. notable by the prayer, or rath er
sermon, of Grand Chaplain Reverend A. H. Wurtele.
The message of the Grand Master was not long, though he had much
ground to cover. He wrote tersely, yet furnished full accounting. His
opening paragraphs outlined his major 'problem, and he found the solution
pleasant.

•

•

•

He· properly r efused to permit the presentation of. propaganda on extraneous matters. They have the "Inspector" system, which he thinks
work,s well, but he finds that some Lodge secretaries are not co-operative,

•

•

•

•

•

•

The report of the Committee on Correspondence is as usual by R. W . ·
Brother J esse M. Whited and is of the topical ·variety. Several citations
are made from M. W. Brother George Giddings' annual address and. the
entire report of Chairman Whited covers the entire Masonic world with
worthwhile quotation and comment. It is a kind of universal compendium
of Masonic information and is one of the outstanding reviews of the
Masonic world.
Mississippi:
The Committee on Clandestine Lodges again submitted an interesting
I
.report, a few changes in clandestine lodges being noted.

•

•

•

Brother Jesse M. Whited submitted another one of his interesting
reviews of sister jurisdictions.

808

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPENDIX
ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS-MONTH OF MEETING
January-Minnesota, Tennessee, Philippine Islands.
February-Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma,
Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Arizona, Cuba, South Carolina.
April-Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Australia, Mexico
(York), Porto Rico.
May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode
Island, New Zealand, Western Australia.
June-Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, New South Wales, North Dakota,
Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin, Alberta, British
Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan,
Queensland.
July-Canada.
August-Montana, Wyoming, New Brunswick.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri, Utah.
October-California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky; New
Mexico, Ohio, West Virginia.
November-Arkansas, Maryland.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.
MASONIC CALENDAR
Ancient Craft Masons-Commence their era with the creation of the
world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."
Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 4000--5923.
Scottish Rite-Same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology
is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
/.dd 3760 to the common era. Thus~ 1923 and 3760--5683. After
September add another year.
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the year the second temple was commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno lnventionis. (A. Inv.), "in the year of discovery."
Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus : 1923 ·and 530--2453.
Royal and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the temple of
Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.), "in the year of the
deposit._"
Add 1000 to the common time. Thus: 1923 and 1000-2923.
Knights Templar-Commence their era with the organization of their
Order. Anno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
From the Christian era take 1118. , Thus: 1118 from 1923-805.
Order of High Priesthood...:....Dates from the year of the blessing of
Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benedictionis (A. B.),
"in the year of the blessing."
To the Christian era add 1913, the year of blessing. Thus 1923 and
' 1913-3836.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

809

AMERICAN GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter, Royal Arch M11on1-Joh11 11 A111lrr nn, C ~ ·n·
era! Grand High Priest, Raleigh, N. C'.; lfo~tlll' I{, Wukutt, < r 1111 <i11nd
Secretary, Columbus, Ohio; 45th Triennial Convo111tlon, 111 i,, 1,1111 I .11~1
City, Utah; Chapters 3469; Membership 493,127,
Grand Chapter of California-Arthur F. Thomae, ( i1and 11 hih l'tlt t,
2 Harrison Street, San Francisco, California; Thoni11 A. 1>11vle11 <i t 111111
Secretary, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California; MHth Annnnl
Convocation, April 17-18, 1942, Hollywood, California; Chaptere 122; Mcm ·
bership 17,213.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters-Charles H . Johnson,
General Grand Master, New York, N. Y.; 0. Frank Hart, General Grand
Recorder, Columbia, S. C.; 21st Triennial Assembly, 1942, Salt Lake City,
. Utah; Councils 1361; Membership 163,656.
Grand Council of California-Baker W. Blanchard, M. I. Grand Master, 40 West San Antonio Street, San Jose, California; Thomas A. Davies,
R. I. Recorder, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California; 82nd Annual Assembly, April 16, 1942, Hollywood, California; Councils 29; Mem)Jership 4684.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar-Harry G. Pollard, M. E .
'Grand Commander, Lowell, Mass. ; Adrian Hamersly, R. E. Grand Recorder, Indianapolis, Ind.; 42nd Triennial Conclave, 1943 (place and time
' to be selected); Commanderies 1597; Membership 238,291. ·
·
Grand Commandery of California-Charles L. Snyder, R. E . Grand
Commander, 1045 Bird Avenue, San Jose, California; Thomas A. Davies,
'E. Grand Recorder, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California; 84th
Annual Conclave, April 20, 1942, Hollywood, California; Commanderies
65; Membership 9688.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. (Southern Jurisdiction)-John H.
Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander, Washington, D. C.; F . C.
Kleinknecht, 33°, Acting Secretary General, Washington, D. C. Meets
biennially, third Monday in October, Washington,_ D. C.
No. Membership
Lodges of Perfection ................................................
187
176,293
Chapters .............. ~.......... ... ................. .................... ... ...
170
164,195
Councils ...........................,............................................
150
158,080
Consistories ..................................................................
142
156,873
Knights Commander Court of Honor ........................................ 3,100
Thirty-third Degree Masons ··························-.···'-····-··············----·- 2,107
California
Willia~ Parker Filmer, 33°, Sovereign Grand Inspector General in

California, San Francisco, California.
No. Membership
23,504
Lodges of Perfection ..................................................
14
Chapters ........................................................................
14
21,348
Councils ...............................................................-...........
13
20,646
20,416
Consistories ..................................................................
13
Knights Commander Court of Honour ........................................
306
Thirty-third Degree Masons ..........................................................
167
(Northern Jurisdiction)-Melvin M. Johnson, 33°, Sovereign Grand
Commander, Boston, Mass.; Samuel H . Baynard, Jr., 33°, Secretary General.
Boston, Mass. Meets annually fourth Tuesday in September,

810

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodges of Perfection ..................................................
107
Councils ······-································································
92
Chapters · ........................................................................
89
Consistories ..................................................................
62
Active 33° ......................................,...............~.. .-.~ ................... .
Honorary 33° ............................................................................. .

GRAND lO!JGE OF CALIFORNIA

Membership
208,393
201,316
200,535
198,747
42
1,656

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly speaking,
they should be termed the American Rite and the Scottish Rite, for the
one called York is peculiar in its organized proceedings only to the United
States.
·
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the Cryptic
and the Templar degree.
The Symbolic degrees are conferred in a Lodge and are the Entered
Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They are called
Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is by symbols.
The Capitular degrees are conferred in a Chapter and are the Mark
Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent Master and the Royal Arch.
The supplemental and honorary degree of High Priesthood is conferred
in a Council of High Priests upon those who have been regularly elected
to preside over a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. They are called Capitular
because they are conferred in a Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning
"done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the Royal
Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master. They are
called "Cryptic" because the word "crypt" meai:is a secret vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are the
Red Cross, the Temple· and the Malta. The name Knight Templar comes
from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the temple at Jerusalem
from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the 33rd,
inclusive. In the Southern jurisdiction of the .United States (which includes
all territory south of the Ohio River and west of the Mississippi River)
the organization of the different Bodies, and the degrees conferred by them,
are: Lodge of Perfection, 4° to 14°, inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, 15° to
18°; Council of Kadosh, 19° to 30°; Consistory; 31° to 32°; Supreme
Council, 33°.
In the Northern jurisdiction (which includes all states north of the
Ohio river and east of the Mississippi river) the degrees conferred are :
Lodge of Perfection, 4° to 14°, inclusive; Council Princes of Jerusalem, 15°
and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and 18.0 ; Consistory,19° to 32°; Supreme
Council, 33 °.
GRAND LODGES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED
When
Annual
Proceedings
Organized Communication Reviewed
Designation
Alabama .........••.••..•... A.F.&A.M. June 14, 1821 December
1940
Arizona ·····-······-···-'.•. F.&A.M. Mar. 25, 1882 March

8H

When
Annual
Proceedings
Designation
Organized Communication Reviewed
Arkansas ,•.•.•..·-···-···... F.&A.M. Nov. 21, 1838 November
California •..........•.......... F.&A.M. April 18, •1850 October
2, 1861 September
Colorado ········-········A.F.&A.M. Aug.
1940
8, 1789 February
Connecticut ........•..... A.F.&A.M. July
6, 1806 October
Delaware ..........•....... A.F.&A.M. June
1940
District of Columbia .... F.&A.M. Dec. 11, 1810 December
1940
5, 1830 April
1941
Florida .......................... F.&A.M. July
1940
Georgia ················-·····-·F.&A.M. Dec. 16, 1735 October
1aaho ........................ A.F.&A.M. Dec. 16, 1867 September
1940
6, 1840 October
Illinois ····-··--····-·-··A.F.&A.M. April
1940
12, 1818 May
Indiana •.................••...... F.&A.M. Jan.
1940
8, 1844 June
Iowa ..........................A.F.&A.M. Jan.
1940-1941
Kansas .•....................A.F.&A.M. Mar . 17, 1856 February
1941
16, 1800 October
Kent11cky ......: •.............. F.&A.M. Oct.
1940
12, 1812 February
1941
Louisiana ...................... F.&A.M. July
1, 1820 May
1941
Maine ........................ A.F.&A.M. July
1940
Maryland .................. A.F.&A.M. July 31, 1787 November
Mass·achusetts •..•.... A.F.&A.M. July 30, 1733 December
1939-1940
· Michigan ...................... F.&A.M. Sept. 14, 1845 May
Minnesota ................ A.F.&A.M. Feb. 24, 1853 January
Mississippi .................... F.&A.M. July 2~. 1818 February
1940
1
Missouri .................... A.F.&A.M. April 21, 1821
1940
September
24, 1866 August
Montana .................... A.F.&A.M. Jan.
1940
Nebraska .................. A.F.&A.M. Sept. 23, 1857 June
1941
16, 1865 June
Nevada ....•..................... F.&A.M. Jan .
1940
18, 1789 May
New Hampshire ...... A.F.&A.M. July
1940
Neyv Jersey.................... F.&A.M. Dec. 18, 1786 April
6, 1877 October
New Mexico~ ............. A.F.&A.M. Aug.
1940
New York...................... F.&A.M. Sept.
5, 1781 May
1940
North Carolina ........ A.F.&A.M. Jan.
14, 1787 April
1941
North Dakota .......... A.F.&A.M. June 12, 1889 June
1940
7, 1808 October
1940
Ohio ............................:.F.&A.M. .Jan.
1941
Oklahoma ................ A.F.&A.M. Nov. 10, 1892 February
1940
Oregon ...................... A.F.&A.M. Aug. 16, 1851 June
2, 1731 December
1940
Pennsylvania ............•... F.&A.M. Feb.
1940
Rhode Island ................ F .&A.M. June 25, 1791 May
South Carolina ..........A.F.&A.M. Mar. 24, 1737 March
1941
1940
South Dakota ............A.F.&A.M. July 21, 1875 June
14, 1813 January
1941
Tennessee .................... F.&A.M. Oct.
1940
Texas ........................A.F.&A.M. Dec. 20, 1837 December
16, 1872 September
1940
Utah ..............•............... F.&A.M. Jan .
14, 1794 . June
Vermont ........................ F.&A.M. Oct.
6, 1778 February
Virginia ..:................. A.F.&A.M. May
9, 1858 June
1940
Washington ................ F.&A.M. Dec .
1940
West Virginia.......... A.F.&A.M. May 11, 1865 October
1940
Wisconsin .. :...~ ............. F.&A.M. Pee . 18, 1843 June
1940
Wyoming .................. A.F.&A.M. Dec. 15, 1874 August
Foreign Jurisdictions
Proceedings
Annual
When
Organized
Communication Reviewed
Designation
12, 1905 June
1940
Alberta ...................... A.F.&A.M. Oct.
1940
British Colurnbia...... A.F.&A.M. Feb. 22, 1832 June
1940
10, 1855 July
Canada ···············- ·····A.F.&A.M. Oct.

$12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

When
Annual
Proceedings
Desi-gnation
Communication Reviewed
Organized
Manitoba .................. A.F.&A.M. May 12, 1875 June
1940
New Brunswick............ F.&A.M. Oct. 10, 1867 August
Nova Scotia .............. A.F.&A.M. Jan.
21, 1866 June
1940
Prince Edward Island ................
1940
······- ···- ·····················A.F.&A.M. June 24, 1875 June
Quebec ...................... A.F.&A.M. Oct. 20, 1869 February
1940
Saskatchewan ....•..... A.F.&A.M. Aug.
9, 1906 June
New South Wales .... A.F.&A.M. June
1940
1, 1888 July
New Zealand ............A.F.&A.M. April 30, 1890 May
Queensland .............. A.F.&A.M. April 25, 1904 June
1940
South Australia ........ A.F.&A.M. April 16, 1884 April
1940
Tasmania .................. A.F.&A.M. June 26, 1890 June and Dec.
Victoria .................... A.F.&A.M. April 16, 1884 Quarterly
1940
West Australia ........ A.F.&A.M.
1899 Quarterly
1940
England .............•...............................] une 24, 1717 Quarterly
1940
lreland.........................~ ........................April 6, 1731
December
1941
Scotland............................................... Oct.
1941
15, 1736 February

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS, UNITED ST ATES
As in years past, we are indebted for this patient assembling of the
figures to Brother Charles C. Hunt, Grand Secretary of Iowa. His work is
accepted as official by the entire Masonic press of the United States and
by other governing bodies of the Craft.
Comparative Statistics of Grand Lodges in the United States
Increase"'
Year
Lodges
Members or Decrease
1935 ........................................................................ 16,036
2,765,869
144,402
1936........................................................................ 15,910
2,665,511
100,358
1937........................................................................ 15,826
2,599,250
66,261
1938........................................................................ 15,719
2,557,028
42,222
l 939 ........................................................................ 15,630
2,521 ,651
35,377
1940........................................................................ 15,567
2,489,587
32,064
1941 .............................:,...................,...................... 15,507
2,464,590
24,997

State
Date
Louisiana............................•:... December, 1940
Maine......................................• March,
1941
Maryland................;................ October,
1940
Massacqusetts ................-- .••. August,
1940
Michigan .................................. December, 1940
Minnesota................................ December, 1940
Mississippi............................... August,
1940
Missouri................................... September, 1940
Montana...................................June,
1940
Nebraska.................................. December, 1940
Nevada.......................... ~ ......... April,
1941
New Hampshire .....................April,
1941
New Jersey ..............................December, 1940
New Mexico ...............·-····-···December, 1940
New York................................ December, 1940
North Carolina......................•December, 1940
North Dakota.......................... December, 1940
Ohio .......................................... July,
1940
Oklahoma.......:....................... January,
1941
Oregon ..................................... December, 1940
Pennsylvania...........................December, 1940
Philippine lslands .................. November, 1940
Rhode Island.... _..................... May,
1940
South Carolina ........................December, 1940
South Dakota.......................... December, 1940
Tennessee ................................ October, 1940
Texas ..............,.........................June,
1940
Utah ........ ;................................. December, 1940
Vermont.............. ~ ....................April,
1940
Virginia.. ~ ................................. December, 1940
Washington ...................:........ D~cember, 1940
West Virginia.........................Augus·t,
1940
Wisconsin ............................... December, 1940
Wyoming................................ June,
1940

United States, 1940-1941
State
Date
Alabama .....................................September, 1940
Arizona................................... December, 1940
Arkansas ...............................• September, 1940
California................................August,
1940
Colorado............................ :.... June,
1940
Connecticut............................ December, 1940
Delaware...,.......................... _ June,
1940
District of Columbia.............September, 1940
Florida.................................... March,
.1941
Georgia ..'..................................August, . 1940
Idaho........................................J une,
1.940
Illinois..................................... June, ·
1940
Indiana.................................... December, 1940
Iowa......................................... December, 1940
Kansas ..................................... December, 1940
Kentucky ................................ August,
1940

Lodges
420
39
421
582
147
128
22
47
221

477
81
993
540
546
438
508

· *Increase or
Members Decrease
27,420
137
5,427
13
23,589
54*
126,185
554
29,129
305
33,872
729
5,162
26
20,002
139
20,102
104*
39,111
249
8,925
63*
192,836
4,787
105,811
106*
66,691
184
59,603
687
42,348
59*

Lodges
251
206
121
325
512
302
315
624
136
290
26
81
278
55
1,037
328
124
622
410
171
565
102
43
268
172
391
896
26
103

327
268
165

307
50
15,507

813
*Increase or
Members Decrease
340
20,289
467
34,665
102
28,322
2,215
96,630
163
110,806
47,304
652
21,564
258
86,469
1,209
17,808
l*
411
30,919
3,163
33*
108 .
12,852
1,324
72,363
6,195
82*
244,858
4,524
544
26,211
10,742
180
172,403
915
43,823
987
24,049
23*
2,796
171,881
5,656
225*
14,461
1,178
17,828
325*
14,394
32*
201
35,890
100,618
2,173*
4,448
63
16,362
230
216
38,590
38,919
499
28,981
195
51,109
442
7,805
33*

2,464,590

28,310

3,313*
Net Loss .......................... ;......................................:.............................. ;......... 24,997
Canada, 1939-1940
Date
Alberta ..................................... December, 1940
British Columbia.................... December, 1940
Canada......................................December, 1940
Manitoba.............·-····---December, 1940
New Brunswick.... _................December, 1940
Nova Scotia......................- ..... December, 1940
Prince Edward Is.,.................April,
1940
Quebec.......................•.... _.....- ..December, 1940
Saskatchcwan ..........................March,
1940

Lodges
153
118
569
104
43
84
15
94
198

*Increase or
Members Decrease
10,746
69
13,305
133
93,408
434
10,114
165
5,162
36
8,182
176
1,063
12
13,578
122
12,171
75

1,378

167,729

1,222

INDEX FOR 1941
A
Page

Aahmes Temple, Financing plan for ................................................................ 425
Accounts, Report of Committee on .......................... :..... :......................... :: .•.:.. 612
Activities, Grand Lodge Week, Report of Committee ................................ 667
Adams, Chas. AlbertAppoin ted Trustee of Masonic Homes .............................. :..................... 707
Public Schools Week report ...........................o.:................................ :......... 553
Resolution to amend Sections 26 and 349 ................ :........................... 668
Alamo Lodge No. 122, Trial Record ................................................................ 620
Alhambra Lodge No. 322............................................................. :...............•....,. 560
All States· Lodge No. 593, Trial Record .. ·--·-·-····-··-···················-········--·····----- 619
Alphabetical List of Lodges ................................................................................ 737
Amendments, proposed, Section 210 ................................................................ 664
Anderson, Chas. E., Grand OrganistLetter of thanks .................. ,........................................................................... 674
Resolution with regard to ..................................... :................: ................ :..:. 648
Anderson, Thomas, death of.............................. ,...................;........................ S9l, 414
Annual Election of Officers .................................................................. ,............... 706
Annual Election Date, change in................................:.......... .,......... :: .... :.. .,;.~.::! 424
Annual Election, Sections 15 to 18, read by Grand Secretary .................. 675
Annual Meeting of Grand Lodge, Time of .............. ., ...............:.::........ :..... :•. 666
Annuq.l Oration .................................. :........................................... :......'. .................: 454
Appointive Officer.s ......................................................\ ................................ :......... 706
Appreciation, Expression of, by Grand Master .............................................. 431
Appropriations, by Board of Control... ............................. :............................... 627
Auditor's Report·
Finance Comrnittee on ................................... :................................:....... ~ .... 634
On Grand Secretary...... ·-;·····-····--·---~·--·-······--····----····--······ .. •·····--········--········ 441

B
Barstow Lodge, Constituted ................................................................................ 415
Berkeley Lodge No. 363, Trial Record ...........................................................: 619
Berkeley, U. C. Clubhouse, Report of Committee ........................ 652, 653, 654
Beverly Hills Masonic Building Association .................................................... 560
Birthday congratulations, Rollie W. Miller.. .................................................. 674
Blight, Reyno~d ~ .. Appointed Masonic Information Chairman ......... ·-·:··- 415
Boards, Constitutional.. ......................................................................................~,. 711
~oard of Control, Report 0£... ............................................... :....................I.'.::.j;. 626
Boards of ReliefReimbursement .............................................................................................. 626
Reimbursement of, Report of Finance Committee on ...................... 637
Summary of.........................·...................................................... .}.. ~ .. ~....... t••::Ui 628
Boynton, Albert E., P. G. M., Referred to by Grand Master ............... .417-428
Bruck, Leo, Resolution by.................................................................................... 647
Budget, Report of Finance Committee on ...................... :........................... ..\I.••• 646
Building Projects, Financing..........................................................:...........;;,,.... 664
Burke, Samuel E., Past Grand Master, motion by ...................................... 460
By-LawsAmendments reported .............................................................. :."·--~·'····--····· 438
Report of Committee on __.....................................,.......,."''""""""""''·•-········ 612"

816

INDEX

C

Page

Carlson, C. A. Jr., Greetings.·-··············································'········ ..................... 411

CarpL:~~iat;.~~~-~..~~.'..~~~::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::: ~~~

Report of Finance Committee on..........'.................................................... 641
Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies........................................................,....................: 426
Central California Masonic United States Service Bureau .............,............ 421
Charters, Report of Committee on.:.................................................................. 657
Clausen, Henry C.Annual Oration by................................................................................_........ 454
Visit to Oregon................................................................................................ 416
Clandestine Masonry, Report of Committee............. ~ ..................'..............:..... 649
Clarification of Stated Meeting, Section 118...............:........,..........,:............. 668
Clubhouse. U. C. Berkeley, Report of Committee...................................................... 652
U. C. Los Angeles, Report of Committee................................................. 654
Committee on Correspondence ..........................................................................,. 744
Committee on Correspondence, Report of Finance Committee on .......... 638
Committee on Credentials............................................................................:......... 676
Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities, Report of.......... ,, ...... :........... 667
Committee, Jurisprudence, Report of...............................,.........,....:................. 668
Committee on Pay of Members......................,.....................................:..... " .. - 658
Committee on Policy and General Pui:-poses.................................................. 660
Committees, Standing and SpeciaL......................................................:....708, 710
Communications, Special...............................:..................., ..............................,... 415
Condition of Lodges..................................................................................:......: ... 448
Conklin, Harold W., Dea(h of.........................,..........................................593, 414
Consolidation of Lodges....................................7 ..• ••• : ...., ..................... - _...... :....... 423
Constitution Month Observance Committee............:...............................:..... 666
Report of Committee on............................................................................,. 612
Constitutional Boards...:..........................................:....,....,.............................711, 712
Correspondence Committee, Report of _Finance Committee on................ 638
Correspondence Committee, Report 0£.............................................:.......,...... 744
Courtesy Degrees, Reference to.................................................................:,....... 660
Credential Committee, Report 0£...............,........................................................ 676
Crockett Lodge No. 139, Trial Record .......................................:......,............... 623

D
Decisions of Grand Master.....................,............:................................................ 430
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence on............................................ 668
Defense Area Lodges, regarding help to ..........,............................., ............,.. 644
Degrees, Courtesy, Report of Committee on Policy and
·General Purposes .....................................................................-........,....._. ........ 660
Devotional Service.................................:.......................:......................................... 408
Directors, Masonic Clubhouses.........................................................:................ 712

g::ii~~s:i~~:~ ~~~rt~~~:::::::::::~::::::::::::;::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :~~

Doric Lodge No. 216, Trial Record ..........c........: .............................................. 619
Drytown Lodge No. ~74, Report of Finance Committee on loan............ 641
Dues, Remission of, Report of Committee on Policy and
General Purppses ............................................................................ :.._........... 661
Dyer, Foster G., Death of.............:...~....................................~.............414; 592, 416

)

INDEX

817

E

Page

East Bay Lodge No. .+.W
•
. · 560
Eastern Star, Use of Masonic Title....'.~ ........~ .............:........:.._:••; ......_._.......... 425
East Gate Lodge No. 290..........................................................:..: ..~.:•.~ .......:~.::;. 561
Education, Masonic, Report of Committee on.. :...............:..! .... ..............:.... :~ 664
Educator Lodge, Consolidation •' t
423
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576, Trial Record ...............:........:.................:'.•. 619 ·
Election, Annual..............................................................................................."'~;- 706
Elective Officers of Grand Lodge Since Organization ................................ 726
Emergency Welfare Work·
Grand Master's comments on ...................................,..............................:.-. 419
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes...................... 660
Emigh, John A., Officially received.:...................................:......:........:....'...;:... 571
Employment Bureau, Resolution for pamphlets to be mailed to Lodges 674
Employment Service, Report of Finance Committee on..... .-................:....... 638
Endowment BoardBequests ................................:...........................................:............................. 529
Contributions to .....................................................:...........:,...:.....:..:.....:.:;..;;.. 432
Disbursements ................................................................................................ 528
Masonic Homes, Report of Finance Committee on..................,............. 636
Report 0£.....................:. ...:......:........:...........c.......:••- •• ~~ ........:................:.,.,.,___ 524
Report of Auaitors........_....................................................:........c........,.;,......... 543

i~~~~m~;st:;: f~:t;~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::~-~:::.::::~~ ~~~
Endowment Fund, Masonic Homes, Report of Committee on
Policy and General Purposes...............................-,,.,...............:..,.............;. 662
Extinct Lodges, List of...............................................,....... ~•. -:.....:........:•..•- ......... 723
Eubanks, James R., Superintendent at Deooto.....................,.......... ~ ....,......... 465
Eulogy, "Trellises" by G. Ellsworth Meyer......................,........................... 608
Excelsior Lodge No. 166, Trial Record ....................................................<....... 619

F:

Fidelity Lodge No. 120, Presentation to........:..............,...................,......4t2, 418
Fifty-Year Buttons, Individuals issued to................................:................,.,..... 436
Filmer, William P., Telegram of felicitation to ......................., .................- ... 648
Telegram of appreciation from .......................................................... ~.,..... 674
Finance Committee, Report of (see Report of Committees) ...................... 634
Financing Building ProjectsGrand Master's recommendation 00......................................., .., ............... 431
Report of Committee on...........~~......................................................._....,... 560
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes on................ 664
Fischer, Will H., P. G. M., Referred to by Grand Master.,.......................... 428
Flag CeremonyChange in recommended.................................................................,........,.f.1.. 450
Changes in, not adopted........................................................:...........:.-:..4.. 674
Florence Lodge No. 649, Trial Record ..................................................,•.:,,..... 619
Foothill Lodge No. 564, Report of Finance Committee on Overpaid ·
Dues .............................................................................................:.................... 645
Foreign Grand Lodges,...............................................................,.............:-rlt.. 734

G
Gavel, presented to incoming Grand Master.................:...........................- .. 707
Gavels, referred to by Grand Master............................._.......,....,.•;.,;.:,.;.,S7~, 611

818

INDEX

INDEX
Page

George Washington·
.
. .
.
417
Masonic National Memorial Association ..................................................
R epor t o f Co mmittee on. Policy
and General Purposes ........,. ............... 660
.
23
Golden City Lodge, Consohdatwn of..,... .,.........................- .......... ~--···.---········· 4
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30......................................................................... ., .,..-~ 561
Grand Lecturer-

·

· . . .. 448

!~i~~~;~·:; ~ :. : :~;: :~ ;~:;:~ ;:;: "~'.~ ~!

Monitor and Officers' Manual... .............................·-····-···························:··
448
Observations ········:·····································:··································:···:··········· ·· 449
Omission of Portion of Work. ...............................:............................,......
Reception of Inspectors............................................................._......., ........... 449
Grand Lodge.....:..
675
Addressed by P. G. M. Francis
Keesling;··························.-···~·-·······
Approved revised M o~itor by Ritual ·Committee.......;·····················:·:·· ~~4
Time of Annual Meeting 0£..........................................................•_.... _.....

y.

6

Grand Lodge dues, Unpaid-··'···-··:···················:······:········:······-···············'········· 6~~
Grand Lodge Elective Officers smce organization ...................................... 7
Grand Lodge Officers present..·.·······························-··'········-···············-·········· :0~
Grand Lod_ge per capita tax ............................................"··:···············•················
Grand Lodge Week Activities.

4

~~~~~~e o~o~c:~~~t~::..~~-~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 667

634

Grand Master's Annual Message......................................................................... :;;

iii~~;f;[·~ : : ~ : : : : : _
;: -: :Ji
Cavalcade of Masonic Bodies.................................:;······························· .. ··
· Masonic United States Service Bureau ................ 4412
21
Centra1 C a liforma

l~!~'.~~g~~~~; li ; i:i: : -~; : : : :i: ; :~: :~ li

417
George W as h.mgto n Masonic National Memorial Association .......... 417
Grand Masters'. Conference..................................................................:·······
5

s:;~:.~J ~~'.

: ,: := ::::: : ==; : ::: :::: !::
41

Inter-] urisdictional vmtat1ons ........ :·:······················:·····················;·······-···
424
Investment of Lodge funds ......................._.........................................:···:..···. 430
] urisdictional dispute..........:.........:............................. ,_.................................

819
Page

Leonard, Walter
Long Beach S1·i,11~

414

....... .,...............~.,..... _. 428

~::~~;~ ~=-~-~::::::::_:: :;:: :::='.::::::::::::::::::::::::: : : : : ::::::::'.::~~:=~:::::::~:~ ::;
~::~:thkm~;~-~-~·~·;:::::::::::: :::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=::::::::::::::~~~~~J ::~
Necrology ...........................................................................................:.........,..
Masonic Service Assoc1atton ......,.......................:...........- ...................... ;.~ 419

414

Peninsula ] urisdicticm...........,........,~ .........................................:..............._ .. 425
Pettus Bible...................................................................................................... 418
Philippine Islands...........................,..,..................................,.....:.................... 4 16
Retail bottled liquor dealer. ...:...............................,..,.............;c••••••••• •••••••••• 430
Recommendations ·························-·-·······-·=·-··················-·······:..:..........•...• 431
Special Communications ............:......·.....:.......................·.....:..........................• 415

~~ast: ~; i!::~:~ti~d;~~::::::::::::::::::=:::~::::~::::::::::·:::::~='.::::::::=::::::::::::=:=:: :~~

• Use of Lodge funds for banquet.. ..........~ ...........:..................,,..............'..... 430
Use of Lodge funds for testimonial... ...........................:.................:......... 430
Visitations ··················································.-·'··················································· 412
Walker, Herbert........................................:..................................,................... 414

~g;:i.~r:;~;~,;'.- ;~- - :-.

Grand Master, Gavel presented '"

-~-:~:~:~:==nll
707

Grand Master, presentation of silver service to.....................~:.......·.:::,:.~ ...:., 707
Grand Master portrait, by Finance Committee.......................:..................,... 640
Grand Master's report, Finance Com~ittee report on helping L~
in Defense Areas ............ ·-·············.·····;..................................•.; ............,_.,,,_, 644
Grand Officers, Elective and appointive................................................... ~.-~. 706
Grand Officers if!st,alled.......~ ......'.......:.....~··········'·······················: ..................,... ~-~- 707
Grand Organist, Chas. E . AndersonLetter of th an ks rn ,, II
67 4
Resolution by Leo Bruck, regarding..................................... ::::::::::::~::S 647
Grand SecretaryAnnual Report •, j
435
Accounts :->····-·····································--:................................................:,.}!:.. 441
Amendments to By-Laws ...........:................................................ :.....•.....•:.. 438
D~ath of ~.ohn ~hicher
............,......•............,•..... ~,,tfi.i< 435
Dispensations 1ssuetj...........................,......:...............•........... :....-......... _;;_;;,;. 438
Fifty-year buttons issued ........... :··························:..........:..............:··''"•:...;,-t 436
Lapel button presented to....,...........,......................................, ...~......,.:._;.;.,. 707
_Life Membership resolutions approved..................:............................... _ 438

~ee~~:r:t~µditors

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_-:~~:~::=t: :~f

......,........................
Report of ~inance C~mmittee ' '"
............................,_. ..,.,,a;: 639
Representatives appo1nted .....................:....................,.............•........ :,.;'..~"'·-' 435
Salary f)f.,.,:._.+..,;,............ ___ ...............;··················································-', ......,X. 665
Traveling exp.ense to Grand Secr¢taries' conference in .
Washington, D. $:.,:.-.........~ ..........................:...,_.......~;...... ~~.:·.......,"--... 644

Trial '.Records.-..•..~.·-··································-···-···············..·····----·-·;..,.,o::••;.. 439
Unfinished · hll~n rs'
440

820

. INDEX

INDEX

821

Page

Page

"Grand TreasurerAnnual Report...,.........................................:.............- .......- ...............1...,.,.,_,, 445
Report of Finance Committee on..................................................,.....~....:,. 639
William P. Filmer, telegram of appreciation from .......................... _...: 674
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59, Loan of.........._......- ..................~c.........: .......-.,, 641
Greenley, Joseph S., Special Committee on Ritual... .........................,...;........, 451
Greetings ····-··--····--··,··············'····--····'·········.············--·········-·······--··--·········----"¥"•·· 411
Grievances, Report of Committee.............................................................. ,......... 619
Guardian Lodge Hall dedicated ...................................... _.................::·:······•----: 416

La Mesa Lodge No. 407, Trial Record_........................................:....:..:.....:... 6l9
Landmark Lodge No. 253, Trial Record.....- ..................................... :.~.......... 619
Lapel buttons, Past Grand Master's presented.......................;...... ~ .............. 707 ·
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, Trial Record ...................~ .....................,.... ~ ........ 619
Laurel Lodge No. 245Resolution presented by..- ..................,.....,.,~,._,.,.,-..,._.,...,._.,...........;..;,.570, 644
Trial Record......c•••••••••••••••• - ........................! ......___ ........................................ 620
Leonard, Walter, Death of...;..................- •.- ............,.........~.............:....:...:414, 591
le Progress de l'Oceanie No. 371, Trial Record ....................:.........;............. 619
Life MembershipsGrand Master's recommendation on ............................................................. 431
Resolutions approved.,. ................· ··-·--······················--······-.·····--·········--·438, 674
Life Member whose address is unknown ......................;................................... 663
List of Inspectors...........c...................................................... _ ................................ 731 .
List of Lodges,...........................................:.,..............................-.,....":..................:. 713
List of Lodge!i, Alphabetical...................:...........................:.....................•.......... 737
Loan of Carpinteria Lodge No 444, Report of Finance Committee on.... 641
Loans, Unpaid, Report of Finance Committee on................:......................... 641
Lodge Funds, Investment oL........
424
Lodges, List 0£...........•., ........................................................:.::.......:....................... 713 '
Lodges, List of Extinct.......................................................................................... 723
Lodges, Trial Records 0£.:...................................................;...,.....:...>:.:..,•.:•.,••.:.,~ 619
Lodges, Alphabetical list of...............................- ....:..............,..........4:..........!:,..._ 737
Long Beach Masonic Temple Association...................................................... 566
Los Angeles Clubhouse, Report of Committee on ......................................:. 654

H
Hartman Frank, death of...........................................::.. ~.......:......:........... ~..,4i$1 592
Hawaiia~ Islands, Grand Master's visit to....................................:........:..:..:.: 416
Hay, Arthur D., Addresses Grand Lodge.................................................,.:,:..~.; 611
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458, Trial Record ..................................,...........,.. 619
Hughes, Jacob, Death of..........................;...........~.:.......................:........... Al'~, Si~
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, Trial Record.......................................................,.. 6
Hogan, Charles, Segregation Committee.......................................................,.• 434
Horstmann, Russell C., Resolution by.........................................................,..., 674
Howard Lodge No. 37......................................................- ................................., 562

Ione Lodge No. 80, Resolution presented...~·-·························-···:................~ 569
Inspectors.
Appreciation of service by Grand Lecturer:.............:............................... 448
Check Chart for .....................:......................................................................- .. 449
List of........................':........................................................................,..........,.., 731
Reception of, observation of Grand Lecturer..................,.....:...:...:.......... 449
Installation of Officers...........................:.............................................................. 707

J
John Marshall Lodge No. 636............,...... ,......... :..................................'. ............ 560
Jones, Charles B., Deat~ of........:....:....._. ......................-·······'·······················'·:·· 59 4
Jones, George L., Greetings from ..............:.................................................... . 411
Jurisdiction, Peninsula, recommendation concerning.................................... 425
Jurisprudence Committee, Report of..............................,....,:..."···········-·;......... 668

K
Keesling, Francis V.·
Addressed Grand Lodge.......................................,........:... :.......................,. 675
Greetings from ........................, ....................:.....:.....:....................._...........•:.::.. 411
Kergan, Wesley W., Resolutions presented by............................................. ~ 569
Kimball, Chas. N., Appointed Representative................................,.............., 436
Klinger, Harold F., Presentation to.....:..............._. .................................:..412, 418
·Koford, Edward T., Special Committee on Ritual... ........................................ 451
Kohnke, Wa'shington I., Segregation Committee.......................................,..:. 434

L
Lancaster Lodge, Cornerstone laid.................................................................:·· 415
Lancaster Lodge, Masonic Hall dedicated...............................~·-·······'·······: .... 416
Lancaster Lodge No. 437, Committee report on....,.........,.....................,........... 561

0 •••••••••••• .-. . . . . . . . . . . . . .'. ••••••• • , ;••••••• : ••••••••• : •••••••••,,_

M
Madera Lodge No. 280, Trial Record ....................:.........................................., 619
Mallachowitz, C. E., Resolution to change Flag Ceremony................674, 570
Magazines, Masonic and other subjects......................:..:........................~ ...•..... 663
Marin Lodge No. 191, Trial Re.cord ..............................:..............................:.... 624
Masonic Clubhouse, Council, Berkeley grcetirtgs........................................ 411
Masonic EducationReport ·o f Committee on............................................................,................. 568
Report of Finance Committee on ....................................,..•......;.................. 635
Report of Policy and General Purposes Committee on ...................... 664
Masonic Employment Service, Report of Finance Committee on ............ 638
Masonic HistoryReport of c ·o mmittee on.;...c••••••••••- •••••: .....................................,..,...,•• ,•••~., •• 573
Report of Finance Committee on .........,.................. ~ .............".,..,:......... 635
Masonic HomesAnnual Report..-............- ...........................- ....; ..:.....................c.........~..... 462
Appreciation ..................................................................................................... 467
Au di tor's Report..........................................,..,....:.... :;.,~......•:...i.,.'...........,,....... 468
Covina Home, Admissions......~.............................~............:...........:.......:..,... 522
Alumni ....................................................................................................- 506
Christmas and entertainment cash don:i.tions .................................. 515
Donations to.._.,............................;...............-............_.._;.....,~ ............,.....__. 510
List of Residents..................................................--··············----··:..,~ .. 520
Noteworthy donations .........................;;...............'...:..."............................. 507
N umber of Residents ..........................-.......;...................... :..................... 463

~:rts~:pf;;i~~;1:::::::::::::::=~=:::=::::::::::::::~~i=:'.:::::::=:::::;:::::::: ~~~

822

INDEX
Page

Report of Superintendent.-.....: ........................... .,................................ SOS
Results ...................................................................................................... 464
Special Events..•..'.1 •••••••••.-••••••••••••••••• , ••••••••••.•••••, ............................. ~•••••••• S07
Visitations ····································'··························································· S09
Decoto-Admissions ...................................................................................... S03
Christmas, entertainment cash donations........................................ 493
Died during the year .....: ........................................................................ S04
Donations to...............................:..................;.............:........:....; .........:.:... 490
James R. Eubanks, Appointment oL............c••.••.•••••....•.: ...••••••: •... 46S
Frank B. Hartman, Death 0£.... :...............•...........•....:.. _......•.- .......... 46S
Hospitalization ............................................................................ _. .......... 466
List of Residents .......... ~ ..............................................., ...........•..
497
Number of Residents ........................................:..................................... 463
Outside Relief..............................................................., ................:......... 466
Per Capita Cost.........,......•.................:..........•.•:..........................,.......... 463
Personnel Changes............................................,............•........ ,............... 46S
Report of Superintendent, ................................................................... 486
Visitations to.·-·················-·······················································--··········· 488
Endowment Board, Report of.....................,,....................,.........._........,.:... S24
Entertainment Fund...................................................................................- 467
Per Capita Levy.............................................................................................. 646
Population trends .................................................................:......•............:...... 462
Recommendation, Assessment....................... ,............................................ 467
Silver pl~es ......., ..•.......•.....•.....:............;.....•....................,•.....;................- ...... 466
Whicher, John, Reference to............................,......................................... ·467
Masonic Homes, Chas. Albert Adams appointed Trustee.......................... 707
A . . . . . . . .:

Masonic Homes Endowment BoardReport of Finance Committee ·on.............................................................. 636
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes on.................. 662
Masonic Homes Per Capita Levy ...................................................................... · 646
Masonic. Homes, Report of Finance Committee on.................................... 637
Masonic Information, Committee on.........•..•.:............................................... :. 664
Masonic Lodges, Task of.-....;.......:.............:...............:............................•......... 433
Masonic Magazines and other subjects...:........... '....................... :................::... 663
Masonic Publications, Report of Committee on ............................................ S71
Masonic Service Association.........................................................,....:................. 419
Masonry, Strength of, Grand Master's comments on........ ,...... .426, 427, 428
Masonic Temple Association of S. F., Report 0£•....................................... 6S6
Masonic Temple Association of San Diego......................,............:................ S64
Masonic Temple Association of Santa Barbara, et al... ..............:'. ............... S6S
Masonic Title, use of by others....:...............................................................425-429
Master of Ceremonies, Dana R. Weller appointed ........................................ 707
McClean, Cyril W., Resolution by.................................................................... 674
McCraw, Osbuern, Special Committee on Ritual...:...................................... 4SI
McKinley Lodge No. 347, Trial Record...............................................:.."······ 621
McRae, J. A., Greetings from .............................................................................. S71
Menorah Lodge No. 623, Trial Record.........................:.................................. 619
Message, Grand Master's annual (see .Grand Master) ................................ 412
Meyer, G. Ellsworth, Eulogy by........................................................................ 608
Midway Lodge No. 426.................................................................................:........ S61
Miller, Rollie W., Birthday congratulations extended.................................. 674
Monitor and Officers' Manual, Revision of..............................................4SO, 674
Moore, John R., Chairman Segregation Committee.................................... 434
Morrison, Harold, Resolution presented by................................., .................. S70

INDEX

823

N

Page

National Emergency, Grand Master's comments on................•..........:.......... 418
Necrology, Report of Committee on ......................... :......,..... ~···"'"'-.-\-.,•-····- S90

0
O'Bannion, Richard W., Death 0£............ :......•..,-...:...:•.,,.....;.;•... :.c...;.....•.::,..:;.:_: S94
Officers, Elective of Grand Lodge, Since Organization ................................. 726
Officers, Grand, appointed and installed....................................................706, 707
Organist, Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes............ 66S
Ogden, William B., P . G. M.Lays Lancaster cornerstone........................................................................ 41S
Constitutes Barstow Lodge.......................................................................... 41S
Oroville Lodge No. 103...............................................:...:.. :c•......•..•........•....:••:..• :. S61
Overpaid Dues, Report of Finance Committee on.................................:.......: 644

p
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331, Trial Record .......,........,................................... 619
Past Grand Master, Lapel button presented to..........., ....................:............ 707
Past Grand Masters Present..........:................................................- ............,..,, .. 408
Portraits of Preceding.................-................, .............,..•.;..............:...-..•........~ 646
Pay of MembersReport of Committee on ..............•.. :............................................... ::........•.. 6S8
Report of Finance Committee on ......................:........................................ ~ 643
Per Capita Tax of Grand Lodge..................:...... :.. :.:....., ............~..... :........ ,.6§:5, 646

~~::~sso~~~e t G-~ :ti~;::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::~::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~::::~::::: ~~i
0

1

. Pettus Bible, Presentation 0£............................•.....•........•.....,.....:.....:..•:....Ati; 418
Philippine IslandsRadio Address to......,. ..............................,:......:........_.•,.._,.,..._ .......,..•; ...,..~, -416
Regarding Employment Service............:..............:"'..•..,.•....., ........... "~...... 627
. Point Firmin, Masonic · Building Association.................................... ,........... S64
Policy and General Purposes, Report 0£......,.....................,....• ",,.;.,,...,..:......... 660
Portraits of Preceding Past Grand Masters........:.............- ............................. 640
· Proposed Amendments to Sections 211 i
664
Public Displays, Grand Master's comments on.......•.... ----·····~--A26,· 427, 428
Public Schools Week, Report of Committee on ........•-··--····-························· SS3

Q
Qualman, H. John, Addresses Grand Lodge......................................~':\>~"" SS9

R
Redondo Beach, Masonic Building Association............................. _,. ..,~-~~·· S6S
Redwood Empire Lodge Constituted'.............................................._•.,.....~ •.:;•... 41S
Reimbursements-Boards of Relief ......................................................~...t!O, 637
Remission of Dues, Report of Committee on ........................... ~....,.....:.:-·•'·-. 661
Report of Auditors-·
Masonic I f o :i it··
468
Masonic Homes Endowment Board.......................:_.............~.:'--·•······ ··· S43

824

INDEX

INDEX

825

Page

Page

Report of CommitteesBoard of Control.......:....::.............;...............................................:.....:......~ .... 626
Appropriations ··············'·········································································· 627
Employment Service.......·-················-·································:.......:...... _ 626
Expenses ··········-··················-··••.--·······,···············································-·· 627
Letter from Philippine Islands..........:................................ ~................ 627
Reimbursement Boards of Relief.-..........- .......~•..........:.................... 626
Summary of Boards of Relief... ...................628, 629, 630, 631, 632, 633
On Accounts.............. ;.......................................:............................................. 611
Building Projeit•-················-······························:......:...........•_.................:.. 560
By-Laws .................................................................•........................................ 612
Charters ·····································································-······························-······ 657
Clandestine Masonry...................................................................................... 649
Constitution Month Observance.....................................•................:....;.... 612
Correspondence ·-·······································-·················································· 744
Credentials ···························-··························-············································· 676
Finance Committee report on.............................................................. 639
Finance Committee, Report of.....- ·......................,....................................... 634
Audit of Accounts...............................................................................:... 634
Boards of Relief, Reimbursement of.•.............·-······-'·····'········:.:....:. 637
Bruck, Leo, Resolution Of........:.......,..............~;...........:... ~·-········-······· 647
Budget ,.:..•..•.•....:...........:•..................•...........- ......:..._.•....:......;,....•...646, 647
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444, Loan to..........•·······-·········.;................... 641
Correspondence Committee.......................................................·-········ 638
Grand Lodge Week Activities ..........................- ..,.•......:.................... ·634
Grand Master's Report, Helping Lodges in Defense Areas........ 644
Grand Organist, Resolution Regarding............................................ 647
Grand Secretary's ReporL .......................:.................,..........................·.. 639
Gra'n d Treasurer's Report.................................. _..............................., 639
Horstmann, Russell C., Resolution by................................ ,.....•....... 675
Laurel Lodge No. 245........ - ....................:...., ..:................................... 644
Masonic Education, Report on.................,.......................................... 635
Masonic Employment Service, Report on...................................... 638
Masonic History.................................................:.................................... 635
Masonic Homes, Report on.......................•..:...:........•........................ 637
Masonic Homes Endo.wment Board, Report on....:...................... 636
Overpaid Dues:.......'.....•.........,..............................................:.:................. 644
Pay of Members..........- ........................................: ..•.............................. 643
Per Capita Levy, Masonic Homes .................................................:.. 646
Per Capita Tax...........:..............:......................:..............:.~... ,..........645, 646
Portrait of Grand Master...........................:.......................................... 640
Portrait of Preceding Past Grand Masters...................................... 640
Salaries ...............:-•........:............:...........•..................- .............................. 643
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master............................ ~···· ·· ············ 640
Traveling Expenses of Grand ·secretary to Grand Secretaries'
Conference, Washington................................................................ 644
Telegram of Appreciation to Grand Treasurer William P.
Filmer ............................................................·-································· 648
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues....i..;•....•..•...••:.:•....·.:•.•..•::......................-....... 642
Unpaid Loaris................'......................:....,......................•......;...........,...... 641
University of California Clubhouses...............................................:.. 636
Grand Lodge Week Activities, Report of Committee...........:............ 667
Grievances, Report of Committee on................-'·············'·'·········'·:,......... 619
Alamo Lodge No. 122.•..·-·········-·····························:..............:............. 620
Berkeley Lodge No. 363....·....•....';.......,..•.:.:.;:.:..•........•...:....,.................. 619

Crockett Lodge No. I .W
623
Doric Lodge No. ~ J '
•
619
El Cajon Valley Lodge No, 576......- ..•............;....................,:......1~~..i:: 619
Excelsior Lodge No. 166................................: ..,.....-....•.~•• ;..•, •..~- 619
Florence•Lodge No. r,.w
619
Humboldt Lodge No. 79....._..............................__ ,_,...,--. ......-.4(... R< 619
La Mesa Lodge No. 407._ ••,.....•............:......•.....,.,.•.,...~••. ,.,.~····...; •.••.,,, 619
Landmark Lodge No. 253............•.- ............:....... ,.~···-·-······.·-·······"'v 619
Las Palmas Lodge N.o. 366...........................,......- .....•......,......... _.~ 1• 619
Laurel Lodge No. 245..........................•························-···-:-·····.,.-.-···.- · 620
le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371...................'................,•..•.,..;.... 619
Madera Lodge No. 280.......................................................- ..o:••_ •.,._ •• 619
Marin Lodge No. 191......:.................................:.................-·-····-.;..•; 624
McKinley Lodge No. 347..............................................................-_, .. 621
Menorah Lodge No. 623.......·-·······-···················'···""·-··········..·•t-·····-"" 619
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331.......................................,....•..•..,,..,...:..,. 619
Seal Rock Lodge .No. 536...............•:...............-...,.,......... ·--•···· ·-·-···~: 619
Sequoia Lodge ~ o. 349...........:...................,......•........:..................624, 625
Sun Garden L"odge No. 530....................•......................, •.... _..,.•.....,.,. 619
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511......................•.......,..;.,..........:...................... (\19
Union Lodge No. 58......................................~ ..:..........'············:············ 619
On ] urisprudence, Report of Committee.................................................. 668
Adams, Chas. Albert, Resolution to Amend Section 26 and 349.. 668
Clarification of Stated Meeting........................,.....................•........... 668
Decisions of Grand Master.................,....................................·············~ 668
Grand Master Decisions.... _.....................................•...........,.....,••_ __, 668
Life Membership Resolutions Appro:ved........................- ...;.._·-··• 674
Resolution to Amend Sections 26 and 349.............,....,.•.........,.......,.. 668
Section 118 (first sentence) Amended........,..............................:.:.. 668
On- Masonic Education (Masonic Information) ..............•........... ~---··' 568
On Masonic History.................................................... _................•...~.......... 573
On Masonic Publications...:....................................- ..........- ........................ 571
On Masonic Temple Association..........................;................... _.............. 656

g~ ~=~r~~of[e~b·~·;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::~:::::: ~~~

\

On Policy and General Purposes ............ _..,..... _. .......:..............._._ ..._ 660
Constitution Month Observance, On.•................•.....•. -~•..:.....,...,..... 666
Courtesy o ·e grees, On..~ ....~..............~.......,....,.,..........·....•....•...-............... 660
Emergency Welfare Work. ....................................:......:.;'.._..........;...,., 660
Employment Bureau Pamphlets, Resolution on ..........'-······-674, 675
Financing Building Projects............................................................664, 665
George Washington National Memorial ,Association, On............ 660
Life Member whose address is unknown............•...:..........-:....;.., 663
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund...........:...............:..... ~....••:;....t,,. 662
Masonic Education Committee, On..............................,1-•••••,,~14 664
Masonic Information Committee, On.............:.......•........,..........-.,;.,, 664
Masonic Magazines and other subjects...................;......-................,,. 663
Notice of Suspensions, 011
661
Organist, () 11
665
Proposed Amendments to Section 210........ ·-···'·•····-·-···-··~••..,.... 664
Remissio!I of Dues.........................................................:..:..~.....,..;.;...;,..... 661
Resolution for pamphlets to be mailed to Lodges................674, 675
Salary of Grand Secretary, On..............................._.•.. ~."_;_....:......... 665
Time of Annual Meeting of Grand Lodge.......................,,,.~······-·· 666
On Public Schools W .-l·i.;
.
553

826

INDEX

INDEX
~e-

On Returns, Report of Committee............................................................ 578
Special Ritual Committee............:.....................·-··············'·········'················ 659
Special Taxation Committee.............................·................:.......................... 669
Report of Grand Secretary.................................................................................. 435
Report of Finance Committee on............................- .......:c....................... 639
Report of Grand Treasurer.................................................................................. 445
Report of Finance Committee on...................................................... 639
Report of U. C. Berkeley Clubhouse................................................652, 653, 654
Report of U. C. Los Angeles Clubhouse..........................................654, 655, 656
Representatives Appointed.:................................................ -~............~.................. 435
Resolutions .............................................................................................................. 461
Grand Master Presents.........................;.... .-................................... - ...........-:-6! 1
Pamphlets to be mailed to Ledge$............................................................ 674
Presented .......................................................................................:.................. 569
Returns, Report of Committee on..........,......,.........................c•••••••••••••••••••••••• 578
Rising Light Lodge No. 397................................................................................. 563
Ritual Committee, Monitor revised and approved by Grand Lodge........ 674
Ritual, Report of Special Committee............................:..................................... 659
Russell, George, Greeiings ........................................................- ........................ 411
Russian River Lodge No. 181....................;............, ........:..........................•..:..... 564

s

Page

The Gardens Lodge No. 621, Rep~rt of Finance Committee on ........... ~ .... 645
Time of Annual Meeting of Grand Lodge.........,............................................ 666
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master................................................................ 640
Traveling Expenses of Grand Secretary to Grand Secretaries'
Conference at Washington, D. (·.
644
Trials, Records Reported................................................................~........~......... 439
Triangle Lodge Hall Dedicated....................................:.......•....................•.- .....: 415
Trustees of Masonic Homes ..........................................................;..•__......- ..... 712
Chas. Albert Adams Appointed .............................................................._ .• 707

u
U. C. Berkeley Clubhouse, Report of Committee.......................................... 652
U. C. Los Angeles Clubhouse, Report of Committee.................................... 654
Unfinished Business, Reported by Grand Secretary.................................... 440
Union Lodge No. 58, Trial Record ...........................................~.,........- .•~......... 619
University of California Clubhouses, Report on ..:.......................................... 636
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues, Report of Finance Committee on.................... 642
Unpaid Loans, Report-of Finance Committee on.......................................... 641

v
Visitors ] •,,..,.,, ,

Salary of Grand Secretary, Committee Report on...................................... 665
Salaries, Report of Finance Committee on ...................................................... 643
San Diego, Masonic Temple Association oL..................,:....:..•................... 564
Santa Barbara, et al, Masonic Temple Association...................................... 565
Sciots, Long Beach, Reference to by Grand Master.................................... 428
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536, Trial Record .........................................·-············ 619
Section 26, Constitution, Resolution to Amend............................................ 668
Section 118 (fiirst sentence) Amended.......................:.............:_.................... 668
Section 210, Proposed Amendments.................................................................. 664
Section 349 Ordinances, Resolution to Amend ...................... :.................:... 668
Segregation Committee, App9inted.......................................................·.·········;·· 434
Committee on, Report 0£.•....•..•.........:..........•- ...........:...........:..••.........•...... 452
Sequoia Lodge No. 349, Trial Record .... :•...- ...........: .................................624, 625
Sherman, William A., P. G. M., Referred to by Grand Master................ 428
Silver Service, Presented to Lloyd E . Wilson................... _............................ 707
Smith, Frank M ., D . G. M., Dedicates Triangle Lodge Hall.................... 415
Smith, Frank M., Endowment •Repott..........:.....................c•••••••••.. '.•••••••... •••.. 524
Snape, Rev. John, Death <if•••.•...•...•.•.r . . ....... ...... ..; .,.. _ . . : .............. . ::.. : . ...... '.. ...... . 592
Special Committees, List 0£..........,...:........•..... :.•- .......................................... : .... 710
Special Committee on Ritual... ........·...............:......:............,.........................451; 659
Special Taxation Committee............................................................................... 669
Standing Committees ......................................................., ...................................... 708"
Stephens, Edward L., Presentation of Gavel...............................,.................. 707
Summary, Boards of Relief..........:................... .'.-.~·············-'···················'···628, 633
Sun Garden Lodge ~o. 530, Trial Record...................................................... 619
Sunnyvale Lodge No. SIL, Trial Record ........................................................ 619
Suspensions, Notice 0£., ........•............:..:....................<. ......; ....: ........... ...;... . . .... ..... 661

¥:

T
Taxation Committee, Report of Specia.L;..................:.............•........:............ 669
Telegram, to Grand Treasurer, Wm. P. Filmer......................,....-:········•->w··- 648.

827

408

w
Walker, Herbert, Death .,f
414, 593
Warlow, Chester H., Appointed Grand Lecturer........................................ 415
Warren, Earl, Grand Master's Reference to...................- ...... .'~..,_.........,.,_.,., 571
Washington, George, National Memorial Association...............................• 660
Webster, Albert Bradford, Death o i
591
Welcome Lodge No. 2~~
562
Welfare Work, Emergency~ ......:................................................................ _....~ .• 660
Weller, Paul G., Death ,, j
594
Weller, Dana R.Appointed Master of t'ct'l'H'•"li('·
. . . . ••• . . .
. ................ 707
Eulogy, John Whicher...............................................................................m 605
Whicher, John, Death of
. . . . . ........................ 414
Whicher, John, Lapel button of, presented to Grand Secretary................ 707
Whicher, JohnEulogy for ............................................................................................_ _ _ 605
Funeral .,r
415
Reference to by Leon 0. \~ h i1 • c- i l
. . ........... 435
White, Toler R., 1 'r,..;.vu l
.. ... . . ....... . . . 408
Addresses Grand [ _.n~ l f.!'.t'
559
Whiting, Randolph V., P. G. M., Appointed Representative ........... _....... 435
Whitsell, Leon 0 ., P. G. M.Appointed Grand Secretary................................................................~-..... 415
Appointed r~ .. ,,,.,,,,.,.1;1 til1·
. . 436
Winder, Heber, Death ,,(
~ 1 5. 594
Wilsort, Ezra, ~etings .................................................................................... 411
Wilson, Lloyd Earl, Biography d
401
Wood, Leslie E., Visit to Nevada ............................................................. :.~ 417
World Situation, Grand Master's Comment on.....................................•-...i 432

