HENRY ,CHRISTIAN CLAUSEN
GRAND MASTER

HENRY CHRISTIAN CLAUSEN
Grand Master
1954~1955

Henry Christian Clausen, eight-ninth Grand Master of the Grap.d
Lodge of California, ended an active and constructive year in that office when he installed his successor October 28, 1955. The record of
his travels serving the Craft, as recorded in these Proceedings, 'offers
ample evidence that the Office of Grand Master is an exacting one and
places great demands upon the time and talents of. one elected to that
position.
Brother Clausen is. a native San Franciscan, having been born in the
City by the Golden Gate June 30, 1905. He attended the public schools
in the elementary, secondary and high school divisions. Death of his
father intercepted his -high school attendance and threw upon Brother
Clausen's shoulders the role of breadwinner for himself, his mother and
sisters. He completed his high school, college and law education at night,
while employed during the .day. He was admitted to the bar and embarked upon a private law practice in 1927. His practice has been a distinguished one, including a term as Assistant United States Attorney
for the Northern District of California. When the Golden Gate Bridge
was under construction, he served as General Counsel for its Chief Engineer, Joseph B. Strauss.
On July 17, i 926, he married Virginia Palmer, and they have a
splendid family consisting of Henry, Jr., Florian, Donald and Karen.
Raised in Ingleside Lodge No. 630 on May 31, 1935, he rapidly took
an active part in all its affairs. Elected Master, in 1940, Grand Master
Wilson appointed him Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge in which capacity he served until October, 1941. In preparation for the positions
of distinction, which were forseen for him, he was assigned service on
many of ·the important committees of the Grand Lodge, and in 1951 he
was elected Junior Grand Warden. He progressed successively through
the various offices until his election as Grand Master on October 15,
1955.
Brother Clausen has paralleled his Grand Lodge interest with activity in the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite in which he was coroneted
a Thirty-Third Degree Mason on October 23, 1953. Brother Clausen
was appointed the Deputy for the Scottish Rite in California, succeeding
Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling, and, at the meeting of the
Supreme Council held in Washington, D. C., in October 1955, he was

elected an active member of the Supreme Council and designated Sovereign Grand Inspector General for California.
During World War II Brother Clausen volunteered his services to
the United States Army and was assigned to the Department of the
Judge Advocate General in Washingt on, D. C. He was appointed a
member of the Special Presidential Appeal Board for spy trials and
afterward s served as a member of the Army Pearl Harbor Board of
Inquiry. Secretary of War Henry L Stimson later appointed him in
charge of the Secretary's personal investigation of the Pearl Harbor
disaster.
Perhaps Brother Clausen's greatest service in civic affairs has been
in behalf of the free publi<: school system of which he is an outspoken
advocate. He has long been identified with free public school education
in San Francisco, and in more recent years he has championed it statewide. He has devoted his time and talents without fee to the protection
of the free public school system and to the preservation of the great principle of separation between church and state, which guarantees the rights
of all but permits no favors to special interests regardless of who or what
they maybe.
All Grand Masters of the Grand Lodge of California are distinquished for some particular trait or contribution, and Henry Christian
Clausen will always be remembered for his sound convictions and his
forthright courage in declaring and defending them.

I LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M:.~:. <;7rand
Lod 'e of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Califom1~, do
h re~ certify that the following pages contain a true and fa1t?ful
:ans~ipt of the proceedings of that body ~t its one-hundr~ sixth
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of S~n Francisc~, on
Monday, the 24th day of October, A. L. 5955, and terminated on Fnday,
the 28th day of October, A. L. 5955.

I have hereunto appended my
ofBcial signature and have afBxed
the seal of the M.'. W. ·.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the ofBce of the Grand·
Secretary, th:is fifteenth day of
November, in the year of Light,
five thousand nine hundred and
ftfty-ftve.

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M. ·. W. •• GRAND LODGE
of

111rrt anh Arrtptrh ilasnns
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
ATITS

106th ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Monday, October 24, A. D. 1955, A. L. 5955
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 28, A. D. 1955, A. L. 5955
Copyright 1955 by Grend Lodge F. & A. M. of Celifornie
Printed in the United Stetes of Americe. All rights in this book ere reserved.
No pert thereof mey be reproduced in eny manner whetsoever without written
permission from the Grend Lodge of Celifornie, except thet quotations mey
be embodied in reviews by such other Grand Jurisdictions as have been
recognized officially by this Grend Lodge. For information address Grend
Secretery, 25 Van Ness Avenue, Sen Francisco 2, Calif.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

7

ONE HUNDR ED SIXTH ANNUA L COMMU NICATI ON
The Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One Hundred Sixth Annual
Communication in the Civic Auditorium, San Francisco, on Monday,
October 24, A. L. 5955, at 10:00 A.M.
Roll Call disclosed the presence of the following:
0PPICERS oP THE GRAND LoooE
M.·.w.·.H ENRY C. CuusEN.............- ............•..•.......••......Grand Master
R.·.w.·.ED GAR V. STEWART, JR.•..•..•........•.•.•.•...•..Deputy Grand Master
R.·.w.·.L . HAROLD ·ANDBRSON..............................Seniot Grand Warden
R.·.w.·.L oo E. ANDERSON ..•.......................•..........•Junior Grand Warden
v:.w:.Eo WARD H. SIEMS, P. G. M •....... ········-····-·······Grand Treasurer
v:.w:.LL OYD E. WILSON, P. G. M •........ :..... :...............Grand Secretary
v.·.w.·.EL BERT W. DAVIS............•...............•......•.....- ....•Grand Lecturer
v.·.REVEREND WILLIAM E. McCORMACK.............•.•Grand Chaplain
w.·.CLAR E 'B. CAMPBELL......•.....................Awtant Grand Lecturer
W. '.RALPH M. FooTE...............................ksi.!tant Grand Lecturer
w.·.ARTH UR J• .IV.HN•..••...........•.........•.......A.ssutant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.RAYMOND G. TAYLOR ... ,................. .....Assistant Grand Lecturer
w.·.DoNA LD G. CAMPBELL ........................Assi.ftant Grand Lecturer
w.·.CLA~K H. SHAW..•..........................••...Auistsnt Grand Lecturer
W. ·.MILTON D. SARRO.....,....•.•....•..........•.•.••.-··-····-···Orand Orator
w:.PAUL A. PPLUEGER ............... _.........Assistant Grand Treasurer
W. ·.HENRY D. OLIPHANT......................•.Assistant Grand Secretary

W. ·.IRA W. C.0BUJtN••:•......•.....................•.••..••.,.••..•.•_Granicf Marshal
w:.SIDNE Y L. CRUPP..•.................................Grand Standard Bearer
w.·.MAcD owELL GARDNER............................•.Grand Sword Bearer

W. ·. W. S. L. ·Loo·································-·········.,.•···Gnncl Bible Bearer
W.".RALP H T. MBRRIAM......................•...........Senior Grand Deacon
W.".LESTER S. McELWAIN......................•......•••Junior Grand Deacon
W.' .JOHN M. Lms.-·-································-·····-~or Grand Steward
W. ·.MAURICE B. Ross ......................................./.,,.,, Grand Steward
W. ·.J. FRANK McCLORY.................••..•.• - ........•...~ .••Grand Pursuivan t
w.·.CHAR LES E. ANDERSON ......................................Grand Organist
W. ·.ALVIN A. HoRWEGB........••••..•...•....•........- ..................0..and Tiler

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES
Very Reverend WILLIAM E. McCoRMACK, Grand Chaplain

M. ·.w.·.osCAR LAWLER
M ••• w .•. CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS
M:.w:.ARTHuR

s. CRITEs

M:.w:.GEOR6E L. JoNES
M:.w:.CHARLEs M. WoLLENBERG
M:.w:.LEON o. WHITSELL
M. ·.w. ·.LLovo E. WILsoN
M:.w:.LEsuEE. WooD
M:.w:.JoHN R. MooRE
M:.w:.EDwARD H. SIEMS
M.·.w.·.ELLswoRT H MEYER
M:.w:.ARTHuR PAULSEN
M.·.w.·.touis

c. DRAPEAU

M ••• w ••• ARTHUR M. WARREN
M ••. w .•• FRANK HARWELL, JR.

2353 Officers and representatives from 604 Chartered Lodges and
18 Lodges under dispensation, and 1,110 Past Masters, and 12 distinguished guests from other jurisdictions, were reported as present and the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, following
which the Flag of Our Country was received.
The Grand Master announced that in opening Grand Lodge he had
used the gavel presented to him by EI Rancho Lodge U. D. on the occasion of its institution.
The Grand Master called attention to the presence of Worshipful
George Howe Buttrick, Master of Morning Star Lodge 68 in 1905 and
Secretary of that Lodge since December 14, 1911, and today celebrating
his 93rd birthday. Brother Buttrick received a standing ovation.
The Grand Secretary announced the appointment of M. W. Henry
C. Clausen as the Grand Representative of the United Grand Lodge of
England near the Grand Lodge of California and also his election as
an active member of the Supreme Council, A. & A .S. R., and his ele~
vation as Sovereign Grand Inspector General.
The Grand Master made the following appointments to the Com. mittee on Policy and General Purposes: vice Past Grand Masters Miller
and Wardlow and Grand Marshal Coburn: Past Grand Master Arthur
M. Warren and Brothers Ralph Head and Ben Sorrells.
All of the above appointments were made by the Grand Master for
this Communication only.

9

Most Worshipful Sir:
Pellow Members of the Grand Lodge:
Brethren all:
My text comes from the Book of Psalms i~ whic~ the aspirations of
a great people is recorded in prayer and praise. Chief of these p~alms
· the 23rd which may be summarized as was done by a small child to
is "The Lord is my shepherd, what else could I want!" But a better
saJttmg of it is to be found in the prophecy of Isaiah. the 55th chapter
~d the 6th and 7th verses: "Seek ye the ~rd while he ma! be found,
call ye upon him while he is near: let the wic.ked forsake his way, and
the unrighteous man his thoughts and let him return unto t~e Lord.
and he will have mercy upon him: and to our God, for he Will abundantly pardon."
The function of the chaplain in a regularly constituted Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons is to conduct the devotions of his Lodge
and bear before the throne of the Heavenly Grace the spiritual..nee~s
of his brethren; "to allure to brighter worlds and lead the way. This
privilege is no small responsibility. Never d_oe~ a. man set. forth ui:ion
this undertaking without being aware of the hm1tations of his humanity,
and of the imperfect tools of language which he must use, not to say.
of the exhaustible resources of his own spirit.
The cruciaJ feature of our troubled world is to be found in its tragic
divisions. We have often dreamed of a world united, but our lab~rs
seem all too inadequate until we remember that all men have a native
capacity to pray. As Carlyle stated in a letter to a friend: "Pr~yer is
and remains the native and deepest impulse of the soul of man. The
fact is that somewhere in every man there is the ca:pacity for worship
and prayer, for the purposeful apprehension o~ <?od. and th~ response
of gratitude and love for Him. Is this not the distinctive quality of man
and the noblest faculty which ·h e possesses?
. In the instructions given in the second degree we are retninded of
the five senses: hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling and tasting. As man
reaches up through the physical to the spiritual, ~e could lean>: n_othing
of ethics without contact with the physical. So 1f there are limits beyond which human investigations and explorations into the unknown
may not go, it is because of the limitations of the five physical se~s.es.
Not even the extension of those senses by the marvelously . sensitive
instruments of science may overcome, in the last analysis, their fundamental limits. Except for one factor----prayerl-th e incredible gathering
of these physical capacities into their noblest use. Prayer becomes.
·
indeed, a sixth and indispensable sixth sense.

11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brute beasts hear, see, feel, smell, and taste, as do we. But they
gamer no facts of science, win no truths, formulate no laws through
these senses. More than flve physical senses are necessary to perceive
the relationship between thing and thing and life and life. That factor
is perception, the soul or spirit which differentiates man from all other
living beings. So in Masonry we are elevated from the Boor of the
temple by flve steps of five senses to the more sublime reaches of knowledge. We teach a sensitivity to the Great Architect of the Universe
which is useless until we remember our sixth sense, namely, the capacity to commune with the Father of our spirits. I do not state the case
too strongly when I say that the most important part of any ritual is
the prayer. And for candidates for further light, I am sure that their
moments alone in the presense of Deity, where their audible or silent
prayer is heavy with spiritual yearning, are the most crucial of all.
Brethren, we must clothe that ceremony with devout respect. No rustling of papers at the Secretary's desk. No whispered conversation on
the sidelines. No muffled laughter from the anteroom. Nothing disturbing to the solemnity of this occasion is excusable when a man stands
alone before God and reaches out with his highest and holiest hope
toward the best that we know and has a right to believe that all his
new-found brothers are there to meet with him in the presence of the
·
Most High God.
Prayer is one of our richest privileges. It excels the privileges of
all the other senses, however delightful and rewarding they may be.
Sir Wilfred Grenfell, who robustly served his fellowmen in Labrador
through many hardships and many joys once wrote: "The privilege of
prayer to me is one of the most cherished possessions, because faith
and experience alike convince me that God himself sees and answers,
and his answers I never venture to criticize. It is only my part to ask.
It is entirely his to give or withhold, as he knows best. 1£ it were otherwise, I would not dare to pray at all. In the quiet of the home, in the
heat of life and strife, in the face of death, the privilege of speech with
God is inestimable. I value it more because it calls for nothing the
wayfaring man, though a fool, cannot give--that is, the simplest expression of his simplest desires. When I can neither see, nor hear, nor
speak, still I can pray so that God can hear. When I finally pass through
the valley of the shadow of death, I expect to pass through it in conversation with him."
No man need suspect that he lacks the basis for the exercise of this
privilege. Whatever soul inhabits the body which is yours has access
to God through prayer. Let us not now pause to dwell upon the art of
prayer, although its further cultivation would be of inestimable value
to all of us. Let us just now think only for this moment of what prayer
may mean to us: that desire for a better life which animates us all at
our best moments, that search for the means to improve the social organization of men, that desire to be a full member of an infinite family

which is never ultimately broken. All this is prayer. We must know
that wherever we may be, we are not far from the All-seeing Eye and
th ever loving Heart. "I know not where his islands lift their fronded
pa~ms in air. I only know I cannot drift beyond his love and care."

10

So let us relax our posing and be natural with One who understands
the secret longings of our hearts. No man can deny this privilege to
us since it is God's gift to each one. Perhaps we should accept it
oftener. Perhaps we should remember that He listens more to our
spirits than to our words. Perhaps we have no greater lack than to
neglect this privilege. Here the words of the prophet Isaiah: "Seek
ye the Lord while he may be found: call ye upon him while he is near;
let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts:
and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him: and
to our God. for he will abundantly pardon."
In the early days at the dawn of history, the conquest of a people
was never complete until something was done with the gods and sacred
implements of worship belonging to the conquered people. If these
materials were destroyed or carried away to be derided, spat upon, and
blasphemed, the subjected people would, it was thought, submit the
more readily to their conquerors. They would be powerless, since no
aid could be had from their gods. In early Jewish history there was
some tendency for their several conquerors to believe that the secret
of the Hebrews was to be found in their sacred vessels, their temples,
their scrolls. However, tragic as the result of premeditated destruction
of these sacred possessions might be, this people thoroughly rebuked
their aggressors by an undying faith and the indestructible religion.
Through the voice of the prophets we see them still in communion with
Jehovah. After the long exiles they sought to build a new temple which
they had carried all the time in their hearts in spite of captivity. Here
is the classic picture of a people greatly distressed but not defeated
since their trust was reinforced by their continuous conversation with
the God of their fathers who could not be reduced to images or temples
or books.
When Solomon was ready to dedicate his temple ·h e offered a
priceless prayer. It is recorded that he stood before the altar of the
Lord in the presence of all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth
his hands toward heaven and said, "Lord God of Israel, there is no
God like thee, in heaven above, or on earth beneath, who keepest covenant and mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their
heart." Solomon knew full well that even the wondrous temple which he
had built was not to be identified with God for he said, "Behold, the
heaven of ·heavens cannot contain thee; how much less this house that
I have builded. Yet have thou respect unto the prayer of thy servant,
and to his su,pplication, 0 Lord, my God, to hearken unto the cry and
to the prayer, which thy servant prayeth before thee today: that thine

13

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

eyes may be open toward this house night and day." The history of
the religions of the world is richer because of this unconque rable insight: that God cannot be vanquishe d nor destroyed .
In our day the ravages of war and the inevitable tensions of postwar
years 'have alike possessed a fiendish threat to man's persistent belief
that the Great Architect of the Universe is also the governor of history.
Men whose insights were limited became fearful that they had lost all
in the swift incursion of social and political upheavals. But shining
ever brighter in the moral firmament has been the fellowship of faith
in temple, in church, in home and in the hearts of men. A renewed interest in the things of the spirit has developed not so much out of our
distress as out of our clearer vision. Now we see with refreshed clarity
that Paul was right when he declared that all things work together
for good to them that love God. We do not minimize the continued
threat to the sources of our power, but we see evidences of renewed
allegiance to human freedom and dignity, and a spiritual earnestnes s
about the deeper meanings of all life.
Along with the other great movements affecting the lives of our
contemporaries, Masonry is having such a resurgenc e of strength as
to give us all cause for rejoicing. Lodges are being multiplied and men
are seeking entrance in numbers heretofore unknown. Churches, too,
are recapturin g the attention of people so that membership and attendance is apparentl y everywhe re increasing. Religious establishments
of every kind along with their multitudinous progeny, social and character building agencies are enjoying expansion and extension. Books
and pamphlets and articles upon spiritual topics were never more
numerous or in demand. But in all of this there needs to be a reorientation beyond these evidential expressions of social solidarity and cooperation, namely, a better understan ding and practice of prayer. I am
serious about this while speaking to you, my brothers in the Masonic
fraternity. A restored prayer life within our lodges would revive the
genius of our craft.
Billy Graham and others who have been speaking to the spiritual
needs of our generation have emphasized this need for prayer. Norman
Vincent Peale has told me that all he has written in his famous book,
The Power of Positive Thinking, is summed up in a question: "Why
.
not try prayer power?" Indeed, why not?
. Critics may d_eride and ask, "Now really, do we need prayer? Or is
it merely an elective in the course of life. an e1ective that appeals to some
and lea:es others cold? Or is it perhaps a delicacy like Sunday dessert,
something for a special occasion? Or is it a kind of first aid to be used
~hen the bleeding is great and you can't get a doctor? Or is it a port
m a storm, a last resort, or final spasm of the human spirit which is
answered only when man is in his extremity and God ·h as at long last
his opportuni ty?

The answer which you and I propound through our fraternal loyalties is unequivocal. We do need prayer and we need it constantly .
It is the essential ingredient which makes life both endurable and happy.
It is like vitamins. It ought to be a part of our daily fare, building us
up in strength and fortifying us against the assault of our enemiesespecially the deadly microbes of fear, doubt, greed and pride. Along
with daily bread, the soul of man needs daily prayer, for only thus will
we have strength to stand up against the forces of destruction.
There is another reason why we stand in constant need of prayer.
It is not only its strengthen ing power we need; but we need its fellowship both with God and with one another. There is no place where we
are so conjoined in natural and satisfying fraternal fellowship than where
we pray together. Many a brother has sought the sanctuary of his
lodge with heavy heart and dispiriting loneliness, almost afraid to enter
the lodge for fear he would be hurt by indifference and coldness again.
Through the prayer, through its mysterious capacity to lift him up into
the presence of the best that we know, he has been able to forget himself. and flnd both God and his brother. Many a brother has suffered
confusion and frustration s. His way was dark and frightful until he
sat in lodge with men who prayed as he prayed. Then he has seen in
greater perspectiv e what he must do. Prayer may not reveal the uncertain future but it will always show us the next step to take toward
the light. Many a brother has feared himself most and has sought the
shelter of the lodge where great moral principles are extolled, and brothers who believe in him have given him the reassuranc e of the fraternity as they have prayed together. His temptations to despair have
often been exchanged for temptations to hope, as he has heard his
chaplain pray that God would so influence our hearts and minds that
we may each one of us practice out of the lodge those great moral duties
which are inculcated in it.
This is not all that prayer does. The same prayer that dispels our
separatene ss, that lights our path toward tomorrow in gladness, that
releases the captives to despair will also enrich us beyond our capacity to
imagine. Prayer shifts attention from worldly and transient occupations to the permanen t constructions of the houses not built with hands,
eternal in the heavens. Prayer releases us from bondage to our possessions which moth and rust corrupt and thieves break in and steal, and
gives us security in heavenly treasure.
All that I have been saying is not new information. It is said by
way of renewed emphasis. And it will take a little time to gain the
superlative benefits of which I have been speaking. Our problem may
be that a postponed development of a prayer life awaits greater freedom and leisure than we have just now. I can sympathiz e with this
problem. Remember the story of the man who could never catch up
with himself and his dream of everything .at last being completed. His

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

nightmare revea]ed that our cJuttered schedu]es and pretense at busy
occupations are poor excuses indeed for our Jack of effort and organiution. We can do what we want to do. You win remember Russe]]
Davenport's extensive artide in Fortune magazine a coup]e of years
ago on the Great American Revo]ution. In this superb artide is a
wonderfu] tribute to the growth and deve]opment of our great country.
He reminded us of the foundations from which we have erected our
structure of government. Our fathers were praying men. Among the
sections of that same issue was an articJe titled, "Busy, Busy Peop]e."
It underscores again the indefensib]e American habit of thinking that
by being busy, occupied, rushing hither and thither, we are accompJishing our destiny. He points out, however, that we may have broadened
our cu]ture but we have not deepened it. OnJy a nation at prayer under
God can be a nation strong enough to withstand the demands of history
and the erosions of secu]arism.
Richard C. Trench has put it this way:
"Lord, what a change within us one short hour
Spent in thy presence wi]] avaiJ to makeWhat heavy burdens from our bosoms take,
What parched grounds refresh as with a shower!
We knee]. and aU around us seems to Jower:
we rise, and an. the distant and the near
Stands forth in sunny out1ine. brave and dear;
We knee], how weak; we rise, how fun of power!
Why therefore, shou]d we do ourse]ves this wrong,
Or others-th at we are not a]ways strong:
That we are overborne with care,
That we shou]d ever weak or heart1ess be,
Anxious or troub]ed, when with us in prayer,
And joy and strength and courage are with thee?"

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

15

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
HENRY C. CLAUSEN,

Grand Master

As I stood here one year ago you advanced me to the highest honor
which in my opinion can come to a citizen of our great State. There
was then a fervent •prayer upon my lips that an things wou]d work out
weU during my year for the upbuiJding of Masonry in CaJifornia. That
year has come and gone. The Great Architect of the Universe has been
wonderfu], generous and ·bountifu1. He even has stayed the hand of
the Ange] of Darkness. So with gratitude born of humiUty I express
my appreciation and report my stewardship.
May .I at this point give thanks to my predecessors, to my Grand
Lodge Officers, to the Inspectors, to the Committeemen and to a]] my
Comrades in Masonry for their kindJy he]p, counse] and advice. They
have been an inspiration and responsfb]e for whatever success has been
achieved.
According to custom I present to you now a revie:w of the more important items which occurred during my administration, the record of
my officia] acts, and my recommendations of ways in which I think our
Craft may •better and strengthen its Jines of action.
VISITATIO NS

Our jurisdiction has grown so Jarge, our Jodges have increased in
such numbers, the executive and adD>;inistrative duties have expanded so
proportionate1y; the correspondence has become so vo]uminous, that
it was impossib]e to equate the physical demands of my office with my
desire to meet and ta1k with an my brethren. Even so, I have traveJed
on Masonic business in excess of 60,000 mi]es, mostly by air. Attached
as Exhibit "A" is a chrono1ogy of the dates, events and p]aces attended
or convened. These add up to 7 Constitutions, 16 Institutions, 15
Cornerstones, 11 Dedications, 39 Receptions or Visitations, and 29
Breakfasts, Centennia1s or other aft'airs.
My trave]s took me into every nook and cranny of our State, to our
sister Masonic jurisdiction of Nevada, twice to WiuUiington, D.C., to
Eng1and, Scotland, Denmark and France, and to the most wester]y
part of our jurisdiction, the Hawaiian ls]ands. It may be of interest
and lbene.8t to you that I recount some highJights of my traveJ experiences.
In February I attended the Conference of Grand Masters in North
America at Washingt on, D.C. Meetings were he]d and many ideas
exchanged. Your Grand Master was on the agenda for a report on pubJic schoo] questions. I a]so attended the Annua] Meeting of the George
Washingt on Nationa1 Memoria] Association, and the Internationa]
Supreme Council, Order of DeMo1ay.

17

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

From Washington I flew to London for the Communication of the
United Grand Lodge of England, the mother Grand Lodge of the world
and the site of the inception of speculative Masonry in 1717. I found
this fountain source of all Freemasonry vigorous and carrying out the
fundamental traditions of our Craft. I felt more at home perhaps because the Grand Master, Most Worshipful. The Earl of Scarbrough.
had honored me by appointment as Representative of the United Grand
Lodge of England nearest California, a position formerly filled by our
late beloved Past Grand Master, William Rhodes Hervey. During
the Grand Lodge session I was seated alongside the Grand Master in
the East and received a most cordial and brotherly reception. The business of the Grand Lodge was transacted with dispatch, having undergone screening by efficient officers and committees, including the Board
of General Purposes presided over by Sir Ernest Cooper. At the request of the Grand Master I addressed the Grand Lodge and expressed
on your behalf my appreciation of their hospitality and my desire to
strengthen the ties of our common fraternal brotherhood and the lines
of our parallel Masonic programs. The Grand Secretary, Sir Sydney
White, was especially hospitable and helpful in my acquisition of information as well as contacts among these ardent Masons, all of which
was extremely useful to me in the discharge of my functions as your
Grand Master. The Grand Lodge meets in Freemasons' Hall, a great
central home for English Freemasons. Breathtaking in its beauty and
covering an area of over two acres, it is a memorial to the memory of
the brethren who fell in the first World War.

privileges from the year 1128, and their identity with the general body
of Freemasons in Scotland from 1677.
.
It was my pleasure at Edinburgh also to meet with Ill. Brother
Robert S. Lindsay, 33°, Secretary General, Scottish Rite Supreme
Council of Scotland.
From Scotland I flew to Copenhagen for visitations with our Danish
brethren of the National Grand Lodge of Denmark. They work the
Swedish system of 11 °. Through arrangements made by Rt. Worshipful
Brother Einer Hoeg, Grand Secretary, I attended a session of their
Grand Lodge, their Grand Master, Most Worshipful, Frode Rydgaard,
sitting in the East, at a conferral of their 9°. It commenced at 4 o'clock
in the afternoon and was concluded at 7: 30 p.m. There then followed
a traditional banquet and other festivities until 11 : 00 o'clock. These
brethren in this country close to the midnight sun seem to exemplify
Masonic brotherly love at its best. Their attachment one to the other
is evidenced iby warm and cordial formalities and many expressions of
friendship which are a joy to behold.
I then flew to Paris and there met representatives of the two Grand
Lodges recognized by our Grand Jurisdiction of California, the National Grand Lodge of France and the Grand Lodge of France. These
two Grand Lodges are now in process of negotiations looking toward
a merger. It was my pleasure to renew an acquaintance with Most
Worshipful Rene J. Raymond, Grand Commander of the Scottish Rite
Supreme Council of France, who had visited our jurisdiction in the past.
Our own Lodge le Progress in the Hawaiian Islands traces its origin
to this Supreme Council. Fraternal courtesies had been arranged for
me by Rt. Worshipful Felix A. Lenhart, member of the Supreme Council
and Past Grand Treasurer of Czechoslovakia.
In May I visited the most westerly part of our Grand Jurisdictionthe Hawaiian Islands-"where skies are blue and love is true." Delightful days were spent in visitations amid breathtaking beauties, volcanic
thrills, scenic drives, plantation visits, surfing and gol6ng. The trip
served also to reveal what is needed, in my opinion, to strengthen the
structure of our California and Hawaiian Freemasonry. And I was
especially happy to tread in peacetime the streets which I walked during
the war while in the service of my government.
Your Grand Master and his wife Virginia were laden with leis on
arrival at Honolulu, bespeaking the traditional Hawaiian hospitality.
I. in tum, laid a Memorial wreath on the graves of our Hawaiian brethren
of the Royal Dynasty.
In the course of time the Masonic fraternity on the Islands has numbered among its members three of Hawaii's seven kings: Kamehameha
IV, Kamekameha V, Kalakaua I: also the Prince Consort, John 0.
Dominis, husband of Queen Liliuokalani. Four Governors of Hawaii
also were Masons: Lawrence McCully Judd, Joseph Boyd Poindexter,

16

I was entertained at London also by Ill. Brother Colonel Ernest
George Dunn,. 33°, Secretary General. Scottish Rite Supreme Council
of England.
Next, I flew to Edinburgh, Scotland, where the Grand Lodge of
Scotland 1has its headquarters. Most Worshipful, Lord MacDonald, is
presently the Grand Master and also head of the MacDonald Clan.
.The Grand Secretary, Dr. Alexander Buchan, and the California representative, Charles Burrows. opened wide the door of Masonic hospitality. Again I enjoyed an extremely valuable exchange of important
Masonic information. It was my privilege to take tea with Past Grand
Master, Lord Elgin, traditionally known as Lord Lieutenant for the
Kingdom of Fife. Lady Elgin, and their son, Lord Bruce, made my
visit at Broomhall one long to be remembered. Lord Bruce is presently
Junior Grand Warden. These outstanding Peers are direct descendants
of Scotland's national hero King, Robert the Bruce. His historic battle
sword was placed in my hands and I had the honor of attempting to
swing the great weapon of this illustrious warrior. I also visited the
wonderful old chapel of the world-renowned Cannongate Kilwinning
Lodge No. 2. These so-called Cannongate Masons date their corporate

18

19

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Wallace Rider Farrington and Oren E. Long, and five Chief Justices:
Abraham Forander, Charles Coffin Harris, Alfred Francis Judd, Emil
Cornelius Peters and James Leslie Coke.
Masonry in the Islands has its roots deep in an historic past. For
example, Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371 was instituted by the
Scottish Rite Supreme Council of France in 1843 by the Deputy Grand
Master, Le Tellier. This was the first Masonic Lodge established in the
Pacific or on the mainland west of the Missouri River! As incorporated
into the California structure today, it retains traces of the original ritual.
In the 1905 organizational transfer, the Grand Lodge of California
granted the Lodge permission to continue conferring the 3° in a manner
similar to the original Scottish Rite French ritual.
Today the Islands comprise four natural districts formed by the
Islands of Oahu, Kauai, Maui and Hawaii. On Oahu there are the
Lodges: Hawaiian No. 21, le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371. Honolulu
No. 409, Schofield No. 443, and .Pearl Harbor No. 598. On Kauai, the
Lodge Kauai No. 589. On Maui, the Lodge No. 472. And on Hawaii,
the Lodge Kilauea No. 330. There is a combined membership today of
3032.
I was privileged to •b e received officially by the brethren on Oahu in
a joint meeting and by each of the Lodges on the outer Islands in indi~
vidual meetings. Many of the brethren I met have given generously of
their time and performed extraordinary and outstanding service to
Masonry. Your Grand Master expressed to those assembled his deep
and grateful appreciation for their efforts and achievements.
Actually, I think the finest thing about Hawaiian Masonry is the
way it has flowered in a ground fertile with an ever increasing oppor~
tunity to demonstrathe Masonry's universality. Masonry knows no
North, no South, no East, nor West; nor do we draw any arbitrary
lines of exclusion for applicants. Instead, we open wide the portals of
our lodges to all those good men who qualify according to Masonic
standards of acceptance.
Having in mind the potentials for a great confluence of California
and Hawaiian Masonry, whereby each adds to the other its strength
in attainment of the Masonic credo, and based upon my own observa~
tions and a study of reports by my predecessors and other Grand Lodge
officers, I put into operation some means of bringing about additional
growth and strength. I recommend to this Grand Lodge also that the
name and title of our Grand Lodge be changed to "The Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
and Territory of Hawaii," and to this end that Section l, Article I, of
our Constitution be amended accordingly, with permissive abbreviations
in ritualistic and administrative work.
All visitations at home and abroad added much to my information
and to my gallery of Masonic memories. But more important, I found

ri less inspiration in an observation of our world~wide Masonic
P ce th and brotherhood. We are all proud parts of a well~knit and
s!:°!vereign series of Masonic jurisdictions, recognize~ as regular.
We can do a great deal in California to adv.an~e the dynamics of modern
Masonry and the mutuality of our Masonic interests.
APPOINTMENTS

There is attached as Exhibit B a list of my important appointments.
CONSOLIDATION

Gravel Range Lodge No. 59 and Forest Lodg~ No. 66 ~roposed a
onsolidation for reasons which appeared compelling. Details are set
~orth in the Grand Secretary's Report. As requested, I outlined t~e
steps necessary to accomplish the desired result, and when I wa.s s~tts~
fled all legal requirements had been met, approved the consolidation.
RITUALISTIC WoRK

It was my pleasure to attend all the Spring Conferences of Inspectors
and to address them on affairs of the Craft. I look upon the Inspectors
as emissaries of the Grand Master. They give generously of their en~
ergies and la'bor valiantly in the vin~ards of 1':fason1:'Y. They con~
tribute many hours of time and attention to their duties. They, the
Assistant Grand Lecturers, and the Grand Lecturer are entitled to
great credit for the general spirit of excellence with which our ritualistic
work is performed.
With respect to the Assistant Grand Lecturers it has seemed an
imposition that they should be made to remain in Gr~nd Lodg~ du?n.g
the Annual Communications. They have many things of ntuahsttc
and administrative importance to do elsewhere. Accordingly, I recom~
mend they be excused from compulsory attendance in Grand Lodge
during Annual Communications.
OUR MASONIC CHARITIES

One of the satisfying reflections of a Grand Master is a sense of
security from knowing that our wonderful works of charity are in such
good and kindly hands. Our Board of Trustees of the Mas~nic Homes
of California is outstanding. The Homes at Decoto and Covma and our
fine productive results and achievements of Masonic charity are a tribute
to the hard working, sincere and kindly men who compnse the Board.
They truly demonstrate the tenets of Masonry in their daily lives.
In going through the Grand Lodge line it is a priviliege to serve as a
member of the Homes Board. It gives an insight into this all~important
work and permits close association with the Most Worshipful Charles
M. Wollenberg and the Most Worshipful Charles Albert Adams,
affectionately referred to as the "two Charlies." With a long record of

20

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

unsurpassed devotion to the cause of Masonic charity, these two sterling
Americans and Masons are an inspiration for us who follow in their
footsteps. May the Grand Architect of the Universe grant that we
may have them actively at our side for many more years to come.
In my service on the Home Board I was struck by the refusal to
admit to Decoto those old folks who were considered ineligible for
physical reasons. I do not refer to those who may have required hospitalization. I have in mind those who were considered not eligible for
admittance because of physical handicaps. Instead, they may have been
granted outside relief. or cared for in private nursing homes. It always
seemed to me, and I have voiced this belief at our meetings, that if a
private nursing home can care for one of our indigent and handicapped
brethren that we ourselves should be able to do this at Decoto. We
should not pass the buck. I realize that this may require additional facilities and staff, but I feel the Craft of California would supply the
funds for this purpose if they were aware of the need. The Board knows
the problem ( 1953: 103, 1954: 91 ) . Since no concrete proposal has
been made, however, I recommend that a special committee of Grand
Lodge be appointed to study the situation and report at the next Annual
Communication to the end that we make adequate provision at Decoto
for our needy and physically distressed brethren, their wives and widows.
While on the subject of Masonic Charity, I should mention our
concern for the brethren damaged by the recent hurricanes. I extended
to the Grand Masters of the stricken states our sympathy, fraternal interest and offers of aid. It will be recalled that similar messages cheered
those of us who were active in relieving Masonic distress during our
1906 San Francisco fire. Our Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler well
knows the deep sense of gratitude we experienced then, and in point of
truth he ~s alw~ys foremost in reminding us of his availability to help
M~sons ID afflicted areas. The hurricanes caused great disaster but,
while expressing great appreciation, none of the Grand Lodges involved
wanted outside help. They preferred themselves to handle the relief.
Indeed, the Grand Master of New York typically reported: "Our
!rouble will be to induce those who need help to accept it. Our people
ID upstate New York are rugged individualis ts!"
GRAND REPRESENTA TIVES

This Grand Lodge ·h as not had any established policy relative to
na~ng Gra.nd R~res~ntatives between jurisdictions. It has been simply
a hit and miss affair with each Grand Master doing as he wished. The
net. result is that we have been neither fish nor fowl. A year ago the
policy was adopted that we would exchange Representatives or name
a Representative where any Grand Lodge requested. The Grand Secretary revised the form of commission and there is now a supply on hand. A
number of Grand Lodges have requested appointmen t of these Repre-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

21

t ti es The appointmen t is, of course, by the Grand Master. Hence,

~ena~co:&nce with Article II, Section 12, R.D., I appointed Represen-

:tives near other Grand Lodges as follows:

( See Exhibit C)
I also approved a form of medaJlion to be worn with ~ blue and gold
ribbon around the neck by our representatives. It is a replica of our Centennial souvenir medal.
COORDINATI NG CoNPERENC E

In July I called a conference of the Grand Lodge elective o~cers
and the Past Grand Masters. My purpose was to. report. and .coordinate
of de· s Information by those present resulted mI clariflcabon
affair
d ac.·
d.1scuss1on
.
an
genera
si ns upon the trestleboard s. There was
!iescence in important steps to ibe taken, such as pl~s for our C~h­
?ornia Masonic Memorial Temple and the Ground Breaking Ceremonies.
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

My constant attention was given this laudable enterprise. The Com•ttee which I appointed, headed by Past Grand Master Edward H.
Stems performed extraordina ry and outstanding services way _over
and above the call of duty. I was pleased, indeed, to be able to issue
a Proclamation for Groundbrea king, copy of which is attached. I~ seems
that about 70,000 Masons by their contributions have made possible the
plans which call for the start of construction now. I would assume that
many of our lbre1.'hren-that is, those who as yet hav~ not contribut~-:­
will want to share the load with those who have given_. Indeed, it is
not a load-it is rather a privilege. There are parts of this world .where
Masonry has been blotted out-where the winds of freed~m are sblledwhere no man dare show a Masonic emblem. A Mas?n m such a '?lace
would consider it a Heaven-sen t blessing to be permitted ~o contribute
for a mighty Masonic memorial for all the world to see. It is, therefore,
truly an American Mason's privilege and a fair share of the burden
for the remaining of our 225,000 members to contribute. toward the
march of Masonry in California.
PueuCATION S

The Committee on Publications, so ably headed iby Judge Ralph K.
Pierson, is deserving of all praise for a job well-done. This group of
conscientious men have been working almost constantly at great personal sacrifice to help execute laws which this Grand Lodge has ap. .
proved and in bringing offenders to trial.
involved. It is
bodies
concordant
the
from
cooperation
I sought
the Shrine, for
as
orders,
my pleasure to report that the heads of some

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

example, following a meeting I called of the Potentates of California,
gave me their word and followed this by their deeds in helping execute
the laws of Grand Lodge as applied to their members. The Imperial
Potentate, Frank S. Land, worked zealously to bring the Craft and
Shrine closer together and emphasized that the members of the Shrine
were Masons flrst and Shriners second. I believe that with the continued
reminder of this primacy the atmosphere in California on this subject has
been clarifled, and we can expect continued and closer improvement toward our parallel objectives. As an example in point, I am most happy to
tell you that Islam Temple gave me a gift eheck and pledge to the California Masonic Memorial Temple for $5,000.00.

DISCIPLINARY

22

The last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge also approved
implementation ' of the program by authorizing civil actions against offenders. As a result I flied four suits in the Superior Court for that
purpose. This was done after Legislative amendments had been passed
and which furnish an added basis for suit.
CORRESPONDENCE

The Committee on Correspondence has functioned with increasing
efficiency and skill in publishing our own "California Freemason."
Great praise is due the Committee Chairman, Judge Newcomb Candee,
and the members for an admirable advance in every issue. The present
high position to which our publication has risen so rapidly is a tribute
to these loyal men of Masonry.

23

In a true sense the discipline imposed in Masonry means•"to teach."
We could accomplish a great deal if a system of preventive discipline
were devised. A !brother "straying from the straight and narrow path"
could be summoned by a Master or a lodge committee, and an attempt
made to remove the cause of complaint before charges become necessary. I think such a plan of prevention is worthy of trial.
There have been brought to my attention instances in a very few
lodges of that lack of fraternal feeling which has led to sharp discussions. These always catise a Grand Master unnetessary mental anxiety
and concern. I would request. if at all proper, that these brethren "bury
the hatchet." Take as an example that of Joseph when he was ruler of
Egypt and the account of his extreme forbearance and affection towards
his offending brothers. I realize this is a "consummation devoutly to be
wished," but offending brethren would earn my gratitude if they could
bring themselves to a true Masonic embrace.
Other instances. of unnecessary time and worry to a Grand Master,
rare !hut nonetheless acute, occur when lodges fail to maintain our
Masonic standards. A case in point happened within a month after my
installation. Reluctantly and regretfully I arrested the charter of one
lodge until the widespread derelictions were cleared up to my satisfaction. A detailed account is set forth as Exhibit F.

COMMISSION ON REVISION OF Ross DIGEST

The subject of gambling and speciflcally raffles, door prizes, lotteries and bingo games, like Banquo's Ghost, arises from time to time to
plague Grand Masters. They and the Craft generally have disapproved
of these practices.
·
·

The codiflcation and clariflcation of our Masonic laws has become
increasingly a must. I was most pleased, therefore, when the men on
the Committee I appointed for this purpose began to work with vigor.
They have performed a stupendous task. In a short time you should
have in your hands the flrst edition of the California Masonic Code.

Sometimes there may be, in the twilight or fringe zone, activities
which fall short of Penal Code violations. They are thought to be excused as charitable or entertaining. But, in the flnal analysis, they are
vain hopes of getting something by luck or chance, and foreign to the
fundamental purpose of Masonry.

PROCLAMATIONS

There are appended as Exhibit D the Proclamations I issued as
follows:
Masonic Homes Endowment Month
Public Schools Week
Constitution Observance Month
Groundbreaking for Memorial Temple
DECISIONS

There are also appended as Exhibit E some 73 decisions. These I
gently refer to the tender mercies of the Committee on Jurisprudence.

To ask any Grand Master to police these borderline cases is unfair
and an imposition on an already crowded schedule. It is bad for everyone. The necessity for technical comparison with recurrent decisions
shows the prevalent misunderstanding, criticism and dissension.
Suffice that Masonry teaches obedience to Civil law, and to avoid
that which in the public mind is associated with gambling. This means
in practice that Masons must set the standard and should obey the spirit
no less than the letter of the law. It is no excuse to point out that other
organizations may indulge in raffles, bingo and door prizes. Our organization does not encourage evasion. We do not say the end justifles the
means. Accordingly, on June 1, 1955, I circulated a general ruling, calling attention to the necessity that we maintain our Masonic standards.

24

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
SPECIAL THANKS

My special thanks go to the Grand Secretary, Lloyd E. Wilson, the
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, and the office staff who
helped me immeasurably in surmounting the administrative work and
duties of the Grand Master's Office. I ·have come to look upon these
workers with great affection, since they not only endure the labors
they are so well qualified by experience to discharge but they also must
endure the vagaries of changing Grand Masters. The Grand Secretary
himself is more than a secretary. He functions as Chief of Staff and
obeys at all times the will and pleasure of the Grand Master.
The Deputy Grand Master, Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., the Senior Grand
Warden, L. Harold Anderson, the Junior Grand Warden, Leo E. Anderson, all have helped me as a wonderful team. When I was installed
and faced the mountainous pile of work ahead I looked to these breth~
ren and instantly felt relieved. They were a tower of strength in my
corner. The Deputy Grand Master in his statement of duties does not
nearly do himself justice. He especially has eased my path in many
ways.
The problem of research for decisions is extremely time-consuming.
To help me in this I have had the assistance of volunteers, chiefly Judge
Wakefield Taylor, member of the Committee on Jurisprudence, and
Elbert W. Davis, Grand Lecturer. Only a lawyer can truly appreciate
as I do and give to these men the thanks I do for their help and resultant time-saving to me.
CONDITION OP THE CRAFT

We conferred the degree of Master Mason upon 8,679 members
during the year. This means there has been a healthy membership
growth. The Lodges generally are successful and prospering. There is
prevalent throughout the Craft a spirit of harmony and cooperation. The
enthusiasm that pervades seems to be expanding and growing.
But we are reminded as some wit once said that the only place to
find real peace is in the dictionary. I suppose that is true. To seek absolute peace and harmony in every Lodge would be unrealistic. Sometimes
I wonder whether we have instilled into our Initiates a firm enough
grasp of that vision and purpose which is so peculiar to Masonry.
The foundations of Masonry must be sound if we are to build toward moral. social and intellectual improvement. As we demonstrate
Masonry in our lives, so will we be judged by the world. A candidate
must learn that the designs upon the trestleboard, the rituals and the
ceremonies, the identifications upon lapels, rings, and watch chains, the
numbers of brethren, the moneys in treasuries, yes, even the magnificence of temples and manifestations of historic glories-all are important
only as they contribute to good thoughts and deeds. The newcomer to

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

25

our ranks must first and foremost reflect credit upon our fraternity. Let
us !be sure we make Masons in the true sense of that term.
The subject of stimulating attendance at lodges is recurrent. In my
opinion much success in this commendable campaign can be achieved
simply by closing lodge early. Many members must leave for work
early in the morning. Plan the meetings well in advance, conduct them
with dispatch, keep open discussion within appropriate bounds, make
timely decisions and close before ten o'clock. This leaves a period for
a short fellowship session. You will find these simple steps work like
magic in building interested attendance and a real inducement to come
again. The Master who does this will earn his popularity.
On the over-all scene, I report gladly that numbered among our
653 lodges and 224,424 members, there are many, many Masonsgood and true-who do exemplify in their daily work and lives the
teachings of Masonry in the highest sense. They are an abiding influence for good. They further the great cause of our public schools, the
expanding heart of fraternal benevolence, the laudable uplift of humanity and the diffusion of that light which dispels darkness. They have
made up their minds that the winds of freedom will continue to sweep
over this land. They confirm that the summit of our Masonic credo is
the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man.

GooD CITIZENSHIP

You live in a land of great promise. California bids fair to exceed
in population even the most enthusiastic Chamber of Commerce prediction. Our fertile valleys, renowned climate and varied industries have
induced the greatest mass migration in modern history. We now number some thirteen million people. Newcomers are pouring across our
borders lby more than one thousand a day. A decade hence we shall
total at that rate seventeen million souls and thus become the nation's
greatest state. In keeping with our fantastic growth, last fall we had
more children in our public schools than any other state, although New
York's ·population is almost a third greater.
This influx is by those of varying backgrounds and from every part
of the earth. As a result, we are a frontier of experimentation and innovation. We are a dynamo of creative invention. And so in California
we are ever moving toward better ways of living and working.
This age of transition has brought a change also in the Masonic
mind. The Craft inquires into the mystery of its own being. We intuitively sense that we have been designed for other and more important
and higher work than yet has been revealed or accomplished. This is
certain: Our brethren are not content with mere formalities. They are
eager to join a forward march to a more glorious Masonic destiny.

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In all this great change there is an even greater challenge. We do
not shirk the challenge. Indeed, it is an exciting time to be alive. We
agree with Emerson:
"If there is any period when one would desire to be born, is
it not in the age of transition: when the old and the new stand
side by side and admit of being compared; when the energies of
all men are searched by fear and hope, and when the historic
glories of the past can be compensated by the rich possibilities of
the future."
And so as we stand at the threshold of this new era there is point in
reminding ourselves of the burning question of our day as brethren did
in the time of our illustrious Masonic forebear, George Washington.
Then, in view of attempts to shackle a free people with the chains of
slavery, the question was whether they should fl.ght for American freedom.
Today the burning question is: Shall we stay American? That is so
because of alien inroads into our American life. Some forces are bent
on injecting the poison of Communism into our body politic. Others are
bent on .breaking the •back,bone of our Constitution. They would tear
down the wall of separation between church and state. To them the
symbolic stars of freedom in our flag mean nothing. They would
necessarily 1blot out all Masonry.
For example, and to call a spade a spade: Within a few days after
my installation I rplanned to lay the cornerstone for a public high school
at Los Altos. This was in pursuance of a request by the school authorities and in keeping with our long standing custom and the great Masonic interest in the American public schools. A certain pastor of the Roman
Catholic Church of Los Altos, :becoming aware of our plans, voiced
public criticism of Masons being asked to conduct the ceremony. The
Press carried accounts of the controversy. There follow excerpts from
an article of the Palo Alto Times, October 29, 1954.
"The Rev. Stanley Reilly, pastor of St. Nicholas Catholic
Parish in Los Altos, yesterday called on the School Board to
cancel Masonic participation. He said the lodge's conducting the
ceremony would be 'discriminatory' in that it would 'prevent
members of (many) churches from gracefully attending.
"Charles Crooke, superintendent of the high school district,
today denied he had said yesterday-as quoted in the Times.that opposition to the Masonic participation was limited to 'one
certain group.' H~ said he has received only three telephone calls
in opposition and 'I have no way of knowing their religious denomination.'
"Informed of Father Reilly's stand, Clausen (Grand Master
to officiate) declared:

"'The Father must 1be all wrong. The ceremony I am going
to perform tomorrow is the one that George Washington used
when he laid the cornerstone for the national capitol. when he
was grand master for Virginia; the one that Judge Hastings used
when he laid the cornerstone for the California capitol at Sacramento--and the one that Earl Warren, now chief justice of the
United States Supreme Court, used when he (as Grand Master)
laid cornerstones for schools all up and down California.
" 'We ( Masons) embrace all creeds-} ews, Catholics, Protestants, Buddhists. That's what some of the men of cloth don't
like. Why, the Masons were laying cornerstones ·before the
Roman Catholic Church was thought oft' "
The following quotations from the Scottish Rite magazine, "The
New Age," of October, 1955, are most pertinent on the subject of laying
cornerstones of public buildings with Masonic ceremonies. This article
was by ·Brother R. Baker Harris, 33°, Librarian of the House of the
Scottish Rite Temple in Washington, D. C.
"Is it proper and appropriate for the Masonic Fraternity to lay
cornerstones of public buildings? The answer is that it 'has been
considued both proper and appropriate in the United States ever
since the formation of our government in 1789, and for two primary reasons among others:
"1. The Masonic ceremony for laying a cornerstone is not
sectarian, though in its symbolism it appropriately proclaims the
preeminent importance of God in the affairs of mankind.
"2. It is a public ceremony surviving from the practices of the
ancient operative building craft, and its symbolic meaning is
drawn from still more ancient sources.
"In the United States, which, from its foundation, has zealously guarded the principle of religious freedom and the complete
separation of Church and State, the Masonic cornerstone ceremony has been often used in laying the foundation stones of public buildings.
"The cornerstone of the Capital of the United States was laid
with Masonic ceremony under the auspices of the Grand Lodge
of Maryland in 1793, President George Washington participating. A year earlier the cornerstone of 'The President's House,'
now known as The White House, was laid by a Maryland lodge,
Lodge No. 9 of Georgetown.
"Since that time Presidents James K. Polk, Millard Fillmore,
James Buchanan, William McKinley, William H. Taft, Warren
G. Harding, Herbert Hoover and Harry S. Truman have, as
President, participated in Masonic cornerstone or dedication ceremonies. President Franklin D. Roosevelt participated in a Mason-

26

28

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ic cornerstone laying in 1919 when he was Assistant Secretary of
the Navy. Of the Presidents named, Polk, Fillmore and Hoover
were not themselves Masons, but they acknowledged the appropriateness of the ceremony being conducted by the Masonic
Fraternity.
"To mention only a few of the public buildings, edifices and
monuments in the nation's capital whose cornerstones were laid
with Masonic ceremonies:
"The Capitol of the United States and The White House, as
already mentioned.
"The Smithsonian Institution, May 1, 1947.
"The Extension of the U.S. Capitol, July 4, 1851.
"The House of Representatives Office Building. April 14,
1906.
"The Department of Commerce Building, June 1O. 1929.
"The Department of Labor Building. December 15, 1932.
"The Washington Monument, July 1. 1848.
"The Equestrian Statue of George Washington (dedication),
February 22, 1860.
"Washington Victory Memorial, November 14, 1921.
"American University, October 21 , 1896.
"Army War College, February 21, 1903.
"Memorial Continental Hall, April 19, 1904.
"Constitution Hall, October 30, 1928.
"Admiral Peary Monument ( dedication), April 6, 1922.
"Law School, George Washington University, December 15,
1924.
"School of Government, George Washington University,
May 18, 1938.
"In addition, state capitols, post offices and other public buildings in many parts of the United States have cornerstones which
were laid with Masonic ceremonies.
"Recent attempts, therefore. to denominate the Masonic cornerstone as being sectarian are completely without foundation in
historical fact."
And so to all of those whatever presuasion, who prefer to bend their
knee to an alien power and who would force you to do likewise, who
teach hostility toward your most cherished traditions-hostility toward
our popular form of government-hostility toward our public schoolshostility toward your right to choice of religion, we say with all American vigor: If that's the kind of government you want, then for heaven's
sake go elsewhere! And I, for one, propose to do everything in my
power to see that we do stay American!
There is, therefore, a great mission of Masonry for America. Just
as Masons had a vital part to play in the formation of our nation, so

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

29

they have a great opportunity to make sure we stay American. Masonry
combats mtellectual enslavement. It emancipates the ·human mind. It
liberates humanity from the chains of fear, ignorance and su·perstition.
It teaches the tenets which Jesus proclaimed, "Behold! a new doctrine
I give unto you, that you love one another," and the Divine Commandment of Moses, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." It seeks to
persuade mankind that an acceptance of these precepts will lead to the
amity and peace for which we yearn.
So, as individuals we can bend our energies to increase our American
strength, our American devotion to duty and our American consecration
to freedom-freedom of the mind, freedom of the body and freedom of
the soul.
OuR PUBLIC ScHooLs
We can remind ourselves that to meet this challenge of the times
pd to make sure we stay American we have in our hands a marvelous
tool. It was fashioned with the greatest of care largely by our Masonic
forebears. This instrument is the American public school. We Masons
of this country and of California especially should regard our heritage
in that light. Examine it carefully as did the swordsman when he looked
at his weapon, tested its blade, Hexed its steel and found it tough and
true.
The American public school, strangely enough, is far older than our
nation. In fact, this year of 1955 is the 316th anniversary of our public
school system in America. For it was in Dorchester, Massachusetts, on
May 20, 1639, that there was launched the first free public school supported by taxes on real property. Through upwards of three centuries
that plan in essence has remained the financial foundation of our free
scholastic system.
We now have nearly 30 million children in those schools. This is
projected to increase by more than a million each year. Obviously the
tax base for providing funds is not increasing at any comparable clip.i
Hence. there are proposals currently for new forms of taxation to meet
the needs. T ·hese call for careful examination lest there is exploitation
by those not friendly to public schools.
For the past thirty-six years our California Public Schools Week
has been a means of calling attention to the functions and needs of our
own public schools. It is a Masonic sponsored event. Inaugurated in
the 1920's by Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams because of a
crisis then confronting our public schools in a shortage of teachers, funds
and facilities, today the need for the event is even more acute but for
different reasons. The Grand Lodge in 1953 recognized its great stake
in our public schools by amending our laws to provide that lodge funds
may !be spent for this event and to permit support of state-wide public
school purposes.

31

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

We should remember that years ago in a transition from church control the American public schools shook off the old world, hard dogmatism of the dark ages. They broke through layers of prejudice and superstition to emerge and grow and flower in our free soil. They now carry
out the typically American concept that pu•blic schools should •b e paid
for and run by the people, as free schools, so every boy and girl in
the land may have a chance to get ahead in life according to merit instead of money. They are a product of the free, equal-opportunity-forall spirit of American institutions. There is inherent in that idea the
further American concept that public schools should be sanctuaries of
religious freedom. They are protected iby law from sectarian intrusion.
As a vast melting ·pot in a nation of diverse creeds, religions and races,
they train our children truly into a unified, intelligent American citizenry. In the recent words of our United States Supreme Court:
"The public school is at once the symbol of our democracy
and the most pervasive means for promoting our common dignity."
Yet there are those today who seek to cripple our public schools by
unfair criticism, by calling them Godless, by draining away public funds
necessary for ·their support, by inducing competitive systems, by unsym·pathetic in8ltration into teaching, administrative and executive staffs,
or by voting down all public school 1b ond issues.
It therefore has become increasingly clear to me that our Craft
should expand its activities beyond a mere one-week event once a year.
Urging people to visit the schools during Public Schools Week, while
of great value, falls far short of meeting the need today.
The critical question today, in my opinion, is whether the children,
the teachers, the administrative staffs, the school boards and the public
know the origin, development and purpose of our public schools. Do
they teach telling comparisons with competitive systems? Are they "sold"
on public schools themselves? Do they, for example, compare the school
books of the public and competitive systems, especially those dealing
with 'history, social studies and civics? The California public schools,
strange to say, do not teach the why of our public schools. Why not?
Accordingly. by my Proclamation of April 25, 1955, I inaugurated
specific action on the subject of the origin, development and purpose of
our public schools, as follows:
1 ) Essays and compositions on that subject in the schools with
awards to winners during Public Schools Week: 2) Requests to school
authorities for inclusion of the subject in public school curricula: and
3) Plans for a Masonic Public School Scholarship Fund whereby two
annual awards of $1,000 each will be made by the Grand Master, one
in the North and one in the South, for the best thesis or dissertation on
the subject by graduate students working for doctoral degrees in the
field of education. Among other benefits this should provide fruitful
source material for use in curricula and comparative studies.

A start in pursuance of the Proclamation has been made. Essays
and compositions were held and awards were made during Public
Schools Week. Requests were made to appropriate authorities for
mdusion of the subject in the public school curricula and resulted in
promises that this would be done. The following universities and colleges responded enthusiastically to the scholarship plan and will gladly
participate in a program for Masonic Public School Scholarships if this
Grand Lodge will authorize funds for the purpose.
Claremont College, Claremont
College of the Pacific, Stockton
Stanford University, Stanford
University of California, Berkeley
University of California, Los Angeles
University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
I therefore recommend that this Grand Lodge create a standing
COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS to conduct a year round
program along the lines above, including the usual Public Schools Week
activities, that funds be appropriated for the purpose, and to this end
that Section 70 R.D. be amended by adding "on Public Schools" after
"on History."

30

SUMMARY OP RECOMMENDATIONS

As detailed above:
1. Amend law to include "Territory of Hawaii" in name and title
of ·Grand Lodge.
2. Excuse Assistant Grand Lecturers from compulsory attendance
at sessions of Grand Lodge.
3. Incoming Grand Master to appoint Special .Committee to study
and report ~n eligibility for adm~ssi~n into Decoto of indigent and physically handicapped brethren, their wives or widows.
4. Amend law to include Standing Committee on Public Schools.
5. Amend law to provide for use of certified in place of registered
mail.
CONCLUSION

. Thi~ brings to a close a glorious year. I am now "passing by." If,
m. passing by, I ·ha~e hel~d i~ some small measure to brighten the
mirror of Masonry m Cahfonua, then I am satisfied. For Masonry
doe~ brighten the mirror of the Holy Writings wherein we are told:
And what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to
love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God."

Grand Master

32

33

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

October I5--Cornerstone, Temple of Consuelo Lodge No. 325, Escondido.*

SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OP GRAND LoDGE

I954
October 30--Cornerstone, Mountain View Union High School, Los
Altos.
November 5-Constitution, Hillsborough Lodge No. 737.
November I2--Constitution, Polaris Lodge No. 730; San Juan Lodge
No. 732; Golden Empire Lodge No. 733 and Kit Carson Lodge No. 734.
November I3--Cornerstone, Fruitvale Masonic Temple.
November 22-Dedication, Temple of Crescent Lodge No. 45.
November 26----Constitution, La Canada Lodge No. 739.
November 27__..,JConstitution, Centennial Lodge No. 729 and Two
Rivers Lodge No. 731.
November 29-Constitution, Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736.
December 3----Dedication, Los Gatos Temple.
December I 7-Constitution, Arvin Lodge No. 738.
December I~onstitution, Oasis of Mara Lodge No. 735.
I955
February 5-Cornerstone, Costa Mesa Temple.
February I2-Cornerstone, Central Valley High School, Redding.
February I2-Dedication, Enterprise High School, Redding.
March 26-Cornerstone, Temple of Gardena Lodge No. 372.
April 23-Cornerstone, Norma Harrington Grammar School, Oxnard.
April 26----Dedication, Daniel Webster Junior High School, Stockton.*
April 30---Cornerstone, Bakersfield High School & College, Bakersfield.*
May I 4-Dedication, Temple of El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576.
May 28----Cornerstone, Hesperian Temple, Santa Maria.*
June I-Cornerstone, Leroy Nichols Elementary School, Lodi.*
June 2-Dedication, Temple of North Butte Lodge No. 230, Gridley.*
June 14-Dedication, Crenshaw Masonic Temple, Los Angeles.*
June 25-Dedication, Temple of Sojourner Lodge No. 607, Duarte.
July 2~ornerstone, Temple of Artesia Lodge No. 377, Artesia.
July 29----Cornerstone, Castle Rock Elementary School, Castella.
July 30--Dedication, Fort Crook Masonic Temple.
August 6----Dedication, Fruitvale Masonic Temple, Oakland.
September IO---'Cornerstone, Temple of San Fernando Lodge No.
343.
October I-Cornerstone, Trona Masonic Temple.*
October ~ornerstone, Maricopa Unified Schools.*
October 8-Dedication, Temple of Monte Vista Lodge No, 655.

*Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Deputy Grand Master, represented the
Grand Master.
INSTITUTIO~S

I954
November I6-San Leandro Lodge U.D., San Leandro.
November I 9-Peninsula Lodge U.D., San Mateo.
I955
January I 5--Reception, Marysville.
February 4-Highland Lodge U.D., San Bernardino.
February 5--Mother Colony Lodge U.D., Anaheim.
February 8-Merced Lodge U.D., at Merced.
February 2I-Soquel Lodge U.D., at Soquel.
April 6----Hamilton Lodge U.D., at San Rafael.
May 2-San Pablo Lodge U.D., at Richmond.
May 7-Luther Burbank U.D., at Santa Rosa.
May I 4-Claude H. Morrison Lodge U.D., at San Diego.
June 4-Golden Bowl Lodge U.D., at South Gate.
June 25_.,;Lawndale Lodge U.D., at Hawthorne.
July I-Clayton Valley Lodge U.D., at Concord.
July 8-Channel Lodge U.D., at Stockton.
September I 7-El Rancho Lodge U.D., at Whittier.
October 1.:.......west Covina Lodge U.D., at El Monte.
RECEPTIONS AND VISITATIONS

I954
Octdber I 9-Reception, Ingleside Lodge No. 630.
November IS-Reception, East Bay Master & Wardens Association.
I955
January 20--Reception, Berkeley Masters & Wardens Association.
January 2I-Reception, Ben Ali Shrine, Sacramento.
January 28-Reception, San Francisco Bodies, Scottish Rite.
February 3----Reception, District 320.
February I 8-25-Grand Masters' Conference, Washington, D.C.
March 2-Com.munication, United Grand Lodge of England.
March 29----Reception, San Jose.
March 3I-Reception, Fidelity Lodge No. I20 for Milton D. Sapiro,
Grand Orator.
April 2-Reception, Oakland Shrine Masonic Night.
April 5-Conclave, California De Molay, San Diego.

34

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

April 15-Reception, District 304.
April 19-Reception, Fresno Shrine Masonic Night.
May 5--Reception, Y erba Buena Lodge No. 403 for Lester S. McElwain, Junior Grand Deacon.
May 12-Reception, District 550.
May 13-Reception, District 612.
May 18-Reception, San Diego Bodies, Scottish Rite.
May 19-Reception, Long Beach Bodies, Scottish Rite.
May 20---Reception, Los Angeles Bodies, Scottish Rite.
May 22-Annual visit, Hawaiian Islands.
June 6--Reception, District 646.
June 9-11-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada.
June 15-Reception, District 114.
June 16--Reception, Districts 118 and 120.
June 23-Reception, Districts 514, 516 and 564.
July 9--Reception, Districts 310 and 316.
July 17-19-Centennial Celebration, Grand Lodge of Canada, Province of Ontario. Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary, represented the
Grand Master.
July 28-Reception, District 116.
August 2-Reception, Parnassus Lodge No. 388.
August 18--Reception, San Francisco Masters & Wardens Association.
September 9--Reception, Districts 512, 515, 545 and 546.
September I 0---Reception, Catalina Island Lodge No. 524.
September 14-Reception, District 408, Gilroy.
September 16--Reception, District 548.
September 17-Reception, El Bekel Shrine Temple & Long Beach
Scottish Rite.
September 24-Reception, Islam Shrine Temple, San Francisco.
September 30---Reception and dinner, San Francisco Bodies, Scottish
Rite.
October I-Reception, University of California Masonic Club,
Berkeley.
M1scELLA.NEOUs
1954
October 17-Breakfast, San Francisco Masters & Wardens Association.
October 30---Centennial, Natoma Lodge No. 64.
November 6--Dedication, Reinterment, P.G.M. Stevenson, Cypress
Lawn Cemetery.
December 4-Centennial, lone Lodge No. 80.
December I I-Centennial, Morning Star Lodge No. 68.
December 14-lnstallation of Officers, Ingleside Lodge No. 640.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

35

1955
February 23-Presentation of 75 Year Button, Alcatraz Lodge No.

24.f.March 26--lnspectors spnng
· con ference, D·1vis1on
· 6.

March 27-Br~akfast, Los Angeles Board of Relief.
April 17-Breakfast, Sacramento Board of Relief.
April 22-lnspectors Spring Conference, Division 5.
April 24-Breakfast, Long Beach Board of Relief.
April 30-Coordination Meeting, Potentates of California Shrine
Temple, San Francisco.
May 6--lnspectors Spring Conference, Division 3.
May 7-Centennial, Yolo Lodge No. 81. L. Harold Anderson, Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master.
June 3-lnspectors Spring Conference, Division 4.
June 12-Breakfast, East Bay Masters & Wardens Association.
June 17-lnspectors Spring Conference, Divisions 1 and 2.
June 24-Annual Beef Steak Feed, Inglewood.
June 26-St. John's Day, Compton.
July 2-Coordination Meeting, Elective Grand Lodge Officers and
Past Grand Masters.
July 16--Centennial, Naval Lodge No. 87. Edward H. Siems, Past
Grand Master, represented the Grand Master.
August 13-Barbecue, Officers Associations of Districts 506, 508
and SIO.
August 19--Meeting, Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee.
August 20---Centennial, Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76.
September 17_.;Luncheon, Society Masonic Attorneys, Los Angeles.
September 18--Breaklast, Fresno Masters & Wardens Association.
September 25--Breaklast, Marin Lodge No. 191.
October 17-21-Supreme Council, ~ottish Rite, Washington, D.C.

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT B

EXHIBIT C

APPOINTMENTS

The following Grand Representatives have been formally approved
by both Grand Lodges concerned:
·

INSPECTORS
District
Otto F. Link...........- ..~......................~..................... 215
Ralph W. Collins.................~.................:................. 515
Ray Smilh - ............................................................ 554
Charles M. Coillancl.............................................. 564
Palmer A. Wels....L.................-....- .............~:....... 222
Charles C. W arre:n..................................:............. 308
Clarence C. Smftlt.~..........................:............:......:. 338
John D. Miller.....................................:.-............... 340
William J. Williams............................................~. 516
Alva A. Damells........................................!........... 427
Henry Drashner .................................................... 504
Jay Noviack .......................................................... 109
William C. Brouiltard............................!............... 116
Adolph H. Franzen................................................ 336

Harry L. Mulltr..............................................:....... 319
Edward C. Will ..................................................... 367
Frank Leroy Sutlil'.................................:.............. 567
Edward M. Stitz...............- ...._............................. 519
LeRoy S. Pinkham.................................................. 506
Carl E. Moore..~.~- ......................................:.......... 432
Hector M. Moir (Acting Inspector)............... ... 382
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON OLD MASONIC HALL, Los ANGELES
Frank Harwell, Jr., Chairman
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
Leo E. Anderson
Matthew M. Codon
SPECIAL Col\IMITTEE ON GROUND BREAKING CEREMONY

L. Harold Anderson, Chairman

37

FROM THE GRAND loDGE OF CALIFORNIA
Nelson C. Hart. .............................................Canada, Province of Ontario
George B. Clarlc............................................, ... ~ ...........................Colorado
Jose F. Castellanos.......................................-...........................................Cuba
Willard L. Hart..........................................................Oistrict of Columbia
Alex Troedsson ..............................................................................Oen.ark
George St. V. Harris....................................... - .............................S.gt.nd
Clyde I. Rush. ......................................................................................Jdaho
Robert F. Lowe..,...............................................................................trtland
Joe L. Tigue. ................................................................................... Kentucky
Thomas S. Roy ...................................................................... Massadtusttts
Wm. Clyde Donald........................................................................Mk:taigan
C. A. Carlson, Jr............................................................................... Nevada
Harold C. McAllister........................................................ New Hampshire
Francis P. Morton.............................................- .......................New Jersey
Harry J. P~ead......................................... ~.....:..........................New York
Roland R. Randall............................................................................Oregon
Rodolfo Ramjrez.. Pabon............................................................ Puerto Rico
C·harles H. Bun:ows............·.........................................................:..~tbuid
Ralph M. MagofBn..............................................................Sou~ Carolina
D. L McLane..........................................................................South Dakota
C. G. Saul...,,.-._...................................................................._.....•Tasmania
Albert J. Del.ange. ......................................................- .......- -....._Texas
Chester J. Chastelc. ...................................................._... _ .......Washington
C·has. Horner Troxell.............................................................W, est Virginia
Charles F. Lamb........................................................................"'WiS1:.onsin
Max S. V onSon............................. _ ............................York Grand Lodge
NEAR THE GRAND loDGE OF CALIFORNIA
Alfred Berglof ................................................................................Denmark
Henry C. Clausen............................................................................Bngland
John Qualman ..............................................................................Guatemala
Rollie W. Miller............................................................................ Keiltuc:ky

38

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXHIBIT D

The following Grand Lodges have submitted the name of a proposed
Grand Representative which has been approved by California. We are,
in tum, nominating the Representative indicated and expect approval.
Prom California
Gayle Haughton. Jr.
Natallo Vfola
Estamaloa Martinez Barra!

G. Carlin
Abel Gamero

Scott E. Kelsey
Leopoldo Gonzalez Saenz

ose Carlos Campos
oae Maurfclo Daeosta

J

Eliseo Paredes Manzano

JuriMUc:tion

Alabama
ATgentfna
Bahia (Brazil)
Canada (Province of Ontario)
Colorado
Cuba
District of Columbia
French National Grand Lodge
Honduras
Idaho
Kansas
Massachusetts
Nevada
Nuevo Leon (Mexico)
Oregon
Paralba (Brull)
Plauf (Brazil)
Puerto Rico
Tamaullpas (Mexico)
Texas
Washington
York Grand Lodge

PROCLAM ATION

Masonic Homes Endowmen t Month

Near California
Paul A. Plueger

Ellsworth Meyer
Arthur Paulsen
Prank Harwell, Jr.
Thomas Rolph
Felix Lenhart
Chester H. Warlow
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
0SCBZ" Lawler
Leslie E. Wood
Arthur M. Warren
John R. Moore
Herbert Shuey
Louis C. Drapeau
Edward H. Siems
Charla Albert Adams

We are nominating as Grand Representative the following to the
Grand Jurisdiction indicated and expect a nomination from them for
our approval.
Arthur S. Crftes.............·...................................................Bdtiah Columbia
L. Harold Anderson............................................................. - •.•........SWecltti
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr..........................................................--r"••••••: ....,.••~
John R. Moore. ..............................................................................-...."".-P""'
Lloyd E. Wilaon....................................................... - ......... ,....•..•...5c:otJand

39

"Help thy brother's boat across,
And lo. thine own has reached the shore."
The month of May brings into bright focus Masonic charity at its
best. It is an opportunity to "help thy brother's boat across." It reminds
us the primary duty to help, aid and assist our brethren in distress rests
·
upon the individual Mason.
He should share in the works of welfare of which we are so proudµie Homes for the old and the young at Decoto and Covina. The way
this can be done is 'by contributions to the Endowment Fund.
Such support is essential. since income is not sufficient for the pur~
pose.
I feel confident the Masons of California will respond generously
and thus express the most amiable blessing of the human breast.
I therefore proclaim the month of May, 1955 as Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund Month.
I hereby direct that:
1. All Lodges in the Jurisdiction arrange at least one meeting to
remind the brethren the purpose of this worthy program.
2. Where possible, arrange visitations under Lodge auspices to each
Home.
3. Use no drive or pressure methods, since we should observe the
principle of voluntary participation.
4. A Committee be formed in each Lodge to expedite and carry out
the above.
This Proclamation is to be read at each Stated· Meeting following its
reception, up to and including the month of May, and at such other
meetings as the Masters shall determine.
Dated: March 14, 1955.
HENRY C. CLAUSEN

Grand Master
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

40

41

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCLAMATIO N BY THE GRAND MASTER

approved by Congress; t~ese prizes to ,be awarded during Public Schools
week at suitable ceremomes;
That there be created a Masonic Public School Scholarship Fund
whereby two awards will be made annually through a University in the
North and one in the South for the best thesis by graduate students
working for doctorates in education. on the subject of the origin, development and purpose of the American Public School systems;
That the Craft of California, by unity and action, assist in assuring
that there be included in the required studies of these public schools of
California training in the origin, development and purpose of the American Public School System.
That this Proclamatjon be read at each stated meeting prior to
April 25, 1955.
Attest:

Re 36th Annual Public Schools Week
The 36th Annual Public Schools Week will be observed April 25
through April 30, 1955.
For the past thirty-six years, Public Schools Week in California has
been a means of calling attention to the functions and needs of our
public sdiools. It is a Masonic sponsored event. Inaugurated in the
1920s because of a crisis confronting our public schools in a shortage
of teachers, funds and facilities, today the need for the event is even
more critical but for different reasons.
Years ago the American public schools shook off the old world,
hard dogmatism of the dark ages. They broke through layers of prejudice and superstition to emerge and grow and flower in our free soil.
They now carry out the typically American concept that schools under
collegiate grade should be paid for and run by the people, as free schools,
so every boy and girl in the land may have a chance to get ahead in
life according to ~erit instead of money. They are a product of the
free, equal-opportunity-for-all spirit of American institutions. There
is inherent in that idea the further American concept that public schools
should be sanctuaries of religious freedom. Thus, they are protected
by law from sectarian intrusion. As a vast melting pot in a nation of
_diverse creeds, religions and races, they train our children truly into a
unified, intelligent American citizenry. In the words of our United
States Supreme Court:
"The public school is at once the symbol of our democracy
and the most pervasive means for promoting our common
destiny."

I. therefore. proclaim and direct:
That all Lodges observe the 36th Annual Public Schools WeekApril 25-30, 1955, and that no Lodge meetings be held during that
week except stated meetings and for the Public Schools Week Observances.
That all Lodges, in cooperation with the Grand Lodge, Public Schools
Week Committee, help the public, the teachers and the children attain
a ·better understanding of the origin, development and purpose of the
American Public School System: and, to this end, that Committees
arrange with local schools for contests by the children in under collegiate grades to write essays and compositions on this subject, the
winners to receive prizes donated by me of a ·beautifully embossed
Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag, containing the new words recently

HENRY

C. CLAUSEN

Grand Master
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

42

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCLAMA TION

To All Members of the Craft in California and Hawaii:

Constitution Month Observance
It has been our annual custom to observe the month of September as
a time to reflect upon the great blessings which flow from our federal
constitution. This inspired document, written largely by Masonic hands
directed by Masonic minds, came to life on September 17, 1787. John
Marshall, who fought hard for ratification and who later as the master
jurist gave vitality to its principles, was an ardent Mason and Grand
Master of Virgmia.
For some 168 years our constitution has been the backbone of our
Government. There are those who would rip out this 1backbone from the
structure of our American society. Some, for example, ask that we follow communistic lines-others that we throw away our American doctrine of church-state separation. But we firmly resolve that during our
time and our children's time we shall not see any part of our great
charter of freedoms slide like a wilted leaf down the drain of unconstitutional deviations.
It is well that we reaffirm and restate and reiterate this basic symmetry of American life. Bear in mind there are times when this calls
for courage-for "souls ablaze in bodies of bronze."
I therefore proclaim the month of September, 1955, "Constitution
Observance Month." The Masons of this jurisdiction shall join in programs of rededication to those constitutional freedoms which have made
our Nation great. Each Lodge of this jurisdiction shall hold a special
meeting for this purpose during the month of September and, if desired,
may hold such meeting with other Lodges.
This proclamation shall be read at all Lodge meetings during
September.
August 17, 1955
HENRY C. CLAUSEN

Grand Master

Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

i3

PROCLAMA TION
Ground Breaking Ceremony
California Masonic Memorial Temple
One of the most important of the matters which have engaged my·
attention 'has •been the plans for building the new California Masonic
Memorial Temple. The need is obvious. When I was Grand Orator
in 1941-with a membership of about 126,000 and some 582 Lodgeseven then the facilities on Van Ness Avenue were far too cramped.
Now that we have grown with our great State to 225,000 members and
655 Lodges, the need is just that much more acute.
The Temple thus will ·b e adequate ·housing for year round administrative activities and for our annual events. It will be a memorial also
to those Brethren of our armed forces who gave their lives that we might
live, a beacon to light the way to Masonry for us and our children, and
a sym:bol high in the western sky to inspire all true lovers of American
freedom.
It will also he a place where you, your friends and families may
visit and linger while enjoying a "billion dollar view."
I am <pleased, therefore, that the Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems,
Ch8irman of the Memorial Building Committee, and the Most Worshipful Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary, report to me the following
progress: We own, free and clear, the site atop Nob Hill, for which
we <paid $730,000.00. This land and the money on hand from contributions and some other sources is a'bout $1,900,000.00. Of this, the campaign to date has produced $1,145,000.00 from 67,613 contributors.
The campaign will continue and at the present rate of receipts it is
expected as of October this year to produce an additional $75,000.00.
Funds of $2,750,000.00 and an additional $250,000.00, if required,
have •been offered by six banks. The loan would bear 4 % interest on
money if and as used, on a ten-year period, and with the privilege of
accelerating payments. This loan could .be retired from the present
$1.00 per capita, producing about $225,000.00 a year, and the present
$9.00 per Candidate, producing about $75,000.00 a year, ·both items
having lbeen written into our Ordinances. This would make a total of
$300,000.00 available annually. Also, there would be available from the
completed structure income of the garage designed for 450 cars and
rentals of the auditorium. Surveys have estimated this combined income
at $100,000.00 a year.
Consequently, I have decided that as of October this year the time
will have been reached to · START CONSTRUC TION. Having in
mind that we shall meet in Annual Communication commencing October

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

24, I therefore proclaim Wednesday, October 26, Ground Breaking
Day," to !he observed by the Craft in Grand Lodge assembled. Features
of the Day will include a public Ceremony at the Site commemorating the
event and bearing witness to "the untiring. unending industry of the
Free and Accepted Masons of California and Hawaii."
All honor to the 67,613 members whose contributions have made
possible the program thus far! Their participation is sincerely appreciated.
· Your hdp by continued support and by contributions is necessary.
Send your contribution through your Lodge Secretary so your Lodge
may meet its quota. This will also enable you to say: "]was part of the
building of the Temple and of this new epoch in the history of California
Masonry."
·
HENRY

c. CLAUSEN

Grand Master

Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

45

EXHIBIT "E"
DEc1s10N

No. 1A

Reference is made to report of Jurisprudence Committee on Decision
No. 11 of Grand Master Harwell ( 1954: 80, 268).
I referred the matter to Worshipful Brother Alex Duncan, Inspector
of the District in which the initiating lodge is located, with instructions
to investigate all the facts and report to me. His report follows:
"Reference is made to letter of May 13, 1955, requesting a report on
Decision No. 11 of Grand Master Harwell and the report of the Jurisprudence Committee thereon. Investigation has disdosed the following
facts:
"A petition dated November 8. 1952, was received in Eel River
Lodge at the stated meeting for Nove!dber, 1952. Unaccountable delays
deferred actual rejection until May 9, 1953.
"Applicant presented a petition to Semper Virens Lodge dated No.vemher 20, 1953, wherein his answers to Questions 8 and 9 both read,
'Yes. Eel River Lodge, November, 1952.' This petition was not received in Semper Virens Lodge until the stated meeting for January,
1954, and the committee reporting favorably, the applicant was elected
at the stated meeting in February, 1954.
"No malice was intended hy the petitioner, inasmuch as in his ignor..
ance of our procedure he had no way of knowing the actual date of his
rejection.
"The recommenders did verify that the original petition had been
received in November, 1952, and noting that fifteen months had elapsed,
checked no further.
"A study of Ded~ion No. 11 of Grand Master Harwell and the Rep..
port of the Committee on Jurisprudence thereon, together with the facts
herein stated, causes me to recommend that no further action be taken
and that Decision No. 11 of Grand Master Harwell be upheld."
It appears to me from the above that the Investigating Committee
should have checked the date of rejection. But under the peculiar facts
set forth in Brother Duncan's letter, in my judgment there was not any
purposeful deception on the part of the applicant or any rank dereliction
of duty on the part of the Committee. I do stress, however, the impor..
tance of Investigating Committees making a thorough inquiry into the
factual data set forth in a petitioner's application.
Accordingly, I have decided that Grand Master Harwell's Decision
No. 11 should be affirmed, and I so rule.
·
DECISION

No. lB

Reference is made to the report of the Jurisprudence Committee on
Decision No. 20 of Grand Master Harwell ( 1954:83, 270).

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This involved an applicant who falsely answered the question of
whether ·be knew of any moral reason which would prevent him from
becoming a Mason. He concealed his prior conviction of a felony.
I referred the matter to the Inspector of the District in which the
lodge involved is located.
He reported he was certain the investigation procedure had been
properly and efficiently ·performed, and that the mistake was not caused
by laxness of the brethren but O:>y deception of the applicant.
DEc1s10N No. 2
our Application for the Degrees apply to a
of
13
No.
Does question
research group?
The answer is "yes". The purpose of the 1953 amendment was to
assure that a new Master Mason contributed his time and efforts to his
lodge for at least a year before expanding into other Masonic activities.
The amendment made no exceptions. (Compare 1954: 81 ) •
DECISION No. 3
Does the prohibition of Question 13 in the application for degrees, as
amended in 1953, apply to a Masonic Club the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason looking toward a
dispensation for a new Lodge?
The answer is "yes". (Decision 14: 1954).
DEc1s10N No. 4
Where a lodge invested some IJfe Membership Funds in a now
defunct Building and Loan Association, and received thereafter obligations of a liquidating corporation, also bankrupt, should the reports
of the lodge show Life Memberships or should the lodge put its own
funds into a separate account to cover the Memberships and invest its
funds for that purpose1
The lodge has no authority to invest its own funds in a life membership fund. It could not have done so in the flrst instance. R.D. 157
restricts the use of lodge funds.
A lodge may use its funds to purchase life memberships only where
it is purchased as a testimonial to a retiring master. (R.D. 545,158).
The lodge must maintain and report the "fund" permanently, I
think, however, that for the sake of realism it should show that the
investments of these particular life memlbership funds are now worthless.

No. 5
May a lodge or temple association invest its funds in state or federal
building and loan associations?
The answer is "No:·
. """ ,_,._
DECISION

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

47

The California Superintendent of Banks bas ruled recently as
follows:
"For your information, Chapter 1034 of the Statutes of 1939 provided that all shares issued by a Federal Savings and Loan Association
were legal for investments by savings banks, provided the association
was an insured institution, as defined in Title IV, National Housing
Act. However, as the Banking Law (Sections 1354 to 1366, Financial
Code of California) is the later enactment, we feel that the provisions
of Chapter 1034 of the Statutes of 1939 have been superseded by the
Banking Law and that the shares issued by the Federal Savings and
Loan Association are not at this time legal for investment by California
savings !banks and that no certificates, shares or other evidences of
ownership of federal or state savings and loan associations are legal at
the ·present time for investment by California savings hanks."
Since Masonic law does not permit lodge or temple association investments which are illegal for savings banks ( R.D. 151 ) and since
building and loan associations are not within any exceptions ( R.D. 152,
152.1) it follows the answer must be "no."
DECISION No. 6
May a Lodge solicit donations from its members for redecorating the
Lodge room and use its monthly bulletin to explain and solicit such
funds?
The answer is "yes".
In my opinion, R. D. 126 does not apply to solicitation by a Lodge of
its own members. It merely prohibits solicitation of others. It long has
been the practice of Lodges to obtain funds from its own memrbers, such
as for construction of lodge halls and relief.
DECISION No. 7
Where a Lodge, pursuant to resolution, has set up a trust fund and
received contributions for the purpose of building a new Temple and
preserving an old one, may the funds be diverted to building an addition
to the old Temple?
The resolution of the lodge is not too clear in its stated purpose. The
preamble clauses indicate that it is the desire of the lodge that a trust
fund be set up in its treasury to be used only "for the purpose of building
the new temple and of preserving the old one". The resolution itself,
however, is that the fund shall not be expended "for any purpose other
than that of building or acquiring a Lodge hall or temple". The next
paragraph states that all money donated "for the purpose of the acquisition of a new Masonic Temple 1b y said lodge or the preservation of the
present lodge hall". shall be placed in the building fund. The sulbscription itself states that it is "to ·be used only for the purpose of acquiring
a new Masonic lodge ·hall for the lodge so that the present hall may be
preserved" •

49

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

If the alternative purpose can be read into the resolution, then the
fund could be used to ·build an addition to the old building, as it would
be for the purpose of preserving the old building. In view of the preamble clause and the other language, it seems to me that the resolution
can reasonably be construed to include the building of a new addition
to the present hall, which would be to preserve the old one.
There is, however, a further consideration which enters into the
problem. This plan of financing was adopted by the lodge in violation of
the ordinances of Grand Lodge. R.D. 78, as it then read. provided that
no financing for the purchase or alteration of a ·building requiring expenditure of more than $2,500.00 shall be entered into without first
obtaining consent of the Committee on Lodge Financing. The term
"financing" embraced any plan or scheme whereby money was to be
obtained for the purposes.
Since the fund is only a fraction of what will be necessary. it is my
opinion that the matter should be referred at this time to the Committee
on Lodge Financing for consideration, and if not approved. that the fund
be returned to the donors.

present at two consecutive stated meetings of the lodge. This undoubtedly would be necssary for authorizing a transfer of the property.
There can be no doubt of the economic feasibility of the proposed
transfer. This would enable the lodge to perpetuate the cemetery without expense to the lodge.
Under the plan adopted in 1924, the Treasurer of the lodge was to
place in a perpetual reserve fund the moneys received from the sale or
reservation of graves to Masons and their families. This was to be
known as the New Masonic Lawn Cemetery Fund, and deposited in
a bank. The :principal of the fund was not to be used, but only the
interest, for maintenance and care of the cemetery. In short, the moneys
were to be received by the lodge as a perpetual trust fund.
If this were an undertaking commenced in recent times, there would
be much doubt in my opinion whether the lodge could engage in this
activity. R.D. 605 holds that a lodge may provide a suitable place of
burial of its dead and that the expense of purchase of such is a legitimate expense, including expenditures to keep it in good condition.

48

DECISION No. 8
\.Yhere Natoma Lodge No. 64 since 1860 has held cemetery property or most of it and since 1924 by resolution acquired additional pro~
erty and adopted a plan for operation and maintenance of the cemetery,
may the Lodge be relieved of its obligations assumed as a trust for its
deceased members and others by a transfer of the property with the
assumption of the Lodge obligations?
The answer is "yes."
This is so in view of the Resolution adopted by Grand Lodge relating
to Decision No. 12 of Grand Master Harwell. ( 1954:269). The Grand
Master had decided that the lodge could not transfer the Livermore
cemetery to a cemetery association to be created under California law.
The Jurisprudence Committee held. however, that in view of the desirability of relieving the lodge of the burden of maintaining the cemetery
forever, the lodge should not be forbidden to transfer title to the cemetery district. Grand Lodge adopted the resolution permitting the lodge
to trans£ er its title to the new cemetery district.
I think the same principles control here as to the proposed transfer
to a responsible individual who will form a cemetery association and
assume the obligations of the lodge for maintenance and care of the
cemetery. It might be desirable. however, if a decision is made in favor
of such transfer, to have it approved by special resolution of Grand
Lodge.
It appears that Natoma Lodge has held the cemetery property. or
most of it, since 1860, and in 1924 by resolution acquired additional
lots and adopted a plan for operation and maintenance of the cemetery.
The resolution could be amended only by two thirds vote of those

DECISION No. 9
May a Lodge purchase with lodge ftl'1ds and present to a newly
instituted lodge a set of Deacons' rods and bases?
The answer is "yes...
The lodge desires to present to Claude H. Morrison Lodge U.D. a
set of Deacons' rods and bases, to be purchased from lodge funds.
R.D. 616(a) is a decision by Grand Master Moore in 1947 to the
effect that lodge funds cannot be used to assist another lodge.
I think, hqwever, that the basis of that decision is hardly applicable
to the question involved here.
R.D. 159 permits a lodge to expend not to exceed 30% of its total
revenue for purposes of refreshment "and the promotion of fraternal
intercourse". In R.D. 634, it was decided that the expression "promotion
of fraternal intercourse" is very comprehensive, and as long as a subordinate lodge, in good faith, uses the social funds so that the general
interest and increased activity in the work of the order is promoted, it
should be permitted so to do.
The practice of making small presents of equipment to new lodges
has become traditional and to my mind tends to promote fraternal intercourse between lodges in the community. I think this properly can be
held to be within the broad interpretation of the phrase used in R.D. 159.
DECISION No. 10
May Lodges expend from their refreshment fund monies with which
to subscribe to the California Freemason and send it to every member
of the Lodge,
The answer is "yes."
.Sec. 159 permits a lodge in its discretion to expend not to exceed

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

30% of its total revenue for purposes of refreshments "and the promotion of fraternal intercourse."
In the decision of Grand Master Bledsoe, approved in 1915 (R.D.,
Sec. 634) he said " 'Promotion of fraternal intercourse' is a very comprehensive expression, and as long as a subordinate Lodge, in good
faith, uses the social funds to such an end as that general interest and
increased activity in the work of the order is promoted it is my belief
that the supervisory powers of the Grand Lodge should be held in
restraint."
On this premise he approved the purchase and bestowing of certi6cates of proflciency in the third degree. By the same line of reasoning, Grand Master Gist approved the use of the refreshment fund to
defray expenses in sponsoring Public Schools Week programs.
The pU'blication of the California Freemason is a project sponsored
by Grand Lodge for the education and information of members of
the Craft and to promote the general interest of the Craft.
It seems to me that the use of funds for such purpose comes within
the rules thus laid down and that thereby general interest and increased
activity in the work of the Order will be promoted.

with ~y surplus income going to the Lodge for use in its general fund?
The answer is "yes."
The Lodge may Invest its funds up to 40% in common stocks such
as the stock in question, fully listed and registered on a National Securities Exchange. ( 152.1 R.D.).
The Lodge also may accept funds donated in trust for a specific
purpose and use the funds for that purpose. ( 157 R.D.).

50

DEc1s10N No. 11
May a lodge authorize its trustees to buy or sell lodge securities,
without approval or direction of the lodge?
The answer is "no." It is required that the trustees of a lodge "always
be under its control," and act "as the lodge shall direct." (R.D. 154,
600, 601 ).
DEc1s10N No. 12
May a lodge in its operations under the Prudent Man Rule for
lodge investments employ its own investment advisor and not confer
and counsel with the investment advisor of Grand Lodge?
The answer is "no." It is required that the lodge "confer and counsel
as to any such proposed or contemplated investments with the professional investment advisor used lby Grand Lodge." ( R.D. 152.1 ) •
It is observed, 'however, that while the lodge shall "confer and
counsel" with the professional investment advisor used by Grand Lodge,
whose fees will •be paid by Grand Lodge, this does not make mandatory
that the lodge follow such advice. It may well obtain independent
advice elsewhere, such as from another investment ad.visor, if it so
desires, provided it also confers and counsels with the investment advisor of Grand Lodge.
DEc1s10N No. 13
May a Lodge accept a gift of American Telephone and Telegraph
Company stock where a portion of the income shall be used by the
Lodge for upkeep of a cemetery plot owned by the family of the donor,

51

DEc1s10N No. 14
May Lodges issue lapel pins designating twenty-five year's membership?
The answer is .,yes".
This is comparable to trowels for candidates and comes under the
category of promotion of fraternal intercourse. ( 159, 636 R.D.). The
term is comprehensive. ( 637 R.D.).
From what source of funds should such lapel pins be paid?
It would appear that payment properly should be made from the
refreshment fund. ( 159 R.D. ).
DECISION No. 15
May lodge funds 'be used to support a bowling league or team?
The anwser is "no".
The matter is a combined policy and legal question. The line has to
be drawn some place and it ·has been held that a lodge may not pay the
ex·penses of a <brother in attending a meeting of a Masonic Veterans
Association, ~n organization not recognized by Grand Lodge or the
constituent lodges. ( 623 R.D.). It is common knowledge that a howling
league or team is supported in the form of equipment and clothing. Also
that there is a certain amount of promotion of good will thereby engendered. But I am inclined to the view that this cannot be held to be a
matter of fraternal intercourse, since there are involved a limited amount
of members. If a lodge should pay this, then it might not refuse the
support of a golf team in a golf tournament and similar athletic ventures.
And a Masonic lodge is not an athletic club.
DEc1s10N No. 16
Who are "charter" members of a Lodge, those named in the dispensation for the formation of the Lodge or those who are members of the
Lodge when a charter is issued?
In my opinion, those members who are named in the dispensation
for the formation of the new Lodge are the only "charter" members. The
later issuance of an actual charter relates back to the dispensation. An
analogous situation would be the question from what date the anniversary of the Lodge dates, from the dispensation or from the charter. It

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

has been held that the anniversary date properly is the date of issuance
of dispensation by the Grand Master ( R.D. 101, 456).
DECISION No. 17
Does a member who has been in good standing for about thirty years
but who has received his degree some fifty years ago, qualify to receive
a 50-year button?
The answer is "no".
R.D. 658 requires that the recipients shall have been "master masons
in good standing for fifty years or more."
R.D. 658 (a) holds that a brother is not in good standing during a
dimit. Similarly, he would not be in good standing during suspension for

NPD.
DEasroN No. 18
What interpretation should ibe given R.D. 255, dealing with 40-year
and 75-year Masons, in respect of remission of dues under the conditions
stated?
On the matter of remission of dues for 40-year Masons and 75-year
old Masons, it is my opinion that our laws never were intended to relieve
men of the duty of paying dues, nor of the privilege of permitting them
to pay dues. To do so merely because the number of years has been
satisfied is almost the same as granting a life membership. This, of
course, is in violation of our laws. It seems to me that the Sections were
intended for distinguished service and to be applied only in those marginal cases where there may be ability to pay but where a hardship still
would be worked.
It is a privilege to pay dues in a Masonic Lodge. We frequently lose
sight of that privilege in this country where Masonic Lodges may function and where members may be known freely as Masons without fear
of reprisal by church or government. This is not true everywhere in the
world. A man should consider it a high privilege to help bear the cost
of his own Lodge and of the Grand Lodge and thus make his contribution toward the onward marc:h of Masonry.

19
May a man eighteen years of age. initiated, passed and raised
in Scotland by a Lodge recognized by us, be accorded rights of visitation
and affiliation in California?
The answer is "yes."
The brother is what has been termed a "Lewis," being under 21 and
the son of a Mason, and, having submitted proof of current membership
in a recognized Lodge, and having passed satisfactory examination, may
visit and is eligible for affiliation. He is a Master Mason in good standing. The fact that age requirements in another jurisdiction, recognized
by us, differ from our own does not alter the situation. Our age reDECISION No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

quirement of twenty-one years applies to an applicant for the degrees
in California. (RD. 208, 866, 250, 420) .
DEasioN No. 20
What procedure should .be followed where a candidate for the degrees has refused to ,be divested of all minerals and metals, insisting on
retaining a wedding ring on his finger because of his marriage vows?
The candidate should lbe rejected.
The ritual requires the devestiture. The candidate in his application
has promised to conform to all the ancient usages and regulations.
The ritual itself is binding law ( R.D. 650, 801c) and must be adhered
to by all lodges and Masons ( R.D. 247). After a refusal to conform to
the ritual. the Master at the next regular meeting of the Lodge should
declare the candidate rejected.
There have been cases where minerals and metals cannot be removed,
such as a ring where the finger has become too large to permit its removal.
In such cases substantial compliance has been permitted and the ring has
been taped and disregarded. The question posed here, ·however, is different because the candidate actually can comply but refuses so to do.
DECISION No. 21
Where an applicant stated in answer to question 6 of the application
that he had not resided in California for the requisite time, but nevertheless is accepted, elected and receives the first degree, following which on
objection made the applicant is stopped, a claim being made, however,
substantiated by evidence, that the applicant did not have his rights
under Ross Digest 238, 239 and 240, what procedure should be followed
when the applifant now desires to proceed? What does he do and what
does the Lodge do?
I have reached the following conclusions:
1. Residence in Masonry must be actual. rather than constructive
( R.D. 684). Therefore, applicant's original petition ruled out the possibility of residence. The Victorville Lodge overlooked this fact and
accepted applicant.
2. But that Lodge having assumed jurisdiction, applicant's lack of
residence does not affect his present status as an Entered Apprentice.
(R.D. 691 ).
3. The Lodge, after committee recommendation, apparently voted to
sustain the objection (Oct. 6, 1946). The fact that the subject was denied
certain of his rights under R.D. Sec. 238-9-40, should certainly require
a proper reconsideration by the Lodge if the subject so desires or so
·
requests.
4. If the applicant does not care to question the procedure, however,
but accepts the actioh of the Lodge sustaining the objection, he now has
two alternatives:
(a) He may submit his petition with fee to Victorville Lodge.
( b) He may submit ·his regular petition to the Lodge where he pres-

55

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ently resides (with fee) and request them to obtain consent and waiver
of jurisdiction from Victorville Lodge.
( c) These petitions must ·be processed and voted on in the regular
manner (unanimous).
See Sections 818 . . 819, Ross Digest.

If dispensation is not thus granted it would appear necessary that the
applicant ask a waiver of jurisdiction from some lodge in Pomona.

54

DECISION No. 22
Does an applicant for the degrees of Masonry meet our residence
requirements when he has lived or resided within the jurisdiction of the
Lodge for six months 1before his application, hut during that time has
resided at two different addresses?
The answer is "yes".
There is no requirement that the candidate reside at the same ad ...
dress for the six months ·period. The dispensation power of Ross Digest,
Sec. 216 may be invoked if the candidate changed his address so as not
to have the qualiflcation of residence.
DEc1s10N No. 23
Is an applicant for the degrees of Masonry qualified in respect of
residence if he has been away from the State of California for three years
as a civilian employee engaged in work for our Armed Forces, although
during his absence he has maintained residence and mailing address in
the jurisdiction of the Lodge?
The answer is "yes".
I think the applicant has the required residence. R.D. 684 seems to
require residence "in fact", yet in several later rulings of Grand Lodge
the express or manifest intent of the party, as shown hy the facts of the
case, has determined residence. ( R.D. 687, 689 and 694). This seems a
more reasonable interpretation. Otherwise some of our most distin. .
guished citizens would be forever barred from Masonic membership. The
applicant in the instant case apparently never has adopted a residence
elsewhere, ·b ut had maintained his California residence and mailing ad ...
dress with the clear intent to return and have this as •his permanent
residence.
DECISION No. 24
Where a member of the United States Navy is not a member of the
crew of a specific naval vessel whose port had been designated as Stock...
ton, the place of the lodge to whom this person made application for the
degrees of Masonry, he having resided at Stockton less than six months
and having a permanent residence at Pomona, what procedure should
be followed 1
It would seem that the lodge could receive the application most simply
by requesting the Grand Master to grant a dispensation for that purpose
under R.D. 216.

DECISION No. 25
Where a Lodge has waived jurisdiction in favor of another Lodge,
may the Lodge which had original jurisdiction also, in all cases, receive
the application?
The answer is "no".
The lodge granting the waiver surrenders its jurisdictional rights
over the applicant, including its right to receive his petition for the de...
grees. ( R.D. 575). No other lodge than the one specified in the waiver
is authorized to receive his petition ( R.D. 711 ) , unless he is rejected and
12 months have elapsed (R.D. 709).
In the present case, Coalinga Lodge granted a waiver in favor of
Welcome Lodge. The man, however, did not present his application to
Welcome Lodge. There is no time limit on the waiver and the authority
continues until an application is presented by the man to Welcome
Lodge. In my opinion, the man can present his application only to W el...
come Lodge, so long as the jurisdiction remains the same.
If, of course, the man had moved out of the Coalinga Lodge jurisdic. .
tion into the jurisdiction of another Lodge, I believe the force and effect
of the unused waiver would cease, and after he had resided 6 months in
the new residence, the other Lodge could receive his application or grant
a waiver. If he had moved into the jurisdiction of the Welcome Lodge
after residence of 6 months, Welcome Lodge would have original juris. .
diction ( R.D. 702).
The Maste"r's letter does not state whether the man moved before or
after granting the waiver, or if he has moved again. He may now be
ineligible for applying to any lo~ge for lack of sufficient residence.
DECISION No. 26
May a California Lodge confer a courtesy degree or degrees on an
amputee member of another jurisdiction?
The answer is "yes."
It appears that the applicant •became such after he received the second
degree in a recognized jurisdiction. Hence, Grand Master Paulsen's
Dec. (1951) (R.D. 515) clearly covers the point. If the applicant was
an amputee before he took any degrees, and was, nevertheless, advanced
to the degree of fellow craft in a recognized jurisdiction which did not
hold his disability disqualifying. he is none the less a fellow craft mason,
though now a resident of California. The rationale of Grand Master
Patton's Dec. ( 1900) ( R.D. 886) together with RD. 515 requires that
he be allowed to make application for his third degree in the California
Lodge.
1

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

DECISION No. 27

So far as conferring a degree in merely a "sym1bolic manner" is con..
cerned, I think that is out of the question under our ritual. It would be
permissible, in my opinion, to confer a degree with the exercise of ex..
treme care. Whether the degrees could be conferred on the man in
question with the exercise of caution does not appear.

Is a person physically qualified to receive the degrees of Masonry
who has suffered the loss of his left leg?
The answer is "no". ( R.D. 208, 888 (a), 883).
While the law in some jurisdictions differs from ours with respect to
physical qualifications it is clear that in California the man in question
would lack the requisite physical qualifications and no authority is given
to grant a dispensation to waive lack of physical qualifications.
DECISION No. 28

Where military personnel must respond to an "alert" summons in
the midst of conferral of a degree, so that necessarily the degree cannot
be completed on the day of commencement, what procedure should be
followed?
The Master must, of course, comply with R.D. 192, Third, and
complete the degree at the time it is conferred, in the absence of such
emergent situations as fire, sickness, or requirements of national defense
over which the lodge officers have no control. ( 1952, 78, 264)
Accordingly, under the facts stated, the following procedure should
govern:
First, if the Master is forewarned of a possible "alert," he should
defer commencement of the degree.
Second, if there is no forewarning, as is most apt, the Master should
proceed as outlined and approved by Grand Lodge. ( 1954, 78, 264)
DECISION No. 29
Where an applicant for the degrees of Masonry is unable without
danger to fulfill the physical requirements by reason of a back injury
from which he has not yet recovered, may the degrees be conferred in
a symbolic manner?
The answer is "no."
Under R.D. 208, an applicant must be physically alble to conform
substantially to what the several degrees require. The question as to
the physical sufficiency of the applicant is left to the sound discretion
of the lodge. The lodge in this case itself has determined the question.
I assume that the man has not actually been rejected, but that his
application has been withdrawn, as permitted by R.D. 227. That would
be the proper procedure. The secretary's letter, however, refers to both
rejection and to return of the petition. Consequently, I am of the opinion
that no one can now question the propriety of the action of the lodge
in determining that at the present time this applicant is not physically
capable of conforming.
There is no indication as to how incapacitated the applicant is at
the present time, only that he may recover sufficiently to conform.

DECISION

57

No. 30

Where successive objections are lodged against advancement of an
EAM and committees are appointed for this purpose by the Master
but the objections then being withdrawn until on a further objection
the Master appointed a committee and set a date for hearing, is noti..
fication to appear by first ..class mail to the candidate sufficient?
The answer is "yes."
R.D. 298 permits a notice to be sent 'by first class mail if personal
service is not convenient. It does not appear here that service by mail
was insufficient under the circumstances. The further fact, if true, that
the objector was not notified would not seem to be prejudicial to the
candidate.
Under the procedure set forth in R.D. 238 to 240, if the objection
charged seems sufficient to the Master, he shall appoint a committee
to inquire into the cause of the objection, fix the time and place of meet..
ing and have the objector and applicant notified thereof. The committee
is to meet at the time and place fixed and the Secretary or some brother
appointed in his place must record the proceedings. Any statement
made is to be taken down in narrative or other form by the Secretary or
by qualified stenographer. The committee has entire charge of the
investigation and must report at the next stated meeting, stating the
cause of the dbjection and its conclusions thereon. The lodge then votes
by secret ballot and the decision of two..thirds is final.
The proceeding is in effect a trial. The committee is to hear the
evidence and report the facts. The members of the lodge are exclusive
judges whether the cause assigned was proved and if proved whether
it constitutes a valid cause. (Sec. 815).
It does not appear what evidence was taken at the hearing, but
minutes of a stated meeting show the Master reported on the objection.
It also appears that some brother reported a hearsay claim that the
candidate had served a jail sentence for deserting his family. Another
brother made a similar report and told how the candidate's family had
been deserted. The lodge proceeded to vote 39 to 1 against advance..
~ent. The master announced the result and directed the remaining fees
be returned.
There is therefore a further question posed:
What is the effect of non..compliance with R.D. 2397
In this case the only record appears to be the minutes of the stated

58

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

meeting so apparently section 239 was not followed. If there were a
record as required by section 239 it would appear that in this case
there was some evidence to sustain the objection. But apparently the
procedural requirements of section 239 were not followed.
There is nothing before me to indicate that the committee made any
record. Nor is there before me any statements of the committee report
to the lodge. The action of the lodge appears to have been based upon
verbal statements made at the stated meeting.
Assuming the above to be the facts, I direct the Master to have the
committee meet at some time and place to be by him fixed, and to notify
the objector and applicant of the meeting of the committee, and see
that the proper record of the meeting and statements lbe kept by the Secretary as required by section 239. The committee should make its report
and state its conclusions at a stated meeting of the lodge, and a ballot
should lbe had. The action of the lodge would then be regular and
conclusive.

In the case of ( 1 ) , the person is a barkeeper within the decisions of
Grand Masters Drapeau and Harwell to the effect that one who only
~casionally serves cocktails is a bartender ( 1952: 37, 326: 1954: 78,

DEc1s10N No. 31
May one of the references on an application for the degrees be a
woman?
The answer is "yes."
There is no Masonic law which requires that references must be of
the male sex, nor do I see any reason for such a limitation. There is, of
course, no requirement that references be Masons.
DECISION No. 32
Is an applicant, who is engaged in selling beer and wine by the glass
and bottle over a bar in a comer of his grocery store, eligible for the
degrees of Masonry?
The answer is "no." ( R.D. 210).
This opinion supersedes the informal opinion of the Grand Secretary dated March 10. I am sure that he did not have presented to him
the full facts.
DEc1s10N No. 33
Is a person a !barkeeper within the meaning of Ross Digest, Sec. 210.
who ( 1 ) is the owner of a dining room with a bar and during off seasons, when no regular bartender is employed, occasionally serves drinks
at the bar; ( 2 ) is part owner of a bona fide cafe and restaurant employing a bartender during the busy season and who, at the present time,
works a regular shift at the bar; and ( 3) is owner of a combination bar
and restaurant the kitchen of which has been discontinued and a direct
entrance provided for the bar and who regularly serves drinks at the bar?
T ·h e person in each case must be considered a barkeeper within the
meaning of the Masonic law.

59

264).

In the case of ( 2), the person would be a barkeeper for the same
reasons as in ( 1 ) above, except the reasons therefor would be clearer.
In the case of ( 3 ), this person unquestionably would be a barkeeper
and would have been so held under earlier decisions, 887 and 887 (a).

DECISION No. 34
Where there is balloting under R.D. 234 and a cube appears, but
the Master does not permit a reballot for correction of possible mistake,
what procedure should be followed?
It appears that a new petition should be Sled and that the Lodge
by vote should request a dispensation of the Grand Master to receive
and act on the new petition because there is reason to believe that a
mistake has been made in the balloting. ( R.D. 34, Par. 4: 219)
T·he reason for this is because the applicant stands rejected despite
the error of the Master, and a reballot cannot be held on the same application after rejection. ( R.D. 427, 428, 430 (a) )
DECISION No. 35
May an application for the degrees be withdrawn by the applicant
for presentation to another Lodge which meets on a different night?
The answer is "no."
The reason assigned does not fall within the exceptions noted in

n1R.n

.

It is suggested that there be conveyed to the applicant the possibility
of affiliation, following election, with a Lodge which meets on a more
suitable night.
1

DECISION No. 36
Is an applicant eligible for the degrees of Masonry when his history
shows that at the age of 18 he pleaded guilty to a felony charge, namely,
setting a fire next to a public domain, he being fatherless and without
counsel and not realizing the seriousness of the charge?
In 1875 (R.D. 875) Grand Lodge held that those who had served
prison terms were ineligible for the degrees of Masonry. In 1951 a
move was made by Grand Master Paulsen to set aside this effect of
R.D. 875, but after lengthy reports by the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, concurred in ·b y the Committee on Jurisprudence, the
Grand Lodge adhered to the prior ruling.
It seems to me these Committees feel that imprisonment in the state
or federal prison is what debars an applicant. For example, the report
on page 267 ( 1951) said, "The man sentenced to a state prison is one

60

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

whom the trial judge considers unworthy of probation, usually because
he is before the court with a record of other criminal convictions. It is
this class whom it is now proposed to make eligi'ble to petition our
Lodges.''
In 1952 Grand Master Drapeau held that a person convicted of a
felony is ineligible even though he has served no time, and has made
complete restitution. (Proceedings. 1952, rp. 35, Ruling 30). This was
an extension of the 1875 ruling, as affirmed in the 1951 report. Grand
Master Warren,, relying on the decision of Grand Master Drapeau,
held in 1953 (Proceedings, 1953, p. 82) that a person convicted of a
felony is not eligible. even though he received a commuted sentence
and a presidential pardon. These decisions were approved by the Jurisprudence Committee and by Grand Lodge. In my opinion in so doing
we were wrong.
In 1953, Grand Lodge, on the recommendation of the Jurisprudence
Committee, overruled Grand Master Warren and held that a deserter
from the Army is eligible for membership even though he served one
year in a military prison, because under federal law a felony requires
imprisonment for more than one year.
The inconsistency of these various rulings is apparent and pose
the following considerations:
1. A person convicted of Grand Theft or Forgery who receives
only one year in the county jail, which he may under California law,
is guilty of a misdemeanor only, and is eligible, but one who is convicted of the same offense in Texas or elsewhere and receives a commuted sentence or is granted probation may be convicted of a felony
and be not eligible.
2. Is a person who serves one year under a military court martial
for armed robbery eligible because it is a misdemeanor under federal
law, while one who steals a calf (which may be a felony in Texas), and
is given a suspended sentence and a Presidential pardon not eligi'hle7
3. What about the numerous offenses in California such as Grand
Theft which provide for both jail sentences and prison terms? In view
of the Drapeau and Warren decisions, is the person receiving a misdemeanor jail sentence eligible while one receiving a suspended sentence
or probation ineligible?
4. How about the California Attorney General's opinion that one
receiving probation is not guilty of a felony in California? This, of
course, would not apply to federal violations. Because of a difference
in possible penalties or designations of crimes as to felonies and misdemeanors in the state and federal law, are we to distinguish as to
eligibility, when identical crimes are in fact committed? Many more
questions could be asked.
I think the most sensible thing to do is to go by the 1875 Grand
Lodge ruling as affirmed in 1951. Thus in my opinion the test is whether

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

61

an applicant has served a term of imprisonment in the state or federal
prison: for, if so, he does not come under the tongue of good report as
a matter of Masonic Law.
.Jn the present case under the Drapeau and Warren rulings, the
applicant Winslow would not he eligible because he was convicted of
a felony, but in my opinion he is eligible. I therefore so rule.
DECISION No. 37
May an application for the degrees of Masonry be received from one
who, when he was 18 or 19 years old, pleaded guilty to a charge of
cattle theft and received a two-year suspended sentence.
The answer is "yes.''
(Decision 36 of Grand Master Clausen).
DECISION No. 38
Is an applicant, who has been court-martialed for rdbbery and who
served an unstated time in a military penal institution, eligible for the
degrees?
The answer is "no.'' (Decision 36 of Grand Master Clausen).
The applicant in this case has been court martialed, and after serving an unstated time in a military penal institution, was given a dishonorable discharge. An inquiry to the Army apparently disclosed that
the applicant had not been convicted of a felony under Federal law.
I assume, therefore, that his sentence was for not more than one year.
The applicant would have ibeen convicted of a felony had he been
charged and tried under state law. Even an unloaded pistol comes
within the definition of a "dangerous" weapon. The crime committed
actually was First Degree Robbery under California law. This carries
a penalty of not less than five years in the state prison. ( R.D. 208, 875:
Penal Code Sections 21 la, 212, 213, 20 McK. Dig. 4 ).
The fact that the applicant was not holding the gun would not alter
the situation. He ·should be rejected.
DECISION No. 39
May lodges and concordant ·bodies publish a bulletin without advertising?
I see no objection to the plan.
This assumes that the service would be offered to all organizations
on a ·proportionate amount per capita. In other words, our Lodges
should not in any manner subsidize the publication by paying a greater
amount than others, since this would be using Lodge funds for the
benefit of other organizations.
Also, inherent in the plan would be the understanding that the
Grand Master may at any time order the books and records of any
such publication made available to him or his designated representative.

62

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE..

No. 40
Does a monthly bulletin published by a local Bethel of the International Order of Job's Daughters come within the purview of Section
127, Ross Digest?
The answer is "yes!"
DECISION No. 41
May a ladies branch of a Grotto of the Mystic Order Veiled Prophets
wear an emblem or pin which includes Masonic Insignia such as a square
and compasses?
The answer is no.
The Grand Lodge is entitled to sole use of its name and insignia for
several reasons. The name and square and compasses emblem has been
protected by prior registration with the Secretary of State of California,
pursuant to the California Corporation s Code. The unauthorized wearing of fraternal organization insignia is prohibited by civil law under
Penal Code of California Sec. 538 ( b).
DECISION

No. 42
Is the Master of a Lodge, named as such in a dispensation for a new
Lodge, entitled to be considered and to the title of Past Master if he
does not serve until the end of his term and until his successor is
elected and qualified?
The answer is "no." ( R.D. 199, 861 ) •
See notation of withdrawal following Decision No. 72.
DECISION

No. 43
May a Mason or his friends announce pliblicly his Masonic afBlia..
tions in a political campaign?
The answer is "yes" under certain circumstances.
It would be bad taste, if not actual violation of Masonic law and
policy, for a candidate to use any Masonic signs or emblems.
See notation of withdrawal following Decision No. 72.
DECISION

No. 44
In a proposed consolidation of Gravel Range Lodge No. 59 and
Forest Lodge No. 66, what steps are required in compliance with our
law on the subject?
T·his involves the construction of Sections 141 and 475. R.D. Sec..
tion 475, adopted by Grand Lodge, is a construction of Section 141.
Under this procedure, a resolution is first adopted declaring the
consolidation expedient and proposing appointment of a committee to
arrange and report terms. This is to be adopted at a stated meeting.
Ninety days' notice is not required of this meeting.
The lodge has held this stated meeting, has adopted the resolution,
DEc1s10N

63

a committee has been appointed ·b y each lodge and at a meeting of the
respective committees they have agreed upon the terms of consolidation.
This, in my opinion, covers the requirements of paragraph 1 of our
Section 475 and part of paragraph 2.
Paragraph 2 next requires, however, that the respective lodges receive and concur in the reports of their committees. It is necessary that
the lodges at a stated meeting receive and concur in the reports, because
the business can only 1be transacted at a stated meeting. This step has
not been complied with; and under the procedure provided in Section
475, this meeting cannot be avoided, although 90 days' notice thereof
is not required.
Under paragraph 3, when the lodges thus have concurred in the reports of their committees, and the terms of the consolidation have been
agreed upon, notice then must be given by the Secretary of each lodge
to all its members that at a stated meeting to ·be holden on the day named
in the notice, which must be more than 3 months after the time of service,
a resolution for consolidation will come up for final action. In the meantime, pursuant to paragraph 4, the consents of at least three-fourth s of
the members of each lodge must lbe obtained and signed, before the
time for final action.
It will be noted that the stated meeting must be after a notice
which must be more than 3 months after the time of service. Also, that
under Section 298, a notice, when practicable, must be personally served
upon the brother to 1be notified, or if this cannot be conveniently done,
it must be left at his residence or usual place of business, or sent by
ftrst-dass or .registered mail. These requirements may well extend the
3 months period; since the 3 months dates from time of service.
Thus, the steps of consolidation taken to date are in keeping with
our law, and the next steps are as outlined above.
1

No. 45
Should a lodge entertain a motion for a charity at a special meeting?
The answer is "yes."
R.D. Sec. 119 provides for special meetings to be called by the
Master. Sec. 120, by inference, certainly allows "appropriat ions for
charity" to be made at special meetings. A motion to have a committee
appointed to investigate and take care of the brothers financial needs
would seem to be in order. The matter may be an emergency. R.D. 896
(page 475). The Jurisprudence Committee held, "Your Committee is
of the opinion that it is the right of every mem'ber of a Lodge to move, at
any one of its meetings, that the Lodge relieve the distress of any one
of its own members, and that it is not within the discretion of the Master
to refuse to entertain such a motion." Under R.D. 776, the motion was
timely made, and I think should have been entertained.
DEc1s10N

64

c55

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 46
May there be attached to a dues receipt a sticker which shows the
number of years the member has belonged to the fraternity?
The answer is "no."
The ipractice would seem to violate 252 R.D. which provides that
the only receipts for dues to be used by a Lodge shall be "a uniform one
prepared by the Grand Secretary and sold 'by him."
Such a suggested departure from uniformity might lead to others
·
and thus destroy the purpose of the requirement.

I see objections to the sale or possession of the Bi'hle in California,
especially by Lodges, for the following reasons:
The cover displays not only the square and compass, but also emblems of the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. The Bible itself contains
quotations and allusions pertaining to the ~arious degrees of other
organizations and our Lodges. It contains some clear references to
our degrees which in a measure may suggest the content. It also purports to set forth certain things "from the Masonic ritual" ~hi~. ~hile
not esoteric in character, are inaccurate so far as our Cahforrua ntual
is concerned.

DECISION

No. 47
Should the minutes of the Lodge show the exact time when the
stated meeting convenes?
The answer is "yes."
The minutes of a Lodge are supposed to speak the truth. They
should not record an untruth.
The l,.odge cannot, of course, be convened at any hour earlier than
that prescribed by the by-laws. ( 778-8A R.D.).
It would appear that the practice of convening a lodge in stated
meeting later than the time fixed by the by-laws is subject to censure.
A brother should have a right to rely on the by-laws and to attend at
the time set forth in the by-laws with the expectation that he can take
part in the business of the meeting. That meeting should start at the
prescribed time, as otherwise this brother may be deprived of his right
to sit in at the meeting, by reason of later commitments.
DECISION

DECISION No. 48
This responds to your letter of December 28 in whic'h you ask
whether it would be permissible to present to candidates an "Interpretation of the Blue Degrees" prepared by a member of your Lodge.
The material contains esoteric matter not proper to be written and
circulated by a Mason. The explanation of symbolism offered is apparently that of the individual composer. It also appears to be a Christian interj>retation of the degrees.
Consequently, I do not deem it proper for any Lodge to use this
material. Esoteric matter should not be circulated regardless of whether
it might be found in book stores. The only printed authorized explanations are those in the books of the Candidate, the Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason, issued by Grand
Lodge. Moreover, Masonry is universal and includes all sects, creeds
and colors.

No. 49
This responds to your letter of April 11, concerning the Holman
Indexed Bible.
DECISION

DECISION No. 50
Is it proper to obligate candidates in the Third Degree on a "Gift
Bible"?
The answer is "yes," provided, as recommended by the Ritual Committee some years ago, the Gift Bible is not placed upon the regular
Lodge Bible, !hut is substituted for that Bible during the first section.
DECISION No. 51
May Officers' Jewels and Aprons be used during ~ funeral service?
The answer is "yes," in a Lodge room service, but in a service outside the Lodge room, white aprons only should be worn by officers and
mem•bers alike and without jewels and the Master should use neither
hat nor gavel. (See Report of Grand Lecturer. October, 1954).
The ruling above is prior to the report of a Special Committee to
be appointed by Grand Master Clausen for revision of the funeral
service.
DECISION No. 52
Is it proper to reproduce on panels for use in Lodges non-monitorial
work or symbolism of the three degrees?
The answer is "no.''
The non-monitorial work would be in violation of Masonic law and
the symbolism of the degrees would be poor policy for exhibition to
applicants of the degree or degrees not yet taken.
Attention is invited also to R.D. 127 whkh fotbids use of a lodge
name for a private venture.
DECISION No. 53
May a Lodge use white aprons edged with blue ribbon for sojourners
or visiting brethren?
The answer is "no."
There seems to be no speci8c law on the subject. The only possible
analogous decision might ·b e that of Grand Master Meyer in holding
that the insignia or name of an organization may not be placed on
_
Masonic aprons. (Sec. 507 (a) ) •

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

It is a long established custom that the •brethren should be clothed
in white aprons, except for officers or others wearing aprons of their rank
or office. The .plain white apron is the badge of a Mason, representing
the lambskin apron. There is no reason whatsoever for visiting brethren
to be distinguished in any way from the members of the Lodge.
It would be my opinion that as a matter of policy and established
custom, it ·should not be permitted.
DEc1s10N No. 54
May a Lodge meet and confer a third degree during Grand Lodge
Week?
The answer is "yes," but there is an im•portant question of policy
involved.
While there is no e~press prohibition against Lodge meeting during Grand Lodge Week, any conftict with attendance at Grand Lodge
by Masters and Wardens should be avoided.

a

DEc1s10N No. 55
May a Lodge use a musical score and orchestra in th~ second section?
The answer is "yes" but there are matters of policy involved which
may be paramount.
Each degree conferred must conform to the ritual taught by the
Grand Lecturer and recognized by the Grand Lodge (R.D. 247). The
degrees are not operas or plays. In times past, the Ritual Committee
and the Grand Lecturer have requested that any music be purely incidental and limited to a fe:w places in the work.
The policy in regard to music is similar to that adopted and enforced
in respect of costuming, charts, slides and ftlms. The work is taught
and should be conferred without the use of such props. The emphasis
in this jurisdiction has always been on uniformity. The use of special
props by one lodge would be an incentive to another lodge for something
more elaborate and different. A degree conferred in one place should
be similar to that conferred elsewhere in the State. The use of music
and an orchestra in the conferring of a degree by one Lodge could not
be duplicated everywhere, and such an innovation would not be in
conformity with the adopted work. It is a violation of the rule of
uniformity.
DECISION No. 56
May Grand Lodge officiate in cornerstone ceremonies by inserting
the so-called cornerstone into the side of a wall or in cases where the
cornerstone is not a true supporting stone?

67

The answer is "yes."
The ceremonial and purpose of laying cornerstones is symbolic
primarily. Modern types of construction do not require a true cornerstone, such as one upon which a wall or building may rest. Consequently,
the practice has been to insert a so-called cornerstone into the side of
an outer wall of a building. This, when accom•plished by our time-honored ceremonies, should suffice for our symbolic purposes.

No. 57
May a Master ·be required by lodge resolution to appoint the Marshal in the line of advancing officers following the Junior Deacon?
The answer is "no."
A lodge would deviate from its by-laws in ordering the Master to
appoint the Marshal as Junior Deacon. This is also the sort of action
which could lead to discord.
Article II, Section 1 of the uniform code of By-Laws states that
all appointive officers shall be appointed by the Master. There is no
provision made for the Lodge to order him to appoint any individual
to any certain o~ce. It rests solely in the hands of the Master.
DEc1s10N

No. 58
May a brother, who shot and killed his mother and then committed
suicide, be buried with Masonic honors?
The answer is "no."
The Mastu, with concurrence of the Wardens, may determine the
propriety of burying a suicide (R.D. 265).
But since the suicide in this case had shot and killed his mother,
it seems to me there is some overriding principle of propriety involved.
For. exa~ple, R.D'. 265 prohibits a ·~rother, fallen in a duel, from being
buried with Masonic honors. Masonic policy would seem to indicate that
a brother who ·h ad shot and killed his mother should not be 1buried with
Masonic 'honors.
It was claimed that the brother must have been insane at the time
to have done such a deed. But it should be borne in mind that the law
presumes against insanity. Certainly there was no court adjudication
to that effect. There was no claim of other acts which would indicate
Insanity in law sufficient to excuse a murder.
DEc1s10N

No. 59
. May a Mason sojourning in California possess and use a sypher
ntual he has lawfully received in another jurisdiction and which contains the work of such other jurisdiction?
DECISION

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The answer is "no."
The Grand Lodge of California has made it a Masonic offense to
possess or use cypher rituals in California ( R.D. 502-4: 752).
Hence, a sojourning Mason in California who would use or possess
a cypher ritual in California containing the work of another jurisdiction,
would by such acts violate the Masonic law of California. ( R.D. 590..A).
For such violation, California could enforce its California law on
the subject by disciplinary action against such sojourning Mason ( R.D.
211, 289, 599-A, Landmark 17, page 577 R.D.).
California adheres to the trust of preserving the Ancient Craft
Ritual, with constant vigilance, to the end that, from generation to
generation as the faithful die, the ritual shall be transmitted unimpaired
by the attentive ear, the instructive tongue, and the faithful breast.
W 'hile we realize some other independent and sovereign Grand Lodges
may dispense with secrecy in the preservation of the ritual, nevertheless
California, within the sovereign limits of its jurisdiction, will follow the
admonition of Dr. Albert Mackey, the great American Masonic scholar,
who said: "Freemasonry, as a secret association, has lived unchanged
for centuries-as an open society it would not last for as many years."
Consequently, the California Grand Lodge must, albeit perhaps
reluctantly, in this respect impose its Masonic law upon any sojourning
Mason within the jurisdiction of California.

DECISION No. 61
Does Section 223 R.D. require the waiting period before membership
may be obtained in a so-called Benefit Club which is not a Square Club
or a Social Club, does not visit other Lodges nor participate in "Boor
work," and whose membership is made up only of members of one
Lodge: the purpose of which organization is to aid and assist in charity
work and provide for mutual benefl.ts?
The answer is "yes."
The language of Section 223 R.D. is sweeping and all inclusive, so
that "initiation" in any "organization," as the section presently is
worded. would include the Benefl.t Club. This is so regardless of
whether degree work is or is not performed.
Your attention is invited to the provisions of Masonic law prohibiting lodges from engaging in collateral financial undertakings, including sponsoring widows and orphans' funds ( R.D. 912). Please
study this section. the annotations thereto, and the pertinent provisions
of civil law to see if the activities of your Club are within the bounds
of legality.
A club, controlled or operated by or through a lodge, in reality is
the lodge itself. Hence, what the lodge may not do directly, it may
not do indirectly through a club.
It should also be borne in mind as a matter of policy, if not law,
that a Masonic club within a lodge is not recommended. Experience
has shown they lead to departures from propriety, to loss of direct
lodge supervision, and to cliques and quarrels.

68

DEcis10N No. 60
Were all Masonic legal processes complied with in the rejection of
an Entered Apprentice of King David's Lodge, on objection made after
initiation, in accordance with 238, 239 and 240, R.D.7
It appears from the fl.le in the case, which has been reviewed by me,
that compliance has been had in accordance with the pertinent provisions of Masonic law. Consequently, the objection was sufficient to
bar the advancement. The cause assigned was specifl.c in nature, contrary to the facts of 807 R.D. In that case the objection itself was inadequate and extremely general. The Masonic procedure may seem
arbitrary as compared to criminal proceedings in our courts, but we
are dealing with membership in a Lodge and the rights of its members
of self-determination.
It must be presumed, and the contrary does not appear from the file,
that the Lodge mem·bership was not misled or confused as to the findings of the Investigating Committee. The membership was not bound
to follow the report or vote in conformity with the findings. Nor, has
there been any sufficient showing of irregularity or misleading conduct
on the part of the Master conducting the meeting at which the Committee
on Investigation reported.

69

DEc1s10N No. 62
In view of the new postal "certified" mail available in place of what
formerly may have been "registered" mail, may certifl.ed mail be used
in the places and for the purposes specified in our Masonic law for
registered mail?
The answer is "no."
The Lodges should go on using "Registered" mail until our Masonic
laws are amended and amplified. In view of the fact, however, that we
are interested primarily in receipted notices rather than protection of
the contents of the letters, it would seem to me that the new "certified"
mail classifkation would serve our purposes and also save money.
I recommend, therefore, that we amend R.D. 257 and 308 accordingly. The amendment also should provide that the letter is to be delivered to "addressee only."

.

DECISION No. 63
Complaints have ·been received by me of lodges or members of lodges

70

71

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

acting under lodge auspices: ( 1) doing through "Clubs" indirectly what
cannot be done directly: ( 2) playing bingo: and ( 3 ) making trips to
Nevada without dispensation of the Grand Master and for purposes
prohibited in California.
One lodge bulletin, for example, set forth the following as proposed
lodge functions:
"RENO BY PLANE!! !! HERE IT IS!! The complete cost is only
$35.00 rper person and you receive a $10.00 refund on arrival in Reno
as a gift from Harold's Club. Included ... Four Cocktail Parties."
"GIFT NITE. Well, that's what we have to call it, even though
it's true. You know, it's that game where you put beans on numbered
squares in straight rows."
It is mandatory upon me as Grand Master to "see that the Constitution and Regulations of the Grand Lodge are strictly maintained, supported, and obeyed" (R.D. 38, 4th).
Accordingly, I call to your attention the following:
The scheme of a dub within a lodge is against Masonic policy
( G. M. Siems, 1949:27). When used as a device to circumvent Masonic
law applicable to lodges, it is an obvious subterfuge.
The playing of bingo, with its public connotation of gambling, is
against Masonic law and policy, regardless whether any consideration
is.paid directly for chances. (Compare, G. M. Harwell, 1954:77: G. M.
Meyer, 1950:27: G. M. Warren, 1936:14).
Trips without dispensation to another State, and in any case when
practices prohibited in California are there pursued, violate Masonic
law ( R.D. 156, 288, 735 and 739). Moreover, a lodge may not engage
in collateral financial undertaking, outside the orbit of authorized lodge
activities ( R.D. 127).
I hope a "word to the wise" shall be sufficient. I ask the help of the
brethren to see that our Masonic standards are maintained. If we ever
lower those standards we may destroy the nature of our institution and
Bnd birds roosting in our rafters and cobwebs on our doors.

under whose auspices or for what purpose it is conducted. ( R.D. 288,
739, 740).
The public brands and associates Bingo with gambling, regardless
of whether there is a monetary or other consideration paid directly to
play the game. As such, it has been banned in many States, including
California, when it violates our Penal Code. For example, there are
presently ·stron~ protestations being made against attempts in some
States to legalize Bingo. Moreover, the players of Bingo, when gambling,
undermine the solid virtues of industry, thrift and morality which a
Mason must uphold.

May a Lodge or members of a Lodge conduct and play Bingo games
under Lodge auspices?
The answer is "no."
Gambling long has been frowned upon in Masonry since it is im~
moral, especially when for the purpose of monetary gain, and no matter

If the playing of Bingo be soug'ht to be justiBed on the ground that
no monetary consideration is paid directly, then it at least verges upon
the illegal to such an extent that it falls within the purview of activities
which should not he pursued as a matter of policy. Grand Master Harwell held that a turkey shoot violated Masonic law. ( 1954:77) ). Meyer
1950:27: Gaylord 1932:71: Warren 1953:80.
Consequently, as a matter of policy and of Masonic law, and in
order that our craft may not trail in the dust its claim to moral leadership.
I have decided that Bingo should not lbe played by a Lodge or mem•bers
of a Lodge under Lodge auspices. We must maintain our standards.
No. 65
Where a !lo~called col1ateral Masonic organiiation selects a public
picnic ground to hold a picnic, the affair being held under the auspices
of the organization, although not limited to members of the Masonic
fraternity and their families, and an admission fee is charged by the
owner of the property, a drawing is held, no speciBc charge being made
for the tickets, and presents are awarded, some of which are donated
and some purchased from the funds of the organization, does this violate
Masonic law?
DECISION

The answer is "yes."
A consideration being paid, directly or indirectly, I am of the opinion
the procedure would constitute a lottery, and no Mason may participate
in it.
Such practices are illegal under Masonic law if they constitute a
lottery. Under our California Penal Code, when a consideration is
paid, direct or indirect, for the right of participating in a drawing, it is
a lottery. In cases where a price is paid directly for a chance to win a
prize, or where an admittance charge is made, and as an incident thereto,

72

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

the purchaser accepts the right to participate in a drawing, the transaction is illegal.
Where such an organization mentioned above holds a card party,
not necessarily in a Masonic Temple, at which those in attendance play
bridge, whist, or canasta, and a charge is made for attendance with
prizes being awarded to holders of the highest scores, such prizes having
been purchased from moneys collected as admission fees, does this
violate Masonic law?
The answer is "yes."
See the detailed answer above.
Where such an organization holds a dinner or luncheon, not neces•
sarily in the Masonic Temple, for which a dinner or luncheon charge is
made, or men hold a business meeting, or Masons in a Masonic Temple
confer a degree, following which those present engage in a social game
of !bridge, whist or canasta, with prizes donated or purcliased from the
receipts of the dinner or luncheon and awarded to those holding the
highest scores, does this violate Masonic law?
The answer is "yes~" in the event consideration is paid, direct or
indirect, such as through purchase of prizes from receipts. In the event
there is no such consideration, and no prohiobition of Masonic law,
then a question of Masonic policy and ethics are involved. For example, "Bingo Games" have been held improper for play in Masonic
Temples. (Ruling No. 64 of Grand Master Clausen). On the other
hand, but subject to the above, card games as such are not un-Masonic
although objections of the members should be considered. ( R.D. 794).
DEc1s10N No. 66
After charges have been filed and a trial has been had and a verdict
of acquittal rendered, may a transcript of the record of the trial for
transmittal to the Grand Secretary be dispensed with?
The answer is "no."
312 R.D. requires that a full record of the proceedings be kept. Sec.
324 provides that the record of the trial shall be signed by the Master
or Past Master presiding thereat. Sec. 327 states that in all cases,
whether appealed or not, the Master or Past Master presiding shall
cause the Secretary to prepare a transcript of the record of the trial,
to be transmitted to the Grand Secretary.
The correctness of the trial master's rulings is a matter for the submission to the Grievance Committee, and to which the record will be
referred for that purpose.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

73

No. 67
May a Temple Association add the word "Memorial" to its name?
There appears to be no restriction in Masonic Law which would prohibit the addition of the word "Memorial" to the name of a Temple
Association, although it is not dear that the mere addition of that word
would thereby create tax deductibility for contributions. This latter
appears to present the real purpose of the request for the name, but it is
felt. however, that study of the legal requirements will disclose that the
mere name will not confer tax exemption.
DEc1s10N

DECISION No. 68
See notation of withdrawal following Decision No. 72.

No. 69
Where the Visalia Masonic Building Association desires to pur..
chase a new carpet for the Temple, said Association being a separate
corporation, and Visalia Lodge being one of three stockholders, must
the Association submit this proposed expenditure to the Lodge or to
the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Fnancing. even though it exceeds $2,500.007
The answer is "no."
R.D. 78, 78.1 and 151 as amended in 1954, do not so require. The replacement of carpet could not be reasonably interpreted as an alteration
of the buildin9. Consequently, the Association does not have to submit
the expenditure to the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Finandng.
nor to the lodge as such, even though the cost exceeds $2,500.00.
The Visalia Lodge has ratified the Association's proposed action.
I assume therefore that the question posed concerns "Grand Lodge"
instead of "Lodge."
In my opinion, the replacement of carpet reasonably falls within
the term "maintenance" as used in Swanson's Will, the source of funds
for that purpose.
DEc1s10N

No. 70
See notation of withdrawal following Decision No. 72.
DEc1s10N

No. 71
See notation of withdrawal following Decision No. 72.
DECISION

No. 72
The following Decisions or part thereof which have been published
DECISION

74

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

in the advance report of the Grand Master's Message were withdrawn
by him when presenting the Message at the Annual Communication:
Last paragraph of Decision No. 42.
Last paragraph of Decision No. 43.
All of Decision No. 68.
All of Decision No. 70.

75

_.GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
EXHIBIT

"F"
April 19, 1955

Mr. Harry K. Widup
Inspector District No. 344
108 Davis Street
San Francisco 11, California
Dear Mr. Widup:

All of Decision No. 71.
All of Decision No. 72.

This will summarize the situation affecting Far West Lodge No. 673
and my decision in light of plans •proposed for restoring its charter.
On or about November 10, 1954, you officially reported to me an
irregular condition existing for some time within the lodge. A Club
had been organized within the lodge, directed hy the Junior Warden,
which bought and sold liquor for lodge social functions. Guests at these
functions bought tickets which were exchanged for drinks dispensed
by lodge members over a ~ar from the stock of liquor acquired by the
Club. The Junior Warden made periodic accounts to the Master, as
Junior Warden, along with separate reports of other activities as Junior
Warden. The account attached is an example, and reports, among other
things, on a lodge Fall Dinner Dance publicized in the lodge October
Bulletin. Apparently, though recently discovered by you, the practice
had persisted for some years. The matter came to light when requests
were made to use some of the liquor for an Officers and Coaches party.
These were obvious and long standing violations of elementary
Masonic Law dealing with liquor ( R.D. 156, 210, 467).
The Club was flagrant subterfuge, as was the separate report of the
Junior Warden, to circumvent the law. The scheme of a Club was subject to criticism in any event (G. M. Siems, 1949:27).
Moreover, the practice violated penal provisions of civil law ( Bus.
& Prof. Code, 23025-6, 23300-1, 2405).
Accordingly, since the violations were flagrant, long standing and
Widespread among the officers and some members, I reluctantly reached
the difficult decision that I should suspend the Master and arrest the
charter. I did so on November 18, 1954. (R.D. 34, 147).
Investigation then disclosed charges of misconduct and excessive
drinking during a fraternal out-of-town visitation by the lodge. Bills
for damage done at a motel were paid hy the Club and is referred to in
the attached report of the Junior Warden.
The facts indicate that the officers, present and past, who originated
and carried on the violations of Masonic and civil law are subject to the
most severe censure. Those implicated should be truly contrite. They
haThve brought down upon the lodge and the Craft a condition of shame.
e lodge and its members who were innocent must, unfortunately.
1

76

77

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

suffer and share acutely in the sorrow that its leaders went so far astray
from realities of Masonic standards. If those standards are not maintained then birds will roost in the rafters of our temples and cobwebs
will collect on the doors.
The Past Masters of the lodge met in March, 1955 and represented
to me that, if the charter were restored, an honest endeavor would be
made to avoid in the future "the several violations of the Masonic Code
which apparently had been permitted to flourish in Far West Lodge,
and which ultimately resulted in the arrest of its Charter." It was further
represented and the elective officers at the time of arrest concurred that
they would resign and not again seek or hold Masonic office without
consent of Grand Lodge.
The elective officers later stated their "regret that certain violations
of the Masonic Code were permitted during their respective term of
office" and pleaded for restoration of the Charter and resigned conditioned on that event. A slate of elective and appointive new officers,
designed to effect the necessary corrective action, was proposed by your
letter of April 3, 1955.
On the assumption that the suggested corrective action will be carried into effect, I restore the charter (R.D. 8, 20, 467). You and the
lodge are authorized and directed to convene the lodge to request of
me dispensation for an election to fill the vacancies in office created by
the resignations. Whereupon, after receiving such dispensation, to
convene the lodge again for the contemplated elections (R.D. 834, 181 ).
The contemplated appointments would be made then by the newly
elected master (R.D. 835).
Fraternally yours,
(Signed) HENRY C. CLAUSEN

EXPENDITURES
Refreshments for kitchen crew
Bloodbank dinner ················--·$ 2.25
10/18 Additional deficit
Mendocino trip.......................... 14.50
10/30 Promotion offall
dinner dance.............................. 804.73
10/30 Refund 4 dance tickets 12.00

10/14

$833.48

Cash assets as of Nov. 1. 1954....................•...........$ 183.26
Stock assets..........- ......................................$ 22.32
10/1
10/30 Left over from dinner dance
1% cases liquor......·-····-··-··········· ·······--·· 73.50
1.90
1 case mix.......••....•..............................•_.....

$ 97.72
DISBURSEMENTS
Sale of 1 bottle liquor....................$ 3.50
To Blood Bank dinner
2 bottles liquor............·-··············· 7 .00
.35
10/14 2 bottles mix..................................
10/22 • Sale of 1 ·b ottle Uquor.................... 3.50

10/9
10/14

$14.35

Grand Master
JUNIOR WARDEN'S MONTHLY REPORT
FAR WEST SOCIAL CLUB
OCTOBER. 1954
Cash Assets.-............................................. $ 58.49
10/1
3.50
Sale of 1 bottle liquor.•..............................
10/9
3.50
10/22 Sale of 1 bottle liquor............................... .
10/30 Sale of dinner dance tickets..................... . 585.00
10/30 Bar income. ................................................. 366.25
$1016.74

$ 833.48

$ 14.35

Stock assets as of Nov. 1, 1954................................ 83.27
Cash assets as of Nov. 1, 1954.............. -.................. 183.26
Total assets as of Nov. 1, 1954................................ $266.63
(Signed)

WM. H. HooK

Manager

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLU TIONS

ganization and no financial profit therefrom shall be permitted to
accrue to any individual member of such sponsoring body, order,
or organization.

Resolutions received at different times during the Communication are
listed here for convenience of reference.
The Grand Secretary read the following resolutions which were referred by the Grand Master to the Committees as noted.

AUTOM ATIC CONTIN UANCE OF DISPEN SATION
WHEREA S, newly chartered Lodges are completely closed down
from October 1st until their constitution, which, under recent amendment to the ordinances, may be as late as the middle of the following
January, and
.
WHERE AS, the interruption in activity comes just at a time when
regular meetings are needed to continue pending work and to assist in
maintaining financial soundness.
NOW, THEREF ORE, BE IT RESOLV ED that Section 114 of
the ORDINA NCES be amended by adding thereto the following:
"The granting of a charter automatically continues the dispensation in full force until the constitution of the Lodge."
Respectfully submitted,
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
P. M. of Lakewood Lodge No. 728
FLOYD 0. MASON

P. M. of Lakewood Lodge No. 728
FRED B. GRAY

W .M. of Lakewood Lodge No. 728
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

AMEND MENT SECTIO N 127
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of California:
Be it resolved that Section 127 of the Ordinances, as amended, be
amended by adding the following paragraph :
Provided, however, Master Masons may solicit, sponsor, insert,
place, or print advertising in such publications issued officially
by any body, order, or organization requiring Masonic affiliation
as a condition to membership, which publications shall not indicate therein or thereon the name, symbol, or emblem of any such
body, order, or organization, or that the publications are in fact
of Masonic or affiliated origin, and provided further that all net
proflts from any such solicitation or sponsoring shall be used for
charitable pu11loses only by such sponsoring body, order, or or-

79

MILTON E. BALLENGE E

P .M. Honolulu No. 409
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Publications.

75 YEAR BUTTO N

To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREA S, Ross Digest makes no provision for a 75 year button or
ritual for presentation of same and,
WHEREA S, Such an event of this kind is outstanding and unusu.a l in
the Life of a Mason, and,
WHEREA S, This is no doubt an oversight on the part of the Policy
and General Purposes Committee:
THEREF ORE BE IT RESOLV ED: That Section 658 "Buttons for
Veteran Master Masons" be amended to read as follows:
"A special 75 year Button be designed and engraved in keeping
with event, as a token of our esteem for years of service in our
Fraternity, provided such member has been a Master Mason in
good standing for seventy-five years or more."
WM. G. SEARCY
ALFRED OLSEN
W.M. Alcatraz No. 244
P.M. Alcatraz No. 244
HAROLD B. LINDBLAD

B.

c. SUTLIFF

S.W. Alcatraz No. 244
P.M. Alcatraz No. 244
Referred to C~ttee on Policy and General Purposes.

HAWAI IAN ADMIN ISTRAT IVE OFFICER

To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, The eight Masonic Lodges of the Hawaiian Islands are
Chartered by the Grand ·Lodge F. & A. M. of California, and
Whereas, the aforementioned Lodges are geopraphically located
on four separate Islands of the Hawaiian Group and are divided into
three lnspectorial Districts, and
Whereas, it is felt that this arrangement is unsatisfactory from an
administrative viewpoint and is detrimental to the progress and growth
of Masonry in the Hawaiian Islands.
Now, therefore, be it resolved: That the Grand Lodge F. & A. M.
of California create the Office of District Deputy Grand Master to
administer the affairs of the Grand Lodge to the aforementioned constituent Lodges. That the incumbent in this newly created office be
appointed by, and serve at the will and pleasure of the Most Worshipf ul
Grand Master.
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was, upon

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

motion duly made and seconded, unanimously adopted by Pearl Harbor
Lodge No. 598 F. & A. M. at its Stated Meeting on Monday, 13 June,
1955.
EARLE W. HuGHES
Loms S. CARRIER. P.M.
Worshipful Master
Secretary
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

Maui Lodge No. 472 F. & A. M.-On the Island of Maui
~auai Lodge No. 589 F. & A. M.-On the Island of Kauai
All operating under Charters from the Grand Lodge o.f California
and divided into two Districts, formerly three Districts.
WHEREA S: It is the opinion of the membership that this condition is
unsatisfactory and detrimental to the uniformity and progress of
Masonry in the Islands.
NOW THEREF ORE BE IT RESOLV ED: That the Grand Lodge
of California divide the Hawaiian Lodges into four Districts, one
for each of the Islands and an Inspector appointed for each Island.
BE IT FURTHE R RESOLV ED: That the Grand Lodge of California
create an Administrative Office for the Hawaiian Lodges, to administer the business transactions of the Grand Lodge for the four Districts. and the proposed .Inspectors to be under the direction of the
newly created Administrative Office.
BE IT FURTHE R RESOLV ED: That the Incumbent to the Administrative Office be a Past Master of an Island Lodge and a resident
of the Islands, to be appointed by the Most Worshipf ul Grand
Master. The incumbent to serve at the will and pleasure of the
Grand Master.
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing proposed resolution was.
upon motion duly made and seconded, unanimously approved by the
members present of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 F. & A. M. at its stated
meeting held on Wednesd ay, July 6, 1955.
Attest:
WILLARD A, GILBERT
J. HOLDEN
Worshipful Master
Secretary, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

80

NOMIN ATION OF COMMISSIONERS

RESOLV ED: That Section 299 be amended by insertion at the
end thereof the following:
"Nominations of said commissioners may be made by members
who are present at said meeting."
JoEL. SHELL
P .M. San Diego No. 35
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

SERVICE OF SUMMO NS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLV ED that Section 300, paragraph 8, of the Ordinances be
amended by deleting the words "transmitted to" and substituting
therefore the words "served upon" so that the paragraph will read
as follows:
"The Master also directed the Secretary to prepare, for his signature, a summons to the accused to appear at said time and place
before the Commissioners, and handed the charge to the Secretary
with instructions that a certified copy thereof. under the seal of the
Lodge, be made and served upon the acq1sed with said summons."
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
Past Master No. 344
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

HAWAilAN INSPEC TORIAL DISTRIC TS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHERE AS: Eight Masonic Lodges operating on four Islands of the
Hawaiian group.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 F. & A. M.
Lodge Le Progres Le L'Oceanie No. 371 F. & A. M.
'l
Honolulu Lodge No. 409 F. & A. M.
I
Schofield Lodge No. 443 F. & A. M.
Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598 F. & A. M.
-On the Island o·f Oahu
Kila~ ·Lodge No. 330 F. & A. M.-On the Island of Hawaii

TEMPLE ASSESSMENT

81

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREA S, at each Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge for
the past 8 years, beginning with 1947. the proposal to build a new
Masonic Memorial Temple has been before the Grand Lodge for its
tonsideration, and
WHEREA S. there have been in attendance at these 8 Communications
a total of 15,504 Masters. Wardens and Past Masters, representing
an average of 575 Lodges at each Session, and
WHEREA S, after full and free discussion of each and every proposal
these representatives of the Lodges have voted to construct such a
Memorial Temple, and
WHEREA S. these representatives of Lodges approved the ultimate
plan as now proposed, and

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WHEREAS. to finance the construction, in part, these representatives
of Lodges approved a campaign for voluntary contributions with
the objective of securing at least $10.00 per member, and
WHEREAS. such a campaign has been in progress since March 14,
1954, and has :produced in cash contributions and pledges $1,142,000.00, and
WHEREAS. many Lodges and their members have made a magnificent
contribution to this program, averaging more than $10.00 per member, and others have done very well. and
WHEREAS, some Lodges and their members have not effectively promoted the campaign for contributions, and
WHEREAS, the failure of these Lodges to reach $10.00 per member
creates an inequity among the Lodges and the members which results in an unequal bearing of the burden, and
WHEREAS, it is the essence of Freemasonry that the will of the majority shall always govern the entire Craft and the burdens and
responsibilities shall fall equally upon all, and
WHEREAS, it is now desirable that this fundamental of Freemasonry
be carried out in the Masonic Memorial Temple project,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the representatives
of the Lodges at this 106th Annual Communication levy an assessment on the Lodges of $10.00 for each Master Mason carried on
its rolls as of July 31, 1956, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that each Lodge have credited against
its total assessment the full amount of all its contributions in the
hands of the Grand Secretary prior to July 1, 1956, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the difference between the amount
of the total assessment and the amount of contributions received shall
be due and payable with the Annual Returns in five installments,
commencing with the Annual Returns of 1956, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such portion of each annual installment as is not contributed voluntarily by the members shall be
paid from the Lodge treasury.
JoHN C. BovEY, P.M. No. 166
OTTO H. FISCHER, P.M. No. 215
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, P.M. No. 370
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.M. No. 560
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.M. No. 481
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

ELECTION OF COMMISSIONE RS
RESOLVED That Section 120 be amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 120. All business shall be transacted at a stated meeting,
except collections or appropriations for charity, conferring of
degrees, ceremonial observances, electing a representative to
Grand Lodge, or, after dispensation from the Grand Master,
balloting for and conferring the degrees upon an applicant without reference to a committee, or receiving and acting upon the application of a rejected applicant within less than twelve months
after the date of his rejection."
(NOTE: This amendment authorizes the date of a special
meeting for the election of trial commissioners to be set for
the same date as a stated meeting of the Lodge.)
JoE L SHELL
P.M. San Diego No. 35
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

FUNERAL RITUAL AMENDMENT
Following changes jn Funeral Ritual are proposed:
1. The one officiating at the service should wear the Jewel and
Apron of that office; not the hat. Dignity is needed badly in our
service and this will add materially.
2. Have the Senior and Junior Deacons with crossed staffs over
the casket at all times during the service, except during the
prayers. He was made a Mason under these staffs and it is my
belief t,bat he should pass on that way.
3. Delete the words "by chilling blasts of death'' in the very last
paragraph of our ritual. To me this not only is depressing and
also chilling to the bereaved but also superfluous. I have eliminated it in the last few funerals I have put on.
Respectfully submitted
Fraternally yours,
CLARENCE G. HUSTLER, P.M.
Sunnyside Masonic Lodge No. 577 F. & A. M.
Ritual.
on
Committee
to
Referred
25 MILE RADIUS
Grand Lodge of California:
Worshipful
Most
the
To
At a regular Stated meeting of this Lodge held on June 2, 1955,
by unanimous vote of those present, the following resolution was proposed for the consideration at the 1955 Annual Communication:
Whereas the steady growth in California population has developed the suburban areas with new homes and communities and
Whereas the city lodges are confronted increasingly with the

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

necessity of requesting waiver of jurisdiction to accompany A,piplication for Degrees, and
.
.
.
Whereas Section 218 of the Ordinances 1s now inadequate with
reference to the ten ( 10) mile limit,
.
Now therefore be it resolved that the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge F. & A. M. of California be and is hereb~ petitioned to
consider an amendment of Section 218 of the Ordinances by extending the limit of residence from ten ( 10) miles to twenty-ftve
( 25) miles for applicants for degrees.
Respectfully submitted,

in the State, by failing to respond with a donation to many urgent appeals, have in effect cast a negative vote in opposition to the new proposed Temple for one or more reasons relating to the ·p roposed location,
the cost ·and the capacity.
FIRST: Regarding the site, it is claimed that it would take 500
taxicabs hauling the legal limit of 5 Brethren each to transport 2500
Brethren to the Nob Hill location, and 500 taxicabs to repeat the performance at our usual unpredictable adjournmen t hour, each day. Then,
too. if the ·p roposed site is NOT served with sufficient public transportation to cope with LARGE crowds, certainly this would be a hindrance
to its rentability by the public. Fully 90% or more of the Brethren
attending Grand Lodge from outside ·San Francisco usually stay at
hotels not within easy walking distance of Nob Hill, and many like to
walk to and from the meeting place because of having to sit so constantly
all day for five days, but would have to forego doing this if our meeting
place is on Nob Hill. Many Brethren attending Grand Lodge are elderly
or have had heart trouble. and surely no good physician would approve
their having to contend with climbing the steep streets around Nob Hill.
Now let us consider the objections to the proposed capacity and
cost: It is written that where there is no vision, the people perish. By
the year 1975. the population of California is expected to be 20 millions:
and if Free Masonry continues to grow proportiona tely. the capacity of
3100 proposed, would accommodate only three fourths of those desiring
and entitled to attend Grand Lodge. Consequent ly a 6 million dollar
investment, and meeting only a total of 100 days in 20 years, would
represent a cost of $60.000 per DAY, or $300,000 per YEAR for using
the Auditorium only 5 days each year. For more than a Century, we
have been a "Speculativ e" Society of Free and Accepted Masons: we
should not be asked to pay for so costly an edifice which we can use
only 5 days each year, while the public could use it 360 days per year
at a rental nowhere nearly commensura te with the cost of the building.
This would be comparable to adding "Ostentatio n" to our Three Principal Tenets. We should take heed of the Compass, which teaches us
never to suffer our passions and prejudices to become the master of
our judgment. Is it using good judgment for us to hastily build a
glamorous, luxurious auditorium by going into great debt, involving
tremendous interest-cost, when we need it FOR ONLY 5 DAYS EACH
YEAR? Many other organization s with larger attendance at their
Annual Communications do NOT own their auditorium. Let's stick to
the Committee's "ONE" motto-"Ma ke Haste Slowly"-an d let's
build without Interest.
The Brethren on the Grand Lodge Committee, headed by our very
able and popular Past Grand Master, Brother Ed. Siems, are of such
high calibre and such high standing in the Fraternity that they surely
do not want to be placed in the position of disregarding the objections
of two-thirds of our Brethren, by persisting in forcing their proposed

MORRIS E. STEWARD

Worshipful Master
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569 F. & A. M.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

SPECIAL ELECTIO N AT STATED MEETING

RESOLVE D: That Section 295 be amended by inserting at the end
thereof. the following:
"Such special meeting may be held on the same date as and
in conjunction with a stated meeting."
JoE L. SHELL
P.M. San Diego No. 35
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

REORGA NIZATIO N OF TEMPLE PROGRA M
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethr~n o.f Gra~d Lodge:

The following resolution is offered as a compromise. tn the interest of
harmony, with the fervent hope that it might please a much larg.er p~r­
centage of our Brethren. The author is somewhat of a, co-operative dissenter in as much as he has already given TWO days pay and ~ quart
carton full of pennies and nickels for the new California Masonic Memorial Temple.
The Trowel teaches us to spread the cement of Brotherly Love~d
Affection-t hat cement which unites us into one sacred band or soo~
of friends and brothers, among whom no contention should ever exist,
but that noble contention or rather emulation of who best can work and
best agree. If all the Brethren in California could ~~t an~ emb~ace
this philosophy as the governing factor in determ1mng their .actions
and attitudes in all matters pertaining to Free-mason ry. then this resolution obviously would not be necessary.
However, after two years' earnest and persistent effort on th~ part
of the Grand Lodge Committee, Inspectors, Masters, an~ con~1tu~t
Lodge Committeemen, less than one third of our Members in Cahforma
have made a contribution to the proposed new Temple as of June 3,
1955· and many of them have done so reluctantly or without enthusiasm.
This.being the case, we must assume that this two-thirds of our Brethren

85

86

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

project on the overwhelming majority of their Brethren against their
wills.
Therefore, I respectfully submit the following resolution:
WHEREAS, it has virtually been unanimously agreed that a new
adequate meeting place for the Annual Communications of Grand
Lodge, and also new quarters for the offices of Grand Lodge and
the Grand Master, have been urgently needed and very much
desired for many years now: and
WHEREAS, the members of our Grand Lodge Committee are
to be commended (instead of criticized) for their high appraisal
and evaluation of Free Masonry as represented by the excellent
site they chose for the Memorial and, the very beautiful edifice
proposed: and
WHEREAS, the present program has been insufficient despite
the very great effort which has been expended on it;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:
FIRST, that a suitable Memorial building on a portion of the site
presently owned by Grand Lodge on Nob Hill be constructed to
accommodate our Grand Lodge offices, and appropriately nice
quarters for the Grand Master; and with a Public Garage under
entire building.
SBCOND, that the balance of land on Nob Hill owned by Grand
Lodge be sold.
THIRD, that $9.00 be collected from each new applicant for Degrees; and that the $1.00 per capita assessment be continued for
the next ten ( 10) years, to accumulate a fund to build an adequate.
meeting place seating five thousand ( 5,000): said meeting place
to be built of reinforced concrete, but of unpretentious design and
arcliitecture, but air-conditioned, have comfortable seats, be conveniently located to ample public transportation and within easy
walking distance of the major downtown hotels, be on more nearly
level ground, and if possible be located in the vicinity of Market
street.
FOURTH, that the new Auditorium Building be planned so as
to have a public garage underneath entire building, and Lodge
Halls and/or offices built above the Auditorium, to provide sufficient rental revenue to cover, as near as can be determined, the
cost of maintenance and taxes.
FIFTH, that Grand Lodge Annual Communications continue to
meet in the Civic Auditorium in San Francisco or such other place
designated by Grand Lodge until new Auditorium is completed.
Fraternally yours,
HENRY E. LESTMANN, Past Master,
Palestine Lodge No. 351, F. & A. M.
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Memorial Temple.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

POSTPONEMENT OF TEMPLE CONSTRUCTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, another Resolution has been offered as a compromise to
have Grand Lodge authorize building Grand Lodge offices and Grand
Master's quarters on a portion of land presently owned on Nob Hill,
and to sell balance of that parcel of land, and select a different site for
the Auditorium.
Therefore, if said other resolution is NOT adopted by Grand Lodge
at its Oct. 1955 Annual Communication, then the following resolution is
respectfully offered as an alternative:
Now therefore be it resolved:
That the land presently owned on Nob Hill be resold for not less
than total gross cost of same, and proceeds placed in fund with
other moneys for a new Temple.
That $9.00 be collected from each new applicant for the Degrees:
and that the $1.00 per capita assessment be continued for the
next ten ( 10) years to accumulate a fund to build an adequate
meeting place, seating five thousand ( 5,000): said meeting place
to be built of reinforced concrete, but of unpretentious architecture and design, air-conditioned, to have comfortable seats,
be conveniently locate~ to ample public transportation, and
within easy walking distance of major downtown hotels, be on
more level ground, and if possible be located in the vicinity of
Market street.
That the new Temple be planned so as to hav~ a public garage
underneath the entire building, and enough Lodge Halls and/or
offices built above .the Auditorium to provide sufficient rental
revenue to cover, as near as can be determined, the cost of maintenance and taxes.
That the total cost of new Temple be approved by Grand Lodge
before any construction be started.
That the Grand Lodge Annual Communications continue to meet
in the Civic Auditorium in San Francisco or such other place
designated by Grand Lodge until new Auditorium is completed.
Respectfully and fraternally yours,
HENRY E. LESTMANN, Past Master,
Palestine Lodge No. 351, F. & A. M.
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Memorial Temple.

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BUILDING AND LOAN INVESTMENTS

such declared intent the Grand Lodge hereby formally transfers
from the General Funds of the Grand Lodge to the building fund
of the California Masonic Memorial Temple the sum of $254,877.50.
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.M. No. 560
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.M. No. 481
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, P.M. No. 370
Orro H. FISCHER, P.M. No. 215
JoHN C. BoVEY, P.M. No. 166
Referred to Committee on Finance.

RESOLVED: That Ross Digest be amended by inserting the
language quoted below as subparagraph E. under subsection 1. of Sec.
86. and as subparagraph ( e) under subsection 1. of Sec. 152.1 :
"Investment certificates issued by a building and loan association
or a savings and loan association organized and existing under
the laws of the State of California which is an insured institution
as defined by Title IV of the National Housing Ad, and shares
issued by any such association which issues no investment certifl..
cates and which is an insured institution as defined by said Title
IV, and shares issued by any federal savings and loan association."
Reason~ for suggested amendment:
Under our existing law as recently construed by our Grand Master,
neither shares nor certificates issued by state or federal building or
savings and loan associations are eligible for investment of Lodge funds,
or Grand Lodge funds.
This amendment would therefore eliminate the discrimination which
now exists against the securities of such state and federal associations.
All .federal savings and loan associations are insured institutions.
Since the amendment is limited to securities issued by insured insti•
tutions and to the types of securities which are insured, the suggested
amendment is conservative in its character.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
Past Master,
Meridian Lodge No. 667
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Investment and on Policy
and General Purposes.

SALE OF TEMPLE STOCK
WHEREAS, it has been the declared intention of the Grand Lodge to
sell its stock in the Masonic Temple Association of California and
apply the proceeds therefrom toward the construction of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, such intent being declared in
recommendation No. 3 of the report of the California Masonic Memorial Temple Committee, Page 181, 1954 Proceedings, Which
recommendation was adopted, and
WHEREAS, in conformity with the requirements of such recommendation all 33,985 shares of stock of the Masonic Temple Association of
California held by the Grand Lodge were sold at $7.50 per share
in August 1955 for which the Grand Lodge received and has on
deposit a total of $254,877.50,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that in accordance with

89

COMMUNIST MEMBERSHIP
RESOLVED that another question be added to the Candidate's application for Masonry, to-wit:
"Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist
Party? If so, in what capacity?"
HAROLD E. MOODY
Master No. 667
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REGALIA AT FUNERALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS: Past rulings have and are requiring participating officers
to wear white aprons without jewels when conducting funeral
services, and
WHEREAS: It is the opinion of a large majority of the Brethren that
the wearing of officers' aprons and jewels imparts dignity to a public
funeral, and
WHEREAS: A funeral is one of the few public appearances where
MASONRY should be properly presented by its members and
officers;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT PROPERLY RESOLVED: That LODI
Lodge No. 256, F. & A. M., requests that any and all rulings contrary to this resolution be rescinded:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That offiecrs participating in a
funeral service wear the proper officer's apron and jewel of that
office.
The above resolution was duly and regularly adopted by unanimous
vote of LODI Lodge No. 256, F. & A. M. at the regular stated meeting
held June 2, 1955.
ALVIN EHRHARDT
Master
ATTEST:
EARL H. JOHNSON
, Secretary
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

90

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RAILROAD EQUIPMENT TRUST ISSUES

tion 218 of the Ordinances of the Grand Lodge of California to read
as follows:
"Anything in these Ordinances to the contrary notwithstanding,
without any waiver of any sort being sought or obtained, an ap..
plication for the degrees of Masonry may be presented by any
person, otherwise qualified to receive the degrees, if such person
shall reside within 20 miles of the Lodge room of the Lodge to
which such application is addressed."
The officers and members of Oakland Lodge No. 188, F. & A. M.
are absolutely convinced that the so-called 10 mile rule should be
<:hanged to read 20 miles, in the above noted Section 218, to compensate
for the vast expansions which are taking place in our cities, and the
resultant tendencies of our populations to spread out farther and farther.
Res·pectfully submitted,
BURTON R. GrusWOLD, Master
SIDNEY F. SEA, P.M., Treasurer
Attest:
M. L. GRAVES, P.M .•
Secretary

RESOLVED: That the following be added to Sections 86-2A and
152.1-2a of the Ordinances:
"except that this listing requirement shall not include railroad equipment trust issues."
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, P.M. No. 370
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.M. No. 560
FRANK HARWELL, JR., P.M. No. 528
RALPH H. HEAD, P.M. No. 352
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

HAWAIIAN INSPECTORS ENDORSEMENT
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the regular stated meeting of this Lodge held on the above written date, there were two Resolutions read which had been received
from Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598 F. & A. M. of Honolulu and Hawaiian
Lodge No. 21 F. & A. M. of Honolulu. These Resolutions appertained
to certain proposed C'hanges the Ritual and Administrative affairs of these
Island Lodges and after some discussion concerning the effect these
resolutions would have on the future interests of Masonry in Hawaii,
it was felt that Resolution as presented by Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
thereby giving each Island its own Inspector with an Administrative
Officer or Deputy Grand Lecturer would be to the best interest of all
Masonry in Hawaii. It was regularly moved, seconded and unanimously
carried that Kilauea Lodge No. 330 F. & A. M. go on record as favoring
such a resolution and that the Secretary was directed to advise the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of 'California of this action as taken
at said stated meeting.
Re;pectfully submitted,
HERMAN W. LuDLOPP, P.M.,
Secretary
Attested:
JAY w. CONQUEST.
Worshipful Master
Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes

20 MILE RADIUS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Oakland Lodge No. 188, F. & A. M. at its stated meeting of September 7, 1955, unanimously passed a resolution requesting the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of California to amend the wording of Sec-

91

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

ALTERNATE COMMISSIONE RS
WHEREA:S one or more Commissioners may be unable to act as
such until the conclusion of a .prolonged trial and,
WHEREAS a mistrial, due to a reduced number of Commissioners
would work a hardship upon all the brethren concerned, now therefore
be it
RESOLVED, that a new section be added to the Ross Digest to
read as follows:
Alternate Commissioners.
Section 299 (a). Whenever it shall appear likely, that the
trial cannot be concluded in one day, the Lodge may in the same
manner and at the same time elect two Alternate Commissioners,
who shall attend throughout the trial as members of the Commission, except that they shall not be entitled to vote, unless called to
act in lieu of a Commissioner, as hereinafter provided. The Alter-·
nate Commissioner. who shall have received the larger number of
votes. shall be called first to replace a Commissioner who may become disqualified to act as such during the trial. In the event that
both Alternates shall have received the same number of votes.
the Master shall decide who will be called first. An Alternate

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commissioner may not replace a disqualified Commissioner, unless he shall have been present at all times during the trial.
FRED A. LoFRENDAHL
Master
WARNER J. NoRDLANDER
Senior Warden
JULIUS L. NELSON
Junior Warden
Attest:
CLOVIS J. ROBERT
Secretary
Referred to Committees on Grievances and on Policy and General
Purposes.

Prior to the meeting the Master may appoint a nominating committee, which committee shall present the names of fourteen qualified
members for election as commissioners and these shall be nominated at
said meeting prior to the vote being taken, and after these fourteen
members shall have been nominated any further nominations may be
made by any member from the floor of the lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross,
Past Master, Reading Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committee on Grievances.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 332

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas the present situation in the Penal System is such that persons convicted of a felony are frequently not imprisoned in pursuance
thereof because of a lack of facilities to care for them, be it therefore
RESOLVED: that Section 332 of the Ordinances of Grand
Lodge be amended by striking out the words
"and be im.prisoned in .pursuance thereof."
WM. T. LISENBY, JR.
P.M., University No. 394
CLARENCE L. WILSON
W.M., University No. 394
CHARLES 0. CROUSE
S. W .. University No. 394
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Pul'J)Oses.

AMENDMENT SECTION 299

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Although the undersigned moved in Grand Lodge last year that
Section 974 Ross Digest be repealed and that nominations for trial
com.missioners for a Masonic trial should not be permitted, that having
been approved policy of Grand Lodge for many years to prevent any
packing of a trial com.mission, it has now been demonstrated that the
present method of electing commissioners without nominations is a
long and tiresome procedure, especially in the larger lodges, and it appears that some method of nomination which would prevent any packing
of the commi·ssion by those favorable or unfavorable to the charge to
be tried should be found,
BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 299 of the Ordinances of Grand
Lodge be amended by adding at the end of the present section the
following sentence:

93

RESTORATION BY GRAND LODGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, under sections 344 and 345 of Ross Digest it is possible for a Mason who has been suspended or expelled for unmasonic
conduct to be restored to all the rights and .privileges of Masonry upon
a showing of good cause therefor: and
WHEREAS, a Mason who has been suspended for nonpayment of
dues for more than two years should be equally entitled to apply to
this Grand Lodge for restoration: and
WHEREAS, it appears doubtful if a Mason who has been suspended for nonpayment of dues is entitled to proceed under the cited
sections 344 and 345;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that sections 344
and 345 of Ross Digest be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 344. T.he Grand Lodge may, at any Annual Communication, if good cause therefor be shown and proof be given of the
notice hereinafter prescribed, restore to the rights and privileges
of Masonry, any Mason who for cause, including nonpayment
of dues, has been suspended or expelled within its jurisdiction,
but such restoration shall not restore him to membership in the
Lodge by which he was suspended or expelled.
Sec. 345. Whenever any Mason, suspended for nonpayment of
dues or for unmasonic conduct, desires to petition the Grand
Lodge for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry,
he shall first make application for such restoration to the Lodge
by which he was suspended, if it still be in existence. If his application be there refused, it may then be made to the Grand
Lodge, provided that notice, in writing, be given to the Lodge
of such intended application, not less than forty days preceding
the Annual Communication.
WM. NANKERVIS, JR.
P.M., Oak Grove ·Lodge No. 215
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Pur.poses.

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1956 COMMUNICAT ION
WHEREAS the Civic Auditorium will not be available during the
second week of October, 1956,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Section 31 of Ross
Digest be amended by inserting at the end thereof the followin~:
"provided further that the 107th Annual Communication
shall be held in the City of San Francisco commencing on
the third Monday in September at 10 o'clock A.M."
LLOYD E. WILSON, P.M.
Ingleside Lodge No. 630
Ref erred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

UNETHICAL PROMOTION
The following resolution included in the report of the Committee on
Publications was presented with the concurrence of the Committees on
Policy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence.
RESOLVED: That a new section numbered 126.1 be added to the
Ordinances of Grand Lodge and inserted in Ross Digest, reading as
follows:
"Section 126.1. No Lodge or body, or organization requiring
Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership, or member
thereof shall, directly or indirectly, engage in any business, project, venture, promotion, scheme or plan which is unethical, fraudulent, misleading or illegal. Any violation of this section shall be
deemed un-Masonic conduct."
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

MEMORIAL TEMPLE CONTRIBUTIO NS
FROM REFRESHMENT FUND
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED: that it is proper for any lodge to make contributions
to the California Masonic Memorial Fund from moneys allocated to
its fund for refreshments and fraternal intercourse.
Respectfully submitted,
KENNETH c. CARMICHAEL,
W.M., Service Lodge No. 594
FRED B. GRAY,
W.M., Lakewood Lodge No. 728
FRANK R. SPENCER,
W.M., All States Lodge No. 593
HOWARD C. GOLDBLATT,
W.M., Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674
The Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence
each reported their concurrence with the above resolution.
Adopted . .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

95

SUBVERSIVE MEMBERSHIP
RESOLVED: That another question be added to the Candidate's application for Masonry, to-wit:
"Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization
termed subversive by the Attorney General of the United States?"
JosEPH E. STEPHENS
Senior Warden
Mizpah Lodge No. 378
Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

FORFEITURE OF CONTRIBUTIO NS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS all Applicants for the Degrees of Masonry of their
own freewill, voluntarily make contributions to the Masonic Homes of
California, the George Washington Memorial Temple Fund and the
California Masonic Memorial Temple Fund, and
WHEREAS after a period of £ve years, and contributions having
been used for the purposes for which they were contributed,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the second paragraph of
Section 241 be amended to read as follows:
If a candidate does not present himself properly qualified for the
Second and Third Degrees within a period of five years from the
date of his initiation as an Entered Apprentice, the Master shall
direct the Secretary to forward to such candidate, by registered
mail to his last known address, a notice advising him ,t hat unless
he shall pres~nt himself for advancement on or before a specified
date (at least sixty days in advance) his fees for the unconf erred
degrees, TOGETHER W ,I TH ALL CONTRIBUTION S REQUIRED AS A CONDITION OF PRESENTING THE
ORIGINAL APPLICATION FOR DEGREES, will be declared forfeited.
Respectfully submitted,
F. T. NAGLE,
P.M. and Secretary, No. 537
ARTHUR BEARD,
P.M. and Treasurer, No. 537
EVERETT L. STRINGER,
S.W.• No. 537
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

INTERPRETAT ION OF APPLICATION QUESTION 13
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS. so-called Masonic Clubs and Social Organizations,
the prerequisite of which requires membership in a Blue Lodge, were

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ruled by Grand Master Morrison in 1944 under the prohibitions of
question 13 in the application for the Degrees of Masonry, as not being
affected by the 6 months rule-which ruling was changed in 1953 to
12 months plus the additional requirement of proficiency in the Candidates Lecture of the 3rd Degree, and
WHEREAS, said so-called Masonic Clubs do definitely tend to
create increased Blue Lodge activities, interest and attendance, and
WHEREAS, the existence of and interest in such Clubs also helps
to awaken a desire in many prospective applicants to become interested
in Masonry by reason of their fellow workers' Blue Lodge activities in
which they as co-workers are not invited to ·participate, and
WHEREAS, it is .t he opinion of the undersigned and many others
with whom this has been discussed, that it was not the intention of the
sponsors of the 1953 Resolution to include such Clubs in the prohibitions,
but merely to increase the time to 12 months and require the new member to make his proficiency in the 3rd degree before being allowed to
take any of the so-called higher degrees of Masonry, or to join any affiliate groups such as the Eastern Star, Sciots, etc.,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, question 13 of the application
not apply to so-called Masonic Clubs, etc.: that they are strictly Blue
Lodge activities wherein there are not formal initiations and have no
connections with the so-called higher orders of Masonry and/ or affiliate
groups.
Respectfully submitted,

F. T. NAGLE
P.M. and Secretary, Lodge No. 537
ARTHUR BEARD

P.M. and Treasurer, Lodge No. 537
EVERETT L. STRINGER
Senior Warden, Lodge No. 537
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

DE MOLAY SPONSORSHIP
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, The Order of DeMolay for boys is an organization
of more than 200,000 active young men between the ages of 14 and 21:
and
WHEREAS, There are more than 1,700 Chapters in the United
States and foreign countries: and
WHEREAS, Its senior members exceed more than one and a half
million, many of whom are now Master Masons: and
WHEREAS, This organization is dedicated essentially to building
good charader and constructive leaders, what better group can be helped
than those clean thinking young men dedicated to Love of God, Love
of home and Love of country: and
WHERBAS, Our age has been built upon material things, we are

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

97

proud of our enormous wealth, giant plants of industry and networks
?f transportation, yet insufficient progress has been made toward helping our young men on whom our foture civilization will depend: and
WHEREAS, This organization is sponsored by Masonic lodges in
many states throughout our country: and
WHERE~S. J?uring ~he past years the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Caltforma has interested itself in the Order of DeMolay
through the appointment of a committee on DeMolay whose .purpose is
to sprea? among the fraternity knowledge as to the meaning, aims and
accomplishments of the Order of DeMolay: and
WHEREAS, Each year this DeMolay Committee has reported well
and favorably on the progress of the Order of DeMolay within the
State of California: and
WHER:EAS, 1:he Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California is
always anxious to live th~ joy of building a foundation, made of today's
young men for tomorrow s success: therefore, be it
R~SOL'.:7ED, Th~t this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge refer to a
committee this resolution with the suggestion that investigation be made
regarding. the ?o~sibility of improving the present status of DeMolay
sponsorship within the State of California and under the jurisdiction
of this Grand Lodge.
CARL 0. OLSEN

Past Master, Lodge No. 497
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

AMENDMENT OF MONITOR
WHEREAS, the Monitor and Officers, Manual in the ceremony of
re~eption of Grand Lodge Officers does not specify who are entitled to
pnvate Grand Honors, and some confusion has arisen from this omission,
RESOLVED, that the Monitor and Officers' Manual, page 60
thei;~of, be amended to add an instruction as follows:
Note: The private Grand Honors are to be given only to the
Grand Master, the Inspector of the District on official visits, or
t~ a ~rand Lodge Officer making a visitation to a Lodge by
direction of and as representative of the Grand Master."
LYNN

c. DUGGAN,

.
Master, Thousand Oaks Lodge, No. 478
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

With the permission of the Grand Master, the original resolution
presented by Past Grand Master John R. Moore, relative to investment
certi.6cates in Federal Savings and Loan Associations, was withdrawn
in o.rder to avoid confusion with the similar resolution covering the same
sub1ect as subsequently presented by Past Grand Master Moore.
At 12:40 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 P.M.

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNO ON SESSION -Monday, October 24, 1955

GRAND TRE.ASURER 's REPORT

At 2:00 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.

We rec~mmend that this report, that of the Investment Committee,
the Masonic Temple Association of California and the Auditor's Report be jointly referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON SEGREGA TION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Segregation , to which has been referred the
annual message of the Grand Master, reports of the Grand Treasurer,
Grand Secretary and the Grand Lecturer and various Committees,
submits the following report:
We recommend that portions of the Grand Master's message be
referred to the Committees indicated below:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. The recommendation that the name of this Grand Lodge be
<:'hanged to "The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California and Territory of
Hawaii." (Page 5. Para. 5.)
2. The recommendation to excuse the Assistant Grand Lecturers
from compulsory attendance at sessions of Grand Lodge. ( Page
6, Para. 5.)
To the Committee on Jurisprudence, to the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and to the Committee on Finance:
The recommendation that the Grand Lodge create a standing Committee on Public Schools to conduct a year round program along the
lines of the Grand Master's proclamation of April 25, 1955. (Page
16, Para. 7.)
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Decisions numbered 1a to 72.
The Grand Master's message bespeaks the love of the Fraternity
whie'h has marked his every act. The old values have been burnished
brighter by his having devoted his time and substance. The courage,
forthrightne ss and high purpose of his character are mirrored in the
accomplishments which here are shown. May his inftuence continue to
be felt throughout this Jurisdiction and in his other capacities throughout the Masonic World.
GRAND SECRETARY' S REPORT

1. We recommend that the portion of the Grand Secretary's Report
relative to Lodges under Dispensatio n be referred to the Committee on Finance.
2. We recommend that the portion of the Grand Secretary's Report
relative to change of meeting place be referred to the Committee
on By-Laws.

99

GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT

We recommend that this report be referred to the Committee on
Finance.
0

CoMMITTEl'! REPORTS

We recommend reference of Committee reports as follows:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. Report of the Committee on Masonic Information.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Committee on Finance:
1. Report of History Committee.
To the Committee on Finance:
1. Report of Directors of Masonic Club House of Berkeley.
2. Report of Directors of Masonic Club House at U.C.LA.
3. Report of Committee on DeMolay.
4. Report of Committee on Columbia Temple.
5. Report of Committee on Sojourners.
RespectfulJy submitted,
•

DoN G. CAMPBELL
KENT D. SEYMOUR
SAU YEE CHANG

Adopted. (The Deputy Grand Master presiding.)

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

101

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The following distinguished guests were introduced, received with
Grand Honors, and after being greeted at the altar by the Grand Master,
were escorted to seats in the East.
M.".W.".Louis A •. Legett, Grand Master of Masons in Louisiana
M.·.w.·.Ernest Bolliger, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon
M. · .W. · .RonaldW. Meier, Grand Master of Masons in Washington
M. •. W. ·.Charles A. Mantz, Grand Master of Masons in Colorado
M.·.w.·.L. G. lmmonen, Grand Master of Masons in Nevada
M.·.w.·.c1aude M. Gordon, Grand Master of Masons in Idaho
M. ·. W. ·.Carey B. Wilson, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona
M.".W.".Santos Cota, Grand Master of Masons in Baja California
The distinguished guests listed below were received with the Public
Grand Honors and conducted to seats in the East.
M.".W.".Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Oregon
M.".W.".Silas E. Ross, P.G.M., Nevada
M:.W:.Hugh M. Wilson, P.G.M., Nevada
M.".W.".Will H. Taylor, P.G.M., Philippines
M.".W.".Clifford C. Bennett, P.G.M., Philippines
R:.W:.Ralph T. Moore, Deputy Grand Master, Oregon
W. ·.Laurence E. Eaton, Grand Marshal, Massachusetts
W. ·.George B. Clark, Grand Representative of the Grand Lodge
of Colorado near the Grand Lodge of California
W. ·.William B. Pettus, Past District Grand Warden for China,
Massachusetts Constitution
The Grand Master expressed the regret of ·this Grand Lodge that
Most Worshipful Whitfield W. Johnson, Grand Master of Massachusetts, had been taken suddenly ill and had been hospitalized. This
explained his absence from the group of distinguished guests who were
received. The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to express to
Brother Johnson the sincere wishes of this Grand Lodge for a rapid
recovery and to keep the representatives present informed of Brother
Johnson's progress.
At various times during the Communication the following distinguished guests addressed the brethren at the invitation of the Grand
Master. Each of the addresses was enthusiastically received. In each
instance the warmth of the fraternal greetings extended was sincerely
appreciated.
M.".W.".Louis A. Legett, Grand Master of Masons in Louisiana
M. · .W. ·.Ronald W. Meier, Grand Master of Masons in Washington
M.".W.".Charles A. Mantz, Grand Master of Masons in Colorado
M.·.w.·.Santos Cota, Grand Master of Masons in Baja California
M.".W.".Silas E. Ross, P.G.M., Nevada
W. ·.Laurence E. Eaton, Grand Marshal, Massachusetts

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
For Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1955
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Grand Treasurer, succeeded to this office only because of the
seriousness of the illness of our beloved P.G.M. Francis V. Keesling.
Our fond hopes for his speedy and complete recovery have not been
realized. It is my information that members of his immediate family
suggested that his best interest would be served by relieving him of the
ttsponsibility of the office.
Immediately following the election on October 15, 1954, your Grand
Treasurer consulted with the Assistant Grand Treasurer, Brother Paul
Pflueger and the Grand Secretary, Lloyd E. Wilson, in order to become
conversant with the affairs of the office. The fact that Brother Paul
Pflueger had actually functioned as Acting Grand Treasurer for the
previous two years simplified the problem considerably.

As of the first of the fiscal year Brother Walter A. Parker, who had
served ten years as auditor, found it desirable to retire from the public
accounting field and voluntarily relinquished the auditing of all of our
accounts. Afte,r careful investigation we retained the firm of Skinner &
Hammond, Certified Public Accountants, of which Brother James E.
Hammond, P.M. of Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568, is a partner. Brother
Hammond has been in active charge and supervision of the auditing of
all of our funds and accounts for the current fiscal year.
The printed reports of the auditors containing detailed financial
statements of Grand Lodge F. & A. M., the Masonic Homes of California, including the permanent Endowment Fund, and the California
Masonic Memorial Temple, are available to all our Lodges. Also,
included in these reports are complete lists of all securities owned. These
securities are all held in safekeeping by the Trust Department of the
Anglo California National Bank at its main office in San Francisco.
Heretofore the Grand Treasurer in his annual report also reported
on the activities of the Investment Committee since the Grand Treasurer
from its inception has been the Chairman of that Committee. No one
has or could question this policy since, by legislation, all funds and
securities of the Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes, the Endowment
Fund, Temple Funds and other special funds are placed in the custody
of the Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge, to be held by him as such

102

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

and to be by him accounted for and disbursed pursuant to the provisions
of the constitution and ordinances of the Grand Lodge.
Even with such strong precedent, tradition and legislation your
Grand Treasurer, after consultation with the Grand Master and others,
felt that the Grand Lodge could best be served at the present time by
recommending to the Investment Committee that we break precedent
in this instance and have Brother Paul A. Pflueger, Assistant Grand
Treasurer, continue acting as Chairman of the Investment Committee,
the position he had held all during the current illness of Grand Treasurer,
Francis V. Keesling.
Brother Pflueger has been on the Investment Committee since its
inception. He did much of the necessary research and planning in establishing our present investment policy under the modified prudent man
rule. He is eminently qualified for he has celebrated over 50 active years
of success in the field of finance. Brethren, we are indeed fortunate to
have such a capable and experienced person to head this important
committee. These extenuating circumstances in the opinion of the Investment Committee justified breaking tradition in this instance and their
concurrence in your Grand Treasurer's recommendation was unanimous.
A separate report for the Investment Committee will be presented by
our Assistant Grand Treasurer, Brother Paul A. Pflueger at a later date.
Following is a summary of the income and capital receipts and the
expense disbursements of Grand Lodge F. & A. M., the Masonic Homes
of California, including the Permanent and Other Endowment Funds,
and the California Masonic Memorial Temple for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1955:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

103

INCOME RECEIPTS:
GRAND LODGE:
Per Capita, contributions and fees ......$ 300, 167.13
Interest, dividends, and
miscellaneous ·-····-·--··-·-·····-···-····-·····-

29,590.46

$ 329,757.59
MASONIC HOMES - GENERAL FUND:
Grand Lodge per Capita,
and contributions ·····················-·····--··-$ 350,878.50
Payments through Lodges for Homes... .
37,844.03
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous ... .
59,683.60
448,406.13

MASONIC HOMES PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous

204,263.84

MASONIC HOMES OTHER ENDOWMENT FUNDS:
Contributions ······-·············-·····-···-.···~····-$
Interest and dividends..............................

6,365.25
17,019.63
23,384.88

MEMORIAL TEMPLE:
Interest -·····-··················-······-····-···········-$

11,753.64

Property operations ··················-·····-·····

5,033.44

16,787.08

TOTAL INCOME (Exclusive of
Capital Gains) ··-·················--·······

$1,022,599.52

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CAPITAL RECEIPTS. INCLUDING CAPITAL GAINS:
GRAND LODGE:
Gain on sale of securities....................

$

22,717.00

MASONIC HOMES -GENERAL FUND:
Gain on sale of securities....................$

90,554.93

Bequests {Exclusive of Endowment
Funds) and contributions....................

388,509.78

Assignments by residents of Home....

192,836.63

Miscellaneous ......................................

9,925.55

648,805.81

9,951.25

MASONIC HOMESPERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND:
Bequests and contributions......................$ 478,766.43
169,442.30
648,208.73
MASONIC HOMES OTHER ENDOWMENT FUNDS:
Gain on securities sold..........................

$ 303,796.77

MASONIC HOMES - GENERAL FUND
Operating of Homes and
outside relief ....................................$ 587,634.16
Administrative and general expense....
61,171.65
MASONIC HOMES - ENDOWMENT FUNDS:
Scholarships -·-··--·····--····----·················-·$
8,474.50
Miscellaneous ..........................................
1,476.75

681,826.89

Gain on securities sold..............................

EXPENSE DISBURSEMENT S:
GRAND LODGE:
Operating expense..............................

105

31,254.95

MEMORIAL TEMPLE:

MEMORIAL TEMPLE:
Miscellaneous expenses ......................... .

1,769.45

NET OPERATING EXPENSES

$ 964,323.28

EXPENSES CHARGED TO RESERVES FOR
SPECIAL PURPOSES:
MASONIC HOMES:
Replacements to Home....................$ 23,172.89
Entertainment expense....................
14,821.83
Funeral expenses ............................
5,562.86
Paid to residents..............................
8,750.82
Miscellaneous ·····················-···········
6,945.55
Total Charged to Reserves
for Special Purposes................

59,253.95

TOTAL EXPENSE DISBURSEMENT S

$1,023,577.23

293,160.00

NET INCREASE IN CAPITAL DURING YEAR

$2.111,211.43

Contributions ........................................

435,021.57

TOTAL INCOME
AND CAPITAL RECEIPTS ....

$3.134,788.66

The foregoing net increase in Capital during the fiscal year ended
July 31. 1955, is accounted for as follows:
Increase in cash on deposit in banks....$1,518,366.99
Increase in securities owned.................. 391,541.42
Increase in buildings and equipment,
Decoto and Covina•........•.·-············· 107,883.13
Payment in full of mortgage on California Masonic Memorial Temple site 103.500.00
Decreases in miscellaneous assets, net {10,080.11)

Grand Lodge per capita
and contributions ..............................

TOTAL INCREASE IN CAPITAL, AS ABOVE

$2,111,211.43

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The foregoing exhibit is intended to show the importance of the
business of Grand Lodge and to emphasize that substantial sums are
involved in a single year's transactions.

REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE CALIFORNIA
MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

It is hoped this brief summary will stimulate your real interest and
encourage each officer present to study the audit reports on Grand
Lodge F. & A. M. of ~alifornia, the Masonic Homes of California, including the Permanent and Other Endowment Funds, and the California
Masonic Memorial Temple. It is recommended that some time be set
aside at an early stated meeting of your lodge to review them. I am
confident that most every lodge has within its membership a certified
public accountant, or some other brother qualified in accounting and the
reading of financial statements who would gladly review these reports
so that the brethren of the constituent lodges would have a better understanding of the financial relationship between Grand Lodge and its
affiliated organizations and their own lodge.
In concluding this my first report as Grand Treasurer, my thanks to
the Grand Secretary and his entire staff for their wholehearted cooperation. To Brother Paul Pffueger, the Assistant Grand Treasurer, my appreciation for his faithful and efficient service with respect to Grand
Lodge investments and to Brother James E. Hammond of the firm of
Skinner & Hammond, for their meticulous and cooperative attention in
connection with the audit service.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS,

Grand Treasurer
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

107

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Under authority heretofore granted by this Grand Lodge, the California Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation was incorporated on
January 6, 1954. The by-laws of that corporation provide for eleven
trustees, eight of whom shall be appointed by the Grand Master and
the three others to consist of the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior
and Junior Grand Wardens who shall be ex-officio trustees.
The corporation has held a number of meetings since its incorporation. The Grand Master, who has acted as legal advisor to the corporation, has drawn and/or approved all technical documents and resolutions presented for action by the Board of Trustees.
Under prior authority granted by this Grand Lodge, title to the
property located on California Street between Jones and Taylor Streets,
in San Francisco, California, owned by the corporation, has now been
transferred into the name of the corporation, and on October 5, 1955
properly executed documents covering financing of the proposed California Masonic Memorial Temple were signed and recorded. Th.is offi ..
cially cleared the way for the California Masonic Memorial Temple
Committee to enter into additional contracts, clearing the property, preparatory to actual construction of the proposed California Masonic
Memorial Temple.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS
President, Board of Trustees

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California, F. 6 A. M.
In presenting this the eighth annual report of your Special Committee on California Masonic Memorial Temple, we do so with a feeling of culmination in anticipation of action. Through the cooperation
of our Masonic leadership throughout the jurisdiction, this Grand Lodge
will on Wednesday, October 26, 1955, break ground ofBcially starting
construction of that which was once but a dream, the California
Masonic Memorial Temple-the first official Home ever owned in its
entirety by this Grand Lodge.
At the risk of repetition, it is suggested that because so many brethren attending this Grand Lodge Session are here for the first time
(estimated to be about 40% of total attendance) that all reports of this
Special Committee and all action by Grand Lodge heretofore taken in
connection with the California Masonic Memorial Building project be
incorporated by reference and be made a part of this 1955 Committee
Report. To assist any of those brethren here who may be interested in
reviewing these prior reports, copies of the printed proceedings for the
years 1948 through 1954 are available at the California Masonic Memorial Temple exhibit located in the hall of this building, or in the office
of the Grand Lodge at 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco.
15, 1954
Communication)
Annual
last
of
(Close
PROGRESS SINCE OCTOBER

PLANNING

The general working plans have been completed. The arChitect,
Brother Albert F. Roller, a member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166, and
his staff, in cooperation with your Committee, have devoted many hours
of thought and time to every detail with particular emphasis on utility,
functional quality, appearance, dignity, sculpture, the memorial fea ..
tures, and the comfort of those attending our annual sessions, with the
hope, of course, that the combined efforts will be accepted with favor
by the general membership of California Masons and all Masons and
friends who visit and use the Temple.
Before final decisions were made we tried to answer the question,
·"Is this in keeping with the mandate of Grand Lodge?" The many sug ..
gestions and recommendations made by the brethren received full Committee consideration. In this connection, we are grateful to Past Grand
Master Leon 0. W·hitsell, Chairman of the Masonic History Committee,
and its members for their valuable suggestions on the historical matter
to be portrayed in the endomosaic window over the entrance. Many

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

109

have been incorporated in whole or in part to the end that it can be
trnly said, "This is our Temple built by the Masons of California."
A trnly practical interpretation of what is meant by "Order in Archi..
tecture." Yes, brethren, the architect began to design, and the plans
which he laid down were improved by time, study, experience and sug ..
gestions which we believe will result in a Memorial Temple productive
of the admiration of every age. Your Committee acknowledges with
thanks the many constructive suggestions offered by the brethren from
every part of this grand jurisdiction.
FUND RAISING EFFORT

In October 1953, the Grand Lodge adopted the following general
policy recommendations affecting the financing and construction of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple:
(a) The program of financing should contemplate long-term bor..
rowing;
( b) The goal for each constituent lodge was set at a minimum average contribution of not less than $10.00 per member;
( c) The $1.00 annual per capita theretofore adopted be made a
constitutional provision of our regulations;
( d) Section 100 ( b) of the Constitution was amended to provide
for a $9.00 contribution to the California Masonic Memorial
Temple fund by each applicant for the degrees of masonry:
( e) Your committee was authorized to have working plans completed and bids taken by not less than five contractors when
satisfactory plans for financing were complete.
The above' recommendations, although ,briefed here, may be found
on pages 139-141 in the 1953 proceedings.
Immediately following the close of the 1953 annual communication
your Committee set in motion the execution of the policies theretofore
adopted. Actually, because of the time involved in planning, preparing
and organizing a workable program, the fund raising effort was launched
about March 15, 1954. During the first seven months, or up to Grand
Lodge (Octo'b er 9, 1954), there had :been subscribed through voluntary
contributions $866,065.27 by 49,431 members of California lodges.
At the 1954 annual commmunication your Committee recommended
and Grand Lodge adopted as policy, that the fund raising effort on a
voluntary basis ·be extended to July 31, 1955, reaffirming the minimum
average of $10.00 per member. The Committee was also authorized to
negotiate the sale of the Masonic Temple stock owned by the Grand
Lodge in the Temple at 25 Van Ness Avenue.
Following the 1954 annual communication most of the constituent
lodges continued the fund raising effort in "high gear." Many developed new and original ideas to suit the local situation. Assistance
offered ·b y your Committee was used to advantage by many lodges. The

111

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

effort has been productive of splendid results. As of noon, October 24, '
1955, an additional $356,991.64 was subscribed, making a grand total
through voluntary contributions since the start of this program, March
15, 1954, of $1,223,056.91. This amount ·b as been subscribed by 72,985
Masons representing 648 lodges for an average of $16.75 per individual
subscription. Of the grand total subscribed all but $177,391.90 has been
paid in cash. Many of the brethren have anticipated their pledges and
are paid in full. This is truly a ndble effort and all praise to those whose
contributions have made possible the program of ground-breaking on
October 26, 1955.
Every dollar contributed to this building fund will be used 100%
for construction. The expense of the fund raising effort was paid by
Grand Lodge.

This program will obviously result in a balance due at the end of
the l 0 year term unless we are able to take advantage of the privilege
which we have of anticipating payments without penalty, should our
financial position permit.
It is the considered judgment of your Committee, based on the
studies made to date and requests for use of the building by outside
groups, that revenue from the building and garage should within a
few years cover the cost of operation.

110

SALB OF 25 VAN NESS AVENUE TEMPLE STOCK
Pursuant to authority of the Grand Lodge granted at the 1954 annual communication, a special committee consisting of your Grand
Treasurer, Edward H. Siems, your Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A.
P8ueger, and Past Grand Master, Arthur M. Warren, met a number
of times with a special committee of the Board of Directors of the Temple
Association, consisting of Brothers Ira W. Cdburn, Grand Marshal and
Past Master of Doric Lodge No. 216, R. W. Blosser, Past Master of
Ingleside ·Lodge No. 630, and C. C. Trowbridge, Jr., Past Master of
California Lodge No. 1.
After a thorough exploration and a most cooperative undertaking,
an agreement was reached whereby the 33,985 shares of stock owned
by the Grand Lodge was sold to the Masonic Temple Association of
California for $7.50 per share, or a total of $254,887.50.
A resolution has been presented to Grand Lodge for official approval at this session to make the funds received therefrom available to
the California Masonic Memorial Temple Fund.
l.oNG-TERM BoRROWING
Six San Francisco Banks, namely, American Trust Company, Anglo
Califo~ia National Bank, Bank of America, N. T. and S. A., The
Bank of California, N. A., Crocker First National Bank and Wells
Fargo Bank have agreed to loan to the California Masonic Memorial
Temple, a California corporation, 50% of the cost of the construction
and cost of land, but not to exceed $3,000,000 at 4% interest per annum on declining balances. The loan is for a period of l 0 years, amortized at 4% annually of the original commitment, or on whatever lesser
sum may be borrowed. No commitment fee is being charged. Interest
will accrue only as the money is drawn, and we may repay as much
annually on the principal as we wish without penalty. We express our
appreciation to these Banks for their cooperation.

APPRECIATION
On behalf of the entire Committee and all others active in the Campaign, we desire to pay a well-deserved tribute to Brother Harold D.
Weber, Committee Coordinator, and the office staff which, under his
direction, so efficiently handled the details of the Campaign.
RECOMMENDATIONS
The following recommendations are concurred in not only by the
Committee, but also by all of the elective officers of Grand Lodge. These
brethren have attended, almost without exception, every meeting of the
Committee, and have rendered extraordinarily fine service. We are especially grateful to Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master,
who has somehow found time, in spite of his busy schedule, to attend
many of the meetings of the Committee. His advice on general Temple
matters has been most helpful. and his legal counsel has been invalua:ble.
The recommendations are as follows:
1. That t!ie Committee on California Masonic Memorial Temple be
continued:
2. That the following resolution heretofore submitted by the members of this Committee levying an assessment against the lodges of
$10.00 for each Master Mason carried on its rolls as of July 31, 1956,
be adopted:
RESOLUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California, F. 5 A.M.:
WHEREAS, at each Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge for
the past 8 years, beginning with 1947, the proposal to build a new Masonic Memorial Temple has been before the Grand Lodge for its consideration, and
WHEREAS, there have been in attendance at these 8 Communications
a total of 15,504 Masters, Wardens and Past Masters, representing an
average of 575 Lodges at each Session, and
WHEREAS, after full and free discussion of each and every proposal
these representatives of the Lodges have voted to construct such a Memorial Temple, and

113

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS, these representatives of Lodges approved the ultimate
plan as now proposed, and
WHEREAS, to finance the construction, in part, these representatives
of Lodges approved a campaign for voluntary contributions with the
objective of securing at least $10.00 per member, and
WHEREAS, such a campaign has been in progress since March 14,
1954, and has produced in cash contributions and pledges $1,223,056.91,
.
·
and
WHEREAS, many Lodges and their members have made a magnificent
contribution to this program, averaging more than $10.00 per member,
and others have done very well, and
WHEREAS, some Lodges and their members have not effectively promoted the campaign for contributions, and
WHEREAS, the failure of these Lodges to reach $10.00 per member
creates an inequity among the Lodges and the members which results
in an unequal bearing of the burden, and
WHEREAS, it is the essence of Freemasonry that the will of the
majority shall always govern the entire Craft and the burdens and
responsibilities shall fall equally upon all, and
WHEREAS, it is now desirable that this fundamental of Freemasonry
be carried out in the Masonic Memorial Temple project,
Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved that the representatives of the
Lodges at this 106th Annual Communication levy an assessment on the
Lodges of $10.00 for each Master Mason carried on its rolls as of July
31, 1956, and
Be It Further Resolved that each Lodge have credited against its
total assessment the full amount of all its contributions in the hands of
the Grand Secretary prior to July 1, 1956, and
Be It Further Resolved that the difference between the amount of
the total assessment and the amount of contributions received shall be
due and payable with the Annual Returns in five installments, commencing with the Annual Returns of 1956, and
Be It Further Resolved that such portion of each annual installment
as is not contributed voluntarily by the members shall be paid from the
Lodge treasury.
JoHN C. BovEY, P.M. No. 166
OTTO H. FISCHER, P.M. No. 215
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, P.M. No. 370
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.M. No. 560
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.M. No. 481

those brethren making voluntary contributions to have their names
recorded in the "Open Book.''
4. That the following resolution transferring funds in the amount
of $254,887.50 derived from the sale of the stock owned by Grand Lodge
in 25 Van Ness Avenue to the Masonic Temple Association be adopted:

112

3. That the lodges be encouraged and urged to continue the campaign for voluntary contributions so that the assessment may be paid
without drawing on lodge funds, and also making it possible for all

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, it has been the declared intention of the Grand Lodge to
sell its stock in the Masonic Temple Association of California and apply
the proceeds therefrom toward the construction of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, such intent being declared in recommendation
No. 3 of the report of the California Masonic Memorial Temple Committee, Page 181, 1954 Proceedings, which recommendation was adopted, and
WHEREAS, in conformity with the requirements of such recommendation all 33,985 shares of stock of the Masonic Temple Association of
California owned by the Grand Lodge were sold at $7.50 per share in
August 1955 for which the Grand Lodge received and has on deposit
a total of $254,877.50.
Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved that in accordance with such declared intent the Grand Lodge hereby formally transfers from the General Funds of the Grand Lodge to the building fund of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple the sum of $254,877.50.
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.M. No. 560
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.M. No. 481
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, P.M. No. 370
OTTO H. FISCHER, P.M. No. 215
JoHN C. BovEY, P.M. No. 166

5. It has been suggested to the Committee than since about 80%
of the construction work is to be done by sub-contractors that effective
savings may possibly be realized through negotiation with one or more
general contractors.
The policy adopted in 1953 as recommendation 6 reads as follows:
"6. That the architect be instructed to complete detailed specifications and drawings preparatory to
calling for bids from not less than 5 prime contractors, the bids to be opened in public."
It is recommended that the above .b e reaffirmed with this amendment,
"or as an alternative, the Committee may through the architect negoti-

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ate with one or more general contractors for a contract price based on
a fixed fee with a guarant eed maximum cost."
6. That this Grand Lodge ratify and confirm all acts and action
taken lby this Committee as now and heretofore reported to this Grand
Lodge and as reflected in the records of the Grand Lodge, and that the
appropriate elected officers of this Grand Lodge be authorized to negotiate any and all agreements and execute any and all documents required
to carry out the intent of said resolutions and policy in order to complete
the building of the California Masonic Memorial Temple at the earliest
possible date.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS (560)
JOHN c. BOVEY ( 166)
OTTO H. FISCHER (215)
PAUL A. PFLUEGER (370)
ARTHUR M. WARREN (481)
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

115

REPO RT OF THE GRAN D SECRE TARY
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Fourtee nth Annual
Report as your Grand Secretary.
loDGES UNDER DISPENSATION
Hamilton Lodge U.D., Claude H. Morrison Lodge U.D., Luther
Burbank Lodge U.D., San Pablo Lodge U.D .. Lawndale Lodge U.D.,
Golden Bowl Lodge U.D., Clayton Valley Lodge U.D. and Channe l
Lodge U.D. were instituted shortly before the close of the fiscal year.
Each of these Lodges collected only an equal or a less amount of
dues than the per capita <tax, and in accord with precedent the Grand
Master, at my suggestion, directed that they be not required to pay the
per capita tax. It is respectfully requested that this be approved.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Forest Lodge No. 66, page 141, 1954 Proceedings.
2. Funeral Ceremo ny Revision, page 248, 1954 Proceedings.
3. Investigation under Decision No. 11, page 269, 1954 Proceedings.
4. Investigation under Decision No. 20, page 270, 1954 Proceedings.
5. Los Angeles Masonic Hall, page 276, 1954 Proceedings.
6. Review of Section 210, page 266, 1954 Proceedings.
7. Suspension of Master, Decision No. 21, page 274, 1954 Proceediirgs.
CHANGE OF MEETING PLACE
The attention of the Charter s Committee is hereby called to the case
of Oakwo od Lodge U.D. which was granted a dispensation to meet at
Glendale. They have subsequently change d their meeting place to
La Crescenta, and, if a charter is granted, it should be for Oakwo od
Lodge at La Crescenta.
There is a situation at Long Beach in which the following Lodges
meet in the Alta Loma Temple located in the area designated as Signal
Hill-AJ .ta Loma No. 643, Bixby Knolls No. 699 and Lakewood No.
728. This is not an incorporated city but is an industrial zone having
very few homes, having no post office, and where the official mailing
address is Long ·Beach. It is a part of the Long Beach School District
and is served by Long Beach telephone exchange and Long Beach
utilities. The official location of these three Lodges should be Long
Beach, and it is requested that Grand Lodge so confirm it.
The following Lodges have removed their place of meeting to a
place other than that named in the charter. These removals should be

116

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

approved, and the charters returned to the Grand Secretary for proper
endorsement.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509-moved from Los Angeles to
Beverly Hills.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607-moved from Monrovia to Duarte.
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652-moved from Montrose to La
Crescenta.
Indian Wells Valley No. 691-moved from lnyokem to Ridgecrest.
MEMBERSHIP

In presenting the members'hip totals for the year I have also given
the Bgures for the preceding four years in order that there may be
readily shown the progress being made in this present decade.
There have been 17 new Lodges formed during the year, and there
are many others whkh are in some stage of organization and will,
undoubtedly. request a dispensation during the coming year. The membership continues to grow and is at an all time high of 224,887 including
463 plural members.
Since I · was Grand Master in 1940-41 we have added approximately 100 Lodges and almost 100,000 members. It is clear that Masonry
is growing in this state and that we are not likely to have any worries
as far as "quantity" is concerned. The emphasis on "quality" must,
however, never be relaxed if we are to maintain our own fundamentals
and merit the general good pu:blic opinion of the Fraternity.
New Lodges Formed........
Initiated.............................
Pass~cl. ..............................

Raised................................

1951

•1952

6
8,951
8,745
8,909
1,941
6
395
1.631

2
9,252
8,961
8,711
1,929
6
358
1,497

1953
11
10,003
9,311
9,179
2,436

1954
12
9,437
9,396
9,370
2,568
1
375
1,803

1955
17
8,609
8,434
8,679
2,852
5
383
1,935

Aftlliated............................
Gained by Error...............
375
Reinstated.........................
1,894
Withdrawn.......................
Suspended for
1,053
910
871
832
826
Non-Payment of Dues.
Suspended or Expelled
32
38
31
34
29
for Cause. ......................
6
1
11
4
Loss by Error....................
3,676
3,582
3,386
3,298
Died..........- ....................... 3,061
224,887*
219,664
Number of Members........ 202,500 207,832 213,639
3,564
3,317
2,820
2.562
Dues Remitted. ................. 2,538
5,223
6,025
5,807
5,332
Gain. .................._............... 5,700
653
636
624
613
611
Number of Lodges............
*Including 463 plural members.

117

CONSOLIDATION

Forest Lodge No. 66, located at Alleghany, has in recent years been
a victim of the curtailing of gold mining. It is reminiscent of the early
days that ghost towns are created when mining ceases and Masons,
along with others, depart for more productive fields. This has been true
in the case of Forest Lodge No. 66 where only four members remain
in Alleghany.
The difficulties of continuing a Lodge are obvious, and after several
years of devoted effort the members have reluctantly voted to consolidate with Gravel Range Lodge No. 59 at Camptonville, with which
Lodge they have always had the most friendly relations.
All the requirements of the constitution have been met, and the
new Lodge desires to ·be known as Gravel Range Lodge No. 59.
Once more, due to circumstances beyond our control, we bid a
sorrowful farewell to a splendid old Lodge which always upheld the
finest principles of the institution in the mining area which it served.
CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION

When the Grand Lodge of California celebrated its Centennial in
October, 1950, the Grand Lodge of Canada in the Province of Ontario
was ably represented lby its Grand Secretary, Right Worshipful Ewart
G. Dixon. At that time Brother Dixon extended an invitation to California to be present in Toronto when the Centennial of the Grand Lodge
of Canada was observed.
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, was unable
to attend due to his own heavy S<:hedule, and ·he designated the Grand
Secretary to ·be the official representative of the Grand Lodge of California and the special representative of the Grand Master. The Grand
Secretary attended the Centennial Celebration July 13th to 17th, and
tdbute must be paid to our Canadian Brethren for the magnificent manner in which the observance was conducted. Everything possible was
done for the entertainment of the guests, and all were impressed with
the 'SOiemnity and dignity with which the program was carried out.
California was honored by the selection of Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master, as the principal speaker. His address
was delivered at a !banquet attended by 3,300 Master Masons. Past
Grand Master Meyer, always a most effective speaker, was at his best
and everyone who had the opportunity to hear him profited greatly.
NEW LoDGES

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
San Leandro Lodge U.D. located at San Leandro. Dispensation
granted September 22, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on November
16, 1954, at San Leandro, Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand
Master, officiating.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The charter membership is as follows: Edward August Theile, Clifton Stanley Jahnson, William Elmer Schindler, Oscar Nels Anderson,
Elwin Leroy Armstrong, Earl Freeman Artherton, Orville Wesley Artherton, Kenneth Grover Avery, John Thomas Avery, Elmer Robert
Baker, Glen Arthur Barth, Cliffon Stanley Bonde, Stanley Block, Ellsworth James Chinn, Max Burton Corbett, Harold AJ!bert Duey, Lornel
Audrey Dunn, Lachlon McDonald Elder, Edward Evans, Renald Fernald. Walter Otto Glover, William Frances Guilbert, Ferris Erwin
Hansen, John Ely Hawkins, Lew Ward Hudson, Jr., Earl Willis Huntting. Carl Nathan Jones, Albert Harris Kalakian, Jacdb Ross Kinney,
John Willis Lee, Donald Derk Lenters, William Frank Lovell, Robert
William Matthews. Zino Hampton Mauvais, William Charles McCabe,
Leroy Canedy McKissick, Sr.• Leroy Canedy McKissick, Jr., John
William Parker, Aylmer Earl Pelton, Harry Reite, Ezekial Tavares
Robello, James Mervin Roberts, Guy Orlean Robinson, Carl Peter Thor,
William Donald Spruance, Sr., William Donald Spruance. Jr., George
V. Urwan, Neal Scott Williamson, and Rolland Ball Wilson.

Sam James Rogers, Charles Carney, Lawton Evan Meacham, Robert
Leonard McKim, Joseph Athanase Maucotel. Judson Evans Gibbs,
Albert Erdman Miller, Herman Gust Miller, Charles William Wright,
Russell Lindsay Sturgeon, Charles Curtis Hockett, David Hiram Roddick. William John Molnar, Claude Milford Sprague, August Linck,
Jr .. Lloyd Lawrence Garrison, Ernest James Holt Murray, Robert Jay
Gregory, Dewey Hobson Taylor, Stuart Absalom Cameron, Charles
Richard Jum;p, Marion Hays Hickey, Gerald Wayne Cunningham,
Everett Albert Williames, Horace Sidney Paul, Clarence Foster McMahan, Paul George Baker, Walter Salee Brooks, Montfred Brisco
Luby, Motley M. Magruder and Farrell Brice Plymate.

118

Peninsula Lodge U.D. located at San Mateo. Dispensation granted
October 9, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on November 19, 1954, at
San Mateo. Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter memberS'hip is as follows: Westley Pigmond Jones.
Richard Eugene Giesen, Irvin Paul Larsen, John Gibson Maddux, William Don Rigler, Frank Herschel Campbell, Bruce Frederic McClard,
Edward Roberts Nichols, Christopher Ferdinand Madison, Theodore
August Lukas, John Arthur Miller, Joseph Emil Young, Emil Joseph
Ribarsky, Kenneth William Buckley, Fred Marshall Wyckoff, Jack
Bates Johnson, Richard Parill Wjseheart, Lawrence Henry Rich, Stanley Palmer Ward. William Oscar ·Boehman, Winfred Charles Van
Bebber, Arthur Chester Allan, Harry Keller Wolff, Arthur Ray Dixon,
Victor Lloyd Danielson, Charles Edward Long, Homer Eugene McDaniel and Henry Peter Jorgensen.
Highland Lodge U.D. located at Highland. Dispensation granted
January 6, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on February 4, 1955. Most
Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Guy William Whelchel. Ross
Texter Gregory, Howard Gilbert Smith, Arthur Gerdes Mattes, John
Roger Sprang, Hollis Herbert Williams, Frank Joseph Kent, Chester
Carl Hamilton, Gradie Warren Hart, Richard Irving Bottroff, Hyman
Alexander Pleasant, Stewart Valentine Davidson, Henry Lewis Brown,
Harold Lee Roach, George Merriman Ziegler, Harold Louis Johnston,
George William Moore, Clifford Sheldon Hoxie, Harry Earl Minerd,

119

Mother Colony Lodge U.D. located at Anaheim. Dispensation
granted January 6, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on February 5, 1955,
at Anaheim. Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Warren Candler Hodges,
Herman Adolph Koenig, David Herbert Van Meter, Frank Smith Nipper. Robert Francis Nipper, James Gamaliel Hull, John George
Bultena, George Thompson Wieczorek, Albert Ernest Day, Richard
Harrison Snodgrass, Raymond Randolph Melvin, Fred John Rector,
Harold William Svenson, Allen Josiah Rees, Leo Jessen Friis, John
Vincent Thompson, Warren Day, Herman Lee Rdberts, Lain Layfatte
Reader. James Owen Faulkner, Arthur Emil Wieczorek, George Jerome
Platfoot, Jr., Stanley Edward Parker, Ted Frank Koblitz, Paul Mitre,
Joseph Charles Hurst, Bruno Scheffler, Jack C. MoCarty, Milton Henry
Kohne. Reuben Tucker, Frank Harvey Clear, Logan Lee Megenity,
Buster William Burges, Emory Samuel Simon, Glen L. Bigler, Thomas .
Wayne Chronister, Wayne L. Butterbaugh and Glen Edward McCloud.
Merced Lodge U.D. located at Merced. Dispensation granted on
January 6, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on February 8, 1955, at
Merced, Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Russel Cassity, Paul Evington King, William Clarence Andersen, James Alexander Cobey,
William Cla~born Coleman, Archie Edwin Cotton, John Henry Dyer,
Richard Deane Edde, Vernon Tobias Fike, Leonard Ryan Froebe, Edwin David Gatchel, Donald Moore Givens, William Ernest Guy, Sam
Greenberg, Albert Sidney Haigh, Harry Emanuel Hart, Arthur George
liilden, Robert Bennett Holtam, Clyde William Ingraham, William
Albert Jensen, Conrad Felix Kreisa, Roy Adelbert LeBaron, William
Daniel Lewis, Guy Oliver Marriott, Walter Henry Meyer, Donald Forrest Millheim, Forrest M. Millheim, Argyle lams Miller, Thomas Austin Melton, Leo C. Mitchell. Albert Garvid Nelson, Ralph Merritt Olson,
Eustace Nicholas Pantell, Vance Voris Pollard, Walter Jacob Regehr,

121

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Richard Arthur Rosander, August Harold Rolfes, Joseph Martinez
Sarzoza, Jonathon Philo Shoemaker, Eston Edward Spangenberg, Law..
rence AJbert Thompson, Walter Homer Todd, Fred H. Walker, Jr.,
Letus Alexander Wallace, George Gordon Whitehurst, Edgar Emerald
Whittington and Richard Nesbitt Witt.

The charter membership is as follows: Lud Lowery Handley, Alton
Forrest Jackson, Thomas Lorenzo Walston, Sr., Thomas Lorenzo Walston, Jr.. Rupert Kirk Graham, William Henry Greenwell, Benjamin
Ra.leigh Bryant, Herbert James Yeck, Hugh Evans Walker, Wayne
Clinton Wooten, Francis Marion Law Sullivan, Theo Victor Cook,
George Conger Sherk, Cleve Holt Lund, Arthur Herbert Wilcox Sam..
uel Milton Krauth, Bascomb Gordon West, Edward Popovich,
Ford Thamsen, Roy Vernon Brown, Edgar Stephen Stubbs, Charles
Jordan. Printz, Charles Howard Knightstep, James Herbert Fortner, Jr.,
M~ed1t~ Samuel Chase, Charles Ralph Hunter, Collin Charles Savage,
Mike Poindexter, John Hartman, GiJ.bert Edward Coldiron, James Morgan Ayers, Jr.• McKinley Everett Tompkins, Ronald John Nourse, Edgar Shaw, Charles Louis Kahler, Jr., Edgar LaDuke Fuller, Claude Calvin Lindsay, William Wayne Eddington, Harold Earone Gaylord,
James Ponder Ginn, Frank Elmer Jolly, Earle Howard Lohr, Waldo
Sumner Cates, Jesse Homer Entreken, Paul Waymound Bennett and
'
·
Merlin E. Webb.

120

Soquel Lodge U.D. located at Soquel. Dispensation granted January 6, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on March 21, 1955, at Soquel,
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Alvin William Wendt, James
Brown Scofield, Roy Albert Carter, Joseph Leroy Tedrowe, Harry
Abrahm Barrington, Ludwig Sterner, Jim Orland Strickland, Rowland
Seth Brown, Daniel Harry Garrett, Alexander Logan Bachar, Richard
Hugg, William Denser, Levi Garrett Hanby, John Smith Turbett, Ellis
Frank Aver, Bruce Edwin Hoque, Harry Hayes Hill, Frank Fleisig,
James Gordon Walker, Willis Taylor Brookman, Eugene Rhem Cook,
T. Fenton Ham, Chester Montgomery Young, Gustaf Edward Wah}..
berg, Francis Alton Swall, Willis DeWitt Bartlett, Roy Charles Hodgson, Clarence Wesley Tucker, Louis Lee Jemison, Irvin Miller Smith,
Fred DeLucchi, Horace Young Stuart, John McQuaid Hayford, Henry
W. Ferlaak, Leo Dean Bass, Alfred Robinson Morgan, Harvey David
McKee and Irvin Miller Smith II.
Hamilton Lodge U.D. located at Novato. Dispensation granted
January 6, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on April 6, 1955, at San
Rafael, Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter memlbership is as follows: Hugo Ewald Clever, Walter
John Lundblad, Roy Omer York, Jack Tummins, Ralph William Kemerer, Harry Edwin Clausing, Lawrence Gerome Chapman, Chester
Perle Lilly, Sr., Robert Cordes Remley, Arthur Sigfred Olson, Pratt
DeVoe Sprague, Otto Adolf Larson, Delbert Clair Buckwalter, Elmo
Oriphus Smith, Charles Thomas Clemmer, Arthur Ludwig Hebel, William Albert Zaehringer, Harvey John Vicchio, Charles Wesley Russell,
Lee Campbell Wise, William Thomas Miazga, Charles Edgar Carlile,
Harvey Eugene Slocum, Francis Arthur Porter, Gilbert Ernest Ha}..
verson, James Sylvester Sutton, Lawrence Leslie Dean, Harry Aaron
Lundblad, Jason William Douglass, Gustov Sonnenberg, Herbert Emory Enyeart, Clemens Walter Apitz, Lawrence Ernest Tresch, Joseph
Pius Hemm, Lloyd Ellis Giddings, Louis Buzzine, Ernest Laxton, Herman Daniel Wehrer, David Levern Fredenlburg, Stephen Cartland
Bruff, Charles Cullen Bell and Samuel Albert Hackleroad.
Claude H. Morrison Lodge U.D. located at Chula Vista. Dispen·
sation granted January 6, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on May 14,
1955, at San Diego, Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master,
officiating.

Henry

Luther Burbank Lodge U.D. located at Santa Rosa. Dispensation
granted April 9, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on May 7, 1955, at
Santa Rosa, Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Leland Herbert Dibble, Stanley Ketchel Coates, Gerald Frank Bittle, Charles Edward Dix, Louis
Melvin Hall, George William Sumner, Robert Irvine Payne, Charles
Bertram Wight, Julian Stewart Henry, Paul Greene Henry, Joseph
Metcalf, Edward Rut'hmond Berwick, Richard Edward Ayres, Glenn
Franklin Hendricks, Leland Albert Geisenhofer, Frederick Tillmannshofer, Ronda Taylor Willis, Paul James Dowling, Paul Arthur Mostowski, 'Berkeley Nash, Stanley Donald Arata, Obe Anson Cockrill,
Leonard Schmidt, Dean Albert White, Dudley Shields Moore, Francis
Osman Vincent, Murray Laverne Ballard, LeRoy Adell Mealman,
James Burrell Hayes, Philip Lacy Brown, Henry Ferguson Strachan, Jr.,
Walter Stracke, Julian Adkins McDowell, Blaine Dennison Brainerd,
Earl Edgar Wakefield, Stanley Lee Lance, John Jacob Whelan, Leona}
James Wells, Humbert America Panizzera, Arthur Eugene Schindler,
Lloyd Franklin Hiatt, Percy George Hall, Ndble Anslem Parker, Allan
McLean Call, Vern William Ritter, Clifford Earl Hicks, Charles Muirhead and Arthur Theodore Pomerlo.
i:-awndale Lodge U.D. located at Hawthorne. Dispensation granted
April 9, 1955. The Lodi:Je was instituted on June 25, 1955, at Hawthorne, Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Howard Houston Arnold,
Elmer Frank Mohr, Wilburn Odell Nash, Cumming Alexander William
Duff, Raymond Edward Boshart, Walter Solon, Dan William Butler,

122

123

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Phillip Eugene Graham, Gilbert Lowell McMillan, Benjamin Charles
Howard, Claude Dee Meredith, Robley Thomas McNaney, Harry
William Deitchman, Arthur James Thibodeau, George Wilson Gillett,
Bernard Wikott Beck, Theodore Irving Teske, Fred Allen Halloway,
David Keacli Brown, Alfred Arthur Liebich, Alonzo Clarence Bell,
Hervey Loran Smith, W. Robert Balliet, Edward Herman Test, Virgil
Henry Freitas, William Herbert Hendrex, Abner Frank Richardson,
Irving Delmer Keifhaber, Joe Vernon Record, Henry Leroy DeWitt,
Hamilton Allan Meyers, Rdbert James Wish, Albert Frank LaMotte,
David William Koogler, Wayne Harold Proctor, Harold Glenn Albright, Norman Lester Davis, Joseph Mitchell Libby, George Marsters
Paul, Vernon Fitzhugh Rigg. Clair Philip Catterlin, John Raymond
Stockman, Jose Manuel De La Torre, Donald Charles Browning, Harvey
Edward McCutcheon, Morris Albert Hooper, J. B. Long, Clabourne
Leslie Long, James Joseph Burns and Frederick William Affolter.

Jr.. Andrew Frank Johnson, Harry Blanchard Kearns, William Joe
Kemp. Bernice Legon Lackey, Martin Clifford Larsen, James Riblin
McDaniels, William Henry McDonald, John William McMichael.
George Spencer Meldrum, Thomas Henry Mowery, Herman Edward
Owen. Herman Ferd Pabst, William Albert Reed, Arthur Harmon
Royce, George Warren Royce, Lee Schexschnider, Garrah Keep Smith,
Harry Barton Smith, Ray Orlando Smith, Vergil Arthur Sperline, Frank
Charles Stapleton, James Henry Thacker, Louis Elmer Walker, Raymond Perry Warden, Elmer Eugene Warner, Cyril Franklin Whitesell
and Kenneth Karl Wiesmore.

San Pablo Lodge U.D. located at San Pablo. Dispensation granted
April 14, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on May 2, 1955, at Richmond,
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Joseph Sousa Alameda, Alfred
Lowell Atwood, Martin Wiltz, Gilbert Wellman Leonard, Robert Lee
Harrison, Stephen Duncan Buchan, Bdbbie Byron Buerkens, Clarence
William Young'berg. Franklin Taylor Bell, Manuel Harm Begley. Alexander McNabb, Horace George Wentworth, Kenneth Charles Wright,
Chester Lewis Stanley, Vincent James McCarthy, Claude Donald Harris, John Edward Marvin, Fred A. Barringer, Warren Postle, Merrill
Wayne Nielsen, Harry Leslie Mulle.r, Allen Randle Tapp, Edward
Lawrence Craft, Orley B. Imes, John Riach Blake, Roy Harrison Cleek,
Jerome Hulen Seaborn, Andrew Bernard Montoya, John McPherson
McNicol, Andrew Sigabee Morris, Robert Benedict, Jr., Glenn Henry
Brock, Salvatore Emmanuele, Donald E. Raum, Donald Leroy Stone,
Harley Frederick Lancaster, Walter Frederick Hansen, Ralph Isaac
Lloyd, Cecil John Taylor, Freeman Carl Haas, John Harvey Schaeffer,
Clyde Clinton Gillespie and George Almon Peaslee.
Golden Bowl Lodge U.D. located at South Gate. Dispensation granted April 21, 1955. The Lodge was instituted June 4, 1955, at South Gate,
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Robert Howard Coker, Daniel
Brewer Erwin, James Ralph Coleman, John Arthur Arnold, Roy Austin,
Richard Taylor Brassell, Jr., Edward Higgins Britton, John Harold
Brown, Clifford Roy Bruber, Norman Theodore Bruber, Norval Frank
Carter, Otto James Christensen, George Carlton Colby, Jack Hamilton
Day, Ainslee Grant Dent, William Wilson Deuel, Earl Morrey Farwell.
Walter William Fitch, Enis N. Harderson, Emmett Richards Hayes,
Joseph Rdbert Henville, Franklin Clyde Howe, Erna Waddie Jenkins,

Channel Lodge U.D. located at Stockton. Dispensation granted
April 25, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on July 8, 1955, at Stockton,
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Wendell Howard Nicol.
Charles William Botkin, Charles Newcomb Clarkson, Louis Jacobs, Roy
Alvin Filloon, Marcus Anthony Epperson, Dan Newton Ivey, Frank
Buford Allen, Mitchell Henry Arif£, Seward Carlton Stroud, Robert
Asbury Morris, Homer Cecil McFadden, Virgil Webster Gray, William
Emory Chandler, Leland George Marshall, Donald Lee Allen, George
Arthur Ro1'bins, Jr., William Gong Low, Lawrence Keong Low, Harold
Norman Ironside, Jack George Abrahamson, lzziedor Himer Pores, Benjamin Harold Pores, Fred John Borelli, William Nelson, Guy Wilber
Payton, Jr., William Peterson, Milton John Allen, Howard Roscoe Van
Vranken, Cullen Larry Hulsey, Purl Whitney Fetterley, William Robert
Mensinger, Calvin Earl Swift, Raymond Gideon Berry, James Darrell
Smith, Merle ,Augustine Segale, Edward Holton Morrison, Charles
Howard Mathews, Kenneth Lawrence Mathews and Howard Dale Atkinson.
Clayton Valley Lodge U.D. located at Concord. Dispensation granted May 9, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on July 1, 1955, at Concord,
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Hal Asa Mishler, Otis Sanders Olson, Edwin Winfleld Smith, John Wi11iam Fulton, Emanuel
George Walter Dubbs, Bert Edwin Dawe, Coleman Lawe Poynter,
Alfred Pimental, Philip Salisbury Luke, Max Otto Rohrer, Francis
Edward Nicliolas, Floyd Leon Torrey, Alan Laurence Austin, Paul
Martin Van Aken, John Russel Fowler, Norman Isaac Firkins, Walter
Dremluk, Everett Lewis Burks, Linden Ernest Barton, William Richard
Burton, Melvin Perry Chrislock, George Francis Searle, Mitchell Lee
Marr, James Fesler Briscoe, Frank Harold Shimek, Gunner Cecil Anderson, James Wesley Dent, Walter William Krigin, Lemuel Robert Martin, Verlon David Conyers, Frank Alford Long, Custer Gullett, Walter
Leo Porter, Dale Henry Mero, Francis Marion Scott, Horace Pierpont
Morgan, Howard Arthur Bosies, George Thomas Minns, Frank Edward

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Eugene Egenlberger, Glenn Finley Gregg. Rufus William Johnson,
Krulish, Rodney Doyle Raines. Edward Maurice Chauvaud, Robert
William Henry Malone, Julius Preszler, Forrest Owen Dannelley, Gilbert McCammon Giffin and Tilford Gail Klinefelter.

LIFE MEMBERSHIP

124

El Rancho Lodge U.D. located at Whittier. Dispensation granted
August 31, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on September 17, 1955, at
Whittier, Most Worshipful Henry C. Oausen, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Peter Jan, William Raleigh
Neilson, Carl Robert Young, John Kelley Schimmelman, Thoralf Thorsen, Albert Tansley Luck, Allen Pierce Thomason. Logan Elmer Newton, Richard Pierson Higgins, Toney Clyde Pyle, Elmer Clarence
Hughes, Richard Amos Wheatley, James Dunwell White, James Durward Harper. Jerry Walvoord, Sherwood Ray Reese, Lawrence Abraham Gruer, Robert Walter Ross, Herbert Chester Galland. Earl Robert
Manley, Marion Statler Berry, Sterling Schlanbusch Osmundson, Floyd
Earl Woodcock, Marion Josiah Gorsuch. Alpha Moses, Jr.• Raymond
August Schmitt, Carl Bradford Knox, Bronson Anthony Johnson, Renaldo Eugene Jarecki and William Frank Sweet.
West Covina Lodge U.D. located at Baldwin Park. Dispensation
granted August 15, 1955. The Lodge was instituted on Octdber 7, 1955,
at El Monte, Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Herbert Van Riper. Julius
Leroy Forkey. Herbert William Meyerinck, Jr., William George Hardy,
Paul Hillman, Keith Arnold Howe. Charles D. Lawless Hutchison. Nelson Dean Hunter, James E. Laird, Jr., Louis Oscar Mason, LeRoy
George Miller. Jerry Clay Nichols, Cornelius Howard Owings, Warren
Victor Prince. John Wesley Parmer, Rielly Morton Reynolds, Chester
Gerhart Riesing, Houston Pedro Simpkins, Norman Robert Hettman,
Harry Robert Snyder. Bert Claud Van Hom, Robert Flotten, John
Thomas Brown, Albert Howenstine Miller, Leo Paul Vander Haeghn,
Sherwood Alan Jackman, Lawrence Franklin Bell. Harlan Curtis Basinger. Jean Kenneth Campbell, Loren Archi'bald Wetherby. Artie Richard
Jett, Hartmann de Waard, James Nicholas Kirtley, Edward Mitchell
Lawrence, Jack Clyde Abra, Walter Henry Buchman, Earl Malcolm
Bigger, Samuel D. Carter. Malcolm William Chapman, Oliver Crawford, Clyde Wilson Darby, Maurice Keith Darby, Arthur Raymond
Dodge. William Lester Duncan, Lloyd Tracy Dodd, Lloyd Vickers
Firestone, Anthony Michel Poto, Terence Stanley Gamblin, Roy Melbourne Godding and Harry Albert Hall.

125

Resolutions providing for life membership in the following Lodges
were approved:
Increasing fee: Golden Gate No. 30, to $400.00; Mount Moriah No.
44. to $375.00: Redlands No. 300, to $325.00: Balder No. 393, to
$375.00; Apollo No. 396, to $312.50; Silver Trowel No. 415, to $375.00;
Woodstock No. 491, to $350.00; Cahuenga No. 513, to $312.50; George
Washington No. 525, to $450.00; South Park No. 563, to $312.50.
Fixing fee: Henry Clay No. 95, at $333.33; Hollywood No. 355, at
$315.00.

Decreasing fee: Plymouth No. 560, to $315.00.
DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: North Star
No. 91; Clay No. 101 , Concord No. 117; Table Mountain No. 124;
Keystone No. 161; Solano No. 229; Alham•bra No. 322: Corona No.
324: Burbank No. 406; San Dimas No. 428; Maricopa No. 434; Schofield No. 443; The Gardens No. 621; Henry Knox No. 662: Far West
No. 673; Lake Tahoe No. 707; Oasis of Mara No. 735; San Leandro
U.D.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Howard No. 37; Crescent No. 45; Rose's Bar No. 89; Janesville No. 232; Sequoia No. 349;
Apollo No. 396; Schofield No. 443; Fairview No. 629: San Clemente
No. 671; Los 'Cerritos No. 674; Carmel No. 680; Anacapa No. 71 O;
San Ramon Valley No. 724: Merced U.D.; Luther Burbank U.D.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces without reference to a committee of investigation: Sincerity No.
132.

To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months: George Washington No. 525: Belmont Shore
No. 716; San ·Lorenzo Valley No. 718; Two Rivers No. 731.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Mount
Moriah No. 44: Anclior No. 273: Starr King No. 344: Parnassus No.
388; Garvanza No. 492: Composite No. 639: Crescenta Valley No.
652: Los Cerritos No. 674: Los Altos No. 712; Oakwood U.D.
Special permission for the conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite Union
No. 17; Clovis No. 417; Mount Olive No. 506; Euclid No. 519; Craftsmen No. 559.
Miscellaneous: Normal Heights No. 632.

126

127

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

South Park No. 563: James A. Garfield No. 566: Composite No. 639:
Sojourner No. 607: Lorenzo No. 709.
Provi3ion for legal holidays: San Jose No. 10: Crescent No. 45:
Arcata No. 106: Hermann No. 127: South West No. 283: Alhambra
No. 322: Jewel No. 374: Richmond No. 375: Oceanside No. 381: Imperial No. 390: Clovis No. 417: Chino Valley No. 427: San Dimas No.
428; Tremblor No. 477: Mount Davidson No. 481: Fremont No. 497:
Cahuenga No. 513: Sunnyside No. 577: Security No. 581: All States
No. 593: Lamanda Park No. 627: Damascus No. 648: John D. Spreckels
No. 657: Malta No. 661: San Antonio No. 694: El Cerrito No. 705:
Los Altos No. 712: Magnolia Park No. 715.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Marin No. 191: San Leandro
U.D.: Peninsula U.D.: Mother Colony U.D.: Merced U.D.: Highland
U.D.: Soquel U.D.: Hamilton U.D.: San Pablo U.D.: Luther Burbank
U.D.: Claude H. Morrison U.D.: Golden Bowl U.D.: Lawndale U.D.:
Clayton Valley U.D.: Channel U.D.: El Rancho U.D.: West Covina
U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Eden No. 113: Mission No. 169: Mosaic
No. 218: Redlands No. 300: San Fernando No. 343.
Mutual Agreement Re Fees: Yosemite No. 99: Merced U.D.

Increasing fees: Western Star No. 2, to $65.00: Tehama No. 3, to
$100.00: Eden No. 113, to $105.00: Northern Light No. 190, to $65.00:
Silveyville No. 201, to $90.00: Magnolia No. 242, to $100.00: Reading
No. 254, to $90.00: King Solomon's No. 260, to $115.00: Pasadena No.
272, to $115.00: Mount Shasta No. 281, to $90.00.: Ontario No. 301,
to $75.00: Monrovia No. 308, to $100.00: Corona No. 324, to $115.00:
Consuelo No. 325, to $90.00: West Gate No. 335, to $175.00: Turlock
No. 395, to $75.00: Lancaster No. 437, to $115.00: San Pasqual No.
452, to $115.00: Argonaut No. 461, to $115.00: Seaside No. 504, to
$125.00: Vermont Square No. 515, to $100.00: Triangle No. 548, to
$115.00: James Madison No. 572, to $100.00: Warren G. Harding No.
579, to $100.00: Carmelita No. 599, to $115.00: Canoga No. 611, to
$90.00: R. E. Dolley No. 616, to $100.00: Angeles Mesa No. 625, to
$125.00: Altadena No. 678, to $115.00: Polaris No. 730, to $100.00.
Decreasing fees: Plumas No. 60, to $75.00: Barstow No. 682, to
$65.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Jewel No. 374, at $10.00: Van Nuys No. 450,
at $10.00: Vermont Square No. 515, at $15.00: Sun Garden No. 530,
at $20.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Redlands No. 300: Ramona No. 457: Lincoln No. 4 70.
Increasing dues: Tehama No. 3, to $15.00: Mount Moriah No. 44,
to $15.00: Plumas No. 60, to $16.00: Henry Clay No. 95, to $16.00:
Vitruvius No. 145, to $15.00: Keystone No. 161, to $16.00: Silveyville
No. 201, to $15.00: Inyo No. 221, to $15.00: Alcatraz No. 244, to $15.00:
Pasadena No. 272, to $15.00: Redlands No. 300, to $15.00: Reedley
No. 304, to $15.00: Ashlar No. 306, to $15.00: Monrovia No. 308, to
$18.00: Hollywood No. 355 to $15.00: Balder No. 393, to $15.00:
A,pollo No. 396, to $15.00: Inglewood No. 421, to $15.00: Eagle Rocle
No. 422, to $15.00: Exeter No. 424, to $15.00: Lancaster No. 437, to
$15.00: Van Nuys No. 450, to $15.00: Bethlehem No. 453, to ·$18.00:
Alta Vista No. 464, to $18.00: Woodstock No. 491, to $16.00: Palms
No. 512, to $15.00: Cahuenga No. 513, to $15.00: Vermont Square No.
515, to $15.00: George Washington No. 525, to $15.00: Triangle No.
548, to $15.00: South Park No. 563, to $15.00: Fort Crook No. 575, to
$15.00: Rialto No. 582, to $15.00: Garden Grove No. 586, to $15.00:
Dimond No. 603, to $18.00: Crescenta Valley No. 652, to $16.00: Altadena No. 678, to $15.00: Orinda No. 704, to $15.00: Hunters Point
Naval No. 706, to $15.00: Magnolia Park No. 715, to $15.00: Polaris
No. 730, to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Molino No. 150: Harmony No.
164: Ferndale No. 193: San Miguel No. 285: Highland Park No. 382:
Blackmer No. 442: Bethlehem No. 453: Clarence F. Smith No. 482:
Fremont No. 497: Benjamin Franklin No. 509: Queen Beach No. 540:

RESOLUTioNS

Change of Meeting Place: Crescent No. 45: Guadalupe No. 237:
Hesperian No. 264: Los Gatos No. 292: Alta No. 333: Fruitvale
No. 336: Bethlehem No. 453: Fremont No. 497: Benjamin Franklin
No. 509: Euclid No. 519: Lakeshore No. 551: South Park No. 563:
West Adams Nb. 565: James A. Garfield No. 566: Fort Crook No. 575:
El Cajon Valley No. 576: Valley Forge No. 587: Sojourner No. 607:
Composite No. 639: Crescenta Valley No. 652: Canby Cross No. 679:
Redwood Empire No. 683: Albany No. 686: Indian Wells Valley No.
691: Orinda No. 704: Oasis of Mara No. 735: Oakwood U.D.; Mother
ColonyU.D.
Changing Annual Meeting to November: Howard No. 37: Drytown
No.174.
TRIAL RECORDS

No.

991-Petition for restoration. A member of Menorah Lodge No.
623. Expelled November 5, 1940.
No. 1007~Petition for restoration. A member of Sequoia Lodge No.
349. Expelled December 2, 1941.
No. 1040-Petition for restoration. A member of Menorah Lodge No.
623. Expelled September 5, 1944.
No. 104~Petition for restoration. A member of Union Lodge No. 58.
Expelled August 2, 1944.
No. 1269-Petition for restoration. A member of James Madison Lodge
No. 572. Expelled May 7, 1953.

129

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. 1273-Petition for restoration. A member of Rising Light Lodge
No. 397. Expelled December 4, 1951.
No. 1314-(Retria l). A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled February 7, 1955.
No. 1318-Petition for restoration. A member of Yount Lodge No. 12.
Suspended October 7, 1952.
No. 1319-(Retria l). A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expelled
.
September 6, 1955.
No.
Lodge
Burbank
of
member
A
restoration.
for
No. 1354-Petition
406. Expelled July 2, 1953.
No. 1374-Petition for restoration. A member of South Gate Lodge No.
320. Exipelled February 3, 1954.
No. 1375-(Retria l). A member of Wm. D. Stephens Lodge No. 698.
Acquitted September 6, 1955.
No. 1380--(Retria l). A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Expelled
Octdber 6, 1955.
No. 1383-(Retria l). A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Acquitted April 6, 1954.
No. 1391-(Retria l). An Entered Apprentice of El Sereno Lodge No.
588. Expelled July 6, 1954.
No. 1407-Petition for restoration. A mem·ber of Bixby Knol1s Lodge
No. 699. Expelled August 4, 1954.
No. 1413-A member of America Lodge No. 475. Suspended September
2, 1954.
No. 1414-A member of Vista Lodge No. 687. Expelled October 5,
1954.
member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Reprimand Sep1415-A
No.
tember 3, 1954.
No. 1416-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Reprimand September 3, 1954.
No. 1417-A member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. ExpeUed August 5,
1954.
No. 1418-A member of Durant Lodge No. 268. Expelled October 6,
1954.
No. 1419-A mem ber of Center Lodge No. 465. Expelled November
3, 1954.
member of Lakeshore Lodge No. 551. Suspended Novem1420--A
No.
ber 3, 1954.
No. 1421-A member of San Mateo Lodge No. .226. Expelled Novem..
ber 4, 1954.
No. 1422-A member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166. Expelled December l, 1954.

No. 1423-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Suspended December 1, 1954.
No. 1424-A memlber of All States Lodge No. 593. Expelled November 1, 1954.
No. 1425-An Entered Apprentice of Compass Lodge No. 590. Expelled Decemher 3, 1954.
No. 1426-A member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382. Expelled
December 2, 1954.
No. 1427-A member of Orinda Lodge No. 704. Expelled December
7, 1954.
No. 1428-A member of Mountain View Lodge No. 194. Acquitted
November 2, 1954.
No. 1429-A mem'b er of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled December 6, 1954.
mem.ber of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled Oc1430--A
No.
tober 4, 1954.
No. 1431-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Suspended Janu- .
ary 4, 1955.
No. 1432-A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Expelled November 4,
1954.
No. 1433-A member of Eden Lodge No. 113. Acquitted December
1. 1954.
No. 1434-A member of Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482. Acquitted
February 4, 1955.
No. 1435-A member of Harbor Lodge No. 502. Reprimanded February 7, 1955.
No. 1.4 36-A. memlber of Montebello Lodge No. 451. Expelled February 1, 1955.
No. 1437-(See trial record No. 1314).
No. 1438-A member of East San Diego Lodge No: 561. Suspended
January 6, 1955.
No. 1439-A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351. Expelled February
7, 1955.
No. 1440--A member of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Suspended
March 1, 1955.
No. 1441-A member of Durant Lodge No. 268. Expelled December
1, 1954.
No. 1442-A member of San Pasqual Lodge No. 452. Reprimand
April 4, 1955.
No. 1443-A member of McKinley Lodge No. 347. Expelled March
.
3, 1955.
Reprimand April
167.
No.
Lodge
No. 1444-A member of Alameda
6, 1955.
No. 1445-A mem·ber of Southern California Lodge No. 278. Expelled
· April 6, 1955.

128

1

130

PftOCEEDINGS OP THE

No. 1446-A member of Plymouth Lod.ge No. 560. Suspended April
7, 1955.
.
No. 1447_..A member of Florence Lodge No. 649. Acquitted April 7,
1955.
No. 1448-A member of Naval Lodge No. 87.
No. 1449-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled April 1,
1955.
No. 1450-A member of Doric Lodge No. 216. Expelled April 4, 1955.
No. 1451-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled May 5,
1955.
.
No. 1452-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled May 6,
1955.
No. 1453-A member of Hesperian Lodge No. 264. Acquitted June 2,
1955.
No. 1454-A Fellow Craft of Gardena Lodge No. 372. Expelled June
7, 1955.
No. 1455-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Suspended June 1,
1955.
No. 1456-A member of Sincerity Lodge No. 132. Expelled June 10,
1955.
No. 1457-A member of La Habra Lodge No. 659. Acquitted July 6,
1955.
No. 1458-A Fellow Craft of San Diego ·Lodge No. 35. Expelled July 1,
1955.
No. 1459-A member of James A. Foshay Lodge No. 641. Suspended
July 11, 1955.
No. 1460-A mem·ber of Plumas Lodge No. 60. Expelled May 9, 1955.
No. 1461-A member of Victorville Lodge No. 634. Acquitted July 6,
1955.
No. 1462-Membe rs of Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517. Acquitted July
1, 1955.
No. 1463-A member of Lynwood Lodge No. 600. Suspended August
l, 1955.
No. 1464-A memlber of Glassell Park Lodge No. 605. Acquitted
August 2, 1955.
No. 1465-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Reprimand
August 4, 1955.
No. 1466-A member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625. Expelled Septemlber 6, 1955.
No. 1467-A member of Forbestown Lodge No. 50. Suspended September 3, 1955.
No. 1468-A member of San Ramon Valley Lodge No. 724. Expelled
September 12, 1955. ·
No. 1469-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Expelled October 5. 19.55.

131

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FIFTY YEAR BlITTONS
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Aaron, Leopold, Fidelity Lodge No. 120............................... ................. September 15, 1904
Ackerman, Frank Buffum, Howard Lodge No. 37................................ Decemher 1, 1904
Altvater, Edward Louis, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.................... December 12, 1904
Ambrose, Frank Fielder, East Gate Lodge No. 290.............................. 0ctober 28, 1904
Anderson, Daniel G., Apollo Lodge No. 396........................................ June 20, 1905
Anderson, Edward Walter, Mission Lodge No. 169............................ 0ctober 19, 1904
Anderson, John B., Athens Lodge No. 228.............................................. December 3, 1904
Anderson, William Faulkner, Wilmington Lodge No. 198..............-0ctober 12, 1904
Andresen, Julius, Pacific Lodge No. 136................................................ May 20, 1902
Andrews, amuel Edward, Ashlar Lodge No. 306................................ January 14, 1904
Archer, Albert S~yres, California Lodge No. 1.................................... March 12, 1903
Arons, Morris, West Gate Lodge No. 335............................................ July 28, 1904
Bailey, Rex Earl, Delano Lodge No. 309............................... ............... August 19, 1905
Baker, Bayard Taylor, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241... ............................. March 14.1905
Baker, Caryhanna, Pajaro Lodge No. 110.............................................. December 10, 1904
Baker, Harry Walcot, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8...................................... uary 21. 1905
Baker, John Jay, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346............................................ une 27, 1905
Baldwin, Albert Kilburn, All States Lodge No. 593.............................. une, 1905
Ball, Cleggett Minor, Van Nuys Lodge No. 450......................... ......... ay 17, 1904
Barr, Robert Joseph, Arcata Lodge No. 106.......................................... December 16, 1904
Barstow, William Addison, Willow Glen Lodge No. 676...............-July 15. 1905
Bartcher, August Henry, Richmond Lodge No. 375 .........................-.DeC:ember 1, 1904
Basham, Robert M., Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302·-··-··-··················-May 7, 1903
Bassen. William, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30........................................ 1903
Bathey, Herbert Theodore, Golden State Lodge No. 358 .................... May 26, 1905
Battey, Walter Raymond, Wilshire Lodg~ No. 445............................ April 22, 1905
Bebb, Joseph Crispia, Occidental Lodge No. 22.................................... Nov. 7, 1904
Becsey, Edmond, Occidental Lodge No. 22 .......................................... November 21, 1904
Bell, George Handley, Redwood City Lodge No. 168.......................... August 8, 1902
Benson, Frank Henry, San Jose Lodge No. 10...................................... December 12, 1904
Blackman, Harold Stabler, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.......................... November 19, 1904
Blackstock, Charles Fidelis, Oxnard Lodge No. 341... ......................... April 22, 1905
Block, Archibald Ira, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.....- ................... April 15, 1905
Bloss, George Stone, Yosemite f..odge No. 99...........- ........................... May 2, 1905
Blumenthal, Sello Julius, Doric Lodge No. 216-.................................. June 23, 1904
Bonham, Walter Richard, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346............................ September 6, 1904
Boone, William Arthur, Alpha Lodge No. 431...................................... June 5, 1905
Brace, Herbert Edward, San Francisco Lodge No. 360......................-April 8, 1905
Bradner, James Perry, Richmond Lodge No. 375................................ January 8, 1904
Bray, Walter Garfield, San Francisco Lodge No. 360.......................... March 21, 1905
Brewster, Charles Lindsey, Tehachapi Lodge No. 313........................ November 14, 1903
Brodin, Oscar J.. Moneta Lodge No. 405................................................ November 25, 1904
Bullock, Russ Ransom, Occidental Lodge No. 22............................:..... November 26, 1904
Burbank, Gideon Webster, Friendship Lodge No. 210........................ May 11, 1905
Burgum, Harry Pitkin, Salinas Lodge No. 204.................................... May 18, 1905
Campbell, Archibald Hamilton, McKinley Lodge No. 347.................. June 8, 1905
Campbell, Arthur, Unity Lodge No. 368.......- ....................................... September 9, 1905
Cantin, Alexander Aimwell, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30.................... May 31, 1904
Carswell, William Ross, Piedmont Lodge No. 521.............................. May 9, 1905
Chamberlain, Newell Day, Mariposa Lodge No. 24............................ November 18, 1904
Chandler, James H .. Alpha Lodge No. 431................._......................... February 18, 1905
Chaquette, Camille Adams, California Lodge No. 1............................ May 18, 1905
Chase, Ralph Arthur, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367........................ July 4, 1904
Chesworth, Joseph Reginald, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367............ Deeember 12, 1904
Childs, Edmund Henry, Crescent Lodge No. 45---··········-··········June 4, 1895
Churchwell, Rufus C., Phoenix Lodge No. 17L..-....··-----····--- May 28, 1904

ff

132

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Clapp, Victor, East Gate Lodge No. 29CL----.............- ..---···-····-·May 26, 1905
Clark, James Riley, Elysian Lodge No. •U8--·-·········--·····--···----·-······November 10, 1904
Clark. Omer Chester, East San Diego Lodge No. 561.......................... January 5, 1905
Clasen. Otto August, Delano Lodge No. 30CJ.-.................................... October, 1905
Coggins, Raymond Boynton, Justice Lodge No. 549.................- ........• November 25, 1904
Colby, Earl Alvin, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206... _,,_............................... March 9, 1905
Coombs, Nathan Foster, Yount Lodge No. 12-..--------·--···--·..-···May, 1904
Copier., Dwight F., El Sereno Lodge No. 588...................................... September 28, 1904
Covel, William Alason, Consuelo Lodge No. 325................................ May 5, 1905
Coverston. Thomas W., San Bernardino Lodge No. 348.................... August 19, 1904
Crager, Fredrick Harvey, Service Lodge No. 594.---·-···.......-.~rll 11, 1905
Creelman, Irvine Mackenzie, Pactftc Grove Lodge No. 331...........- ... April 20, 1905
Crowder, Clifford Lee, Chico Lodge No. 111-...............- ..............- ... August 26, 1905
Culbertson, John, Phoenix Lodge No. 178...- -..................................... January 30, 1905
Curtis, Frederick Charles, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.............................. May 12, 1905
Dailey, Elmer J., John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657............................ March 7, 1905
Dakin, Clarence Casebolt, Reading Lodge No. 25.f..- ..- .................... August 12, 1904
Dakin, Frederick Holyrod, Durant Lodge No. 268.............................. September 20, 1904
Dando, Albert Bruce Coates, Ocean Park Lodge No. 369.................. April 17, 1902
Davis, Arthur C., Pajaro Lodge No. 11<>--- - - · - - · - - - · September 16, 1903
Dean, Frank Roger, Center Lodge No. 465 ............................................ August 28, 1905
Dearmond, Roy, Caledonia Lodge No. 486............................................ May 6, 1905
deBretteville, P.A., Oriental Lodge No. 144........................................ Decemher 29, 1904
Dodd, Robert William, Mission Lodge No. 169.................................... August 20, 1904
Dore, Emile, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260........................................ March 20, 1905
Dorman, H. 0., Selma Lodge No. 277.................................................... December 17, 1904
Douglas, James Edmund Leslie, Brentwood Lodge No. 345............_.. Auguat 20, 1904
Dreher, Edward Ludwig, Claremont Lodge No. 436............................ January 26, 1905
Dresser, Walter Henry, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366............................ March 15, 1902
Drum, William Pierpont, Durant Lodge No. 268.................................. Decemher 20, 1902
Duncan, ~obert James, Tujunga Lodije No. 592..................------·····June 30, 1904
Dunn. Irvmg. Three Pillars Lodge No. 613...................- ..........- ....-May 31, 1905
Dye, James E., Amador Lodge No. 65.........................................- ....... March 20, 1900
East, Arthur, California Lodge No. l.,.__ .. ____ ......................- .... January 25, 1905
Eastman, Gustave M., Chowchilla Lodge No• .f85..____ ,,,....- ......... ~ri115, 1905
Elfendahl, Victor H., Oriental Lodge No. H4..........................- ....-...-December 29, 1904
Elkinton, Jacob Henry, Sequoia Lodge No. ~..--------·;........- ... May 29, 1905
Erickson, Andrew Lawrence, Los Gatos Lodge No. 292.............,_..,_December 1, 1904
Eudey, Alexander, Amador Lodge No. 65___ ,,,,,. ..- ........... _............. February 25, 1902
Fetzer, Albert John, Trinity Lodge No. 27____..._,,, ____...........- .•. 0cllelber 8, 1904
Filley, Wilbur Jay, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367............................ February 18, 1902
Fi.Dkeldey, Edward John, Oakland Lodge No. 188................................ January 28, 1905
Finkeldey, William Henry, Oakland Lodge No. 188.______ September 23, 1904
Fisch, Fred. Solano Lodge No. 229........................................................ December 12, 1904
Fishel, David, Doric Lodge No. 216·--····-· --............... September 29, 1904
Ford, Emery W., Adin Lodge No. 250-...........................- ..---·-···-1903
Forgy, Elmer, Bakersfteld Lodge No. 22.f......- ........- .............----.... April 15, 1905
Fountain, Clarence A .. Mill Valley Lodge No. 356------·----AU9 ual 8, 1905
Frank, Arthur Henry, Crockett Lodg_e No. 139_ _ _..______ No\tember 19, 1904
Frederick. Clarence john, Live Oak Lodge No. 61-...................._ ... April 20, 1905
Freeland, Joseph Langton, Long Beach Lodge No. 327......................_Pebruary 22, 1905
Freeman, George Richard, Laurel Lodge No. 2.f5-....-·-··--·--------AJ>ri11S: 1905
Galbreth, R. Morgan, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319................................ September 20, 1904
Garcia, Manuel Ro11.er, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356.............................. June 5, 1905
Garibaldi, William Joseph, Live Oak Lodge No. 61............................ May 12, 1905
Geiger, John Henry, Tehama Lodge No. j ____...- ...- -............ December 22, 1904
Geillendorfer, Henry Albert, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. .f78............ November 19, 1904

NAME AND LODGE

133
DATE OP RAISING

Gentis. William Ira, Alcatraz Loc111..e ~o. 2-f.f _______ ............................. August 17, 1905
Gillmore, David Todd, Los Gatos Lodge No. 292................................ ~une 22, 1905
Givens, Thomas Trift, Yosemite Lodge No. 99...........................- ....... une 20, 1905
Goetze, William Adolph, Trinity Lodge No. 27.._ ........................... _ ebruarv 11. 1905
Gomersal, Fergus, Presidio Lod.9e No. 354.. ____,,_.........................._.August 10. 1905
Good. Carl Edward, Live Oak Lodge No. 61_·-······-··--......_ .. ___ May 19, 1905
Goodwin, Frank Halsey, Alcatraz Lodge No. 2-f.f..............- ......- •.-.September 14, 1905
Goodyear, John Murray, Buckeye Lodge No. 195................................ July 15, 1905
Grady, Stuart, Silveyville Lodge No. 201........... :.................................. April l, 1905
Graff, Frederick, Naval Lodge No. 87.................................................... December 22, 1904
Graham, Hercules H .. Vermont Square Lodge No. 515 ...................... June 3, 1905
Grant, Adam Lucas, Paso Robles Lodge No. 286.................................. May 2.f, 1905
Green, Abram, King David's Lodge No. 209.......................................... March 22. 1905
Greene, Samuel Hartley, Live Oak Lodge No. 61................................ December 9, 1904
Griffin, Joseph Raines, Buckeye Lodge No. 195.-................................ 0ctcber 21, 1904
Griswold, Lee Swaney, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.............................. _.. September 29, 1905
Gunn, George Ludas, Yount Lodge No. 12..........._.........................-February 19, 1904
Hagle, Claude, Long Beach Lodqe ~o. 327·----·-····-....- ..................... Mardt 7, 1905
Hall, Arthur Frederick, Corona Lodge No. 32.f....... _......................._May H, 1904
Hall, Frank Delmer, Excelsior Lodge No. 166...................................... 0ctober 19, 1904
Hallett, William Hovey, East Gate Lodge No. 290............................ June 6, 1905
Hammond, Arthur F., Hanford Lodge No. 279...................................... December 17, 1904
Hanna, Arch Frank, Ferndale Lodge No. 193....- ...............- ................. June 27, 1904
Hanna, Wilson Creal, Ashlar Lodge No. 306......................................-April 6, 1905
Hanscom, Allan Raymond, Burlingame Lodge No. 400........................ December 5, 1904
Hansen, Jens Christian, Eden Lodge No. 113...- ..- ............................... March 18, 1905
Haseltine, Warren Edmond, Carquinez Lodge No. 337...................... December 21, 190.f
Heinzmann, Wilhelm Herrmann. Mount Moriah Lodge No• .f.f.......... September 10, 1904
Herbst, Herschel H .. Fidelity Lodge No. 120-..........- ...................... January 25, 1905
Hess, Philip Henry, Live Oak Lodge No. 61........................................ Pebruary 17, 1905
Heth, Thomas F., Azusa Lodge No. 305................................................ November4, 1904
Hibbard, Edmond B., Tuolumne Lodge No. 8...................................... April 'Tl, 1905
Hjul, Christian Hcmsen. Mount Moriah Lodge No• .f.f....- .............._.April 26, 1905
Hobro, Alfred Watson, Presidio Lodge No. 35.f.__ ............................ May 18, 1905
Hoffer, John B., Santa Lucia Lodg_e No. 302---··---·-··........................... March 2.f, 1905
Hopkins, William Hewes, Three Pillars Lodge No. 613................ ____ December 30, 1904
Horwitz, Charles H., Stanislaus Lodge No. 206_.................................. November 12, 1904
Howard, Frank Evans, Delano Lodge No. 309.................................. _April 14, 1904
Hubbard, Edward D .. Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.-................... _April 15, 1891
Hudspeth, Charles Ernest, Sequoia Lodge No. ~.............................. May 16, 1904
Hyman, Abe, Fidelity Lodge No. 120_____.........;..•._..,_..___ Juai 15, 1905
Ingle, Elbert Quinc;ey, Fruitvale Lockie No. 336................ ______ Man:b .f, 1905
lrVine, Ben Over, All States Lodge N"o. 593--...................................... 0ctober 5, 1903
Irwin. Fred, I(Uauea Lodge No. 330........................................................ July, 1902
ackson, Frederick "C", Friendship Lodge No. 210_........_, __ ,,_.....-0ctober 27, 1904
acobs, Gordon Morse, Howard Lodge No. 37...................................... April 8, 1905
ennings, Robert, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38.......................................... August 19, 1905
ensen, George Charles, Provident Lodge No. 609................................ July 24. 1905
ohnson, Charles Henry, Table Mountain Lodge No. 12.f________ Novemher 19, 1904
ones, Ray Everett, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8.......................................... December 12, 1903
ones, William Wood, San Fernando Lodge No. 343.......................... ~e 18, 1901
oy, Ra Comfort, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291.................................... une 22, 1905
udell, frmil, Doric Lodge No. 216·-·-------·-·-·······.. ·-·····-···············
y 25, 1905
ustus, Carl Alonzo, Richmond Lodge No. 375-...--..---·-·-··---·-Deeember 11, 1903

134

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATB OP RAISING

~r· Jc;:ph H .• Oakdale Lodge No. 275-···-·-·"···········-·····-·· December 6, 1904
Ke er, J y VickerA, Marin LOdroNo. 191-...·-·················-·············-July 19, 1905
dge No. 528-···········-···················November 27, 1902
endall, a.mes S., everly HUis
Kennedy, Benjamin Frank, Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458-.........•.-July 22, 1905
Kilpatrick, Alexander Frank, Winnedumah Lodge No. 287--·····-·-- March 4, 1905
~irk, Wi~am Robert. Oakland Lodge No. 188......- .......................... _May 13, 1905
itchen, L enry Burton, Pajaro Lodge No. 110.................................... March 11. 1905
Klumpp, ouls Frederick, Eureka Lodge No. 16.................................. June 29, 1905
KnausA Edward, Vesper Lodge No. 84.................................................. 0ctober 29, 1904
~och, Albolph C .• Tyre Lodge U. D ....................................................... February 1. 1902
ert, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.................................................... ~une 29, 1905
Korn,
&slowskr· Hen'.J. Robert, Truth Lodge No. 628 ................................ une 2, 1905
K eJ:1ef~i°hn A am, Sr., Redondo Lodge No. 328.............................. ecember 15, 1904
John. Arcata Lodye No. 106............................................ December 12, 1904
~e •
leger, harles Mathew, Exce sior Lodge No. 166............................ April 20, 1904

c!us

rngci!ohn Michael, San Marino Lodge No. 685••.•...•.....••...•..- ....•...... November 4, 1902
r.:pi ire, Harry, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.............................................. May 27, 1905
Lasseoln~ Leonce Francois, Fortitude Lodge No. 624....--··············-.. March 9, 1905
L thrn. Cnry Christian, Oak Grove Lod(le No. 215•••----·---- February 23, 1905
op, A harles Leonard, California Locfge No. 1-··-·-················-···September 22, 1904
L avltt, Rubrey Maurice, Elk Grove Lodge No. 173.......................... April 1, 1905
r,!g~te, obert R., Rising Light Lod~o. 397............................... _.March 7, 1902
1ge No. 349.......................... August 4, 1904
Birney Alexander, Sequoia
L n
r,!vy, S ~ ewls, West Gate Lodge No. 335........................................ October 6, 1904
vy, i ey, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.................................................... May 2, 1905
Lillie, Charles Franklin, Lodi Lodge No. 256..__·---·-·---··-·-·-0ctober 20, 1904
Elntrfel~arl E. H., S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574.•... _ ......•......_ March 5, 1904
dley, Clacence F. Smith Lodge No. 482............................ August. 1900
Lin ey,
Lippman, BGnard Bear, San Pedro Lodge No. 332.............................. May 19, 1905
Livingston, eor~, Fremont Lodge No. 497........................................ June 14, 1904
Llvings~n, John lexander, Gold Hill Lodge No. 32.......................... une 17, 1905
ocrby, Hederlck Augustus, Forest Lodge No. 66........·-····--············-· une 24, 1905
~ er, ugo Milton, Apollo ~e No.196....-····-····-····--··········- February 23, 1905
we, Camille Danton, Fresno ~ge No. 247................................... _ November 6, 1903
Lyman, Harry Lynn, Temescal Lodge No. 3H.••.............._..........._ .. Aaguat 24, 1905

r,!

L'

~c~Pirer, Birdsall Allen, Piedmont Lodge No. 521.......................... February 24, 1903
M~e aw· Geor~t B., Mendocino Lodge No. 179.............................. December 17, 1904

M Dy, Id. illiam enry, McKinley Lodge_ No; 347•............................. November 17, 1904
M cE ona Byron Dewitt, Amity Lodge No. 370.................................. July 22, 1905
McKlligh!t, JThes P .• Mariposa Lodge No. 24______ ........................ becember 8, 1904
McK ~g nCh omas Francis, Sun Garden Lod_ge No. 530..............._. May 30, 1905
27, 1905
arles ~gelo, Berkeley Lodge No. 363..........................
McIG vft,
M~ Pugh Nathaniel, San Diego Lodge No. 35.............................. uly 7, 1905
• ercy L., Needles Lodge No. 326...........- .............................. September 10, 1904

January

MacArthur, Wesley Hudson, Atascadero Lodge No. 493.................... April 22, 1905
MacDonald, Arthur Thomas, Sequoia Lodge No. 349........................ January 23, 1905
MacQuarrie, Gordon, San Jose Lodge No. 10........................................ April 19, 1904
Madden. Jesse R., Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 ........................................ May 30, 1905
~aehn, ~IHam Julius, Sacramento Lodge No. ~-······-·-··-·--·-...-September 23, 1904
·--··-·--···........_February 10, 1905
andahl, arl Gustav, Arcata Lodge No. 106
Mann, James Monroe, Richmond Lodge No. 375.................................. August 12, 1904
Marshall, Amos Hiram, Reading Lodge No. 254.................................. March 31, 1905
Martin, James Edwin, West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373................ August 26, 1904
Martin, Joseph Santana, McKinley Lodge No. 347............................ June 15, 1905
Marv·in, Frank Freeman, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57............................ April 15, 1905
Maynard, Otis D., Palestine Lodge No. 351.......................................... 0::tcberS, 1904
Mebsner, George Lafayette, Lodi Lodge No. 256..•......•....•••..•.....- ...•. November 16, 1899

NAME AND ·LODGE

135
DATB OP RAISING

Mentzer, Harry Taylor, Unity Lodqe No. 368...................................... AprU 18, 1905
Merner, Garfield David, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.............................. September 6, 1904
Metcalf, William Milton, Humboldt Lodge No. 79 .............................. November 29, 1904
Metzger, Edward Elos, Phoenix Lodge No. 178.................................. March 3, 1905
Miller, Austin Vicente, Ferndale Lodge No. 193.................................. February 6, 1904
Miller, George William, Golden State Lodge No. 358 ......- ...- ........... li°e 16, 1905
Miller, James Gibson, West Adams Lodge No. 565.............................. une 7, 1904
Milne, Francis Charles, Kit Carson Lodge No. 734.............................. ay 18, 1905
Mitchell, lrvin~efferson, University LOdge No. 394 .......................... June 14. 1904
rl, Greenleaf Lodge No. 670........................................ November 12, 1904
Moffett, Jesse
Moffett, Robert H .. Plymouth Lodge No. 560...................................... May 19, 1904
Mohr, Henry Cornelius, Oakland Lodge No. 188................................ November 26, 1904
Moore, Andrew Adam, Redlancb Lodge No. 300........................._....... June 17.1896
Mooser, Charles Edouard, La Parfalte Union Lodge No. 17...- ......... September 24, 1904
Mooser, William, Doric Lodge No. 216................................................ August 15, 1895
Morcom, Fred Nicholas, Presidio Lodge No. 354.................................. April 27, 1905
Mowder, Clyde Leroy, Wilshire Lodge No. 445.................................. December 20, 1904
Muir, Yeager Edward, Fairview Lodge No. 629 ..................................January 18, 1905
Murray, William Paul, Marin Lodge No. 191...................................... November 30, 1904
Neff. My;;on Dilbert, Oakland Lodge No. 188...................................... February 25, 1905
Nelson, emhardt, Fullerton Lodge No. 339........................................ May 4, 1904
Nelson. William Christian, San Francisco Lodqe_ No. 360.................. February 14, 1905
Nevraumont, Ernest, La Parfalte Union Lodge No. 17........................ June 16, 1905
Nichols, William "J", Santa Monica Lodge No. 307...............- ...•...... September 20, 1905 ·
Niehaus, Edward Ernest. Durant Lodge No. 268.................................. lune 10, 1904
Noack, Harry Richard, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.................................. anuary 27, 1905
Nonnenmann. LeWis, South San Francisco Lodge No. 212.................. une 22, 1905
Nyrop, David Frank, Provident Lodge No. 609 .................................... April 26, 1905
Oliver, Henry Andrew, Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243............................ April 29, 1905
-October 27, 1904
Ormand. John Allyne, California Lodge No. 1
Orr, John Allred, Smyrna Lodge No. 532 .............................................. July 1. 1904
Outhier, Clyde Bruce, Salinas Lodge No. 204...................................... November 18, 1904
Owens, Walter R.. Palestine Lodge No. 351... ..................................... January 30, 1905
Page, ZUia Edwin. Lindsa$ Lodge No. 416............................................ August 25. 1904
Pageler, iohn Charles, El ereno Lodge No. 588 .................................. February 22, 1905
Painter, red Lawrence, Mldway_Lodge No. 426................................ September 3, 1905
Park, George, McKinley Lodge No. 347................................................ January 26, 1905
Parks, Rollie River, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30.................................... ,!.j)rtl 1, 1905
Parmele, Lucius A •• Pasadena Lodge No. 272...................................... March H. 1905
Patterson, Geor9f Wesley, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8............................ ~pril 21, 1905
Patton, Luther, emescal Lodge No. 314 .............................................. May 18, 1905
Paxton. Clyde S .• Redlands Lodqe No. 300.......................................... March 31, 1904
Payne, Herbert Smith, Wilshire Lodge No. 445 .................................. August 31, 1903
Perry, Oliver Hazard, Galt Lodge No. 267............................................ ~une 1. 1905
Perryman, Frederick William. Apollo Lodge No. 396.......................... une 29, 1905
Peterson, Andrew Jacklion, Mission Lodge No. 169............................ ecember 3, 1904
Petit. Albert Cla~on, Oxnard ~_ge No. 341... ................................... June 10, 1905
., Ojai Lodge No. 663.----·-----Novem ber 5, 1904
PhUlips, Milton
Pitner, Cron B.. Mendocino Lodge No. 179.......................................... March 18, 1905
Polle, James K., Oriental Lodge No. 144................................................ March 20, 1905
Potter, Rollins M., Phoenix Lodge No. 178.......................................... April 24, 1905
Price. Thomas, Elmhurst Lodge No. 610................................................ May 4, 1905
Proudfoot. Frederick M., Corona Lodge No. 324................................ June 15, 1905
t!;UI• Leon Prands, Corona ~e No. 324.........- ............- ......... December 22, 1904
-··-···-·······-·········-········---··-·····Jun e 29, 1905
No.
Reel~· Jublltt
Jame1, Live ak Lodge No. 61......•.•..••.•..•·-···········-··-·April 20, 1905

Lod8

136

NAMB AND LODGE

137

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCJ!EDINGS OF THE
DATB OP RAISING

Reed, Henry, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30........·-································--June 20, 1905
Reese, Arthur W., Burbank Lodge No. 406.......................................... September 7, 1897
Reynolds, Francis Edward, San Francisco Lodge No. 360.................. April 8, 1905
Rich, Ellsworth Lincoln, Pajaro Lodge No. 110.................................... Mart'h 31, 1904
Richards, Charles A., Palestine Lodge No. 351...... ·-····-······-············· February 22, 1905
Richardson, Pearl C., Humboldt Lodge No. 79.................................... June 5, 1905
Richmond, Geor~e Andrew, San Jose Lodge No. 10............................ March 27, 1905
Rimel, Eclly A., anta Ana Lodge No. 241............................................ 0ctober 28, 1904
Robertson, George, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30.................................... June 20, 1905
Robertson, Robert, Gardena Lodge No. 372.......................................... June 6, 1905
Rodney, Hiram Ault, Carquinez Lodge No. 337_·-····-···-···-·····-······November 19, 1904
Roebke, Fred Carl, Jr., Oriental Lodge No. 144................................ _.. August 9, 190t
Roendahl, Carl, Maui Lodge No. 472............. ·-···························-····· March 13, 1905
Rohrer, Lohn Charles, Yount Lodge No. 12............................................ January 23, 1900
Rose, C arles William, Golden State Lodge No. 358.......................... May 4, 1905
Rucker, William Walter, Friendship Lodge No. 210.......................... March 23, 1905 ·
Ryan, Edmund D., San Bernardino Lodge No. 348•••.·-·········-···--··-Auguat 10, 1905
Sackett, Joseph David, Artesia Lodge No. 377...·-······-·-····-········-··November 1, 1904
Sanborn, Hugh Montgomery, Arcadia Lodge No. 547______ .... May 12, 1905
Sanches, Gardner Gilman, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30...---·········---Tune 13, 1905
Sawyers, Frank Edward, Chico Lodge No. 111........----··--·······---May 27, 1905
Schaad, Clarence Au~ust, Laurel Lodge No. MS.•••....•..·---········ May 5, 1905
Scharff, Isaac Clare, Doric Lodge No. 216............................................ March 23, 19M
Schmidt, Mads J., Elmhurst Lodge No. 610............................................ April 28, 1905
Scofield, Reginald, Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76................................ January 16, 1905
Scoggins, Clarence Noah, Landmark Lodge No. 253__________ November 19, 1904
Scott, Harry Sweet, California Lodge No. 1.......................................... February 27, 1896
Seavey, Ralph Eastman, S~oia Lodge No. W--··-···-------November 14, 1904
Seelig, George, Oriental Lodge No. 144................................................ November 29, 1904
Shafer, Henry Leroy, Yucaipa Lodge No. 726.................................... April 27, 1905
Shaver, Raymond Isaac, Marin Lod.sie No. 191.................................... March 29, 1905
Sheffer, Clarence Edmond, John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669..·-·-···-···November 19. 1904
Shepard, Samuel Philo, Yount Lodge No. 12........................................ August 8, 1905
Smith, Arthur Lee, Wilshire Lodg_e No. 445.......................................... April 24, 1902
Smith, Delos Herbert, Oakwood Lodge U D·-·- ··-·········-··················April 4, 1896
Smith, Howard Murray, Durant Lodge No. 268.·-··---·-·······-··---June 24, 1904
Smith, James S.. Seaside Lod~e No. 504-·····--·-·-----·····-···· April 18, 1905
Smith, Martin Luther, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 36.................................. June 12, 1905
Smith, Ralph Elbridge, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206.....................- ......... becember 20, 1902
Snow, Wilfred Manhattan, San Bernardino Lodge No. 348................ April l, 1905
Soderberg, Carl Frederick, Oakland Lodge No. 18L.................. - ..... July 29, 1905
Solari, Frank Nicolas, Hornitos Lodge No. 98...............................- ... August 16, 1905
Spencer, Allan Thomas, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.............................. ,1\.pril 15, 1905
Spencer, Earl B., Corona Lodge No. 324...................·-··········-·············March 31, 1905
Steacy, Edwin George, Lodi Lodge No. 256..............·-······················-· June 29, 1905
Steller, Louis Palmer, Suisun Lodge No. 55.......................................... June 28, 1905
Stenhouse, James, Ocean Park Lodge No. 36!L..- - - - · · - -.• November 4, 1904
Stewart, Edgar V., Sr., Loyalty Lodge No. 529.. - .............................. November 3, 1904
Stilgebouer, Edward B., Vista Lodge No. 687.....................- ............... May 17, 1905
Stipp, Logan. Marin Lodge No. 191...................................................... March 22, 1905
Story, James Augustus, Lafayette Lodge No. 126................................ April 8, 1905
Stratford, Chester Grant, Vermont Square Lodge No. 515................ August 5, 1904
Strouse, Edward Eugene, Natoma Lodge No. 64.................................. April 11, 1905
Stubbs, Will Lough, Sojourner Lodge No. 607.................................... April 9, 1904
Swanson, Charles, Oakland Lodge No. 188................................... _..... April 23, 190t
Tamagnl, Charles. Calistoga Lodge No. 233.....·-·······-·····--·····-···-,l\.pril 22, 1905
Taylor, Charles Neilson, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215••..•...•....••______ Marcli 23, 1905
Taylor, Jamea B., Charter Rock Lodge No. 410--··-······--···-··---April 28, 1905

NAME AND LODGB

DATB OP RAISING

Taylor, Raymond G., Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319---·····-········-·---·Feb~ 21, 1898
Teach, Charles Elden, King_David's Lodge No. 209•••...•·-····-····-··-·May 27, 1905
Terwilliger, Per~ Snow, Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448..·-···-·-·······May 12, 1905
Theodore, John T., Janesville Lodg~ No. 232.............·-·-····-·-·-----February 18, 1905
Therkof, George Afexander, Mosaic: Lodge No. 218·-··-···---February 18, 1905
Thompson, Charles Francis. Reading Lodge No. 254.·--··-···--·Marcb 30, 1905
Tilton, Charles Sewall, San Fernando Lodge No. 3of3 __________ Qctober 12, 1903
Tingley, Charles Herbert, Jubilee Lodge No. 604....·-··-················-···March 30, 19M
Todd, Elmer Earl, Three Pillars Lodge No. 613.·---·········-·····-··-~--November 10, 1904
Toomay, John Barron, Wasco Lodge No. 583...................................... November 10, 1904
Tretzel, Fredrick William, Mosaic Lodge No. 218................·-····----December 3, 19M
Trousdale, Otto J.. Sequoia Lodge No. 349 .......................................... March 27, 1905
Tulley, William Curtis, Tuscan Lodge No. 261--·····-·--··----May 12, 1905
Turbett, John Smith, Oxnard Lodge No. 341--·····----···-··--Decembe r 10, 190t
Van Prooyen, Cornelius, Pinole Lodge_ No. 353-·--·-·········-··---···-0ctober 18, 19M
Velsir, GUy Allen, Los Gatos Lodge No. 292....·-·-···········-······--·--April 19, 1901
Walker, Herman Otto, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336................................ June 17, 1905
Walker, Oliver Henry, Honolulu Lodge No. 409................................ 0ctober 26, 1904
Walker, Wilfred Wells, Riverbank Lodge No. 459....................... _ .... May 18, 1905
Ward, John Emmett, Occidental Lodge No. 22·-··-·-·······---··--···Marc:h 20, 1905
Waring, Gerald Ashley, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346....................._....... April 22, 1905
Way, Arad, Janesville Lodge No. 232..·--···········-······················-·····May 13, 1905
Weed, Clarence Hampton, Porterville Lodge No. 303.............._.....•-March 18, 1905
9, 1904
Weir, Robert John, Durant Lodge No. 268............................................
Weller, Charles Russell, Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361............................ ecember 6, 1904
Weller, Horace Aaron, Fort Bragg_Lodge No. 361... ................... - .... February 14, 1905
West, James, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30............................... _............. March 25, 1905
Wetmore, Wade Lyndon, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215... _................... June 30, 1905
Wheeler, John Hiaro, Arcadia Lodge No. 547...................................... November 28, 1902
White, Burchard Cole, Durant Lodge No. 268...................................... September 26, 1904
White, Edgar Austin, Blackmer Lodge No. 442.................................. March 25, 1904
White, William Thornton, Live Oak Lodge No. 61._____________ December 16, 1904
Whiting, Frederick James, Plymouth Lodge No. 560_ _ _ _ _ 1903
Whiting, Sanford Reynolds, Larchmont Lodge No. 614................... _.December 1, 1903
Wickman, Charles Edward, Bell Lodge No. 483.................................. November21, 1903
Wiese, J. G. H., Excelsior Lodge No. 166------·····----·-1905
Willi, John David, San Jose Lodge No. 10............................................ November 21, 1904
Williams, John Jones, Alcatraz Lodge No. 2+4---··········:·--·-··---November 3, 1904
Williamson, Hazard Snowden, Park Lodge No. +49.·-·····-···-··---December 26, 1903
Wilson, Arthur David, Vesper Lodge No. 84...................................... February 24, 1905
Wilson, Hermon Fowler, Occidental Lodge No. 22.·-···-···················.}\pril 10, 1905
Wilson, Thomas, Tehama Lodge No. 3.......- ......................................... May 30, 1904
Wolff, William, Doric Lodge No. 216..- ..---·--··········-·········-········February 5, 1905
Wood, Homer Winfrey, Porterville Lodge No. 303..·-·-····-········-··-MaY 31, 1905
Woodruff, Walter Jonathan, Fullerton Lodge No. 339---····-·······:July 8, 1905
Worthy, Nathaniel. Durant Lodge No. 268----·-·····--·-······--·~···-··Deeember 31, 1892
Zerman, Archibald Napoleon, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241...---···'--··AuguSt 5, 1904

l)ly

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

138

139 .

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GREETINGS RECEIVED

By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge, F. & A.M.
of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary of
Masonic Homes of California.

Telegrams and messages of congratulations were received at diffue:nt times during the Communication from Past Grand Master Chester
H. Warlow: Grand Lodge of the State of Israel and the International
Order of Job's Daughters.
The Grand Secretary reported that by direction of the Grand Master he had forwarded telegrams to those Past Grand Masters of this
jurisdiction who had been prevented from attending the Communication.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEE S
OF THE MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Sixty-Third Annual Report for the year ending July 31, 1955, together with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes and the
flnandal reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met in Covina, California, on November 27,
1954, for the transaction of regular business and for the purpose of
organization. The election of Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Deputy Grand
Master, L. Harold Anderson, Senior Grand Warden, and Leo E. Anderson, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the Board and
on motion duly made, seconded and carried, they were elected members
of the Board.
President Wollenberg reported the reappointment of Arthur M.
Warren and Ralph Head for a term of three years each and on motion
duly made, seconded and carried, they were elected members of the
Board.
·
To ftll the vacancy created by the election of Leo E. Anderson to
the office of Junior Grand Warden the Grand Master announced the
appointment of Guy B. Mize for the unexpired term and on motion
duly made, seconded and carried he was elected a member of the Board.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Charles Albert Aclams..................19SS............................ Myron E. Smith
Charles M. Wollenherg ................ 1956...•......•-·······-··········Guy B. Mize
Arthur M. W arren.....••.........,.......1957.........•.......,..........•. Ralph H. Head
On motion duly made, seconded and carried, Charles M. Wollenberg was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Myron E. Smith was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge, F. & A.M.
of California, Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems is Treasurer of
Masonic Homes of California.

GENERAL

The Board urges all members of the Fraternity to read carefully the
reports of Superintendent James R. Eubanks of the Home for the Aged
at Decoto, and Superintendent Robert M. Henry of the Home for Children at Covina which are a part of this report.
. .
Two types or classes of Decoto admission problems ar.e ~1vmg your
Board of Trustees increasing concern. Our Rules of Adm1ss1on, for ~e
Decoto Home, adopted by the Grand Lodge many years ago, requ1~e
that applicants be (a) in financial need and ( b) am~ulatory, ~at. is,
able to take care of themselves and their rooms at th~ time of ad~1ss10~.
More and more cases are coming before us in which the applicant 1s
not entirely ambulatory. but is either a partial inval~d, requiring nursi~g
home care, or is an aged senile, requiring custodial or semi-custod1~l
care. Technically, under our Rules, neither of these classes of cases is
eligible for admission to Decoto.
NuRSING HoME CASES

Through the extension of Outside Relief we are endeavoring to provide for the partial invalids, whom we classify as the nursing home type
of cases. At the present time we have on Outside Relief seven who are
in nursing homes and seven who are residing with relatives or friends.
In cooperation with the Lodges, we are contributing ~o or meeting p~rt
or all of the cqst of such nursing home care-the aid extended being
limited to a maximum equivalent to the per capita cost of care at Decoto.
The suggestion has come to your Board tha~ ~ way be ~ound to
admit to Decoto such nursing home cases. Realizing that this would
require a revision of the Rules of Admission and an expansion of the
facilities at the Decoto Home, your Trustees are giving the p1'0blem and
its potential costs. careful study, investigation and analysis.
AGED SENILE CASES

Applications from the aged senile, who are neither dangerous to
themselves nor others, but who require custodial or semi-custodial care.
present our most difficult problem. In former years, such cases were
cared for largely by the State of California but, in recent years, the
State has adopted a policy ·placing upon the Counties total responsibility for these people. The Counties themselves are not equipped to meet
the problem, with the result that more applications of this type have
been coming to your Board.
We have met this ·problem partially but have been unable to under·
take a total solution. In the North Wing of the Decoto Home we have
added twenty-eight beds and arranged facilities and assigned personnel

140

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for the care of a limited number of such applicants. To meet the total
problem, however, would require a considerable enlargement of our
present hospital unit and a substantially higher overhead in the costs
of operation of the Home at Decoto.
As with the nursing home care problem, we are making an extensive
study of how best to care for the increasing number of the aged senile
who are turning to the Masonic Fraternity for help. At this time we
have no recommendations to submit, but desire only to acquaint the
Brethren with the problems before us.

CONSTRUCTION AT DECOTO

LETTER OF APPRECIATION

While your Board gives every attention to criticisms of any kind,
we sometimes think we do not pay sufficient attention to letters of appreciation of which a great many are received. The following letter
from Mrs. Peairs, admitted to the Home on February 11, 1935, is so
pleasing to us that we would like to share it with you.
Sky View Porch
August 26, 1955
Mr. Charles M. Wollenberg,
President, Board of Trustees
Dear Sir and Esteemed Friend:
Ever since I told you I would try to express in writing what I had
just said about our new North Wing and our wonderful porch (I like
porch bette~. tha~ sol~~ium) I ha~e tried to find a new word expressing
more than gratitude but my eighty-seven year old brain refuses to
coin a new word-so it must remain deep gratitude.
To have the consideration given us in this our life's afterglow when
our usefulness has faded with the sunset prompts feelings words cannot
express. After twenty years of happy service-now to sit and watch the
beauty of the clouds so near they tangle with the tree tops, 'and at night
the myriads of lights below dodging in and out, and all around up here
the silent, quiet stars.
In this beautiful place and the care which you provide so bountifully,
I feel we may have and know "The Peace of God that passeth understanding." So to you and all who have made this possible, my heartfelt
thanks.
And thank you, too, for our Mr. Eubanks; as I have known him so
well over the years, he has become to me the epitome of patience and
kindliness and a desire to increase the comfort and happiness of every
member of our Home.
So I thank you and bless you all.
Sincerely,
Lillian W. Peairs
441 North
Masonic Home

141

Much has been done this past year to improve the physical condition of our Home at Decoto.
Three old elevators have 1been replaced by three automatic Otis
elevators and these are now operating very satisfactorily.
The operating equipment for the north elevator has been raised in
order to enable that elevator to serve the fifth floor; this has added
to the convenience of the residents.
A large window at the intersection of the east and north wings on
the fourth Boor has been installed and a concrete deck at the north end
of the fourth floor has been covered and glassed in.
A dining room and a kitchen have been arranged in the north wing
of the fourth floor. This cares for 30 to 35 of the semi-invalid members
of the Home.
During the year a new well was bored and is now producing water
in excess of the Home's needs. It supplies water for our 95 head of
cattle and irrigates our orchard and five acres of alfalfa.
THE HOME AT COVINA

In the Home for Children at Covina a wonderful spirit prevails
among the children and the splendid staff responsible for their care.
Under the administration of Superintendent Robert M. Henry, the children are making excellent progress and every California Mason may
be justly proud of them.
Throughout the community, our children receive recognition for
good citizenshi,p, for scholarship, for leadership and for their participation in character building youth activities. Upon graduation they are,
with your help and inspiration, finding their way on into gainful and
useful occupations and becoming upstanding American citizens.
For increased efficiency of the staff at the Home, we have added to
the personnel an Assistant to the Superintendent, whose function it is
to aid and assist the Superintendent in the administration of the Home.
His presence is extending greatly the effectiveness of the Superintendent, the houseparents and the entire staff, particularly in supplying the
counsel and guidance so important to children today. That adequate
housing might be available, a new residence is in process of construction for the Superintendent, following the completion of which the old
residence will be occupied by the Assistant.
We are especially happy and pleased that our new Assistant's wife
is a graduate of the Covina Home. We should like also to report that
our Southern Social Welfare Worker is a graduate of the Home at
Covina.
The problem of establishing a per capita tax for the operation of
the Homes is difficult due to certain variables which are not easy to
forecast.

142

143

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Among them are the number of candidates who pay the $25.00
Homes' Fee: the uncertainty of investment markets two years hence in
connection with security income and the unknown factor of profits or
losses from sales of securities and real estate which depend upon mar~
ket conditions.
It is appropriate to point out that the per capita tax is levied at one
communication, payable at the close of the fiscal year nine months later
and the moneys collected therefrom provide for the fiscal year ending
one year thereafter.
A study of reports for the last twelve years indicates a falling off of
initiates who 'have provided as high as $389,000 in 1947 to a low of
$246,000 in the year just closed. On the other hand, investment income
has risen from $57,000 in 1944 to $264,000 in the current year. Further,
sales of securities and real estate. etc. provided $89,000 in 1955 which
was the highest in the years under review. Three of those years provided
no income from this source and others very moderately. This brings
forcibly the conclusion that in making forecasts this source of revenue
should be disregarded.
In the expense category our experience has been the same as all
institutions and businesses who have to compete in the open market for
services and supplies. Total expenses have risen from $242,800 in 1945
to $651,300 in 1955-an increase of 270%.
A comparison of the Estimate an? Actual experience for the fiscal
year just ended follows:

Estimated Expenses:
Decato, Covina and Outside Relief.............. $600,000
Other Expenses ............................................ 60,000
Total Exipenses ................".......................$660,000

$586.800
64,600
$651,400

Estimated De8cit .............................................. ..$ 45,000
Actual Gain ..........................................................

$104,200

Estimated Loss, 1955............................- ...........- ......................-.$ 45 ,000
Actual Gain, 1955....................................................................,....... 104 ,200
Amount to Account Por......................................................$149,200
200
Per Capita fllcrelU!e. ....- ........................................................... _•.•$
30,200
......
.................................
increase...................
Income
Endowment
9,500
Homes Investment In.crease............................................................
Cash Contribution Lodge:
5,900
Covina, Decato, etc., increase..................................................
Profit on Sale of Securities and Real Estate
not included in estimate............................................................ 89,200
Miscellaneous Income not included in estimate............................ 9,400
Decrease in Operating Bxpeases.................................................... 8,600
Decrease in Revenue from $25 Contribution................................

$149,200

ESTIMATE POR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1955
Estimate
Made
Oct. 1953
Per Capita ..............·-················-···························$108,000
$25 Candidates' Fee........................... ,........•....... 250,000
Endowment Fund ................................................ 175,000
Interest on Home Investments............................ 50,000
Cash Contribution Lodge:
Decato ............................................................ 16,000
Covina ............................................................ 16,000
Income from Sale of Real Estate
and Securities .......................................... Not included
Miscellaneous Income .................................. Not Included
Income ......................................................$615,000

$153,000
3,800

Actual
Year Ending
July 31, 1955

On the basis of the table of experience, we recommend the following
budget for the &seal year ending July 31, 1957:

$108,200
246,200
205,200
59,500

INCOME
Per Capita Tax-50c based upon 230,000 members.................... $115,000
$25 Fee Paid by Initiates based upon 10,000 members. ............. 250,000
Endowment and Homes Investment Income................................ 260,000
Cash Contribution from Lodges-Covina and Decato................ 35,000

16,000
21,900

EXPENSES

89,200
9,400
$755,600

$660,000
Operating Expenses-Covina and Decato, including Outside Relief........................$600,000
Administration Expenses .............................................................. 68,000
$668,000
Estimated Deficit ·····-·-·······-·- --...........- ......._$ 8,000

144

145

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Excluded from this estimate is miscellaneous income which has
varied from $384 to $9,300 and all profit from sale of real estate and
securities which is unpredictable but which should provide enough revenue to overcome the estimated deficit.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT-D ECOTO HOME

Recommend Per Capita Tax-50c.
Homes 'has on hand a reserve of $728,000, or a little in excess of one
year's operating costs. This reserve should be kept intact. Figures for
1955 fiscal year are book figures subject to final audit and correction.
CHARLES M. WoLLENBERG
MYRON E. SMITH
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
LEO E. ANDERSON
RALPH HEAD

Guy B. M1zE
EDGAR

v. STEWART, JR.

ARTHUR M. WARREN

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: Once again I am privileged to present for your consideration this, the 56th Superintendent's report of the operation of the
Masonic Home here at Decoto, and the 15th during my stewardship,
for the year ending July 31, 1955.
It is always a pleasure to report that conditions at the Home are
satisfactory, and no drastic change has taken place in the Home during
the past 12 months.
At the beginning of the year there were 122 men and 197 women, a
total c>f 319. Thirty-seven women, average age 79 years, and thirty-two
men, average age 80 years, were admitted during the year. During the
same period 21 women, average age 83 years, and 22 men, average age
80 years, passed away, 3 men and 1 woman were withdrawn. The population on August 1, 1955, was 128 men and 212 women, a total of 340.
Included in this number are thirteen married couples.
Age Groups
59
60-69
70-79
80-89
90-99

Total

17
40
57
14

Women
1
16
71
100
24

128

212

340

Men

The above jnformation indicates that a large majority o£ the residents
of the Home have lived far beyond that proverbial four-score and ten.
The fact that only 74 members are hospitalized further indicates that a
very large majority of the members are enjoying fairly good health.
Those who must be 1hospitalized are receiving excellent care, in a
most kindly and efficient manner, under the watchful eye of Miss Bess
Payne, our Head Nurse.
Doctors from the Palo Alto Clinic visit the sick in our hospital 6ve
days a week. On these visits arrangements are made for any mem·ber of
the Home who feels the need of a doctor's advice, to see the doctor.
The doctors' orders for these cases are referred to Miss Payne, whose
ttsponsibility it is to see that these orders, in all cases, a.re carried out.
Dr. William O'Connor, of Hayward, spends every Wednesday
forenoon in our Dental Clinic, which was added to our hospital facilities
last year. This dental arrangement enables Dr. O'Connor to render a
much !better service to a greater number of our members, especially those
who find it impossible, due to infirmities, to get to his office in Hayward.
We have 1been faced, in the past, with the problem of serving meals
to members in the main building when their physical condition ·became
such that they could no longer make the trip to the dining room. The

H7

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAJ.IPORNIA

problem was solved, not very satisfactorily. however, by sending such
members to the hospital. This was not a very desirable arrangement from
the mem!bers' point of view, and very often it worked a hardship on the
hospital inasmuch as quite often beds used by such members were needed
for hospital patients.
In an effort to correct this condition, and to enable such members to
live a somewhat normal existence without over exertion, quarters were
arranged on the North and East wings of the fourth floor. Here they
have a private room, and a dining room where meals are served from an
adjoining kitchenette. For diversion, they have a Television Room where
they are privil~ged to have programs of their own choice. A covered
closed-in glass sun deck, and a large wide window have been provided
where they can sit by the hour and enjoy the scenery of the valley below.
Mrs. Maud Teass assumed the responsilbilities of the very important
office of Matron of the Home abour a year ago. During her short tenure
of office, she has met every prOblem squarely, and proven herself very
capable, and through friendliness and square dealing, is becoming very
popular. In addition to her many other duties, Mrs. Teass found time
to have the furniture placed in the rooms in the North wing and assign
the members to their rooms. She also staffed the department and has it
operating quite smoothly.
Brother Gail David, who was appointed Assistant Superintendent a
year ago, is handling the details of his office in a very satisfactory manner. He is quite busy trying to put our stock farm on a paying basis, and
the development of the well will be very helpful. He will now be able
to produce more ·feed to fatten the stock.
The other important department heads remain the same as last year,
and are operating very efficiently.
I am pleased to report that the installation of the three elevators,
mentioned in my last year's report, has ibeen completed and are all
operating very satisfactorily. The lift machinery of the North Wing
elevator was raised to enable this elevator to serve the fifth floor of the
Administration Building. This change, needless to say. is appreciated
by the ladies who have rooms on that floor.
For some time past, our water supply was very limited, and at times
not sufficient. Last fall the well dried up completely, and as a result, we
had to purchase water from the Peoples Utility Co. of Niles. The first
part of the year we decided we would make an effort to develop a well
that would provide an ample supply of water for the Home. A location
was decided on, and a 12 inch well, 248 .feet deep, was drilled. At the
completion of the drilling operation we found that our efforts were well
rewarded. We had 174 feet of water in the well. A pump was placed
on the well and 168,000 gallons were pumped during an eight hour
test run.

Following this test run the water was again measured, and we found
that the water level had been lowered only 14 feet. We feel. therefore,
that the water problem of the Home has been solved for the present, and
from all indications for the far distant future as well.
Our guest register indicates that 4,089 visitors signed the register
during the year. Representatives from 411 California Lodges, 29 states
and 4 foreign jurisdictions are represented in that total.
During the year 26 degrees w~re exemplified in Siminoff Temple by
Lodges from various parts of the jurisdiction, some as far south as Los
Angeles. The 50 entertainments, whkh were presented by various
groups were enjoyed very much by the Home folks. Fifty-five movie
programs were provided gratis by the following Film Distributing Companies of San Francisco: RKO, Columbia Pictures, United Artists,
Warner Brothers and Twentieth Century Fox. All of these programs
were enjoyed immensely by the members of the Masonic Home. We,
therefore, want to assure the above mentioned Film Distributing Companies that their generosity is deeply appreciated by the Home folks.
The East Bay Past Matrons' Association, under the leadership of
their President, Mrs. Beatrice Rule, P. M., made their annual visit to
the Masonic Home on August 25, 1954. This yearly visit has ·become
known as our "Jam and Jelly Day." On this occasion, in addition to the
7,899 jars of jam, jelly, fruit juices, etc., our hospital was presented with
92 hospital gowns, which the good ladies had made; 16 bedspreads, also
an assortment of women's clothing, needles, thread, dress material,
custom-made jewelry and $37.00 in cash.
After the above business was taken care of. a delicious luncheon was
served in our Banquet Room in honor of Worthy Grand Matron Bernice
Jan Basich and her Grand Lodge Officers. Following the luncheon, the
ladies adjourned to the Auditorium, where a delightful reception was
held in honor of Worthy Grand Matron Basich and her Grand Lodge
Officers.

146

FRUITS, PRODUCE. MEAT. ETC .• DELIVERED TO
COMMISSARY
80.00
FRUIT, Fresh ......................................................
351.00
.
.......................
(apricots)
Fresh frozen
774.00
Dried (apricots) .................................... 343.00
1,200.00
HAY
MEAT, Beef, 13 head.......................................... 2,309.55
P-0rk, 99 ihead.......................................... 6,885.59
VEGETABLES, fresh ........................................
NUTS. walnuts ................................................... .

9,195.14
266.75
80.00
11,515.89

148

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

149

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT-COVINA HOME

LIVE STOCK ON RANGE,
Beef (young and old) --····················--········································-···- 91
Pork (young and old) ··········-····································-··················· 44
In conclusion I wish to express my sincere thanks to the members of
the Board of Trustees of our Home for the many courtesies extended
to us throughout the year. It shall always lbe my desire to co,n duct the
a1fairs of our Home in accordance with your wishes.
Respectfully submitted,
}AMES R. EUBANKS, Superintendent

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is a privilege and a pleasure to present to you my seventh annual
report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina,
for the year ending July 31, 1955.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

The population of our Covina Home Family for the year ending July
31, 1955, numbered seventy-four children, thirty-five girls and thirtynine boys. This is an increase of eight children over the preceding year.
During the year twenty-two children were ad·mitted to the Home, thirteen hoys and nine girls. In this same period ten boys and four girls
departed from the Home. Of this number, three girls and four boys were
graduated from Covina High School and six boys and one girl returned
to the re-established homes of their parents. Five of our graduates will
enter various colleges this fall, one girl graduate is employed by the
Telephone Company. while another, having successfully completed a
course in I. B. M .• is employed in industry. Three boys and three girls
were graduated from Charter Oak Grammar School and will enter
Covina High School at the beginning of the fall term.
Family Status
Children
Families
Orphans
10
6
H/0 Fathers living
17
10
H/0 Mothers living
19
13
Both parents living
28
14
Family relationships in the Home consist of the following: one
family of five children each: six families of three children each: fifteen
families of two children each: twenty-one families of one child each. Of
the seventy-four children, twenty-five attended high school and fortynine are enrolled in elementary school. Twelve children, representing
seven families, are in the Home under the membership of the grandparent. Total number of Masonic Lodges having wards in the Home,
forty-two, ·from forty-three families. Our youngest member is five years
of age and our oldest is seventeen years of age. The average length of
children's residence is four years.
HOME, SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY ACTMTIES

Full participation in school and civic youth activities is encouraged,
not only for training in good citizenship, hut for the benefits of such
participation in the rounding out of our family life at the Home. The
older children have represented the Home successfully in High School
through scholastic honors, service clubs, social activities and athletic
competition: while the younger children assume their full share of the
responsibility for the success of the Charter Oak Grammar School Car-

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

nival and other school activities. T 1he younger boys are members of Culb
Scouts. Our Senior boys represent the Home in the George Washington
Chapter, Order of DeMolay, and our Senior and Intermediate girls are
active members of Bethel No. 98, International Order of Job's Daughters. Linda Deemer, Class of '56, is now holding the office of Senior
Princess and Susan Hacquebord the office of Guide of Bethel No. 98.
Every encouragement is given the children to attain a high scholastic
standing, including a nightly supervised study period and the services of
a qualified instructor in High School subjects. For the grade school students, supplemental tutoring is also being given at the Home. This extra
help is most beneficial in meeting the individual's needs, and has proved
its value in satisfactory results. Eleven of our boys and girls won awards
in the Westerners' Masonic Clu:b 1954 Scholastic Contest and attended
the Award Dinner at the Twentieth Century-Fox Film Studios in Hollywood. One of our graduating Senior girls received the Betty Crocker
Home Maker Award from the Covina High School. Optional with each
child is instruction in singing, music and ballet. The children assume the
responsibility of two programs during.the year--at the May meeting of
the Los Angeles Board of Relief in Los Angeles: and a program for the
guests, children and staff at our Big Family Christmas Party. Two
awards are made each year at our Family Christmas Party. One is the
Leonard Gross Memorial Award for the "Boy of the Year," the other
is the Adolph Koshland Award for "Good Citizenship," which may be
given to either boys or girls. Our recreational program covers many
phases-hikes, weekend camping and fishing expeditions, dances, picnics, casual parties, Home movies, roller skating parties, rodeos and an
occasional circus are but a few of the recreations enjoyed by the children.
For our outstanding movie program we extend our sincere appreciation
to Columbia Pictures Corporation, Loew's Incorporated, R. K. 0. Radio
Pictures Incorporated, Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation, Universal Film Exchanges Incorporated, Warner Brothers Pictures Incorporated and the Bliss Pickup and Delivery Service of Alhambra. Our
children attend the church of their choice and take an active part in the
religious activities of the various denominations.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

151

HEALTH AND WELFARE PROGRAM

We are h~ppy to report no serious health problems this past year.
Under the guidance of Dr. W. P. Magan and his associates, and the
watchful eye of our nurse, Mrs. Hetty Fairfield, our children continue
to 1~ in excellent physical condition. Health progress reports are made
possible by the complete physical examination of each child at regular
interva~s. Special nourishment, extra rest and vitamin supplement, has
been given when needed. D. P. T. booster shots were administered to
all children in May__;before the beginning of our Summer Campin9 Program. Two patients reported for surgery, one for orthopedic surgery
and one for a tonsilectomy. One hundred and one dental treatments
were given in the Home Dental Clinic iby Dr. Elmer King, an alumnus
of Covina Home, who made examinations of the children's teeth at
periodic intervals. Fourteen children received orthodontia care with a
total of one hundred and thirty-two orthodontia treatments recorded for
the year. Dr. Wayne D. Kuettel, Covina, continued opthalmic examinations and visual treatments as a part of our health plan. Two hundred
and nineteen individual hospital admissions are recorded, with a total
of four hundred and thirty-two hospital days. Four thousand five hundred and four Home Hospital Clinic treatments were administered and
tfghty-seven prophylactic treatments were given. We cannot adequately
~press the depth of our appreciation to Dr. W. P. Magan and his assoaates for their constant ·Watchfulness and never ceasing devotion in
behalf of our boys and girls.
.
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

The painting' of the exterior of all building~ and the renovation and
refurnishing of the dormitories has been our paramount objective during
the year. All dormitories have been painted and the rooms of the Senior
boys, Senior Intermediate and Intermediate boys have been refurnished.
To the Al Malaikah Shrine, whose generosity made possible the refurnishing program, we extend our sincere appreciation. Rugs, draperies
and curtains have been added or replaced where necessary, and various
pieces of furniture reupholstered or recovered. The Family living room
h~~ ~en completely refurnished, and is used extensively in our lodge
VISitation program as well as for community activity.

SUMMER PROGRAM

Under the supervision of a trained and competent staff, all of our
younger boys and girls enjoyed a two week's vacation at the Coronado
Youth Camp. The Senior boys group participated in a Colorado River
Trip with their headquarters at Blythe. The High School girls enjoyed a
month-long tour through the State and National Parks of California.
This trip included a visit to the Home in Decato and a visit to the Grand
Lodge offices in San Francisco.

MASONIC PIONEERS 4-H CLUB

In the fiscal year of 1954-1955 twenty-four of our Intermediate boys
and girls participated in 4-H Clu:b work, twenty-one of this number
.carrying animal projects. The club, now in its sixth year, under the
capable management of Mr. Val Dauchy, has achieved an enviable
leplltation in 4-H circle. Each year our projects are shown at the Annual

153

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

San Gabriel 4-H Fair at Pomona, where in May 1955 the children
exhibited twenty-tw o animals and received a total of twenty awards.
Two of the three girls who exhibited in the baking class received awards.
The tangible value of this training in the care and humane treatment
of animals, and the lessons learned in cooperation and good sportsman ship cannot be overemphasized. The Home maintains a herd of Registered Hereford breeding stock, as well as Registered Duroc Swine. For
the Covina Home Family in the past fiscal year we have produced for
consumption, in Hve weight, approximately six thousand two hundred
pounds of beef, seventeen thousand three hundred and seventy-five
pounds of pork and two hundred pounds of Iamb. Work is being continued in the reclamation of waste land for utilization in our 4-H program.

Masonic Home Newslette r was mailed to Alumni, to past Grand Masters. to the Masonic Lodges currently sponsorin g a child in the Home.
May ,I express to the Board of Trustees the deep appreciati on of our
entire Home Family for the continuing friendly guidance and counsel,
tendered with understan ding, for the various matters that are encountered in the administra tion of a chilld care program. This past year's
association with the children, staff and many friends of our Home Fam·
ily has been most gratifying .

152

Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY, Superintendent.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTUR ER
VISITATIO NS

We welcomed to the Covina Home a total of five thousand three
hundred and seventy-e ight visitors during the past year, representing
seventy-five Masonic Lodges, affiliated Masonic organizations and
friends of the Home. We are proud of our Home Family and enjoy
showing our .friends the excellent facilities the Home has to offer. It is
an inspiration to know of. and to feel, the keen interest the Brethren of
the Fraternity have in our !boys and girls, and to 'be aware of their strong
support in our over-all program for the children's welfare and happiness.
The many donations received throughou t the year have added greatly
to the fuller enjoy.ment of the children and we are deeply appreciative
of this interest in our Family. A change in policy regarding group visitations was put into effect in January 1955, whereby the third Sunday of
each month was designate d as "group visitation" day. This change was
necessitated by the increased utilization of the visitation program to the
point that the best interest of the children was being endangere d. Visitations by a lodge may not be more often than once every two years and
a maximum of four hµndred reservations made for any one Sunday.
ALUMNI OP THE COVINA HOME

The second Sunday in Septem1ber is dedicated to the observanc e of
Covina Alumni Home-Co ming Day, when we welcome the boys and
girls of yesteryear . AJI through the year the Alumni visit the Home and
their Masonic Family: in some cases after an absence of many years.
The Covina Alumni Reunion and the Alumni Dinner in San Francisco
are well attended. The value of these gathering s in cementing the intangible web of childhood associations and in keeping strong the bond
between the Alumni and the Home is immeasurable. Invitations to these
Reunions are mailed to every Alumnus for whom we have an active
address. Early in January 1955 a copy of the twenty-ni nth issue of the

To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
I am presenting my third annual report, covering my own activities
as Grand Lecturer and those of the Ritual Committee.
Shortly after the Annual Communication last year, Brother Guy B.
Mize retired as Assistant Grand Lecturer for Division Five, to become
one of the trustees of the Masonic Homes. While we have lost an exceptionally able ritualist and administrator, we have been fortunate in
the appointme nt of his successor, Brother Donald G. Campbell, who
comes to the Committee with excellent experience.
The usual Conferenc es of Inspectors were conducted by the Assistant Grand Lecturers as foJJow:s:
Divisions 1 and 2 at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 17-18, 1955, conducted Jointly by Worshipf ul Clare B. CampbeJJ and Worshipf ul Ralph
M. Foote.
Division 3, at GuerneviJJe, May 6-8, 1955, conducted by Worshipf ul
Arthur J. Kahn.
Division 4, at Yosemite VaJJey, June 3-5, 1955, conducted by Worshipful Raymond G. Taylor.
Division 5, at Ojai, April 22-24, 1955, conducted by Worshipf ul
Donald G. Campbell.
Division 6, at Riverside, MarC'h 25-27, 1955, conducted by Worshipful Clark H. Shaw.
I had the priviJege of attending aJJ of these conferences, at which
the work was fuJJy and exceJJently done by the Inspectors of the reapective divisions. The Inspectors of Divisions One, Two and Six had
perfect attendanc e at their conferences.
At each of the conferences, the Inspectors were addressed by the
Grand Master and by the Grand Secretary on matters of interest and
Fportanc e.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

At each of the conferences, meetings of the Ritual Committee were
held, to consider various matters of ritual. In addition, a special meeting of the Committee was held on December 3rd and 4th, 1954, at San
Francisco, with all members of the Committee present, at which meeting the entire work of the three degrees was reviewed and performed.
Annual reports have been received from all Inspectors in the jurisdiction, as required by Section 53 of the Ordinances. These reports
again reveal that our lodges, for the most part, are in good working condition and actively at work. As usual, however, certain weak spots have
appeared, to which special attention is being given by the Inspectors.
The matter of codes and ciphers, to which I referred last year, has
received our attention, and the Inspectors have been requested to warn
the officers of their districts that the use or even the possession of these
ciphers is ground for Masonic discipline. The Grand Master has further ruled that foreign ciphers, even though lawfully received, are nevertheless unlawful for the recipient to have or use in this jurisdiction.
The Inspectors 'have had difficulty in the past with the performance
of degree teams. At the commencement of this year, we adopted a rule
to require conformity to the adopted ritual on the part of all degree
teams, by requiring that before their appearance in any lodge they have
the approval of the Inspector as to each member of the team who intends to work. We believe that this has had a very salutary effect and
will tend to eliminate incapable and non-conforming degree teams. It
has placed some additional burdens on the Inspectors, particularly in
metropolitan areas. but they ·have responded with their usual fine spirit.
If the present rule does not have the desired effect, your Committee
will recommend more drastic supervision, because we believe that a degree team should be at least as efficient as the officers of any lodge.
Pursuant to the resolution adopted by Grand Lodge last year, for
a revision of the Funeral Service, the Grand Master referred the revision to the Ritual Committee, and a special report of the Committee has
been in your hands for several weeks and will be presented for action
later in this session.
The Committee has no suggestions for any changes in the esoteric
work.
In closing, may I express my personal appreciation to the Grand
Master for his courtesies during the year, and to the Grand Secretary
and Assistant Grand Secretary for their many helpful acts during the
year, and also my thanks to you brethren for giving me the opportunity
of serving you for the past year.

REPORT OF
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWME NT BOARD
1955

154

Respectfully submitted,
ELBERT

w. DAVIS

Grand Lecturer

155

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board takes great pleasure in
presenting, herewith, its twenty-third annual report covering the period
from August 1, 1954, to July 31, 1955, inclusive.
FAITH

A communication directed to the Inspectors, Masters, Wardens, and
Brethren of the Jurisdiction in 1933, by the Most Worshipful Frank W.
Mixter, reads in part, as follows: "The Grand Lodge at its eighty-third
annual communication, recognizing the necessity for the stabilization of
some system for financing the support of our Homes, by unanimous
vote adopted the report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, thereby establishing such policy and later, by similar vote, adopted
the report of the Committee on Jurisprudence, enacting the legislation
to carry into effect the newly established policy." Thus, your Endowment Board was created with its purpose indicated.
It was an evidence of FAITH. "To believe, is to be strong. Doubt
cramps energy. Belief is power." Grand Lodge in its eighty-third annual
communication had FAITH in a most important program, that, relating
to the financing of our Homes. "Faith marches at the head of the army
of progress. It is found beside the most refined light, the freest government, the profoundest philosophy, the noblest poetry, the purest humanity." It is for us to carry on with the FAITH that was manifested by
those who demonstrated their confidence in the future of the jurisdiction.
HOPE

"You cannot put a great HOPE into a small soul." Our pioneers
believed in the size of the soul of those in whom they trusted the progress
of the Endowment Fund. Their HOPES are gradually and surely being
realized. The Fund is increasing in a satisfactory manner. The number
of participants is likewise gratifying. The number of Honor Lodges is
most pleasing to your Board. Every reasonable effort has been made by
your Board to spread information about the Homes. We've done this
by word and pictures, by reports to Grand Lodge, by reports and information to the constituent Lodges, their officers and those interested in
our work. The activities of the Homes have been depicted in pictures,
both stills and movies. These have been well received and enjoyed by
the Craft all over the Jurisdiction, including the Hawaiian Islands. The
opportunity to make Bequests has been presented in various ways. We
acknowledge and show appreciation of the many Memorials that have
been made for the benefit of the Fund.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

We have lived by the HOPE that each year is to be better. Our aim
is to improve the job that has been done :before and justify the confidence
that has been shown us over the years. Ours has been a great opportunity and many of our HOPES have been realized, but such realization
has only beeen possible by the stalwart help of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master, Grand Lodge officers, officers of the Constituent Lodges,
the Inspectors, and a vast horde of others, who, throughout the years,
have manifested an unusual interest in our two One Homes.

FUND TOTAL

156

August 1, 1954, Total of Fund .. $5,600,606.15
Total increase including gain
on securities sale...................... 754,263.99
July 31, 1955, Total of Fund ...... 6,354,870.14
(The Endowment Board as now constituted:)
1955

CHARITY
FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY, but the greatest of these is
CHARITY. After all, that is the purpose of our entire program. The
results can best be judged by surveying the figures showing the increase
in the total amount of the Endowment Fund, the number of Memorials,
the Bequests, the individual contributions through Lodges. The following report is for your interest and edification. We urge you not only to
read it •but to consider yourself a stockholder in this great organization
of ours. Ask yourself: Am I satisfied with my own participation, that of
my Lodge, and that of the entire Jurisdiction? Your efforts and help will
lbe appreciated. Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board, again, gratefully thanks all who have served so well.
CoNTBIBUTIONs THROUGH THE LoDGES
1952 ...........................................•..$267,502.18
1953 .............................................. 330,888.49
1954 ............................................ - 288,995.94
1955 .............................................. 311,005.10
RECEIPTS FROM ALL SOURCES
1952 .............................................. $346,898.90
1953 .............................................. 557,316.40
1954 .............................................. 451,675.04
1955 .............................................. 576,647.66
INDMDUAL PARTICIPATION
1952 ........................................................61,040
1953 ........................................................72,734
1954 ........................................................62,387
1955 ························-···········---····-·-··-67.684
HoNoR LoooEs
1952
1953
1954
1955

·······-·······-·-·-········-·····-·······-········178
............................................................260
....................................... _...... :............ 186
................................................ - ..........228

157

ORNO E. TYLER
HARRY A. NAUMAN, JR.
JOHN M. GORDON
JOHN KAHLER
MARION A. LoNG

1956

1957

ERNEST G. BASHOR
IRA D. WHEELER
LESTER A. PRICE
NORBERT MIXTER
JOHN
DAVEY

KERMIT A. JACOBSON
CLOVIS J. ROBERT
BYRON CoLEMAN
LEONARD R. A VILLA
RUE
SIMS

w.

w.

The Officers of the Board are:
ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice-Chairman (North)
IRA D. WHEELER, Vice-Chairman (South)
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSON, Secretary
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
DR. ERNEST G. BASHOR. Chairman
TESTAMENTARY GIFTS
Bequests have been received as follows, up to July 31, 1955:
Estate of:

Ander.on...-------·-----------··-··-·-----..-·-·---.... .$. 46,808.48
Dehner---·-·-·------·-----8,142.60
Gardfner________
40.60

Peter A.
Winnie C.
Frederick William

Abbie H. G.rwood..___
Lottie S. Go«t-c=ND
Charlea F. M.eyen_-·-·---··----····-

42,472.21
500.00
6,974.46
Bertha Sherwood -----......................- - - · · - - - - - - - - 709.62
George E. Tarmey
--35,03357
Eugene Weill ....---·-------.........- ....·-··--··-·-·
21,677.70
John Oliver WooJard....-................................_ ..____________________ . 100.00
$162,459.24

158

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MEMORIALS

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per member.
(Such contributions were made by 228 Lodges.)

Dlnty Moore
William F. Fosbery
William Abplanalp
Chester V. Newell
Evans R. Foster
Harry S. Adelson
Frank S. Newell
Percy E. Garnett
Harold T. Akins
William J. O'Neill III
Charles W. Geller
Herman Bauer
Mrs. Dora Overend
Maro E. Gibbs
Philip S. Becker
Burnett C. Patton
William F. Gibbs
George Benz
Mae A. Patton
Robert Hall
Isaac Wm. Bernstein
John R. Pierce
Oarence R. Hamilton
Edwin N. Betts
William A. Peterson
Susan I. Hanson
Andrew W. Bloomquist
Walter B. Pollock
W. E. Herrtsberger
Carlo Brandi
Stephen Porsella
Louis A. Hart
Mrs. Philip Broughton
Mrs. Jeffrey Rashleigh
Newt Higdon
John B. Bruner
Robert H. Reeves
George H. E. Brunkhorst Roy N. Hillyer
George H. Ressequfe
Howard L. Hockett
Leo C. Bunger
James Ritchie
Axel Holmquist
0. D. Burke
Mrs. Jane Robertson
H. C. Hopkins
Leo Cahn
Qarence J. Roseberry
David Hostetler
Mrs. James A. Campbell
Elaine C. J. Rowe
Mrs. Frank Howlett
Daniel H. Carpenter
Charles M. Russell
John L. Ingle
Charles C. Carter
James D. Ryan
Scott E. Jameson
Mrs. Marcia E. Cary
Mr. Schoonover
Clyle T. Johnson
Aimee Chase
Grace Schwartz
Lester M. Johnson
William H. Clark
Robert Seamster
Erle C. Jones
Leontine Cohn
William P. Self
Dr. Asa Karns
Alice M. Cook
Dr. James C. Settles
Julius Kemmer
John C. Craven
Vincent H. Sjosten
William D. Kennedy
Frank C. Criswell
Charles A. Smart
Mother of Alfred Croston Ernest A. Kienasco
James T. Snyder
George Koontz
Fred P. Cruice
Jack 0. Songer
Gustave Lackman
Mrs. Martin Dabovich
John L. Stevens
Howard S. Laughlin
Alfred Delton
Ray F. Stillings
Timothy F. Linane
Mrs. Della Dannette
Lem G. Stoecker
Victor R. Lindstrom
James Deck
Mrs. Pauline J. Stone
Mrs. Violet Lockwood
Alpbouse J. Deleporte
Clyde F. Stoney
Mrs. Inez C. London
Ollie De Moss
Harry W. Stouffer
William MacDonald
E. J. De Repentlgny
Otto Stromeier
William D. MacMillian
Louis S. Dlegaard
Simon C. Strumer
Russell T. Maddy
Fanny C. Di Ghilinl
Willard R. Tanzer
Sarah de la Montanga Dorn Mrs. Fred Mahr
Nell Tate.
Mrs. Jack McCallum
Walter W. Douglas
Capt. James M. McDonald Grace Teffeau
Lizzie Drake
Charles W. Tenney
Homer McHenry
Mrs. Gertrude Dudley
Richard M. TilliB
Mr. and Mrs. Karl Edling Stuart S. McKee
Elizabeth Trelrthick
Israel Mendelsohn
Guy D. Edwarls
Nelita M. Van Atta
George P. Mennie
M. A. Elftman
Samuel E. V OQan
Wells C. Merwin
Margaret Eimers
Mrs. Bessie Walker
Clarence Earl Miller
David W. E\.ans
Carroll M. Will
Mrs. John Miller
John F. Eybel
Harold F. Williams
H. Grady Mills
Grace Faulkner
Theodore Winters
Lynn W. Millspaugh
Charles L. Fitch
A. J. Moore
George H. Fltschen

No.
1

Lodge

3
21
24
26
35
40
42
50
58
61
6t
93
120 Fidelity -·········-··-······-··-···········..·····-········-····-··········-······-···-·
128
143 ¥::~in-:::::::::::=:::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
144 e'ental ----·····-··-····-···· ·--· ..·-···-···-·····--····149
ssen -···-..--····-··-···-·-··-··········-·· ··-····-··..·-···-··--···············
166 Excelsior ··········---·············--····················-··················-··-·············
167 Alameda ···-····-·-·----·····--···-···· ··-·-··········-··-·····-·-··-·· ····-168 Redwood Oty --·------·······--········----··········-·-·····-··· 178 Phoenix - - - · - ·..·--·-·--··-·-·-·-·-····
···-·-·-··-··192 ~nta Barbara --·-····-········-···--··-··· ···-···········-·-··-..······194
ountaln Vieow ............- ......·-····-···-···-·..·······-····-···-·-···-··
195
200
202 Pentalpha -·--··--····-·····-····-···- ········-············-··-·-·· ····207
209
211
212 ~u\ San Francisco ····-··-····························································
214
220
226
237
241
242
243
246

159

Members

531

564

~~~

375
250
488
194
640

698
358
354

~~~~= =::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::: 1~g
512

r::B~!~~d~~~=:::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ii~

259

256

260 King Solomon's----····- ---·--······-···-···- -·-··-- 477
262
264

272
273
277
278
279
285
287
291
299
305
307
308

~~an-·-:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
~::~::=::::=::=:=:::::::.~::::=:==:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~!

Selma -··-··---·..............·-··-······-········--········--· ·-····-···-·
Southern California ··----·····································-·-··········-··-····Hanford -··-·······--···--··········· ·-···-·······-····-··..-···-···-San Miguel ·--···-··-··-····-····-···- ······-··--····--··-·-··-·- ·-·
Winnedumah -·-··--·-···-··········-··---·········-~····--·-····-

233
498
239
63
237

~~p~~~--=:==::::=:.-=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~;

Azusa ----·······-······················-·······-·-····--········--················-···- 295
Santa Monica ···--·--·-···-··--········· ···-·······-·······--·-·--- 413
Monrovia ......· - · -..··----··-·-·····-·-·--·· ·--····-····--- 310

Total

$1.150.00
1,975.58
921.00
466.00
627.41
4.451.75
1.57550
1,754.00
304.50
l,520.00
2,240.00
592.00
291.50
l,190.00
1,288.50
516.00
834.00
530.00
980.00
399.45
l,319.40
1,400.00
750.25
763.00
282.50
377.50
1,315.00
889.50
910.50
31950
532.50
893.50
1,517.40
1,24850
445.00
l,284.00
l,169.50
1,025.75
832.46
812.50
981.50
405.00
3,135.00
l,146.00
1,310.00
487.00
l,412.00
483.00
146.57
582.69
841.50
650.00
591.88
836.50
626.00

160
No.

309
315
320
322
329
332
335
343
329
351
352
356
357
367

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THI'!.

Lodge

Members

Delano -·····················-·············-····-··········--·······-·-····-·-····-· 244
Norwalk ---·············-···········-··-··········-···-···········-·········--- 297

South Gate -·················-····-····-··········-··········--····-··············--··· 605
Alhambra ·-··-················-·······················-······································· 661
Vallee de France ···-············-····-····-····-······-·············-··-········-··· 127
San Pedro ···-···················-·····-······················································ 511
West Gate ···-··············-··········-····-············-····················--········· 1116
San Fernando ······································-···········-···················-········ 623

~~:s~~

-: : : : : : :_-_-_._._._._._._._._._._-_-: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : g~~
1

Sunset ·····································-··········-··········-······-··-··················· 374

~~~~~~ ::::.:·.:·::.·.:·.:::::::::::::::·.:·.::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· it~
South Pasadena ·-··-···-······························-·-··············-·······-··- 621

368 Unity --·-··-···-·······································-·-··--··················· 636
371 le Progrea de L'Oceanie...............-............................................... 714
377 Artesia --·········-·······-··········-·····--······--············-··-······-··-·-·· 198
378
379
383 Oros! -···········································································-················· 151
384 El Centro ..............:...·-····································-····-··-·················· 462
387
392
394
395
396
400
402

~:~~e

: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~~

~":: ~k~··:::::::::·.::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :A~
¥~!1:kir:..:.::·::.-.-.~.:::::::::::::::::::::~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~M

403

ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~ iH

408 Sierra Madre ·-··············-······-··--··············-············-··-··············· 176
409 Honolulu -·--···············································-····-·····-··-····-·-- 419

414
415
420
424
425
437
438
441
443
444
452
453
454
457
458
462
464
465
467
469
470
472
476
482
493
495
501
504
506

~~~~tTr~;;i···:::::::::::.-.-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_._._._._._._-_-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Kerman -················-··········--·······-·-··-················-··-·-··---·Exeter ·········-···············································-·····························-Holtville·························-·········-·············-··············--····-·············Lancaster ·················································································-·······
Acacia -·-··············-············-··············-························-·-··············
Coronado ········································-··························--············-···
Schofield ·······················································-··············-······-·······-

129
234
151
378
52
409
281

Crocker --·····················-············-········-···--··-·---··-····-Ramona --·····-··············-······-······-········-·········-·-··-····--·····-·Henry S. Orme-····--·-···--··------··-·-··
Paul Revere ···-··-·-·-·--·-····-·-·-···-----·----Alta Vista ·····························-·---···········-··········-~·-·-·--·····-·-Center ·······-····························-····-····-····--········-······-············-·

428
537
663
624
269
563

E~~:::::::::::::=:::=:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::= ~~1

~~J,:r P~l;·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::=:::: 1~~

Lincoln -··································--···-······························-·············· 350
Maui····-·······-·············-·············-··-·····························-··············· 216
Coachella ·······-·-······--···············································--·····-····--· 223
Clarence F. Smith...·-······-···-----·········-·-··-·-·- 357
Atascadero --·················-·······························-·······················-··-· 132
Lebanon-·-···-··············-······························································-· 418
Westwood -···········-·-·····-·····························-·--····--·-··-·- 276
Seaside ---··-----------·-·-----·-····
523
Mount Olive ·-·--····--···---····-·--·--·-·--·-·-·--·:.. 1005

Total
496.00
600.00
1,724.00
1,332.00
27750
1,062.25
2,345.61
1,283.00
2,184.99
1,21250
961.00
1,570.00
530.00
1,466.00
1,674.35
1,430.00
.413.00
1,353.50
51550
331.00
924.07
950.00
1,852.50
1.504.00
820.70
1,01250
2,077.00
542.75
1,844.00
706.00
841.00
685.50
865.00
262.50
502.06
310.00
770.00
109.00
888.00
595.17
383.00
1,144.24
551.00
1.127.00
1.101.20
1.391.25
1,345.25
548.00
1.162.65
866.00
336.50
1,065.00
432.00
496.00
745.00
312.07
845.50
583.00
1,068.56
2,423.SO

161

Members
Total
990.00
Palms -······--····-····-····-····--··-······---···-··-·······-···------- 484
1,100.00
Vermont Square --·· · - · - - - - - · -· - - · - - - - - - - - 545
702.00
Taft ··-········---··················-·······--·-·----·····----···-·········-·-------·-···· 333
805.45
Euclid -·····························-········-···-·····--······--·----···-·······-·····- 394
2,000.00
Ionic ·····························································-····-···-·--···--········- 988
798.50
Sunrise ·······--··········-··········-··-··········-····-······-········-·-····-····--····- 335
Catalina Island ..............................................................................- 155
322.75
975.75
485
1,08850
535
169
434.00
600.00
Alexander Hamilton ·······································-······-·········-···- 298
Utopia .............................................................................................. 715
1,432.00
1,905.24
Lankershim --··························--·-··--··--··-··--·····-·····-·---·-·--··-- 922
1,090.50
San Gabriel ···························-·············-··················-········-·-······ 511
1,139.50
Arcadia ·······················-····--········-····--·-----·-···········-·-··-······ 507
639.59
~~~e __-_-_-_-_-_·:.·.:·.·.:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_::·.::::·.::::::·:::::_·::::.::::::::::::::".".::::::::::::::::::::::: 316
231
472.00
South Park ...................................................................................... 425
855.00
607.50
James A. Garfteld_······-····················-----····--··-····-··-·- 238
577
461
1,030.00
578 ~::Ie~~e ··:::::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_~_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 546
1,155.00
583 Wasco ·······································-·--·········-···········--············---····· 319
740.50
585 Manchester ...................................................................................... 386
1.030.00
589 Kauai ·························-·································-·············-··············-··· 132
333.75
590 Compass ·····························-····················································-·-- 301
621.00
595 Alexander Graham Bell ·······················-···················-·-··················· 292
838.50
596 Guardian --············--···················--········--······-···-·······-······-···· 959
1,924.16
599 Carmelita -·····················-····-··········-············-········-····-····-··········· 361
776.00
600 Lynwood ·············-···--····························································-········· 471
980.50
603 Dimond -·····-·········-······················-·····-···--··--········---·---······· 300
608.40
604 Jubilee ---······--··-···--·-·····--··-··----·-·-·--·· 367
804.25
612 'remple Oty ·····--········-··-·-··--·····----------.- 488
996.00
613 Three Pillars .......................................................................·-·-······· 440
892.60
614 Larchmont ·-···--·····-·························--··-····-······--·-··--·-·--···-· 419
880.00
615
188
378.00
616
229
496.40
619
297
676.50
622 Atwater -········--·-··································-·····························-·········· 373
755.00
623 Menorah ··············-················-··--····················-··············--···-···· 912
3,257.50
628 Truth --··················---·····--·········-··········--·-··········---·········-······· 252
596.75
629 Fairview ··································-···············-···········-·······--····-········ 296
808.20
633 Poinsettia ·········································-··-··-························-··········· 717
1.442.00
635 Riverside ··-··················-················-··-----····-···-······----·-·-- 441
894.00
636 John Marshall ·····················-··················-·········-····-··-······-···- 296
630.45
637 Palisades -·············-······-··········--····-··----····-·-···---·-·········-- 424
1,234.38
639 Composite ---···-····-················--·······-······-·······-····--···············- 424
964.50
641
243
515.00
642
272
828.00
647 Hawthorne ··········-···················-········--········-·-------····-··········- 503
1.020.00
650 La Brea ................................................... ·-··········-·····-·······-······ 270
601.05
659 La Habra ···········-························-·········-····-·-··-···-··---··--·-· 294
425.00
661 Malta --·····-······-···-···--·-·····-·····-·--·------··--··-- 225
453.50
662
457
926.50
663
140
337.00
667
527
1,116.50
672 Laguna Beach ······················-···········-··--··········-··-····-···········-··-· 215
435.00
677 Liberal Arts ················································-···-···-·---··········-····- 346
709.00
678 Altadena ····································-···················-··-········-·····-·····- 508
1,067.00
679
157
316.00
681
136
279.00
684 Trona -----··-·--···----·-···-····--·--·--·-·--- 141
290.00
No.
512
515
516
519
520
522
524
525
529
531
535
537
542
546
547
548
550
563
566

Lodge

~ix~~~~~~;~~~-~:::=::::::::::::::::::=:=::==::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~::1:1:~:.:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~::~~::~~:::::==~:~:::::::::~:::::::::::::::=::::::::::

I:°cu!br~~~:...::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::~_:::::::::::::

w~~:::::::::=:=::=:::::::==::::=::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

g:bpaf:so~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-.:::=-.::::

162
No.
685
689
690
691
693
694
695
696
697
698
699
700

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Total
Lodge
Members
759.50
San Marino ·························-····-········-························-················· 365
147.00
Pohona ···············································································-············· 72
754.50
San Carlos ····-·····-·--··········-·········-····-·····················-···-········- 352
l,o+U6
Indian Wells Valley-···-·-···-----·-------·-·-··· 337
419.60
Palm Springs--···································································-········ 168
497.50
San Antonio ·····································-······················-····-······-······· 201
345.75
Meudell ·····································································-····················· 166
600.00
Crossroads ·····················································-····-····-····················· 265
255.00
Saint Elmo •..•........•............................•..........................•.••.•...........• 127
979.00
William D. Stephens ······················································-····-····-· 115
753.75
Bixby Knolls ....•............................................................................... 270
546.00
Ponderosa ··-..······-·············-··················-····-··-················-··-··-··· 272
246.50
1
287.00
694.97
W estcliester ····-·············································································· 327
436.00
Hunters Point Naval ···························-····-··································· 200
453.00
Lorenzo ···········-·-············································································ 217
324.35
Anacapa ···-···-······································-·······························-····· 148
274.50
Rim of
World.....................................- .............................-.... 109
286.50
Los Altos ·······························-····-················································-· 132
325.00
Blue Lakes ···-················································································· 145
339.00
Magnolia Park ·······························································-··············· 154
Belmont Shore ................................................................................ 164
345.50
304.00
Wayfarer ··-····························-··-····-····-··········-··················-····· 130
132.00
195.50
181.00

~g~ ~:!e!de~---~~~::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::=~~:::::: ~~
703
706
709
710
711
712
714
715
716
717

the

~* ~~~~~~~~~~~ ,fi

722 George B. Tutt..·-····-····························-·······················-··············
723 Acalanes ·····························-······················-······················-···········
725 Saint John's ···································································-·················

101
92
100

~~~ ~~~d~~ ..H!ii;-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
728
729
730
731
732
733
734
737
739

Lakewood ···············································································-······· 121 ·
Centennial ........................................................................................ 72
Polaris --··························································································· 61
Two Rivers·······························-··········--····························-····--- 89
San Juan ···················································-········-···········-·········-··· 65
Golden Empire ·····································-··································--··· 65
Kit Carson ...................................................................................... 68
Hillsborough ···················-············-·-·············-··························-··· 69
La Canada ......................................................................................•. 69

8:8: ~=~d~::~:~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
U.D. Peninsula ···········-················-········-····-······················-·················

41

Southern Califanda Research. ..·-··-············································~·······-

66

H:8: 8Hthla;i~-:::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
U.D. Merced --··-·····-··-··········-············-················-········-····---······ 55
8:8: ~~~~n ~=
~~

: : .-: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

44450
205.00

26350
202.00
184.00
150.00
262.00
231.53
155.00
194.00
198.50
161.50
241.00
267.00
208.00
150.00
160.00
lH.00
237.00
103.00
119.00
120.00
91.50
100.00
175.00

163

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Jurisdiction of California maintains eighteen Boards of
Relief. Seven of these Boards have Employment Bureaus to further
assist our Masonic brethren and their families. In addition, seven of our
Boards operate Masonic Blood Banks.
These Boards of Relief are controlled and supervised by the Board
of Control of Grand Lodge. Under the ordinances, the Board of Control
is empowered to make such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for their effectual operation, and to standardize their work so
that their operations may be conducted economically and efBciently. The
Boards of Relief are required to report annually to Grand Lodge showing their work, their receipts and disbursements in detail, specifying
what has been expended for relief and how much thereof has been
repaid.
Conforming to these requirements, the Board of Control has prepared a set of rules and regulations for the effectual operation of Boards
of Relief. It 'has standardized their work by setting up a uniform accounting system, subject to annual audits, which now assures us that
each oftlce is economically operated and that their work is efficiently
accomplished. The uniform compact under which our Boards of Relief
operate and which ·has been signed by all member lodges, together with
the rules and regulations of the Board of Control and the Uniform
Accounting System, are all contained in a volume known as the "Standard Practice Bulletin." It also contains four forms which each Board
of Relief is re~uired to use as an annual report to the Board of Control.
These provide all of the information required by the ordinances and
permit the preparation of comparative statistics for closer scrutiny by
the Board of Control.
During the past year the work of the Board of Control has been
unusual and in some respects critical.
The unusual aspect of our work came about through the many
changes made in the management of our various ofBces. Since the last
Communication of Grand Lodge, it became necessary to replace seven
of the former secretaries of our Boards of Relief.
Early in November, Willard Tanzer, secretary of the Fresno Masonic Board of Relief. died after many years of faithful service to the
Fraternity. In April, the secretary of the Richmond Board, Harry '.P.
Chapman, died, leaving a vacancy in the Richmond office. As of January 1, Earl Trimmer of the Sacramento Board, Sam Worswick of the
East Bay Board, and Frank Wolff of Santa Monica Bay, retired. Robert Dill of San Diego resigned because of his wife's ill health. Jerry
Ritch left Glendale to become the controller for the City of Redding.
These changes of necessity placed an additional burden upon the Board

164

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

of Control in acquainting the new men with the duties of their office,
the requirements of Grand Lodge and of the Board of Control. Special
attention should be called to Earl Trimmer, Willard Tanzer and Frank
Wolff. They had served as secretaries of their boards since the date
of their original organization. We regret that time will not permit a full
review of the faithful Masonic activities of each of these Brothers. In
brief, let us record that the Fraternity is indebted to them for their
work and is proud to point to them as outstanding members of our Craft.
These changes in management in themselves pointed to a possible
critical year in our Boards of Relief. Yet, other problems added to the
seriousness of the picture. For example, a personal misunderstanding
within one of our Boards required the patient, serious and careful thinking of the Board of Control to prevent its reaching a critical stage.
Errors on both sides were aired and we believe that today there is a
complete understanding. Other problems being watched by the Board
of Control to prevent their development into the critical column have
to do with the problem of our Employment Bureaus and the many deli..
cate situations which surround the surplus funds of our Boards of Relief.
Briefly. the Board of Control would like to review these critical items
for your benefit.
Considerable thought has been given by the Board of Control to the
increasing costs of placing our members in jobs. Figures which will
appear later in this report will show that during the past year we have
placed 2,731 eligible persons in employment at a total cost of $50,680.00.
This means that each job secured cost us $18.55. The Board of Control. as was reported last year, continues its study of Employment Bureaus to determine the advisability and feasibility of maintaining such
a service from which relatively few receive benefits.
For many years, it was the practice of our Boards of Relief to create
surplus funds sufficient to meet emergencies. In this they were encouraged by the Board of Control. Several years back, it was determined
that some of these surplus accounts had grown way beyond their required need.
The Board of Control then suggested to the various Boards that a
reduction be made to an amount equal to their operating expense for
one year. Gradually these surplus funds have approximated that amount.
It is the opinion of the Board of Control that this surplus fund may
still be too great. It represents the impounding of monies obtained by
assessment from Blue Lodges. It has always been the thought of our
Boards of Relief and the Board of Control that they should be prepared to meet any catastrophe which might arise. It can be argued on
the other side that any great catastrophe will require the assistance of
Grand Lodge and probably all California Masonry should sucli an
occasion occur and it is now the sincere thinking of the Board of Con-

GRAND LODGI'! OP CALIFORNIA

165

trol that perhaps the surplus funds held in trust by our Boards of Relief
should be further reduced.
T'hese and similar problems are receiving constant consideration by
the Board of Control and we wish to assure this Grand Lodge that
they will continue to be watched until each problem is solved to the
ultimate good of this Jurisdiction.
REPORT OP BOARDS OP RELIEF

As is required, all Boards of Relief have placed on file with the
Board of Control a complete detailed record of their activities during
the past Masonic year. As previously reported, all of these have been
audited by qualified accountants and have been carefully analyzed by
the Board of Control. During the past year our Boards of Relief report
as follows:
Advance for Relief... ................... $54,325.59
953
Funerals conducted ....................
31,918
.............
Total calls made...............
13,636
Sick ..............................................
660
Investigations ..............................
9 ,315
Relief calls ....................................
8,307
Miscellaneous calls......................
Seven of our Masonic Boards of Relief maintain blood banks for
the benefit of our Masonic brethren and their families. During the
Masonic year just past their reports indicate as follows:
Units of Blood Donated...............,.. ....... 2,392
Units of Blood Withdrawn. .................2,629
This has r~sulted in a direct saving to our brethren of $66,257.50.
REPORT OP EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

In this Grand Jurisdiction, we maintain seven Employment Bureaus
extending from the East Bay to San Diego. The reports of the Employment Bureaus, like those of Boards of Relief. have all been subject to
audits by qualified accountants and have been closely reviewed by the
Board of Control. Their report indicates that during the past year:
Registered for employment.............- ...7,605
Placed in employment..........................2, 731
Positions offered by employers .......:....6,038
Were we to charge the fee allowed commercial employment agencies
within the state, our Employment Bureaus would have earned a total
of $236,310.85.
REQUESTS FOR APPROPRIATION S

The Board of Control has received a request from all of our Em..
ployment Bureaus for appropriations from Grand Lodge to carry on
their work for the next fiscal year. All of these requests conform to a
formula established by the Board of Control. Under this formula, it

167

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND 'LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

is agreed that the Board of Control will consider a recommendation to
Grand Lodge of a sum not greater than the total contributed by the
member lodges. In many cases, the appropriations asked for are not
the maximum permitted under the formula. These requests, as is required, have been referred to the Finance Committee for its consideration and have received the approval and recommendation of the Board
of Control. They are as follows:
East Bay ........................................$2,500.00
Glendale ........................................ 300.00
Long Beach .................................... 2,182.00
Los Angeles .................................. 6.500.00
San Diego ...................................... 2,435.00
San Francisco ................................ 1,500.00

Case No. 7-The Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco requests
reimbursement in the amount of $35.00 for relief extended a member
of Kenmore Lodge No. 947, Chicago, Illinois. The total amount of relief
advanced in this case was $70.00 and the Lodge has reimbursed the
Board of Relief in the amount of $25.00 but refused to honor the balance due.
Case No. 8-The Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco requests
reimbursement in the amount of $39.00 for relief extended a member of
Crystal Lodge No. 1025, Chicago, Illinois.
The Board of Control wishes to report that every reasonable effort
has been made to secure payment of these accounts through customary
sources without avail. We, therefore, recommend them to you for your
consideration and approval. When you consider that the secretaries of
our 18 Boards of Relief have advanced during the past Masonic year
nearly $55,000 for relief. we feel that the request for reimbursement of
only $462.80 is a high tribute to the efficiency with which these offices
are managed.

166

Total... .............................$15,417.00
REQUESTS FOR REIMBURSEMENTS
The Board of Control has carefully reviewed the requests of the
San Francisco, East Bay and Sacramento Boards of Relief. Each case
has been reviewed separately and upon its own merits and we have
recommended to the Finance Committee and recommend to Grand Lodge
that the above listed boards be made whole for the monies which they
have advanced for relief. Each case is briefly outlined herewith:
Case No. I-Sacramento Board of Relief requests reimbursement in
the amount of $45.00 for funds advanced to a widow of a member of
Lakewood Lodge No. 601, F. & A.M. of the Grand Jurisdiction of Ohio.
Case No. 2-The East Bay Board of Relief has requested that it be
made whole in the amount of $25.00 for monies advanced to a member
of Dundee Lodge No. 994, A.F. & A.M. of Holiday, Texas.
Case No. 3--The Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco requests
reimbursement in the amount of $243.80 for monies advanced to a member of Coupar O'Fife Lodge No. 19 of Coupar, Scotland. The Grand
Lodge of Scotland has advanced $181.20 against a total of $425.00,
leaving the balance of $243.80.
Case No. 4-The Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco requests
reimbursement in the amount of $40.00 for relief extended to a member
of Montana Lodge No. 2 of Ellis, Montana. This represents one...-half
of the amount advanced to our brother and seems to be the maximum
that his Lodge is able to pay.
Case No. 5-The Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco requests
reimbursement in the amount of $20.00 for relief extended a member of
Patria ·Lodge No. 61, San Juan, Porto Rico.
Case No. 6-The Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco requests
reimbursement in the amount of $15.00 for relief extended a member of
Union Lodge No. 7, Junction City, Kansas.

BoARD OF CONTROL
The Board wishes to take this opportunity to express its appreciation
for the fine cooperation it has received from the secretaries of Boards of
Relief, the managers of Employment Bureaus, and all of the duly elected
representatives of our Boards of Relief. It has been a pleasure to work
with these brethren. We wish, also, to express our sincere appreciation
to those secretaries who for one reason or another have left their positions during the past year.
EXPIRATION OF TERM OF OFFICE OF BOARD MEMBERS
John T. Martin..................1955......•....... Reginald M. Mills
Jack C. Butler....................1956.......•.............. Guy A. Tolle
1957
Harry F. White
Respectfully submitted,
}ACK C. BUTLER, Chairman
Referred to Committee on Finance.

169

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON 36th
ANNUA L OBSERV ANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOOL S WEEK

Public Schools Week program, the Grand Master announce d his offer
to present embossed copies of the Pledge of Allegiance to pupils writing
suitable essays on The Public School.
Local committees were given every freedom in the matter of setting
up such contests with their school authorities.
The presentati on of the Pledges was made a feature in many school
programs.
The California Teachers Association again supported our program
by sending a kit of materials to the schools, furnished slides to radio
stations and ·helped in many other ways. More than 300,000 copies of
their pamphlet "Be Proud California " were distributed through outside groups.
Through the cooperation of the Postmaste r General, over 40,000,000
pieces of mail carried our observanc e dates and message.
In response to many requests, the General Committee this year arranged with a printing company to supply local committees with various
types of material required for promotion purposes.
At the firm's OW"n expense, designs were made for car cards, window
streamers, show window cards, bumper strips and gummed stickers.
All contained the message and dates of Public Schools Week. Over
50,000 pieces were used in this, the first year of this type of promotion.
Through a motion picture concern, movie slides were offered to
lodge committees at a nominal fee to further promote the Week. The
·
idea met with fine acceptance.
window space for
devoted
stores
t
This year .several departmen
tions.
demonstra
live class
All who have gone into Polk Hall have had the opportuni ty to view
the work of the committees. It demonstra tes better than words the outcome of your efforts. I have placed a photograp h on the pin board of
our 1950 display. The transition is wonderful. Please take back to
your committees our appreciation for a task well done. It is our hope
that others will be inspired next year to outdo this performance. This
is your program, keep it strong, keep it moving forward, keep it on the
present high plane of acceptability.
It is always a difficult task to make a formal acknowledgment of
thanks to all of those who contribute to Public Schools Week.
Many serve anonymously. Others have been so identified with the
program through the years that there is always the danger of their
help being taken for granted.
First of all, of course, there are those legion of school teachers and
administration authoritie s without whose generous and unstinted help
there would be no Public Schools Week. Along with these should be
mentioned the State Superin,tendent of Public Instruction.

168

To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of California:

This is the sixth year that it has been my pleasure to report to you
the activities of the Public Schools Week Committee.
Public Schools Week has been one of the outstandin g public service
features of the Grand Lodge since 1919.
It was conceived as a means of arousing public interest in our schools
at a time of crisis following World War I when many schools were
understaffed. Many teachers failed to return at the conclusion of their
war service.
As an aftermath of the war, too, there was a marked increase in
school populations and practically no new classrooms to take care of
the augmente d enrollments.
The Grand Lodge sponsored a statewide movement to bring the
proportions of this desperate situation to the attention of the people.
Condition s improved, but one year was not enough. The need that
created Public Schools Week has never been completely met.
Gradually the realization developed that whether this need is ever
met, Public Schools Week still will serve a worthy purpose in providing for an annual accounting of what the schools are doing and in
keeping alive the people's interest in an institution that has been a part
of our life since early colonial days.
So through the years Grand Lodge has underwrit ten and conducted
the Observan ce with modesty and with sincerity.
We have conducted the Observan ce on a good, sound public relations basis. There are many definitions of public relations but the one
I like best is "Public Relations is doing the deed rather than talking
about it." I believe, that the good which you do, always catches up
with you.
Public Schools Week observance in the program commemorating
its 36th anniversa ry again demonstra ted that it is a Jive and growing
activity by the increasing number of schools and organizations par·
ticipating and by the larger attendanc e recorded.
Schools
Public
California
the
in
There is a fast growing interest
Many
ns.
Jurisdictio
Grand
other
of
number
great
Week program in a
stages.
planning
the
in
are
others
and
underway
programs
have
Official recognition was again given to our program by the support
of the Chief Justice, the Governor s of California and Hawaii.
The California Legislature adopted two Resolutions, one sponsored
in the Assembly by four members, and another Resolution sponsored
by 75 members of the same body. practically the entire Assembly.
In his Proclamation issued in connection with the 36th annual

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Governor, the mayors of countless cities and communities,
and members of many governing bodies and service clubs. Mention
has already been made of the California Legislature, which this year
joined in a most unusual testimonial.
The press, radio and television stations, innumerable ftrms who
helped in a multitude of ways to further the ends of the observance
can only be given this blanket expression of appreciation.
Our written report which will be distributed to you carries a list of
the many leaders or organizations who have furnished us with supporting statements.
To the concordant Masonic organizations we give a special vote of
thanks for their continued cooperation with our General Committee in
the promotion program.
After more than three decades of experience, certainly Public Schools
Week has had its full opportunity to demonstrate its worth, the soundness of its cause and the effectiveness of its program.
We believe Public Schools Week has done just that as attested by
the ever increasing army of volunteers who serve in its ranks under the
s·ponsorship of Masonry.
However, all recurring events, anniversaries and other occasions
that periodically call for public attention require review from time to
time. At the holiday season we are urged to remember the true meaning
and purpose of Christmas; on the Fourth of July in many ways we are
urged to rededicate our lives to the Democracy that the Fourth symbolizes.
Thus it is that Public Schools Week keeps alive the interest of
parents and all thoughtful citizens in the welfare of our schools, the
effectiveness of their courses of study in the matter of preparing our
youth for citizenship.
We believe that Masonry can be justly proud of heading the legion
of civic-minded men and women who annually rally to the cause of
this program.
Neither piety, virtue nor liberty can long flourish in a community
where the education of youth is neglected.
It is our recommendation that the Public Schools Week Committee
be continued and that the sum of $4,000 be appropriated to carry on
the Observance.
Appended hereto are exhibits showing the advance report as circulated to the lodges which includes the several proclamations, etc.
Respectfully submitted,

ADVANCE REPORT AS DISTRIBUT ED
TO THE LODGES

170

GEORGE D. GAVIN,

For the Committee

171

FOREWO RD
Pwblic Schools Week observance in the program commemorating
its 36th anniversary again demonstrated that it is a live and growing
activity by the increasing number of scliools and organizations participating and by the larger attendance recorded.
Added stature was given to the observance by the volume of inquiries
received from outside the jurisdiction and 'by the number of other states
planning similar programs.
Chief Justice Earl Warren, long a staunch supporter of Pll'blic
Schools Week, again took time away from his heavy court schedule
to send his personal message to fellow Californians urging their continued participation in the event, declaring:
"All of us have a tremendous ·stake in the security of our hopes and
ideals. and the heritage we leave depends on our willlngness to share
in such common responsibilities now."
Governor Goodwin J. Knight issued a proclamation and in various
ways at his command forwarded the interests of the event. The California Legislature adopted two Resolutions, one sponsored in the Assembly by four members, and another Resolution sponsored by 75
members of the same body, practically the entire Assemhly.
The California Teachers Association once more did trojan service,
mobilizing the school authorities throughout the state to join with local
committees in •plans for the week. A large kit of materials was ·mailed
to each school head, embracing a wide range of detailed suggestions
as to programming special events. Slides were distributed by the organization to all television stations.
And speaking of television, the general committee was fortunate
in having the services of James Connolly, vice-president of the American Broadcasting Company, who served as chairman of radio and television participation and brought an increasing volume o'f public service
time to the program.
The General Committee here wishes to express its appreciation for
the generous help of the Postmaster General, who made poss~le the
use of special cancellation hub dies in major post offices of the state,
carrying the message of Public Schools Week on millions of pieces of
mail throughout the world.
We wish also to acknowledge the help of the press, both in its news
coverage and in editorial support. In this same connection we want to
thank the various fraternal bodies, 1both inside and outside of the Masonic Fraternity, that ·helped the event, the various civic bodies and
officials. We reserve last mention to that army of local committ~ who

172

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

sponsored, planned and executed their local programs in conjunction
with the General Committee.

The "Why" of Public Schools Week
Although Public Schools Week has been one of the outstanding
public service features of the Grand Lodge since 1919 it is perhaps
pertinent in a report such as this to go on the assumption that these
pages may be read by some who are unfamiliar with its background and
plli'poses.
· Public School Week was conceived as a means of arousing public
interest in our schools at a time of crisis following World War I when
many schools were understaffed. Many teachers failed to return at the
conclusion of their war service.
As an aftermath of the war, too, there was a marked increase in
school populations and practically no new classrooms to take care of
the augmented enrollments.
·
The Grand Lodge sponsored a statewide movement to bring the
proportions of this desperate situation to the attention of the people.
Minute men addressed rallies of parents. Newspapers were asked to
point up the issue with editorials and print news accounts of local needs.
Conditions improved, but one year was not enough. The need that
. created Pulblic Schools Week has never 1been completely met. A measurable lag in classroom teachers and classrooms has continued to trail
behind California's booming school population.
Gradually the realization developed that whether this need is ever
met Public Schools Week still will serve a worthy purpose in providing
for an annual accounting of what the schools are doing and in keeping
alive the people's interest in an institution that :has been a part of our
life since early colonial days.
1

The Mechanics of the Program
Public Schools Week functions through a General Committee, composed of mem'bers selected from various parts of the jurisdiction and
some six hundred local committees named !by the Masters of the Lodges.
The General Committee begins its active work in December, although
its work is never completely suspended due to the volume of correspondence required to take care of inquiries from lodges outside the jurisdiction, school officials and others. The General Chairman holds conferences to review the previous year's program and develop new ideas,
new approaches for the oncoming observance.
A preliminary letter is prepared to be mailed early in January to all
Masters. This letter calls attention to the dates of the up.-coming program, urges early appointment of the committee and outlines the material
that will be supplied by the General Committee, the highlights of the
latter's plans to stimulate the event on a statewide 1basis and a suggested
list of promotion suggestions for local committees.

173

At the same time a letter is prepared to !be mailed simultaneously to
some 1400 school administrators and principals, calling their attention
to the dates of Public Schools Week and urging early planning and
consultation with local committees.
The participation of various statewide organizations is solicited at
this time, with requests for statements that can be used for publicity
purposes. This sometimes requires numerous follow-up letters before the
task is consummated.
The succeeding weeks are filled with negotiations, development of
special features and the production of materials promised to the local
committees. These include a special press book with suggested new~
paper stories and editorials: a radio and television book: a speaker's
handbook: a copy of "Guide for Planning," when requested: a list of
materials to be ordered from a central printing arrangement, and the
cost thereof (all other materials being supplied free of charge by the
General Committee).
All of this material is distributed as early as possible. The timing
is entirely determined by the receipt of publicity statements received
from various organizations. Every effort, however, is made to expedite
this part of the program.
Once this mailing goes forward the General Committee then turns
all of its attention to the supplemental things done to help promote the
program on a statewide basis. This includes follow-up with various
Masonic and other fraternal bodies, the development of our metered
mail program with lai"ge corporations, special radio and television network tie-ins and numerous other projects.
·

•

Back to School
The General Committee recommends that the local committees endeavor to organize their programs within six to eight weeks. This refers
to the intensive part of the work. There are always preliminary steps
to be taken, reviewing past ·programs, getting the dates fixed in the local
environment in order to prevent conflicting interests and other details.
The entire drive is to get the public to go back to school, if for just
a day. What the school authorities have to offer of course depends on
the teacher but they are always responsive to ideas and suggestions of
the local committee where practical and within the authority of the
school officials.
However, local committees are finding it highly effective to also
reverse this procedure. They encourage the people to go to the schools
but in order to doubly assure the school message getting over they also
devise ways and means of bringing the schools to the people. They do
this in various ways-dubs' programs, exhibits of school work in stores,
radio and television panel discussions and other devices.
..,,
.......... .
~

175

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

In recent years there has been a remarkable increase in attendance
school programs throughout the state and the Committee believes
the
at
this is solely the result of the intensified efforts that have been developed.

The General Committee with Mr. Connolly's approval produced a
ten-page radio and television booklet, including a fact sheet covering
the history of the event, the widespread acceptance of the program and
highpointing the present crisis in the shortage of teachers and class•
rooms.
The remainder of the ·booklet was devoted to announcements, including messages from the Grand Master and nearly a score of presidents
of statewide organiz·ations and high ranking public officials.
The impact of this campaign was evidenced in the marked increase
in the volume of both radio and television time. One network televised
a program that was broadcast throughout the West.

174

California Teacher• A.aaociation Help•
It was a happy day when the General Committee approached Dr.
Arthur Corey, Executive Secretary of the California Teachers Association, and solicited the cooperation of his organization in the matter of
stimulating the widest possible participation of the schools in the program of Public Schools Week. His quick acceptance of the invitation
was followed at once with a series of suggestions to the school authorities that immediately activated many schools in the undertaking that
had not formerly participated.
In addition to general communications on the subject to school officials the Association in the 36th annual Observance produced its own
helpful brochure telling the teachers how to plan and develop such a
program. In this mailing also went copies of a suggested proclamation
to be issued by the Mayor or other governing officials, a form of resolution for any organization to adopt and radio announcements. Every
television station was presented with three slides ·promoting Public
Schools week.
Perhaps the most impressive contribution to the 1955 program by
this resourceful organization was a pamphlet entitled "Be Proud California," dedicated to the public schools of the state and setting forth the
reasons for Public Schools Week. These were offered to the 450 ·chapters of the Association, to school districts and local teacher clubs at cost.
A total of 310,000 copies were puKhased on this basis and given
statewide distn"bution to parents and others visiting the schools during
the week. This is an impressive testimonial of the effectiveness of the
cooperation of the California Teachers Association in Public Schools
Week observance.

RADIO AND TELEVISION
The General Committee was fortunate indeed to have James Connolly, vice-president of the American Broadcasting Company, to serve
as chairman of radio and television for the 36th annual program. Much
of the success of this phase of the observance is due to his energy and
resourcefulness in shaping up plans for the industry's participation.
Over his own signature and on his own stationery he addressed a
personal letter to the top executives of all stations in the state calling
attention to the im·p ortance of the job done by Public Schools Week
and urging the fullest possible participation.
"This is a public service program that I think commends itself to
all of us in the industry and calls for an all-out effort to make it a success," he said in his appeal for support.

THE SUPPORT OF THE PRESS
In any undertaking such as Pulblic Schools Week the press continues to be the first line of defense. Public Schools Week down through
the years has enjoyed wide support, both editorially and in the generous
amount of news space devoted to the event.
Due to the growing participation of schools and the increasing activity of local committees a marked growth in volume of newspaper space
is noted. Some newspapers now have adopted a plan of devoting an
entire section to the schools and to the program of the week.
The General Committee, as has been its custom for a number of
years, prepared a press book of fifteen pages, containing suggested newspaper stories, editorials and other usable material. Each local committee
was supplied with a copy of this with instructions as to its use.
Although unsolicited, much of the newspaper accounts of the event
as well as the·editorial comment have given Masonry credit for its sponsorship of a cause so vital to American democracy.

THE SPEAKERS HANDBOOK
One of the important features of Puiblic Schools Week is the program of speaking :before various organizations and groups. Some of
the hardest workers and perhaps the most unsung are those who give
their daytime hours or evenings to go before various meetings to talk
·
on the subject of Pu1blic Schools Week.
Because of the wide acceptance of this event, local committees frequently ftnd themselves embarrassed with so many requests that at times
it is difBcult to supply the demand.
If the meetings are in advance of the week they offer an opportunity
not only to inform civic-minded citizens of the importance of Public
Schools Week but also inspire attendance at one or more school attractions.
If the meeting is during Pulblic Schools Week the speaker at least
gets his message before individuals who might otherwise be untouched
by the program.

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

To help in the development of such a program the General Committee early supplies each local committee with a speaker's handboo k.
The 1955 edition was a thirty-tw o page volume carrying a picture of
Chief Justice Earl Warren and his message on Public Schools Week;
also a picture of Governo r Goodwin J. Knight signing the Public Schools
Week Proclamation.
Perhaps nothing else issued by the General Committee so impressively reflects the growth and wide acceptance of Public Schools Week.

SCHOO LS ESSAY CONTE ST AND AWARDS
In his Proclamation issued in connection with the 36th annual Public
Schools Week program the Grand Master announc ed his offer to present
embossed copies of the Pledge of Allegiance to pupils writing suitable
essays on The Public School.
Local committees were given every freedom in the matter of setting
up such contests with their school authorities. Many committees took
advantag e of the opportun ity and a large number of schools joined in the
undertak ing.
The presenta tion of the Pledges was made a feature in many school
programs. Judging from the enthusiasm of those responsible for this
special event there is every indication that this will become an annual
activity of Public Schools Week.
A reproduction of the Pledge of Allegiance will be found elsewhere
in this report.

POSTM ASTER GENER AL LENDS A HAND
Postmas ter General Summerfield repeated his fine gesture of support
to Public Schools Week which he first made last year when he authorized six major post offices in California to use cancellation hubs carrying
the message of Public Schools Week. Several addition al cities were
added to the list ·b y local committees and postmast ers.
Among the post offices used in the 1955 program were: San Francisco,
Los Angeles, Oakland , Sacramento, Fresno and San Diego. All offices
put the cancellation hubs in operation the middle of March and carried
them through to midnight of the last day of Public Schools Week,
April 30th.
During that time it is estimated over 40,000.000 pieces of mail in all
classifications, through the rotation system employed by the postal
authorities, carried the dates of the week and the urge "Visit Your
Schools."
The only cost to the General Committee was that of the die hubs.
However, in this the Californ ia Teachers Association generously agreed
to meet half of the ·bill.
In addition to this feature the General Committee, together with
many of the 1oca1 committees, prevailed on numerous large users of

GRANP LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

177

metered mail to carry a similar message on their office mailing equipment. All together countles s pieces of mail recognized Public Schools
Week in this fashion.

A CENTR AL SOURC E FOR SUPPLIES

In response to many requests the General Committee this year
arranged with a printing company to supply local committees with various types of material required for promotion purposes.
At the firm's own expense designs were made for car cards, window
streamers, quarterc ards (show window cards), bumper strips and gum
stickers. All containe d the message and dates of Public Schools Week.
Local committees were supplied samples and costs.
The printing company reported that a large number of committees
took advantag e of this arrangem ent and the plan undoubt edly helped in
giving uniformity to the displays made in advertising the Week. Over
50,000 pieces were used in this, the first year of this type of promotion.
Through a motion picture concern, movie slides were offered to lodge
committees at a nominal fee to further promote the Week. The idea met
with fine acceptance.

BRING ING THE SCHOO LS TO THE PEOPLE

In a joint effort on the part of the General Committee and the San
Francisco Public Schools Week Committee a new venture was tried.
The Emporium, one of San Francisc o's largest retail stores, agreed
to devote one of its large Market Street windows and the San Francisc o
School Departm ent accepted the opportun ity to conduct daily classes
demonst rating significant work being done hy the Departm ent.
There were morning and afternoo n sessions. A system of loud
speakers carried the work of the classes to the throngs gatherin g outside.
The window area was set up as a typical class room and along with the
American flag were posters carrying promotional messages for Public
Schools Week. Certain classes were televised and radio broadcas t.
Both the School Departm ent and The Emporium were highly gratified with the results of the experiment, which was also used in other
cities to good advantag e.

WHAT OTHER S HA VE TO SAY

About This Jurisdiction's Public Schools Week
THOMAS J. HARKINS , 33°. Sovereign Grand Commander
Southern Jurisdiction
Ancient and Accepte d Scottish Rite of Freemas onry:
"I have taken the liberty of mentioning you, your organiza tion and
your work in the interest of Public Schools Week in my allocution which
will ·be presente d to the Supreme Council at its meeting this Fall. I am
recommending your work and organization, especially to those who do
not participa te in School Week celebrations.

178

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Your plan is the best plan that has come to my attention and I believe
that your work in California is the most efficient and I should like to see
many of the jurisdictions as will to become acquainted with your plan
and your method of operation."
CLYDE I. RusH,Grand Secretary

Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Idaho:
"I spent most of this morning reading the various letters, instructions, press !book, Speakers' Handbook. etc .• that you sent me. I was
amazed at the thoroughness of your preparations. I doubt if anyone
could find a minor detail that was overlooked. And out of it all I ftnd
the simplest and yet most powerful statement made by you in just a
few words on page 17 of the Speakers' Handbook where you said'They (the people) identify the Public School with everything that our
country stands for. They look back on the days of their own school
years and appreciate the inftuence and importance of the Public School
on their own life.
"I hope your 36th observance broke all records for attendance. participation and beneficial results, and I am sure it has been an inspiration
to all good Americans withersoever dispersed, who know what you
have ibeen and are doing."
JoHN McKEE, Chairman

Texas Citizens Committee
Public Schools Week:
"It looks like when we get around to Public Sthools Week we begin
thinking of each other. Certainly I do a'bout you and your ftne work
and the assistance you have given us in the past.
"Our Public Schools Week starts Monday, March 7th, and this
will be our fifth annual Public Schools Week in Texas. We are anticipating an attendance throughout the state in excess of 1,500,000. I am
having ·s ent to you under separate cover, all of the material we have
distributed. You will see that we are still following to a great extent
the California pattern. I intend to continue to follow it, as your program
under your leadership has been so successful that the ibasic principles
should be adopted by every Grand Jurisdiction."
PAUL B. HABANS, Chairman Education Committee

Grand Lodge of the State of Louisiana
Free and Accepted Masons:
"The kit on PU'blic Schools Week has been turned over to me by our
Grand Secretary and, of course, I find therein some very interesting
material which I am endeavoring to study and make use of as far as they
apply here.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

179

"From an administrative point of view I would like to know the size
appropriation for this activity in your state and the amount of
the
of
money expended for the 1955 program .•• We are seeking to develop
a program comparable to yours."
GEORGE L. BucK, Chairman Masonic Research and Education

Grand Lodge of F. & A. M.
State of Washington
"Our Grand Secretary has turned over to me the kit of material on
California Public Schools Week that you so kindly sent us. We are
attempting to start something along similar lines and this will prove
invaluable."
WILBUR L. MclvER, Grand Secretary

Grand, Lodge
Free & Accepted Masons of North Carolina:
"Many thanks for the kit of material sent us on your Public Schools
Week . . • It is hoped this will be used by our Grand Master and
others ~ho are interested in such a program for North Carolina."
H. D. PROUDFOOT, P.GM.• Grand Secretary

Grand Lodge of A. F. & A. M. of Oregon:
"Our incoming Grand Master has evidenced considerable interest
in the ·possibility of this jurisdiction initiating something in a small way
comparable to what the Grand Lodge of California has done. I know he
will be more than pleased to review the materials you have so kindly
supplied us."
ARTHUR H. STRICKLAND, Grand Secretary

The M. W. Grand Lodge of A. F. & A. M. of Kansas:
"I took the liberty last year of supplying our Grand Master with a
kit of material on your California Pulblic Schools Week for his study
and in his address he referred to it, although here in Kansas we do not
have any particular program. I am sending this material on to our present
Grand Master so that he can be familiar with your program in case he
may !be considering one here in Kansas."
HARRY W. BUNDY, Grand Secretary.

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
A. F. & A. M. of Colorado:
"We have received the packet of material on the California Public
Scsools Week program and we are deeply appreciative of your continued
interest in our own program along these lines. I am also indebted to
you for the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag. We are using that for
display and may take the l!berty of adopting it for publidty if our Public
Schools Week Committee desire to have it done."

180

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

E. F. STRAIN, Grand Secretary
Grand Lodge Free & Accepted Masons of South Dakota:
"We are strongly in favor of the program you have instituted and
are so successful with in your Grand Jurisdiction.
"Have been noting the work you have been doing in California for
the past ten or twelve years, and watched with interest the reports your
Grand Secretary and Grand Masters have ·been giving to our annual
conferences in Washingt on. D. C."
BARNETT E. MARKS, Chairman Public Schools Week Committee

Grand Lodge of Free & Accepted Masons of Arizona:
"Your committee has done a fine Job in this most worthwhile project
• We are trying to imitate what you are doing as I regard this as the
most valuable project we are engaged in."
IRVING E. CLARK, Grand Secretary

Grand Lodge Free & Accepted Masons of Wyoming :
"I am happy to inform you that a decision was reached at our 80th
Annual Communication to set up a program of this nature in Wyoming .
Our M. W. Grand Master. Brother 0. H. Gerhard Jacobsen; Deputy
Grand Master Ralph E. McWhinnie and Junior Grand Warden
Brother Franklin J. DeForest, are all vitally interested."
RALPH L. PUGH, Grand ·Master
Grand Lodge Free & Accepted Masons of North Carolina:
"We are making our plans for the observance of Public Schools
Week in North Carolina . . . Believe me. I am deeply appreciative of
all the assistance you can render us.
"In North Carolina for some years now we have been witnessing
the public schools of the state facing a problem that was be_coming difBcult. Masons throughout the state have concluded that the time is long
past due when we should concentrate our efforts in behalf of our public
school system. I believe you have established an excellent leadership in
this respect."
1

GEORGE AVERY, Grand Secretary
The Most Ancient and Honorable Fraternity
Of Free and Accepted Masons of Pennsylvania and
Masonic Jurisdiction Thereunto Belonging.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania:
"Thank you very kindly for the information that you sent me on California's Public Schools Week. I have found it most interesting and
thought provoking."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

181

AARON H. GROUT. Grand Secretary

Grand Lodge of Most Ancient and Honorable
Society of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of Vermont, Burlington. Vermont:
"Both our Grand Master and my humble self have much pleasure
and improvement in reading and studying your program."

SPECIAL ACKNO WLEDG MENT

It is always a difficult task to make a formal acknowledgment of
thanks to all of those who contribute to make Public Schools Week one
of the outstanding civic programs of the year.
Many serve anonymously. Others have been so identified with the
program through the years that there is always the danger of their help
being taken for granted.
First of all, of course, there are those legion of school teachers and
administration authorities without whose generous and unstinted help
there would be no Public Schools Week. Along with these should •be
mentioned the State Superintendent of Public Instruction and the California Teachers Association previously mentioned.
The Governor, the mayors of countless cities and communities, and
members of many governing bodies and service dubs. Mention has already ·been made of the California Legislature, which this year joined in
a most unusual testimonial.
The press, radio and television stations, innumerable firms who
helped in a multitude of ways to further the ends of the observance
can only lbe given this <blanket expression of appreciation.
The General Committee wishes to especially express appreciation
to the Grand Master and to the following for the statements furnished
for publicity purposes:
Hon. Earl Warren, Chief Justice, Supreme Court of the United
States.
. Hon. Goodwin J. Knight, Governor of California.
Hon. Samuel Wilder King, Governor of Hawaii.
Robert C. Gillingham, President. California Teachers Association.
Carl F. Wente, President. California State Chamber of Commerce.
Malcolm M. Champlin, State Commander, the American Legion.
Vaughn D. Seidel. President, California Association of School Administrators.
Mrs. A. Kenneth Spencer, President, California Congress of Parents
and Teachers, Inc.
Mrs. Joseph C. Wenger, President, California Federatio n of W omen's Clubs.
George H. Wilson, President. California Farm Bureau Federation.
Mrs. Delbert C. Brown, State President, American Legion Auxiliary.
Mrs. Walter C. Fell. President, California State Division American
Association of University Women.

182

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Leslie W. Hedge. President. California Association of Secondary
School Administrators.
Roy E. Simpson, State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
DeWitt A. Higgs, President, The State Bar of California.
C. J. Haggerty, Secretary-Treasu~er, .'California. Federatio? of Labor.
To the affiliated Masonic organizations we give a special vote of
thanks for their continued cooperation with our General Committee in
the promotion program.
And then, of course, to those hundreds of workers making up the
various local committees who are the all important infantry in the campaign to make the Public School the concern of all citizens. Without
these assault troops the promotion of PUblic Schools Week would he
impossllble.

PROCLAMATION OF THE GRAND MASTER

RECAPITULATION
After more than three decades of experience, certainly Public Schools
Week has had its full opportunity to demonstrate its worth, the soundness of its cause and the effectiveness of its program.
We believe Public Schools Week has done just that as attested by
the ever increasing army of volunteers who serve in its ranks under the
sponsorship of Masonry.
.
However, all recurring events, anniversaries and other oc~asions
that periodically call for public attention require review from time. to
time. At the holiday season we are urged to remember the true meaning
and purpose of Christmas; on the Fourth of July in many ways we are
urged to rededicate our lives to the Democracy that the Fourth symbolizes.
Thus it is that Public Schools Week keeps alive the interest of parents and all thoughtful citizens in the welfare of our schools, the effectiveness of their courses of study in the matter of preparing our youth
for citizenship.
We ·believe that Masonry can be justly proud of heading the legion
of civic-minded men and women who annually rally to the cause of this
program.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE D. GAVIN,

Chairman of the General Committee
LowELL K. BAIN
PERRY H. BARRETT
HARRY L. BUCKALEW
A.C.CURRIE
WILLIAM L CURRIE
RUSSELL DEFOREST
GEORGE L. EDMONDSON
SAMUEL F. FINLEY
WILLIAM
GILL
CARL

w.

RICHARD A. INGRAM
FONG Q. JING
FORREST H. KECK
HERSHAL
LAY
DELMER
MAY
A TWILL MORGAN
FRED
0RGAR
GEORGE K. PALMER
ROBERT A. SMITH
WILLIAMS

J.

w.
w.

c.

M.

183

w. HENRY c. CLAUSEN

The 36th Annual Public Schools Week will be observed April 25
through April 30, 1955.
For the past thirty-six years, Public School Week in California has
been a means of calling attention to the functions and needs of our public
schools. It is a Masonic sponsored event. Inaugurated in the 1920's
because of a crisis confronting our public schools in a shortage of teachers, funds and facilities, today the need for the event is even more critical
but for different reasons.
Years ago the American public schools shook off the old world, hard
dogmatism of the dark ages. They broke through layers of prejudice
and superstition to emerge and grow and Bower in our free soil. They
now carry out the typically American concept that schools under college
grade should be paid for and run by the people, as free schools, so every
boy and girl in the land may have a chance to get ahead in life according
to merit instead of money. They are a product of the free, equal-opportunity-for-all spirit of American institutions. There is inherent in that idea
the further American concept that public schools should ·be sanctuaries
of religious freedom. Thus, they are protected by law from sectarian
intrusion. As a vast melting pot in a nation of diverse creeds, religions
and races, they train our children truly into a unified, intelligent American citizenry. In the words of our United States Supreme Court:
"The pu'blic school is at once the symbol of our democracy and
the most pervasive means for promoting our common destiny."
I, therefore;, proclaim and direct:
That all Lodges observe the 36th Annual PU'blic Schools WeekApril 25-30, 1955, and that no Lodge meeting be held during that week
except stated meetings and for the Public Schools Week Observances.
That all Lodges. in cooperation 'with the Grand Lodge PU'blic Schools
Week Committee, help the public, the teachers, and the chtldren attain
a better understanding of the origin, development and purpose of the
American Public School System; and, to thi-s end·, that Committees
arrange with local schools for contests by the children in under collegiate
grades to write essays and compositions on this subject, the winners to
receive prizes donated oby Congress; these prizes to be awarded during
Public Schools Week at suita!hle ceremonies;
That there be created a Masonic Public School Scholarship Fund
whereby two awards will be made annually through a University in the
North and one in the South for the best thesis by graduate students
working for doctorates in education, on the subject of the origin, development and purpose of the American Public School System;
That the Craft of California, by unity and action, assist in assuring
that there be included in the required studies of these public schools
1

6RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

,

184

PROCEEDINGS OP TH!.

of California training in the origin, development and purposes of the
American Public School System.
That this Proclamation be read at each stated meeting prior to April
25, 1955.
Proclam ation of

THE GOVER NOR OF CAUFO RNIA

HoN. GooDWIN J. KNIGHT
The foundations of our Republic rest firmly upon the knowledge
and intelligence of Americans of past, present and future generations
and upon the sound education of our young men and women depends
the security and destiny of our beloved country.
Our public schools today offer broad opportunities for the youth of
America to gain appreciation for the manifold blessings of our institutions. A vigorous school system is an effective economical weapon for
the defense of the nation against all its enemies, foreign and domestic.
Our national independence and personal Jioberties could not long flourish
if the education of our rising generations were to 'be neglected.
With our growing population and constant ly expanding economy,
we in California have a responsibility to maintain the highest posstble
standard s of education in our schools. The necessary expansion of
school facilities must be matched with vigorous efforts to attract greater
numbers of able, well trained and loyal men and women to accept the
profession of teaching, .a s lifetime careers.
Recognizing the importance of citizen cooperation in the development
of better public schools, I, Goodwin J. Knight, Governor of California,
proclaim April 25-30, 1955, as PUBLIC SCHOO LS WEEK througho ut
our State. I urge my fellow Californians to avail themselves of the opportunities offered to become better informed on the problems, accomplishments and aims of those who serve our public schools as teachers, administrators and trustees.
Proclam ation of

THE GOVER NOR OF HAW All
HoN. SAMUEL WILDER KING
WHEREAS, Public Schools Week was first inaugura ted to bring to
the attention of the adult population the important needs of their taxsupported public schools: and
WHEREAS, to achieve this goal the Public Schools Week Committee.
a committee of public spirited citizens, was appointed for the purpose
of preserving and perfecting one of the true fundamentals of democracy,
the ·public school: and
WHEREAS, to the end that our community should constantly be made
aware of the importance of our public schools, the committee has re-

185

quested our Governor to set aside a certain week so that special effort
by our rpublic schools can 1be made to exhibit their work and accomplishments to the public and at the same time call to our .:attention the
existing needs of our public schools:
Now, therefore, I. Samuel Wilder King, Governo r of the Territor y
of Hawaii, do hereby proclaim the week of April 25th to April 30th,
1955, as PUBLIC SCHOO LS WEEK and urge all the people of this
Territor y to acquaint themselves with the needs of the tax-supp orted
pu~lic schools and to keep themselves informed, through the newspap ers,
radio and other media of information, of the various activities and forms
which may affect their public schools.
Done at Iolani Palace, Honolulu,
Territor y of Hawaii.
Proclam ation of

YORK RITE BODIES
EDWIN J. GRIBBLE, Grand High Priest
FRANK MARPLE, Grand Master, Grand Council
MILFORD B. BATES, Grand Commander
Once more it is our privilege to call attention to Public Schools
Week which this year celebrates its 36th annual observance April 25-30.
1~~

Sponsored 'by Masonry since its inception in 1920, Public Schools
Week has proved a major factor in keeping the people informed and
interested in the welfare of our schools.
James Madi~on long ago fittingly summed up the importance of edu~ation in a democracy when he said: "Knowle dge will forever govern
ignorance: and a people who mean to be their own governors must arm
themselves with the power which knowledge gives."
Prophetic words, for today the battlegro und of freedom is in the
minds of men and the citadel is the Public SC'hool. Just as armies go on
maneuvers just so is it important to mobilize the people behind our
schools.
Public Schools Week annually offers this opportunity for inspection,
and an understanding of the problems of education today.
. The York Rite Bodies ·have always cooperated with the Grand Lodge
Priests the
in the matter of Public Schools Week and we ask the High
~ies
ordinate
b
su·
the
Illustrious Masters, and the Commanders of
Public
the
with
conflict
that
25-30
not to hold meetings during April
furtherin
way
possible
every
in
assist
to
and
Schools Week program
ing the success of this event.
In doing so we pay honor to the Public School, the cornerstone of
our great democracy.

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Proclamation of
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER OF SCIOTS
CARL 0. JoHNSON, Pharaoh

sphere of law, and that the liberty o( men is to be found in greater
measure within law-albiding citizens.
A keen sense of appreciation for our PUblic Schools should be felt
by every American.

Pharaoh's Edict
WHEREAS, the week commencing Monday, April 25th, 1955, ending
April 30, 1955, being the week set aside by the Grand Lodge, F. &
A. M., of California, and designated as thirty-sixth annual observance
of Public Schools Week;
THEREFORE, by virtue of the power vested in me as Pharaoh of the
Supreme Pyramid, Ancient Egyptian Order of Sciots, I do hereby
decree that there lbe no meetings, ceremonials, entertainments or functions of any nature held under the auspices of any Pyramid during the
week commencing April 25th, 1955, to April 30, 1955, and that every
Sciot co-operate with his Masonic Lodge by personal attendance at
any meeting arranged lby the Committee on Public Schools Week. This
is in a<:<:ordance with the principles, aims, and objects of the Ancient
Egyptian Order of Sciots, to further the interests of every child, to
assure them of a sane, sound education, fitting the individual for a life
of self respecting, self supporting, law abiding citizenship. Officers
elective and appointive are asked to carry out the provisions of the
above edict and co-operate with their local Masonic Public School Committee, or, if none exists in their community, arrange for proper observance of Public Schools Week •by their Pyramid. It is further requested
that the albove edict 'be read at every meeting of your Pyramid held
prior to April 24th, 1955, and during the interim, posted in your Pyramid
meeting place.
Statement of
ORDER OF THE EASTERN STAR
THELMA R. WARNER, Worthy Grand Matron
The thirty-sixth annual observance of Public Schools Week will
begin on Monday, April 25th, 1955.
It is our earnest desire that all Chapters cooperate with the Masonic
Lodge in this very important activity and that all officers and members
of the Order plan to attend at least one Public School affair during the
week.
Please arrange a program of an educational nature for one of your
meetings during the month of April.
The American Public School is the most important institution for
the ·preservation and progress of liberty.
Every true American knows that real Ji.berty is found within the

CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE PASSES RESOLUTIONS
The California Legislature continued its ·practice of recognizing
Public Schools Week by adopting two resolutions, one sponsored
in ·the Assembly by four members, and another resolution was sponsored
by seventy-five mem'bers lby the same 'body, which is practically the entire
Assembly.
March 24, 1955

Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. /'4
Introduced by Mr. Ernest R. Geddes, Miss Donahoe, Messrs. Samuel
R. Geddes, and Bee.
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 74-Relative to the observance
of Public Schools Week.
WHEREAS, There has been a rapid growth in the population of California in recent years, and especially in the number of children of school
age: and
WHEREAS, This has resulted in a critical situation in our .Public
Schools System that demands the fullest understanding of the problems
involved: and
WHEREAS, It is customary each year to observe Public Schools Week
to bring all citizens and our future citizens into closer contact with the
public schools of California; and
WHEREAS, 'rhe sole purpose of Public Schools Week is to afford
this opportunity for the people to see education in action, meet both students and teachers and get acquainted with the needs of our school system and to know at first hand the work ·being done to prepare our boys
and girls for citizenship duties: now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Senate
thereof concurring, That the Legislature does hertby endorse the purposes of Public Schools Week, and urges our citizens to visit one or
more schools during the period of the thirty-sixth annual Pulblic Schools
Week, April 25-30, that there may be a wider and better understanding
April 5, 1955
of our schools and their work.

Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 86
Introduced by Messrs. Chapel, Grant, Mrs. Davis,.Messrs. Levering,
Allen, Backstrand, Beaver, Bee, Belotti, Bonelli, Bradley, Brown, Burke,
Caldecott, Casey, Clarke, Collier, Conrad, Coolidge, Dahl, Dickey,
Dills, Dolwig, Miss Donahoe, Messrs. Donald D. Doyle, Thomas J.
Doyle, Elliott, Erwin, Fleury, Gaffney, Ernest R. Geddes, Samuel R.
Geddes, Hansen, Hawkins, Hegland, Henderson, Holmes, Johnson,

188

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Kelly, Kilpatrick, Klocksiem, Lanterman, Lincoln, Lindsay, Lowrey,
Luckel, Lyon, Maloney, Marsh, Masterson, McCollister, McFall,
McGee, McMillan, Meyers, Miller, Morris, Munnell, Nisbet, O'Connell, Pattee, Porter, Rees, Rumford, Mrs. Sankary, Messrs Schrade,
Shell, Smith, Stanley, Stewart, Thomas, Unru'h, Weinberger, and
Wilson.

Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 86--Commending the Grand
Lodge of the State of California. Free and Accepted Masons, for their
leadership in sponsoring the annual Public Schools Week.
WHEREAS, The Thirty-sixth Annual Public Schools Week will be
observed in the pulblic schools of California during the week of April
25th to April 30th: and
WHEREAS, In its inception Public Schools Week was a Masonic
undertaking, having first been observed during the week of September
27, 1920, pursuant to a proclamation issued to the Masonic Lodges by
the Honorable Charles Albert Adams, past Grand Master of Masons
in California, calling attention to the crisis then confronting the public
schools of this State: and
WHEREAS, With the passing of the then existing crisis it was recognized that such annual gatherings in observation of Public Schools Week
were of momentous value in keeping public education in the minds of
the people: thus, the annual observance became a community affair
rather than a Masonic event, with such organizations as the American
Legion, Parent-Teachers Association, Ministerial Association, various
service clubs in the community, and other fraternal and civic organizations participating in the activities: and
WHEREAS, throughout the years of the annual observance of Public
Schools Week the Masonic order has sougb,t no gain for Masonry or
credit for any service rendered the pulblic schools, but has 'been motivated
purely lby a desire to render a public service, to the end that each year
there will 'be afforded to the champions of free, public education an
opportunity to join in bringing about that close contact 'between the
people and their public schools which is so essential to a continuance
of the friendship, faith, and confidence upon which they necessarily
depend: now, therefore, be it
Resolved. by the Assembly of the State of California. the Senate
thereof concurring. That the Grand Lodge of the State of California,
Free and Accepted Masons, are hereby commended for initiating and
sponsoring Pu'blic Schools Week in the public schools of the State of
California: and be it further
Resolved. That the Ohief Clerk of the Assemhly is hereby instructed
to forward a suitably engrossed copy of this resolution to the Grand
Lodge of the State of California, Free and Accepted Masons.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

189

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Specially embossed Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag was furnished
schools to enter a creative writing competition on the Public Schools
weele.
"I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR
WHICH IT STANDS,
ONE NATION UNDER GOD, INDIVIS.
.
IBLE. WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL."
The Pledge of Allegiance was first pulblished in the Youths Companion, September 8, 1892, and first used at the National Public Schools
conference October 21, 1892. Author Frances Bellamy.
ORIGINAL VERSION-"! pledge allegiance to my flag and to
the Republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with Uberty
and Justice for all."
This was modified June 14, 1923, from my flag to flag of the United
States: again modified in 1924 to include after words United States the
words "of America." Changed again by an act of Congre.SS, June 14,
1954, as Public Law No. 396, •to its present form.
Presented by
HENRY c. CLAUSEN
Grand Master of Masons in California
At 4:15 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 A.M. Tuesday.

190

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IN GRAND LODGE

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1955
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M., the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of
the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, October 2ith, were
read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
The Grand Treasurer's report was referred to this Committee. We
have reviewed it and it •has our entire approval.
The report of the Investment Committee was referred to this Committee and we not only approve the report, but extend our commendation to the members of the Investment Committee for the excellent results which the report shows are being accomplished.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT
There was referred to your Committee that portion of the report of
the Grand Secretary in which he requested that lodges under dispensation be not required to ipay the per capita tax. We have considered this
request and it has the approval of the Committee.
SALE OP STOCK IN MASONIC TEMPLE AssocIATION, SAN FRANCISCO
At the annual Communication of 195i the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommended "that in pursuance of the plan for
building, maintenance and operating of a Memorial Temple, that the
Grand Lodge by and through the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary, subject to the prior approval of the Grand Master, the Deputy
Grand Master, the Grand Treasurer and the Ohairman of the Committee
on Finance, may sell at the best price obtainable, when in their judgment the time is opportune, the stock which the Grand Lodge owns in
the Corporation holding title to the Grand Lodge's present location at
25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California."
This recommendation was adopted by Grand Lodge.
Accordingly, the sale of this stock has been effected with the approval of the designated parties and the proceeds ·paid into the general
funds of Grand Lodge. A careful check was made of the income and
capital accounts of the Temple Association, as well as the current and
prospective condition of the physical assets. In the light of the facts
obtained the price which Grand Lodge received was deemed to be entirely satisfactory, and the Finance Committee concurs in the sale.
There has been referred to this Committee the resolution introduced
by members of the Memorial Temple Committee under which the proceeds of $25i,877.50 from the sale of the stock owned by Grand Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

191

in the Temple Association will be transferred from the General Funds
of Grand Lodge to the Building Fund of the California Masonic Memorial Temple. It is clear from the words previously quoted from the
adopted recommendation of the Policy and General Purposes Committee that it was intended that the proceeds from the sale of this stock
be used for the Memorial Temple. We, therefore, approve and recommend the adoption of the resolution.
EXPENDITURE IN EXCESS OP THE BUDGET
The audit of Grand Lodge accounts shows that certain expenditure s
we~e made in excess of the budget, and in each case were not paid
until approved by the Grand Master. We bring this to your attention
in order that, with the adoption of this report in its entirety, you will
approve this action of the Grand Master. These additional expenditure s
will be found itemized in the proceedings of Grand Lodge.
It is the recommendation of this committee that hereafter the Grand
Master, in his Message, report any such additional authorizations for
Grand Lodge approval.
AUDIT OP ACCOUNTS

.Jn accordance with the provision of Ordinances, an audit of accounts

of Grand Lodge for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1955 has been made
by the firm of Skinner and Hammond, Certified Public Accountant s of
which firm Brother James E. Hammond is a senior member. Each m~m­
ber ~f your Finance Committee has received and carefully examined the
audit report, and we have discussed it with Brother Hammond. It is
our opinion that the report presents the true condititon of the finances
of the Grand oLpge. We commend Brother Hammond for the excellent
manner in whicli the report is prepared.
MASONIC HOMES
Your Committee has reviewed the report of the audit of the accounts
of the Masonic Homes of California as well as the report of the Trustees
and after consultation on the amount ()f funds needed to support their
operations for the next fiscal year we find that a renewal of the per
capita tax of 50c will be sufficient. We, therefore, offer the following
resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVE D: That the sum of 50c per capita be levied for the
fiscal year ending July 31, 1956, the proceeds to be paid to the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes.
PREPARATION OP BUDGET
Your Committee continued the procedure begun last year of meeting well in advance of the Communication with the Grand Treasurer,
Grand Secretary, and the Chairmen of the various Boards and Committees for a review of proposed budgets and proposed administrative
and general expense. This has made it possible to give more time and
objective planning to the budget which we submit for your approval.

192

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

We have endeavored to be realistic in setting up the appropriations,
thereby presenting as far as possible a true picture of anticipated income and expense.
A few comments on certain items in the budget seem to be appropriate. A material reduction has been made in the appropriation for the
Memorial Temple Committee. After discussion with the Chairman it
is felt that regardless of the nature of the future program under which
additional funds may be realized, the expenses in raising such funds
will be much less than in the past.
SALARIES

Your Committee has discussed with the Grand Secretary the salary
needs for the coming year. We are including in this item his estimate
of the increases which will be needed for the office staff. In addition
we are recommending increases for the Grand Secreta ry and the Assistant Grand Secreta ry of $1,800 and $1,000 per year, respectively.
The scope of the work and responsibility of the Grand Secreta ry
and his Assistant has greatly increased in the last decade and a half.
The efficiency with which the administrative affairs are discharged in
California is, in our opinion, not second to that of any jurisdiction in
this country.
A larger increase than we are recommending would be justified, but
we 'hope that our finances will permit a further adjustment in the future.
GRAND LoDGE LITIGATION

At the annual Communication of 1954 Grand Lodge unanimously
adopted the recommendatiton of the Publications Committee that the
Grand Master be authorized to institute action in the courts of this
state on behalf of our Grand Lodge, to establish that our name and
certain Masonic words and phrases shall not be used for fraudulent
purposes nor for private gain or profit; that all costs and expenses
thereof shall be a proper charge against the general funds of this Grand
Lodge.
So far no expense in this matter has been reported to your Committee, but we are informed that suits have been instituted and that
there may be costs in the coming year in the estimated amount of $5,000.
Therefo re, we have included this amount in the budget.
RETIREM ENT PLAN

The Proceedings of Grand Lodge, 1947, show that the Trustee s of
the Homes Board were directed to set up and adopt a retirement plan
for the employees of the Homes, and it was recommended that the plan
be so arrange d that. if in the future it was considered desirable that
employees of Grand Lodge be brough t under the Homes plan, this would
be possible.
We have been advised by the Trustee s that ·such a plan was adopted
and became effective January 1, 1955.

193

Your Committee has given serious consideration to the matter of
now placing Grand Lodge office employees under this plan and it is our
conclusion that this should be done and we so recommend, to be eft'ective January 1, 1956.
Based upon the figures arrived at by our actuarial advisors, we estimate that for the seven months of the current fiscal year remaining after
January 1 the net cost of this plan to Grand Lodge will be approximately
$4,000, which amount we 'have included in the proposed budget.
Your Committee is aware of the fact that there are employees of
Grand Lodge other than those in the office, such as Masonic Clubhouses, Boards of Relief. Employment Bureaus, etc. However, we do
not have the necessary data on all these employees to make it possible
for us to estimate the cost of including them under this plan at this
time. A study will be made and we will attempt to bring to you at the
next annual Communication a recommendation on the employees falling into these categories.
T'he proposed budget follows:
BUDGET
ADMINIS TRATIVE & OFFICE

Salaries ..............................................................................._~....$ 43, 780.00
7, 750.00
Rent ·····················································-······························-·····
2,500.00
Audit ..........................................................................................
550.00
Grand Treasu rer ·························································-······-·····
0
2,500.0
_._
........
............
.............
.............
.............
Express
and
Postage
1,800.00
Telepho ne and' Telegra ph. .......................................·-··-····· ·-··
0
1,250.0
~....
........•...
Social Securit y and Unemployment Taxes.............
500.00
Investment Counsel ..................................................................
4,000.00
Retirement Plan-G rand Lodge Employees............................
TOTAL

···········--···············-··························-···-····~~--·.$ 64,630.00

GENERA L EXPENS E

Annual Communication ....................................- .........___, 16,000.00
Conferences ························ ··········· ··········· ··········· ··-··-·-·· ·-··· 4,500.000
7,500.0
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense....................................
650.00
.
.............
.............
Grand Organi st and Grand Tiler.................
Grand Master' s Travel, Secretarial
and Miscellaneous Expense.. ................................................ 10,000.00
4,000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges................................................
.
....
.............
Lodges
8,500.00
for
ce
Insuran
sation
Workm en's Compen
.
..........
.............
1,850.00
.............
Portrait of Grand Master ( 2) .............

194

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Representatives' Mileage ......................................................... .
Printing ·········-···········································································
Fidelity Bond, Grand Lodge and Lodges ( 3 year 'Premium)
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer •...................................................................
Inspectors' Ap~ons and Stationery................................... .
Ritual Committee and Inspectors' Conference
and Travel Bxpenae...............................:..................... .
Relief Fund, Grand Masw~ .....................................................
Retirement Pay •.........................................................................
Veteran Buttons ........................................................................
Supplies and Misc:ellaneoua......................................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
30,000.00
20,000.00
3,000.00
600.00
1,500.00

195

RBCAPITULATION
Administrative and OfBce..........................................................$ 64,630.00
General Expense ........................................................................ 127,950.00
Appropriations .......................................................................... 109,700.00
GRAND TOTAL ·····················································-······-·······•302.. 2SO.OO
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
Dues from Lodges.................................................................... ,.$3~.~~.00
Income from Investments, et cetera...........................~............ 31,500.00

11.500.00
750.00
900.00
3,000.00
3,700.00

$335,306.00
Appropriations and Budgeted ltem.s........................................ $302,280.00

TOTAL ······································· ···············--·········-········.....$127,950.00

ESTIMATED SURPLUS ............~............&..-...· - · - · · · - - - - · - - ' 33,026.00

APPROPRIATIONS
Activities ·Committee ·················~~.......••...................•............... $ 4,500.00
Board of Control.........................................................................
1,250.00
Charters Committee ................................................................. .
1,000.00
Columbia Temple ..................................................................... .
2,500.00
Constitution Month ................................................................. .
750.00
Correspondence Committee ..................................................... .
6,000.00
De Molay Committee. .•••- •......•..............................................•..
500.00
Employment Bureaus ................................................................ 15,450.00
Endowment Board ································································-·· 10,000.00
History Committee ....................................................................
250.00
Committee on Research....................................••........................
1,000.00
Lodge Financing Committee..................................................... .
1,800.00
Memorial T em.pie .._................................................................. . 15,000.00
Committee on Public Schools....................................................
4.000.00
Board of Relief Reimbursement Sojourners............................
500.00
Committee on Commercialism....... _...........................................
2,500.00
Sojourners Committee ..............................................................
100.00
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley ................................................................................ 18,000.00
U.C.L.A ............................................................................... 18,000.00
Committee on Revision of Ross Digest. .............__ ,. .. ,.........•....
600.00
·Grand ·Lodge Lftigation..••.... _.•. --.. ~................................. ,........
5,000.00
Investment Committee ...................•........................•.................
1,000.00

It i·s pleasi~g to note the estimated surplus of $33,026. Barring
unforseen costs and emergency needs which might arise during the
year, we believe it to be an accurate estimate. It is the opinion of your
Finance Committee that an effort should be made to realize a reasonable
surplus each year, thereby gradually building up the reserves of Grand
Lodge against a rainy day. By exercising care, we should be able to
achieve this goal. For the ftscal year under consideration your Committee is pleased to report that no increase in the per capita will be
required. We, therefore, propose the following resolution and move
its adoption:
.
RESOLVED. That for the purpose of paying the expens.es of
Grand Lodge a per capita tax aggregating $2.75 be levied for
the ensuing year in the following amounts:
Constitution per capita for California
Masonic Memorial Temple....................................$1.00
Masonic Homes ............................................................ .50
Constitution per capita for Grand Lodge........ ~··········· .50
Additional per capita for Grand Lodge........................ .75

ToTAL ---·-··-········-···············--··-··.................:.•...~ •......$! 09.700.00

$2.75
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
F. WESLEY DAVIES
PHIL N. MYERS
BEN c. CORLETT
PAUL F. BALCK
JOSEPH M. PABIS
MELVIN H. GoTT
Adopted.

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
.
In accordance with the direction of Grand Lodge, your Committee
was appointed by the Grand Master to keep in touch with developments
relating to the building located at 416 North Main Street in .Los Angeles, the first Masonic Hall in that city and the second meeting place
of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.
.
.
You will recall from a previous report that this property is no;'
owned by the City of Los Angeles and is in such a bad state of repa~r
that it has faced demolition. However, because of the prospect that 1t
may be included in the Pueblo de Los Angeles State ~istori~al Monument we have assurances from city officials that demolition will not take
plac~, if at all, until the complete area of the Monument is det~~ined.
By action of the state legislature there h~.s be~n c~eated the Pu.eblo
de Los Angeles State Historical Monument which 1s under the direction and supervision of the Division of Beaches and Parks, State Dept.
of Natural ·Resources. This Monument, to be owned by the State,
contemplates the inclusion of the old Plaza and old historical buildings
and sites surrounding it. The complete extent of the area of the Monument is now being determined. If this old Masonic Hall is to be included
it will be by purchase by the State or some satisfactory permanent arrangement with the City.
.
.
your Committee has in its files correspondence with State officials
who state that they recognize the importance of preserving this structure as an important unit of the Monument; that being the first Masonic
Hall in Los Angeles, it would add materially to the interpretation of
the area; and that it is hoped that it can be included either through
agreement with the City or direct acquisitio:11 by. the State. .
In our discussions with the State official directly working on the
Monument. 'he has expressed the hope that, if and when the .build~n~ is
definitely a part of the Monument, it can be restored to its original
condition as the first Masonic Hall in Los Angeles.
It is too early to speculate on the manner and means of its restoration. Assuming, however, that this is eventually accomplished, the
State officials have assured us of their entire cooperation in the preservation of the Hall as a Masonic memorial.
No expense has been incurred by the Committee and we do .not
anticipate any for the immediate future. W,e recom?1end the continuation of a special committee and the authority, previously granted, for
the Grand Master to make nominal expenditures, if necessary.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
EDGAR
STEWART, JR.
LEO E. ANDERSON
MATIHEW M. CODON

v.

197

REPORT· OF THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the annual communication in 1954, the representatives of this
Grand Lodge struck from the second paragraph of Section 127 the
words "without sanction of Grand Lodge." This deletion had the immediate effect of prohibiting advertising in any publication purporting
to be Masonic in name or character or operated by or for any body or
organization which required Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership.

In that session your representatives authorized the incoming Grand
Master to institute suits to enjoin any publication or periodical from
using our name or symbols in the pursuit of advertising revenues.
The Grand Master continued the Publications Committee to assist
him in dealing with the problems arising out of these two actions. He,
in addition, has referred to this Committee a large number of cases
involving the use of the good name of our fraternity in commercial
enterprises carried on by prerequisite organizations but which commercial enterprises are not directly connected with the advertising evil.
Our report will, therefore, be made in three parts:
( 1 ) The enforcement of Section 127;
( 2) The facts concerning publications put out by non-Masons who
are using the name of Masonry to solicit advertising; and
( 3) The investigation of and recommendations for dealing with the
growing problem of the use of the good name and reputation of Masonry in commercial promotions by so-called prerequisite bodies masking
as charity but, in many instances. bordering on fraud.
We can report that the individual Lodges of the jurisdiction, without
known exception, have willingly obeyed our Masonic law and produced
Trestle Boards and bulletins free from advertising. The joint Trestle
Board issued by the Lodges of Kern and Santa Barbara Counties have
replaced the commercial magazines to whom they previously paid tribute, and every member of these Lodges is now receiving his own Lodge
bulletin, as well as those of neighboring Lodges, as a part of his dues.
It is to be hoped that other areas will, within their own borders, join
in such mutual endeavors. The Masters of our Lodges are to be congratulated on their devotion to the fundamental concept that Masonry
is for the enrichment of men's minds and spirits, and not the lining of
their pockets.
We cannot, in good conscience, say the same of many of those organizations which make membership in a Masonic Lodge a prerequisite
to mem'bership in their own 'body. It appears that a long period of education will be necessary before these prerequisite bodies learn that we
must be Masons, not only first, but also, always.

199

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

As an aftermath of the 1954 change in Section 127, the heads of
these prerequisite organizations were notified o_f the nec.essity of ceasing
any advertising previously sanctioned. In spite of this. numerous requests have come in to permit advertisers' or. sponsors' ~~mes. to a~pear
in programs and bulletins and in other ~edia. In addi~ion. i~ spite of
this knowledge. certain groups have persisted to the :point of insolence,
claiming that they were responsi·hle not to the Grand Master of Masons
in California but to the head of their own organization.
For an example of this prdblem, consider the case of Southern California Shriner, a magazine published in the Los Angeles area and devoted to the publicizing of some twenty-odd Shrine Clubs. This ~as a
periodical containing advertising which, prior to 1954, had ~~nction ~o
solicit and in which Masons had sanction to place advertising· This
sanction having been revoked by the 1954 legislation, ~~e publ~s~er. a
Mason, had a clear-cut decision to either cease advertising activity or
to cease to act as a center of Shrine Club news.
Instead of complying with the will of Grand Lodge. he continued_ to
solicit advertising and, by carrying the sam~ regular ~olumns of ?h~ine
Club news, pictures and lists of officers, retained identity as a periodical
published for the benefit of those Shrine Clubs.
The Committee reported this matter in full to the Grand Master.
His action in the matter has resulted in the trial of this Master Mason.
Distressing, however. was the attitude of many of the heads of the
Shrine Clubs involved as they continued to ignore good counsel to cease
furnishing news items and pictures to this magazine.
A second area of violation remains in the bulletins of these and other
Shrine luncheon clubs. Some of the clubs have carried business cards in
their rosters. Others have advertised a so-called "sponsor" at their
luncheons, dinners or other programmed events, spreading the name of
the "sponsor" and. in many cases, pictures of his establishment over the
entire mailing list of the club.
Lest it be inferred that this practice is limited to the Los Angeles
area, a large and prominent Shrine luncheon clUJb in the Sa~ Francisco
area included. in addition to the sponsor on the front of their program,
a box devoted to those charitable brothers who were donating the door
•prizes of the day, including liquor stores as well as other do~ors .. We
are told that the address slip of the program becomes the drawing ticket
for the ensuing raffie.
The carrying of advertising in such rosters, bulletins and programs
has, of course, been prohibited since 1951, as no sanction was t_h~n
granted for a Mason to advertise his wares in a Lodge or prerequisite
body's bulletin or programs or in other media.
We cannot but believe that this is but a phase or part of the continual struggle to use Masonry for personal gain and profit. Since it is
difficult to capitalize on symbolic Masonry. the more loosely governed

prerequisite organizations 'become the focal point for the individual who
therein seeks to spread his name and his business before his fellows.
Lest we be misunderstood. we repeat that advertising. in its proper
place, is a force for great good in this free enterprise land of ours. We
do also repeat, however. that each one of us. including the members of
prerequisite organizations, came into this great fraternity, like our fathers before us, "uninfluenced by mercenary motives." But, When this
Grand Lodge is accused of being a "1bunch of bigotted blue-nosed bums"
and this Committee of being "the ringleaders." you will understand. with
us, that "time. patience and perseverance" will be required to educate
our less informed brethren.
We recommend eternal vigilance on the part of the Inspectors of
the several districts and the Masters of the various Lodges.
What to do about those publications. put out by non-Masons. which
are using the name and symbols of Masonry to practice fraud upon the
public in the solicitation of advertising?
Several of these publishers had been members of the fraternity. They
were tried and expelled. They continued to sell advertising in magazines
with non-existent circulation.
We recommend court action and your present Grand Master was
specifically authorized to institute such actions as he might deem advis·
able.
To assist in this direction and to give protection, not only to Masonry, but to other similarly situated organizations, Assembly Bills Nos.
2797 and 2798 were introduced in the 1955 session of the California
State Legislature by Assemblyman Joe Shell of Los Angeles. These
Bills were dra'Wn by Brother Clay Robbins, a member of Garfield Lodge
No. 566. They were passed by both houses of the Legislature. signed
by the Governor, and became Article 5, Division 6. Chapter 3 of the
Business and Professions Code and Sections 21308. 21309 and 21310
of the Corporations Code. The primary purpose of this legislation is to
prevent the "use of the name of any association (such as ours) in a
commercial venture, trade or business or in the solicitation of subscriptions for advertising in any newspaper or other publication, or in the
solicitation of donations by any person representing directly or indirectly that such commercial venture, trade or business, newspaper or
other publication or donation or solicitation for donation. is sponsored,
endorsed or being offered by any association. unless the person so using
the name is entitled to the name under the constitution. by-laws, or
rules of the association or by the written consent of such association to
such use."
The legislation then provides that. where violation occurs, injunctive
relief may be granted without allegation or proof of actual damages.
As required by Section 14492.5 of the Business and Professions
Code the names and symbols used by this Grand Lodge and its con-

198

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

200

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

stituent ·Lodges have been flied by our Grand Secretary with the Secretary of State.
The effectiveness of this legislation will, we believe, soon make itself
felt. Your Committee has already received information that one so-called
Masonic publication has ceased business. Further, our Grand Master
has instituted suits against "The Masonic World," "The Masonic Star,"
"The Masonic Trestle Board" and "The Masonic Independent Monthly," using the above referred to legislation as the basis of one cause of
action.
When it was found that Howard M. Elliott. a member of Bell Lodge
No. 483, had continued his activity in soliciting advertising for the Masonic Independent Monthly. a report of the matter was made to the
Grand Master, and by his order and direction Masonic charges were
preferred against him.
During the year the Grand Master assigned to this Committee the
additional duty and responsibility to investigate many complaints against
Masons doing, as members of prerequisite organizations, that which by
our Masonic law they are prohibited from doing.
Whether we like it or not Masonry in the public mind is confused
not only with the seemingly endless array of fezzed "fun groups" which
require Masonic affiliation, ·b ut with the clubs within them, the ladies'
counterparts of them and the mixed groups as well. There is good reason for this confusion because these various groups have, by their actions and activities, led the public to believe that they are in truth and
in fact, Masonic.
In their actions and activities the . good name and reputation of
Masonry is placed 1before the public and too often abused. So-called
Masonic charity is too often hitched to a show, a circus, or almost every
form of entertainment promotion conducted •by a promoter on a percentage basis of the "take" and which promoter demands and receives the
use of name and good will of these prerequisite organizations. The sale
of tickets, which may never be used, nets the promoter the lion's share
of the proceeds. the organization "sponsoring" the promotion the rest
and the charity. in the name of which the funds were solicited, little or
nothing.
It was such an affair which Long Beach Pyramid No. 43 of the
Sciots engaged in with Lee Soble, a member of Mt. Olive Lodge No.
506, as the promoter. A contract was signed for the promotion of a
show in the Long Beach Municipal Auditorium, entitled "Hollywood
Pops Symphony."
This ad then appeared in the Los Angeles Times:
"Adv. phone salesman. Expr. only. Hollywood Pops Symphony. Repeat for Masonic sponsor. Plenty taps. Apply 1005
E. 6th Street, Long Beach."

T·h e address 1005 E. 6th Street, Long Beach, is the headquarters of
Long Beach Pyramid No. 43.
"Plenty taps" means in the vernacular of the street, "plenty suckers."
A battery of ~ight to ten phones was then installed and the pitch
men le~ prospective purchasers of tickets to believe that this was a
Masonic show, sponsored by Masonry and a Masonic organization for
c~aritable purposes. 1\ctually, and as the Toparch of the Pyramid adm1t~ed, ~h~ money denved by the Pyramid was for the maintenance of
their bu1ldmg and the building fund.
.1:1nder the terms of the contract Soble was to have charge of the
sohc1tation and sale of tickets. He received the first 40% of all monies
collected, an additional $2900.00 for the show, and the balance, after
other expe_nses were. ·paid, was to :b e split 50% to Soble and 50% to
the Pyramid. From its share the Pyramid was required to pay $300.00
as rental for the Municipal Auditorium.
. . A financial ~eport re~dered to the Sciots Pyramid, a copy of which
1s m the possession of this Committee, shows that the "total promotional
revenue grosse? by telephone sales" was $8568.24. The net amount payable to the Sc1ots was $903.02. Simple arithmetic proves that of the
gr~ss amo~nt collecte? from the citizens of the Long Beach area the
~iots received approximately 10.05%. A high price to pay, even assum1~g that the ~roceeds went to charity. However, this is not the darkest
side of the picture. Your chairman has had several talks with the Inspector o~ the ·~unko Squad of. the Long Beach Police Department, who
was and 1s quite concerned with promotional rackets of this kind and
was informed !hat in most instances several thousands of dollars d~ not
find. their way into the hands of the sponsoring group. The Inspector of
Pohc~ of. whom I speak is a Mason. He asked why promotional deals
of. this kind, and sponsored by so-called prerequisite bodies, are permitted by Grand Lodge. To this question your chairman had no answer.
A report was made to the Grand Master and by his order Masonic
char~es were pr~ferred against the promoter. In addition words of
w~rnmg were ~hispered.in ~he ear of the Toparch of Long Beach Pyramid and ?thers m authority m the Sciots organization. Notwithstanding
such wh1spe.red counsel, and while the trial of the promoter was in
progre~s, this same organization started another telephone ticket sale
promotion !'mong the ge~eral public, again using the "Hollywood Pops
Symp~ony as the drawing attraction. With the help of the Inspector
?f ~ohce to ~hom ~e have previously referred, and one high in author·
1t)'.' m the Sc1ots, this promotion was killed.
Khiva Grotto in· Glendale entered into a similar arrangement with
Clyde Beatty Railroad Circus. More than 60 days prior to the proposed
event, the adv~ce seat sale was under way. The contract required the
Grotto to obtam the grounds, the police permit, and furnish and office

202

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

and 6 telephones, all in their name. For this they were to receive 20%
of all advance sales, but only 10% of the circus day receipts. Here it
may be noted that the circus generously offered to pay a "Girl of Grotto
Desire" $40 per week to be in the office. Members of the Grotto had
to act as runners for the ticket sellers or lose 5 % of the take.
A similar promotion the previous year netted $900 on a 10% split.
Based upon these figures, four times as many tickets were sold as there
were seats to hold the customers.
On receiving friendly advice, the heads of this organization withdrew their sponsorship.
A similar situation involving Tadmor Grotto of Inglewood was
stopped before it started.
A telephone call was received from the late Worshiopful L. Gaylord
Quinn, Inspector of the 367 Masonic District, advising that the "Amaranth Foundation" was sponsoring a promotional campaign among the
public for the purpose of building a Boy's Home in Lake County. The
promoter of this affair was one M. A. Smithwick of San Francisco. After
"expenses" 'he received 50% of the take and the Foundation received
.the other 50%. Contributors to the alleged fund were given tickets for
admission to a "fun circus" to 1be held at one of the school playgrounds
in Hayward. This matter was brought to the attention of Brother Quinn
when he received a call from the Secretary of his Lodge stating: "It has
come to my attention that a telephone solicitor is endeavoring to employ
some person with a car or motorcycle to collect funds for a cause sponsored by a Masonic Group." Shortly thereafter, Brother Quinn was
contacted by the Hayward Police Department requesting information
as to our policy of soliciting funds for charity. After "our" position had
been made dear, and with the help of the Police Department, an individual with a motorcycle was sent to a:pply for the job. He went to
the hotel room of the solicitor for the campaign, where two telephones
had been installed. He was informed that he could make from $25 tci
$50 a day when the campaign really got under way. When the true
facts were broug'ht to light, the license which had previously been issued
to the Amaranth Foundation for charitable purposes and without charge,
was suspended.
Subsequently, however, the solicitors obtained a license, paying
Fifty Dollars ( $50.00) therefor, and with the consent of the Amaranth
Foundation the solicitation was continued. Your Committee has in its
possession a copy of the investigation report that was made of this
affair. It is apparent from this report that the claim was made that the
Amaranth Foundation was "Masonically affiliated" and that funds were
solicited in the name of Masonry and the local Masonic Lodge.
That this representation of Masonic connection lby the Amaranth
Foundation is not a mistake or done unintentionally is further borne out
by the following facts.

In 1952 the Amaranth Foundation sent out a letter soliciting funds
in which it was stated"The Amaranth Foundation of California, Inc., is a non-profit
philanthropic corporation, created by the authority of the Order
of the Amaranth, Masonically affiliated, for the sole purpose of
aiding those less fortunate in life." ( Italics ours. )
In correspondence with Past Grand Master Arthur Warren, the
President of this Foundation stated that it was "not the intention of
the Amaranth Foundation to solicit funds for their philanthropic work
through the Masonic Order."
The President of the Foundation in 1952 is still President, and again
we ·have a solicitation for funds under the guise of Masonic charity.
In 1954 the Fresno Pyramid of the Sciots purchased the Pollack Bros.
Circus for $12,000.00. The members of the Sciots handled the promotion, advertising and sale of tickets. Two letters were sent out by the
Sciots---one to those who had contributed before, and one to new prospective ~onors. The letter to prospective donors said, in part:
"The Fresno Sciots, through the work of the Foundation Fund
for Underprivileged Children, are prepared to double their efforts. With your help, this youngster will be able to see the best
traveling Circus in the world.
"For ten dollars ( $10.00) you can make it possible for 20
unfortunate children to see the Circus. Can you think of a better
investment?
"This js the Sciots' own show. There will be no typical telephone 'Boiler Room' promotion used .to harass you. Help us help
these kids so that our charitable work on behalf of the underprivi.leged children may continue."
A financial statement in possession of your Committee discloses that
receipts of the promotion was in excess of $25,000.00 with a net to the
Sciots of approximately $2000.00. Of even more interest, however, is a
statement made by the Certified Public Accountant who audited the
promotion. He stated:
"This promotion should be run either as a business for profit
and advertise it as such or if charity is advertised, a definite contribution should be made."
These are but a few of the rash of circuses, shows and other events
which have broken out all over California.
There are two notable similarities in each of them. T·he first is that
the sponsor agrees to lend its good name to the promoter in the solicitation of funds for advance sales. The second is that in each instance the
cry is "if the Shrine can do it, why can't we?"
If a circus could stand on its own feet it would not need the Shrine

203

204

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

or the ·Grotto or the Sciots to sell its tickets for it. but we quote from
a Shrine contract with Pollack Brothers :
"1. Second Party (The Shrine) 'hereby grants and extends
to First Party (Pollack ·Brothers ) the use of its good name, good
will and cooperation in producin g a Shrine Circus."
and
"17. The Second Party shall not enter into any money raising
campaign /rom the public between the date of signing this contract and the last performa nce." (Italics ours. )
Uniform ed 1bodies whose expenses are paid by these performa nces
may profit. Masons whose pictures appear in papers riding in parades
may ·be gratified, but the good name of Masonry is being done irreparable harm by this mushrooming growth.
The case of the San Gabriel Valley Foundat ion. formerly the San
Gabriel Valley Shrine Foundati on, is another instance involving Masonic law and ethics.
Several months ago there was sent to this Committ ee, by a Brother,
a letter written on the letterhea d of the San Gabriel Valley Foundat ion.
To this letter was attached a ticket to the San Gabriel Valley Shrine
Club Barbeque. which was also a chance on a Cadillac automobile which
was to be raffled off at the Barbeque. The letter was addresse d. "Hi,
Noble." T·he letter read substant ially as follows. and now we quote:
"Your Club ( dhviously referring to the San Gabriel Valley
Shrine Club) committees are energetic ally completing plans for
a successful June 25 San Gabriel Barbeque.
"This event is the only one each year your Club (again obviously referring to the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club) asks each
member to give their full support. You get the added satisfact ion
of participation.
"We are enclosing three tickets which we know you will accept as a part of your share of effort in making your Club the
best Shrine Club in the jurisdiction of Al Malaika. (There can
be no question but that this paragrap h refers to the San Gabriel
Valley Shrine Club. )
"It takes two tickets to furnish the prizes, barbeque and show.
The third ticket, which you use for yourself, goes toward the
yearly payment s of our clubhouse. I know you can be counted on
to make this event a huge success." ( Italics ours.)
(In this last paragrap h the word "clubhou se" obviously refers to
the clubhouse of the San Gabriel Valley Foundat ion on West Hunting ton Drive in Arcadia. )
This foundation first came to the attention of a Grand Master during the term of Most Worship ful Arthur Warren, Past Grand Master.
The facts must of necessity be detailed at some length.

205

~n or about the year 1950 the members of the San Gabriel Valley

Shrine Club banded together and formed this Foundati on. Member ship
in the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club was a prerequisite to membership
in the Foundati on. In 1952 the Foundat ion purchase d a 'building at 27
West Hunting ton Drive, Arcadia. and in the same year procured an
?n-s~e liquor license and is presently so operatin g these premises. It
is claimed that the premises are operated as a private bar. It is used
by the San Gabriel Shrine Club and in addition is rented to various
clubs and organiza tions for private parties.
When this matter came to the attention of Past Grand Master Arthur Warren, he dispatch ed a letter to the then Potentat e of Al Malaika
Temple, under wh~se jurisdiction the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club
operated , stating in part, and we now quote:
"I am disturbed , however, about the condition which you
report in the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Foundati on.
"The elimination of the word Shrine from the name and bylaws does not remove it from illegal Masonic activity. It has long
been ·held that a body basing membership in Masonry as a prerequisite is suibject to our law. The extent of the chain. no matter
how long. does not heal the situation.
"Basically, the membership in the Foundati on, as you state,
is limited to membership in the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club.
"The Club requires membership in the Shrine Temple. To be
a Shriner. mem·bership is required in either rite of Freemas onry.
To receive the degrees in the Scottish or York Rite it is necessar y
to maintai!1 membership in good standing a Symbolic Lodge.
"The assumption that the Foundat ion is a private club is in
itself an evasion of Masonic propriety . The only way that the
San Gabriel Valley Shrine Foundat ion can justify its continuance is to remove from its name AND PURPO SE any reference
to the Shrine or to Masonry . Further. the requirement of membership in the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club must be eliminated
and the membership rolls of the Foundat ion must be opened to
Masons and non-Mas ons alike."
Past Grand Master Arthur Warren did not receive a reply to that
letter and he thereupo n sent another letter to the Potentat e requestin g
that he be furnished a list of the officers of the San Gabriel Valley
Shrine Club and a list of members of the Foundati on, with the Blue
Lodge affiliation of each. and their residences.
Thereaft er Past Grand Master Arthur Warren received definite
assuranc e that the Foundat ion would take immediate steps to comply
with his requirem ents governing the name, •p urpose and membership of
the Foundati on, and the word "Shrine" was deleted from the name.
Upon that assuranc e and in the hope that his Brethren would thencefo rth
1

206

207

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

conform to the principles, tenets and ideals of Masonry, and the la~ of
this Grand Lodge, Past Grand Master Arthur Warren did not request
action by Grand Lodge.
Several things seemed obvious to your Committee, among them the
following:
First: There is still a direct tie~in between the San Gabriel Valley
Foundation and the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club.
Second: That the sponsorship by the Foundation of an event for
the benefit of the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club in order that it might
be "the best Shrine Club in the jurisdiction of Al Malaika" and itself,
was a direct violation of the assurance given Past Grand Master Arthur
Warren.
/
Third: That the proceeds and profits from the activites of the Foundation were primarily being used for Shrine purposes.
A report was made to our Grand Master. At his direction this Committee caused pictures to be made of the clubhouse of the Foundation
in Arcadia. These pictures show the emblem of the "Shrine" prominently displayed on the front of the building.
In addition, the Grand Master directed this Committee to notify the
Potentate under whose Jurisdiction the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club
and the San Gabriel Valley Foundation operated, that unless the liquor
license held by the Foundation was cancelled on or before October 1,
1955, and unless the Shrine itself required and compelled obedience to
the Laws of Grand Lodge, Masonic charges would be preferred against
those involved in the violations of our law.
Pursuant to that direction a meeting was held with the Potentate
and 'he was informed of the order of the Grand Master. As a result of
that meeting the Potentate wrote a letter to the President of the San
Gabriel Valley Shrine Club, the substance of whi,ch reads as follows:
"I have -just returned from a luncheon given by three representatives of the Grand Lodge of the State of California, at
which they presented an edict from the Grand Master of Masons
of the State of California which concerns both the San Gabriel
Valley Shrine Club and the corporation which owns the real
property.
"This edict has to do with the holding of a liquor license by
the corporation and so states that if this license is not cancelled
by October first and the verification of the same in the hands of
the Grand Master, ..• preferred charges will be brought against
the officers by the Grand Lodge.
"My suggestion to you is that you obtain this cancellation
from the State Board of Equalization at your earliest convenience
and verification sent to the Grand Master, or I. as Potentate, •..
will be forced to cancel the charter of your club. This I do not

want to do if there is any possi'ble way of avoiding it, but the
order of the Grand Master is supreme and I am forced to comply
with it."
Thereafter your Committee was notified that an escrow had been
opened for the sale of said liquor license, however it appears that the
person to whom the license has been sold has become the lessee of the
property owned by the Foundation and will operate a catering service
from these premises; further, that the San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club
will continue to hold its meetings in the same premises. If this is the
case, the facts would warrant the assumption that instead of a compliance with the order of the Grand Master there has rather been an
evasion. In the words of the poet: "We shall see what we shall see."
In fairness, it should 1be reported that when the attention of the Potentate was called to the raffle of the Cadillac above referred to, the
same was stopped by his order.
Other complaints have been received by your Committee from Brethren pertaining to door prizes, raffles, and even shows of questionable
character, but time does .not permit the cataloguing of them all. Ours
is not the only jurisdiction which is plagued. Most Worshipful Whitfield W. Johnson, Grand Master of Massachusetts, had this to say at
a quarterly communication in 1954:
"The question of raffles, door prizes, lotteries, etc., seems to
arise constantly for the consideration of Grand Masters.
"Much has been written 1by Grand Masters of this and other
jurisdictions about gambling. Their disapproval. and that of the
craft, has been unanimous. There is, however, a twilight zone in
which are found many activities that fall short of gambling and "
that even partake of entertainment and voluntary charity, but
which find their final excuse for existence solely in the element of
a chance to get pecuniary value for nothing. ,
"To ask the Grand Master to be constantly acting as a censor
of these 'borderline cases is unfair to him and bad for the craft,
for every such decision prompts some criticism and misunderstanding, and comparison with other decisions: and the cumulative effect is to spread dissension and weaken the solidarity of
our Fraternity."
The activities of organizations whose prerequisite to membership is
that one be a Master Mason causes this Committee to pose this question:
May Master Masons, by the formation of, and membership
in, an organization which requires Masonic affiliation to membershi:p, but which organization is not chartered by or recognized by
Grand Lodge, exempt themselves from the principles, tenets,
ideals, rules and regulations which govern them as members of
a Symbolic Blue Lodge?

208

209

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Your Committee knows, as should all Master Masons, that the answer is a resounding NO.
Do not all Master Masons kneel at the same altar? Do not all Master Masons freely and willingly assume the same obligations? Are not
all Master Masons bound to conform to and bide by the laws, rules
and regulations of the Grand Lodge under which his Lodge is holden
and in whose jurisdiction he resides? Is there anything in our ritual,
laws, rules or regulations, which exempts a Master Mason simply because he belongs to such an organization?
·
The answers to these questions are so obvious that they need not
be here recorded. Yet, many of our Brethren who proudly boast of mem·bershiip in a Blue Lodge, cry out against the shackles of fundamental
Masonic restraint when applied to their membership in such organizations. Then this Grand ·Lodge becomes, and we repeat, "a bunch of
ibigotted !blue-nosed bums" and this Committee "the ringleaders."
We are charged that Masonry is:
" ••. an Institution having for its foundation the practice of
the social and moral virtues; and to so high an eminence has its
credit been advanced that, in every age and in every country,
men preeminent for their moral and intellectual attainments have
encouraged and prompted its interests."
Masonry holds a place of preeminence in every community in which
a Blue Lodge exists, and throughout the ages it has held and now holds
the hearts and minds of men.
Have we now reached an era in our Masonic history when adherence to the fundamental principles of Masonry is a cloak to be worn or
discarded, depending upon whether we sit in a Blue Lodge or in a prerequisite :body? Is the shadow of commercialism now to engulf our beloved Fraternity through the sponsorship of commercial enterprises and
by begging from the ipublic in the name of or under the guise of Masonry?
This Committee cannot stem the tide. No Grand Master can, in his
busy year, cope with the number of known violations of Masonic law
and ethics, if treated on an individual basis.
Here, as in the case of advertising, legislation must necessarily be
the answer. We have sought the advice and counsel of men preeminent
in Masonic law. It is with their help that the following proposed addi,tfon to our Ordinances has been hammered out and for that purpose we
offer the following resolution:

thereof shall, directly or indirectly, engage in any business, project, venture. promotion, scheme or plan which is unethical. fraudulent, misleading or illegal. Any violation of this section shall be
deemed un-Masonic conduct."
The work of this Committee has been arduous and oft times unpleasant. Each member of the Committee has borne his full share of
the 'burdens and responsibilities, and to ea~h the chairman extends his
heartfelt thanks.
Brethren, the members of your Committee ask you to join with us
in a toast to a Man and a Mason.
To Henry Christian Clausen, Grand Master of Masons in California. By his strength he has strengthened us. By his leadership he has
lead us into higher realms of Masonic understanding. By his character
and integrity he has fortified us in our knowledge that right shall triumph over wrong. By his devotion to Masonic principles and ideals
he has taught us that service to our beloved Fraternity is in itself just
compensation. To him we owe a debt that can never ·be repaid. To him
we offer our humble thanks and a friendship that shall cease only when
time shall .b e no more.
We recommend that the Committee, without reference to its present
personnel. be continued.

RESOLVED: That a new section numbered 126.1 be added to
the Ordinances of Grand Lodge and inserted in Ross Digest,
reading as follows:
"Section 126.L No Lodge, or body, or organization requiring
Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership, or memlber

Respectfully submitted.
RALPH K. PIERSON
DONALD

G. CAMPBELL

HERBERT

R. HARGRAVE

LEWIS H. JOHNSON
VINCENT P. McMuRoo

Proposed legislation referred to Committees on Policy and General
Purposes and on Jurisprudence.
Recommendations adopted.

210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AMENDME NT OF SECTION 127

How, by whom, and by what authority could determination as to
the official character or the contents of the publication be made?
If the determination is made, who and by what means is conformity to
be ascertained or enforced 1
As to the last two conditions, how, by whom and by what means
can the existence of net profits from the soliciting or sponsoring be determined: and, if such profits exist, whether they are or will be used for
charitable purposes?
How, by whom and by what means can it be determined that O.nancial
profit will or will not accrue, or has or has not accrued to, a member of
the sponsoring body?
These and other insoluble policing problems prevented the success
of attempted palliatives and were accountable for the broad prohibitions
of existing Section 127.
While, to a minor degree, honest and well-intentioned persons may
be inconvenienced, the necessity of putting a stop to fraudulent practices
indulged in the name of Masonry whereby Masons in general and
newly initiated members of the Craft in particular were being persistently
victimized, the public misled, and Masonry brought into disrepute, made
prohibitive legislation imperative.

Brother Milton E. Ballengee, Past Master of Honolulu Lodge No.
409, presents resolution proposing to amend Section 127 of our Ordinances. The above resolution was referred to this Committee. For the
following reasons we recommend that it be not adopted:
Section 127 was amended to read as it now stands in 1954 (Proc.
1954, pp. 155 & 161 ). In substance, it forbids any Lodge or member
from soliciting, sponsoring, inserting. placing or printing advertising
of any kind in or for any medium or publication which purports to be
Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership.
These broad prohibitions were the result of investigation and research, extending over several years, by Grand Masters, by the Grand
Lodge Committee on Policy, and by special committees on Publications
of the Grand Lodge, and following trial of various remedial measures.
The abuses had assumed the proportions of a constantly recurring
racket, and are extensively set forth in reports of such committees and
in messages of successive Grand Masters. (Proc. 1951, 131-138: 1952
Proc. 56-57, 75-78, 320-324: 1953 Proc. 73, 88-91, 168-176: and 1954
Proc. 71-75, 148-166B.)
Not the least of the difficulties encountered in the remedial efforts
was the impossibility of 1policing persons, publications and organizations
not accountable to this Grand Lodge.
The proposed amendment is decidedly counter to the obvious policy
of amended Section 127 and would defeat its policy and purpose. It
provides in effect that, notwithstandin g the prohibition, a Master Mason
may solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising in a publication
purporting to be Masonic in character or published by an organization
requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership,
( 1 ) if the publication is the official publication of such an organization:
( 2) if it does not indicate the name, symbol or emblem of the organization:
( 3) if it does not indicate that the publication is in fact Masonic or
of "affiliated origin":
( 4) if all net profits from "solicitation or sponsoring" are used by
the sponsoring body for charity: and
( 5) if no financial :profit therefrom is permitted r to accrue to any
member of the sponsoring body.
Obviously, in order to be effective, the first three prescribed conditions would have to be determined in advance of the sponsoring, solicitation or printing.

211

COMMITTE E ON PUBLICATIO NS
RALPH K. PIERSON
DONALD G. CAMPBELL
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE
LEWIS H. )OHNSON
VINCENT P. McMuRoo

The motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.
At 12:10 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 P.M.

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, October 25, 1955
At 1 :30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on. the Grand Master presiding.

WE ARE FREE
MILTON D. SAPIRO, Grand Orator

Most Worshipful Grand Master, and Past Grand Masters, Officers
and Brethren of the Grand Lodge of California, and Distinguished
Masonic Guests:
Once more we are privileged to assemble in our Annual Communication. We gather here from the many sections of this glorious state so
that we might continue to consult concerning the welfare of our institution, its members and our people, for surely no official gathering of
Masons can ever take place that shall not reflect a concern for the whole
of the people with whom we live.
Our Most Worthy Grand Master and Grand Secretary and others
have presented their reports on the state of the Craft and these records
will portray a healthy, sound, growing organization. They will demonstrate the strength of our body in numbers and in material worth and
we in our Communication will want to absorb those facts and analyze
and weigh them so that we may determine how to use the power that
such a force can generate in the lives of our community.
As one journeys from one end of this state to the other observing
the operations of our brethren in its variety of communities, one receives
a tremendous impression of the reserves of manpower and of the formidable volume of energy stored in its Lodges and of the flood of influence represented in our various units. At constitutions and institution of
Lodges, laying of cornerstones, dedications, receptions, and various types
of ceremonies which we have attended there has been manifested the
human strengths that make this Craft strong and that have made it live.
Here, of course, in our Annual Communication, we witness the most
expressive demonstration as to the type of men who constitute its leadership, drawn from the great mass of our membership, representative of
all fields of endeavor and endowed with what should be a thirst and
eagerness to declare their attachment for the ideals and truths that have
brought this institution down through the ages until now when it attains
the support of the greatest number ever known in the centuries of its
existence.
Never before have so many men been a part of this Ancient Order,
although you and I must well recognize that it is not by mere numbers
alone that we will measure its advance or that it will thrive and continue
to be. The quantity of members alone did not keep alive those Ancient
Charges which have been characteristic of Freemasonry. Even when
the adherents of Freemasonry were few, even when they clung together
in small groups, harassed by dictators, spiritual and temporal. Masonic

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

truths stirred them and caused them to draw other men to them and so
enabled them to pass from generation to generation those everlasting
truths. Ever has been their loyalty to God, their dedication to honorable conduct, their exemplification of moral and temperate habits. their
respect for the secrets of a brother and the constant regard for his welfare.
As we hold our Annual Communication we again remind ourselves
of the history of Masonry and think of its ancient origin and accomplishments. We remember the founding of the Grand Lodge organization as
we know it today, from its English Beginnings in 1717. We know of
the earlier ancient German stonemasons and the French guilds, which
practiced an observance of the same tenets and truths we accept today:
and we learn that even farther back in the deep past, delving into the
mysteries of ancient religions that have stirred the thinking of mankind.
there is evidence of the physical designs and the moral teachings by
which we continue to conduct our affairs. These matters can all bear
repetition for if we are to be loyal to our present day designation of
Freemasons, the truths taught in these ancient forms and that have survived must be a complete part of our makeup and they must ever be
present to guide us and those Master Masons who serve with us. They
can only be understood by a constant attention to them. In each of our
Annual Communications we must ever renew our faith in our destiny as
Freemasons, as we again dedicate ourselves to its noble purposes.
We meet here in the character of Masons, but we must always
remember that we meet not merely as Masons but as Freemasons, for
as the world has shaped its affairs in our generation that word "free"
has become our most precious symbol. If it were not for the spirit it
represents, we· would be just another fraternal organization, but with
if we establish ourselves as active faithful descendants of an ancient
and honorable family. dedicated to those tenets of brotherly love and
truth for which the term "free" itself has become the motive, and which
exist in their highest form only when men are free.
It was once believed that the term "Freemason" referred to a Mason
who worked with freestone, but that idea was soon discarded. It became
evident that the term characterized those operative Masons who comprised the guilds and companies of Masons that were bold enough to
exercise a freedom of movement, a freedom of artistic design and thought
even in the Middle and Dark Ages when such activity was vigorously
discouraged--even then there existed men who would not permit their
feet to be fettered, their souls to be made captive, their minds to be subjugated. Somehow these m~n contrived to secure unusual freedom in days
when the ability to secure an education and increase one's knowledge
was limited to a small select group: in days when independent thinking
was regarded as evil and as a crime against the ruling dominant force;
in the days when men of science were punished for searching out the
truths of our existence and were compelled under the torture of the rack

214

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

to recant what their scientific research had taught. In those days the
minds of men were subject to strictures so that their thinking as well
as their art ·had to follow narrow set-out trails, or be deemed blasphe mous; even in those days men gained courage togethe r to break away
from some of the restrictions and in their groupings were denomi nated
"free" to mark the development of their aspirati ons and the enlargin g
scope of their activities and considerations.
Then, as Freema sonry developed in the form in which we now know
it, a product of an organiz ed a:Q.d soundly constitu ted institution, the
term "free' persiste d to have meaning and give life to our order. Where
its Lodges existed and men met at its altars and under its signs, we
found inspiration for human .progress and advance. Under the quicken~
ing influence of its simple truths, men yearned for the opportu nity for
human freedom. In nations were Masonic lodges prospered, chains of
tyranny were stricken and people as such began to enjoy the great
opportunities that mark freedom. If we underta ke to study those other
countries where human beings most enjoy the advanta ges of democracy, such as Englan d, France, and the Scandin avian groups, we will
.find that those who matured at Masonic altars were in the foreground
of all those movements that advance d the course of and fixed the rights
of Freemen. Even today in many countries where a type of dictator ship
dominates the lives and seeks to control the minds of its citizens, we
will find that Masoni c institutions are still guardin g the treasure s of
freedom and prepari ng the minds and hearts of men for self-government
when they shall be free. These Lodges encoura ge their members, even
under bitterly adverse conditions, as men of courage to stand firm and
fast and prepare themselves for that day when the rights of freemen
shall obtain on the soil of their land.
This freedom for men in which we believe and which we in this
generat ion and nation take for granted , is threaten ed in all parts of our
globe. So we who proclaim ourselves free had better talk of freedom so
that we may underst and it and so that we may live it and have the
courage to preserv e it.
Let us consider our being free as we enjoy it here in these United
States, where men have attained heights of freedom which the early
great philosophers pictured only as a literary utopia and the average
man never contemplated in the history of the human race. I doubt
whethe r even the Foundi ng Fathers of this nation, except in their most
imaginative dreams, could have foreseen that such a vast nation of people would enjoy the type of indepen dence and civil liberty that we
enjoy, that has taken us out of economic slavery, has given all the
opportu nity for being freed from the depress ion of ignorance, and that
has freed us from so many of the ills and inconveniences that have
plagued mankind over the centuries. Those early Americans lived in the
days when human slavery was a part of their economic system. For so
many years and in all states, propert y and other voting qualifications

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

215

prevailed before one could vote as a citizen. Unive~sal suffrage was unknown and we. remembe~ that it is just in our present century that
woman has received the right to vote. We find conditions and restrain ts
that formerly restricte d length of life and the scope of life have been
changed and lifted as we developed and advance d our freedoms.
As one of the attribut es of being free, let us not forget that we
have been a~d. are free to venture. Even now we live in an age when
the opportu nities offered to men are still unlimited. Look at the many
~bs~ure secrets t~at have been made known to man during our own
lifetime. Today with the advanta ges for educati on that have been made
avai~able. and with the spirit of research that has taken hold of our generation, it would seem that many of the mysteries of the universe and
the un~own factors of life will become an open book for us, to be used
for man s benefit and progress.
In the Book of Proverb s, there appears this quote:
"There be three things which are too wonder ful for me ' yea '
four which I know not
The way of an eagle in the air
The way of a serpent upon a rock
The way of a ship in the midst of the sea
And the way of a man with a maid."
. ~ow would the writer of that verse express himself if he were living
through the study
ID this world of today? Certain ly he would know how,
of the laws of
dge
o~ the eagle and other birds, man has gained knowle
reach and
eagle's
the
beyond
flight so that man soars to heights even
seriously
even
we
Now
behind.
far
eagle
a~ speed~ tha~ would leave an
on the
already
are
s
satellite
space
and
travel
netary
discuss mterpla
plannin g board.
And then that writer would be surprise d · to learn of all that we
k~ow .of natural history and the ways and habits of serpent s and other
wil~ li~e, so that m~ch has come to our attentio n and knowledge as to
their living. Yet still there are so many things we do not know and
much remains for us to discover. For instance, we know not why the
birds of the air and the .fish in the sea in an unsolved phenomenon return
to breed and spawn in the same spots year after year; and many other
subjects are there for us to learn.
That writer would find that the ways of a ship at sea are somewh at
within our underst anding too and that we even stabilize some of its
a~tio~s. At the same .time he would find that nature still controls many
situations and occasionally to illustrate this goes on a rampag e and
sends forth what we describe as one of its daughte rs to play around;
and then wreaks havoc- -as to which we do not yet have the answer.
We know how puny man seems when nature starts out to shake or
ravage this earth and vents its wrath upon that which man has erected.
Yet man is ever trying to .find out how and why and underst and what

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

produces these natural disturbances; to ascertain why the earth quakes
and shakes and to learn how we may build to avoid destruction, to control Sood and in other ways to live within the exercise of nature's powers.
Man has split the atom and has seemed to reverse the processes of
nature. It was not so many centuries ago that such an accomplishm~t
would have brought about charges of witchcraft and all concerned with
such an activity would have been condemned. Today we encourage man
to acquire that knowledge, for we realize that the strength and power
possessed by natural forces should, if possible, be harnessed and made
available for the beneflcial use of mankind; and such is being done.
Lastly, that writer spoke of the way of a man with a maid as one
of the things of which he knows not. This still seems in the realm of
the <inscrutable. Yet, with the advances made in the field of psychology,
psychiatry and related sciences of human behavior•. can we hold those
matters to be entirely beyond the scope of human discovery? When we
consider how much has been developed by research and inquiry as to
the reactions which concern and affect human nature and human relationships and the better understanding of the motives and pressures that
impel human conduct and move us into action, it would seem that even
the last of the things unknown, to that Biblical author wi~l .in many
respects become available for our comprehension and better.living. This
is no simple task and there will still be many of the mystenes that surround creation and existence that will remain for us to ponder on the
way in which the Supreme Architect of the universe works his wonders
for us to behold.
The world however moves forward as we keep open the door of
opportunity for clear, untrammeled thinking, as we remove all fetters
that would bind the human mind, as we permit it to look forward and
backward without restraint and without requiring it to peep through
colored glasses and permit it with boldness to discover and dis~ern the
truth. This will produce material advances but we must be continuously
aware that these material achievements can be of real service to man
only as we recognize the spiritual values they must indicate and preserve.
The spirit of the pioneer, that spirit which caused men and women
to stride forth courageously over our Western plains, facing perils
known and unknown but with a firm determination to establish a home
for themselves and their families at whatever cost, must be permitted
to continue to pervade our lives and drive us on with like courage and
eagerness to meet the problems that this advancing age presents to us,
especially as it concerns our relations with our fellowmen.
This is the field of endeavor in which we as Freemasons are particularly designed to carry on as we are free to serve, and do for and
respect our fellow men. Never has Masonry .existed . for itself ~one,
nor has an individual Mason, true to its teachings, existed for himself
alone. This cannot be, for our strongest virtue is in our dedication to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

217

brotherhood and every move we make in our fraternal association is
intimately bound with the good it should bring about for each individual
and 'his neighbor.
Scan the history of our institution and you will find that it has oppressed no man. It has compelled no man to enter its Lodges. To it
inquisition and persecution have been abhorrent. Our concern has been
to assist and forward human welfare and build through those humanitarian efforts that give men strength, peace, ·harmony and dignity. This
we have been able to do as we served our fellowmen because we were
Freemen and Freemasons. We have accepted as the crowning glory
of God's handiwork a virtuous, law-abiding, right-thinking and acting
man.
At our altars we have welcomed men of every creed. We have respected the thinking of every man. We ask only that he believe in God,
but we do not dictate to him the road to pursue as he approaches the
worship of his God. He shares with us our philosophies, our teachings,
our fellowship and companionship, and this constitutes no interference
with the mode of worship he has chosen.
This is the tolerance of which we so proudly boast. Not tolerance
in the sense of a gracious acceptance of the other man's difference, but
tolerance in the sense of the understanding of the equal rights which
every man .possesses to follow the religious creed of his choice. This is
the kind of relationship that is clear and free from every bigotry and
prejudice and should characterize the fellowship of all men. This is the
kind of religious freedom Freemasons wrote into the Constitution of the
United States. We know that man is capable of hating and having
and maintaining prejudice and discrimination, but not so a Mason. Our
freedom to think and our association one with the other must have
taught us that we necessarily judge each man by his individual worth
and merit and weigh by exact and similar standards: and if we fail to
do so then we have missed entirely the spirit of the words we utter at
our Lodge altars and have failed entirely to absorb the lessons of our
Masonic teachings.
This is so important to remember in days like these when contact
between many peoples has become such a simple everyday fact. We
meet with persons from all over the globe. Many of them even set their
goal of life to be found in this, our own nation. Many will apply to
our Lodges for admission. Are we going to continue to judge them by
What they are or are we going to look to and check their religious background and the creed they follow to see if they conform? And are we
going to set up some other artificial test? If we do that, we make our
words as we pledge anyone to ourselves, a sham and a deceit. Hypoc- .
risy in our life we must avoid, for such false pretense has contributed
so much to the world's difficulties. So we must from time to time examine into our own souls deeply in order that we may determine and know

218

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

how Masonry has fashioned our lives. What would you have done if
a Dr. Sammy Lee, that stalwart patriotic American officer and athlete
of Korean descent, had sought to purchase a house in the tract where
you live? Would you have been true to the Masonic ideals you profess,
judging him by the standards symbolized by our Masonic tools, or
would you have permitted your judgment to be swayed by a mean, petty
bias and prejudice that characterize the narrow minded or the demagogue, who seeks to divide men so that he might dimb to power on
the hate he can engender? This problem becomes more and more real
to us as the world's distances are lessened and barriers between people
are destroyed by reason of the ease of communication and travel and
of association with each other. Will we not exercise our freedom of
being together with full appreciation of the high respect we must have
for our fellow men, whose conduct and character call for that respect:
and will we not judge them by the same standards we judge ourselves?
Doing this has made our truths living truths and has contributed to
keeping our institution alive and active throughout the ag~s. Doing.this,
we bring about in our own lives and in our Lodges a solid exemplification of the spirit of brotherhood and the foundation of our order is
strengthened for continued existence and service.
What we teach in Masonry can only be of value as we make it a
part of our personal everyday life. This has been so thoroughly emphasized in the history of this, our own nation, and is being illustrated
constantly in our daily civil existence. From the very beginning of the
national aspirations of the United States, Freemasons have played a
most important part in shaping its destiny. From the teachings in their
Lodge rooms they obtained a reverent respect for t~e rights of hu~an
beings and a yearning and regard for freedom. Fortified by that which
had been inculcated in them in Masonic meetings, they were the leaders
in the effort to advance the general welfare and lift the weight of royal
oppression from the shoulders of our people. When it became necessary
to set up a new nation to obtain and assure freedom, they had the fortitude to be the leaders in that movement. Many of the signers of the
Declaration of Independence were of our Fraternity, and for its support
pledged 'their lives, their fortunes and their s~cred honor. w.e know. well
their activities in defense of this newborn nation and how, wtth unstinted
courage from Washing ton down, they contributed so much to the successful formation of these United States. They acted as individuals, but
they were stimulated by what they had absorbed from their Masonic
affiliations. History has revealed what George Washington thought of
his Masonic institution-and how he recognized and wrote of its liberal
principles, founded on the immutable laws of truth and justice and whose
object was to promote the happiness of the human race--so that, und~r
the in,fluence of such ideals, it is understandable how he took the position he did when freedom was at stake. He reflected in his life the effect
of Masonic teachings. He, of course, did not stand alone as a member

of the Fraternity. So many of our brethren participated with him that
the history of this nation is graced in many volumes with the lives ot
those affiliated with us. It might well be said that American freedom
would never have been attained without the leadership of our fraternal
brethren.

219

Those of us who are familiar with the development of law in this
nation and particularly that law which shaped and outlined the paths
that our new nation should follow into strength after the Constitution
had been adopted, know that Jdhn Marshall, Chief Justice of the United
States Supreme Court for some 34 years, a Past Grand Master of Virginia, was responsible for giving us our present day conception of national unity. Incidentally, this year is the 200th anniversary of his birthand the American Bar Association dedicated its annual meeting to that
great American judicial leader, our brother Freemason who charted the
course of our national strength and destiny in the courts. He made his
Freemasonry a living force in his life and expressed its everlasting principles in his decisions. And again making history on that court with his
noble grasp and concept of human relationships is a Past Grand Master
of California, the present Chief Justice, Earl Warren.
All of these men who brought this nation into being and helped
carry it on truly represented the highest values in their Masonic indoctrination. They must be driving and exhilarating examples for us. Freedom is not something that, once obtained, will be ours just because we
had it. Can any words be more apt and especially today than those of
Washington when he said "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty"?
We are free to maintain our political liberty and it is important to us
as Freemasons that we do so, for it is in such an atmosphere that Masonry best flourishes and works and develops its program for the good
of all. We know well that our institution as such takes no part in the
political activities of the nation; but it certainly must serve to inspire the
individual member to an active participation in the life of the nation,
to an acceptance of responsibility for the protection of the nation and
to all necessary activity for a realization of its ideals, guided as were
its Masonic founders by the principles and philosophies of life developed
through our Masonic association.
Let us not ever forget that if we become indolent or careless or
casual or in any way weaken our will to maintain those freedoms, they
may become lost to us. Once we assume any such attitude we become
unfit for liberty and are not likely to enjoy the liberty and freedom we
possess. Certainly you cannot be unaware of the fact that there are
those in these United States who would gladly assume the role of dictators. This is not only confined to those who stupidly believe that life
might be enriched or that they themselves might enjoy power if they
allied themselves with such a cause as Communism. There are others
also who would deride the American freedoms as established by our

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

American forebears and set forth in our Bill of Rights and would gladly
hand this nation over to themselves or to institutions to whom and to
which the term freedom is an unknown factor. Let us not forget the
lessons of history in our own lives. We have seen nations, presumably
enlightened and civilized, revert to barbarism and savagery in a few
short years and destroy all freedoms among their people including the
right to be in Freemasonry. In those nations people were not alert to
what was happening about them. We must remember that lesson and
be alert to protect our freedoms. So we must take out into our daily life
every virtue that Masonry extols. We cannot leave this concern for
freedom to others but we as individual citizens must be the leaders in
every facet of life of the community and the nation.
Our President, Dwight Eisenhower. in a speech last January, outlined the faith of an American which should guide us as members of
this Fraternity because he expressed the trut.hs upon which we stand.
He said that Americans must have great fundamental belief in our national life, our common belief that every. human being is divinely endowed with dignity and inalienable rights-this faith with its corollary
-that to grow and flourish people must be free, shapes the interest and
aspiration of every American. He declared that we must maintain justice and freedom among ourselves and champion them for others so that
we can work effectively for enduring peace.
Those words might almost have been taken out of Masonic ritual
for they so well express Masonic aspirations. As a student of ·American
history, which he is, the President ·has imbibed the spirit of Washington and Franklin and those whom we admire for their courage and
valor in putting these aspirations into effect.
Let us here at this Annual Communication, take renewed faith in
the preachments of Masonry, so that we can contrive as workers in the
field of Freemasonry to serve our brothers and our nation in the continued maintenance of freedom. Let our faith and pride in our order
and its history and its traditions place us in the forefront of those citizens who are to be found strengthening the foundations of our freedom
and defending them as against those who would undermine such foundations. Let us not be found on the sidelines criticizing and doing
nothing, but let us be out there where the battle wages doing our part.
Keep in mind those fighting words of that enthusiastic American Freemason and patriot, President Theodore Roosevelt, when he said:

thusiasms~ the great devotions, spends himself in a worthy cause:
who at the best, knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who, at the worst. if he fails, at least fails while daring
greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid
souls who know neither victory nor def eat."

220

"It is not the critic who counts: not the man who points out
how the strong man stumbled or where the doer of deeds could
have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is
actually in the arena: whose face is marred by dust and sweat and
blood: who strives valiantly: who errs and comes short again and
again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming:
who does actually try to do the deed: who knows the great en-

221

While we are at this Communication and when we depart for our
homes, as members of this Fraternity, to which we have given our time
and devotion, let us remember that it is our individual responsibility to
see that we remain free. Let us each work so that we will realize and
continue forever to realize in the life of this great nation its promise of
freedom. If we do that by our participation as individual citizens, then
we know that the purpose of our institution will have been attained and
we will have supplied the fuel, the power and the motive force by which
it should survive through the ages to come.
Freedom is but another name for virtue. ·L et us gain here that wisdom which can strengthen us to maintain freedom and exemplify the
highest virtues of men. Our Masonry teaches us the wisdom of living
with our fellow men in peace and 'harmony: and Freemasonry because
of its international scope may be the means by which we can better
assist in bringing about peace between peoples and nations. At least
we can set such an example of living here that its influence will unquestionably spread and mankind generally will perceive its benefits and
through what you as individual Freemasons do will come to know,
realize and cherish the values that are represented by the term Freemason as they have been guarded, preserved and tran~mitted through
the centuries.
The future we face seems to offer so much of enlightenment and
enjoyment in the lives of our people, but only as we practice the virtues
we teach. Let us then by our renewed faith in ourselves and our Freemasonry so vividly demonstrate in our own everyday existence that
loyalty to God, that dedication to the principles of freedom, that concern for the welfare of our fellow men that is so essential, that not only
we ourselves by our devotion to these virtues, but generations to come,
may proudly and happily continue to proclaim "we are free."
The oration was received with a standing ovation.
On motion of Past Grand Master Frank Harwell. Jr.• the Grand
Secretary was authorized to have the oration printed and distributed to
the Lodges.
1

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF RITUAL COMMITTEE

side service and express our thanks to the Grand Chaplain fot his
assistance in this connection.
We recommend a different form of printing the Manual. to place
the instruction notes relating to acts and movements of the officers at
the foot of the page of the text, rather than to group them all at the
back of the Manual. The differences between the lodge room and chapel
services are thus noted on the same pages as the text.
In the instructions relating to the funeral service, we have included
the Grand Master's decision in 1949 relating to the order of services,
where there is another service in addition to the Masonic service. There
is no longer any requirement that the Masonic service come last, and
the order of services may be determined by the Master and the family.
We have also embodied in the instructions the Ritual Committee's
ruling in 1953 that at a funeral service outside the lodgeroom, the officers
and members alike should wear plain white aprons, without jewels,
and the Master should use neither hat nor gavel.
Our purpose in that ruling was to eliminate from the public ceremony
certain things which non-Masons do not understand and which, therefore, in some cases have been criticized. The use of the hat has been
particularly subject to criticism and has resulted in unfortunate incidents
which •have reflected upon the Craft. We feel that a funeral is no place
for the display of Masonic regalia and see no reason for use of officers'
jewels and aprons in the public ceremony. Furthermore, there is no
regulation governing the color or design of officers' or Past Masters'
aprons, and the aprons are of many different hues and designs. We hold
to the opinion ~hat every brother should be clothed with the badge of
the Craft, the white apron, in a simple, dignified tribute to the deceased.
Those present at the services are told that the lambskin apron-the
white apron-is the badge of a Mason, and there is no occasion for
some of the brethren to be clad in colored aprons. In the presence of
Death. the mighty leveler of ·human greatness, the time has assuredly
arrived When all distinctions should cease. We believe the experience
of the last two years has shown that the use of the white aprons contributes to dignity and simplicity of the service.
Your committee offers this revision of the funeral service and recommends its adoption by Grand Lodge.

AMENDMENT OF MONITOR

WHEREAS. the Monitor and Officers' Manual in the ceremony of
reception of Grand Lodge Officers does not specify who are entitled to
private Grand Honors, and some confusion has arisen from this omission,
RESOLVED. that the Monitor and Officers' Manual. page 60
thereof. be amended to add an instruction as follows:
"Note: The private Grand Honors are to be given only to the
Grand Master, the Inspector of the District on official visits, or
to a Grand Lodge Officer making a visitation to a Lodge by
direction of and as representative of the Grand Master."
The resolution presented by Lynn C. Dugan relative to Grand
Honors has been referred to the Ritual Committee. The Committee has
carefully considered the matter and does not hesitate to recommend the
adoption of the resolution in order to clearly state a fact which has been
true for a great many years.
Adopted.

REPORT OF RITUAL COMMITTEE
AS TO REVISION OF THE FUNERAL SERVICE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the last annual communication of Grand Lodge, a resolution was
adopted directing the incoming Grand Master to refer the funeral service
to a special committee to be appointed by him, or at his option to refer
it back to the Ritual Committee, for study and revision. The Grand
Master referred the matter back to the Ritual Committee, and pursuant
to that reference, and after much time and study, we have prepared and
present herewith a revised funeral service.
The Committee has had the benefit of many comments and suggestions from brethren throughout the state. It has also had the help of
such well-qualified advisors as Bro. Roy C. Bryan, chairman of the
Committee on Necrology, Bro. Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master
and a former Grand Lecturer, and the present Deputy Grand Master and
Junior Grand Warden.
Inasmuch as the funeral service is primarily given for the benefit of
the family of the deceased, one of our purposes has been to eliminate
from the language of the service such lugubrious passages as the
"chilling blast of Death." We have also eliminated the "ashes to ashes,
dust to dust" passage. Instead, emphasis has been placed upon the
references to immortality.
At the very beginning of the service, we have eliminated the reference to accompanying the remains to the place of interment, because
at the present time most services are concluded at the chapel and some
services precede cremation.
We have also added a short prayer at the beginning of the grave..

ELBERT W. DAVIS

Grand Lecturer, Chairman
RAYMOND G. TAYLOR
CLARE B. CAMPBELL
RALPH M. FOOTE
ARTHUR
KAHN
CLARK H. SHAW
DONALD G. CAMPBELL

J.

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FUNERAL SERVICE AS REVISED BY COMMITTEE ON
RITUAL, GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CAUFORNIA

service without confusion. The Master may modify or change seating
arrangements when necessary.
If the Masonic service only is to be used, Master and Chaplain
should enter from a convenient door near the lectern just before service
is to start, and proceed immediately.
The Master, officers and members alike wear white aprons, without
jewels, and the Master is without hat or gavel.
The family of the deceased and the Master and minister may decide
the order of the services. if a church or other fraternal service is to be
used in addition to the Masonic service, but the entire Masonic service
must be given. If the Masonic service follows the church or other fraternal service, the Master as an act of courtesy may request a participating ordained minister to deliver the final benediction.
If another service is to precede the Masonic service, the Master
and Chaplain should be seated with the other brethren until Masonic
service is to commence, when Master and Chaplain will take seats at
the lectern.

FOREWORD

The funeral service may be held (a ) entirely in the lodge room, or
( b) entirely in a chapel or home or church.
The forms of the two services are different. In each case, the
"committal'' is to be delivered at the final resting place, or at the place
where the Masonic service is concluded.
The language of the two services is identical. It is ritual and must
not be deviated from, nor are interpolations to be permitted except that
a eulogy may be delivered at the place indicated in the service.
Only a Master Mason can be given a Masonic funeral service. Fellow Crafts and Entered Apprentices are not entitled to Masonic funeral
services, nor can they join in the services as Masons.
All brethren in attendance should be dressed in dark clothes with
white aprons worn on the outside of the coat, without gloves. The
Master only wears the evergreen.
There is no Masonic funeral street procession.
Before the commencement of the service, the lambskin apron is
placed upon the casket, and the sacred roll is laid upon the Master's
pedestal. or on the lectern from which he is to deliver the service.
If the deceased is to be buried with "military honors," the casket
is draped with the flag of our Country, and the apron is placed in some
convenient position, but not upon the Bag. Otherwise, the apron is laid
Bat on the casket in usual position, with the cords caught up, each tied
in a bow at side of apron.
Care should be exercised to comply with any reasonable wish of the
family. If any special requests are made or there are any unusual
conditions, consult with the Inspector of the district before denying the
request or attempting to adapt the service to the circumstances.
FORM OF THE CHAPEL OR CHURCH SERVICE

This service is less formal than the lodge room service, and the
"form" must be adapted to the physical arrangement of the facilities
of the chapel or church. The only requirement is that the Master have
a passage way from his lectern to the casket, so that he may deposit
the Sacred Roll, etc.
The lodge may, but need not be opened, but if opened it must be
closed, as after the lodge room service.
The brethren informally assemble outside the chapel. Immediately
before the service, the brethren, except the Master and Chaplain, flle
into the chapel and take seats assigned to them immediately behind
the place allocated to the pallbearers. The Marshal should be seated
at a convenient place on an aisle, so as to take charge at the end of the

225

FoRM OF THE LoDGE RooM SERVICE

In advance of the service, the lodge is opened on the Third Degree
of Masonry "for the purpose of conducting the funeral of our late
Brother................................ ," and in regular form is called from labor
to refreshment for that purpose. The jewels are "broken" and the
columns changed. Thereafter, and before visitors are admitted to the
room, the casket is placed in usual position west of the altar, head to
the west. The.casket may be open or closed, according to the wishes of
the family.
A reasonable time before the commencement of the service, visitors
should be admitted to the lodge room, and ushers should be provided to
escort them to seats. The Master personally should meet the members
of the family at the entrance to the lodge room or anteroom and conduct
them to seats in the candidates' room or other "screened off" location.
All officers' stations are vacant and officers are outside the lodge room.
At time for commencement of the service, the officers form in procession
outside the Tiler's door, as indicated below: the junior officers do not
carry rods, which are left at their places, but all officers wear the jewels
and aprons of their offices. Master may wear hat or not, as he chooses,
but he does carry the gavel.
The procession is formed as follows:
MASTER
SENIOR WARDEN
TREASURER
SENIOR DEACON
SENIOR STEWARD

CHAPLAIN
JUNIOR WARDEN
SECRETARY
JUNIOR DEACON
JUNIOR STEWARD

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The procession, led by the Mars·hal, moves slowly and quietly
through the Tiler's door, turns north to a point in front of Senior Warden's station, then directly to the head of the casket, wbere Marshal
halts and about faces. The others continue to the north or south of the
casket and altar to their places. Those having places west of the altar
turn outward and back from the altar to their places. Senior Steward
goes to his place north and east of casket. Marshal then goes directly
to his place, and all officers are seated in unison.
The Master immediately rises and commences the service: "Brethren
and Friends, etc."

not." The almighty flat has gone forth-" Dust thou art, and unto
dust shalt thou return": and that we are all subject to that decree, the
daily observation of our lives furnishes evidence not to be forgotten.
Seeing, then, my brethren, that life is so uncertain, and that all material pursuits are vain, let us no longer postpone the all-important
concern of preparing for eternity: but let us embrace the present moment, while time and opportunity are offered, to provide for that great
change when all the pomp and pleasure of this fleeting world will pall
upon the senses, and the recollection of a virtuous and well-spent life
will yield the only comfort and consolation. Thus we shall not be unprepared to enter into the presence of the one all-wise and powerful Judge,
to whom the secrets of all ·hearts are known: and on the great day of
reckoning we shall be ready to give a good account of our stewardship
while here on earth.
With becoming reverence let us supplicate the Divine Grace, whose
goodness and power know no bounds, that, on the arrival of the momentous hour, our Faith may remove the clouds of doubt, draw aside
the sable curtains of the hidden world beyond, and bid Hope sustain
and cheer the departing spirit.
CHAPLAIN :-Most Glorious God! Author of all good, and Giver
of all mercy! Pour down Thy blessing upon us, we beseech Thee, and
strengthen our solemn engagements with the ties of sincere affection!
Endue us with fortitude and resignation in this hour of sorrow, and
grant that this dispensation from Thy hands may be sanctified in its
results upon the hearts of those who now meet to mourn! May the
present instance of mortality draw our attention toward Thee, the only
refuge in time of need. Enable us to look with eyes of Faith toward that
realm whose skies are never darkened by sorrow: and after our departure
·hence in peace and in Thy favor, may we be received into Thy everlasting kingdom, to enjoy the just reward of a virtuous and well-spent
life. Amen!
BRETHREN :-So mote it bel 8

226

THE FUNERAL SERVICE
(Key numbers refer to paragraphs of instruction in the footnotes.)

MASTER:-Brethren and Friends: It has been a custom among the
Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons from time immemorial, at
the request of a departed brother or his family, to assemble in the character of Masons and, with the solemn formalities of the Craft, to offer
up to his memory, before the world, the last tribute of our affection.
Our brother has reached the end of his earthly toils. The brittle thread
which bound him to earth has been severed and the liberated spirit has
winged its flight to the unknown world. The silver cord is loosed: the
golden bowl is broken: the pitcher is broken at the fountain; and the
wheel is broken at the cistern. The dust has returned to the earth as
it was and the spirit has returned to God who gave it. 1
'An anthem or other solemn music may here be introduced, aker which Master reads the
Sacred Roll. He then proceeds to the casket and repeats the next paragraph, ending
with "Almighty Father, etc."
In the lodge room service, Master :hands the Roll to Marshal, who goes to the south
side of .the casket and stands there While Master repeats: "Almighty Father, etc."

Almighty Father! Into Thy hands we commend the soul of our
beloved brother. 2
'Master deposits the Roll on the casket, and returns to his lectern.
In ·the lodge room service, the Marshal places the Roll upon the casket and returns to
his chair.

The Great Creator having in His infinite wisdom, removed our
brother from the cares and troubles of this earthly life, thus severing
another link in the fraternal chain by which we are bound together, let
us who survive him be yet more strongly cemented by the ties of brotherly
love: that during the brief space allotted to us here, we may wisely and
usefully employ our time, and, in the mutual exchange of kind and
friendly acts, promote the welfare and happiness of each other.
While we pay this fraternal tribute to his memory, let us not forget,
my brethren, that we, too, are mortal: and that our spirits, too, must
return to the God who spake them into existence. "Man that is born
of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a
flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth

227

'Solemn music may here again be introduced, after which the Master continues.
In the lodge room service, Master proceeds south of altar to a point west of casket,
and Senior Warden goes north of casket to ~t between the casket and altar, facing
each other, after which Master continues: Our brethren bas been raised, etc." .(If,
however, the major ·portion of those present are seated west of altar, the Master, at
hia election, may take a position between the altar and casket, facing west, in which
case Senior Warden would advance from ·his station directly to a point west of casket,
facing the Master. In this latter case, when returning to their stations, they would go
direct, without walking around the casket, the Master returning north of altar.)

MASTER :-Our brother has been raised in that blissful Lodge which
no time can close, but which will remain open during the boundless
ages of eternity. In that Heavenly Sanctuary, the Mystic Ught, unmingled with darkness, will reign unbroken and perpetual. There, under
the protection of the All-Seeing Eye, a·mid the smiles of Immutable

229

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Love, in that house not made with hands, eternal in the heaven s-there ,
my brethren , may Almigh ty God in His infinite mercy, grant that we
may meet again, to part no more.'·

shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there
be any more pain, for the former things are passed away."
8
(MAST ER:-Th e Marsha ll will now take charge. )

228

hands, and
'Master goes to side to casket, picks up apron by upper comers with both
repeats the next paragrap h.
and
In lodge room service, Master moves to south side of casket, picks up apron,
repeats the next paragrap h.

Tobe lambskin Apron is an emblem of innocence and the badge of a
Mason; more ancient than the Golden Fleece or the Roman Eagle, more
honorab le than the Star or Garter, or any distinction that can be conferred by king, prince, potenta te or any other person. By it we are
continu ally reminded of that purity of life and conduct so essentially
necessa ry to gain admission into the Celestial Lodge above where the
Supreme Grand Master of the Univers e forever presides.G
'Master replaces apron on casket. He then removes Acacia from lapel, and
while repeating 1the next paragrap h.

holds it

This evergreen, which once marked the tempora ry resting place of
one illustrious in Masoni c history, is an emblem of our enduring faith
in the Immortality of the Soul. By it we are reminded that we have an
imperishable part within us, which shall survive all earthly existence, and
which will never, never die. Throug h the loving goodness of our Sulike this evergreen,
preme Grand Master, we may confidently hope that,
11
spring.
eternal
in
flourish
r
hereafte
will
our souls
'Master deposits acacia upon casket, remaining at side of casket. of the casket.
In lodge room service, Master now returns to hls place at the end

We shall ever cherish in our hearts the memory of our departe d
brother and, commending his spirit to Almigh ty God, we trusting ly
leave him in the hands of that Beneficent Being who ·h as done all things
well: who is glorious in His Holiness, wondro us in His Power, and
boundless in His Goodness: and it should always be our endeavo r so to
live that we too may be found worthy 7to inherit the kingdom prepare d
for us from the foundation of the world.
(Note: A eulogy may be delivered at this point, by a selected brother, if desired, after which the Master proceeds.)

'Master returns to lectern.
to stations (Master
In thel lodge room service, Master and Senior Warden return
note 3) ,
north of casket and altar; Senior Warden to south of casket and altar; see
time.
same
at
down
sitting
Warden is
If eulogy_ is not to be given, Master does not sit down, but when Senior·
•.
proceeds
seated, Master

MASTE R:-We extend to the bereave d relatives and friends of our
departe d brother our sincere sympat hy in this hour of sorrow, and we
pray that "He who tempers the wind to the shorn Lamb" will give
them His divine comfor t and consolation, and that they may come to
realize that the spirit of our brother is happy in his Father' s house,
where "God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and where there

---

, Master
'If the "committal.. (next paragrap h) Is to be given at the place oftointerment
be completed in
here says, "The Marshal will now take charge.. ; but if service is
of the brethren
chapel or lodge room, this order Is not given until after the response
by Marshal and brethto Chaplain 's benediction. (See instruction 10 for movements
ren.)
and gives ft.
If the ..committal.. Is delivered in the chapel, Master goes to side of casket
to south side of casket.
In the lodge room service, Master leaves his .station and goesdeceased
.
removes bis hat, If worn, and stands as if talking directly to
the service
If the remains are to be cremated, the "committal .. should be omitted, and
concludes with the Chaplain 's benediction.

MASTER:-Soft and safe to thee, my brother , be thy resting place!
Bright and glorious be thy rising from it! Fragran t be the acacia sprig
that there shall flourish! May the earliest buds of spring unfold their
beauties o'er thy resting place, and there may the sweetness of the summer's last rose linger longest! Though the winds of Autumn may de.stroy the loveliness of their existence, yet the destruction is not Jlnal,
and in the springtime, they shall surely bloom again. So, in the bright
morning of the resurrection, thy spirit shall spring into newness of life
and expand in immortal beauty, in realms beyond the skies. Until then,
9
dear brother, until then, farewell!
CHAPLAIN :-The Lord bless us and keep us! The Lord make His
face to shine upon us, and be gracious unto us! The Lord lift upon us
the light of His countenance and give us peace! Amen!
'Master returns to his lectern.
of altar,
In lodge room service, Master returns to his station west of casket and north
.
Chaplain
by
delivered
then
is
on
benedicti
and
(xxx)
gavel
sounds

BRETHREN :-So mote it be!
SERVICE AT GRAVESIDE11
CHAPLAIN:-Heavenly Father, as we come to perform the final act
of parting from our brother , grant that we may have an inspired vision
to enable us to look with faith beyond the veil, and that our hearts may
know the continuing presens e of a soul now set free from the limitations
of mortality. We pray Thee to give us the strength to bear our daily
burdens until we, too, shall enter into the Celestial Lodge above, to
dwell with those who have served with us here, until time shall be no
more. Amen!
CHAPLAIN :-The Lord bless us and keep us! The Lord make His
lift upon us
face to shine upon us, and be gracious unto us! The Lord
18
the light of His countenance and give us peace! Amen!
11
MASTER:-Soft and safe to thee, my brother , etc.
10
(MASTER :-The Marsha l will now take charge. )

230

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-On receipt of order to take charge, brethren informally ftle out of chapel under direction of Marshal and funeral director, and form a double line, facing inward, forming
an aisle from door of chapel to hearse. Master and Chaplain remain at lectern until
all ·have retired: then they and pallbearers retire, leaving family with casket until
called for by funeral director.
In lodge room service, on receiving the order, Marshal forms brethren in double file
on north side of lodge room facing east. All officers, except Master and Chaplain,
who remain In place, move as when receiving jewels, but halt in northeast comer In
same order as when they enter the lo<f qe room. Master Masons (except pallbearers
who remain in place) fall in behind. Marshal then leads group by way of the east
and south, past casket and out Tiler's door to building entrance, where group is halted
and brethren divide leh and right and face inward. Visitors follow the brethren out
of lodge room. Solemn music should be played during formation and passing of the
procession. A:her visitors ·have left the room, the Master and Chaplain retire to a
pJl!_ce outside of Tller's door.
When called for, the Master, Chaplain and pallbearers return and, with the Master
and Chaplain In the lead, conduct the casket thro'!gh the aisle of brethren to the hearse.
When a church service has also been used, the Master may invite the ordained mintiter to walk with him in the Chaplain's place.
In the lodge room service, after the family leaves the lodge room. the pallbearers,
Master and Chaplain return to the lodge room and, with the Master and Chaplain In
the lead, conduct the casket through the aisle of brethren to the hearse.
uu the entire service has been concluded in the chapel or lodge room, the ofBcers and
brethren need not accompany the remains to the grave or vault, but If Master and
Chaplain elect to do so, a simple prayer may be offered at the place of interment.
If the service is to be concluded at the place of Interment, the Master and Chaplain
should accompany the remains to the last resting place. The other brethren should
repair to the place of interment, and with the officers form an aisle of brethren from
hearse to last resting place, officers nearest the hearse. With Master and Chaplain
leading, the casket Is conducted to the grave or vault The officers and brethren turn
In and follow the casket as It passes through_ the aisle. Master and Chaplain take up
positions at head of the grave, the Senior Warden at the foot. Other brethren, under
direction of the Marshal, are grouped formally at any convenient place.
U"Committal" from previous service.

REGALIA AT FUNERALS

srrhe ofBcers (and bttdiren) return to the lodge, If It has been opened. call It to labor,
and close In regular form.

Adopted.

FUNERAL RITUAL AMENDMENT

Following changes in Funeral Ritual are proposed:
1. The one offtciating at the service should wear the Jewel and
Apron of that offtce; not the hat. Dignity is needed badly in our
service and this will add materially.
2. Have the Senior and Junior Deacons with crossed staffs over
the casket at all times during the service, except during the
prayers. He was made a Mason under these staffs and it is my
belief that he should pass on that way.
3. Delete the words "by chilling blasts of death" in the very last
paragraph of our ritual. To me this not only is depressing and
also chilling to the bereaved, but also superfluous. I have eliminated it in the last few funerals I have put on.
This Committee has carefully considered the proposals for change
in Funeral Ritual submitted by Past Master Hustler. We recommend
that the proposed changes be not adopted.
The motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

231

The real question is, what are we seeking to accomplish--a dignified,
simple tribute to the deceased, or an exhibition of Masonic regalia?
Those in favor of the use of jewels and officers' aprons claim that
it adds to the dignity of the funeral service. Just how does the use of
these things lend dignity to the service?
It has always been our law that in the absence of the master or
wardens, any Mason may read the funeral service, in which case there
would be no jewels nor an~ apron except the plain white apron. Does
that mean any lack of dignity? If so, we should change our law.
Protestant ministers are accustomed to rendering funeral services
without any regalia or paraphernalia whatever, except the Bible or
prayer book. Is there any less dignity to such a service than a service
by several priests garbed in lace and colored robes, swinging censors
over the casket?
The dignity of the funeral service depends upon the wording of the
service and the manner of the rendition of the service.
The listeners are told in our funeral service that the lambskin apron
-the white apron-is the badge of a Mason. How then can it add to
the dignity of the service for half the brethren to be clothed with white
aprons and the other half to be clothed in colored aprons, gray, light
blue. dark blue, light purple, dark purple, or even yellow or gold aprons?
There is no regulation of this Grand Lodge which prescribes either the
color or the design of officers' aprons or of past masters' aprons; they
may be of any color of the rainbow.
The answer which seemed most reasonable to the Ritual Committee
was that everyone should wear a plain white, a clean white, apron
without distinction between the brethren.
The Ritual Committee are unanimous in recommending that the
proposed change in procedure be not adopted.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.
Following the report of the Ritual Committee, the Committee on
General Purposes made their report on items concerning the Memorial
Temple Program which had been referred to them. For convenience of
reference these matters have been assembled in the Proceedings with
the other matters reported on by the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
At 5:50 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:00 A.M. Wed~
nesday.

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

the proper keeping of records. The records required to be maintained
are of vital importance not only to the Lodge, but to Grand Lodge, and
we suggest that more attention be given to the qualifkations of Masters
and Secretaries in their administrative duties.
There is much of interest that we could report of every Lodge under
dispensation, but we feel it would be an imposition on the time of this
Grand Lodge. In general, we find that these new LOdges have attracted
a substantial number of candidates, also many sojourning Masons have
sought affiliation, and that this increase has not been detrimental to
existing Lodges. Also, their records reveal satisfactory financial conditions and the prudent use of their income. Their neighboring Lodges
have been helpful and keenly interested in the success of the newcomers. They ·have enthusiastically entered into the programs sponsored by
Grand Lod9e, as the Honor Rolls of the Endowment Fund and Memorial Temple bear witness.
We, therefore, r~commend that Charters be granted to:
Opportunity Lodge No. 740 in the County of Los Angeles
Tyre Lodge No. 741 in the County of Los Angeles
Morningside Park Lodge No. 742 in the County of Los Angeles
Oakwood Lodge No. 743 in the County of Los Angeles
San Leandro Lodge No. 744 in the County of Contra Costa
Peninsula Lodge No. 745 in the County of San Mateo
Soquel Lodge No. 746 in the County of Santa Cruz
Claude H. Morrison Lodge No. 747 in the County of San Diego
Highland Lodge No. 748 in the County of San Bernardino
Merced LOdge No. 749 in the County of Merced
Mother Colony Lodge No. 750 in the County of Orange
Hamilton Lodge No. 751 in the County of Marin
Luther Burbank Lodge No. 752 in the County of Sonoma
Lawndale Lodge No. 753 in the County of Los Angeles
San Pablo Lodge No. 754 in the County of Contra Costa
Golden Bowl Lodge No. 755 in the County of Los Angeles
Clayton Valley Lodge No. 756 in the County of Contra Costa.
Channel Lodge, located in Stockton, was instituted July 8, 1955.
None of the officers of this Lodge have any substantial past experience
in Lodge work and, of course, have only worked together a brief time
in the Lodge. While they are a very eager, hard working group, we
feel they need further time to develop and demonstrate their ability to
conduct Lodge affairs in general and that they will become a stronger
and better ·L odge by working a year under dispensation.
We, therefore, recommend that Channel Lodge U.D. be continued
under dispensation for the ensuing Masonic year.

MORNING SESSION, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1955
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:00 A.M., the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain invoked the blessing of God. The minutes
of the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, October 25th, were
read and approved.

RETIREMENT PLAN
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, at the 106th Annual Communication Grand Lodge directed that the Grand Lodge office employees be placed under the Retirement Plan. now in effect for employees of the Masonic Homes,
Now, therefore, Be It Resolved that the Grand Master and Grand
~ecretary be authorized to do all things necessary to implement integration of Grand Lodge office employees into the Masonic Homes Retirement Pension Plan.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
P.M., Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528
The Committee on Jurisprudence -r eported their concurrence in the
above resolution.
Adopted.
The ·Grand Master honored Brothers William Henry Hackett and
Frederick Calvin Clark with seats in the East and directed the attention of the Brethren to the fact that they have been members of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 for a half a century and have served together as
Treasurer and Secretary, respectively, for 48 years.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters reports as follows:
As you 'have already been informed, the Grand Master has granted
dispensations for the formation of 16 new lodges. Of these 14 have
petitioned for Charters. In addition, the 4 lodges continued under dispensation at the last Communication of Grand Lodge have applied for
Charters, making 18 in all.
These 18 Lodges have submitted their records as required and they
have been carefully examined by this Committee. Where important
errors or omissions were found, they have been or will be corrected. In
this connection may we say that too little attention is being given to

233

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

234

El Rancho Lodge of Whittier was instituted September 7th and
West Covina Lodge on October 7th. These Lodges have not applied
for charters.
We, therefore, recommend that they be continued under dispensati on.
GLENN C. HOLMES
WM. R. HERVEY, JR.
HAROLD MEYER
CYRILL. WEEKS
KENNETH R.. FORD
BROWN ZARLEY
WM. E. H. KNIGHT
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
SAM E. LEDDELL
WILLIAM H. ADAMS
RALPH
YoRK

w.

Adopted.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California: .
Your Committee on Taxation has had presented to 1t several questions relating to claimed exemptions for donations to the b~ilding of
Masonic temples-particularly with reference to the exemption of the
donors from their income tax liability.
As stated in our previous reports (Proceedings, 1953, page 310) •
the Committee does not believe that any deduction may be made from
Federal income tax by reason of contribution to a Masonic Temple Association. Nothing has come to our attention since that report to change
the situation in any manner whatever.
Similarly, the liability for social security has not been changed since
enactment of the law which went into effect January 1. 1954. In that
Act the previous exemption for ritualistic work was elim~~ted and since
that time the organist and all ritualistic officers, providing they meet
the minimum wage test of $50.00 or more per calendar quarter, must
be reported.
On the other hand, changes have been made in the California State
Unemployment Act. Sectipn 641 of the California State Unemployment
Insurance Code fixes the minimum for employment at $50.00 per calendar quarter. Ritualistic service is also still excluded so far as the
California State Act is concerned.
.
In addition, Section 652 of the California Unemployment Insurance
Code states that any elected official in the e~ploy of any n~npr?ftt fraternal organization or association is not sub)ect to the Cahfornta State
Act if his wage does not exceed $100.00 per month, providing that his
lodge is also not subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act. A lodge

235

is not subject to the Federal Unemployment Act unless it has at least
eight paid employees who get more than $50.00 per calendar quarter.
Few, if any, lodges would therefore come under the Federal Act.
To summarize, there 'has been no change in the income tax setup
nor the Federal Social Security requirements with reference to fraternal
organizations.
With reference to the California State liability, a·ll ritualistic
employees are excluded and all paid employees are excluded if their
wages are less than $50.00 per calendar quarter: if their wages are
$50.00 or more per calendar quarter, they would come under the California State Unemployment Act.
No elected official of a lodge (such as secretary) is liable to the
California State Unemployment Act if his wage does not exceed $100.00
per month, unless the lodge has 8 or more employees earning $50.00 per
calendar quarter and the lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment
Tax Act, in which latter event the exemption would be only for such
employees as earned less than $50.00 .per calendar quarter.
Any secretary who is thus exempt from paying the unemployment
tax, and who has paid taxes since July l, 1954, may claim a refund. He
should feel free to do so because he would not have been paid benefits
since July 1, 1954. On the other hand, if any employee who is thus
exempt desires to be under the unemployment act, he may file an election and the procedure to effect such election may be obtained by consulting .the Unemployment Commission.
Because of the delay incident to the publication of the proceedings,
the Committee suggests that this report be printed and copies sent to
each secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
R. P. WISECARVER
ROBERT R. YORK
}AMES E. HAMMOND

The report was received by title and ordered printed in the Proceedings.

236

PROCEEDINGS OP TH~

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
For Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1955
The Investment Committee begins its sixth year of operation this
August l, 1955. It seems appropriate that each year's Investment Committee report give a certain amount of historical background and basic
information regarding its purposes and principles, inasmuch as a large
number of members present are attending Grand Lodge for the first
time. We hope such information will be helpful to those who wish to
avail themselves of it.
The Prudent Man Rule in modified form was adopted by Grand
Lodge at its 1950 Communication. For Constituent Lodges the same
Prudent Man Rµle was adopted in 1951.
The lnvestmen°t Committee of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
was formed for the purpose of administering the investable funds of
Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California, and the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund. The Committee does not supervise the
investments of Constituent Lodges. Grand Lodge makes the services
of its investment advisor available to the Lodges. The investment
advisor keeps the Committee informed as to the use of such services
by the Lodges. Because of the use the Lodges are making of this
service, the Investment Committee feels that the ex·p enditure is justi&ed.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge is compQsed of the
Grand Treasurer, the Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of
the Finance Committee, the President of the Masonic Homes Board
of Trustees or a Trustee of that Board designated by him, and the
Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board or a member of
that Board designated ·by him. The President of the Masonic Homes
Board of Trustees has designated Brother Past Master Ralph H. Head
and the Chairman of the Endowment Board has designated Brother
Past Master John W. Davey, as members of the Committee.
By Ordinance, under Section 86 for the investment of Grand Lodge
funds and Section 152.1 for investments by Constituent Lodges, the
following provisions were promulgated:
GROUP I. At least 40% of the funds available for investment
must be in:
A ) Cash and/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political
subdivisions.
D) Such other securities as are legal investments for California
savings banks.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

237

GROUP H. Up to 20% may ·be invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an exchange registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
B) Preferred stocks, which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
GROUP III. Up to 40% may be invested in:
A ) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance company stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
With respect to the authority to in~est in Group II and III, the
Ordinance reads as follows: "No such investments, however, shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market value
of the securities referred to in this section exceeding twenty per cent (or
forty per cent) of the total market value of all the cash, bank accounts
and securities held"-the controlling point being that there cannot be
more than 20% or 40% invested in Groups II and Ill, respectively, at the
time of purchase.
Since its formation the Investment Committee has met regularly
every three months. Between quarterly meetings, the business of the
Committee is handled by correspondence or telephone, and this procedure has pro\ren satisfactory.
We have just completed flve years of operation. The following is a
summary of the consolidated market values of securities owned, plus
investable cash, together with a record of dollar income on these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950, and each succeeding fiscal
year, through July 31, 1955, including the percentage income on the
market value of each year:
CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE
OF SECURmES AND INVESTABLE CASH•
(BY GROUPS AND TOTAL) AND DOLLAR INCOME (In PuentheHll)
*Included in Group I and Earning Savings Bank Interest
Date•
11/10/IO
11/IS/51

I/ 4/521
7/11/GS
7/11/5'

7/Sl/'U

TOTALS
GROUP III
GROUP II
GROUP I
Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Pereent Amount
$5,658,329 92.4% S lOJ,140
4,112)
($94,280)
S89,000
4,558,243 75.1
($16,652)
($74,084)
574,096
4,218,637 6S.4
($20,832)
<S85,827)
nt,527
4,693,120 es.a
($19,IH)
($102,181)
771,147
4,151,29' 51.8
($17,HI)
($95,258)
178,110
1,810,941 55.5
(U,IH)
<SlH,Ul)

<•

5.9'JIO $6,124,471
1.7'JIO $ 354,003
($120,598)
($22,056)
5,972,968
1,025,725 17.2
8.5
<SUS,939)
($63,203)
&,648,854
1,85&,lZl 27.9
8.7
($205,272)
($98,614 >
7,381, 305
2,208,658 29.9
e.5
590)
($23&
($114,815)
8,401:255
1,278,81' H.O
9.1
($275 Z9S)
('152,07&)
10,1Zt"4
S,820,0H S7.8
1.7
(S09,U5)
($158,SH)

rt8a

p In-.

*;:~.,..
.,.,
2.11
a.09

1.11

.....
3.28 '

238

The book value as of July 31, 1955 was $8,996,099, and the market
value was $10,129,644, or an increase above book value of $1,133,545.
Net profits of approximately $470,000 have been taken prior to July 31,
1955-therefore the profits taken and the appreciation (not taken as of
July 31, 1955) amount to a total of $1,603,545. The profits taken
always remain as part of principal and never of income.
Contributions, gifts and bequests have also, of course, added materially to the dollar total.
The percentage income on book value has risen from 1.97% to
3.44%, or in dollars from $120,598 to $309,345.
It was suggested that we show the increased income on book value
in percentages and in dollars since the adoption of the Prudent Man
Rule. In 1950 the income was $120,598. For the year ending July 31,
1955, the income was $309,345, hut inasmuch as some of the added income came from contributions, gifts and bequests, it would not be correct
to say that all of this added income occurred as a result of the Prudent
Man Rule. There is, however, a method by which we can make a fairly
accurate comparison. The percentage income on book value in 1950
was 1.97%. For the year ending July 31, 1955, the income on book
value was 3.44%-therefore, there was an increase of 1.47%. The
total book value was a few dollars less than $9 million dollars. The
1.47% increase in income on $9 million equals $132,300. To this amount
of $132,300 there should be added an amount equal to 1.97% on the
profits taken of $470,000, because without the Prudent Man Rule there
would have been no such opportunity to make a profit-so, 1.97% times
$470,000 equals $9,259 which, added to $132,300 makes total added
income as a result of the Prudent Man Rule for the year ending July 31.
1955 of $141,559 (225,000 members-63<: per capita).
The unrealized .profits of $1,133,545, as well as the entire portfolio,
are, of course, always subject to fluctuations-and there will always be
fluctuations in price.
We report the above facts and figures as information only, and for
no other reason.
The total valuation figures include $339,675 in U. S. Government
Series F bonds, but income from these bonds is not included in the income figures as that income is paid only at maturity. If income at 2.53%
were included, the income per year would be increased by $8,593.78.
(The 2.53% is the rate earned if held to maturity). The bonds mature
$297,675 in 1956, $39 ,800 in 1957 and $2,200 in 1959. If this income
were added to the figures, the rate of return on book value would be
3.53%, and on market value it would be 3.14%. Inasmuch as we do not
receive the current income, however, we do not include it in our income
figures.
1

239

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

The total security valuations do not include the 33,985 shares of
Masonic Temple stock (25 Van Ness Avenue), nor is any income therefrom included, as they are carried in the reports as a separate item,
their value having been indeterminable. As a matter of information,
these shares have been sold since July 31, 1955, for $7.50 per share,
or a total of $254,887.50, and this money is now in the hands of Grand
Lodge.
Following is an exhibit of the consolidated investment portfolio of
Grand Lodge, with the market values as of July 31, 1955, divided into
the various groups and showing the percentage value of each group,
together with the income return for each group.
GRAND LODGE F. 81:. A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONSOLIDATED PORTFOLIO-July 31, 1955
(Market Value)
SUMMA.RY
Amount
GROUP I
Cash ..........................$1,642,000.00
U.S. Governments .. 3,247,812.00
2,000.00
Municipals ..............
Railroad Equip......... 725,000.00
14,130.00
Public Utility............

Per Cent

Total Group L. ...$5,630,942.00

55.5%

Income

$ 32,840.00•
73,053.00
45.00
20,253.00
'430.00
$126,621.00

GROUP II
Bonds:
2,000.00
Municipal ............ $
4,165.00
Public Utinty........
Industrial ······-···· 242,000.00
4,800.00
Real Estate............

$

80.00
1114.00
7,563.00
150.00

$ 252,965.00

$

7,907.00

Preferred Stocks:
Public Utility........$ 82,188.00
Industrial ............ 343,457.00

$

3,323.00
13,164.00

$ 425,645.00

Total Group II $ 678,610.00

Return

2.25%

$ 16,487.00

6.7%

GROUP III
Railroad ....................$ 23,200.00
Public Utility............ 1,632,892.00
Idustrial .................... 1,547,765.00
Finance .................... 616,235.00

$ 24,394.00
$

3.60%

1,400.00
74,233.00
59,033.00
23,664.00

Total Group IIL..$3,820,092.00

37.8%

$158,330.00

3.13%

Grand Total........$10,129,644.00

100.0%

$309,345.00

3.05%

•at2%

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Our investments have continuous advisor y service from Moody 's
Investo rs Service, who have given us very satisfac tory supervision. The
attenda nce of their represe ntatives at our meetings, as well as that of
the members Qf this Committee, has been excellent at all times. We also
had the pleasur e of the attenda nce of Most Worshi pful Henry C.
Clausen , Grand Master, at our August meeting, as well as Brother
Byron Colema n, represe nting the Endowm ent Board. Brother Past
Grand Master Charles M. Wollen berg, Preside nt of the Masoni c
Homes Board of Trustee s, attende d the Februa ry meeting.
The list of the entire portfolio will be found in the Auditor s' Report
and is therefor e not included herein. The securities are held in safekeeping by the Trust Departm ent of the Anglo Californ ia Nationa l
Bank, at its main office in San Francis co.
With respect to the Constit uent Lodges, beginni ng with Decemb er
1, 1951, through July 31, 1955, Moody 's reports the following use of
its service, which service is made available by Grand Lodge without
cost to every Lodge in our jurisdiction:
Numbe r of Lodges making inquiry................................141
Numbe r of Lodges presenti ng portfoli os for analysis and
review .•................................................................••.. ! 04
Total Dollar Value of Portfolios Reviewed.... $3,580,00.00
Numbe r of Lodges reporting to Moody~s on action
taken ........................................................................ 101
Numbe r of reviews subsequ ent to initial reports........... .469
The office of the Grand Secreta ry will gladly furnish a copy of the
procedu re and Ordinan ces respecting investments to any inquiring
Lodge.
It will •be observe d from the detailed figures that investments in
Group II are very low in percent age-nam ely, 6.7%. The primary
reason for this small percent age is the difficulty of finding suitable investments in this categor y. Railroa d equipm ent trust bonds would
qualify for Group II if they were listed. They have an excellent paying
record. They have another distinct investm ent advanta ge--the y mature serially. and therefor e can be bought in various maturities as desired. They are not listed because no two issues are ali_k~. ~ach is~ue is
secured by specific railroad equipment, and as a result 1t 1s impracticable
to list them. Conseq uently, the Investm ent Commi ttee wishes to offer the
following amendm ent which will make it possible to purchas e such
issues in Group II:
"Resolv ed: That the following be added to Sections 86, 2a and
152.1, 2a: •except that this listing requirem ent shall not include railroad
equipm ent trust issues'.''-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

241

We do own some railroad equipments now in Group I, but they
qualify as legal for Califor nia savings bank investment, and listing therefore is not necessary.
In closing, we wish to report that the Investm ent Committee continues to pursue a very conservative policy, as will be seen by the
amount s invested in the three categories, namely Groups I, II and III.
Our thanks to the Grand Secreta ry, the Assista nt Grand Secreta ry,
and to the members of the Investm ent Commi ttee for their wholeh earted
and generous support at all times.
Respect fully submitt ed on behalf of the Investm ent Comm itteePAUL A. PFLUEG ER

Referre d to Commi ttee on Finance .

Chairman

REPO RT OF COMM ITTEE S ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Uxlge of California:
Your Committee on Creden tials reports the total number register ed
2433. Of the 635 Lodges all but 23 have represen tation. Of the 23
Lodges that are not represe nted by either a Master, Senior Warden ,
Junior Warde n or represen tative, 7 Lodges have one or more register ed
Past Masters . Of the 20 new U.D. Lodges, 18 are registered. We also
have register ed 19 ·Grand Lodge Officers of other Jurisdictions outside
of the State of California.
Lours SuTTER
WILBUR D. CROSBY
THOMA S F. MASON
CARROL L A. TREFTS
HERBER T H. ELING
JosEPH J. PAPE

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Membe rs submits the following report
covering the 106th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to compensation are the duly accredi ted represe ntatives of each lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters , officers of Grand
Lodge and the chairma n and me.mbers of the committees enumer ated in
Section 68 of the Ordinan ces who are actually in attenda nce at Grand
Lodge.
Compen sation of members has been computed on the basis of twice
the one way first-class railroad fare plus Pullman sleeper where neces-

242

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

sary. As has been the custom for many years, no compensation is allowed to members .from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or
where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
Transpor,tation rates have been computed from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the payroll with
the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials. The amount required to meet the transportation costs for the
195 5 Convocation is as follows:
Grand Lodge Oftlcers.......................................... $ 839.90
Past Grand Masters............................................
367.06
Committees .......................................................... 1,315.08
Inspectors ........................................................... . 4,584.92
Representatives of Lodges.................................. 21,611.28

Total. .........................................................$28,718.24
We of ,the Committee miss the presence, due to illness, of Brother
John V. Bacigalupi, and we express our hope for his rapid recovery.
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, and the AngloCalifomia National Bank, for making the necessary arrangements so
that members may cash their checks in this building at the close of the
Grand Lodge session. Checks will be ready for distribution following
the election of the Junior Grand Warden, Friday morning at the Registration desk, Polk Hall. Checks not called for will be mailed by the
Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
KEITH W. ScHLAEGEL
MATTHEW M. CoooN
ALEX. D. POTTS
THOMAS W. S. Wu

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

. 243

MEMORIAL SERVICE
Wednesday, October 26, 1955

I-Organ Solo.
2--Song, Even Bravest Heart.......................................••..........•......Gounod
.3--lnvocation...............................................................- .....Grand Chaplain
A--Song. "Requ1em
. ...................................................... ( Stevenson) Homer
"1'.
5-Report of Committee on Necrology.
6--''Taps'' ......................... ,+•··•······"·•--~_. ......... 1-....._...B. S. Spence, U.S.A.
'/.-Benediction............................. - .....................................Gtend Chaplain

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
From colonial days there has been a tendency among our people
to follow a movement or slogan to extremes. These movements have
been political, economic, religious and social. At the moment there is a
mass action toward what has been termed "security." If we would lay
aside our wishful thinking and face the stern realities of existence we
would realize that security is not of this world. We would also realize
that there is no security guaranteed or implied as to our most valuable
possession-life itself: for it has been truly said that we are here today
and gone tomorrow.
Another bit of wishful thinking is the desire on the part of most
human beings te perpetuate their names. It is given to few men to write
anything upon the pages of history, and among those who do most are
remembered only to be despised.
The greatest eulogy that can be given to any man is that he has
not lived in vain, and that the world is better because he passed this
way. There is no finer exam.pie than our Fraternity of the unselfish
service, the working together of our members toward making this a
better world for good men, gentle women and little children, in which
to live. We know from ex'Perience and observation how quickly the
names of our dead pass into the limbo of forgotten things. But their
works will never die. Generations yet unborn will profit by their efforts
and their sacrifices.
Death is relative. It is rare indeed when the day's news does not
bring us accounts of floods, hurricanes, e~quakes, tragedies great
and small, where the loss of life may be only a few or in numbers great.
But when the ipeople involved are not known to us, and when the
catastrophe occurs at a great distance, we will do what we can to
relieve the distress of the survivors, but for the dead we do not grieve,
neither do we moan.
But when death draws nearer and nearer and its shadow falls across
the pathway of our friends, those who are near and dear to us and to the
immediate members of our families, then we do grieve and we do moan.
In our loss and in our sorrow it is most fitting and most proper that

245

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

we pause in our deliberations to pay our respects to, and express our
love and admiration for, the 270 members of this Grand Lodge who
since the last Communication have answered the final call.
The heaviest toll was taken of Crockett Lodge No. 139 which lost
five of its Past Masters. Fidelity Lodge No. 120 lost 4, nine lodges
lost 3 each: forty lodges lost 2 each, and one hundred fifty-four lodges
lost 1 each.
The oldest ·member of this Grand Lodge in point of service to be
taken was Richard Boland Williams of Ferndale Lodge No. 193 who
was raised May 23, 1891, thus serving the Fraternity for 64 years.

His activities in the Grand Lodge of California were many. He
was Grand Sword Bearer in 1935: Chairman of DeMolay activities
committee for four years; DeMolay by-laws committee for one year,
and was a member of the board of directors of the Masonic Club House
atU.C.L.A.
Charles Listenwalter was a kind and gentle man, courteous to all,
helpful when help was needed. and one who spread good cheer to all.
His friends were legion, and his passing leaves a void that will not be
filled soon.

2H

CHARLES EMERSON LISTENWALTER

Death came to Charles Listenwalter Thursday, September 15th, at
his home at 375 Rimpau Boulevard, Los Angeles. Charles was born
May 28, 1877 in Pana, Illinois. and received his education in the Middle West, graduating from Lake Forest University with a degree of
LL.B. He came to Los Angeles with his parents, Emanuel and Margaret Listenwalter, in 1894, and spent the balance of his life in that
vicinity.
He married Miss Daisy Weller on July 29, 1899. Of this union two
children were born, a son Ward, now living in San Gabriel. and a
daughter, Mrs. Shirley Morosco of Los Angeles. He is survived by
his widow, his two children and a grandson.
Charles' entire business career was in electrieal supplies. He organized the Listenwalter and Gough Electrical Supplies Company, and was
its president for many years.
He was one of our best known and most beloved members. His
Masonic career began April 25. 1891, when he was raised in West
Lake Lodge No. 392. He was Master in 1928, and served as president
of the West Lake Masonic Association for almost a quarter of a century, and was an active member until his passing.
He was a member of the Royal Arch, Hollywood Commandery and
Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine. In the latter organization he was
active in the uniform bodies, serving for 22 years, and for a time was
president and secretary of his group. He was a member of the board
of directors of the Midnight Mission of Los Angeles, that great charitable organization which cares for the backwash of humanity which is
found in all our large cities.
He had a deep affection for the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite.
He received the Thirty-second Degree in the Los Angeles Bodies in
1922. He was honored with the Rank and Decoration of Knight Commander of the Court of Honor in 1945. In October 1953 the Supreme
Council in Washington, D.C., bestowed upon him its highest honor by
electing him to receive the Thirty-third Degree. The degree was conferred in January 1954.

JoHN RYLE MAcGREGOR, SR.

Members of this Grand Lodge are noted for their loyalty, devotion
and service to the Fraternity. It is rare indeed when one has suc'h. an
outstanding record that his passing has an effect upon the whole community as well as upon the members of his lodge. Such was the effect
when John R. MacGregor. Senior Past Master of Sequoia Lodge No.
349, entered into rest January 31, 1955, age 91 years.
"Jr.," as he was affectionately known, was elected to receive the
degrees on November 10, 1902, initiated November 17, passed November 24. and raised December 1, of the same year. The first man to receive the Third Degree after the lodge received its charter, he was
appointed Junior Steward in 1904 and filled the Master's Chair in 1908.
He was Chaplain of the lodge from 1931 to 1938, Tiler from 1938 to
1952, and again Chaplain until his death. He was officers' coach, serving in that capacity for 52 continuous years. December 2, 1952, he
received the 50-year Emblem from the Grand Lodge.
Brother MacGregor was born December 10, 1863, in Middleton,
Nova Scotia. He received his primary education in the schools of
Canada, completing his studies in the United States. In 1890 he came
to Oakland, and spent the remainder of his life in that city.
He was a contractor by profession, but was so interested in civic
affairs that when both interests claimed his attention he always decided
in favor of civic duties. In 1896 he served as a member of the Adeline
Sanitary Board. From 1909 to 1911 he was a member of the City Council of Oakland. He and Mrs. MacGregor worked to establish the first
fully equipped playground in the city, later to be known as Bushrod
Park. They were also responsible for the first free kindergarten in the
city, w'hich later became a part of the Oakland Public Schools system.
"Jr." was married June 10, 1890 to Miss Henrietta Weaver of Santa
Clara County, California. He is survived by a son John, a daughter
Helen, and three grandchildren.
His counsel and inOuence had much to do with the great success
of Sequoia Lodge. As one who remained humble, one who could always
.6nd time to do deeds of kindness for his friends and brethren, he will
long remain an inspiration to all who knew him.

246

247

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALBERT VERNON y OUNGS

do not say goodbye to our brethren, nor do we say farewell-we say
until we meet again, then we shall renew the brotherhood in life eternal.

In the passing of Al Youngs on April 6, 1954, California Masonry
lost one of its most brilliant and enthusiastic followers.
Al Youngs was born in 1911 in the City of Los Angeles: attended
local schools: married in 1932: served two years in the United States
Infantry during the late war: was employed variously in the luggage
and jewelry business, and at the time of his death was general manager
of Glassform, Inc.
His progress in Masonry was exceptional. It began in 1941 when
he petitioned Menorah Lodge No. 623. He was raised in March the
same year, appointed to office the following December, and in 1949
served as Master. In the Centennial Year of 1950 Grand Master Ells~
worth Meyer appointed him Inspector of the 554th District and for the
next four years he served with great distinction. He was a member of
various Grand Lodge Committees and was notably prominent in the
work of the Scottish Rite Bodies.
Al was an exceptionally fine ritualist. Gifted with a clear and power~
ful voice, he was not only a model for the officers of his own Lodge
and for the officers of his district, but also an inspiration to all who
were fortunate enough to hear him in his work for the Scottish Rite.
Brother Youngs is survived by his wife, Ellen, three children, Bar~
hara, Richard and Melinda, and friends more numerous than come to
the lot of most men.
Al Youngs was a man of great fortitude, faith and hope. These
qualities were strikingly exem.plifled in his last illness. Realizing that
the end was near he did all in his power to spread cheer among others.
His efforts along these lines bring to mind the words of the poet Gold~
smith:
"Hope, like the gleaming taper's light
Adorns and cheers our way:
And still, as darker grows the night,
Emits a brighter ray."
We will miss Al. but we thank Almighty God that he was one of our
friends.

*

*

*

Our brethren are gone. Never again in this world will we see their
smiling faces nor feel the warm clasp of their hands in friendship.
Never again in this world will we be the benefactors of their advice
and counsel, nor hear their words of hope and cheer.
But we do not despair, for we have our faith and God's promise
that we shall meet again. That it will not be long, and the wisest among
us cannot say how long, before that meeting shall take place. So we

Roy C. BRYAN
Ross K. ROPER
ADAM B. MORTEN
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH
ROBERT
McGAHEY

J.

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
Weatem Star Lodge No. 2:
Thaddeus Alonzo Jones, died October 7, 1954.
Royal Tiler Sprague, died December 6, 1954.
Corinthian Lodge No. 9:
Melvin Henry Jacobsen, died May 22, 1955.
Arthur Walter Gluckman, died June 1), 1955.
San Joae Lodge No. 10:
Sanford Lord Bacon, died July 28, 1955.
Georgetown Lodge No. 25:
Charles I. Martin, died June 28, 1955.
El Dorado Lodge No. 28:
Albert Simon, died May 26, 1955.
Howard Lodge No. 37:
Marion Dayley, died July 3, 1955.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
Bertram Bernard Snyder, died Feb. 22, 1955.
Walter Leek Robinson, died April 1, 1955.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Samuel Charles Goodman, died February 20, 1955.
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
Keith Cutten Murray, died November 15, 1954.
Suisun Lodge No. 55:
Rouel Drinkwater Robbins, Jr., died January 30, 1955.
Live Oak Lodge No. 81:
Charles Nelson Shane, died May 27, 1955.
Natoma Lodge No. 64:
Barton Carter, died February 5, 1955.
Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76:
August P. Nelson, died October 13, 1954.
Henry Arsate, died October 28, 1954.
Frank C. Adams, died December.31, 1954.
Calaveru Lodge No. 78:
Milan G. Dragomanovich, died June 25, 1955.
Vesper Lodge No. 84:
Frank Lewis Doan!- died September 2, 1954.
Leroy Greer, died .1rebruary 15, 1955.
Naval Lodge No. 87:
David Rochfort Doherty, died February 3, 1955.
Clay Lodge No. 101:
William Frederick Hughs, died November 10, 1954.
Oroville Lodge No. 103:
Stephen Fowler Bonner, died June 25, 1955.
Pajaro Lodge No. 110:
Floyd David Burwash, died November 27, 1954.
Chico Lodge No. 111:
.
William Harper Nunn, died June 1, 1955.
Summit Lodge No. 112:
Walter Bismarck Willms, died June 13, 1955.

248

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Concord Lodge No. 117:
James Francis Lyon, died August 24, 1954.
Chester Edward King, died December 20, 1954.
Wm. Henry Gilbert, died January 1, 1955.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
William Joseph Archer, died December 16, 1954.
Roy Block, died January 4, 1955.
Albert Franklin Neumann, died February 1, 1955.
'·
· George Kahn Manheim, died May 28, 1955.
Lafayette Lodge No. 126:
Delos Dwight Downie, died May 4, 1955.
Hermann Lodge No. 127:
Jakob Rauscher, died November 25, 1954.
Albert C. Schra!t, died July 7, 1955.
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129:
Henry Carrington Jasper, died November 28, 1954.
Crockett Lodge No. 139:
Peter Jorgensen, died September 13, 1954.
John Logan Stevens, died December 28, 1954.
Francis James Daly, died March 1, 1955.
Bernhard Stork Pedersen, died March 9, 1955.
Daniel Albertson Stivers, died June 19, 1955.
Oriental Lodge No. 144:
Herbert Morgan Jeffreys, died February 13, 1955.
Excelsior Lodge No. 166:
Lewis Clarence Hunter, died November 12, 1954.
James Dooley Ryan, died May 13, 1955.
Mission Lodge No. 169:
Sherman Augustus Bishop, died November 23, 1954.
William Conrad Strickler, died June 13, 1955.
Phoenix Lodqe No. 178:
Roy William Kelly, died November 24, 1954.
Arbuckle Lodge No. 182:
Benjamin Edison Perkins, died March 15, 1955.
Clear Lake Lodge No. 183:
William John Robbert, died February 21, 1955.
Keith Lodge No. 187:
John Burnett Goodwin, died May 2, 1955.
Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Harry Benner, died May 28, 1955.
.
Marin Lodge No. 191:
Ralph Everett Murphy, died March 22, 1955.
Ferndale Lodge No. 193:
Richard Roland Williams, died March 17, 1955.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198:
Harry Easton Gannaway, died February 7, 1955.
Charles E. Moore, died July 8, 1955.
Silveyville Lodge No. 201:
Oliver C. Dunn, died January 17, 1955.
Salinas Lodge No. 204:
Chester F. Abbott, died December 14, 1954.
Francis N. Hitchcock, died February 8, 1955.
Olivet Lodge No. 205:
William Herbert Samson, died July 15, 1955.
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206:
Belwood Chase Hawkins, died March 16, 1955.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
Oliver Orval Poquet, died February 24, 1955.
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214:
Clarence Edgar Thompson, died July 10, 1955.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Oak Grove Lodge No. 215:
William Edwin Horrisberger, died May 16, 1955.
Henry Ferguson Strachan, died April 29, 1955.
Walter Carl Wickman, died January 16, 1955.
Doric Lodge No. 216:
Nathan Joseph Glass, died October 22, 1954.
Earl Raymond Ross, died June 3, 1955.
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219:
Guisto Leone, died August 7, 1954.
Roseville Lodge No. 222:
Thomas J. Fleming, died December 31, 1954.
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225:
Chester V. Newell, died August 10, 1954.
Calistoga Lodge No. 233:
Edward Ephriam Light, died April 23, 1955.
Smprise Valley Lodge No. 235:
Homer H. Beeson, died June 13, 1955.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237:
William MacDonald, died January 15, 1955.
Jack Martin Silva, died April 21, 1955.
Colusa Lodge No. 240:
Richard Grover Power, died September 26, 1954.
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243:
Martin J. Madison, died November 12, 1954.
Otto Carl Fink, died March 9, 1955.
Elmer Gaylord Quinn, died July 10, 1955.
Laurel Lodge No. 245:
Harlow Mortimer Plimpton, died September 30, 1954.
Lewis Edmund Tuttle, died November 13, 1954.
Landmark Lodge No. 253:
Vernon A. Mast, died June 3, 1955.
Louis Crist Schlote, died June 17, 1955.
Reading Lodge No. 254:
Rudolph Andrew Saeltzer, died October 21, 1954.
Welcome Lodge Ho. 255:
William Ross McKay, died December 7, 1954.
Lodi Lodge No. 256:
William Henry Croswhite, died March 3, 1955.
Hesperian Lod1,e No. 264:
Dudley "D ' Brady, died August 27, 1954.
Durant Lodge No. 268:
Grove Edward Herrmann, died May 8, 1955.
.
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269:
Joseph Glazebrook Nelson, died February 26, 1955.
Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271:
William Henry Stites, died January 29, 1955.
George Lemuel Mason, died March 30, 1955.
John Vernon Sheann, died June 4, 1955.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272:
Charles Herbert Kelley, died February 11, 1955.
Anchor Lodge No. 273:
Alonzo Frank Hann, died July 9, 1955.
Arroyo Lodge No. 274:
Harry Archer Truesdale, died August 25, 1954.
Oakdale Lodge No. 275:
Hughie Celo Coslet, died August 31, 1954.
John Muir Reid, Jr., died February 11, 1955.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293:
Prentice Floyd Curl, died May 21, 1955.
Warner Bryant Williams, died June 7, 1955.

249

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

TraTer Lodge No. 294:
Philip Nathaniel Olson, died March 6, 1955.
Frederick Schaffer, died March 8, 1955.
Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295:
James Harold Morris, died June 15, 1955.
Liberty Lodge No. 299:
Charles Whitney Tenny, died June 5, 1955.
Ontario Lodge No. 30h
John Gordon Pennington, died January 8, 1955.
Reedley Lodge No. 304:
Cleo Clyde Curnutt, died May 17, 1955.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307:
Louis Henry Doescher, died April 1, 1955.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308:
Harry L. Alexander, died May 17, 1955.
Los Banos Lodge No. 312:
Thomas Clayton Mott, died May 2, 1955.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:
·
Arthur Bartlette White, died March 3, 1955.
Temescal Lodge No. 314:
James Lemuel Davis, died August 21, 1954.
Harry Lloyd Whealey died June 28, 1955.
Walter William Walkfey, died July 20, 1955.
Sanger Lodge No. 316:
Ivan Deloss Kennedy, died January 8, 1955.
Emanuel Lodge No. 318:
George L. Beilby, died March 11, 1955.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
Lewis Augustus Hauser, died February 5, 1955.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322:
Gordon Charles Lea Ross, died May 16, 1955.
Whittier Lodge No. 323:
John Philip Wyatt, died January 4, 1955.
John Louis Malcho, died March 8, 1955.
Corona Lodge No. 324:
Ralph Sparling, died December 1, 1954.
Russell Milton Loesch, died July 19, 1955.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329:
Herman Giederman, died December 5, 1954.
Covina Lodge No. 334:
Thomas Black Reed, died August 20, 1954.
Wells Clayton Merwin, died November 7, 1954.
West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Irwin Dana Nokes, died June 16, 1955.
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338:
William P. Blodgett, died Auril 9, 1955.
Edward O. Cooper, died July 30, 1955.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346:
Howard C. Miller, died January 6, 1955.
Robert L. Cody, died January 23, 1955.
McIClnl!f Lodge No. 347:
William Brook Richmond, died November 25, 1954.
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348:
·
Fred B. Conklin, died April 17, 1955.
William Carlton Roberts, died May 3, 1955.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349:
Ralph Everett York, died August 10, 1954.
John Ryle MacGregor, Sr., died January 31, 1955.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Palestine Lodge No. 351:
William Harrison Light, died November 16, 1954.
George Howard Borden, died November 26, 1954.
Presidio Lodge No. 354:
Clarence Maxwell Cheney, died April 17, 1955.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355:
Neil Tate, died December 6, 1954.
Golden State Lodge No. 358:
Fred Goodrich Robb, died November 16, 1954.
Theo Robert Voelkel, died May 22, 1955.
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361:
Ralph W. Todd, died August 8, 1954.
Charity Lodge No. 362:
Wm. Burns Enochs, died April 15, 1955.
Willits Lodge No. 365:
William Provines, died November 5, 1954.
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366:
William Reeves Tanzer, died December 31, 1954.
le Progres de L'Oceanie Lo~e No. 371:
Gustav Carl Berchert, died August 2, 1954.
Percy Gynlais Hiwa Deverill, died November 13, 1954.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373:
John F. Travis, died March 1, 1955.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376:
Harry Lear Holston, died March 3, 1955.
Oc:eamlde Lodge No. 381:
William Robinson Cregar1 died July 16, 1955.
Jacob Martin Geopfert, died March 1, 1955.
Orosl Lodge No. 383:
Orville Lynn Beckner, died January 29, 1955.
El Centro Lodge No. 384:
Harry Learned Barker, died June 7, 1955.
Coalinga Lodge No. 387:
Charles Lewis Kinney, died December 31, 1954.
Parnassus Lodge No. 388:
Bruce Wale, died October 10, 1954.
Horace Reuben Spaulding, died December 6, 1954.
Eut Belt Lodge No. 391:
Norman Howard Settlemoir, died October 30, 1954.
Francis Christopher Holman, died November 26, 1954.
West Lake Lodge No. 392:
Lewis Ernest Forsblom, died February 17, 1955.
Balder Lodge No. 393:
Karl Fredrick Strandberg, died September 4, 1954.
Apollo Lodge No. 396:
George Sprague Williams, died November 25, 1954.
Rialng Light Lodge No. 397:
James Oscar Treadwell, died July 26, 1955.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400:
Gilbert Dent Ferrell, died June 4, 1955.
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403:
Robert Lee Hutchison, died December 8, 1954.
Burbank Lodge No. 406:
Henry Amos Story, died November 19, 1954.
La Mesa Lodge No. 407:
R. Bruce Carmichael, died June 17, 1955.
Honolulu Lodge No. 409:
Charles Russell Frazier, died December 13, 1954.
BllTer Trowel Lodge No. 415:
John Santry Taylor, died February 10, 1955.

251

252

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lindsay Lodge No. 416:

James Renwick McBride, died May 7, 1955.

Elysian Lodge No. 418:

Enoch Aaron Troxel, died Jwie 6, 1955.
Kerman Lodge No. 420:
Elmer Elsworth Kaufman, died April 25, 1955.
York Lodge No. 423:
William Joseph Schramm, died December 6, 1954.
Midway Lodge No. 428:
William Henry Fenneman, died March 11, 1955.
James Martin Monroe, died September 17, 1954.
Charles Millard Russell, died November 12, 1954.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427:
Fredrick Alson White, died April 11, 1955.
San Dimas Lodge No. 428:
Charles Devens Fairbanks, died April 11, 1955.
Arthur Beverly Hall, died October 28, 1954.
Henry Grady Mills, died April 22, 1955.
McCloud Lodge No. 430:
Benjamin Albert Purcell, died April 16, 1955.
Alpha Lodge No. 431:
William Purdue Self, died November 11, 1954.
Standard Lodge No. 440:
Harry Dixon Adkins, died June 20, 1955.
Blackmer Lodge No. 442:
William Potter Kemper, died January 13, 1955.
Schofield Lodge No. 443:
Victor Hugo White, died June 4, 1955.
Arthur Saudray Harrington, died Jwie 5, 1955.
Park Lodge No. 449:
Edward John Drolette, died June 4, 1955.
San Pasqual Lodge :No. 452:
Vernon Guthrie Howell, died October 17, 1954.
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
Carl McKinley Taylor, died July 9, 1955.
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
Alexander Campbell Anderson, died August 26, 1954.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458:
Arthur Guy Karicofe, died February 13, 1955.
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462:
Harry Maurice Simons, died August 13, 1954.
Libertu Lodge No. 466:
William Arthur Eardley, died April 1, 1955.
CulYer City Lodge No. 467:
Adin Adelbert Randall, died December 31, 1954.
Rockridge Lodge No. 468:
Marion S. Barnes, died November 10, 1954.
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469:
William C. Fricke, Jr., died August 10, 1954.
Lincom Lodge No. 470:
Lesle Elijah Garren, died April 6, 1955.
Delta Lodge No. 471:
Loys Tyler Newton, died March 9, 1955.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478:
Nelson James Frater, died April 29, 1955.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479:
Louis Leroy Mullins, died April 5, 1955
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481:
Thoinas Francis Quinn, died June 28, 1955.

Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482:
Harry Dean, died September 6, 1954.

George Alphonsus McCarthy, died May 19 1955
·
'
Wales MacPerdue, died Jwie 26, 1955.

Albert Pike Lodge No. 484:

John Raymond Hays, died October 28, 1954.
Vallejo Lodge No, 487:

Vi!g!J. Vivian Lee, died April 19, 1955.
William Wayne Yowigman, died July 25, 1955.
East Bay Lodge No. 489:

George Shephard Bennett, died February 24 1955
Loren Arthur Painter, died November 15, 19S4. ·
Atascadero Lodge No. 493:

Roy David Gilstrap, died June 27, 1955.

Acorn Lodge No. 49':

Seymour Reed Frizelle, died March 2, 1955.

Mount Olive Lodge No. 506:

Thomas Chester Relph, died August 30, 1954.
George Arthur Oarey, died November 10, ll,)54.

Joppa Lodge No. 508:
Forest Bell Trull, died March 24, 1955.
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511:

Andrew Rob~rtson Sillers, died March 31, 1955.
Leo Harry VJShoot, died December 16, 1954.
Cahuenga Lodge No. 513:
Clarence Ward Murphy, died November 20, 1954.
Euclid Lodge No. 519:
Ernest Ray Wilson, died October 2, 1954.

Ionic Lodge No. 520:

Albert Roy Wager, died October 29, 1954.

Piedmont Lodge No. 521:

Edwin John Allan Watts, died December 10, 1954.
George Washington Lodge No. 525:
Roscoe Cole, died March 14, 1955.
Covenant Lodge No. 527:
Orrin C. Welch, died November 6, 1954.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529:
Joseph Jacob Strauss, died November 21, 1954.
Forest Hill Lodge No. 534:
John Henry Thompson, died May 31, 1955.
Utopia Lodge No. 537:
George Leask, died March 16, 1955.
Belvedere Lodge No, 539:
Harry Frampton Tucker, died May 6, 1955.
Glendale Lodge No. 544:
William Henry Flynn, died December 28, 1954.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546:
Arthur B. Carroll, October 20, 1954.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547:
Harold Bayley Disney, died May 20, 1955.
Triangle Lodge No. 548:
James Franklin Johnston, Sr., died January 8, 1955.
Justice Lodge No. 549:
William Alexander Speers, died July 27, 1955.
Seaport Lodge No. 550:
Arthur Henry De Guire, died October 29, 1954.
John Donaldson McReynolds, died January 20, 1955.
Hermosa Lodge No. 557:
Charles Frank Schmid, died February 19, 1955.

253

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Point Firmin Lodge No. 558:
David Stewart Packard, died February 7, 1955.
William Henry Liggett, died March 30, 1955.
Pyramid Loc:lge No. 562:
Otto Kratsch, died. June 18, 1955.
Park Boulevard Loc:lge No. 568:
Harry Lee Houck, died January 8, 1955.
Military Service Loc:lge No. 570:
William Rudy Vonn, died May 16, 1955.
Junes Madison Lodge No. 572:
Merton Lynn English, died December 15, 1954.
Santa Maria Lodge No. 580:
Cleason Ambler, died July 18, 1955.
Security Lodge No. 581:
Clarence R. Meikel, died April 3, 1955.
Thomas Alexander McElheny, died June 15, 1955.
Rialto Lodge No. 582:
Roscoe Elliott Watts, died September 16, 1954.
Garden Grove Lodge No. 586:
Charles L. Lake, died. June 14, 1955.
Lafayette A. Young, died June 18, 1955.
Valley Forge Loc:lge No. 587:
Bart J. Wood, died May 27, 1955.
Compau Lodge No. 590:
Lyman Curtis Guise, died November 4, 1954.
Grissly Lodge No. 601:
Orval Francis Dack, died June 20, 1955.
Melrose Lodge No. 602:
Winslow Parker Sunbury, died October 14, 1954.
Jubilee Lodge No. 604:
Polk Aubrey Dowell, April 27, 1955.
Canoga Lodge No. 611:
Herbert Walter Allen, died May 23, 1955.
Three Pilla.rs Loc:lge No. 613:
Charles Burto,!l Essex, died November 30, 1954.
Point Loma Lodge No. 620:
Harry Preservid Sweet, died January 10, 1955.
William Edward Nelson, died April 25, 1955.
Menorah Lodge No. 623:
Albert Vernon Youngs, died April 6, 1955.
Leroy Dyer Church, died August 12, 1955.
Fairview Lodge No. 629:
Glenn Eugene Pomeroy, Sr., died. October 29, 1954.
Paliaades Loc:lge No. 637:
Howard Edward Riley, died February 11, 1955.
·
La Cumbre Loc:lge No. 642:
George Reed. Hoyt, died July 7, 1955.
Lomita Lodge No. 644:
John Glen Wilson, died March 26, 1955.
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645:
Frederick W. Smith, died May 19, 1955.
Metropolitan. Lodge No. 646:
Daniel Tudor, died December 26, 1954.
·
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655:
Charles J. Nichols, died March 2, 1955
La Habra Lodge No. 659:
J. A. Templeton, died April 4, 1955.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662:
Olin E. Hopkins, died August 18, 1954.
Frank Brown Wheat, died May 8, 1955,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

255

Ojai Lodge No. 663:
Alvah Ray McCoy, died Nov. 21, 1954.
San Gorgonio Loc:lge No. 668:
Howard Auryansen Osborn, died October 1, 1954.
Altadena Lodge No. 678:
Allen Fraser Clark, died. February 8, 1955.
Trona Lodge No. 684:
Samuel Benjamin Levin, died May 4, 1955.
WrrJ., D. Stephens Loc:lge No. 698:
Stanton A. Bruner, died May 1, 1955.
.
Anacapa Lodge No. 710:
Bernard Chester Mickle, died December 20, 1954.
Magnolia Park Lodge No. 715:
Douglas McKenzie Wilson, died May 7, 1955.

At 10:10 Grand Lodge was called off until 9:00 A.M. Thursday.

256

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CEREMO NY OF BREAKIN G GROUND
of

CALIFOR NIA MASONIC MEMORI AL TEMPLE
The Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters, distinguished
guests and representatives of the Lodges were transported to the ~ob
Hm site for the ceremony of breaking ground to start the construction
of our California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Following a concert from 10:30 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. by the San Francisco Municipal Band under the direction of Don Frank, the Ground
Breaking Ceremony took place, concluding at 12:00 noon. It was the
consensus that about 4,000 persons were in attendance.
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, was presented
by L. Harold Anderson, Senior Grand Warden and Chairman of the
·Ground •Breaking Ceremony Committee with the following remarks:
"Ladies and gentlemen, may I wish you a pleasant Good Morning?
And may I introduce myself? I am L. Harold "Pete" Anderson, Senior
Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of California, which includes
Hawaii as well as California, and chairman of the committee for this
ground breaking ceremony for the California Masonic Memorial Temple to be erected here by the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons.
"You have been enjoying a concert by the San Francisco Municipal
Band. Thank you for that fine music, gentlemen. And I want also to
thank all those who have assisted me in this endeavor. In the interest
of time I shall not name them, but I want them to know their efforts
are appreciated.
"At this wonderful location high atop Nob Hill, we stand amidst
historical spots. We are gathered, if you please, on the crown of the
beautiful and historically colorful lady known as San Francisco. We
intend to add another jewel to that crown, and with the history of the
Grand Lodge of California dating back to the April preceding California's admission to the Union in 1850, we feel eligible to enjoy that
privilege.
"From this hilltop, as well as on it, could be seen many events in the
•history of San Francisco and of California. Early-day residents co~ld
see the first clipper ships gliding through the Golden Gate. The tiny
town of Y erba Buena came to life and became the little town of San
Francisco ... then the little city amidst the sand dunes-then the big
city-then the holocaust of 1906-then San Francisco, the Phoenix,
rising from its own ashes. fo 1906, by the way, our ~r~nd Lodge was
at the location now occupied by the Crocker Bank budding at Post and
Montgomery Streets. That beautiful structure was destroyed.
"I shall not dwell on Masonry's history, but have mentioned it only

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

257

to point out that Masonry has been a vital and important part of San
Francisco, as well as of California and Hawaii, ~or more than a century.
Now, we are about to start work on a Temple which will adequately
dig~fy the 105-year history of our Grand Lodge.
''It is quite proper in view of what I have recited that the present
Grand Master of the California Grand Lodge of Masons should be the
Chairman of this program. The Honorable Henry C. Clausen is a nativeborn San Franciscan. · Aside from his love of, and his interest in, his
own city, he has demonstrated his respect for his state and for his
nation. He is a former state president of the California Junior Chamber
of Commerce. He served with distinction in World War U, as a lieutenant-colonel in the Judge Advocate-G eneral's Department, and was
a member of the Board of Inquiry assigned to investigate the attack on
Pearl Harbor.
"I take pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, in introducing to you the
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen of San Francisco, Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California. Mr.
Clausen."
The Grand Master made an appropriate address of welcome and
introduced Lieutenant Governor Harold J. Powers, a member of Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235, who responded as follows:
"California Masonry is rich in its history and in its achievements as
an institution, and the men who have been foremost in the work of Masonry-men who also were lea"ders in all moral and civic endeavor-are worthy of having their names and their accomplishments placed of
reeord, as patt~ns for the coming generations.
"In 1850, when the City of San Francisco was granted a charter,
there were already eleven Masonic Lodges in the State. The growth of
the City, the State and of Masonry have been just as substantial as the
ground which makes this great State of California.
"Masonry in California has fairly justified its claim to the principles
of Brotherly Love and Relief, and its record in this respect is worthy
of the best traditions of our institution. It has built monuments dedicated
to Good Deeds, and the hearts of its members have ever been attuned
to the cry of distress.
"Some visible monuments to Masonry in California are the two
Homes-on e at Decoto, Alameda County, for aged and dependent Masons, their wives, widows, and mothers: the other at Covina, Los Angeles County, for the care of dependent children whose fathers were
members of Lodges in this jurisdiction.
"The Masonic ·pioneers of the gold rush days in California brought
order out of chaos, and by adhering to the stern morality of Masonry,
laid the foundations deep and sure for stable government in this, our
California."

258

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother Elmer E. Robinson, Mayor of the City and County of San
Francisco and a member of Argonaut Lodge No. 461, was presented
by the G;and Master and addressed the gathering with these remarks:
"Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, illustrious
Past and ·Present Grand Lodge Officers, my brethren and fellow San
Franciscans:
"Today marks another great ~y in the history ?f S~n Francisco
as well as another great day in the history of Masonry m this great State
of California. We of San Francisco naturally are proud that the Gra~d
Lodge of California has found it appropriat~ to build. here. in our City
this fl.ve and one-half million dollar memonal to California war dead
Masons who gave their lives to perpetuate the freedom of many, the
fundamental teaching of Masonry. It is quite appropriate of course that
here in San Francisco where Masonry has through the past century
played such an important part, that this building should be dedicated
to those war dead. Every man who has had the privilege of affiliating
with the Masonic Fraternity knows that these men gave their lives that
men could remain free, and may this building of steel and concrete and
marble be another lasting reminder to all those who come in the days
to follow that Masonry and the men of Masonry are dedicated to free
,,
men.
The Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge, Milton D. Sapiro, a member
of Fidelity Lodge No. 120, then presented the colors. In makin~ reference to the American 8ag, the Hawaiian 8ag, the Bear 8ag of California,
and the ·flag of the Grand Lodge, Brother Sapiro spoke these words:
"At this ceremony of ground breaking, we have presented the four
ftags under which our lives have been enriched and to which we give
our loyalty.
"We have the 8ag of the Grand Lodge of California, consisting of
a white Square and Compass on the field of blue. The Square and Compass constitute the emblem by which a Mas~n is ~de~tifl.ed. It is t_he
emblem which always reminds a Mason of his obligations and duties
towards his fellow men and gives him a consciousness of the moral virtues he must observe. The blue background reminds him of the blue of
the heavens, his spiritual responsibility and ·his recognition of. the continual presence of the Supr~me Architect of the Universe.
"The jurisdiction of this ·Grand ~dge encompasses the Stat~ of
·California and the Territory of Hawau. So we have the 8ag of Cal~for­
nia, the thirty-first state, that 8a~ representative _of its Bear ~lag Reublic established through the thirst for freedom m the early history of
:ur Owfomia even before it was admitted as a state.
"Then we have the Hawaiian 8ag, with its eight stripes representing
the eight islands of the Hawaiian group and handed do~ fro_m its old
monarchy. This 8ag is interesting as a symbol of that Mid-Pacific Paradise because in its corner appears the Union Jack placed there about

150 years ago when the flag was originally designed by an English
explorer.
"And we have the 8ag of the United States of America, the emblem
of our country, the symbol of all we are and all we hope to be. This
flag means so much to us as Freemasons because so many of the founders of our country who worked to bring this nation into existence and
to preserve it over the years with its freedoms, were members of the
Masonic Fraternity.
"To it Masons render their salute and their pledge of devoted service. They recognize its red stripes as proclaiming the courage which
inspired men to freedom: its white stripes as representing liberty, personal and religious liberty, that marks the purpose of our nation: and
its blue background representing loyalty-loyalt y to all of the principles
of freedom expressed in our Constitution.
"It waves here over this ceremony, as it does over countless ceremonies in our country where men and women gather to express their
grateful appreciation that law and justice .prevail. We pledge that it
shall forever wave high o'er the Temple to be erected, and as its colors
are unfurled here, it shall stand as a symbol of human freedom for the
generations that follow. They will know the blessings of being free
under it as we do who gather here on this occasion to consecrate this
ground to the honor of those who had the courage and the faith and
willingness to sacrifice even unto death that the ideals represented by
that 8ag might be forever preserved."
The San Francisco Municipal Band then played the National Anthem after wh1ch the Grand Chaplain, Brother William E. McCormack,
a member of Ingleside Lodge No. 630, offered prayer.
"Blessed and glorious Lord God Almighty, by whose power, wisdom, and love all things are made sacred, illuminated and made perfect:
be merciful to us and bless us as we are gathered here to perform the
fl.rst •physical act of consecrating this ground for the erection of a temple for the Grand Lodge of Masons of California. Cause thy face to
shine upon us that what we now do may please thee, and show forth
the honor of thy holy name. Let thy work appear unto thy servants and
thy glory unto their children. And let the beauty of the Lord our God
be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us: yea, the
work of our ·h ands establish thou it. In grateful remembrance of those
whose lives have been given on the fields of valor may we erect there a
splendid monument: beautiful in its appointments and lasting in its testimony to our unforgetting thanksgiving of human loyalties to God, to
country and to brotherhood. May the Great Architect of the Universe
accept our labors for His own glorious purposes, now and evermore.
Amen."
Grand Master Henry C. Clausen then consecrated the ground, assisted by Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Deputy Grand Master: L. Harold An-

259

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Junior Gran d War derso n. Senio r Gran d Ward en: Leo E. Ande rson,
was similar to
which
of
age
langu
den, in the following ceremony, the
e:
servic
a corne rston e or dedic ation
nt.
"Dep uty Gran d Mast er. prese nts Com of Nourishme
Com is poure d upon the groun d.
shment.
Senio r Gran d Ward en prese nts the Wine of Refre
d.
groun
the
Wine is poure d upon
Junio r Gran d Ward en prese nts the Oil of Joy.
Oil is poure d on the groun d.
The Gran d Mast er conse crate s the groun d."
surer and Chai rEdwa rd H. Siems, Past Gran d Mast er, Gran d Trea
ing prese ntafollow
the
man of the Memorial Temp le Committee, made
ing:
Break
tion of the gold shovel for the Grou nd
"Mos t Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge and My Breth ren:
Maso nry in Cali"Thi s is a proud and happ y event in the histo ry of
of Maso ns from
effort
e
erativ
coop
the
fornia. It mark s the culmination of
the commences
mark
er
furth
It
.
iction
Jurisd
every part of this Gran d
headq uarte rs for the
ment of the construction of the futur e home and
ornia and for its
Calif
Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A.M. of
, a memorial
rnity
Frate
the
to
Maso nic charities. It will be a monument
and a credi t
om
Freed
for
all
their
iced
to those breth ren who have sacrif
to the St.ate of Calif ornia .
you this Gold en
"Hum bly, Most Wors hipfu l Sir, in prese nting to
do so on beha lf
I
ony,
cerem
nt
ancie
Shovel with which to execu te this
all Maso ns of
and
bled
assem
here
s
friend
of the faithful breth ren and
the break ing of groun d
Calif ornia withersoever dispersed. We know that
undy ing faith in the
our
by you with this shovel will give expression to
completed will be
when
le
great truth s of Maso nry, and that this Temp
for gener ation s
abide
shall
ity
Char
and
a Temp le wher ein Faith , Hope
to come."
d Mast er and SenThe Gran d Mast er, assist ed by the Depu ty Gran
d, place d the soil
groun
the
broke
ior and Junior Gran d Ward ens, then
l to Lloyd E.
shove
gold
the
and
it
nted
in a silver vessel and prese
who accep ted it for
Wils on, Past Gran d Mast er and Gran d Secre tary,
the Gran d Lodge with these remarks:
as Gran d Sec"On this historic occasion it is my special privilege,
l, this convesse
silver
this
in
e,
Lodg
d
Gran
retary , to receive for the
rved by
prese
be
to
secra ted soil, and to receive this Gold Shovel, both
in the
in
rema
er
forev
me and passe d on to my successors that they may
archives of the Gran d Lodg e."
d Mast er of MaMost Wors hipfu l Henr y Chris tian Claus en, Gran
g, durin g which
thron
bled
assem
the
ssed
addre
sons in Calif ornia , then
applause, and at the
·he was frequ ently inter rupte d with spont aneou s
cond usion of which he received a great ovati on.

261

r poet and arden t
"The y tell a story that when Goeth e, the maste
in his diary :
this
wrote
he
lution
Revo
h
Maso n, witne ssed the Frenc
in the his'From this place and this day dates a new epoch
there .'
was
I
say:
to
able
be
tory of the world, and you will
d break groun
of
vance
obser
"And so you who come to witness this
in Caliepoch
new
a
of
start
the
saw
ing will be able to testif y that you
e-hous
a
build
to
begin
we
today
For
nry.
fornia and Hawa iian Maso
d
passe
unsur
In this
to carry out a grand desig n upon our trestl e-boa rds.
art.
er's
build
the
of
ph
cathe dral settin g we shall rear a mode m trium
ially those who conThe architect, the artisa n, and the artist, and espec
ily perpe tuate their
happ
will
ble,
possi
tribut ed funds to make all this
ries.
memo
names and hono r their
will be a Mecc a
"As a migh ty cathe dral of Maso nry this Temp le
ence we feel for
rever
the
t
reflec
will
it
rial
for all Maso ns. As a memo
that we might live
those military men of Maso nry who gave their lives
ty. As a monu Liber
a last measure of devotion to the Holy cause of
ng with the
keepi
in
s
affair
mental home it will adequ ately care for our
nity. As a
frater
ed
belov
our
and
great grow th of our glorious state
testif y to
and
come
may
men
good
e
wher
sanct uary it will be a place
splen dor
and
beau ty
our faith in the Maso nic credo. As a build ing of
.
State
it will be a gener ous contribution to our Gold en
will be a const ant
"The imposing struc ture which shall stand here
over. In Euro pe
not
is
ers
build
dral
cathe
of
reminder also that the age
early opera tive breth today you can see the endu ring hand iwork of our
patie ntly laid stone
ren. They drew desig ns upon the trestl eboar d and
cathe dral spires,
ic
Goth
great
upon stone in the medieval era. Thes e
ring- that the
inspi
so
fty,
so_lo
sticpiercing the skies, were so maje
ozen music.'
e'-'fr
grac
ic
Goth
of
es
'glori
poet has called them truly
s the mediacros
t
They testif y to the tide of religious faith whic h swep
rve in rich
prese
They
eval world and lifted churches into the Heav ens.
nic build Maso
their
of
ty
vitali
symbolism the spirit ual impulse and the
ers.
impulse and vital"Wh en I speak of Maso nic build ers with spiritual
us this morning
with
here
nce
prese
ity, I think also of a man whos e
the holy cause
d
pione
cham
has
s
alway
he
makes us all so happ y. For
healt h and his money,
of liberty. He generously has given his time, his
the bette r migh t work
in business, civic and frater nal affairs, that we
nce in our heart s, a
mbra
and live. He truly has earne d endu ring reme
loves so well. So
he
City
this
of
recognition as secur e as the fair hills
n, and a cham Maso
t
arden
an
ican,
Amer
ng
I take off my hat to a sterli
pion of champions: Franc is V. Keesling!
work s of our
"Thi s year I was fortu nate to be able to view these
towe rs o.f
the
of
top
the
to
steps
the
up
ed
opera tive breth ren. I climb
ng pano htaki
breat
Notre Dame. As I looke d over the ramp arts at the
A Paris
dor.
splen
rama of Paris I saw an inspiring spectacle of pure

262

263

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

which, as Victor Hugo said. 'changes its face every fifty years.' I thought
of the changes which had occurred there since the medieval men of
Masonry. in a then small town. erected these ornaments of religious
faith. And yet, as I looked down upon the great Paris of today, I felt
that the successive panoramas of the past did not really record the history of humanity. Instead, the real history is that of the men-our Masonic ancestors-wh o built Notre Dame.
"These glories of Gothic grace must have matched an inner beauty.
an energetic civic pride, and a spirit of truth and of freedom of their
builders. What we see today are but material reflections of the priceless
truths which were inscribed in their hearts. For, overshadowing the
entire structute of Masonry is the concept of man as a temple builder
-the temple which is builded in his heart. As Albert Pike has told us,
'Masonry builds its monuments in the hearts of men.'
"Carl Sandburg has written a great book. 'Remembrance Rock,' in
which are these striking sentences:
'For we know when a nation goes down and never comes
back, when a society or civilization perishes, one condition may
always be found. They forgot whence they came, they lost sight
of what brought them along.'
"We know also that those early Masons not only included the architects, the builders, the stonemasons of their day, but also those thinkers,
scholars. teachers and students whose activities went far beyond the
building of cathedrals. They lived and worked in a time when a cruel,
tyrannical dogmatism had driven knowledge and science underground.
Those who sought to dispel the darkness of their day by the impact of
science, who wanted the winds of freedom to blow over their land.
who yearned for freedom of their bodies, freedom of their minds, and
freedom of their souls. met instead with the cruel torture chamberthe wheel, the rack and burning stake. And so the suppressed knowledge
of the day went into the then Masonic Lodges. These became sanctuaries of learning and enlightenment as well as centers for builders of
cathedrals. Thus, the men of Masonry kept alight the torch of truth and
passed it on from adept to pupil.
"We should never lose sight of our background of Masonic memories. We should know that from 1717 onward, as the new speculative
Masonry spread over the English-speaking world. so also did Masonry
contribute toward world wide freedom. Wherever Masonry penetrated
a new found freedom followed. The mind seemed released from medieval ignorance and medieval superstition. Men began to question the
so-called Divine Right of Kings, the established order of heredity, · inequality and any dogmatic. dictatorial church. The constant result was
a step forward-an emancipation of the human mind-a release from
fear.
"No wonder, therefore, that our Craft has had a dramatic •history.

It always has advanced the moral, the spiritual, and the cultural progress of mankind. No wonder that the great con.fluence of operative and
speculative Masonry in 1717 emerged from a travail of intolerance and
tyranny. The upright thinkers of the <lay also found in Masonic Lodges
a way to bring light to the darkness with which they were surrounded.
"So it was but natural when Masonry arrived in America that she
should come clad in the robes of freedom. One of the first things our
Masonic patriots of early America did in putting Masonry into action
was to bolt and rivet down into our pattern of life the fundamental
American concept that here shall be a wall of separation between church
and state. a real wall-a high wall-a fl.rm wall-never to be whittled
away.
"These men were far closer to their medieval brethren who knew all
too well the tortures of the Inquisition. They knew the lessons of the
Old World history because they were far closer to that history in point
of time. They knew that all hope for political freedom-all hope for
happiness~all hope for family-all hope for property-depe nded primarily upon religious freedom. They knew that none of the freedoms
set forth on paper would mean a thing under a C'hurch dominated government. For then there could be no real free speech. no real free press.
no real public assembly. no real trial by jury. no real right to contract
or right to own property.
"And so. Masons in the main-Masoni c minds directing Masonic
hands-wrote the Declaration of Independence. the Constitution and
the Bill of Rights. all of which add up to our concept of America. They
stamped this concept firmly upon the fabric of our country. They first
and foremost resolved that 'here in this land of ours there should be
liberty under faw rather than rule by men or by church. They gave
fervent accent to the glowing words of Thomas Jeiferson,
"In question of political power let no more be said of confidence
in man. but bind him down from mischief by the chains of the
Cons titu ti on.'
"And as time went on it was realized that if this distinctive American principle was to grow and continue and be perpetuated for posterity we must have schools-publi c schools-as a great melting pot where
children can be welded into American citizens. There would be left to
the church. to the family altar and to the Sunday school all matters of
religion. And also there would be left to any church. if it so desired and
at its own expense, the right to conduct its own church schools. They
knew, as plain, practical, common sense, that in relations between
church and state 'good fences make good neighbors.'
"And so we remember that when our forefathers placed stars in our
national flag the reason was set forth in congressional act of June 14,
1777. For the .Congress, in adopting the flag. prescribed:
'The Union shall be thirteen stars in a field of blue, representing

264

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

a new constellation, symbolizing stars in the heavens, signalling
to mankind the birth of the first nation on earth dedicated to personal and religious liberty, a sanctuary to which men and women ·
the world over, oppressed because of religious and other beliefs,
might take refuge and enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.'
"And so also this . mighty California Masonic Memorial Temple
which we will build here high in the western skies shall symbolize and
e:xipress our most exalted aspirations. It shall match in beauty the glorious
tenets of" our Craft which are inscribed upon the hearts of our members.
May good men of Masonry gather here and grow in strength and in
numbers. Finally, may this Temple inspire them to dedicate and devote
themselves anew to the service of God, country, and humanity.
Grand Chaplain William E. McCormack pronounced the benediction.
"Praised be thou, the giver of every good and perfect gift. Praised
be thou, the inspirer of the souls of men. Praised be thou, the sustaine:,
of all them that labor. Let all the earth praise the Lord for ever. Amen.
The program was concluded by the San Francisco Municipal Band
directed by Don Frank playing "God Bless America."
0

265

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1955
Grand Lodge was called on at 9: 00 A.M., the Grand Master pre.siding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of
the morning session of Wednesday, October 26th, were read and ap..
proved.

ALEXANDER DOUGLAS POTTS HONORED
At the direction of the Grand Master the Grand Marshal presented
Worshipful Alexander Douglas Potts at the Altar, where the Grand
Master spoke words of appreciation for his service, read from the en..
" grossed resolution which had been prepared, and caused Brother Potts
to be escorted to the East where the resolution was presented to him
amid a standing ovation.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Brother Alexander Douglas Potts was appointed Inspector on January 1, 1935, and served faithfully
and well in that office until June 15, 1955, and during this
period World War II added immeasurably to his burdens as
Inspector in the Hawaiian Islands, and
WHEREAS, in addition to these duties he served during
World War II as the special representative of the Grand
Master, and has been loyal and faithful not only in the attention to his duties as Inspector but in his attendance at the
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that this
Grand Lodge express its deep appreciation to Brother Potts
for the service which he has performed, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this
Resolution be printed in the Proceedings of this Annual Communication, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that an engrossed copy
of this Resolution be presented to Brother Potts at the 106th
Annual Communication as a visible evidence of our apprecfa..
tion of his efforts and our affection for him.
HENRY C. CLAUSBN
Grand Master
Attest: LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary
October 24, 1955
Adopted.

266

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee has completed the second year of the publication
of the quarterly California Freemason. Much valuable information has
been presented and a review of the proceedings of every grand jurisdiction in the United States has been printed.
Our objective has been to produce a well written, interesting magazine filled with brief, readable articles, with as many suitable pictures
as we are able to lay our hands on.
In accordance with the legislation adopted at the last annual communication the Grand Master established the subscription price of
the quarterly at $1.00 a year.
Two editions during the fiscal year came out before subscriptions
had been solicited. All of the charter subscribers will receive two
additional issues next year and a number will be entitled to three more
issues.
At present there are about 20,000 paid subscribers. It required
a lot of promotion work to obtain this number. Subscriptions are still
arriving in encouraging numbers and the total will probably be increased
before Grand Lodge meets in October.
The cost of publishing the California Freemason during the fiscal
year ending July 31, 1955 is as follows:
(Fiscal year ending July 31, 1955)
Cost of subscription solicitation:
Printing ········-·····.-1..-...............~-- ....··--·S 4,052.06
Postage ························-·································· 1,776.11
Cost of producing the magazine:
Editorial expense, pictures, art work, tran~
portation, telephone, stenc;>graphic work,
etc. ~-··-····-······....--:-··-·-··-·$ 608.18
Printing ............................................................ 9,110.85
Cost of distribution:
Subscription clerical expense. .........................
Address plates ..................................................
Mailing ............................................................
Postage ························ ······················~·············

This expense has been met as follows:
Received for subscriptions. ............................... $20,517.00
Appropriation Grand Lodge. .. _....................._ 8,000.00
$28.517.00
Expense for year which includes two editions
prior to the accepting of subscriptions and
expense of soliciting subscriptions............ 20,857.34

Reserve to .complete commitments.................. $ 7,659.66
.T~is reserve .s~~uld be sufficient to service the paid unexpired subscr1~tions. !he initial cost of securing each of these subscriptions. involvmg clerical labor and the cost of preparing the address plates, has
been met. If the California Freemason is to prosper and succeed, more
subscriptions must be obtained and this involves some expense.
All of the editorial work has been given without compensation.
Clerical work has been paid for in modest amounts.
To produce the quarterly in its present form for the present number
of subscribers requires unit cost per subscriber per year about as follows:
Miscellaneous editorial expense.... ,................................015
Printing ...........................................................................449
Mailing costs and postage...............................................065
Cost of obtaining subscriber............................. - ...........•291
Cost of setting up each new subscriber...........................156
Some of these unit costs will decrease as the total number of subscribers increase.

$ 5,828.17

During the next fiscal year every effort will be made to make the
California Freemason self supporting. We request an appropriation
by Grand Lodge of $6,000. It may be possible to conduct a successful
operation withouf using the entire amount of the appropriation but this
successful start should not be abandoned.
NEWCOMB CoNDEE

9,719.03

HERBERT G. POLHILL
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR.

1.410.67
1.727.90
620.14
1.551.43

267

GRAHAM A. BACKUS
JOHN WULLSCHLEGE R

5,310.14
$20,857.34

ROBERT E. REEL
JOSEPH A. V1SGER, Ill

268

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Lodge Financing begs to submit a report of its
activities during the Masonic year just ending.
The record of the past year has been one of continuing and accelerating Masonic Temple building activity. Since the last communication
of this Grand Lodge, construction of fifteen new single-purpose Masonic
Lodge homes has been authorized, bringing to nearly one hundred the
number of such edifices to be erected in California since the end of
World War II. This constitutes another record of Masonic temple
buildings launched in a single year and the end is not yet in sight. Much
of the credit for the increased tempo of Masonic temple building is due
to the policy adopted by your Committee on Lodge Financing to wait
upon the brethren of Lodges contemplating building programs wherever
t}ley may be, to encourage, to enthuse and to follow through on their
b'\ilding and financing problems.
Of particular interest to Lodges in the metropolitan areas of this
jurisdiction 'h as been the construction and dedication of the Crenshaw
Masonic Temple, located in a highly developed new business section of
Los Angeles. Four Lodges, including Valley Forge No. 587, West
Adams No. 565, Composite No. 639 and Euclid No. 519 joined together
in strength and harmony to complete and furnish this beautiful new
Lodge home, conveniently located and providing ample parking. As a
result of the successful conclusion of this operation two other groups
of Lodges have banded together to incorporate master temple corporations for the purpose of building new Lodge homes, and it is expected that new temples designed to house four or more Lodges each
will soon be under construction. No d~ubt this particular type of jointventure temple building will be the answer to the problem of providing
critically needed Lodge quarters in the large cities of California. .
Your Committee on Lodge Financing is happy to report that fourteen new temple building sites have been acquired by Lodges in California during the past Masonic year, upon which new Masonic structures are scheduled to rise in the near future. land values have skyrock~ted everywhere in this jurisdiction, and one of the real problems
confronting Lodges contemplating the building of new temples is to locate sites that are convenient, adequate for the building and for parking
at a price within their means. In the cities there will be a tendency to
follow new subdivisions and to locate new Masonic temples near
churches and schools and where proper zoning may be obtained. In
this connection your Committee on Lodge Financing is happy to acknowledge the fine cooperation received from planning commissions everywhere in this great State in helping to work out zoning problems.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

269

Your Committee on Lodge Financing has this year granted consent
to eighteen Lodges to incorporate Masonic temple associations under
the non-profit laws of the State of California to h.old title to and operate
Lodge property, and a vehicle for raising funds, pursuant to Section 151
of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge. While a large majority of Lodges
in this Staie have already formed temple associations, many Lodges
have not. Your Committee believes it to be in the best interests of
Masonry for all Lodges owning and operating real property in this
jurisdiction to have the benefits and protection of a temple association.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that this Grand Lodge approve
legislation requiring all such Lodges to incorporate Masonic temple
associations.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing has assumed added duties
and responsibilities as a result of the adoption by the last communication
of the Grand Lodge of Section 78-1 of the Ordinances. While this new
regulation will impose a vast amount of new paper work on the Committee, it is the contention of the Committee that the legislation was
vitally needed and is constructive in every respect. Although the law
has been observed only casually by Lodges owning and operating Lodge
property up to this time, forms have been prepared and printed and will
be mailed to all of the organizations involved shortly after the adjournment of this Grand Lodge, and it is presumed that conformity to the new
rule will henceforth be universal. However, following the adoption of
the new Section 78.1, many Lodges and temple associations submitted
financial statements, and after receiving these documents, your Committee has been able to advise many of these organizations to improve
the business administration of the temple properties. As a result some
of them have been able to get their financial houses in order, and are
now operating in the black for the first time in many years.
An example of what can be done along this line and one worthy of
note at this time concerns a temple association operating a commercial
type building in a city in the west central part of the state. After examining the possibilities of increasing the income of the building and
with the help and advice of your Committee on Lodge Financing, the
board of directors of the temple association were able to negotiate a
percentage lease for the commercial portion of the building. and as a
result the gross rental was increased from approximately eight thousand
dollars a year to more than twenty thousand dollars a year.
Too many Masonic temple properties in California have been operated over many years in a most unrealistic manner, and in many instances have been a constant financial burden on the Lodges controlling
them. It is a great satisfaction to your Committee on Lodge Financing
to be able to report fine cooperation on the part of the representatives of
all the Lodges involved in trying to work out this phase of a most complex Lodge financing problem.

271

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In _compiling this report for the Masonic year just ending, your
Commtttee on Lodge Financin g would like to again point out that consent has been given to the construction of fifteen new Masonic temples
~ith the stipulation that no liabilities, either for labor or materials, be
incurred beyond those which can be paid for with cash on hand, and
that no collateral financing be indulged in without first obtaining written
consent from your Committee.
Of interest. to the brethren here assembled and to the gratification
of y~ur Co~mtttee on Lodge Financin g are the mortgag e-burnin g cere~
monies ~hie? _ha~e _be~n held this year by four Lodges owning new
temples in this JUnsdiction, leaving only three Lodges with any outstand ing indebtedness against newly constructed temple properties.
. Large sums of money are being spent by Lodges and temple associa!ioi:is ~o . furnish and equip newly constructed Ma.sonic temples in this
JUrtsd1ction, and although the acquisition of such furnishings and equipment has not yet resulted in any collateral financing affecting the real
property, your Committee on Lodge Financin g has no jurisdiction over
th.e ex~enditu~e of funds for these purposes. Your Committee on Lodge
Financin g believes that the expenditure of many thousand s of dollars
for such purposes creates a real threat to the financial condition of the
Lodges involved. To guard against such a danger, your Committee on
Lodge Financin g proposes to amend Section 78 of the Ordinan ces of
Grand Lodge, to read as follows:
Section 78. No Lodge, temple association, lodge trustees com~
mittee, association, partners hip or corporation, representing itself
as Masonic in characte r or operating for the benefit of a Masonic
Lodge or Lo.dges, Masonry or Masons, shall undertak e any plan,
scheme, project or method whereby :
1. Real or personal property is to be purchased, or
2. Leased for more than three years, or
3. A Masonic temple is to be erected or altered whereby the
total expendit ure will exceed the sum of $2.500
without first obtaining the written consent of the Committee on
Lodge Financin g.
Your Committee on Lodge Financin g held a tw~day meeting in San
Francisc o on Saturday and Sunday, March 19 and 20, 1955, with all
members of the Committee present. Representatives of Norwalk Lodge
No. 315, Calavera s Lodge No. 78, King David Lodge No. 209 and San
Juan Lodge No. 732 appeared before the Committee. Applications from
San Pedro Lodge No. 322, Torranc e Lodge No. 447, Van Nuys Lodge
No. 450. John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657. Moneta Lodge No. 405,
Delano Lodge No. 309 and South West Lodge No. 283 were received
and acted upon.
More applications have been presente d to your Committee on Lodge

Financin g than in any previous year. As in the past, after your Committee ·has acted upon an application, a complete file on each case, including all the details of the request, necessar y resolutions, financial
statements, comments by Committ ee members, together with a copy of
the written consent, is forwarde d to the Grand Secretar y's office, as a
part of the records of the Grand Lodge.
A resume of the activities of your Committee on Lodge Financin g
during the past year follows:
Universi ty Lodge No. 394 granted consent to purchase 458 shares of
Universi ty Masonic Temple stock and $6,500 worth of notes from Vermont Square Lodge for the total sum of $22,500. Consent granted to
Universi ty Lodge to invest $10,400 from its general funds in this financing program, and consent granted to Universi ty Masonic Temple Association to borrow not to exceed $12,500 from members of Universi ty
Lodge to be secured by promissory notes, bearing interest at the rate
of 6% per annum, in order to complete the transaction.
Willow Glen Lodge No. 676 granted consent to incorpor ate the
Willow Glen Masonic Building Association and permission was granted
to the Lodge to invest $200 from Lodge general funds in a Regular
Membership of said association.
San Pedro Lodge No. 332 and San Pedro Masonic Temple Association granted consent to purchase all of the assets of the joint-ven ture
San Pedro Masonic Temple Association owned by A.F.E. Irwin Lodge
No. 645.
Artesia Lodge No. 377 and Artesia Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to begin construction of a new Masonic temple in
•
Artesia.
Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736 granted consent to incorpor ate the
Lemon Grove Masonic Temple Association, and consent granted to
Lemon Grove Lodge to invest $1,000 from Lodge general funds in a
Regular Membership of the said association.
Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677 granted consent to invest $7,500 in
Regular Memberships of the Liberal Arts 677 Benevolent Foundati on,
and consent granted to said Foundat ion to proceed with the construction
of a new Masonic temple in Westwo od.
Belmont Shore Lodge N9. 716 granted consent to transfer $341.39
and title to personal property now held by Belmont Shore Lodge
cash
in
to the Belmont Shore Masonic Temple Association in exchang e for a
promissory note in the amount of $5,000 executed in favor of Belmont
Shore Lodge, to be repaid at the rate of $75.00 per month, including
interest at the rate of 5% per annum.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292 granted consent to invest $5,000 from
general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the Los Gatos

270

272

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Masonic Hall Corporation, the money to be used to help in the completion of the new Masonic temple in Los Gatos.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576 granted consent to invest $4,000
from the general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the
El Cajon Valley Masonic Temple Association, the money to be used for
the purpose of completing the new Masonic temple in El Cajon. .
Bellflower Lodge No. 523 granted consent to invest $5,000 from the
general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the Bellflower
Masonic Temple Association, the ·money to be used in the building of
the new Masonic temple in Bellflower.
Composite Lodge No. 639 granted consent to invest $20,000 from
general funds of the Lodge in a full share of .the Crenshaw Masonic
Temple Association, a joint venture, the money to be used to build a
new Masonic temple in the Crenshaw district of Los Angeles.
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626 granted consent to invest $15,000 from
the general funds of the 'Lodge in a Regular Membership of the Chula
Vista Masonic Temple Association, and the Chula Vista Masonic
Temple Association granted consent to proceed with the construction
of a new Masonic temple in Chula Vista.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237 granted consent to incorporate the Guadalupe Masonic Building Association and also granted consent to invest
$2,750 from general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of
the said building association.
North Hollywood Lodge No. 542 granted consent to invest $7.000
fro~ the general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the
North Hollywood Masonic Temple Association, the money to be used
to pay off the outstanding indebtedness against the temple property.
Orinda Lodge No. 704 granted consent to invest $1.000 from general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the Orinda Masonic
Building Association, and the said association was granted consent to
purchase a Masonic temple building site for a sum not to exceed $7,000.
Menorah Lodge No. 623 granted consent to incorporate the Menorah
Masonic Building Association and granted consent to invest $500 from
the general funds of the ·Lodge in a Regular Membership of the association.
Euclid Lodge No. 519 granted consent to purchase from general
funds of the Lodge a full share in the Crenshaw Masonic Temple Association, a joint venture, the money to be used in the building of a new
Masonic temple in Los Angeles.
John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657 granted consent to proceed with
the construction of a new Masonic temple in the City of San Diego.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293 granted consent to invest $4.000 from
the general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the Masonic
Temple Association of Orange, the money to be used to redeem outstanding notes issued against the temple property.

Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627 and Lamanda Park Masonic Temple
Association granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site
in Lamanda Park for a sum not to exceed $20,000 plus usual escrow
fees. etc.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397 granted consent to transfer $70,000
from the general funds of the Lodge to the Masonic Building Corporation, the money to be used in financing the purchase of the Masonic
temple building located at 6341 Pacific Boulevard in Huntington Park.
Consent also granted to the Masonic Building Corporation to purchase
the above named temple property for $133,000 cash.
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652 and the Crescenta Valley Masonic
Temple Association granted consent to borrow $10,000 from several
members of Crescenta Valley Lodge to be secured by open promissory
notes and further secured by cash pledges receivable. the money to be
used to complete and furnish the new Masonic temple in Montrose.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592 and Tujunga Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site in the City
of Tujunga for a sum not to exceed $12,000 plus usual closing fees.
Point Firmin Lodge No. 558, granted consent to purchase $2.500
worth of stock in the Point Firmin Masonic Building Corporation, the
money to be used for the purpose of repairing and modernizing the
Point Firmin Masonic temple building.
Belmont Shore Lodge No. 716 and Belmont Shore Masonic Temple Association granted consent to accept a lease by assignment from
L J. Heedwohl and Nat Frank for Lodge quarters in the City of Long
Beach. The lease covers a five year period from May l, 1954 to April
30, 1959, at a total rental of $7.500.
Indian Rock Lodge No. 638 granted consent to purchase, from a
member of the ·Lodge, two shares of stock in Thousand Oaks Masonic
Temple Associatiton at a par value of $10.00 per share.
Masonic Hall Association of Santa Maria granted consent to borrow $40,000 using the income property owned by said Hall Association
as collateral. the loan to be repaid within ten years, including interest
at 5% per annum. Masonic Hall Association granted consent to proceed with the construction of a new Masonic temple for Hesperian
Lodge in the City of Santa Maria at a cost not to exceed $155,000.
Belmont Shore Masonic Temple Association granted consent to
borrow not to exceed $15,000 from the Scottish Rite Bodies of Long
Beach to be repaid at the rate of $150 per month or more, bearing
interest at the rate of 5% per annum, and secured by a promissory note.
The money to be used to repay members of the Lodge for monies advanced by them to install a heating and ventilating system in the
Masonic temple located at 1630 East Anaheim Street, Long Beach.
Barstow Lodge No. 682 and Barstow Masonic Building Associa-

273

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion, Inc., granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site
in the City of Barstow for a sum not to exceed $6,500 plus usual escrow
fees.
Rim of the World Lodge No. 711 granted consent to incorporate
the Rim of the World Masonic Temple Association and to invest from
the general funds of the Lodge $250 in a Regular Membership of said
Association.
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579 granted consent to transfer from
general funds of the Lodge to the Masonic Hall Association of North
Sacramento the sum of $2,500, the money to be used to make the final
payment on a bank loan. As evidence of funds advanced over the past
several years by Warren G. Harding Lodge to the Masonic Hall Association of North Sacramento, said association agreed to execute a note
and deed of trust for the amount of $30,500 in favor of Warren G.
Harding Lodge, to be repaid at the rate of $200 per month or more until
paid.
Trona Lodge No. 684 and Trona Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to borrow $30,000 from the Lincoln National Life
Insurance Company, the money to be used to complete a Masonic temple building in Trona. Consent granted to Trona Maso~ic Temple Ass~­
ciation to proceed with the construction of a commercial type Masonic
temple in Trona. Approval was also given to a non-cancellable lease
negotiated with the United States Post Office for the ground floor portion of the temple building for a period of not less than fifteen years
at a monthly rental rate of $250. The $30,000 loan from the Lincoln
National Life Insurance Company bears interest at the rate of 5% per
annum, and the monthly payments of $237.24 on the loan include principal and interest.
Yount Lodge No. 12 granted consent to purchase ~ ~asonic temple building site, located in the City of Napa, an~ containing 6.7~ .acres
more or less. The :purchase price of this land 1s $31,500, requmng a
down payment of $9,135, leaving a balance of $22,365, payable $2,500
or more per year, plus interest at 4% per annum. Yount Lodge proposes
to hold title to the above property until such time as the lodge can gain
control of 100% of the stock in the Napa Masonic Hall Association, of
whiPi the Lodge now holds 80%.
Westchester Lodge No. 703 and Westchester Masonic Building
Association granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site
in the Westchester district of Los Angeles County for the sum of $16,000
plus usual escrow fees and policy of title insurance.
Rosemead Lodge No. 702 and Rosemead Masonic Building Association requested consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site in
Rosemead. Consent was granted to the expenditure. of not to exceed
$8,000 to acquire said property and for fees connected with obtaining
necessary zone variances.

Riverside Lodge No. 635 granted consent to incorporate the Riverside Masonic Building Association, and consent granted to Riverside
Lodge to in_vest $1,000 from general funds of the Lodge in a Regular
Membership of the said building association.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607 and Sojourner Masonic Temple Association granted consent to proceed with the construction of a new Masonic
temple on a three-acre site located in Duarte, California.
Willow Glen Lodge No. 676 granted consent to invest $15,000 from
the general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the Willow
Glen Masonic Building Association and the Willow Glen Masonic
Building Association granted consent to purchase a future Masonic temple building site in San Jose containing 3.125 acres for the sum of
$13,500, plus necessary closing costs.
Liberty Lodge No. 299 and the Masonic Hall Corporation of Santa
Clara granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site, for
a sum not to exceed $10,500, plus usual closing costs and title policy.
Consent also granted to the said Masonic Hall Corporation to borrow
sufficient funds, either from certain members of Liberty Lodge, or from
Liberty Lodge itself, to acquire said property, such loans to be repaid
immediately upon the sale of the Franklin street property now owned
by the Masonic Hall Corporation of Santa Clara.
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679 and Canby Cross Building Association
granted consent to borrow not to exceed $5,000 to be repaid from sale
of memberships and out of income from the newly completed temple
in Tulelake, the money to be used to install an air-conditioning system
in the temple building. The money is to be borrowed on an open note,
and will bear no interest for the first three years. If loan is not retired
within the three years, interest at the rate of 5% per annum will be
charged on any remaining balance.
Norwalk Lodge No. 315 granted consent to purchase a Masonic
temple building site in the City of Norwalk for a sum not to exceed
$15,000, plus usual escrow fees.
South West Lodge No. 283 and South West Lodge Holding Company granted consent to expend not to exceed $25,000 to repair, remodel and modernize the Masonic temple building located at Ninth
Street and National Avenue in National City.
San Pedro Lodge No. 332 and the Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to expend approximately $12,000 from temple association funds for the purpose of leveling and grading the new temple building site and otherwise readying the property for the construction of a
new Masonic temple in San Pedro.
Fullerton Lodge No. 399 and Masonic .Tem·ple Association of Fullerton granted consent to expend approximately $7,000 of temple association funds to repair, remodel and repaint the Masonic temple building
in Fullerton.

•

275

276

277

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

All States Lodge No. 593 granted consent to incorporate the All
States Masonic Temple Association and to invest $1,000 from Lodge
general funds in a Regular Membership of said association.
Calaveras Lodge No. 78 granted consent to expend $12,000 from
the general funds of the Lodge to rehabilitate the temple property jointly
owned by Calaveras Lodge and Odd Fellows Lodge in San Andreas,
subject to the following provision: That Calaveras Lodge advance
$6,000 as the Odd Fellows Lodge's share of the cost to complete the
work and accept a promissory note in the amount of $6,000 from the
Odd Fellows Lodge to be repaid by said Odd Fellows Lodge at .the
rate of $37.50 per month or more, including interest at the rate of 3%
per annum. Said note to be secured by a recorded first deed of trust
on the Odd Fellows Lodge's undivided one-half interest in the temple
property, said deed of trust to provide for the assignment of rents by
Odd Fellows Lodge to assure payments on said note.
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511 and Sunnyvale Masonic Temple Associ~
tion granted consent to expend approximately $17,000 from association
funds for the purpose of acquiring a Masonic temple building site in
Sunnyvale.
Torrance Lodge No. 447 and Torrance Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to proceed with the construction of a new Masonic
Temple in Torrance.
·
Masonic Temple Association granted consent to pure'hase Lots 3
and 11, Block 1071 of Vallejo Central Homestead Association tract for
the sum of $20,000 plus closing fees, subject to proper zoning for Masonic temple building purposes. Consent also granted to the said association to purchase Lots 1, 2, 9 and l 0 of the same Block and Tract,
which were purchased in 1953 without approval of the Committee on
Lodge Financing, in order to clear the record.
Blue Lakes Lodge No. 714 granted consent to incorporate the San
Bruno Masonic Temple Association and to invest $250 from Lodge
general funds in a Regular Membership of said association.
Norwalk Lodge No. 315 granted consent to incorporate the Norwalk
Masonic Building Association, and consent granted to Norwalk Lodge
to transfer title to its Masonic temple building site to the said association in exchange for a Regular Membership in that amount.
Delano Lodge No. 309 and Delano Masonic Temple Association's
request to cancel Committee on Lodge Financing written permission to
borrow $35,000 for the purpose of rehabilitating the Masonic temple
property in Delano, granted.
.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607 granted consent to invest $4,000 from
Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership of the Sojourner Masonic
Temple Association, the money to be used for the purpose of acquiring
needed furnishings for the new temple being constructed in Duarte.

Sequoia Lodge No. 349 granted consent to expend $250 from Lodge
general funds for the purpose of acquiring stock in the Berkeley Masonic
Temple Association now held by individuals.
Russian River Lodge No. 181 granted consent to incorporate the
Russian River Masonic Temple Association and to invest $500 from
Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership of the said association.
Consent also granted to Russian River Lodge to transfer title to a
Masonic temple building site in exchange for a Regular Membership
in the Association in the amount of $21,500, book value of the property.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592 and the Tujunga Masonic Temple Association granted consent to begin construction of a new Masonic temple in
Tujunga.
Downey Lodge No. 220 requested approval of amendments to the
By-Laws of the Square and Compass Building Association of Downey.
Such amendments, including a provision vesting control of the association in Downey Lodge, were approved.
Marin Lodge No. 191 and Marin Masonic Building Association
granted consent to expend not to exceed $3,500 to repair and repaint
portions of the Masonic temple building in San Rafael.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492 granted consent to incorporate the Garvanza Masonic Building Association and to invest $200 in a Regular
Membership of said Association.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38 granted consent to expend not to exceed
$29,000 plus closing costs, escrow fees and other land acquisition expenses. to purchase a future Masonic temple building site, title to the
said property to,be vested in the Santa Cruz Masonic Temple Foundation. Santa Cruz Masonic Temple Foundation granted consent to issue
one Regular Membership to Santa Cruz Lodge for $29,000, the amount
represented by the total cost of the property. Santa Cruz Lodge granted
consent to accept proceeds from the sale of property situated at the corner of Pacific Avenue and Cathcart and to deposit such proceeds in the
general funds of the Lodge.
Elysian Lodge No. 418 granted consent to organize the Elysian
Masonic Building Association under the non-profit laws of the State of
California and consent granted to the transfer from the Lodge to t'he
temple association title to all real and personal property owned by the
Lodge in exchange for the Voting. Stock in the said Association.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 granted consent to invest an additional
$4,000 from the general funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership
of the Monte Vista Masonic Temple Association, the money to be used
in the construction of the new Masonic Temple in North Long Beach.
Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660 granted consent to incorporate the
Baldwin Park Masonic Building Association and to invest $500 from
Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership of the said Association.

278

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Burlingame Masonic Hall Association granted consent to borrow
not to exceed $10,000 on an unsecured note. Consent granted to the
said Association to expend not to exceed $15,000 for the purpose of
installing an elevator in the Masonic temple building in Burlingame.
Fort Crook Lodge No. 575 granted consent to invest $4,000 from
Lodge general funds in a regular Members'bip of the Fort Crook Masonic Building Association, the money to be used to complete the new
Masonic temple in Fall River Mills.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38 granted consent to invest $40,000 from
Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership of the Santa Cruz Masonic Temple Foundation. Consent granted to the said temple foundation to expend not more than $10,000 to employ an architect, have a
line and elevation survey made and.. to prepare the ground site preliminary to building a new Masonic temple in Santa Cruz, with any balance
to be ·held for future approval.
John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657 granted consent to invest $10,000
from Lodge funds in a Regular Membership of the John D. Spreckels
Masonic Temple Association, and the said temple association granted
consent to make certain specified changes in the plans of the new Masonic temple in San Diego.
Torrance Lodge No. 447 and Torrance Masonic Temple Association granted consent to make certain changes in the plans and specifications of the new temple building, adding 465 square feet to the dimensions of the Lodge room, the cost of the work not to exceed $5,000.
Anacapa Lodge No. 710 granted consent to incorporate the Anacapa
Masonic Building Association and to invest $500 from Lodge general
funds in a Regular Membership of the Association.
Magnolia Park Lodge granted consent to incorporate the Magnolia
Park Masonic Building Association and to invest $250 of the general
funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the said Association.
Russian River Lodge No. 181 granted consent to transfer $500 cash,
plus title to real property, value $20,000, and title to personal property
worth $1,500 to the Russian River Masonic Building Association in exchange for a Regular Membership in said buildfng association in the
amount of $22,500. Consent granted to the Russian River Masonic
Building Association to borrow not to exceed $8,000, to be repaid in
installments of $100 or more per month, including interest at the rate
of 5% per annum. Russian River Masonic Building Association granted
consent to proceed with the construction of a new Masonic temple for
Russian River Lodge, in the town of Windsor.
Redwood Empire Lodge No. 683 granted consent to incorporate the
Redwood Empire Masonic Building Association. Consent granted to
Redwood Empire Lodge to transfer title to all real estate now held by
the Lodge as well as $3,423.20 deposited as a building fund to the said
building association in exchange for all of the Voting Memberships in

the association. Consent also granted to the Redwood Empire Masonic
Building Association to construct a new Masonic temple for Redwood
Empire Lodge.
Hesperian Lodge No. 264 granted consent to loan to the Santa
Maria Masonic Hall Association a sum not to exceed $25,000, to be
secured by good and sufficient promissory notes, bearing no interest,
but to be repaid within the period of ten years. It is understood the
money is to be used to furnish and equip the new Masonic temple in
Santa Maria.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 granted consent to invest $4,000 from general funds of the Lodge in Class A stock of the Masonic Temple Association of Fruitvale.
Alta Loma Lodge No. 643 granted consent to enter into a five-year
lease for Lodge quarters situated at Orange Avenue and Burnett Street,
in the City of Long Beach, at a rental rate of $150 per month.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376 granted consent to invest $10,000
from the general funds of the Lodge in Regular Memberships of the
Francis Drake Masonic Temple Association, the money to be used for
the purpose of paying off the outstanding indebtedness against the temple property in South San Francisco.
Reseda Lodge No. 666 and the Reseda Masonic Building Association granted consent to borrow $3,000, secured by a promissory note
issued by the said building association, to be repaid within a period of
not to exceed six months, and bearing interest at the rate of 5% per
annum. Reseda Masonic Building Association granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site in Reseda for a sum not to exceed
$13,800.
.
Moneta Lodge No. 405 granted consent to incorporate the Moneta
Masonic Temple Association under the non-profit laws of the State of
California and to invest $10,000 from the general funds of the Lodge in
a Regular or Voting Membership of the said temple association.
Atwater Lodge No. 622 and the Atwater Masonic Temple Association granted consent to begin construction of a new Masonic temple in
the City of Los Angeles.
San Juan Lodge No. 732 granted consent to incorporate the San
Juan Masonic Building Association and to invest $100 from the general
funds of the Lodge in a Regular Membership of the said building association.
Pasadena Masonic Temple Association granted consent to negotiate
a loan from the Scottish Rite Bodies of Pasadena in the amount of
$30,000 to be secured by a promissory note, to be repaid within a period
of 8.fteen years, and bearing interest at the rate of 3% per annum. Consent was also granted to the said temple association to purchase a piece
of real property adjoining the present temple property in Pasadena, for

279

280

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

a sum not to exceed $25,000 and to expend not more than $5,000 to
clear and pave the .property for use as a parking lot.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322 and the Alhambra Masonic Temple Association granted consent to proceed with the construction of a new Masonic temple in Alhambra.
Oroville Lodge No. 103 granted consent to expend not to exceed
$10,000 from the general funds of the Lodge for the purpose of refurbishing the temple property in Oroville preparatory to its centennial
celebration next year.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing recommends that an appropriation of $1.800 be made to cover necessary expenses of the Committee
for the ensuing Masonic year.
Your Committee would again like to acknowledge the wonderful
cooperation received from the Grand Secretary and his efficient office
staff. Their assistance and wise counsel has made it possible for the
Committee to function as well as it did. Appreciation is also expressed
to the Most Worshipful Grand Master for his help and for the recognition he has always freely given the Committee for the work being
accomplished.
In your Committee's contact with the various Lodges we have had
the wholehearted cooperation of the officers and members of committees.
The Committee continues to receive the finest cooperation from Masonic
inspectors everywhere. These dedicated men practice the precept of who
best can work and best agree, and this Committee is grateful for their
continued and highly valued assistance and advice.
Before concluding this report, I would like to express my thanks
and appreciation to each and every member of this Committee for their
full support and assistance during the past Masonic year. In every
assignment of an application for investigation and report, their response
has been generous and prompt. and each has contributed his full share
in the accomplishment of the task committed to us by the Ordinances
of this Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD

J. BLICKPBLDT

E. HERBERT PHILLIPS
WALTER PYBON
DARRELL R. PURCELL
MARK A. GREEN
GLEN

c. HOLBERT

HAROLD N. RICHARDS
ROBERT E. FITES
LoWELL M. AYRES

281

REPORT OF
COMMISSION ON REVISION OF ROSS DIGEST
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Commission on Revision of Ross Digest reports as follows:
Shortly after the beginning of the year the Commission was reorganized, and a reassessment was made of the work done in the past
and the problems before us. We discovered that the Ross Digest was
prepared because it was difficult to find the law. There had been Masonic lawbooks before the Ross Digest. such as Anderson's and Mackey's, but changes were made and rulings were handed down from year
to year and the books became out of date. Then came the Ross Digest,
which represented a tremendous amount of work by Past Grand Master
Ross, but, as you are all aware, that valuable work, too, became out of
date because of the steady growth in size.
PROBLEM

We also found that the principal complaints about the Digest were
that the index was not satisfactory and it was too difficult to locate a
given decision, and that there was too much to read because the edict,
when found, was usually much longer than necessary. Your Commission
has sought to remedy these objections and to produce a book that can
be kept up to date without too much difficulty.
SOLUTIONS

\

After considering and evaluating difrerent systems, your Commission
determined that the most practical solution was to adopt what might be
termed an annotaled Constitution and Ordinances. The main difference
between that type of book and our present Digest may be explained as
follows: In the first part of the present book we have the Constitution
and Ordinances which deal with various topics, and then in the second
part we have the decisions and resolutions .dealing with the same topics,
so that the reader usually must look in several places to find the answer
he seeks. In addition, in most instances, the decisions set out in full
the language of the Grand Master and the report of the committee, with
the result that there is a great deal of repetition and usually a recital of
a number of unnecessary facts. In the proposed book, each section of
the Constitution and Ordinances will appear in full as it does now,
but it will be followed immediately by annotations which will consist
of paragraphs giving in abbreviated form the gist of the various decisions
which relate to that section. For example, section 208 of the Ordinances
now sets forth the moral and physical qualifications for an applicant
for the degrees of Masonry. and the decisions relating to this section
are in several places toward the back of the book, but mainly under
the headings of Investigating Committee, Objection and Qualification
for Degrees. In the proposed book. section 208 would be followed im-

282

283

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

mediately by brief paragraphs setting forth the substance of the decisions
·
in point.
undertaking
not
is
It should be emphasized that your Commission
or intending to make any change in the law. As noted above the exact
language of the Constitution and Ordinances will be retained. The
Edicts or Decisions will be shortened, but the revision will not indicate
or constitute any change in the law. In case of any conflict or discrepancy, the law as it appears in the official proceedings will, of course,
govern.

ne'\V sections may easily be inserted near other related provisions. In
this connection, the Commission proposes to split up a few sections
which, unfortunately, contain legislation on more than one subject. For
example, in section 127, the Brst paragraph refers to a Lodge engaging
in a commercial venture and the second paragraph relates to advertising
in Masonic publications. Likewise section 133 sets forth the uniform
Code of By-Laws, which contain 13 articles and numerous sections
dealing with unrelated matters. The judicious use of additional section
numbers in situations of this type will make it easier for the index to
direct the reader to the exact location of a particular provision. It
will also be possible for the annotations to be placed immediately after
the provisions they construe.
As noted above, the sections of the Constitution and Ordinances will
carry numbers, but it is planned to use letters to identify the annotations.
This will make it easy to distinguish between the decisions, which can
be changed by simple majority vote, and the Constitution and Ordinances, which require a five-sixths vote unless the matter is held over to
the following communication. Under this system, a reference in the
index to 55-g will mean that the point is to be found in annotation g
under section 55.
4. Correlation Table. Another proposal is the addition of a correlation table to show the reader at a glance exactly where a given section of the Digest may be found in the new Code.

NAME

Since the new book will not be a digest, but rather an annotated code
of laws and decisions, your Commission proposes that it be called
"CALIFORNIA MASONIC CODE ANNOTATED" which, in practice, can be shortened to "California Masonic Code" or even "the Code."
In citations it can be referred to simply as "C.M.C." This new name will
not only be more descriptive of the book, but will avoid any confusion
as to whether a given reference is to the present Ross Digest or to the
new Code.
Your Commission also proposes several other changes which will
make .the book more valuable and easier to use.
1. Cross-references. The present volume now carries a string of
numbers after each section, without stating the purpose of those numbers. In the new book, the reader will be directed to the places where he
can find related matters by cross-references which will indicate the
subject-matter of the related sections.
2. Index. The Digest has been criticized a great deal because of
the lack of a more comprehensive index. Your Commission plans to
have a greatly amplified index which should make it much easier for
the brethren to locate a desired subject. The index, as planned, will
not only give the section involved but, so far as possible, will also be
keyed to the particular annotation paragraphs, if there have been decisions on the point,
3. Numbering. In the Digest, as you know, the Constitution and
Ordinances are numbered from 1 to 353, and the Decisions are numbered
from 401 to 1046. In both cases, the numbering is without gaps, except
for one or two instances where there have been repeals, with the result
that, when it was found desirable to enact new legislation, it was necessary either to add to an existing section, which might make that section
unduly long, or to use some method of designating the new section such
as 53-A, or 53!/i or 53.1. There is a limit, however, to the extent to which
such devices may be satisfactorily employed. The same problem was
encountered in adding new decisions and resolutions. Accordingly,
your Commission proposes to renumber the sections of the Constitution
and Ordinances and to leave frequent gaps in the numbering so that

5. Type. In the Digest, the decisions are printed in a fair sized
fype, but the Constitution and Ordinances which form the basic law
appear in type which is smaller than ordinary newspaper print. Accordingly, your Commission proposes the adoption of larger, more
legible type faces.
6. ·Pocket Parts. For the purpose of keeping the Code up to date,
your Commission proposes the use of pocket parts similar to those used
in connection with codes and other lawbooks. The Digest now has a
pocket in the back cover, and a similar pocket can be placed in the back
of the Code. At the conclusion of each Communication the changes in
legislation can be collected and printed in the form of a pamphlet which
may be attached to the pocket and can be cumulated from year to year.
Each pamphlet will carry its own index and list of changes which will be
keyed to the Code. All that a reader will have to do, in order to make
certain that he has the latest rulings, is to look in the index of the Code
and then in the latest pocket supplement. Under this system, it should
be unnecessary to print a new edition of the Code oftener than every
5 or 10 years.
Progress Report. Your Commission now has a preliminary rough
draft of most of the new Code, but a great deal of revision, polishing,
checking and rechecking will be necessary in order to avoid errors and

284

. PROCEEDINGS OF THI!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

present a satisfactory book. T·here will also be a great deal of work to
be done in connection with the preparation of the tables and .index.
These jobs will take several months, and it is difficult to set a time
schedule, but your Commission believes that, if the publication is authorized at this Communication, complete copy for the volume can be furnished to the printer before the middle of this coming year of 1956.

EXHIBIT A

RECOMMENDATIONS

1. The policy of revising Ross Digest was adopted in 1953, and
your Commission recommends that this Grand Lodge authorize the
publication of the California Masonic Code as described in this report
upon approval thereof by the Grand Master, the Judge Advocate and
the Chairman of the Jurisprudence Committee.
2. Your Commission has discovered a number of inconsistencies
and contradictions which should be eliminated before the new Code
is published. For example, in about 30 instances, we have found that
there are sections· or portions of sections in the Decisions and Edicts
that apparently were never adopted or approved by this Grand Lodge.
In other cases, it appears that rulings should be rescinded or amended
because they conflict with later decisions and amendments. A list of
these matters is attached to this report as "Exhibit A" and your Commission recommends that they be submitted to the Jurisprudence Committees for action at this Communication.
3. In order to keep the Code up to date, · there should be a permanent Code Commission charged with the duty of collecting all changes
in law made at each Communication and of preparing the material
for publication. Your Commission therefore recommends the adoption
of legislation establishing such a Code Commission. A resolution containing the changes in law to accomplish this purpose is attached to
this report as "Exhibit B."
4. The completion of the revision and the preparation of the material in proper form for the printer will require a great deal of stenographic assistance, and there will also be some expense for travel and
materials. Your Commission therefore recommends that the sum of
$1200 be appropriated for the use of the Commission · to cover these
expenses.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. NANKERVIS, JR.
J. EvERETI HousER
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN

Referred to Committees on Finance, Policy and General Purposes
and Jurisprudence.

285

QUESTIONS TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
JURISPRUDENCE COMMITTEE
1. A number of Ross Digest sections set forth decisions or rulings
that apparently have never been enacted into law. Should any of the
following sections or parts thereof be adopted as ordinances?
R.D. 840 (1st par.)
R.D. 671
R.D. 429
~4
672
4~
870
675
488
889
713
498 (seeitem6)
936
714
536
937
715
551
951
720
627
1019 (lstpar.)
727 (lstpar.)
650 (seeitem3)
1045 (see item 8)
781
650( a)
1046
792
670
2. In view of the adoption of a ceremony for dedication of public
school buildings, (Proc. 1953, p. 320), should section 480 be repealed?
3. Should there be an express adoption of the Ancient Landmarks as
set out in the }.ppendix to Ross Digest and accepted in this jurisdiction
for many years? Should section 650 be enacted as an ordinance or in
connection with the Ancient Landmarks?
4. Should sections 418 and 419 regarding "healing" be construed as
impliedly repealing part of section 796 and should the inconsistent part
of section ·796 be rescinded?
5. Should the• prohibition against smoking during the conferring of
degrees, now found in section 785, be extended to all meetings? Should
it forbid any smoking in the lodge room?
6. Should we adopt the 1927 resolution relating to reception of the
flag? (See Proc. 1927, pp. 473, 592: see also Monitor, p. 53.)
7. Section 452, by implication, requires the organist to be a member
of the Lodge. Should this section be rescinded insofar as it is inconsistent
with section 1 of article ll of the By-laws?
8. Should we add to section 172 the portion of section 1045 relating
to the private examination of a person applying for Masonic charity?
9. An Entered Apprentice or- Fellow Craft may now be given a
demit. Should we repeal the portion of section 518 which states to the
ocntrary7 (See sections 173, 176, 178.1.)
10. Should we repeal section 494 ( b) in the light of the 1954 Decision
14 (Proc. 1954, pp. 81, 264) relating to the application of question 13
.
to social clubs?
11. Should section 11 7 be clarified by changing the words "seven
members" to "seven of its members"?

287

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

12. Sections 749 and 750 appear out of line with present Grand
Lodge thinking on the commercialization of Masonry. Should they be
repealed?
13. A number of forms contain the word " (Seal)" to indicate that
the lodge seal should be affixed. Should the word " (Seal)" be added
in the following sections?
297
318 (Master's certificate)
328 (Master's certificate)
300
323
334 (form 3)
309
326 (add signature line)
14. It is not clear whether section 302 applies to a Trial Master.
Should we strike out the words "of the Lodge" at the start of the section
or should the first part of the section read: "The Master of the Lodge or
Trial Master has a right," etc.?
15. Should section 308 relating to service of summons be clarified?
The reference to "service" is ambiguous and apparently includes both
personal service and mailing, without any requirement of inability to
locate the accused as justification for service by merely leaving the summons "at his ordinary residence or place of business." If the accused is
in the state. service is com·plete on deposit in the mail. but query if the
same rule applies to service by mail out of the state.
16. The paragraph headed "Form of Transcript" which follows section 327 appears to be in the form of an explanatory note, but all except
the last sentence ("The following may be a form for such certificates")
could well be enacted as an ordinance. Should it be so adopted?
17. In view of section 330, should section 202 recite that it is the
Secretary's duty to serve the summons and prepare the recorq of a trial?
18. The word "then" at the start of section 303 is ambiguous, but it
apparently refers to the election of commissioners. (See ·placement of the
section prior to adoption of Ross Digest.) Should this section commence:
"Immediately after the election of commissioners the Master will name
the time ..•. " etc.?

pare for publication the annual changes in our laws and to submit to
Grand Lodge from time to time any revisions as to form which may seem
necessary or desirable."
2. That Section 68 Ross Digest be amended by adding after the
words "and By-Laws committees" the words "and Code Commission."
Referred to Committees on Finance, on Jurisprudence and on Policy
and General Purposes.

286

EXHIBIT B

Whereas, it is important to everyone concerned with Masonic law
to have the annual changes, amendments and new sections promptly
analyzed, classified and made available by a permanent commission set
up for the purpose,
Now therefore, BE IT RESOLVED:
1. That a new section be added to Ross Digest following Sec. 78.2
to read as follows:
"Sec. 78.3 A code Commission consisting of five members shall be
appointed by the newly installed Grand Master at each Annual Communication for a term ending at the close of the next suceceding Annual
Communication. It shall be the duty of the Commission to edit and pre-

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO STUDY
SECTION 210 OF THE ORDINANCES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In appointing your Committee the Grand Master charged it with
the duty of studying Section 210 of the Ordinances for the purpose of
determining what changes, if any, should be recommended to this Grand
Lodge. To understand the problems involved and the approach of your
Committee to those problems, we feel that a summary of the history of
this Section and a resume of the events which prompted the Grand
Master to order this study, will be helpful.
This Section deals with the eligibility of those engaged in the liquor
purveying business for membership in the constituent lodges. It was
enacted in its present form in 1912. Over the years several proposals
have been made for its revision. Their scope has ranged from measures
of a clarifying nature to those aimed at outright repeal of the Section.
Advocates of these changes have been men of sincerity and unquestioned devotion to the highest principals of the craft. Some have been
men of great prestige among us. None the less the Section stands today
as it was originally enacted forty-three years ago.
At the 1953 communication, a resolution was offered which had for
its purpose the outright repeal of the Section. The resolution was withdrawn by its sponsor with the permission of the Grand Master.
In 1954 a resolution was proposed to amend the Section by deleting
therefrom certain absolute prohibitions against membership. In reporting upon this Amendment the Jurisprudence Committee recommended to
the Grand Master that a special committee be appointed to undertake
a study of the problems involved and to submit proposed legislation to
this Grand Lodge. The original resolution was thereupon withdrawn
with permission of the Grand Master.
The work of the Committee has been directed along two lines. Our
first effort was to determine whether consideration should be given to
framing legislation involving a radical change in the basic principals
of the section as presently written.
Secondly, it was our purpose to examine the Section from the stand1point of the need for clarification.
Pursuing the first line of inquiry, your Committee directed its attention to the 1953 and 1954 proposals. An analysis of these resolutions
made it clear that their passage would have worked a fundamental

288

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

change into the framework of our law. That such was the intent of
the sponsors of these measures was confirmed in the course of our discussions with them.
The Committee undertook to present this point of view to a cross
section of the members of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of ascertaining their reaction thereto. The Committee found that an overwhelming majority were against the adoption of this new philosophy and favored the retentioh of the section in its present form, including the specific prohibitions therein set forth.
As a result of this analysis and survey, it is the considered judgment of this Committee that the best interests of the fraternity would
not be served in departing from the basic concepts of the section as it
now stands.
Addressing itself to the problem of clarification, your Committee
has found that there is no substantial accord on what is needed, if anything. Undoubtedly some confusion does exist in the minds of some
Masters who are called upon to make decisions involving the problem
dealt with in this section. However, it is our belief that no small part of
this uncertainty has developed out of Sections 887 and 887a. These
Sections embody decisions of Grand Masters confronted with particular factual situations in an era when the administration of State Liquor
Laws was a mockery. It is the understanding of your Committee that a
new constitutional amendment of the State of California dealing with
t'he liquor problem will be submitted to the electorate of this State in
November of 1956.
We believe that, if adopted, this amendment and the enabling act
of the State Legislature passed at its last session will eliminate the uncertainties dealt with in Sections 887 ad 887a. It is therefore the opinion
of this Committee that no steps should be taken towards clarifying the
·
latter sections at this time.
In conclusion, the Committee wishes to express its sincere thanks
to the scores of members of this Grand Lodge, including Past Grand
Masters and present officers, who have so willingly cooperated with
the Committee in the course of its work.
Respectfully submitted,
JoSEPH R. EDMISTON,
CLAIRE.

w. WILSON, ]R.

289

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been ref erred to your Committee on Grievances since the
1954 Communication of Grand Lodge a total of 70 trial records.
This report to Grand Lodge by your Committee will deal with 40
of those records. Seven applications for restoration will be dealt with in
one report. The remaining 23 records will be the subject of separate
reports because of the fact that each of them involves an appeal, a petition for restoration, or some other situation which, in the opinion of your
Committee, requires them to be separately considered.
We have proposed an amendment of Section 331 of our Ordinances
which will eliminate the necessity of trial in a California Lodge of a
member of a California Lodge who has been tried and suspended or
expelled by another Masonic jurisdiction, recognized by us: such amendment, however, providing for a review of the trial proceedings of such
other Masonic jurisdiction, and, after such review, action by the Grand
Lodge of California. We believe that this proposal, if adopted, will preserve to such Mason all his Masonic rights without the burden of a
retrial by his Lodge in California. In each such case the California
Mason shall have been accorded a trial in the other Masonic jurisdiction, and it would seem that a second trial by his Lodge in California
would not be necessary to preserve his rights, as the Grand Lodge of
California will retain full jurisdiction to confirm or disapprove of the
edict of the Grand Lodge of the sister jurisdiction. Just as citizens of
California, while actually within the boundaries of another state, are
subject to the penal laws of such state and may be tried therein for a
violation thereof, so it is entirely proper that California Masons should
be subjected to the Masonic laws and the trial process of another Masonic jurisdiction, while sojourning therein; and in neither case would
it seem that the person so tried should be entitled to a second trial in
California for the same misconduct.
We direct attention of representatives of the Lodges to the provision
of Section 335 of our Ordinances, as amended, that should the penalty
of reprimand be fixed in any case, the reprimand shall not be administered until Grand Lodge shall have affirmed the result of the trial. In
such a case if the reprimand shall have been administered before approval by Grand Lodge, and if Grand ·Lodge should determine either
that the conviction was improper, or that a penalty other than reprimand
be infticted, the brother may suffer double penalty or may suffer a penalty which he has not deserved.
Brother Al Breslauer, at the request of this Committee, has prepared
a form of Petition for Restoration. We approve of the form and a
supply thereof will be in the hands of the Grand Secretary for the use

290

291

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

of those former brethren who may desire to make application for restoration.
Brother Breslauer has also prepared for distribution a trial outline
of which we approve and which we believe will be valuable for the guid- .
ance of Masters and Trial Masters.
Your committee is offering resolutions to amend Sections 295 and
299 of our ordinances which will authorize the election of trial commissioners at a stated meeting of the Lodge. and the nomination of brethren
for election as trial commissioners. We believe that these proposals will
result in a great saving in time for the lodges.
Your Committee will recommend to Grand Lodge the affirmance of
the result reflected in the file of each of the following trial records:
No. 1314-(Retrial.) A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled February 7, 1955.
No. 1319-(Retrial.) A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expelled
September 6. 1955.
No. HM-A member of Vista Lodge No. 687. Expelled October 5,
1954.
No. HI 7-A member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. Expelled August 5,
1954.
No. H18-A member of Durant Lodge No. 268. Expelled October 6,
1954.
No. Hl9-A member of Center Lodge No. 465. Expelled November
3. 1954.
No. I 420-A member of Lakeshore Lodge No. 551. Suspended November 3, 1954.
·
No. H21-A member of San Mateo Lodge No. 226. Expelled November 3, 1954.
No. 1422-A member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166. Expelled December
1. 1954.
No. 1424-A member of All States Lodge No. 593. Expelled November 1. 1954.
No. I 425-A member of Compass Lodge No. 590. Expelled December
3. 1954.
No. I 426-A member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382. Expelled
December 2, 1954.
No. I 427-A member of Orinda Lodge No. 704. Expelled December
7, 1954.
No. I 428-A member of Mountain View Lodge No. 194. Acquitted
November 2, 1954.
No. I 429-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled December 6, 1954.
No. 1430-A member of Los Cer~itos Lodge No. 674. Expelled October 4, 1954.

No. 1432-A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Expelled November 4,
1954.
No. H34-A member of Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482. Acquitted
February 4, 1955.
.
No. 1437-(Retrial of No. 13H.)
No. I 438-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Suspended
January 6, 1955.
No. H39-A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351. Expelled February
7, 1955.
No. 1HO-A me~ber of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Suspended
March 1, 1955.
No. IHI-A member of Durant Lodge No. 268. Expelled December
1. 1954.
No. H43-A member of McKinley Lodge No. 347. Ex.pelled March
3, 1955.
No. I H6-A member of Plymouth Lodge No. 560. Suspended April
7, 1955.
No. 1H7-A member of Florence Lodge No. 649. Acquitted April 7,
1955.
No. 1H9-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled April I,
1955.
No. I 450-A member of Doric Lodge No. 216. Expelled April 4, 1955.
No. H51-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled May 5,
1955.
No. 1452-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled May 6,
1955.
No. H53-A·member of Hesperian Lodge No. 264. Acquitted June 2,
1955.
No. I 454-A member of Gardena Lodge No. 372. Expelled June 7,
1955.
No. I 455-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Suspended June I,
1955.
No. I 458-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled July I,
1955.
No. 1459-A member of James A. Foshay Lodge No. 641. Suspended
July 11. 1955.
No. I 460-A member of Plumas Lodge No. 60. Ex·pelled May 9, 1955.
No. H61-A member of Victorville Lodge No. 634. Acquitted July 6,
1955.
No. I 463-A member of Lynwood Lodge No. 600. Suspended August
1, 1955.
No. 1466-A member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625. Expelled Sep. tember 6, 1955.
No. H67-A member of Forbestown Lodge No. 50. Suspended September 3, 1955.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

292

293

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 1468-A member of San Ramon Valley Lodge No. 724. Expelled
September 12, 1955.
Your Committee bas carefully reviewed the record in each of the
foregoing matters, and finds therein no errors of a character which may
have resulted in a miscarriage of justice.
In each of them there has been a substantial compliance with the
procedural requirements of our Constitution and Ordinances. In all
cases of automatic expulsion reported therein, the requirements of Section 332 have been substantially followed. In each of the matters in
which a trial has been bad, the result is supported by sufficient evidence
in the record, and in those cases in which the penalty was fixed at reprimand, suspension or expulsion, we believe that the .findings of Guilty
are adequately supported by the evidence, and that the penalties imposed
are in reasonable accord with the character of the offenses committed.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED that in each of the foregoing enumerated trial records
the action of the Lodge in cases of automatic expulsion, and the findings
- and ·determination of the Trial Commission, and the penalty imposed,
be and the same are ratified, affirmed and approved.
Adopted.

RESTORAT IONS
Your Committee to Which was referred the several applications of
former members of California Lodges for restoration to the rights and
privileges of Masonry, by tlds report departs from the usual tradition
of reporting separately on each application. We hope thereby to conserve the time of Grand Lodge by including in a single report our recommendation that Grand Lodge act favorably upon those applications
for restoration hereinafter listed. In each of these cases our examination
of the showing made by the applicant leads us to believe that such applicant is worthy of restoration and has satisfactorily complied with
the requirements of our Grand Lodge·for restoration.
We, therefore, present the following resolution which, if adopted,
will restore each of the applicants to the rights and privileges of Masonry:
RESOLVED, That
R. C., formerly a member of Menorah Lodge No. 623, Trial Record
No. 991
W. G. H., formerly a member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349, Trial
Record No. 1007
J. N. S., formerly a member of Menorah Lodge No. 623, Trial Record No.1040
R. P. R., formerly a member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397, Trial
Record No. 1273

T. L.B., formerly a member of Yount Lodge No. 12, Trial Record
No. 1318
A. C. F., formerly a member of Burbank Lodge No. 406, Trial Record No.1354.
R. W. R., formerly a member of Southgate Lodge No. 320, Trial
Record No. 1374.
be and each of them is hereby restored to the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
Adopted.
JoE L. SHELL
ALBERT F. Ross
ALFRED E. BRESLAUER
RALPH E. HoYT
RALPH K. PIERSON
WILLIAM B. NEELEY
BYRON C. MORTON

ADDITIONA L TRIAL RECORDS
To the Mo$t Worshipful Grand Lodge of California;
Your Committee on Grievances, believing the publication of certain
of the reports of this Committee to the Grand Lodge of California would
not be for the best interests of Masonry, presents the following resolution:
"RESOLVED that the reports of the Grievance Committee
to this Grand Lodge upon Trial Records Numbers 1383, 1423,
1444, 1456 and 1464 shall not be published in the prfuted Proceedings of the 1955 Communication of this Grand Lodge."
No. 1383-(Retria l) A member of Golden Gate L.odge No. 30. Ladge
relieved of mandate for member's retrial.
No. 1423-A member of Mount Olive ·Lodge No. 506. Finding of guilty
reaffirmed. Penalty changed to expulsion.
No. 1444-A member of Alameda Lodge No. 167. Finding of guilty
reaffirmed. Penalty changed to expulsion.
No. 1456---A member of Sincerity Lodge No. 132. Findings of Trial
Commissioners vacated and matter remanded for further
proceedings.
No. 1464-A member of Glassell Park Lodge No. 605. Findings of
Trial Commissioners reversed and matter remanded for retrial.
Adopted.

294

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Trial Record No. 1043
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
of S. G. for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, reports
as follows:
fo 1944 Petitioner, a pharmacist, was expelled from Union Lodge
No. 58 for selling narcotics without a doctot's prescription on three
separate occasions, in violation of the narcotic law.
Petitioner has previously filed several petitions for restoration, each
of which was denied because of an insufficient showing of rehabilitation.
This petition is not accompanied by any letters of recommendation,
there is no showing of rehabilitation and Union Lodge has recommend.ed that this petition be denied.
Your Committee therefore offers the following. resolution:
RESOLVED, That the petition of S. G. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby denied.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1269
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is a petition for restoration. Accused, A. M. H., formerly a
member of James Madison Lodge No. 572, was expelled and the expulsion was approved by this Grand Lodge in 1953.
·
There is no doubt that the accused had falsified his petition for the
degrees as to residence to conceal the fact that he had been in a penal
institution and also that he was convicted of a crime after becoming a
Mason. These were the charges on which he was expelled.
The petition for restoration is accompanied by several letters of
recommendation. There is no proof that. his former Lodge was given
notice as required except a return registry receipt in the file. At any
rate we have no indication as to how the Lodge and its members now
feel about this accused.
Also, in view of the nature of the offenses, we feel that too short a
time has elapsed to justify restoration unless we have very strong evidence of reform.
We, therefore, offer the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, That the petition of A. M. H. for restoration be
denied without prejudice to filing a new application next year or later.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1391
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This committee, to which was referred Trial Record No. 1391, reports as follows:
This Trial Record was before this Grand Lodge at its Annual
Communication in 1954 and on the recommendation of this Committee

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

295

the verdict of guilty was reversed and the case was returned to El Sereno
Lodge No. 558 for re-trial.
El Sereno Lodge now requests that it be relieved of the duty of
complying with the mandate of this Grand Lodge to re-try the accused
on the ground that it is not possible to obtain competent evidence to
support charges of unmasonic conduct against the accused.
At the time these proceedings were commenced the accused S.G.F.,
an entered apprentice Mason, was a resident of Colorado. He became
involved in certain matters and affairs that caused our brethren of
Colorado to believe that 'he was guilty of unmasonic conduct. Instead
of proceeding against him in the Colorado Lodge having jurisdiction
of him, a report was made to his home lodge, El Sereno No. 558, and
based upon such report charges were preferred against him by said
lodge. At the trial no competent evidence was supplied by our brethren
in Colorado and none has been supplied since. Sincere and honest
effort has been made, both by El Sereno Lodge and our Grand Secretary, Most WorsMpful Lloyd E. Wilson, to obtain depositions from
Brethren in Colorado who knew the facts which would support charges
of unmasonic conduct against the accused, all to no avail.
In lieu of proceeding to re-try the accused, objection has been
placed against the accused and he has been effectively stopped from
further advancement.
It appears to your Committee that, under the circumstances, El
Sereno Lodge should be relieved of the duty of re-trying the accused
at this time. If and when competent evidence is produced, further proceedings may be taken.
We, therefore, offer the following Resolution and move its adoption.
RESOLVED. That El Sereno Lodge No. 558, be and it
is hereby relieved of the duty to re-try the accused S. G. F.
as ordered by this Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication in 1954.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1407
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
of B.M.S. of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699 for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry, reports as follows:
The accused was found guilty of violation of the Corporate Securities Act of California on July 28th, 1954, and thereafter was tried
by his lodge and expelled on August 4, 1954, just a little over a year ago.
Numerous recommendations on behalf of the accused have been
presented but your committee is of the opinion that an insufficient period
of time has elapsed since the expulsion to grant restoration at this ~me.

296

297

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of B.M.S. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby denied without
prejudice.
Adopted.

The second contention of the accused, that he understood a letter
from Grand Master Drapeau to mean that he might continue with his
publication, is hardly believable upon a reading of the correspondence
between the accused and the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary.
At all events, the trial com.missioners, by their unanimous verdict, found
against this contention of the accused after having heard his testimony
and having examined such correspondence, and this Grand Lodge should
not under such circumstances reverse that finding of fact by the trial
commissioners.
As to the tird contention of the accused, we must point out that if,
in fact, the Masonic Citizen was beneficial to Masonry that fact is
entirely immaterial. Our Grand Lodge. the final Masonic authority in
California, after due debate and deliberation determined what the
policy of Grand Lodge should be as to such publications, givi~g due
thought to what would be detrimental and what would be beneficial and
for the best interests of Masonry in this jurisdiction, and no Mason may
test the wisdom of that policy by violation of the statute.
The amendment by Grand Lodge in 1951 of Section 127 was as
follows:
"RESOLVED: That Section 127 of Ordinances be amended by
adding at the end thereof the following:
No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction
of Grand Lodge. shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication which
purports to be Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body, order or organization requiring Masonic affilijition as a condition to membership."
On November 7th. 1951, the Grand Secretary forwarded to the
accused a letter in which the foregoing amendment was quoted verbatim,
and which letter stated: "The quoted language above is now Masonic
law of this jurisdiction and it is expected that you will not offend it."
The accused relies upon a letter received by him from the then
Grand Master. dated November 13, 1951, which was in reply to a letter
of inquiry written by the accused, and in which the foregoing language
was used:
"I again made a very careful study of the law and am convinced that I have no power to grant any permits at all. All I can
do is to say that the prohibition by Grand Lodge to Masons to
publish and/or insert advertising in so-called Masonic magazines
may be suspended until the next session of Grand Lodge. And I
can't do that until the committee reports favorably upon the applications."
He also relies upon a directive issued generally by the Grand Master
on November 20th, 1951, in which the following language was used:
"The Grand Master has no power to suspend or abrogate any

Trial Record No. 1413
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1413, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused, F. T., a member of America Lodge No. 475, was, by
order of the Grand Master, charged and tried in Hollywood Lodge No.
335 with unMasonic conduct based upon a specification to the effect
that, in violation of Section 127 of the Ordinances, he did solicit, insert
and print advertising during the years l 952, 1953 and 1954 in the
Masonic Citizen, a publication purporting to be Masonic in name and
character, without the express sanction of the Grand Lodge.
On this charge the accused was brought to trial, he being personally
present and represented by able counsel, and at the conclusion of such
trial com.missioners unanimously found him guilty as to the specification
and as to the charge of unMasonic conduct. The commissioners fixed
penalty at suspension.
The accused has appealed. Hls attorney has supported the appeal
by the submission of a trial brief. He urges in this brief that Grand
Lodge should reverse this conviction because: First, that although the
accused had made application for a sanction from Grand Lodge authorizing ·him to solicit advertising and to publish the Masonic Citizen and
was denied such sanction, such denial of sanction was improper; Second,
that his violation was an innocent one because he solicited and published under what he believed to be permission of the then Grand
Master, Louis C. Drapeau; and, Third, that the content of his publication, the Masonic Citizen, was, in fact, highly beneficial to Masonry.
Each member of your committee has carefully examined the entire
record of this proceeding and the appeal Bled by the accused. Without
unduly extending this report by discussing all the detail set forth in
the appeal brief. we are unanimous (except Judge Pierson, who deems
himself disqualified) in believing that the record establishes that none
of the contentions of the accused are sufficiently supported.
As to the :first contention of the accused we point out that in the
Masonic jurisdiction of California the authority of our Grand Lodge
is and must necessarily be supreme. If our Grand Lodge, by ordinance,
prohibits specific conduct by Masons, a violation of such ordinance
constitutes a Masonic offense, and to justify disciplinary action for such
violation requires no proof of actual moral turpitude, nor of fraud.

1

299

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

part of Masonic Law. So when I am asked for temporary permits
I am sure I have no power to grant them. No permit to print or
circulate any publication will be issued by me. As I read the law,
my power stops when I say to any publication, until Grand Lodge
meets next October, Masons may continue to operate such publications and other Masons may continue to advertise in them. I
have no power to recognize or sanction any publication."
But the accused does not quote the further language in the said
directive by which Grand Master Drapeau made it clear that he might
authorize the continuance of such publications until the 1952 Communication of Grand Lodge but that such authorization would be absolutely
conditioned upon the publisher obtaining a favorable recommendation
from the Committee on Publications. We quote the following language
to that effect:
"So I must follow the mandate of Grand Lodge, and require
as a prerequisite to any action by me, the recommendation of the
Committee."
"Moreover, neither my time nor my strength would permit me
to consider, study and determine alone what, if any, publications
shall be permitted to publish, and what publications Masons may
advertise in."
" ... I must have the recommendation of the Committee: I cannot change or abrogate the law: I cannot say to one publication,
"You can go ahead," and to another, "You can not." Indeed, I
don't think I can say to any publication, "You can go ahead."
"If you go ahead, you will have to do that on your own responsibility."
This directive ends with the following statement:
"But this I can say to all of you: Get your petition before the
Committee as soon as possible. And I can say to you that I know
the Committee understands this problem, and will give your application immediate attention and disposition."
Thereafter, on December 19, 1951, the accused submitted his application for a permit to publish the Masonic Citizen, and on January
11, 1952, the Grand Secretary wrote to him, in part as follows:
"After due consideration the Committee has recommended
that the application be denied, and Most Worshipful Louis C.
Draipeau, Grand Master, has directed me to inform you that the
requested permission is denied."
Following the receipt of this notice from the Grand Secretary the
accused nevertheless continued the publication of the Masonic Citizen
in direct violation of t'he order of the Grand Master. How could he,
at his trial, and now, successfully urge that he had permission to do so
from the Grand Master?
We shall not undertake to recite the substantial evidence heard by

the trial commissioners which supports their findings, but it was strong
and convincing, and we believe that Grand Lodge should afBirm those
findings.
However, we are not in accord with the penalty imposed by the commission. We believe that the policy of the Grand Lodge in the past
has been, and in the future should continue to be, that for deliberate
violation of a specific edict of Grand Lodge, the penalty must be expulsion rather than suspension. We believe in all such cases, the Grand
Lodge should be vested with the right to pass upon the future application of the accused for restoration, if he shall make such application.
W·hen the penalty is expulsion Grand Lodge retains that right, whereas
when the penalty is suspension, Grand Lodge does not have that right.
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution:
"RESOLVED, That the action of the trial commissioners in Trial
Record No. 1413, finding F. T. guilty of unMasonic conduct, be and
the same ·h ereby is ratiBed, confirmed and approved, but that by the
action of this Grand Lodge the said F. T. be and he is hereby expelled
from all the rights and privileges of Masonry."
Adopted.
Judge Ralph K. Pierson, deeming himself disqualified, has not participated in the foregoing report.

298

Trial Record No. 1415
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to which was referred Trial Record No. 1415,
reports as follows:
'I'he accused, F.W.C., was charged with un-Masonic conduct in four
specifications, alleging, in substance, as follows:
1. That said F.W.C. did knowingly and willingly recommend an
applicant for the Degrees of Masonry when he knew applicant had been
convicted of a felony, to wit, forgery, and thereafter confined in the
Missouri State Reformatory, and that he lcnew applicant was not of
good report.
2. That said F.W.C. did knowingly and willingly recommend an
applicant for the Degrees of Masonry when he knew applicant had been
convicted of a felony, to wit, grand larceny, and thereafter confined
in the Missouri State Reformatory, and that ·he knew applicant was not
of good report.
3. That said F.W.C. did knowingly and willingly enter into a
conspiracy with J.S.H .• the then Master of the Lodge, and the applicant,
to conceal from the officers, members, investigating and interviewing
committees that the "'J>plicant had been convicted of a felony and was
therefore ineligible for membership in the Masonic Fraternity and
4. That the said F.W.C. did lcnowingly and willingly fail to inform
the officers and members that the applicant had been convicted of a

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

felony and was therefore ineligible for membership in the Masonic
Fraternity. ·
The accused was found guilty of the 1st and 4th specifications and
not guilty of the 2nd and 3rd specifications. Accused was found guilty
of un-Masonic conduct. The penalty was fixed at reprimand.
This case is a companion case to 1416 and likewise has its beginning
in Trial Record 1389. Your committee feels that no purpose would be
served by setting forth the facts of the case as disclosed by the record
in evidence for the reason that such facts have heretofore been given
you in Trial Record No. 1416. Your committee therefor adopts the
facts of that case and by this reference makes it a part hereof.
Your committee is of the opinion that the accused herein has shown
himself to be unworthy to remain a member of the Masonic Fraternity.
This committee therefore offers the following resolution:
That the findings of the Trial Commissioners finding the accused
guilty of specifications 1st and 4th and guilty of un-Masonic conduct
be and they are hereby sustained: that the ·penalty of reprimand be and
it is hereby set aside and the penalty is fixed by this Grand Lodge at
expulsion.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1416
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This committee, to which was referred Trial Record 1416, reports
as follows:
The accused, J.S.H., was charged with un-Masonic conduct in eight
specifications alleging in substance that he, then being Master of Silver
Gate Lodge No. 296, did:
1. Knowingly and willingly receive and sign as a recommendor an
application for the Degrees of Masonry in Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
F. & A. M. for an applicant named B.H.E.M. whom he knew was not a
man of good report and was not qualified or eligible to receive the Degrees of Masonry.
2. Knowingly and willingly receive, sign as a recommendor and
present to Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 F. & A,. M. an application for
the Degrees of Masonry from B.H.E.M. whom he knew had been convicted of second degree forgery, a felony, and as a result of such
conviction confined in the Missouri State Reformatory.
3. Knowingly and willingly receive, sign as a recommendor and
present to Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 F. & A. M. an application for
the Degrees of Masonry from B.H.E.M. whom ·he knew had been convicted of grand larceny, a felony, and as a result of such conviction
confined in the Missouri State Reformatory.
4. Knowingly and willingly fail to further investigate this application after he knew of the conviction of applicant on a felony charge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

301

5. Knowingly and ·willingly failed to inform the officers and members of said lodge that the applicant, B.H.E.M., had been convicted
of a felony and was therefore not a man of good report.
6. Knowingly and willingly fail to inform the investigating and
interviewing committee who acted upon said application that applicant,
B.H.E.M., had been convicted of a felony and therefore was ineligible
for membership in the Masonic Fraternity.
7. Show gross neglect and disregard of the duties of Master by
which he handled said application: and
8. Knowingly and willingly enter into a conspiracy with a member,
F. W.C., to conceal from the officers, members and investigating and
interviewing committee that fact that the applicant had been convicted
of a felony and had been confined in the Missouri State Reformatory.
Accused was found guilty on the 1st, 2nd and 7th specifications, and
not guilty of the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 8th specifications. Accused was
found guilty of un-Masonic conduct. The penalty was fixed at reprimand.
This case •has its genesis in Trial Record No. 1389, wherein
B.H.E.M., the applicant referred to in the foregoing specifications,
was found guilty of "misleading and fraudulent acts" by answering
question No. 12 of the application for Degrees in the negative. Question 12 reads in part as follows:
"Do you know of any physical, legal or moral reason which would
prevent you from becoming a Mason?"
The penalty was fixed at expulsion.
From the record in evidence herein, the following facts are disclosed,
which are set forth in narrative form:
In April of 1930, B.H.E.M., then 17 years of age, was charged in
Jackson County, Missouri, with grand larceny, a felony, it being alleged
that he did unlawfully and feloniously steal, take and carry away one
motor vehicle of the value of $2,000.00. He plead guilty and was sentenced to three years in the Missouri State Reformatory.
In August of 1930 and in the same court, said B.H.E.M. was
charged with second degree forgery, a felony, it being alleged that he
feloniously and wilfully forged a check drawn on the Fidelity National
Bank. He plead guilty and was sentenced to three years in the Missouri
State Reformatory.
In October of 1931 the said B.H.E.M., in Cooper County, Missouri,
was charged with assault with intent to commit murder, it being alleged
that he and another did feloniously and with malice aforethought make
an assault with a deadly weapon, to wit, a metal cylindrical bar 1Yi
feet, with intent to kill and murder. He plead guilty and was sentenced
to six years in the Missouri State Prison.
The last charge arose out of his attempt to escape from the R~forma-

303

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tory and the assault was upon a guard who endeavored to prevent the
escape.
In January of 1949 said B.H.E.M. was residing in San Diego and
was engaged in a service station, garage and towing business. He
did towing service for the San Diego Police and in the performance of
doing such towing work, he became acquainted with one F.W.C., a
member of the San Diego Police and also a member of Silver Gate
Lodge No. 296. He had known F.W.C. around a year or so when he
requested him to obtain for him an application for the Degrees of
Masonry. F.W.C. procured an application and he filled it out and
returned it to F.W.C., whereupon he, F.W.C., signed as a recommendor.
After the application had been signed, but prior to F.W.C. signing
as a recommendor, the applicant advised him that as a juvenile he "had
been in on a juvenile charge." F.W.C. then told the applicant, "That
puts a different light on it. I (will) have to go to the Master with it."
Accused first met the applicant in the first part of January of 1949
though he had seen him before in his grocery store. F.W.C. had told
him that he had an application from B.H.E.M. and had asked him if
he would sign it and he, the accused, said "I think so." The occasion
for the accused first formally meeting the applicant was when F.W.C.
told him that the applicant had been in trouble as a juvenile and he
wanted to bring the applicant over for a talk with the accused. Thereafter, F.W.C. brought the applicant to see the accused and was formally
introduced to him by F.W.C. The applicant then told the accused
that he '"had either written a check or grand theft of an auto." There
is evidence in the record which would support a finding that the accused
and F.W.C. as well knew that the applicant had been in trouble about
forging a check and also stealing an auto. The accused testified that
at the time of the meeting he made the remark, "Have you ever killed
anybody?" Further, "I had a lot of fun. I wasn't too serious but I
enjoy making those remarks now and then. We had a laugh about it
and after interviewing him and him answering the questions and
everything. I felt in my own mind that he would make a good Mason
and I signed the application on the fender of a car at that time."
Immediately after signing the application, the accused took the applicant to the Secretary of the ·Lodge and deposited his application
and the applicant paid the required fee.
Neither the accused nor F.W.C. ever made any disclosure to the
Lodge or to the investigating or interviewing committee of this information concerning the prior activities of applicant which they had
obtained.
Subsequently, when the accused heard that the applicant was to
be charged with un-Masonic conduct for "misleading and fraudulent
ads" he made an investigation and procured from Missouri a full and
com·plete record of the convictions of the applicant.

On April 20, 1954, accused made a statement at a meeting called
by the Master of the lodge at which several brethren were present,
wherein he stated in part as folows:
"It was my understanding that he had been only in the reform
sc'hool-1 knew at the time the application was presented that
he had been convicted of an offense that resulted in his being
committed to the reform school. It was grand theft ~f an auto
of which he had been convicted.-F.W.C. informed me of this
fact-that was at the time of the presentation of the application.
I had not known B.H.E.M. before that time. He had been a friend
of F.W.C.'s for about two years.-it was stated that he had
served his time out in the reformatory. If I remember correctly,
he got 1Yi years.-He did not say what the sentence was. The
offense had been committed in the State of Missouri. He volunteered the information about it. No inquiry was made as to
whether this was the only offense of which he had been convicted. In other words, after he told F.W.C. and me about it,
I inquired of 'his wife and she discussed with tis the fact of his
having been convicted of this offense of grand theft.-Nothing
whatever was said either to me or F.W.C. about · his having
been convicted of the offense of assault with intent to kill and
we had no information about that.-F.w.c: and I discussed the
application quite a bit. F.W.C. was very well acquainted with
him. As it remember it, F.W.C. and his wife were running
around with B.H.E.M. and his wife--no request was made of
B.H.E.M. to produce any records appertaining to the conviction
of grand theft and he did not produce any records. He did not
state at die time where it was that he had served time in the reformatory. Whether the offense of which he had been convicted was a felony or not was not discussed.-There was no
discussion between me and F.W.C. as to whether we would
disclose to the other officers of the lodge or to the members the
fact that he had been convicted of this offertse of grand theft.
We considered that he had been convicted of a misdemeanor and
that it was not necessary to disclose it. At the time of the presentation of the application, F.W.C. and I discussed whether the
offense of grand theft of an auto was a felony or a misdemeanor
and F.W.C. said that he understood such an offense was a misdemeanor in California."There is no discussion of how it came about the he served 1Yi
years for a misdemeanor. After the application was presented
there was no further disclosure to me or anybody else, so far as
I know, in relation to his having been convicted of any other
offense. In other words, it did not even come to light that he had
been convicted of assault with intent to kill. We did ~ot inquire

302

304

305

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

of any official in the State of Missouri as to what offense it was
for which he had been convicted. I did not make any inquiry
until about February 4th, 1954, after the Master had asked me
about it-at that time B.H.E.M. was very dose to the police
department. At the time he got the application-he was running
a tow service at the time. The reason I did not check any further
on that offense committed by the applicant was because I relied
on the fact that F.W.C. was a police officer and it did not occur
to me that it was necessary to go any further with the inquiry.
What B.H.E.M. told me and what F.W.C. told me was good
enough for me, and that is as far as I went."
Accused further testified that if he •h ad it to do over again and
knowing what he knew at the time, that he would again sign the application and would not feel that it was necessary to make any disclosure to the lodge or the members of the investigating or interviewing
committees.
One convicted of a felony is ineligible to receive the Degrees of
Masonry.
A petition cannot go before a lodge until it has received the recommendation of at least two of its members. No recommendor should
sign an application until he has first made a careful investigation to
ascertain if the petitioner was worthy of the privileges he sought. Those
who recommend are presumed to know the law, and ought to know if
the petitioner they recomend is qualified. The members of the Lodge and
of the investigating and personnel committees have the absolute right
to rely on the good faith of the recommendors and to assume that they
have disclosed all information that they may possess regarding the
petitioner.
In the instant case, the accused made no investigation whatever
even though he had been put on notice of facts which required investigation; nor did he disclose such facts to his lodge.
There is ample evidence in the record from which the trial commissioners could have found the accused guilty on specifications 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th and 8th. Certainly it is reasonably an inference that from
the wilful failure of both the accused and F.W.C. to make a full and
fair disclosure of the true facts to the lodge and to the members of the
investigating and interviewing committees, that there was. to say the
least, a tacit understanding and agreement between them not to do so.
This committee, however, does not feel that it is necessary to request a reversal of the findings of the trial commissioners, on those
specifications upon which the accused was found not guilty. From the
record and evidence in this case, the accused has shown himself to be
unfit to remain a Mason. Certainly his conduct in withholding this

information constitutes a far greater crime against Masonry than does
the failure of the applicant, who is not familiar with our Masonic laws,
to disclose all information, and as we have seen, the applicant, though
be became a Master Mason, was expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry because he made a "false and misleading statement."
This committee therefore offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That the findings of the trial commissioners finding
the accused guilty of specifications 1, 2 and 7 and of un-Masonic conduct be, and they are hereby sustained; that the penalty of reprimand
be and the same is hereby set aside, and the penalty is fixed by this
Grand Lodge at expulsion.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1431
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Charges were brought by the Junior Warden at the direction of the
Grand Master. It specified that R. J. W., in violation of Section 287
of the Ordinances, did on or about June 1, 1954, publish and distribute
a pamphlet or letter addressed to the Brethren of the Masonic Fraternity,
urging Masons to vote for him in his candidacy for Governor of the
State of California. The accused lived in Hollywood, so summons was
forwarded to him by registered mail. When this was undelivered, regular mail was used and accused acknowledged receipt of the summons by
a letter dated Sept. 20. 1954, in which he requested that the trial set
for the 25th be continued for a period of 90 days. The letter of Sept.
20th also contained the admission of the accused that "the distribution
of the letter complained of in the charge was confined exclusively to
Masters and Officers of the various Lodges." The letter further set forth
that the accused was not given a copy of Section 287, that there was
no allegation that he knew of the existence of the provisions of said
section, that he was not informed how said ordinance could supersede
obligations of the degrees, that he was not violating any Masonic law
and was doing his duty as a Mason in asking his brethren to consider
him favorably as a candidate.
The trial commission continued the trial from Sept. 27th to Dec. 4th,
1954. The Secretary of the Lodge wrote to the accused on Sept. 27th
advising him of the new trial date, sent him a copy of Section 287 and
told him that he could obtain a copy of Constitution and Ordinances
from the Master or Secretary of a Lodge in the locality of his residence
or by writing to the Grand Secretary's office. On Nov. 22, 1954, twelve
days before the trial, accused wrote a letter to the lodge stating that he
had appointed L. 0. W., a past Master of Stockton Lodge, as his counsel, to appear with the accused and defend him, to which letter was
attached the certificate of L. O. W. that he had accepted the appointment and "will make my appearance as stated."
On December 4th, the date of the trial, the Master of the Lodge

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

received a letter from the accused dated Dec. 2nd, in which the accused
stated: "Today, Dec. 2nd, 1954, as a result of a special air flight trip
from Los Angeles, California, I have for the first time obtained procedural material for proper preparation of my defense to the charges for
which I have been summonsed to answer, etc." The letter further stated
that within 30 days from date the accused would prepare his request for
a "Bill of Particulars" and written answer, after which a convenient
date might be mutually and agreeably set for the trial. The letter further
indicated that the accused had received a "loan copy" of Ross' Digest
from the Grand Secretary. There was evidence at the trial that the accused and his counsel were in the Grand Secretary's office and had
visited with the Secretary of the lodge on December 2nd, and after
leaving the Secretary of the Lodge the accused phoned to the Secretary
stating that he would ask for a continuance of the trial. The Secretary
told him that he or his counsel should be present at the time indicated.
Neither the accused nor his counsel appeared at the trial. and the
trial commissioners determined to proceed with the trial, finding that the
accused's request for a further continuance was not meritorious. Evidence was introduced to support the changes, and the trial commission
found the accused guilty of the specification, guilty of unMasonic conduct, and fixed the 1penalty at suspension. The accused flied a notice
of intention to appeal the matter to Grand Lodge together with a brief
in support of the appeal, all of which has been considered by your
Committee.
The accused was afforded the opportunity of having a fair trial in
this matter. His first request for a continuance was granted, being in
excess of 60 days, and his request of Dec. 2nd for a further continuance
was entirely unreasonable. The accused himself admitted the facts, so
that the 8nding of guilty of the specification was correct. Using a roster
of Lodge officers for the purpose of distributing political propaganda
constitutes a Masonic offense, and. for that reason the finding that the
accused was guilty of unMasonic conduct is likewise supported in the
record.
There is some question, however, whether the penalty as fixed by
the trial commission is sufficient. Suspension is defined by Section 336
of the Ordinances as being the deprivation of a Mason's rights and
privileges as such, and prohibits all Masons and Lodges from holding
any Masonic intercourse with him until 'he shall be legally restored.
Expulsion is de8ned in Section 337 as the highest penalty known to the
Masonic law, and deprives a Mason of all rights and privileges as such,
and prohibits all Masons and Lodges from holding any Masonic intercourse with him forever, unless he be restored by the Grand Lodge. As
noted from the definition, the only difference between suspension and
expulsion is that an expelled Mason can only be restored by the vote
of Grand Lodge. A suspended Mason may be restored by the vote of
his own Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

307

Masonry does not .punish its members for unMasonic conduct by
the imposition of Bnes or incarceration. As has been well stated, punishment in Masonry is inflicted in order that the character of the institution might remain unsullied, and that the unpunished crimes of its members may not injuriously reflect upon the reputation of the entire Fraternity. For that reason its punishments are limited to expression of
disapprobation or the deprivation of Masonic rights. Our ordinances
do not fix the penalty which must be given for the commission of any
particular Masonic offense. The extent of the punishment rests in the
final analysis in the determination by Grand Lodge. Over the course of
years, this Grand Lodge has adopted certain 1policie8 with reference to
particular offenses. thereby in effect fixing a definite penalty. For example, if a Mason has committed a felony, to which he had pleaded
guilty or of which he has been found guilty, and the crime involved
moral turpitude, the penalty has been ftxed at expulsion unless there
have been strong extenuating circumstances.
Your Committee feels that the offense of which the accused was
found guilty is of such a serious nature, affecting the reputation of the
Fraternity as a whole, that the punishment should be fixed at expulsion.
This would give Grand Lodge the sole right to pass upon any possible
restoration if the accused should ever take steps to have himself restored to the rights and privileges of a Mason. We therefore offer the
following resolution and move its adoption:
"RESOLVED , T·hat the action of Parnassus Lodge No. 388 in finding the accused guilty of the specification and of unMasonic conduct
be affirmed: but that the penalty be and the same is hereby raised from
suspension to. expulsion."
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1433
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1433, reports as follows:
In 1954 the Accused, G. F. B., a member of Eden Lodge No. 113,
was convicted by a jury in the United States District Court of one count
of conspiracy to present a false claim to the Federal Housing Administration and of eight counts of wilfully making, passing and uttering
certain false statements to the Federal Housing Administration. Upon
specifications alleging the foregoing acts, Accused was charged with
un-Masonic conduct.
The charges involved certain F.H.A. home improvement loans obtained by Accused ostensibly for painting work, which were padded to
include moneys for other purposes such as the payment of existing obligations of the home owner. Before going into the home painting busi-

~09

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ness Accused satisfied himself that the arrangement between him and
th solicitors who obtained the work were such that the solicitors would
not be his agents but, from a legal point of view, would be independent
brokers. Obviously this was a planned attempt to avoid liability for the
acts of the solicitors.
At the trial the judgment of the Federal Court convicting Accused '
was introduced in evidence. Although represented by able counsel. Accused did not testify but merely read a previously prepared answer in
which he stated that he assumed that the amounts obtained from the
F.H.A. loans, over and above the cost of the work, were for brokerage
fees and for other work done under the contract: that he had never
questioned the excessive commissions to the brokers who solicited the
work.
. Under Section 319 of the Ordinances the answer of the Accused is
not in evidence on Accused's behalf but may be an admission against
interest so far as Accused is concerned.
After deliberating on the charges the Commissioners requested that
the charges be amended so as to charge not the acts of Accused but the
Federal Court convictions. This was done with the consent of Accused
and his attorney and of Accuser, who was not represented by counsel.
The Commissioners found Accused guilty of the specifications and
not guilty of un-Masonic conduct. While technically the amended
charges are not well drawn, this Grand Lodge has followed the policy
of construing such charges as charging the acts involved in the conviction. As so construed we have a finding that Accused conspired to present a false claim to the Federal Housing Administration and that he
made, uttered and passed certain false statements to the Federal Housing Administration, in violation of law. This finding is amply supported
by the judgment of conviction and is not controverted by any testimony.
Obviously. conspiring to present false claims to the Federal Housing
Administration and the presentation of such claims to such agency are
Masonic offenses.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED. That the Trial Commissioners' finding in Trial Record No. 1433 that G. F. B. is guilty of the specifications be and it is
hereby affirmed and approved: that the finding that G. F. B. is not guilty
of un-Masonic conduct be and it is hereby vacated and set aside and a
finding that he is guilty of un-Masonic conduct is hereby supplied by
this Grand Lodge; and that said G. F. B. be and he is hereby suspended
from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1435
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1435 reports as follows:
Accused E.L.T. plead guilty to a charge of Burglary not in a
Dwelling House in Oregon Nov. 26th, 1930; and he was found guilty
of Petty Theft on May 16th, 1951, in Chico, California.
He was present and testified at the Masonic trial. The trial commission found him guilty of both specifications and fixed the penalty
at a reprimand.
The record shows that in the first specification the accused was
charged with commiting a felony ·prior to his becoming a Mason which
does not state a Masonic offense therefore the finding should be
reversed .
In addition we are of the opinion that Grand Lodge should affirm
the verdict of guilty on the second specification and supply a finding
of "guilty of unmasonic conduct" with the penalty fixed at expulsion,
in view of the fact that Grand Lodge has always held that the commission of a crime involving moral turpitude merits expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Trial Commission finding of guilty in Trial
Record No. 1435 on the first specification be reversed: that the finding
of guilty on the second specification be affirmed: that by action of the
Grand Lodge the accused be adjudged guilty of unmasonic conduct
and that he be and is hereby expelled from all rights and privileges of
Masonry.
Trial Record No. 1436
To the Most' Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1436, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused, H. N .• was charged in his Lodge with unMasonic conduct, based upon a specification that for several years prior to April 27,
1954 he did conspire with certain other persons to defraud his employer
of an aggregate sum of $52,728.70. The accused was present at the trial
and was, upon evidence which we consider to have been sufficient, found
guilty of the specification, the penalty being fixed at expulsion.
However, by reason of the fact that the trial commission did not
vote upon the question as to whether the accused was guilty of unMasonic conduct, we believe that Grand Lodge should supply that finding, and we therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED that the finding of the Trial Commission in Trial Record No. 1273 that H. N. is guilty of the specification charged be approved and affirmed: that by action of this Grand ·Lodge a finding that
he is guilty of unMasonic conduct be supplied: and that the said H. N.
be and he is hereby expelled from all rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

308

310

311

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Trial Record No. 1442
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This proceeding concerns one C. P. B., a member of San Pasqual
Lodge No. 452 in Pasadena. He was charged with unmasonic conduct
in each of two specifications. We are here concerned with the first
specification only. The specification is as follows:
"That continuously during several years next last .past the said
C. P. B., doing business as Acacia Press, Post Office Box 337M, Pasa.dena, California, did use the name and emblems of Masonry for commercial purposes, namely, to sell and solicit the sale of a book called
"The Great Message," and in connection therewith did distribute
among prospective purchasers, profane and Masons alike, advertising
and other sales promotional material similar to that attached hereto
and made a part •hereof. marked Exhibits A, B, C and D."
The accused filed with the trial commission his answer in which
with respect to the first specification he admitted every material part
of the specification except for the allegation that the name and emblems
of Masonry were used "for commercial purposes" and as to that allegation he answered "that he at no time intended to make any profit, nor
has ·he made any profit, whatever from the sale of said book."
At the conclusion of the trial in which the accused was represented
by an attorney the trial commission found the accused guilty of the
first specification, found it to be unmasonic conduct and determined
that he should be punished by reprimand.
The record established by overwhelming evidence the allegations
of the specification including the allegation of the use of the "name
and emblems of Masonry for commercial purposes, namely to sell and ·
solicit the sale of a book called "The Great Message." The accused
based his defense that the enterprise was non-commercial on bis testimony that before sending the circular which advertised the sale of the
book "The Great Message" to some 76,000 persons of whom 75,000
were Masons and 1,000 were non-masons he had conducted a survey
which proved to him that he would not have enough sales of the book
to return him a profit and his further statement that the sales in fact had
not produced a profit.
Opposed to this contention of the accused is the content of the
circular which was distributed to the 76,000 .prospective customers
which, after setting forth a statement of the philosophical nature of the
book together with a number of testimonial comments by persons who
had purportedly read the book, announced that "The Great Message"
could be purchased from the accused for $3.50 "on a ten day double
money-back guarantee." Included with the circulars was an order
blank and a self-addressed, prepaid postage envelope for the remittance.
Your com.mUtee finds no merit in the assertion by the accused that
whether his effort to sell the book was commercial or non-commercial

is determined by whether it makes or fails to make an overall net profit.
We agree with the Trial Commission that this was a commercial campaign to promote sale of the book.
We feel that the printed materials used in this enterprise are so
offensive to Masonic conduct that the penalty of reprimand is inadequate.
Your committee on Grievances proposes the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That the Trial Commission's finding in Trial Record
No. 1442 that C. P. B. is guilty of the first specification and guilty of
unmasonic conduct be approved and affirmed: that by action of this
Grand Lodge the penalty of reprimand as determined by the Trial
Commission be vacated and set aside in lieu thereof that C. P. B. be
· and he is hereby expelled from all rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1445
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1445, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused C. J. C., a member of Southern California Lodge No.
278, was, by order of the Grand Master, charged and tried in Fairview
Lodge No. 629 for unMasonic conduct based upon the following speci·
fication:
"1. That said C. J. C. in violation of paragraph 2 of Section 127 of
the Ordinances of Grand Lodge, as amended in 1954, did solicit, insert
and print advertising during the months of November and December.
1954. in The Southern California Club and Sports Magazine, a publication purpo;ting to be Masonic in name or character."
On this charge the accused was brought to trial on March 30th, 1955,
and was by unanimous vote of the seven elected trial commissioners
adjudged guilty of the specification and of unMasonic conduct, and. by
unanimous vote of the commissioners the penalty was fixed at expulsion.
The accused was present at the trial and was represented by counsel
of his own choice.
The evidence presented by the Junior Warden is amply sufficient to
sustain the verdicts and judgment of the trial commissioners.
The principal defenses raised by the written answer of the accused
and by his testimony are briefly as follows:
That he did not solicit advertising for said publication:
T·h at said magazine does not purport to be Masonic in name or
character:
That his conduct did not involve moral turpitude, lack of honesty
or integrity;
That his conduct does not involve a breach of duty as a Mason:
That his conduct does not involve injury to any person:
That the legislation by which Section 127 of our Ordinances was

312

PROCEEDING S OP THE

amended in 1954, is unfair, unconscionable and unconstitutional in that
it deprived publishers of their property without due proc~s of law without compensation and that it violates the right of Freedom of the Press
and Freedom of Speech.
The elected Trial Commissioners, to whom the accused and his very
able attorney made no objection, although invited to do so, passed upon
all the contentions raised by the accused and made adverse findings upon
them. ·
The October issue of accused's magazine was named "The Southern
California Shriner." The name was changed for the November and
December, 1954 issues to "The Southern California Club and Sports
Magazine." The November issue contains 36 pages, of which thirty
pages are devoted exclusively to pictures and news items concerning
Shrine Clubs, except for the space occupied by commercial advertising.
The December issue contained 42 pages, of which 34 pages are devoted
to the same Shrine Clubs, two pages to sports events, two pages to the
Los Angeles Tennis Club, and four pages to Elks Clubs, all accompanied
by commercial advertising.
The accused, while admitting through his attorney that he was
informed of the 1954 amendment within two or three days after Grand
Lodge adopted the same, excuses his publications of the November and
December issues in practically the same form as before such action by
Grand Lodge, on the ground that in the publishing business it is not
practicable to change the form of the magazine within a month or two.
The answer to this explanation is simply that pursuant to the formal
edict of Grand Lodge the accused might well have suspended publication until the format of his magazine might have been altered so that
he would not have been in violation of the Masonic law which he well
knew had been adopted by Grand Lodge after ample debate and consideration.
This Grand Lodge has in all cases heretofore of violations of Section
127 of Ordinances, approved the penalty of expulsion. In the instant
case we find no irregularity in the trial proceedings, the evidence justifies the conviction, and but for the fact that the accused has appealed
from the verdict and judgment we would have in our omnibus report
included this case, just as we have Trial Records Nos. 1426, 1432 and
1441, each of which involves a violation of the same Ordinance, and in
each of which the penalty fixed was expulsion.
We feel it our duty to offer the following resolution and to move its
adoption:
"RESOLVE D, That the action of the Trial Commissioners in Trial
Record No. 1445, finding the accused C. J. C. guilty of unMasonic conduct, and fixing the penalty therefor at expulsion be and the same hereby is ratified, confirmed and approved."
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

313

Trial Record No. 1448
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1448, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused H. L. F. was on February 2, 1953, convicted by a jury
in the Superior Court of the crime of manslaughter, and was by the
Court, on February 11th, 1953, committed to the State Prison of California. His Lodge proceeded against him by way of automatic expulsion, but upon demand by the accused he was charged with unMasonic
conduct based upon a specification that on October 18, 1952, he did
wilfully, unlawfully, feloniously and without malice, kill E. A. F., his
wife.
The accused was brought to trial before the trial commissioners
elected by the Lodge on November 30th, 1954. The accused was present,
apparently having been, in the meantime, released from State Prison,
on parole. A prima fade case was made out by the accuser by the introduction in evidence of a certified copy of the judgment of the Superior
Court, reciting the finding of guilty by the jury, denying probation, and
committing the accused to the State Prison.
In his testimony before the Lodge Trial Commissioners, the accused
stated that ·his wife's death was the result of accident: that she herself
had the gun in her hand when she was shot.
The record shows that on October 18th, 1952, the accused and his
wife had started to a dinner party with friends, had had a quarrel, and
each had left the dinner party and had gone home alone: that in the
kitchen of their.home from about 9 to 11 P.M., they were discussing
their domestic difficulties: that at about the latter time the wife said to
the accused: "H--, sometimes you make me so mad I could kill you."
The accused then told his wife, "Well, I can make that easy for you,"
went to the bedroom, procured a .45 calibre automatic pistol. loaded it,
placed a cartridge in the chamber by operating the slide, and took it
out into the kitchen. What happened from then on is in controversy,
but the trial jury in Superior Court found the accused guilty of manslaughter, and the Judge who .presided at that trial denied a motion
for new trial. indicating his belief in the propriety of the verdict of the
jury. Furthermore , this conviction in Superior Court was appealed to
the District Court of Appeals and that court affirmed the finding of the
jury and the judgment of conviction.
Under this state of the record, the trial commission in his Lodge
acquitted the accused by a vote of 7 to 2.
From the finding of not guilty_: the accuser, the Junior Warden of
the Lodge, has appealed.
Your Committee cannot reconcile the result of this trial with the
result of the trial in Superior Court, and the affirmation of the guilt of

31-4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the accused of the felonious offense of manslaughter by the District
Court of Appeals, recorded in 121 Cal. App. 2d Reports at page 564.
We do find in the record of the Masonic trial a most peculiar circumstance which would, we believe, necessitate a disapproval by Grand
Lodge of this proceeding. Referring to pages 9 and 10 of the reporter's
transcript of the Masonic trial. we quote the following:
"COMMISSIONER R--: Worshipful Master, before we adjourn
this evening, I would like the record to show-and at this moment I'm
now speaking for Brother K-- and myself, two of the duly elected
Commissioners here-that in this particular case Brother K-- and I
were attorneys of record for Brother F--, the accused in this case ..•.
This is the first official information that we had that Brother F - - was
charged in this particular case. I want to say specifically that both
Brother K-- and I feel that we are duly qualified to sit as Commissioners in this case. . ..
"I personally argued this case before the District Court of Appeals.
It took the District Court of Appeals 34 pages of the official reports to
determine whether or not our good Brother was responsible in this particular case, and, so, with that, why, as long as the record is satisfied.
why, that is the position of Brother K-- and myself."
Yet, with two of the Commissioners clearly expressing a relationship
with the accused of attorneys and client in the criminal proceedings had
theretofore, those two Commissioners were permitted to act as trial commissioners. This was not, we believe, in accordance with the spirit of
Section 311 of our Ordinances.
We see no propriety in this case of an acquittal of the charge of
unMasonic conduct, and therefore offer the following resolution, and
move its adoption:
"RESOLVED that the action of the Trial Commissioners in Trial
Record No. 1448, in acquitting H. L. F. of the specification of man.glaughter and of the charge of unMasonic conduct, be and the same
hereby is annulled, reversed and set aside, and that by action of this
Grand Lodge the said H. L. F. is hereby found guilty upon the said
specification and of the charge of unMasonic conduct, and that the said
H. L. F. is hereby expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry."
Adopted.

claims that it would cure, among many other ailments, heart disease,
polio and cancer. The accused had pleaded guilty to the charge in the
Superior Court of Alameda County, was granted probation for 5 years
on condition that he serve one year in the County Jail, pay $2,500 .fine,
report monthly to probation officer, and refrain from any activity involving the treatment of bodily ills and ailments. A certified copy of the conviction was introduced. T 'h e accused testified that he only manufactured
the. machines, and took no part in the sales or advertisements of the
product. He did, however. have a power of attorney from the sales
agency, which power of attorney he claimed was used only to cash
checks on behalf of the sales agency. The accused further claimed that
he pleaded guilty to what he thought would be a misdemeanor and did
not expect a jail sentence. The trial commissioners found the accused
not guilty of the specification and not guilty of unMasonic conduct.
It is difficult to reconcile the acquittal by the trial commission and
the plea of guilty by the accused in the criminal trial. A plea of guilty
by a Mason in a criminal trial. followed by imprisonment, reflects injuri()usly upon the reputation of the fraternity. and unless there are some
strong extenuating circumstances, the accused must be found guilty of
the offense and of unMasonic conduct and some penalty assessed.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED. that the action of La Habra Ledge No. 659 in finding
the accused not guilty be vacated and set aside. that the accused be
found guOty of the specification and of unMasonic conduct, and that
the penalty be fixed at expulsion.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1457
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1457, begs leave to report as follows:
F. S., a member of La Habra Lodge No. 659, was C'harged with a
conspiracy to violate Section 26286.5 of the Pure Drug Act of the California Health and Safety Code. The accused, it is claimed, conspired
with others to sell an ozone generator to the public under fraudulent

315

Trial Record No. 1462
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
J. R. B.• Sr., and J. R. B., Jr., (father and son) of Mount Vernon
Lodge No. 51 7 were charged in the Superior Court with the offense
of Grand Theft ( 487 P.C.), a felony. Each of the accused entered a
plea of guilty thereby admitting the truthfulness of the charge. At the
hearing of their applications for probation, probation was granted.
J. R. B., Jr., was ordered to make $1.500 restitution and J. R. B., Sr.,
was ordered to make $1,000 restitution.
On the trial before the commission, the accuser's evidence was certified copies of the information and minutes of the Superior Court
showing the 1plea of guilty by the re8pective accused. Each of the
accused testified as did their counsel.
The alleged theft was predicated on the misuse of funds paid to
accused in connection with a contract for the remodeling of an apartment .p roperty. A careful reading of the entire record presented before
the commission disclosed at most that the accused kept such inadequate
records that neither of them were capable of testifying with any positiveness as to the source of or disposition of funds in their hands.

316

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Counsel for accused, an accountant, testified that they kept a sort of
"grocery store" type of record. We find nothing in the testimony to
explain or refute the culpability admitted by the pleas of guilty.
Your Committee offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of not guilty of unmasonic conduct
made by the Trial Commission in Trial Record No. 1462 be and the
same is hereby vacated and set aside: that by action of this Grand
Lodge, findings that the accused J. R. B., Jr., and J. R. B., Sr., and each
of them is guilty of the specification charged and of unmasonic conduct
is made herein, and that the penalty therefore be fixed by this Grand
Lodge at expulsion.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1465
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
S.H.S., a member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561, was charged
with defrauding the San Diego Firemen's Relief Association, of which
he was secretary, by charging to the association merchandise used by
himself and by taking money of the association for his own use. He was
found guilty and the penalty fixed at reprimand.
The evidence indicates that the amount of money involved in this
illegal conduct of the accused secretary was well over $1000.000, possibly several thousand dollars, although the criminal charge in the state
court for which the accused paid a fine was only a petty theft accusation.
However, it seems certain that accused was defrauding his fellowworkers in the fire department for many years, and your committee cannot agree with the light penalty imposed in this case. We therefore
offer the following resolution.
Resolved, That the findings of guilt in Trial Record No. 1465 be
affirmed and approved but the penalty be raised to expulsion and that
said S.H.S. be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

TRIALS HELD OVER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Califomi~
Either accuser or accused has thirty days after the announcement
in lodge of the result of the trial within which to appeal. They have
sixty days from said date within which to file additional evidence, etc.
Therefore Grand Lodge cannot pass on a trial record if the time for
appeal or the time for filing data in case of an appeal has not passed.
The following trial records come within the foregoing provisions:
1375-R.G.R.• W. D. Stephens Lodge No. 698
1380-H.W.S., Euclid Lodge No. 519
146~L.S., James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566
1470-H.M.G., Ramona Lodge No. 457

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

317

1471-H.M.E., Bell Lodge No. 483.
1472-W.M.L., John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657.
1473-J.R.D., Anchor Lodge No. 273.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolvea, that Trial Records 1375, 1380, 1469, 1470, 1471, 1472
and 1473 be continued until the next annual Communication for consideration.
Adopted.
Grand Lodge was called off at 12:00 o'clock until 1 :30 P.M.

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERN OON SESSIO N-Thurs day, October 27, 1955
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :40 P.M., the Grand Master presiding.

REPORT OF THE COMMI TTEE ON BY-LAWS

To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
California Masonic Lodges have again been active amending their
By-Laws to provide for necessary changes. Building for the future is
one of the dominating themes of our present Communication.. It is always present as one of the objectives of a successful executive. It was
given 100% consideration when our Ma8?nk forefathers t~k. such a
prominent part in the building of the United States Constitution and
under that Charter our country has grown great and powerful.
The Uniform Code of By...:Laws is a part of our Masonic Constitution and provides for the various differing activities of the constituent
lodges. Incoming Masters should review the By-Laws and with the
Secretary endeavor to keep them uip-to-date and so worded as to always permit the lodge to function efficiently.
The Grand Secretary 's office has compiled forms which are available upon request fo~ the most usual amendments to By-Laws.
Use of these forms has greatly assisted the Grand Officers and
this Committee in passing on the legality of desired changes. You also
gain suggestions from the Grand. Secretary's .office that enable. all
desired changes in By-Laws to be incorporated in the one proceeding.
Two lodges each presented two amendments of the same section this
year. The four amendments have been a?proved. The last i~ time in
each case of course prevails as the governing law of the section.
Our Committee continues to suggest that you 6.ll in the blanks regarding the affiliation fee. We grant, that a blank space presumes no
charge, but a word there shows an expression on th~. question. We have
received an assortment of terms used, as follows: Nil-No- -No Fee
-No/100 's and None." All of them are sufficiently definite.
One amendment dealing with legal holidays that has received much
attention this year reads as follows: "Except in any month when the
regular meeting date shall fall on New Year's Day. Indepei:idence Day
-legal holidays or any one of the above legal holidays, falling on Sunday is observed on the Day (Monday ) following the stated meeting
shail be holden on the Second Monday of that month." It conforms to
present day practice regarding holidays.
We believe the agreements as to fees between lo.dges having concurrent jurisdiction is good procedure and conducive to good Masonic
relations.
When the annual dues of the lodge are increased, attention should
also be given to the Standing Resolution 6.xing the cost of a Llfe Mem-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

bership. We refer to Section 253, Ross Digest, and other sections relating thereto which will require that the cost of Llfe Membership be
increased in the same proportion as the dues are increased.
We have had some difficult problems to work out regarding amendments for lodges where meetings were governed by the moon. They
were interesting and educational: the necessary wording was 6.nally
formed to provide the desired result.
An amendment regarding Grand Lodge Week will interest you as
it provides for continuing the time of the stated meeting. A portion of
the opinion reads as follows:
"The Winston Universal Library Dictionary gives as definitions of 'holiday': 'A day of freedom from labor; also, a day consecrated to religious celebration."
"A. This reference book gives as a definition for 'legal': 'Permitted or authorized by law.'
"Annual approval of By-Laws exempting holidays has been
given by Grand Lodge for many years. It appears that the exemption is permitted because it is based on sound and practical
reasons.
"A. Precedent for approving the amendment under consideration has been set by Grand Lodge in that Article III. Section I
of the By-Laws of Ferndale Lodge made this same amendment
and Grand Lodge approved it. They now ask only to change the
day of the week from the First Friday to the Second Monday.
"Section 135, Ross Digest, requires:
" 'Each chartered and duly constituted lodge shall be represented in tlie Grand Lodge at every communication by one or
more of its proper officers, or by a representative. It may instruct
its officers or its representative relative to voting upon any proposition coming before the Grand Lodge."
"Section 3, Ross Digest, reads:
" 'The Grand Lodge shall be composed of a Grand Master
. .. and the Masters and Wardens of the several chartered and
duly constituted Lodges.•. .'
"With a provision in its By-Laws whereby the stated meeting
of a Lodge, falling within Grand Lodge Week. is holden on the
next succeeding regular day of the week, the Master, Senior
Warden and Junior Warden may all attend Grand Lodge, each
being a member thereof. Each has one vote so it is contemplated
that each will attend. Without the By-Laws provision, one of the
three Officers must remain at the location of the Lodge for the
stated meeting or absent himself from Grand Lodge to return
home and be present at the stated meeting.
"Considering the qu~stion from a Masonic law and also operative viewpoint, it appears that the proposed By-Law exemp-

320

321

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion is based on sound reasons, and not, prohibited. The Lodge
provides that its monthly business meeting be postponed a week
to allow its Officers to join in the Masonic Labors of its Grand
Lodge while in annual Communication. No Masonic Law or
ordinance is violated and Grand Lodge has heretofore approved
the provision in similar form. Section 7, Ross Digest, fully provides this power to Grand Lodge:
" 'Its legislative powers extend to every case of legislation
not eXJpressly delegated by itself to the Lodges. The Constitution,
Regulations and Uniform Code of By-Laws for Lodges, which
the Grand Lodge has an inalienable right to adopt and promulgate at its own convenience, and to alter, amend, or repeal at its
own pleasure, limited only by a strict adherence to the Ancient
Landmarks of the Order, are final and binding upon all Lodges
and Masons within its jurisdiction until so altered, amended, or
repealed.'"
One hundred seventy-six amendments to By-Laws have been considered and reviewed by our Committee. The points involved and the
names of the lodges are set forth in the report of the Grand Secretary
which we here incorporate. The printer left out three lodges which this
report has added to the.list. The complete list therefore is as follows:

Virtuvius No. 145, to $15.00: Keystone No. 161, to $16.00; Silveyville
No. 201, to $15.00; Inyo No. 221, to $15.00; Alcatraz No. 244, to $15.00:
Pasadena No. 272, to $15.00: Redlands No. 300, to $15.00; Reedley
No. 304, to $15.00: Ashlar No. 306, to $15.00; Monrovia No. 308, to
$18.00: Hollywood No. 355, to $15.00; Balder No. 393, to $15.00;
Apollo No. 396, to $15.00; Inglewood No. 421, to $15.00; Eagle Rock
No. 422, to $15.00; Exeter No. 424, to $15.00: Lancaster No. 437, to
$15.00: Van Nuys No. 450, to $15.00; Bethlehem No. 453, to $18.00:
Alta Vista No. 464, to $18.00; Woodstock No. 491, to $16.00; Palms
No. 512, to $15.00; Cahuenga No. 513, to $15.00; Vermont Square No.
515, to $15.00; George Washington No. 525, to $15.00; Triangle No.
548, to $15.00: South Park No. 563, to $15.00: Fort Crook No. 575,
to $15.00; Rialto No. 582, to $15.00; Garden Grove No. 586, to $15.00;
Dimond No. 603, to $18.00; Crescenta Valley No. 562, to $16.00; Altadena No. 687, to $15.00; Orinda No. 704, to $15.00; Hunters Point
Naval No. 706, to $15.00: Magnolia Park No. 715, to $15.00; Polaris
No. 730, to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Molino No. 150: Harmony No.
· 164: Ferndale No. 193; San Miguel No. 285: Highland Park No. 382:
Blackmer No. 442; Bethlehem No. 453; Clarence F. Smith No. 482:
Fremont No. 497: Benjamin Franklin No. 509: Queen Beach No. 540:
South Park No. 563; James A. Garfield No. 566: Composite No. 639;
Sojourner No. 607; Lorenzo No. 709.
Provision for legal holidays: San Jose No. 10; Crescent No. 45;
Arcata No. 106: Hermann No. 127; South West No. 283; Alhambra
No. 322; Jewel No. 374; Oceanside No. 381; Imperial No. 390; Clovis
No. 417; Chino Valley No. 427; San Dimas No. 428; Temblor No. 477:
Mount Davidson No. 481; Fremont No. 497; Cahuenga No. 513; Sunnyside No. 577; Security No. 581; All States No. 593: Lamanda Park No.
627: Damascus No. 648; John D. Spreckels No. 657; Malta No. 661:
San Antonio No. 694; El Cerrito No. 705; Los Altos No. 712; Magnolia
Park No. 715.
· Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Marin No. 191; San Leandro
U.D.: Peninsula U.D.; Mother Colony U.D.; Merced U.D.: Highland
U.D.: Soquel U.0.; Hamilton U.D.; San Pablo U.D.; Luther Burbank
U.D.; Claude H. Morrison U.D.: Golden Bowl U.D.; Lawndale U.O.;
Clayton Valley U.D.; Channel U.D.: El Rancho U.D.: West Covina
U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Eden No. 113: Mission No. 169; Mosaic No.
218; Redlands No. 300: San Fernando No. 343.
Mutual Agreement Re Fees: Yosemite No. 99: Merced U.D. _

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAws
Increasing fees: Western Star No. 2, to $65.00; Te'hama No. 3, to
$100.00: Eden No. 113, to $105.00; Northern Light No. 190, to $65.00;
Silveyville No. 201, to $90.00; Magnolia No. 242, to $100.00; Reading
No. 254, to $90.00; King Solomon's No. 260, to $115.00; Pasadena No.
272, to $115.00; Mount Shasta No. 281, to $90.00: Ontario No. 301,
to $75.00; Monrovia No. 308, to $100.00; Corona No. 324, to $115.00;
Consuelo No. 325, to $90.00; West Gate No. 335, to $175.00; Turlock
No. 395, to $75.00; Lancaster No. 437, to $115.00; San Pasqual No.
452, to $115.00: Argonaut No. 461, to $115.00; Seaside No. 504, to
$125.00; Vermont Square No. 515, to $100.00; Triangle No. 548, to
$115.00: James Madison No. 572, to $100.00; Warren G. Harding No.
579, to $100.00; Carmelita No. 599, to $115.00; Canoga No. 611, to
$90.00; R. E. Dolley No. 616, to $100.00: Angeles Mesa No. 625, to
$125.00; Altadena No. 678, to $115.00; Polaris No. 730, to $100.00.
Decreasing fees: Plumas No. 60, to $75.00; Barstow No. 682, to
$65.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Jewel No. 374, at $10.00; Van Nuys No. 450,
at $10.00: Vermont Square No. 515, at $15.00; Sun Garden No. 530,
at $20.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Redlands No. 300; Richmond No. 375;
Ramona No. 457: Lincoln No. 470.
Increasing dues: Tehama No. 3, to $15.00; Mount Moriah No. 44,
to $15.00; Plumas No. 60, to $16.00: Henry Clay No. 95, to $16.00;

RESOLUTLONS-PROVIDING FOR CHANGE OF MEETING PLACE

Cresce~t .Lodge No. 45; Guadalupe Lodge No. 237; Hesperian
No. 264: Los Gatos No. 292; Alta No. 333; Fruitvale No. 336: Bethlehem

322

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. 453; Fremont No. 497; Benjamin Franklin No. 509; Euclid No. 519:
Lakeshore No. 551; South Park No. 563; West Adams No. 565: James
A. Garfield No. 566; Fort Crook No. 575; El Cajon Valley No. 576:
Valley Forge No. 587; Sojourner No. 607: Composite No. 639; Crescenta Valley No. 652: Canby Cross No. 679; Redwood Empire No.
683: Albany No. 686: Indian Wells Valley No. 691: Orinda No. 704:
Oasis of Mara No. 735: Oakwood U.D.; Mother Colony U.D.
Changing Annual Meeting to November: Howard No. 37: Drytown
No. 174.
All the Amendments and Resolutions as finally submitted have
received the approval of the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary.
We approve them and recommend the adoption of this Report
approving the Amendme nts and Res?lutions.. We also. re~uest that
the adoption of this report also constitute official authorization to the
Grand Secretary to officially amend by endorsem ent thereon, the
Charters of those Lodges changing their place of meeting to a place
other than that named in the Charter, and the affixation of the seal of
Grand Lodge to his endorsement.

Speculative, in that the Corner Stones suggested fo~ consideration:
"That those who govern should receive their
just powers with the consent of the governed."
"That all men have the right to worship God in
accordanc e with the dictates of their own conscience."
"That free ·public education is a prime necessity
for a people who are to remain free and equal."
appeared to be the basic principles in greatest danger of continuing
attack by those who, from within and without, would destroy our Constitutional Freedoms and, as well, the points most subject to deterioration through our own indifference and complacency.
Operative, in that fields of endeavor should readily suggest themselves which would be in keeping with our basic Masonic philosophy
of the duties of active Citizenship at local, county, state and national
levels.
A review of nearly 600 individual Lodge reports which have been
received by the committee indicates how well the Theme was adopted,
timt; alone will tell how well the challenge was accepted.
· The Theme was emphasized in "Californi a Freemaso n" and a great
many of the Trestlebo ards, programs and news releases which have
come to the attention of the committee. Our special thanks must go
to the co-operative publications "Kern County Masonry" of Bakersfield and "Masonry at Work" of Santa Barbara for their September
issues which carried the suggested material in full and thus made it
available to nearly 7500 o~ our members, their families and friends.
We note a steady trend toward a more general opening of the door
during these Observan ces and ever increasing participation by the
Shrine, York Rite, Scottish Rite, Eastern Star, Jobs Daughters , Rainbow Girls and De Molay as the family of Masonry and by Schools,
Churches and Service Clubs as the friends of Masonry, indicating an
interest which should be encouraged. Noted also was a prevalent use
of appropria te motion pictures as a supplement or as a feature in the
programs and the thrilling part of this is the fact that in the great majority of cases the source of supply was the Public School Film Library,
indicating continuing co-operation between Lodges and School Officials.
While it is not our purpose to single out individual Lodges or areas
for special mention it seems advisable to mention a few since they point
the way to new opportunities to make our voice heard outside the precincts of our Lodge Rooms.
Hayward: Eculayiptus No. 243-Lore nzo No. 709-Cast ro Valley
No. 713, and the Lake Chabot Club sponsored a public meeting in the
Hayward Union High School Auditorium and in aqdition to very fine
speakers featured the Sixth Army Band and the Color Guard oI the
1iith California Air National Guard.

OAKLEY K. MORTON
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY
WM.W.M cKEE
ROBERT C. PEYTON
LEET. MULLEN
HARRISON M. WALKER
CARL R. MOORE

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON
CONSTI TUTION MONTH OBSERV ANCE

To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
The program material suggested for our nineteenth annual Constitution Month Observan ce was designed to provide both a THEME and
a CHALLE NGE.
The Theme, "The Miracle of the Constitut ion-when ever we walk
in the atmosphere of the Constituti on of the United States we walk in
the realm of the Almighty, " was borrowed by .permission from an address by Brother J. Harry Sroufe, Past Grand Orator of the Grand
Lodge of Oregon, because the combination of. its emotional and spiri.tual
impact indicated that it might well become impressed upon the minds
and hearts of th-0se who saw and heard it and thus be remembered long
after the words of the balance of the program, the thoughts of speakers
or the impressions of other program features were forgotten.
The Challenge, to EMULAT E not just VENERA TE the example
of our founding fathers, was both speculative and operative in accordanc e
with tradition.

323

324

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Santa Maria: Hesperian No. 264 in co-operation with its local radio
station broadcast the suggested program material in full.
Santa Barbara: With the co-operative assistance of Television Station KEY-TV, a 30 minute dramatized version of "The Miracle of the
Constitution" was telecast live and in costume on the last Sunday in
September.
Los Angeles: The drama "Architects of Freedom" was again featured at the Scottish Rite Cathedral with tickets available for the asking.
Long Beach and Riverside: Oakley K. Morton with the co-operation
and assistance of Newcomb Condee produced the pageant "The Making
of the Constitution" and under the sponsorship of El Bekal Temple
and the Long Beach Consistory presented it in the Long Beach Municipal Auditorium on Saturday, September 17th, and in the Riverside
Municipal Auditorium on Saturday, September 24th, for the benefit of
Masons in those respective areas, their families, friends and the public.
Our only recommendation is that this annual Observance be continued and carefully expanded to the end that the Voice of Masonry
may continue to be heard in increasing volume, for, just as it was the
influence of the Men of Masonry in the decade following the Declaration
of Independence which brought about "The Miracle of the Constitution" it may well be the destiny of the Men of Masonry in the decade
ahead to provide the leadership so necessary for the preservation of that
"Mirach~."

Respectfully submitted,
RALPH

c. HINE

WILLIAM B. McKESSON
JoHN BROOKE
JAMES L. HALLEY
HORACE R. LAFORTUNE
CYRIL W. McCLEAN
HUGH D. MONCUR

s. PINKHAM
HAROLD s. STEIN

LEROY

KARL STOLTING
JOHN

w. SWANK

c. THEDE
CARL u. ZACCHRISON

HARRY

325

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Standing Committee on Masonic History begs leave to report
as follows:
Although this report of your standing committee on Masonic History
was iprepared under the direction of the Most Worshipful Past Grand
Master Leon 0. Whitsell, Chairman of the committee, he is absent from
this Grand Lodge for the first time in many years. He and Mrs. Whitsell are taking a trip around the world and will be away from California
until next April or May. While he is greatly and sincerely missed, all
of us rejoice in his good fortune and join in wishing them a safe and
satisfying journey.
At the 1954 Communication of this Grand Lodge, the Committee on
Masonic History was made a regular standing committee, out of recognition that the work of this committee is a continuing work and that a
program of record-keeping, archive-searching, and event-recording
would have to be a continuous program if it were to effectively serve the
·
needs of this Grand Lodge.
During this past year, the committee has made a start towards fulfilling the objectives set for it. The work of recording and gathering
information relative to the Lodges of this jurisdiction is well under way
and will continue. The committee held a meeting at Stockton shortly
after the first of the year, at which all members but one were present
and he was absent due to an emergency situation in his home the day
before. The meeting lasted all day and an area of work was delegated
to each member as his contribution throughout the year. A product of
this work was the drafting of a paper entitled, "Your Centennial Observance," compiled from material on all past centennial observances
among the respective Lodges and which offers suggestions relative to
a centennial program, pointing out pitfalls ilS well as objectives in good
programming. This .paper has just recently been completed and is being
mimeographed in sufficient quantity that several copies may be mailed
to the newly installed Junior Warden of a Lodge whose centennial will
take place during the year that he is Master. A Lodge should start planning its centennial observance at least two years prior to the event. The
committee feels that the paper can be improved upon and as time and
ex.perience dictate, it will be revised. Meanwhile, it is hoped that this
material will be found helpful. The Lodges need not apply for it as it
will automatically be mailed to the incoming Junior Wardens as they
take office.
In connection with centennial celebrations, the committee is not being
called upon frequently enough to render assistance in the compilation
of such historical data as a Lodge might wish to use. The committee
stands ready to assist the respective Lodges in assembling and organizing such historical material as is available to it when called upon to do

326

327

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

so. During the past year. several Lodges took advantage of this ser~­
ice and we like to believe that their centennials were better for it. If
you desire such assistance, write the committee in care of the Grand
Secretary.
Your chairman, or one or more members of your committee, attended
all or nearly all of the centennial celebrations that were held to date.
At several. one or more members were scheduled speakers. As many
as four of the seven members have attended centennials, per meeting,
and the committee plans on continuing this activity. In addition to the
centennial celebrations, one or more of the members have attended every
dedication, institution, or charter ceremony within travel distance of our
homes. Programs of these events have been collected and placed in the
files of the committee for future use or reference.
Once again the committee calls attention of this Grand Lodge to the
continuing need for safeguarding your Lodge records, all of which in
due time will become valuable from both a monetary and historical standpoint. if in fact they are not already so. For instance, those Lodges
having in their file letters bearing the signature of our first Grand Master. Jonathan Drake Stevenson. own documents of considerable tangible
value, as Brother Stevenson was a famous California pioneer, aside from
being our first Grand Master. He achieved national fame and went
down in history as the famous commander of "Colonel Stevenson's Regiment of New York Volunteers." which was raised by Brother Stevenson
by direction of President Polk. his friend, and which came to California
in 1846 as a constabulary force to help keep the peace and def end this
newly-won territory. Other famous early-day pfuneer Masons either
were members of our Lodges or were in communication with them. Bear
Mountain Lodge has the signature of Samuel Clemens, whose pen name
you all know as "Mark Twain," on its Tiler's register. In due time the
signature of such a contemporary Mason as the Chief Justice of the
United States, the Most Worshipful Earl Warren, will become valuable
if not already of some value.
. Tim~ does not permit us to go on further but the respective Lodges
own literally hundreds of signatures of persons, men who were colorful,
famous. much-honored and respected, and with the passing of time signatures that are sought after and. as a result. valuable. Aside from their
monetary value, your Lodge records and documents are priceless and
irreplaceable as records of the passing events of your Lodge life, and
when lost constitute a loss nearly as great as that of some member of
one's family. Your committee urges, if you have not already done so,
that each Lodge procure a fireproof vault in which to keep your records.
You can either buy such a vault or for a relatively small sum-the cost
of materials in most cases, you can construct your own vault out of
cement or brick. When you arrange for such a vault be sure to get one
large enough to hold all of your records, past and present. Remember,
"records" are not.only your Lodge books but also your correspondence,

invoices. publications, etc. Masters: appoint a committee to get this
done NOW. To borrow a trite phrase, "tomorrow may be too late."
On November 6, 1954; at Cypress Lawn Cemetery, Colma, California. Grand Master Clausen conducted the ceremony of re-interring the
body of Past Grand Master Jonathan Drake Stevenson in Section K,
Lot 226. Grave 122, the plot of California Lodge No. 1. A suitable
marker was placed over the grave.
Most Worshipful: the members of your History Committee join in
expressing their appreciation for the privilege of serving during the past
year. I move the ·a doption of this report together with the request that
the sum of $250 be allocated to finance the expenses of the com~ittee
for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL
0. WOHLGEMUTH
ARTHUR H. TRIGGS
CARL
BRAINARD
FRANK EVERET!'
WESLEY A. SIMARD
RICHARD E. GIESIN

J,

w.

Ref erred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC CLUB HOUSE,
BERKELEY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of The University,
Berkeley, California, is pleased to submit its annual report of the activities for the fi'scal year 1954-1955.
We feel that the Club is serving a very important function at the
University, by providing a social center for the student Club members.
Eligible members of the dub, as you know, include Masons. Sons and
Daughters of Masons, members of DeMolay, Job's Daughters and
Rainbow. and other closely related members of Masonic families regularly attending the University.
During the past year the activities of the Club have continued to
express the original purpose to serve as a center for Masonic activities
and to further the ideals and principles of the Fraternity, by encouraging the students at the University of California to receive the greatest
possible benefits of education. We feel that the original intent in providing this center of Masonic activity is being more than accomplished.
This is evidenced by the intense interest of the student members in
their many activities and indirectly reflecting the purpose we wish to
attain. They ex·press themselves in the following quotations:
"The students in the dub realize that we have exceptional facilities
compared with most organizations on this campus, and we know that
a larger membership leads to a more active, spirited, Qrganization•. We

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

feel that our membership, although it is growing steadily, is still far
below the potential that the campus offers.
"The Masonic Club of the University offers a fine and varied program for social and recreational activities. The opportunities to watch
television or just chat with friends, are restful and enjoyable. The quiet
dignity of our beautiful lounge is as restful to our members as to our
many and frequent guests."
Membership in the student club is not at the level that we feel is
possible to attain. Every effort is being made by the student members
and your Board of Directors to direct attention to the Club and inform
the brethren of this Grand Jurisdiction of the facilities provided for
their children. Membership during the past year was about 180. This
represents a low percentage against the registration at the University.
At the present writing we are informed that the membership has been
increased by 57 new members. From information made available to us,
it appears that group meetings of the East Bay Masters and Wardens
Association, Guardian Council of Job's Daughters, University Square
Club, San. Francisco Masters and Wardens Association, and a combined group of East Bay District Officers Associations have greatly
furthered interest in the Club.
Our particular appreciation is extended to The Most Worshipful
Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master, for his sincere interest in the Clubhouses as ex•pressed in his letter of July 18, 1955 addressed to all lodges,
requesting them to publicize and l>ecome aware of these facilities and
privileges.
Many improvements ·have been completed during the past year. including installation of new heating equipment, new rugs, and interior
decorations. The attractiveness of the club has been greatly improved.
An attractive revision of a brochure of information about the club
has just recently been made available. It is sincerely hoped that the
attending members to this Grand Lodge Communication will avail themselves of the opportunity to review this brochure and visit the clubhouse
during the school year.
The coming year presents no unusual requirements for maintenance
expenditures and therefore the proposed budget previously presented
to the Finance Committee for consideration includes only basic necessary operating expenses. The budget and a com·plete auditor's report for
the past year are included as a part of this report.
The undersigned members of your Board of Directors wish to express their appreciation for the opportunity to serve this Grand Lodge
in this and every other capacity.

BUDGET, 1955-1956
MASONIC CLUB OF THE UNIVERSITY
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA

328

PAUL s. BOREN
c. D. NEILSEN

GENE C: OTWELL
CARL B. MUNCK

Referred to Committee on SegrE!gation.

R. P. WISECARVER
WALTER T. HELMS
R. C. HORSTMANN
ANGUS S. HOLDEN
RAY LAUGHREY

329

Budget
Actual to Date
1955-1956
July 31, 1955
330.00
360.00
$
$
.-.........
...........................
~
Accountant :....•..,..........
150.00
150.00
Annual Audit ....................................................
650.00
Annual Cleaning ............................................... .
1,500.00
Attendant ......................................................... . 1,500.00
70.00
.
53.40
Garbage .............................................................
75.00
33.09
Garden Supplies ............................................... .
1,400.00
Heat, Light, Water............................... - ........... 1,234.53
500.00
120.83
Insurance ............................................................
500.00
118.88
Miscellaneous ....................................................
150.00
82.84
Office Supplies, Periodicals. ............................ .
2,000.00
1,595.25
.......
.........................•......
Gardener
and
Janitors
500.00
354.48
Janitorial Supplies ............................................. .
2,000.00
Repairs ............................................................ .. 1,089.70
3,000.00
Resident Hostess .............................................. 2,750.00
140.00
59.00
.
................
Social Security .................................
2,640.00
Taxes ................................................................ .. 2,403.54
300.00
243.70
Telephone ..........................................................
6,000.00
.
....................
.................................
Depreciation
Furniture and Major Replacements.................. 7,431.95
$21,935.00
Expenditures shown under "Major Replacements" covering cost of
rug and furnace replacement, were withdrawn from our reserve depreciation fund, at the request of the Grand Lodge Finance Committee.
~otal....................................................... $19,551.19

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF DIRECTORS
OF MASONIC CLUBHOUSE, LOS ANGELES

of the undersigned Board of Directors. T 'his is a routine report, not
prepared for publication, and should provide the members of Grand
Lodge a reasonably accurate picture of the kind of activities which your
work and your contributions make possible.
Attached hereto are the aforesaid summary and the budget.
Director ··········································-··..:..••.~....._, 3600.00
Assistant Director ................................................ 2220.00
Building Assts ..& Maintenance.... :........... ,......... 1320.00
Gen. Bldg. Maintenance...................................... 1500.00
600.00
Gardener & Gardening........................................
100.00
.......
........................
Magazines & Newspapers.....
Heat, Light, Water and Power............................ 1000.00
350.00
Telephone .····························································
100.00
Office Supplies ....................................................
80.00
Postage .............................................................•..
3000.00
..................
.........................
Taxes .........................
Insurance .. ,........................................................... 3000.00
100.00
Auditing ......... _:..................................................
.200.00
Stationery & Printing..........................................
360.00
Social Security ....................................................
6600.00
......
.........................
Depreciation .........................
100.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................

'

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
During the past y~ar we celebrated the Silver Anniversary of the
Masonic Clubhouse on the Westwood campus by having a banquet to
which we invited as guests all Masters of Lodges in this area, together
with their wives, all student members of the Masonic Affiliate Club, and
a number of special guests from the University, including the Chancellor
and his wife. Judge Ellsworth Meyer, P.G.M., welcomed the guests
and explained the history and the purpose of the Clubhouse. Music
was furnished by the Scottish Rite orchestra under the direction of
Mr. David Gussin.
One of the purposes of the banquet was to make the Clubhouse and
its facilities familiar to all Lodges throughout this area, in the hope that
it would increase membership in the student Club. In this respect it
had only minor success. In another manner, however, this objective
was accomplished. The student guests who attended included the
"pledges." A larger percentage than normal of the pledges this year
completed their membership and became active in the work of the Club.
We can assume that the banquet with the large number of Masons pres~
ent impressed the students and increased their interest. In any event,
we did take in more members and the result has been a highly successful
year.
It is also particularly gratifying to report that as a result of the
Grand Master's message to the Lodges regarding the Clubhouses, we
have had visitations from several of the Lodges.
We report with regret the resignation during the year of one of our
Directors, Bro. A. H. Nicoll, who has moved his residence to Northern
California.
We also report with deep sorrow the passing of a beloved member
of our Board, Bro. Chas. E. Listenwalter. His loss will be keenly felt.
His always kindly words and ever-willing helping hand will cause him
to be long remembered.
For many years this report has consisted of a general description
of the activities of the Club for the preceding year. Anyone desiring
that general information can look at the reports of prior years. In
particular, the report of last year describes almost exactly the program
of this year with respect to publicity, Club organization and activities,
snack bar, etc.
To make the report different this year and to provide more speciftc
information, we are going to leave out the general information and sub~
stitute as an appendix, in addition to the budget, a summary of the
Club's activities. This summary was prepared by the Director and the
Assistant Director, Mrs. Sheldon and Mrs. Johnson, for the information

331

Total ···········································--······"····$24,230.00
The Insurance figure is increased due to the renewal of our Public
Liability, Bodily Injury and Fire Insurance three~year policies.
Our Depreciation is determined as follows:
Building and Landscaping
(less depreciation) ...........................:.......... $63,854.46
Depreciation on basis of
$2900.00
twenty~two ( 22) years............................
Furnishings & Equipment
(less depreciation) ............................., ........ 25,912.31
Depreciation on basis of
3700.00
eight ( 8) years........................................
Total Depreciation............................
Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH MEYER
A. CURTIS SMITH
EARLE CRANE
·CLYDE C . SHOEMAKER
JoHN A. KLARQUIST
DRAKE
ELVIN

c.

c.

$6600.00

w.

WADE
EDWIN
MARION A. DUNCAN
JOHN M. ASKIN
HowARD M. WILSON
FRANK REINSCH
GEORGE E. HALL
HERBERT H. COOPER

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

332

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON DE MOLAY

To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
Your special committee on De Malay continues to follow as closely
as possible the plan of the originating committee of 1946, that is one.. of
education and coordination and finally to make an annual report on the
progress of De Malay in California.
Following are a few excerpts from reports of.commit tee members.
Brother Lester G. Bruno of the Sacramen to area writes, "I believe
that Masonry in this area is closer acquainte d with the workings of
De Malay than it has ever been in the past. We have in Sacramen to
Chapter for the first time included on our mailing list all of the Masonic
Lodges, as well as every brane'h of Masonry. This means that they now
receive our monthly Preceptor .
"I have appeared before the Masters and Wardens Association
with the permission of the Inspectors of this area, and we have made
arrangeme nts for all of the eleven Blue Lodges to visit Sacramen to
Chapter of De Malay.
"We are going to have the members of five of the Blue Lodges on
November 16th and the remaining six Blue Lodges on November 17th,
visit De Malay at the Scottish Rite Temple, at which time De Malay
will confer their degree. We hope to make this an annual affair.
"It was certainly a pleasure for me to visit with the Master and
Wardens, and to note the manner in which they received our program.
I might say that I believe that Masonry in Sacramen to is proud of
De Malay, and also going to do all that it can to further promote De
Malay in this area.
"As you know, we are in need of at least two more chapters of
De Molay in Sacramen to. I hope that out of this meeting something
will develop.
"The masters of the various Lodges are going to carry the invitations to their members, and urge them to attend through their monthly
bulletins."
Brother Charles B. Weaver of the Santa Barbara area states: "I
have promise of a joint meeting of the three Blue Lodges and the De
Malay degree teams here. Progress is very good in the local chapter
and it shows great promise. I have checked with the groups in Oxnard,
Ventura, Santa Maria, Lompoc and San Luis Obispo. Oxnard and
Ventura are working well with the Blue Lodges. I plan a trip soon to
these various cities-:ha ve found much has been done by the group in
this section."
Brother Clare R. Nelson from the San Joaquin Valley writes: "I
am happy to report that the health of De Malay in this section of the
state is good. One rather unsettled chapter has ironed out its troubles,
·
last reported, and is now doing well.
Joaquin
San
the
organizing
of
"The advisors are now in the process

333

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Valley De Malay Advisor's Association and with the adoption of a
constitution in September, I believe that the different De Malay chapters ~ii~ be better eq~ipped to go ahead cooperatively with their job
of building our youth mto leaders for our adult society.
"Some chapters are in need of more and better advisors from our
craft. What seems to be needed is a better enlightenment of the importance of De Malay to our future, both in and out of Masonry. The
attitude of almost all Masons toward De Malay can best be described
~ith one word, 'indiffe.rence,' that is when everything goes right, but
if anything goes wrong, usually because of an overworke d and under
manned Advisory Council. it's a different story. The apathy of
Protestant ism as a whole and Masonry in particular toward the youth
and youthful guidance and development of mind and moral fiber for
future strength in our way of life and religion is appalling. You can
bet your life that the powers on the other side of the fence don't miss a
bet ever. I just hope that we don't wake up too late."
Reports from other areas show the De Malay chapters in and
around Fresno are in good. condition. A new growth in interest and
membership is being experienced in Los Angeles.
San Diego continues its fine program developed by the San Diego
County Masonic Association through its De Molay Committe e as
flreviously reported. One week in February is set aside by all Blue
Lodges at which time joint meetings are held with the different De
Malay chapters of the County. As usual, many hundreds are in attendance and witness the De Malay degrees. It is inspiring to be present
and behold the beautiful work and relationship between Masonry and
De Molay. The San Francisco -East Bay and Northern California chapters have continued to make good use of the De Malay Camp near
Placerville on the American River.
A ~trong new De Malay chapter is being developed in Stonestow n,
San Francisco.
We recommend the continuance of the committee and that the sum
of $750.00 be appropria ted to cover its necessary expenses for the
ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,

s.

KIMBALL
RAYMOND
THURMAN D. MAYERS
RAYV. SMITH
HENRY HONAKER
PETERS
FRANCIS
EDWIN R. BROOKS
CLARE NELSON
LESTER G. BRUNO

w.

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

334

335

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SOJOURNERS

We concede that degree work is heavy. We can also realize that
the Masters want to keep their degree work current. Yet. we must
remind those Masters that Masonry is built upon Fraternal Fellowship.
It is the cornerstone upon which Masonry will continue to flourish.
Surely. one meeting night during the year-set aside for Fraternal
intercours~is a small request compared to the results obtained. Many
of our busiest Lodges have participated in our program and have benefited much by their efforts. It is the recommendation of this committee
that the Most Worshipful Grand Master issue a communication to the
constituent Lodges. asking that they attempt to set aside on.e night
during the year to be designated as Sojourners Night. The Grand
Lodge Sojourners Committee will give whatever assistance it can for
making such an effort successful.
.
.
.
It is particularly gratifying to note that Shnnes and Consistones
are willing to help in our cause. It is well known that many Masons,
belonging to ·foreign jurisdktions. are foining or d~it~g into Co~­
sistories, Commanderies, and Shrines. Yet, they maintain membership
in their parent Blue Lodge. It will be the pleasure of the Sojourners
Committee to work with these bodies, which, we are sure, will produce
splendid results.
Expenditures of this committee during the past year amounted to
$54.97, which was used for postage and stationery. As we will continue to increase in activity during the next year, it is requested that
an appropriation of $100.00 be granted this committee for expenditures
during the (:oming year.
.
I would be remiss if I failed to commend the members of this committee for their efforts in making this year's program a success. Their
efforts have pfoduced excellent results from which Masonry in California
has benefited. It has been a pleasure to work with such Masons who
unsel:ftshly have contributed much of their time and energy toward
our cause.
It is the considered opinion of the members of this committee that
much work is yet to be accomplished. The need for increased activity
among Sojourning Masons, by this committee, is sufficient to recommend
to the Most Worshipful Grand Master, the continuance of the Sojourners Committee during the coming year.
Fraternally and Respectfully Submitted,
NADELL E. JENSEN, Chairman
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
It is with pleasure that I submit this report on the progress made by
the Grand Lodge Sojourners Committee during the past year.
Master Masons from all parts of North America--even from all
parts of the world-are coming to California in great numbers. They
are among the hundreds of thousands who are establishing their residence throughout this jurisdiction because of the great potential this
great State offers in employment, health, education, and recreational
advantages. This migration has created a · tremendous obligation upon
the State of California in furnishing facilities necessary for the welfare
of our new neighbors.
Masonry in California is no exception. The constituent Lodges
throughout the State are now experiencing the greatest number of
visitations, by Sojourning Masons, than anytime sim;e World War II.
A great majority of those Sojourning Masons are becoming permanent
residents of California. Many Masons, living in California but belonging to foreign jurisdictions, never visit or make themselves known to the
Lodges of the communities in which they live. It is, therefore, the
responsibility of this committee to endeavor to make contact with
Sojourning Masons through the constituent Lodges.
It is the opinion of this committee that 150,000 or more Sojourning
Masons are living within the confines of the Grand Lodge of California.
Many are known to our constituent Lodges but there are a great many
with whom contact has not been made. It is with those Masons that this
committee is mainly concerned.
Through the efforts of this committee, many Lodges throughout
the State are holding what are known as "Sojourners Nights." All
members of the Lodge are urged to invite any and all Sojourning Masons
to attend these meetings. The best results have been accomplished when
no degree work is held and the full evening is spent. making the visiting
brethren welcome. The Blue Lodge Sojourners Committee handles the
details of dinner and program. Those Lodges participating in such a
program find that Sojourning Masons become interested in entering in
Lodge functions. Many have expressed their apj>reciation to the Lodges
for the welcome they received and have expressed the desire to become
members through demits or dual membership. I am sure that the results
have been noticeable to the Grand Secretary by the number of affiliations
being processed.
However, we find some Masters are reluctant and even disinterested
in the efforts of this committee, in setting aside one night for the recognition of our Sojourning brethren. The excuse given is that too much
degree work prohibits such an arrangement. Some do not want to be
bothered and we have found that some Lodges have no Soj oumers
Committee appointed or functioning.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
T ·his year your Columbia Temple Committee has made several
strides forward and one backward.
The Temple has had a facial operation, thereby .making it. c~nf~rm
to the appearance of all the old buildings in Columbia, thus eliminating

336

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

the constant expression that it appeared to be too new for the surroundings in which it stood. T ·his was in accordance with the regulations
of the State Park Department after officials from· Sacramento approved
the finished color. We are of the opinion that it enhances the appearance of our Temple.
A bumper guard railing has been placed around the building thereby
eliminating damage to the outside walls and doors by cars parked while
attending the old theater opposite us. The stairs have been carpeted
and other minor improvements have been added.
The Committee wishes to thank the following lodges for their
donations: Golden Rule No. 479, Apron Cabinet and Ship in glass case:
Naval Lodge No. 87, Vallejo, four rod holders; Burbank Lodge No. 406,
Flag stand. These donations add to the attractiveness of the Temple.
We also wish to thank the Grand Secretary and his assistant for
their splendid co-operation during the past year, also our caretaker
Ray Irwin. Past Master and Secretary of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8, Sonora, for his ability to surmount obstacles such as the housing problems
of several hundred people when lodges visit and make use of the Temple,
some of which are on a regular annual basis.
It is our hope that more and more lodges will make the trip to the
Temple with candidates and make use of this wonderful Shrine to
Masons in California.
Respectfully submitted,
Columbia Temple Committee
JoHN A. DULL

ENFORCEMENT OF SECTION 127
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Publications supplements its report to this Grand
Lodge to bring to your attention the following matter regarding Al Bahr
Temple of the Shrine, an organization requiring Masonic affiliation as
a condition to membership.
This Grand Lodge by Section 127 of Ordinance has since 1954
prohibited the solicitation. sponsoring. inserting, placing, or printing
of advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication which
purports to be Masonic in name or character or which is published by
or for any body, order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as
a condition to membership.
After the opening of this Communication your Committee received
the accompanying football game program entitled Al Bahr 18th Annual
Shrine Charity Game and Pageantry. The program, carrying a frontispiece showing the Temple insignia, bearing a message from the Potentate including his picture in Shrine regalia, and with further pictures' of
Shrine officials in regalia, contains 52 pages, out of which 46 consist
in whole or in part of commercial advertisements and greetings.
We must report to you that at two meetings, one held by the Grand
Master and one held by this Committee, the heads of the Shrine Temples, including the present Potentate of Al Bahr, were fully informed
of the prohibition recited in Section 127. T·here can be no question but
that the officers here involved had full knowledge of our law.
The following resolution, which speaks for itself, has been prepared
in collaboration with and with the unanimous approval of both the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. and we herewith move its adoption:

CECIL MATHEWS
ARTHUR E. CuNK
CHESTER M. SMITH
G. C. McKINLEY
RICHARD MrITELSTAEDT

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

337

RESOLUTION
Whereas it has been reported to this Grand Lodge that a publication
under the auspices of Al Bahr Temple, Order of the Mystic Shrine, has
been issued with advertising paid for by the general public, and
Whereas if this be true the Masonic brethren members of this
organization who knew about it, took part in it, or connived to have it
done, are guilty of un-Masonic conduct, and further something should
be done about the organization itself.
Now, therefore, be it resolved:
1. That the incoming Grand Master direct the necessary things be
done to bring such offending brethren to trial for un-Masonic conduct.
2. That if in the discretion of the Grand Master under the circumstances developed it be necessary. that he by edict direct either or beth
of the following:
(a) That until his further order no Mason shall hereafter become
a member of said Al Bahr Temple.
(b) That until his further order no Mason shall continue to be a
member of said Al Bahr Temple.
Unanimously adopted.

338

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC
NATIONAL MEMORIAL

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RECOGNITION
OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In accord with convention, the Memorial Association convened in
the Auditorium of the Memorial at Alexandria, Virginia, on February
22. Contributions from the several jurisdictions totaled around
$172,000.00, of which California supplied $41,882.05-just under 25%
of the whole. The unenviable position of many jurisdictions with substantial membership respecting contributions would appear to warrant
a realistic reappraisal by them of the whole subject, with a view toward
an elevated standing.
In 1947 our Grand Lodge determined its proportion of the cost of
the George Washington Memorial to be $463,653.35. Our contributions
including the sum reported herein have amounted to $471,291.85. We
have therefore redeemed our pledge. However, our $1.00 assessment
per new member does and should continue in order to assist in defraying
excess costs and endowment and as a reminder that the Father of our
Country was an ornament to Freemasonry.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
State Chairman of California

339

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
During this year the only application for recognition came from the
Grand· Lodge of the Dominican Republic located at Ciudad, Trujillo.
Documentary evidence supplied was insufficient to enable determination
whether said Grand Lodge meets our tests for recognition. Our letter
a_ddressed to it seeking pertinent information remains unanswered. A
similar letter to the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Panama,
which is in amity with the applicant, likewise elicited no response. From
the record it appears that the applicant is recognized by the Grand
Lodges of Colorado, Kentucky. New York and Oregon. Brother Harry
W. Bundy, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Colorado, in response to our inquiry, stated that Colorado had recognized the applieant
in 1949 and quoted the report of the Committee made at that time. The
facts in the report <lo not meet our tests. The application will therefore
be held in abeyance for further consideration.
Masonry in Colombia has been suppressed since 1948 by the Government, which enjoys no wall separating church and state. Last March
we received a letter from the Grand Master of the National Serene
Grand Lodge of Cartegena, inquiring whether we still recognized it.
It was pleasing to reply that our Grand Lodge had been in uninterrupted friendly relationship with it since recognition was accorded in
1930. Let us hope that this inquiry indicates that the dark clouds of
oppression in Colombia are lifting.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
CHESTER H. MARLOWE
ARTHUR M. WARREN

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
REORGANIZATION OP TEMPLE PROGRAM

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to this Committee a resolution by Brother
Henry E. Lestmann, P.M. of Palestine Lodge No. 351, which proposes
in substance: ( 1) to limit the Memorial Building at California and Taylor Streets, San Francisco, to accommodations for Grand Lodge offices
and a public garage, ( 2) to sell the balance of the land already acquired,
( 3) to continue an annual per capita $1.00 assessment for the next ten
years and the collection of $9.00 from each new applicant for the degrees
toward a building fund, and ( 4) to build a new Auditorium Building
to seat 5,000 people, with a public garage underneath and offices and
lodge halls above, available for rental, on some other site-if possible

340

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

in the vicinity of Market Street "within easy walking distance of the
major downtown hotels."
This Committee deems it unnecessary to review in detail here the
reports and the action taken concerning the California Memorial Masonic Temple at the Grand Lodge Communications of 1953 and 1954.
Suffice it to say that the present plans for the location and the commencement of construction have been adopted only after mature consideration
of the duly authorized committees of Grand Lodge and the overwhelming approval of Grand Lodge itself: almost one and one-quarter million
dollars have been pledged on the expectation the Temple would be constructed on the already-acquired site in accordance with those plans. In
our opinion the proposed resolution, presented at this late date, is impractical and would be disastrous to the entire project of ever having
an adequate Grand Lodge Temple.
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
LESLIE E. Wooo
ELLSWORTH MEYER
AUGUSTUS H. ALLEN
BEN SORRELLS
HAROLD STELLING
ARTHUR M. WARREN

w.

The Grand Master put the vote but delayed announcing the re5ult
to give Brother Lestmann an opportunity to request a written ballot.
Brother Lestmann being joined by two other Brethren requesting the
written ballot, the Grand Master ordered it taken. The result of the
ballot showed 1385 ballots cast, of which two were blank, five void,
286 YES, and 1092 NO, and the Grand Master declared the resolution
lost.

TEMPLE ASSESSMENT
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes the resolution authorizing this Grand Lodge at their 106th
Annual Communication to levy an assessment on the lodges of $10.00
for each Master Mason carried on its rolls as of July 31, 1956, that
each lodge have credited against its total assessment the full amount
of all its contributions in the hands of the Grand Secretary prior to
July 1. 1956, that the difference between the amount of the total assessment and the amount of contributions received shall be due and payable
with the Annual Returns in five installments, commencing with the
Annual Returns of 1956, and that such portion of each annual installment as is not contributed voluntarily by the members shall be paid
from the lodge treasury.
Your Committee on Policy has thoroughly studied all the phases
of financing your Memorial Temple.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

341

It was their recommendation at the last Communication that the
financing continue on a voluntary basis for one year, and if at the end
of that period the desired results were not obtained, the assessment basis
should be considered.
We have obligated ourselves to build a Temple. The building of it
must be financed on a sound basis, and that responsibility should rightfully rest upon all of us.
Many lodges in this jurisdiction have entered wholeheartedly in the
program and the results in many instances have been outstanding, both
as to effort and results. However, some of the lodges have not met this
obligation, resulting in an inequity which is neither desired nor democratic.
We, .therefore, recommend that the resolution, as presented, calling
for an assessment of $10.00 per member, as prescribed, to finance the
building of our Memorial Temple, be adopted.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 332
The proposal to amend Section 332 of the Ordinances relating to
automatic expulsion by eliminating the words: "and be imprisoned in
pursuance thereof," has been referred to this Committee.
At the present time if a member of a Lodge is convicted of a crime
classified as a felony and is imprisoned therefor, it is required that
charges be preferred against him and if he does not request a trial, he
is automatically expelled: however, if such member were convicted of
the same crime, but was placed on probation without being incarcerated,
the Lodge cou,ld not use the procedure set out in Section 332. The
mere fact that the accused was not incarcerated would require a full
Masonic trial.
In other words, our present law saves the Lodge the expense and
details of a Masonic trial if the convicted Mason has been imprisoned,
but requires the expense and details if he has not been imprisoned. The
Masonic procedure in the two instances cited does not depend upon
the crime committed but the punishment meted out by the state trial court.
Your Committee feels that from the Masonic standpoint the important thing is the crime committed and not the punishment by the state,
that Lodges should not be put to the expense of a trial merely because
a state court has seen fit to extend clemency. Of course, you will
understand that under Section 332 the accused may request a Masonic
trial and thus one will be required. No change in that particular is
involved in ,this amendment.
Your Committee approves the policy involved in the proposed
amendment and I move that Section 332 of the Ordinances be amended
by striking from the first sentence thereof the words: "and be imprisoned in pursuance thereof."
See report of Committee on Jurisprudence for final action.

342

343

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESTORATION BY GRAND LODGE

converted to cash and which will not be subject to wide fluctuation,
deterioration or limitation as to convertibility.
The amendments would make it possible to invest the entire 100%
of Lodge or Grand Lodge funds in Savings and Loan or Building and
Loans shares or certificates.
This type of investment cannot be considered liquid as there is no
assurance that they can be readily converted to cash. An examination
of Savings and Loan practice and regulations will disclose that these
certificates or shares can only be redeemed as investments are collected
by the Association.
Saving and Loan Associations do not have the liquid reserve required by either the National or the State Bank Act. It is not generally
known that banks are restricted from lending for real estate purposes
not more than 60% of their total savings deposits.
The balance must be kept in highly liquid bonds or cash.
Saving and Loan Associations on the other hand can lend 100%
of their deposits in mortgages and in addition,make loans to the extent
of their capital as well. The national average is over 104% of deposits.
A tight money situation would make withdrawals almost impossible.
A distinction must also be made between savings deposits in Banks
and an investment in a Saving or Building and Loan Association.
A bank deposit establishes a creditor and debtor relationship between the depositor and the bank, and all deposited funds must be paid
out before the general creditors of the bank are paid.
An investment in a Building and Loan Association actually is a
purc'hase of shares in the Association even though it is expressed in
dollars. There is 110 deposit contract between the investor and the Association and a holder of these certificates is to all intents and puqJoses
a shareholder in the venture.
The Deposit Insurance feature of banks and Saving and Loan Associations likewise is not comparable.
In the event of bank failure the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation after an inventory period makes available to the depositor his entire
amount up to $10,000.
On the other hand a Savings and Loan Association must first be
found insolvent before it can be taken over. The inability to permit
withdrawals does not constitute insolvency as an association is only
required under the law to pay out that which it collects from investments and loans. If after final liquidation it is unable to make full payments, then and only then does the insurance feature come into play.
Real Estate loans are made for periods ranging from 10 to 25 years
and it is conceivable that a long waiting period would ensue before final
collection could be made. There is no requirement to pay interest after
demand for payment has been made by an investor and the payment of
interest is not provided for in the insurance coverage.

Your committee on Policy and General Purposes has carefully considered the resolution presented by Wm. Nankervis, Jr., P.M. of Oak
Grove Lodge No. 215, proposing changes to Sections 344 and 345 of
Ross Digest and seeking to provide a method by which Grand Lodge
may restore to membership those who have been suspended for nonpayment of dues. The sections cited pertain only to the restoration
of members suspended or expelled for unmasonic conduct: the question
of non-payment of dues being covered by an entirely separate section,
260, which provides for reinstatement by a two-thirds vote by ballot.
This provision appears to be adequate and it seems that if a suspended
member applies to his Lodge for reinstatement and is refused by onethird of the members present there are undoubtedly other good reasons
for the refusal.
It is the opinion of your Committee that this particular question
had best be lef.t with the individual Lodges for decision and it, therefore,
recommends that this resolution be not adopted.
See report of Committee on Jurisprudence for final action.

BUILDING AND LOAN INVESTMENTS
The Policy and General Purposes Committee has reviewed the resolution presented by M.W. John R. Moore proposing to amend Section
86-1 and Section 152.1 to enable investment to be made in investment
certificates or shares of certain types of Savings and Loan or Building
and Loan Associations.
This proposal has been jointly considered with the Investment Committee and we have also counseled with the Finance Committee.
' It is the considered opinion of these three Committees that the reso_
lution should not be adopted for the following reasons.
Section 86-1 and 152.1 provide that at least 40% of funds available
for investment must be invested as follows:
"A. Cash or bank accounts.
"B. Obligations of the United States or those for which the
faith and credit of the United States are .pledged to provide for
the payment of the interest and principal.
"C. Obligations of the State of California and its political
subdivisions, provided they were issued pursuant to law and that
the faith and credit of such state or municipal corporation or district are pledged for their payment.
,
"D. Such securities as are legal investments for California
savings Banks."
This is the so-called class one group.
The purposes of Section 86-1 and 152.1 are to restrict investments
in this category to highly liquid marketable issues which can be readily

344

PROCEED INGS OF THE

We are all, I am sure, familiar with the liquidation of the Pacific
State Savings and Loan Association which took many years to accomplish. A great number of desperat e people sold their passbooks at a ~e­
mendous discount in order to obtain funds. These passbooks fell into
the hands of speculators who reaped a harvest.
Our present investment program has been carefully drawn and any
radical deviation from our conservative practice should be rejected as
unsound in .principle.
Your Committee, therefore, with the concurrence of the Investment
Committee and with the approval of the Finance Committee, recommends that this resolution be disapproved.
Move adoption to get into records.
The Committee recommends a no vote.
See report of Committee on Jurisprudence for final action.

RAILR OAD EQUIP MENT TRUST ISSUES

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
The Policy and General Purposes Committee has had under consideration the resolution submitted by Brothers Pflueger, Siems, Harwell and Head who constitut e the members of the Investment Committee
of Grand Lodge.
The resolution proposes adding to Sections 86-2a and 152. l -2a the
following:
.
.
.
"except that this listing requirement shall not include railroaa
equipment trust issues."
Sections 86-2a and 152.1-2a restrict investme nt in this category to
evidences of indebtedness which are or will be fully listed and registered
on an Exchang e register with the Securities and Exchang e Commission
as a National Securities Exchang e.
Railroad Equipme nt Trust Certificates are fully secured evidences
of debt collateralized by Deeds of Trust or Mortgag es on equipment
used by transpor tation companies. Adequat e Sinking Funds, etc., are
provided to amortize such securities and they are regarded in inves~ent
circles as highly liquid and marketable. By general custom these issues
are very seldom listed on a National Security Exchang e.
_
The Finance Committee concurs with our Committee that the proposed amendments are desirable and we recommend approval of the
resolution.
M.W., I move the adoption of the resolution proposed to amend
Section 86-2a and 152.1-2a as outlined above.
The Policy and General Purposes Committee and the Finance Committee recommend an affirmative vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6vote.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

345

EXCUSING ASSIST ANT GRAN D LECTURERS

The Committee on Segregat ion has referred to the Committee on
Policy the recommendation of the Grand Master relative to excusing
Assistan t Grand Lecturers from compulsory attendan ce at Grand Lodge.
Article II, Section 3 of the Constitu tion of the Grand Lodge enumerates the officers who compose the Grand Lodge and all of our ritualistic ceremonies are written around this Section, namely, Opening , Closing, Installation and other ceremonies.
From 1934 until 1946 the Assistan t Grand Lecturers were not enumerated in Section 3 and were not required to participate in its ritualistic
ceremonies. In 1946 by action of the Grand Lodge the Assistan t Grand
Lecturers were made appointi ve officers and were added to the official
list. The reason given at the time was to establish their importance in
the Grand Lodge family.
J.t is the opinion of the Committee that all recognized officers of the
Grand Lodge should participa te in its official ceremonies. Further, there
is no good reason why some officers should be excused to the exclusion
of others.
We, therefore, recommend that the suggesti on of the Grand Master
in this particula r instance be not adopted.
A motion to adopt the recommendation of the Committee was defeated. The Deputy Grand Master declared the recommendation of the
Grand Master adopted.

COMM UNIST MEMBERSHIP

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes the resolution authorizing the question: "Are you now or have
you ever been a member of the Communist Party?" "lf so, in what
capacity?" to be added to the candidat e's application for Masonry .
Your Committee on Policy is fully aware of the constant threat to
our fraternit y by those who follow the Communistic doctrine and who
would destroy our Masonic principles. We are also in full accord with
the intent of these resolutions. It would seem logical that to ask a fair
question would receive a fair answer. However, history and experience
have shown that men of this characte r do not return a fair answer, but
do evade and deny their associations, and by their denial could well
keep us from learning the truth.
The investigating committee charged with the responsibility of thoroughly scrutinizing all phases pertainin g to an applican t's quali.8cations
would be grossly derelict of their duty if the subject contained in these
resolutions was not fully explored to their satisfaction.
It is the opinion of your Committee that the desired information
could best come by investigation rather than by the direct question.
We therefore recommend the resolutions be not adopted.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

346

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SUBVERSIVE MEMBERSHIP
A similar resolution has been referred to this Committee which would
change the wording, but not the intent, to read: "Are you now or have
you ever been a member of any organization termed subversive by the
·
Attorney General of the United States?''
It is the opinion of your Committee that the recommendation made
with reference to the previous resolution applies to this resolution with
full force.
A motion to adopt the above resolution was defeated.

Your Committee therefore moves the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Section 223-13 shall not apply to Masonic Clubs, Square Clubs and similar social organizations which
do not confer degrees and do not have formal initiation ceremonies.
Adopted.

FORFEITURE OF CONTRIBUTIO NS
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was referred the resolution of Brothers Nagle, Beard and Stringer of Utopia
Lodge No. 537 to amend Section 241 of our law to provide that when
a candidate fails to present himself properly qualified to receive the
second and third degrees within a period of five years after initiation,
the fees for the unconferred degrees together with all contributions required as a condition of presenting the original application may be declared forfeited, reports as follows: Applicants for the degrees of Masonry are accepted only after having been found to be in good bodily
health, of sound mind, and capable of learning the Art. Therefore, a
candidate furnished with suitable assistance should even under the most
extenuating circumstances make himself proficient enough to receive the
three degrees in the good and sufficient time of five years. Your Committee agrees with the proponents of the following resolution and recommends its adoption.
If a candidate does not present himself properly qualified for
the Second and Third Degrees within a period of five years from
the date of his initiation as an Entered Apprentice, the Master
shall direct the Secretary to forward to such candidate, by registered mail to his last known address, a notice advising him that
unless he shall present himself for advancement on or before a
specified date (at least sixty days in advance) his fees for the unconferred degrees, together with all contributions required as a
condition of presenting the original application for degrees, will
be declared forfeited.
The recommendation of the Committee was adopted as to .policy. No
enabling legislation was adopted: hence•. Section 241 remains unchanged.
iNTERPRETAT lON OF APPLIC.A TION QUESTION 13
Your Committee on Policy and General Purpose has given careful
consideration to the resolution presented by F. W. Nagle, P.M. and
Secretary, Arthur Beard, P.M. and Treasurer, and Everett L. Stringer,
Senior Warden of Utopia Lodge No. 537 and concurs in the opinions
expressed therein.

347

1956 COMMUNICAT ION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was referred a resolution to amend Section 31, Ross Digest, providing for the
107th Annual Communication to be held in the City of San Francisco.
commencing on the third Monday in September, reports as follows:
The City of San Francisco is the home of Grand Lodge. There is at
present only one place in San Francisco suitable for the Annual Communication, and that place available only during the third week in
September, 1956, your committee therefore recommends adoption of
the following resolution:
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. That Section 31 of
Ross Digest be amended by inserting at the end thereof the following: "providing further that the 107th Annual Communication shall be held in the City of San Francisco commencing on
the third Monday in September at 10 o'clock A.M."
See report of Committee on Jurisprudence for final action.
HAW AITAN INSPECTORAL DISTRICTS
AND ADMINISTRAT IVE OFFICER
There has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes two resolutions offered on behalf of two lodges in the Hawaiian
Islands. While resolutions should be introduced by members of Grand
Lodg~that is by persons and not by lodges, we have considered the
subject matter of the two resolutions and will obviate the technical
difficulty by a motion.
One resolution contemplates that four inspector districts be created,
one on each island upon which a lodge or lodges meet and that an administrative office for Hawaiian lodges be created. The other resolution
contemplates the establishment of a new officer to be known as a District
Deputy Grand Master.
We do not recommend the proposed policy of providing that there
shall be four districts in the Hawaiian Islands, one on each island having
lodges, for several reasons. At the present time our ordinances provide
that the Grand Master shall divide the jurisdiction into districts and
appoint an inspector for each. This provision permits ftexibility and
adjustments from time to time as conditions appear to warrant, hence

349

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

it would be possible to accomplish under our existing law this very
result if it appeared to be desirable.
Secondly. this proposal. if adopted would result in creating four
districts. one on the Island of Oahu on which Honolulu is located: this
district would consist of five lodges having a total membership of 2,487;
the other three districts, on the Islands of Kauai, Maui and Hawaii,
would consist of only one lodge each with memberships respectively
of 130, 224 and 226. Aside from this disparity, it may be observed that
in a district which consists of one lodge the benefits of fraternal intercourse and exchange of ideas are lost and any errors which might exist
are perpetuated .
The remaining element in the two resolutions is a proposal to create
an administrative office and administrative officer, or a District Deputy
Grand Master for the territory. No such office or officer has existed
heretofore in California Masonry except that our Inspectors do perform
some of the duties performed by a District Deputy Grand Master in
other jurisdictions.
Neither resolution specifies what duties the new officer would perform, except perhaps overseeing the two Inspectors in the Islands.
Inquiry of the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master and Grand Secretary has not produced any work for the proposed officer. Inquiry by
three members of this committee among members of Hawaiian lodges
indicates a division of opinion among our brethren in the Islands as to
the merits of the proposals.
Your committee does not approve the policy of creating such a new
office merely to be creating it. We appreciate the fact that our brethren
in the Islands, separated by more than two thousand miles of ocean from
the mainland, feel a degree of isolation: that some wiS'h for something
without being certain as to what would be satisfying but it does not
appear that creating a new office and officer unique to th~ teritory wo.uld
shorten the miles of ocean or bring closer contact than 1s now posSlble
.
through the two Inspectors.
To present the question and with a committee recommendation for a
negative vote, I move that an administrative officer to be known as the
District Deputy Grand Master for the Territory of Hawaii be appointed for the ensuing year by the Grand Master and that he perform
such duties as may be required of him by the Grand Master.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

ever, we have considered the substance of the measures as if they had
been properly presented.
Both relate to the so-called "ten-mile rule" applicable to the receiving
of applications for the degrees of Masonry. The normal territory jurisdiction of a lodge extends over the homes of all persons who reside
closer to that lodge than to any other. In addition, lodges wUhin the
corporate limits of any city or town have concurrent jurisdiction throughout that city or town. In addition, a lodge may receive applications
without a waiver from anyone who resides within ten miles from the
lodge hall.
One of the proposals seeks to increase the ten mile limit to twenty
miles and the other to increase it to twenty-five mile,s.
To illustrate, if these proposals were adopted a person residing as
far south as San Mateo or easterly in Oakland, Berkeley or Richmond
could apply to a San Francisco lodge without a waiver or a resident of
San Francisco could apply in Oakland, Berkeley or anywhere between
here and San Mateo. In the Los Angeles area, for example, the proposals would extend the jurisdiction of lodges in the Highland Park
area to include Pasadena, San Marino, Alhambra and Pomona valley
towns.
It has been made clear to your committee that the proposals have
been made because some brethren have felt that there have been iµstances
when a requested waiver was refused which should have been granted.
Even in these instances, we point out, there are two opinions among our
brethren-th e opinion of those who refused the waiver and those who
thought it should have been granted. But the proposals must be weighed
by their possible eff~ct on Masonry in general and not to correct isolated
instances. There is a way of correcting such instances, if they exist,
under existing law and reference will be made to it in a moment.
This committee does not approve the policy inherent in the proposals to enlarge the ten mile exception. All of us are aware of many
instances of applicants whose records are such as to cause the desire
to apply as far from home as possible. We must recognize also that
investigating committeemen are less likely to make an investigation in
an area twenty or twenty-flve miles distant and actually are less able
to ascertain the facts w'hen they make such a trip. It is not an exaggeration to surmise that the adoption of the proposals would lower the
quality of investigation and raise the number of undesirable admissions
in a larger number than the instances of arbitrary refusals of a waiver.
If there are instances of arbitrary action, section 217 of our ordinances authorizes a correction by resolution of the Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that
the ten mile exemption be not further extended but to present the question, I move that section 218 of the ordinances be amended by inserting
twenty miles in lieu of "ten miles" therein.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

348 •

20 MILE RADIUS
There has been referred to this committee two different resolutions
on the same general subject each of which bears a certiflcation that it
·
had been passed at a stated meeting of a lodge.
constitution
our
of
3
section
that
fact
the
to
again
attention
call
We
names persons and not lodges as members of this body and that proposed legislation should be offered by individuals and not lodges. How-

351

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODG!. OP CALIFORNIA

25 MILE RADIUS

DE MOLAY SPONSORSI-UP

The Committee on Policy and General ~urposes pointed out that
the defeat of the 20 mile proposal indicated the absence of any necessity
for taking action on the 25 mile proposal.

The following resolution presented by Brot'her Carl 0. Olsen, Past
Master of Fremont Lodge No. 497, has been referred to the .Committee
on Policy and General Purposes:
WHEREAS , The Order of De Molay for boys is an organization
of more than 200,000 active young men between the ages of 14 and 21;
and
WHEREA S, There are more than 1,700 chapters in the United
States and foreign countries: and
WHEREA S, Its senior members exceed more than one and a half
million. many of whom are now Master Masons; and
WHEREAS , This organization is dedicated essentially to building
good character and constructive leaders, what better group can be
helped than those clean thinking, young men dedicated to Love of God,
Love of home, and Love of country; and
WHEREA S. Our age 1has been built upon material things, we are
proud of our enormous wealth, giant plants of industry and networks
of transportati on, yet insufficient progress has been made toward help·
ing our young men on whom our future civilization will depeqd; and
WHEREA S. This organization is sponsored by Masonic lodges in
many s.t ates throughout our country; and
WHEREAS . During the past years the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of California has interested itself in the Order of De Molay
through the appointmen t of a Committee on De Molay whose purpose
is to spread among the fraternity. knowledge as to the meaning. aims
and accomplishments of the Order of De Molay; and
WHEREA S. Each year this De Molay Committee has reported well
and favorably on the progress of the Order of De Molay within the State
of California; and
·
WHEREAS . The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Caiifornia is
always anxious to live the joy of building a foundation, made of today's
young men for tomorrow's success; therefore, be it
Resolved, That this Most Worshipful \irand Lodge refer to a com·
mittee this resolution with the suggestion that investigation be made
regarding the possibility of improving the present status of De Molay
sponsorship within the State of California and ~nder the jurisdiction of
this Grand Lodge.
.
.J.t is the recommendation of this Committee that the matter be re•
£erred to the special Committee on De Molay. to be further studied dur·
ing the next year and its findings be reported to this Grand Lodge at
the next annual Communication.
Adopted.

350

75 YEAR BUTTON
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the resolution to amend Section 658 to provide a special button for those
brethren who have been members of the fraternity continuousl y for .
seventy.five years or more.
·
.
. We are entirely.in accord with the sentiment implied by the resolu~
tion and feel that no honor is too great to be paid to these distinguished
members.
Few men live to the age when the presentation of a seventy.five
-year button can be made, but when such a rare opportunity presents
itself to Grand Lodge, we should be prepared to give recognition to it.
We recommend that the Grand Lodge Secretary be empowered
and i~structed to have designed a special button appropriate for the
occasion.
The recommendation of the Committee was adopted as to policy. No
enabling legislation was adopted; hence, Section 658 remains unchanged.

AUTOMA TIC CONTINU ANCE OF DISPENS ATION

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has before it a
resolution to add to Section 114 the following provision:
"The granting of a charter automatically continues the dispen·
sation in full force until the constitution of the Lodge."
Under our present laws a lodge under dispensation surrenders its
books and records to the Grand Secretary on October 1st and remains
inactive until the Lodge is constituted, which may be as late as the
following January.
·
·
This cessation of meetings and Lodge activities works to the detri·
ment of a new Lodge at a time when every effort should be exerted in
preparation for a new year. The long wait could prove discouraging
to the members and much of the enthusiasm found in a new Lodge may
be lost.
Certainly no harm could accrue to Grand Lodge by the adoption
of the resolution, and a definite improvement would be made in the situa·
tion of the new Lodge.
·
Your Committee therefore recommends the adoption of the resolution.
The recommendation of the Committee was adopted as to policy. No
enabling legislation was adopted; hence, Section 114 remains unchanged.

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE NAME

The recommendation of the Grand Master to change the name of
the Grand Lodge to "The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California and Territory of Hawaii"
has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
We realize that the reason for the recommendation is to give greater
recognition to the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands and your Committee
agrees that more formal recognition than now exists should be accorded
these Lodges, but that ·the results desired would not be accomplished
by this method.
It has not been the practice of Grand Lodges to include in the
name of the Grand Lodge, all of the territory or area served by it;W ashington has chartered Lodges in the territory of Alaska-Massachusetts has chartered Lodges outside its normal boundaries, - the
United Grand Lodge of England has jurisdiction of several Lodges in
many parts of the world where no Grand Lodge exists--but none of
these Grand Lodges have changed their names to include all of the
territory served by them.
Masonry throughout the world recognizes the Lodges of the Islands
as constituents of the Grand Lodge of California, holding obedience
to this Grand Lodge. and we feel that changing the name of the Grand
Lodge would acomplish no good result.
We, therefore, recommend that the suggestion of the Grand Master
be not adopted.
A motion to adopt the recommendation of the Grand Master was defeated.

CAUFORNIA MASONIC CODE
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has reviewed
Recommendation No. 1 contained in the report of the Commission on
Revision of Ross Digest. It is the suggestion of the Commission that
publication of the California Masonic Code as described in their report
be authorized, upon approval thereof by the Grand Master, the Judge
Advocate and the Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence.
We recommend that publication be authorized under the conditions
specified.
Adopted.

PERMANENT CODE COMMISSION
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has reviewed
Recommendation No. 3 as contained in the report of the Commission
on Revision of Ross Digest. It is their suggestion that a permanent Code
Commission be set up and be charged with the duty of collecting all
cllanges in law made at each Communication and preparing such matter
for publication. Your Committee recommends the adoption of legislation establishing a Code Commission.
The report was adopted as to policy. The proposed Section 78.3 was
not adopted.

353

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SALE OF TEMPLE STOCK
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has before it a
resolution presented by the Memorial Building Committee proposing
that the sum of $254,877.50. now held by the Grand Lodge, which
represents the amount received from the sale of stock in the Masonic
Temple Association of California, be transferred from the General
Funds of the Grand Lodge to the building fund of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
This resolution is in accordance with the action taken by Grand
Lodge last year, when it approved the recommendation of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple Committee, listed in the report as recommendation No. 3, on page 181.
. The Committee on Policy and General Purposes approves the resolution and recommends its adoption.
Adopted.

GROUND BREAKING CEREMONY
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes presents the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
RESOLVED. That the entire ceremony of the ground breaking
for the Memorial Temple, including the splendid address of
the Grand Master, be incorporated in the 1955 Proceedings of
the Grand Lodge.
Adopted.
The complete record of the Ceremony is included in these Proceedi~gs immediate})' following the record of the Wednesday morning ses-

··

sion.

·

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the 'flr:Iost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED, That all decisions of the Grand Master be approved
except decisions numbered 68, 70, 71, 72, the last paragraph of 42
the last ~~agraph of 43 which have been withdrawn by him; except,
also. dec1s1ons numbered 21 and 39 on which special reports have been
made.
Respectfully submitted,

and

JOHN R. MOORE
OSCAR LAWLER
SHENK
JOHN
ARTHUR PAULSEN

w.

Lams c. DRAPEAU

WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
CARL H. ALLEN
JOHN D. WEBSTER

Adopted.

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

355

DE'CISION NO. 21

DECISION NO. 39

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Decision No. 21
of the Grand Master which was as follows:
W·here an applicant stated in answer to question 6 of the
application that he had not resided in California for the requisite
time. but nevertheless is accepted, elected and receives the 1°.
following which on objection made the applicant is stopped, a
claim being made, however, substantiated by evidence that the
applicant did not have his rights under Ross Digest 238, 239 and
240, what procedure should be followed when the applicant now
desires to proceed? What does he do and what does the Lodge
do?
I have reached the following conclusions:
1. Residence in Masonry must be actual, rather than constructive ( R.D. 684). Therefore, applicant's original petition
ruled out the possibility of residence. The Victorville Lodge overlooked this fact and accepted applicant.
2. But that Lodge having assumed jurisdiction, applicant's
lack of residence does not affect his present status as an Entered
A·pprentice (R.D. 691 ).
3. The Lodge, after committee recommendation, apparently
voted to sustain the objection (Oct. 6, 1946). The fact that the
subject was denied certain of his rights under R.D. Sec. 238-9-40
should certainly require a proper reconsideration by the Lodge,
if the subject so desires or so requests.
4. If the applicant does not care to question the procedure,
however, but accepts the action of the Lodge sustaining the objection, he now has two alternatives:
(a) He may submit his petition with fee to Victorville Lodge.
( b) He may submit his regular petition to the Lodge where he
presently resides (with fee) and request them to obtain consent and waiver of jurisdiction from Victorville Lodge.
( c) These petitions must be processed and voted on in the regular manner (unanimous).
See Sections 818-819, Ross Digest.
The Committee recommends approval of the above Decision with
conclusion 3 being modified as follows:
"The Lodge, after committee recommendation, apparently
voted to sustain the objection (Oct. 6, 1946). The fact that the
subject was denied certain of his rights under R.D. Sec. 238-9-40,
should certainly require a proper reconsideration by the .Lodge,
if the subject so desires or so requests, after being so notified."
and with the understanding by the Committee that the objection was
made on the grounds of un-Masonic conduct.
Adopted.

Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which has been referred Grand
Master's Decision No. 39, permitting lodges and concordant bodies
to publish. joint bulletins without advertising, beg leave to report as
follows: Like the Grand Master we can see no objection to this practice
but its adoption should not be construed to expand our present definitio~
of conco~dant bodies as bodies of the York and Scottish Rites only.
Adopted.

SPECIAL ELECTION AT STATED MEETING
The r.esolution of Brother Joe L Shell, P.M. of San Diego No. 35
and .Chairman of the Committee on Grievances, to permit a special
meeting to ~lect trial commissioners to ' be held in conjunction with a
stated meeting, appears to have great merit and should be adopted.
We therefore present the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Section 295 of Ross Digest be amended
by inserting at the end thereof, the following:
"Such special meeting may be held on the same date as
and in conjunction with a stated meeting."
Adopted. 5/6 vote.
The adoption of the above amendment to Section 295 is made upon
the basis of the withdrawal of the proposed amendment to Section 120.

NOMINATION OF COMMISSIONERS
Near the end of our last Annual Communication, amid a modicum
of confusion, a resolution, which we were erroneously informed had the
approval of the Committee on Grievances, came before this Committee
and upon our recommendation was adopted. Said resolution reversed
the decision of Grand Master Johnson rendered in 1892 (Sec. 974
Ross Digest) which permitted nomination of trial commissioners. To
rectify t~e error Brother Joe.L. Shell, P.M., San Diego Lodge No. 35
and Chairman of the Committee on Grievances has presented a resolution to permit nomination of trial commissioners through amendment
of our Ordinances.
Since Brother Shell's resolution would restore longstanding law
and again enable election of trial commissioners more ·expeditiously,
we find ourselves in •hearty accord.
·
We, therefore, present the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That Section 299 of Ross Digest be amended by
insertion at the end thereof the following:
"Nominations of said commissioners may be made by
members who are present at said meeting."
Adopted. 5/6 vote.

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SERVICE OF SUMMONS
The resolution of Brother Alfred F. Breslauer, P.M., No. 344, seeks
to amend the form (Sec. 300 Ross Digest) on which minutes of special
meeting relating to election of trial commissioners are reported by inserting the words "served upon" in place of the words "trasmitted to"
respecting the summons.
The form in question is of particular interest to the Committee on
Grievances and while we believe that committee looks to substance
( Sec. 308 of Ross Digest) instead of form, we see no objection to the
change.
We therefore present the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Sec. 300 of Ross Digest be amended by inserting the words "served upon" in lieu of the words "transmitted
to" appearing in the 28th line thereof.
Adopted. 5/6 vote.

1956 COMMUNICATION
This report concerns Resolution of the Grand Secretary relating to
change of meeting date of Grand Lodge. We therefore, present the
following Resolution:
RESOLVED: That Section 31 of Ross Digest be amended by
striking the words:
"provided further that the 106th Annual Communication
shall be held in the City of San Francisco commencing on
the fourth Monday of October at 10:00 a.m." and inserting
in lieu thereof the following:
"provided further that the 107th Annual Communication
shall be held in the City of San Francisco commencing on
the third Monday in September at 10:00 o'clock A.M.''
Adopted. 5/6 vote.

APPEAL BY RALPH A. BURKE
Section 260 of our Ordinances provides, among other things, that:
"Should any member suspended for non-payment of dues neglect for
the period of two years to pay said dues or to have the same remitted
by his Lodge, said member shall not be restored except by a two-thirds,
vote by ballot of all the members present * * * ."
In 1933, presumably following the procedure prescribed in sections
257-258 of our Ordinances, Chico Lodge No. 111 suspended Ralph A.
Burke from all rights and privileges of Masonry, for non-payment of
dues.
Twelve years later (in October, 1945) Burke's application for
restoration was rejected by unanimous ballot;
After more than eight years he again applied for restoration and
was similarly rejected in April, 1954;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

357

In April, 1955, a fourth application for restoration was made which
was likewise rejected on May 10, 1955.
July 31, 1955, Burke filed with the Grand Secretary a paper designated as an "appeal" wherein he asks that the Lodge's action of May
l 0, 1955, be reversed and that he be restored to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry, including rights as a member and Past Master
of Chico Lodge No. 111.
While characterized as an "appeal" the document actually seeks
revocation by the Grand Lodge of the ballot of the Lodge on Burke's
application for restoration.
No irregularity, fraud or other misconduct being claimed, full faith
and credit must be given to the Lodge's action as shown by the record,
and your committee recommends that the petition be denied.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOLVED: That the foregoing described action on the part
of Chico Lodge No. 111 be approved and that the application
of Ralph A. Burke to reverse said action and be restored to all the
rights and privileges of Masonry be denied.
Adopted.

RESTORATION BY GRAND LODGE
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has carefully and thoroughly
considered the proposed amendments to Section 344 and 345 of Ross
Digest, and concedes that they possess substantial logical merit. Nevertheless, it is the unanimous opinion of your Committee that for the
following reasons, the proposed amendments be not adopted:
1. They will take away from the constituent lodges a portion of the
jurisdiction and control they have traditionally exercised over
their members in the most important area of dues and lodge
financing.
2. They are likely to result in a loss of income to the constituenl
Lodges. Upon restoration by Grand Lodge, the brother becomes
a Mason in good standing, entitled to all the rights and privileges
of Masonry except those which are incident to membership in a
particular Lodge ( R.D. 926), and the brother's former Lodge
is left with no Masonic procedure, for the collection of delinquent
dues (R.D. 535).
3. The number of suspensions for non~payment of dues greatly
exceeds the number of suspensions and expulsions for unMasonk
conduct. The proposed amendments, therefore, would unlock
and unleash upon Grand Lodge a veritable Pandora's Box of
troubles and burdens in the form of ·petitions for restoration on
the part of brothers whose petitions for good cause have been
denied by their own Lodges. The constituent Lodges are in a

. 358 ·

359

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

better position to determine the merits of a petition for restoration than is Grand ·Lodge.
For the foregoing reasons, it is your Committee's opinion that the
practical detriments, which will surely result from the proposed amendments, far outweigh the .theoretical benefits which might possibly be
derived.
We, therefore, recommend that the Resolution be not adopted.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

Your committee. in 1954, recommended, and the Grand Lodge
adopted, resolution continuing the suspension in effect until this ( 1955)
Communication.
The suspended Master has not accounted, and has not asked for
hearing on the suspension or for any review thheof.
A successor Master was regularly installed during the suspension.
We cannot permit the matter to pass without calling attention
to the suspended Master's persistent failure to comply with his obligation to account, and to the flaunting by him of orders from both the
Inspector and the Grand Master with reference thereto. Failure of
the Lodge to take action in the premises is unexplained.
We recommend that the Lodge be directed to forthwith report 'to
the incoming Grand Master, and that the latter be authorized to direct
such action as the condition may warrant.
Adopted.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 175
In order to clarify the situation, when the institution of a new lodge
does not occur until after the expiration of the period for which the
petitioning members have paid dues, your committee recommends that
Section 175 be amended to read as follows:
Section 175. Upon the granting by the Grand Master of a dispensation for the formation of a new Lodge the membership of
any signer of the petition therefor in any other Lodge in this
jurisdiction, from which he has not already withdrawn, shall
ipso facto cease as of the date of institution: however, he shall
nevertheless be liable for and shall pay to such Lodge such unpaid dues as may have accrued between the date of his certificate
of standing in such Lodge and the date of the instituting of the
new Lodge.
·
Adopted. 5/6 vote.

1954 DECISION NO. 21 BY GRAND MASTER HARWELL
By his Decision No. 21, the Grand Master in 1954 (Proceedings,
page 84) answered "Yes" to the question, "Must the Charity Committee,
consisting of the Master and Wardens of the Lodge, report at stated
meetings payments made since the last stated meeting?" In connection
therewith, he reported suspension, until the 1954 Communication, of
the Master of the Lodge, as authorized by Subdivision 8, Section 34 of
our Ordinances.
Notwithstanding repeated urging by the Inspector and direction
by the Grand Master (with warnings as to the consequences of recalcitrancy) that he do so, the Master of the Lodge had failed and refused
to account for more than $4,000 of Lodge funds entrusted to him as a
member of the Charity Committee.
Your Committee made informal inquiry into the matter during the
1954 Communication. The inquiry was not participated in by the suspended Master and had none of the attributes of a hearing. Therefrom
it appeared that Lodge officers, the Inspector and the Grand Master
had discussed the matter with the Master before his suspension and
that he was fully aware of the seriousness of his delinquency and of
the consequences of recalcitrancy.

1

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 332
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which has been referred resolution offered by Wm. T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master of University Lodge
No. 394, providing that the following language in Section 332 of the
Ordinances be struck out, "and be imprisoned in pursuance thereof,"
begs to report as follows:
The language used in the Ordinance was designed to protect the
individual Mason from the consequences of conviction of a felony in
certain cases. For example, if this amendment were adopted, one guilty
of negligent homicide could be summarily expelled although no moral
turpitude was involved.
Therefore, your Committee is of the opinion that this would go too
far and that the proposed amendment should not be adopted.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS COMMITTEE
In pursuance of the recommendation of the Grand Master to include the Committee on Public Schools as a standing Committee, we
present ·the following resolution:
RESOLVED. That Section 70 of Ross Digest be amended
by inserting therein on line 3 between the word "Financing"
and the word "to" the following:
"on Public Schools"
The Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance reported their concurrence.
Unanimously adopted.

360

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALTER NATE COMM ISSION ERS

A Resolution has been proposed to add a new section to the Ross
Digest to read as follows:
Alternat e Commissioners.
Section 299 (a) . Whenev er it shall appear likely, that the trial
cannot be concluded in one day, the Lodge may in the same manner and
at the same time elect two Alternat e Commissioners, who shall attend
througho ut the trial as members of the Commission, except that they
shall not be entitled to vote, unless called to act in lieu of a Commissioner,
as hereinaf ter provided. The Alternat e Commissioner, who shall have
received the larger number of votes, shall be called first to replace a
Commissioner who may become disqualified to act as such during the
trial. In the event .that both Alternat es shall have received the same
number of votes, the Master shall decide who will be called first. An
Alternat e Commissioner may not replace a disqualified Commissioner,
unless he shall have been present at all times during the trial.
This proposal is designed to apply to Masonic trial procedure, provisions similar to those used in our Trial Courts in jury cases. While
it is probable that the principal involved in this proposed amendment
has merit, there are certain features which warrant further consideration
of its procedural effects. The Committee on Grievances is working
on a proposed revision of our whole trial procedur e and it is the opinion
of the Committee on Jurisprudence that it would be better to carry out
the revision as a whole than to amend our procedur e piecemeal at this
time. We, therefore, recommend that the proponen ts of the measure
present their views to the Committee on Grievances and that the pr~­
posed amendment be not adopted at this time.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated .

CERTIF IED MAIL

The Grand Master in Decision No. 62 has ruled that service by
certified mail is not now permissible under Section 257 and Section 308
of the Ordinanc es. This Committee has concurre d in that Decision.
He has also recommended that said Section be amended to make the
use of certified mail deliverable to the addresse e only permissible. We.
therefore. recommend that Section 257 of the Ordinan ces be amended
to read as follows:
Sec. 257. In case any member shall have refused or neglected to
pay his regular dues during a period of twelve months, the Secretary shall notify him, either by registere d letter or certified
mail, deliverable to addresse e only, deposited in the U. S. Post
Office addresse d to him at his last known address, or by actual
service of notice, duly certified by the Tiler, that unless at the
next stated meeting either his dues be paid, or sickness or in·
ability to pay be shown as the cause of such refusal or neglect,
he will be suspende d from all rights and privileges of Masonry.

361

The Committee further recommends that Section 308 of the Ordinances be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 308. If the accused be within the jurisdiction of the Lodge,
the summons and copy of the charges shall be issued and served
upon the accused at least ten days prior to the day appointed for
the trial, and shall be served personally by the Tiler or some other
member of the Lodge authorized by the Master for that purpose,
or shall be left at his ordinary residence or place of business. If
he be without the said jurisdiction, but within the State, and his
· residence be known, they shall be issued and served upon the accused at least thirty days before the day of the trial. and shall
be forwarde d to his address by the Secretar y, by mail or other
usual mode of conveyance, and service shall be complete from
and after depositing the same in the mail upon due proof thereof.
If he be without the State, and his residence be known, they shall
be issued and served upon the accused at least ninety days before the trial, by the Secretar y forwardi ng the same to his address by certified mail deliverable to the addresse e only or United
States mail with •postage thereon prepaid, which shall be sufficient
service: or substitut ed service may be made by the Secretar y
forwarding such summons and copy of the charges by registered
mail addresse d to the accused at his actual or last known place of
residence, provided the return receipt shows the genuine signature of the accused. If his address be unknown, the Master shall
order the trial to proceed at once upon the testimony, ex parte.
In the event the trial shall be held ex parte, the record shall con.tain a full !l,tatement of the facts constituting due diligence in the
effort to locate the accused.
Adopted . 5/6 vote.

ROSS DIGEST AMEN DMEN TS

Your Committee to which was referred the matter of proposed
amendments of Ross Digest submitted by the Commission on Revision
reports as follows:
That sections of Ross Digest be amended as follows:
1. That Sec. 205.4th be amended by adding at the end thereof the
words
"All entries shall be in ink or other permane nt writing."
2. That Sec. 480 relating to gram.mar schools be repealed.
3. That Paragrap h "Second " of Sec. 796, Page 395, be repealed.
4. That a new section be added reading as follows:
"Sec. 123.l Smoking is forbidden in the Lodge Room at all
times when the Lodge is in session."
5. That Sec. 452 be repealed.
6. That Sec. 749 be repealed.
Adopted . 5/6 vote.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

362

REPEAL OF SECTION 536
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVED:
That Section 536 of Ross Digest be repealed.
Reason:
This section relates to decisions and resolutions respecting Life Membership embracing the period from 1922
to 1939. The law and regulations therein referred to have
become obsolete. Our current law on the subject is now
embodied in Sections 21-4th, 150, 153, 160, 161, 202-7th,
253, 253 (a) and 253 ( b) of Ross Digest.
Adopted. · 5/6 vote.

. REPEAL OF SECTION 494(h)
We ;present the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Section 494(b) of Ross Digest be repealed.
Reason: Decision by Grand Master Harwell No. 14, page 81 of
1954 Proceedings, relating to Question 13 of Sec. 223, a~?pted by Grand
Lodge. 1954 Proceedings page 264, and the current decisions Nos. 2 and
3 of Grand Master Clausen reverse this section in question.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

.

DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

Your Committee-on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year, including his action on applications for ~egr~es from memb.ers of the
Armed Forces lacking the residence qualifications, and also his approval
of Resolutions relative to Life Memberships and miscellaneous matters.
We find that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of the law. We.
therefore, recommend that the acts of the Grand Master therein be
approved.
Adopted.

BUILDING AND LOAN INVESTMENTS
The Resolution presented by Brother John R. Moore, Past Master
of Meridian Lodge No. 667, reads as follows:
RESOLVED: That Ross Digest be amended by inserting the language quoted below as subparagraph E under subsection 1 of Sec. 86
and 1as subparagraph ( e) under ·subsection 1 of Sec. 152.1 :
.
"Investment certificates issued by a building and loan association or a savings and loan association organized and existing
under the laws of the State of California which is an insured
institution as defined by Title IV of the National Housing Act,
and shares issued by any such association which issues no invest-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

363

ment ·certificates and which is an insured institution as defined by
said Title IV, and shares issued by any federal savings and loan
association; but in the ·case of each association only to the extent
that such investment certificates or shares are insured by the
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation."
This resolution has merit and is approved for the following reasons:
Under our existing law as recently construed by our Grand Master
neither shares nor certificates issued by state or federal building or
savings and loan associations are eligible for investment of Lodge funds,
or Grand Lodge funds.
This amendment would therefore eliminate the discrimination which
now exists against the securities of such state and federal associations.
All federal savings and loan associations are insured institutions .
Since the amendment is limited to securities issued by insured institutions and to the types of securities which are insured, the suggested
amendment is conservative in its character.
The Grand Master put the vote but delayed announcing the result
pending the taking of a rising vote. On completion of the rising vote,
the Grand Master declared that a majority of the votes cast favored the
resolution, but the necessary 5/6 vote had not been passed in favor
thereof. He declared the resolution rejected at this Communication of
Grand Lodge, but in accordance with Section 28 of the Constitution,
held over to be again voted on at the 1956 Communication.
1

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 78
At the request of the Committee on Lodge Financing, we present the
following resolution:
RESOLVED: That a new paragraph be inserted under Section 78,
Ross Digest, reading as follows:
"4. Personal Property is to be acquired at a value in excess
of $5,000.00."
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.
Several of the recommendations made by the Committees on Policy
and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence, respectively, made jointly
in concurrence with a resolution at the time of presentation, are not
included in the items separately tabulated as reports of these Committees.
At 5:10 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 A.M. Friday.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

364

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, FRIDAY. OCTOBER 28. 1955
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M .. the Grand Master pre..
siding. The Grand Chaplain invoked the blessing of God. The minutes
of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday were read and ap ...
proved.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes pointed out that
there still remained one item upon which they should report. The
Comniittee requested permission to make this report prior to the holding
of the annual election.
A motion to postpone the election pending the completion of un ...
finished business was unanimously carried.

MEMORIAL TEMPLE RECOMMENDATION NO. 5
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported that the
Recommendation No. 5 contained in the report of the Masonic Me..
morial Temple Committee, referred to the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, had received their careful consideration. They felt
that the requested amendment was advisable on the basis of the reason ..
ing advanced by the Memorial Temple Committee, and, therefore, pro..
posed the following resolution and recommended its adoption:
"RESOLVED, That the policy adopted in 1953 be reaffirmed
with an addition so that the amended statement thereof will read:
'That the architect be instructed to complete detailed spectftca...
tions and drawings preparatory to calling for bids from not less
than 5 prime contractors, and bids to be opened in public; or as
an alternative, the Committee may through the architect negotiate
with one or more general contractors for a contract price based
on a fixed fee with a guaranteed maximum cost'."
Adopted
MEMORIAL TEMPLE ENDORSEMENT
Several of the brethren present expressed the hope that the defeat
of the proposed assessment plan would act as an encouragement, rather
than as a determent, to the prompt accumulation of contributions for
the Memorial Temple fund. The sentiment was effectively indicated with
the ·presentation of the following resolution:
RESOLVED. That the representatives of the Lodges, assembled
at the 106th Annual Communication, go on record as encouraging
the brethren to continue with full energy the program of voluntary
contributions to the Memorial Temple Fund.
Unanimously adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

365

CLOSING COMMENTS OF PAST GRAND MASTER SIEMS
.The succ~ion of events relative to the Memorial Temple program
which transpired on Thursday and Friday of the Communication led the
Chairman of the Memorial Temple Committee, P.G.M. Edward H.
Siems, to address those in attendance at the Communication as the final
procedure prior to the Annual Election of Officers.
Brother Siems expressed the appreciation of his Committee for the
confidence in them and the determination to hasten the successful com ..
pletion of the assigned task as evidenced by legislation adopted and the
resolution of intent unanimously endorsed at this dosing session. He
summarized the achievements as follows:
The representatives of lodges refused to adopt legislation counter..
acting the previously formulated plans and thereby again indicated their
confidence in the Committee and their intent to press forward for com..
pletion of the Temple.
Transfer of the proceeds from the sale of the stock in the temple at
25 Van Ness Avenue was authorized to augment the Memorial Temple
Funds.
By ac?on of the representatives. lodges are permitted to use their
funds ~or completion of Memorial Temple quota. The lodge funds so
transmitted are to be charged against the percentage available for re..
freshment and entertainment expenditures.
The representatives of the lodges unanimously approved a resolution
e~cou~aging prompt and generous participation in the voluntary con..
tribution of funds to assure the financing of the Temple at minimum
possible cost .•
. Th~ limitations under which contracts could be let were ampli.8ed
m the mterest of more rapid and more economical construction should
the Committee finally decide that by doing so that objective would be..
come a reality.
Ground for the building was broken and thus the first steps toward
actual construction are under way.
. The futur~ success ~est~d in the hands of the brethren and they had
evidenced their determmabon to meet their responsibility promptly and
completely.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

366

367

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

ANNUA L ELECTI ON
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The R. W. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Loyalty Lodge No. 529, was elected Grand Master.
The R. V'{. L. Harold Anderson, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Leo E. Anderson, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Phil N. Myers, McCloud Lodge No. 430, was elected Junior
Grand Warden.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth Lod·ge
No. 560, was re-elected Grand Treasurer .
·' The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
·
No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
571,
No.
Lodge
Shattuck
K.
The V. W. Elbert W. Davis, Francis
.
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Judge Advocate, The M. W. Henry C. Clausen, Junior Past Grand
Master, Ingleside Lodge No. 630.
Grand Chaplain, Robert E. Burns, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell, North Butte Lodge
No. 230: Ralph M. Foote, Valley Lodge No. 135: Arthur J. Kahn,
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462: Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas Lodge No.
466; Donald G. Campbell, Granada Lodge No. 608: Clark H. Shaw,
Long Beach Lodge No. 327.
Grand Orator, W ake6eld Taylor, Martinez Lodge No. 41.
Assistant Grand Treasurer , Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco
Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal, William E. Rife, Lemon Grove LOdge No. 736.
Grand Standard Bearer, Russell DeForest, Reading Lodge No. 254.
Grand Sword Bearer, George W. Mann, Golden State Lodge No.
358.
Grand Bible Bearer, Finis N. Roberts, Winnedum ah Lodge No. 287.
Senior Grand Deacon, Ralph W. Cutler, South Pasadena Lodge
No. 367.
Junior Grand Deacon, George H. Stewart, Taft Lodge No. 516.
Senior Grand Steward •. Sam E. Leddell, Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674.

Junior Grand Steward, Milton E. Ballengee, Honolulu Lodge No.
409.
Grand Pursuivant, David Wright, Menlo Park Lodge No. 651. ·
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, ·California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, Alvin A. Horwege, Woodstoc k Lodge No. 491.
The Grand Secretary announced the appointment by the Grand
Master-elect of Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams and of
Myron E. Smith as Trustees of the Masonic Homes for terms of three
years each.
At 12:00 o'clock noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :45 P.M.

368

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTERNO ON SESSION -Friday, October 28, 1955
At 1 :45 P.M. Grand Lodge reassembled for purposes of Installation.

INSTALL ATION OF OFFICERS
The Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master, acted
as Master of Ceremonies, and the officers, elected and appointed, were
installed by the retiring Grand Master in ample form.
The newly installed Grand Master invested •his predecessor with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Charles Albert Adams insignia was tr an sferred from the retiring to the incumbent Orand Master, and the other chair officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The J. Everett Houser lapel pin was transferred from the retiring to
the incumbent Orator.
The Most Worshipful Lloyd E: Wilson, Grand Secretary, invested
the retiring Grand Master with the apron of a Past Grand Master,
Worshipful Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary, on be'half
of the members of Grand Lodge, presented a gift to Mrs. Henry C.
Clausen, and it was accepted by the Junior Past Grand Master in her
behalf.
At 3: 15 P .M .. all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

~rl~;.

~~·

G<aM M~te'

SPECIA L APPEND IX

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IPO

RNI A

369

SP EC IA L AP PE ND IX
CO NT EN TS
Pag e
370
·············.··········-···························~·
Budget for 19SS-S6..............'···········
··· 372
...........................................•·-········
Audit of Annual Ret urn s-1 955
374
.........•..- ..........................................
Gra nd Lodge Audit. ........................
386
.....................................................
Masonic Homes Audit.....................
414
......................................................
Memorial Temple Audit..................
Statistical:

...................................•...·-········ 417
Details of Masonic Homes............
Covina .............. ·-········-··· 435
Number of Residents, Decoto and
ina........................................ 435
Per Cap ita Cos t Decoto and Cov
.............................................. 436
Contributions to Special Funds..

l'ROCEED lNGS OF THE

370

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

371

Appropr iations

BUDG ET FOR 1955-1956
Adminis trative and Office

Salaries -··-···-·---·--··--·-··-····-·····-··-······················-····-·····-.$ 43, 780.00

·
Activities Committee ·····-····- ··-····-"
...........___.._____
Board of
Charter s Committee
_ _. __
Columbia Temple ................................................ _____ .. ,. ___ ., __ , __ ,.,. ___ ....__
Constitution Month .................................................................................. _,, .............. _
Correspondence Committee ........................................................ ____ ., _____., ____________.-...,,

=-=-~~====~==~~~=~~=~~~~==~=~~~~ 1,250.00

~-"-

..................... ....._ _ _ _ _ _ ,._,... _.,. __ ,. __

• ____________ _ • _ _ _ _ _ _ .... _ ..............

¥' ... ..

4,500.00

1,000.00

Rent ..·-··········································-··············-·················································
Audit ·······························-················-·························-··································
Grand Treasur er ·····························································-············-···············
Postage and ~--··--··--··--····-··········-··-··················-··-·-············

7,750.00

Telephone and Telegra ph ...·-······-····-····-····-··-·-···········-············-·······Social Security and Unempl oyment Taxes: .. ·-·················-···················

1,800.00
1,250.00

10,000.00

Investm ent Counsel ···············-····································································
Retirem ent Plan-G rand Lodge Employees................................,.........

500.00
4,000.00

250.00

2,500.00
550.00
2,500.00

TOTAL -·-·-·---··-····-----···-··-··-··-··-··-·--·-·-····-..$ 64,630.00

..__

....,.~

2,500.00
750.00
6,000.00

500.00
De Molay Conunittee......·-··-··················-····················-····-···-·-··-····-···
Employment Bureaus
15,450.00
·······
·····--····-··························-··········-···········-········

1,000.00
1,800.00

Memorial Temple ................................................. ............................................................................................. ........... 15,000.00
Committee on Public Schook .···----····--····-······--··········-·-...... ........... _..................... 4,000.00
._

)

General Expense s
• ·--~--·---·--···· ..·--·-...$ 16,000.00
Annual Communication - - · +H•
Conferences --·-······--··-·····-··---··-··-·~·---····-····-··-······-··-······· 4,500.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense s.................... ·-············-············· 7,500.00
650.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler••·-··-··········-··························-···············
10,000.00
Grand Master's Travel, Secretar ial and Miscellaneous Expense......

Investm ent Counsel for Lodg~·····-··--···-···-·······-·············-·················
Workme n's Compensation Insuranc e for Lodges................... ·-············

4,000.00
8,500.00

Portrait of Grand Master W--·-··--··-·-··-···················-·-··············

1,850.00

Represe ntatives ' Mileage ·······················-····-·····-·-··················-··············· 30,000.00
Printing -----····-- -···-······- ····--······ -··-········ ····-······· ·-·········· ············

~~k....._.

· 20,000.00

Fidelity Bond, Grand Lodge and Lodges (3 year premium)..............
Ritualis tic Expenses:
Grand Lecture r -··-·-·· -···-··- ··--··-- ········-···-·······················
Inspectors' Aprons and Statione ry......................·-············-······-·······

3,000.00
600.00
1,500.00

Ritual Committee and
Inspectors' Conference and Travel Expense.............................. 11,500.00
750.00
Relief Fund, Grand Master..........·-····-··········-··········-·······························
Retirem ent Pay ·········-··-····-····-········-·-··--······-·-·--······-··········-·····
Veteran Button s---···-··--········-····----···-······-······-··-··-·················Supplie s and MisceJJaneous........................................................................

900.00

3,000.00
3,700.00

TOTAL ----..: .----·- --··--- ···-··- -·---.t llt,95 0.00

Board of Relief Reimbu rsement Sojourn ers....-·····-·········-··················
Committee on Conunerciallsni........_._ .........·-···············-·········-·············Sojourn ers Committee .............................. .............................................................................................................
Univers ity Clubhouses:
.;;

500.00
2,500.00
100.00

Berkele y -~-···-···-··--···-···-··-········-···-·············· ···-··················· 18,000.00
U. C. L . .f.-,,.~,.~ ....··-··-··-··-··············-······-··-····--··-····--······-· 18,000.00
Committee on Revision of Ross Digest.
600.00

-··-··········=~~=~~==~:~:=~::~~~=:::~~:=~~:~=::=~~ 5,000.00
1,000.00

Grand Lodge Litiptio n...........
Investm ent Committee ......................................................................................................._ _____ ,,_.... _____ ,.__

TOTAL ·····-··-························-································-··-······-·--.$109,700.00
Recapitu lation
Adminis trative and Oftice.

············ ··········-· ············ ··········-· ·--··-----t 641630 00
General Expense···········-·······················································--·····-··-·····- 127 950.00
.
Appropriations ............................................·······················-··········--·········· 109,' 700 .oo

GRAND TOTAL ·······························-··········-··-··--··-··-··-······..$302.Z80.00

372

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

373

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AUDIT OF 195.5 ANNUAL RETURNS

AUDIT OP

September 26, 1955

1955 ANNUAL RETURNS
Exhibit A

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
· of the State of California
Masonic Temple
25 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, California

Statement of 1955 Annual Retuma
Fiscal Year Received
Year
Year
Total Per
1955 Annual Ended Beginning
Returns July 31, '55 Aug. 1, '55
Grand Lodge Support and Activities:

Gentlemen:
We have made an examination of the 1955 Annual Returns of the constituent Lodges of the Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California, reporting on the
membership and on the payments due Grand Lodge in accordance with the
provisions of the Constitution and Ordinances and the action taken by Grand
Lodge at the 1954 annual communication. Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances.

.Master Masons on
July 31, 1955.·-···-······.225,033

The total payments due Grand Lodge, based upon the 1955 annual returns, amount to $962,758.75, as shown by the accompanying statement,
marked Exhibit A. At the date of this report, September 26, 1955, this amount
had been collected in full and transferred to the Grand Treasurer, with the
exception of a ·b alance of $105.75, arising from errors made in the returns.
This balance was in the process of adjustment and collection at the date of
this report.

Less: Members whose
dues were remitted.._ 3,564

Members paid for............221,469 @ $1.25 ea. $276,836.25
Degrees conferred in year
ended July 31, 1955.-... 25,723@ $1.00 ea. 25,723.00

$276,836.25

$302,559.25

$302,559.25

25,723.00

Masonic Homes of California Contributions:
Master Masons on
$110,734.50
July 31, 1955..- ..... - .....221,469@ $ .50 ea. $110,734.50 $
Contributions of Initiates
and Affiliates ····-··---· 9,657 @ 25.00 ea. 241,425.00 171,450.00 69,975.00
$352,159.50 $171,450.00 $180,709.50

Respectfully submitted,
California Masonic Memorial Temple Contributions:
SKINNER & HAMMOND
Certified Public Accountants

Master Masons on
July 31, 19&5---·-··---.221,469 @ $1.00 ea. $221,469.00 $
Contributions of

Initiates ····---···-····-·· 8,658@ $9.00 ea.

77,904.00

$221,469.00
55,377.00

22,527.00

$299,373.00 $ 55,377 .oo $243,996.00
Georp Wuhington Muonic
Rational Memorial Contributions:
Contributions of
Initiates ........................ 8,667 @ $1.00 ea.$ 8,667.00 $ 6,165.00 $

2,502.00

Total ......................................................-*982,758.75 $232,992.00 $729,766.75

3i4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Septemb er 6, 1955

GRAN D LODGE AUDIT
The Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
Of the State of Californi a
Masonic Temple, 25 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco , Californi a
Gentleme n:
We have examined the balance sheet of THE MOST
P.FUL
GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND ACCEPT ED MASONS OFWORSlll
STATE
OF OALIFO RNIA as of July 31, 1955, and the related statemenTHE
t of revenue
and expense for the year then ended. Our e¥aminat ion was made
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards , and according
ly
included
such tests of the accountin g records and such other auditing procedur
es as
we considere d necessary in the circumsta nces.
The annual financial statemen ts of Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of Californi a,
have been prepared for many years past on the cash basis of accountin g, and
the attached financial statemen ts for the current year are likewise
prepared
on that basis. Under the cash basis of accountin g revenue and expenses
are
recorded upon the books of account and reflected in the financial statemen
ts
when received and paid, respectiv ely, without regard to the period to which
they 1apply.
The total revenue received by Grand Lodge during the
year
ended July 31, 1955, from contribut ions levied upon the Lodges fiscal
to $983,552.68, as shown on Exhibit B of this report. Included in suchamounted
revenue
are contribut ions for the Masonic Homes of Californi a, for the Californi
Masonic Memoria l Temple, and for the Endowm ent Fund of the Georgea
Washing ton Masonic National Memoria l Association, in the aggregate amount
of $685,260.55, leaving a balance of the contribut ions from the Lodges of
$298,292.13 for the support of Grand Lodge. This balance, together with
other
income of $31,465.46, including income from investme nts and savings deposits, provided total revenue of $329,757.59, as shown on Exhibit B, for
the
support of Grand Lod~e and its activities during the current fiscal year.
Expenses and appropria tions of Grand Lodge for the current fiscal year
amounted to $303,796.77, leaving a balance of unexpend ed revenue for the
1ear of $25,960.82. This balance, together with gains on the sales
securities
m the amount of $22,717.00, provided net revenue for the year ofof$48,677.82
as shown on Exhibit B. This net revenue has been added to the Capital of,
Grand Lodge, as shown on Exhibit A,
At July 31, 1955, the contribut ions received from Lod(tes
the current year for the Masonic Homes and for the Memoria l during
in the
amounts of $350,878.50 and $293,160.00, respectiv ely, as shownTemple
on Exhibit B,
had been paid over to these organizat ions by Grand Lodge. At
same date,
Grand Lodge had on hand a balance of $6,122.00 of the contributthe
ions
received
during the current fiscal year for the George Washing ton Masonic National
Memoria l. This balance of $6,122.00, represent ing contribut ions received
during the current year after the payment to the Endowm ent Fund of
George
Washing ton Masonic National Memoria l Associati on of the sum ofthe
$41,882.05,
pursuant to a resolutio n adopted at the 1954 Commun ication, is shown
as a
liability on the attached balance sheet.
Cash on deposit in banks at July 31, 1955, as shown by Exhibit A.
amounted to $147,402.10, an increase of $56,986.38 over the amount on deposit
in banks at the beginning of the year. This increase was provided principal ly
by the net revenue of $48,677.82, mentione d above, and a decrease
during
the year in the amount invested in securities of $5,718.27.
The total amount invested in securities at the end of the current year
amounte d to $777,126.51 as shown on Exhibit A. At that date these securities
had an aggregate market value of $779,839.30. On August 2, 1955, Grand
Lodge, pursuant to the recomme ndation adopted at the 1954 Commun
ication,

375

sold to Masonic Temple Associa·t ion of Californi a, Inc., for the sum of $254,887 .50 the 33,985 shares of the capital stock of that associatio n owned
by it
at July 31, 1955. This transactio n, having taken place following the close
of

the current fiscal year, is not reflected on the attached financial statemen ts.
The Masonic Temple Associati on of Californi a, Inc., owns the temple
at 25
Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco , in which Grand Lodge has had its offices.
The shares of Masonic Temple Association of Californi a, Inc., owned
by Grand
Lodge represent ed 51.63% of the outstandi ng stock of that corporati
on. The
accounts of that corporati on have not been audited by us.
On Schedule s 4, 5, and 6 of this report, the expenses and appropria tions
for the current year are shown in comparis on with those for the preceding
fiscal year, and also with the budget for the current year adopted
Grand
Lodge at the 1954 Commun ication. It may be noted that the total by
expenses
and appropria tions were less than the amount provided in the budget.
ever in certain individua l categorie s expendit ures exceeded the amountHowthat
had been provided in the budget Any such expendit ures were
not paid until
approved by the Grand Master. Supplies purchase d during the year
resale
to Lodges and individua ls amount to $22,970.87, and sales of suchfor
supplies
amount to $20,657.80, leaving a net differenc e of $2,313.07, which is shown
as an expense on Exhibit B. This item is not provided for in the
but
it is exceeded by the value of the inventory of unsold SUt>plies budget,
hand at
July 31, 1955. The accounts being on a cash basis of accountm g, theoninventory
of unsold supplies is not reflected on the attached financial statemen ts.
The details of all expendit ures during the year were examined by us
with the exception of the Grand Master's travel and miscellan eous expense,
certain of the expendit ures of the Endowm ent Board and the appropria tions
to Employm ent Bureaus and the Universit y Clubhous es. No vouchers covering these expenses and appropria tions have been required
be filed with
Grand Lodge. Our examinat ion disclosed no unpaid bills attoJuly
31, 1955,
with the exception of sundry expenses , insignific ant in amount.
The 1954 Commun ication of the Grand Lodge adopted a resolutio n that
the "Californ ia Freemaso n" be continued as a quarterly publicati on to be
distribute d as the Grand Master may direct. During the current year,
subscriptions at $1.00 per year were collected, and single copies were sold,
producin g an aggre~ate revenue of $20,546.00. Of this revenue $14,881.75
represent s the prepaid portion of subscript ions at July 31, 1955, and
at that
date Grand Lodge was contingen tly liable in that amount. In the financial
statemen ts herewith , that revenue, including the .p repaid portion
thereof,
has been offset against the expenses of the Correspo ndence Committ
ee
amountin g to $21,487.36, resulting in a net expense for the Correspo ndence
Committ ee for the year of only $941.36 and an unexpend ed budget of
$7,058.64, as shown on Schedule 5.
During the year the Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board and the California Masonic Memoria l Temple Committe e continued to engage
in campaigns to raise money for the Masonic Homes and the new Masonic Memoria
l
Temple. The funds collected by the Endowm ent Board are paid to the
ment Fund of Masonic Homes of Californi a and the funds collectedEndowby the
Memoria l Temple Committ ee are paid to the Californi a Masonic Memoria
l
Temple corporati on and are not reflected in the attached statemen ts.
In our opinion, the accompan ying balance sheet and statemen t of income
and expense together with the foregoin~ comment s, present fairly,
the
cash basis of accountin g, the financial position of The Most Worshipf on
Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Californi a at ul
July 31,
1955, and the results of its operation for the year then ended in
ty
with generally accepted accountin g principle s applied on a basisconformi
consisten t
with that of the preceding year.
We attach the following for your informati on:
EXHIBIT A-BALA NCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT B--STAT EMENT OF REVENU E AND EXPENS E, YEAR
ENDED JULY
31, 1955.

376

PROCEEDINGS OP THP.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1-CASH IN BANKS, JULY 31, 1955.
SCHEDULE 2-INVESTMEN TS, JULY 31, 1955.
SCHEDULE 3-CONTRIBUT IONS RECEIVED FROM LODGES, YEAR
ENDED JULY 31, 195~.
SCHEDULE 4-ADMINISTR ATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSE. Comparative with years ended July 31, 1955 and 1954, and with budget.
SCHEDULE 5--GENERAL EXPENSE. Comparative with years ended
July 31, 1955 and 1954, and with budget.
SCHEDULE 6-APPROPRIA TIONS. Comparative with years ended
July 31, 1955and1954, and with budget.

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Respectfully submitted,
SKINNER & HAMMOND
Certified Public Accountants

377

Exhibit A
Balance Sheet July 31, 1955
ASSETS
CASH IN BANKS: (Schedule 1)•.·----·-"-..., ....

$147,40.2.10

INVESTMENTS (At cost) (Schedule 2)
Bonds (market value $171,152.50) ..................................$175,428.20
Stocks (market value $353,799.30) .........................-···- 261,850.31
Stock in Masonic Temple Association of California,
.Jnc., 33,985 shares (market value $254,887.50) ........ 339,850.00
Total (market value $779,839.30)..........................

777,121Ull

OTHER ASSETS:
Insurance premium payments advanced for Lodges
Refundable deposits with ah-lines...................._............

652.55
850.00
1.502.55

TOTAL ASSETS ...........................................- .........

$926,031.16

LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
LIABILITIES:
Contributions of Initiates, held for the Endowment
Fund of the George Washington Masonic National Men:v:>rial
8,122.00
Advance payments on annual returns made by
lodges ····-····---······-··-·-·······-···---····--···-················· 3,763.50
TOTAL LIABILITIES ..................·-····-·····--····--····
$ 9,885.!IO
CAPITAL:
Balance, July 31, 1954...- ............ _........ _____ ....................$887,481.84
Net revenue for the year ended July 31, 1955 (Exhibit B) ···-······-···-·--···········--·---·---··········--···--·······--··--··· 48,877.82
Balance, July 31, UJl55..•..- ..........."...............,-...................
918,145.88

···--··-····-··-·--·-·---···---.f

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL............. .

$928,031.18

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Exhibit B
Statement of Revenue and Expeme Yem Ended July :n, 1955 -

REVENUE:
$983,552.68
Contributions received from Lodges (Schedule 3) ....
Less: Contributions received for special purposes:
Masonic Homes of Calliomia...........-····-·······--·········-$350,878.50
California Masonic Memorial Temple.•..·--·-·-·-··· 293,160.00 .
George Washington Masonic National Memorial 41,222.05

Fees for charters and di&pensations..........._...._.........$ 1,875.00
250.00
Rents from Columbia Temple........·-·····························
226.44
Miscellaneous revenue ....................................................

685;260.55
$298,292.13

Schedule 1
Cub In Banks July 31, 1955
COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTS
Crocker First National Bank of San Francisco...- ..-.$ 1,695.05
Bank of America N. T. & S. A., North Beach Branch 2,384.10
Crocker First National Bank of San Francisco
(Operating Fund) ···-····-···-····-·---~---··············-··-· 20,000.00
American Trust Company, Civic Center Office (Re500.00
volving Fund) .................................:............- ...............
American Trust Company, Civic Center Offce
(Clearing Account) ·················-··········-····.. ··········-····· 3,813.50

$ 28,392.65
SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
The Anglo California National Bank....·-····-··············-$ 76,136.19
Bank of America N. T. & S. A., Ninth and Market
Branch ·····-······················-········-······-····-··········-···-······ 35,000.00
Wells Fargo Bank, Union Trust 01fice....._______________ 7,873.26

Revenue from savings and investments:
Dividends on stock....•-···-···-······-·········$23,487.78
Interest on bonds...-··--··-······················· 4,147.59
Interest on bank accounts...................... 1,478.65

119,009.45

29,114.02
TOTAL REVENUE ···--·····················-····················
EXPENSE:
Administrative and office expense (Schedule 4) ........$ 55,766.12
General expense (Schedule 5).~.•-·-·---.---···- 113,453.72
Appropriations (Schedule 8) •••_________, _________ 130,394.76
Purchase of supplies for resale.·--········--$22,970.87
Sale of supplies..·-···-··-····--····--····-··:.:.. 20,657 .80
2,313.07
Special appropriations by Grand Master:
P. G. M. Leslie Wood trip to Hawaii ...$ 1,667.10
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief....

31,465.46
$329,757.59

202.00
1,869.10

Balance..., ...--····-··················-,··-···,·····················-····-·Gains on sales of securitiea....... - ..........................- .......
NET REVENUE ........................................................

379

303,796.77
$ 25,960.82
22,717.00
$ 48,677.82

TOTAL CASH IN BANKS ((Exhibit A>---··-··---

$147,402.10

380

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGB AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Schedule 2
Investments July 31. 1955
BONDS
Face Value
Cost
$10,000 Continental Baking Co., 3% %, 1980........................................$ 11,000.20
1,992.50
2,000 Dow Chemical Company, 3%, 1982..........................................
1,925.50
2,000 International Mineral & Chemical Corp., 3.65%, 1977........
500 Southern California Edison Co., 3l/4 %, 1970..........................
508.00
40,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1958............................ 40,000.00
30,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959......·-··-·················· 30,000.00
90,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1960............................ 90,000.00
TOTAL BONDS ......................................................................$1715,428.20
PREFERRED STOCK
Cost

Shares

45 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, Inc., 41hClo---········---·--···-' 4,517.00
45 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 314 "'--·---·-····-···--·- 4,348.28
7,842.79
100 Liquid Carbonic Corp., 31h% ....................................................
50
100
1,507.70
15 Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp., 4l/4 %....................................
852.20
8 Public Service Co. of Indiana, 4.20%......................................
4,913.85
45 United Aireraft Corp., 5%..........................................................
50 U. S. Plywood Corp., S~ "°·-······--·····················--··-········--- 5,040.00
250 York Corp., 4lhClo----····················--·-········-···----··-··- 14,510.81

~~~::iz ~~~$4.~~-~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ii:~~:~~

TOTAL PREFERRED STOCK..............................................$ 58,777.16
COMMON STOCK
Shares
150
45
15
187
75
60
90
320
94
66

144

400
165
90
30
225
75
82
150
170
51

Cost
Air Reduction Company ............................................................$ 4,523.05
Allied Chemical & Dye Corp..................................................... 3,502.67
American Telephone & Telegraph Company........................ 2,280.91
Anglo California National Bank................................................ 6,863.93
Atlantic Refining Company..................................·-··········-····· 2,457.04
Bankers Trust Company of New York.................................... 2,730.00
Beatrice Foods Company............................................................ 3,254.45
Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp•...•·-············-····-··--·- 3,421.60
Chase Manhattan Bank.............................................................. 2,778.38
Chemical Corn Exchange Bank................................................ 2,610.00
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company............................ 3,407.19
Columbia Gas System, Inc......................................................... 6,788.40
Commonwealth Edison Company............................................. 4530.85
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc............... :. 2,926.62
Continental Oil Company.......................................................... 1,890.77
Corn Products Refining Company............................................ 4,986.23
Dayton Power & Light Company.............................................. 2,796.19
Delaware Power & Light Company........••.•.....·-···-················ 1,999.08
Dequesne Light Company........·-··························-··-····-······ 4,177.50
General Public Utilities Corp•................... ·-·········-·-·--········ 3,383.78
Gulf Oil Corp................................................................................. 2,432.27
Forward $ 73,740.91

381

Forward $ 73,740.91
Home Insurance Company of New York................................. 3,156.91
Illinois Power Coaipen;r ·---··-·-··--.........................._•.••• 3,128.23
Kaiaer Aluminum & Chemical Company ............................... . 4,958.27
Kansas City Power & Light Company..........·-······················· 3,838.20
Lone Star Gas Cmlpany................................... _......................... 5,256.20
Manufacturers Trust Company.................................................. 2,385.00
McKesson & Robbins, Inc.~----·-··················-····-· ..-·-···-·····- 2,730.01
Minnesota Power & Light Company........................................ 3,593.37
New England Electric SJatesn-................................................ 3,938.47
New York State Electric & Gas Corp..................................... 3,608.94
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation.................- ................... 4,295.78
631.39
Northern Illinois Gas eo...........-···-·····-·"·-········-··········----··
Northern States Power Company............................................ 3,302.16
Ohio Edison Colnpany-··-··--···················-················-··-··-- 3,635.33
9wens-Illinois Glass Colnpany_..................- .......................... 1,095.20
Pacific Gas & Electric Company.............................................. 3,324.54
Pacific Lighting Corp...................................................·-·-··-··· 2,971.47
Parke Davis & Company............................................................ 5,858.85
Philadelphia Electric Company................................................ 4,586.93
75 Philip Morris, lnc.--··-·--<t····----·-··-···-·-·············--····· 3,917.88
2,466.89
50 Phillips Petroleum Company....................................................
310 Public Service Electric & Gas Company................................
7,734.15
3,838.96
148 Public Service Company of Indiana........................................
66 Sl Joseph Lead Company............................................... _.........
3,087.82
2,130.30
62 Shell Oil Ccllnpany--··-························································..·····
3,063.81
90 Southern California Edison Company..................·-···············
3,426.99
150 Standard Brands, Inc......................................'"-·-···----··-··-··
4,562.62
100 Standud Oil Co. of Ohio.........-·····-··············-·-···-··-----·
2,961.99
75 Sterling Drug Campany..·-··--··-··········--····················---··-·
250 Union Electric Company of MJuouri..............-..................... 6,296.49
6,186.26
165 Union Oil Company of California............................................
3,570.97
148 United Gas Corp..-······-···········-·····-······-··········-··-······-·-···3,142.99
75 United Shoe Machinery Company............:...............................
100 Utah Power & Light Company......................·-··--······-··-··-·· 3,420.14
180 Wiaconsin Electric Power Company........................................ 3,208.73

75
90
423
135
200
45
75
210
307
148
181
49
330
120
15
103
75
150
120

TOTAL COMMON STOCK....................................................$203,073.11
TOTAL STOCKS -·-··--·~ ...............................................- ..-.$281 18I0.11

STOCK IN MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA, INC.
Shares
33,985 Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc.....................f339,850.00

TOTAL INVESTMENTS (Exhibit A) ..................................f777,126.IS1

·382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Schedule 3
Contributions Rec:eived. From Lodges Year Ended July 31. 1955
GRAND LODGE SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES:
Master Masons on July 31, 1954....·-··-······--·219,664
Less: Members whose dues were remitted 3,317
Members paid for, per 1954 Annual
Returns @ $1.25 each..·-··········-··-·····-·····216,S.7 $270,433.75
344.62
Less: Adjustments for previous years..·-···-····-·····-···
$270,089.13
On degrees confeITed in year ended July
31, 1954, per 1954 Annual
28,203.00
Returns @ $1.00 each..·-··-··-··-·-·-·-·· -·· 28,203
$298,292.13
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA CONTRIBUTIONS:
On Master Masons at July 31, 1954, per
1954 Annual Returns @ $.50 each............216,347 $108,173.50
Contributions of lnitiates and Affiliates
@ $25.00 each:
Final payme:p.t from year ended
July 31, 1954, per 1954 Annual
73,1;175.00
Returns
·
Instalment payments on 1955 Annual Returns ···-····························-··· 171,450.00
$245,325.00
Less: Adjustments for previous years
· and refunds ........................................ 2,620.00
242,705.00
350,878.50
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL
TEMPLE CONTRIBUTIONS:
On Master Masons at Ju]y 31,, 1954, per
216,347 $216,347.00
1954 Annual Returns@ $1.00 each....
Contributions of Initiates @ $9.00 each
Final payment from year ended
July 31, 1954, per 1954 Annual
Returns - · - - · - - - - - - - · - ' 21,634.00
.
Instalment payments on 1955 Annual
Returns ···················-··························· 55,179.00
76,813.00
293,160.00
GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL
MEMORIAL CONTRIBUTIONS:
On Master Masons at July 31, 1954, per
216,347 $ 32,452.05
1954 Annual Returns @ $.15 each......
Contributions of Initiates @ $1.00 each:
Final payment from year ended
July 31, 1954, per 1954 Annual
Returns ·······-··-··-······················-·······$ 2,648.00
Instalment payments on 1955 Annual
Returns ·······-··-··········-··-········--··-·- 6,165.00
$ 8,813.00
Less: Adjustments for previous years
and refunds·······················-·····-·········· _ _4_3_.o_o_
8,770.00
41,222.05
Total contributions received from Lodges (Exhibit B) ............$9831552.88

--·-·----·----· ---f

383

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Schedule 4
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSE

Dates as shown
Year Ended
July 31, 1955 July 31, 1954 Increase
Compared with previous year
$
$40,522.50
Salaries ···············-······-···········$40,214.11
6,000.00
Rent ···-······-··········-··-············· 6,000.00
1,300.00
200.00
1,500.00
.
Audit .......................................
981.91
914.63
Grand Treasurer ·····-···········
83.58
2,200.93
Postage and express.............. 2,284.51
1,452.59
Telephone and telegraph.... 1,329.79
97.23
1,508.52
Supplies and sundry..·-········· 1,605.75
Social security and
314.83
702.50
unemployment taxes........ 1,017.33
900.00
900.00
Investment counsel..·-·-·······
$695.64
$55.568.95
Total (Exhibit B) ................$55,766.12
Over
$

Expended
Compared with budget
Salaries ............................... :....$40,214.11
Rent .......................................... 6,000.00
Audit ·······-··········-···-·············· 1,500.00
914.63
Grand Treasurer....·-·············
Postage and express.............. 2,284.51
Telephone and telegraph.... 1,329.79
Supplies and sundry............ 1,605.75
Social security and
unemployment taxes........ 1,017.33
900 ..00
Investment counsel... .............

Budget
$40,900.00
7,800.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
2,500.00
1,500.00
1,700.00
1,000.00
900.00

17.33

Total ·-·... -· ....- ...................~5. 766.12

i58,800.00

i 17.33

Decrease
$ 308.39
67.28
122.80

$ 498.47
Under
$ 685.89
l,800.00
85.37
215.49
170.21
94.25

~31051.21

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Schedule5
GENERAL EXPENSE
Datesas1hown
Year Ended
July 31,
July 31,
Increase Decrease
1954
1955
Compared with previous year
Annual communication..................$ 15,831.82 $ 14,983.12 $ 848.70 $
54.74
3,357.80
Conferences ···········-··-··-················· 3,412.54
5,803.20 1,191.93
Grand Lodge officers' travel......... 6,995.13

G~~r~~-~~---·······················

400.00
400.00
7,000.00 1,000.00
Grand Master's tra·veL.................... 8,000.00
1,750.00
Grand Master's miscellaneous...... 1,750.00
4,000.00
Investment counsel for Lodges.... 4,000.00
Workmen's compensation
206.51
5,000.00
insurance ...................................... 4,793.49
1,125.00
1,125.00
Portrait of Grand Master............... .
Representatives' mileage................ 29,056.78 27 ,150.82 1,9015.96
161.44
Prmting ······-······-····························· 19,565.08 19,726.52
Ritualistic:
600.00
600.00
Grand Lecturer........................... .
Inspectors' aprons and
36.89
1,454.44
stationery ·······-·········................ 1,491.33
207.95
Travel ...........-................................. 10,927.15 11,135.10
190.00
595.00
785.00
Grand Maater's relief fund............
900.00
900.00
Retirement P8Y···-·-··-·-···-·············
474.06
1,997.84
Veteran buttons..- ..-··-······............. 2,471.90
805.81 .,..,...~,...,,...,,
1,667.69
Miscellaneous ---····-········-···- 2,473.50
Total (Exhibit B) ......................... ~113,453.72 $108,646.53 $6,508.09 $1,700.90
•Over Under
ElCl>ended Budget
Compared with budget
Annual communication ................•.$ 15,831.82 $ 15,000.00 $ 831.82 $
1,087 .46
4,500.00
Conferences ···--··---······--············· 3,412.54
5,000.00 1,995.13
Grand Lodge officers' travel......... 6,995.13

GG~~r~~~-~-~-~..........................

400.00
400.00
7,000.00 1,000.00
Grand Master's travel.. .... _............. 8,000.00
1,750.00
Grand Master's miscellaneous...... 1,750.00
4,000.00
Investment counsel for Lodges...... 4,000.00
Workmen's compensation
206.51
5,000.00
insurance ...................................... 4, 793.49
925.00
925.00
Portrait of Grand Master............... .
943.22
Representatives' mileage................ 29,056. 78 30,000.00
434.92
Prmting -··-··---··-··-··-..···-···-··· 19,565.08 20,000.00
Ritualistic:
600.00
600.00
Grand Lecturer........... - ............... ..
Inspectors' aprons and
8.67
1,500.00
stationery ···--··-························· l,491.33
572.85
Travel.............................................. 10,927.15 11,500.00
35.00
750.00
785.00
Grand Master's relief fund............
900.00
900.00
Retirement pay..................................
28.10
2,500.00
Veteran buttons................................ 2,471.90
473.50 ..,.._,,,.,,...,,..,,,.,,.
2,000.00
Miscellaneous···-··-··············-········- 2,473.50
$113,453.72 $113,325.00 $4,335.45 $4,206.73
4,335.45
Authori%ed by Grand Master........
Total ---...·----··-·---·-··-··-----J113,463.72 $117 ,660.45 _
•Expenditures in excess of the budget were not paid until approved by the
Grand Master.

385

Schedule 6
APPROPRIATIONS
Compared with previous year
Year Ended
July 31, 1955 July 31, 1954 Increase Decrease
Activities Committee···········--.$ 4,478.76 $ · 4,337.32 $ 141.44 $
596.01
1,496.91
900.90
Board of Control........................
361.69
721.11
359.42
Charters Committee ....•.............
299.39
1,388.59
Columbia Temple ...................... 1,687.98
648.47
323.75
970.22
Constitution Month ..................
5,500.00
941.36
Correspondence Committee ....
4,5158.64
. 200.84
233.36
De Molay Committee................
32.52
16,220.00
Employment Bureaus .............. 15,450.00
770.00
10,200.38
Endowment Board _................. 8,870.07
1,330.31
37 .20
17 .50
History Committee ....................
19.70
28.52
Information Committee ..........
28.152
1,443.38
Lodge Financing Committee.... 1,594.46
151.08
41,795.06
Memorial Temple •..-................. 50,486.60
8,691.54
3,477.76
Public Schools Week.................. 3,918.80
441.04
2,087.63
Publications Committee .......... 2,240.41
152.78
93.18
54.97
Sojourners Committee ..............
38.21
40,075.00
University Clubhouses ............ 38,000.00
2,075.00
15,632.64
189.95
Special Appropriations ............
15,442.69
Total (Exhibit B) ....................$130,394.76 $145,059.27 $10,556.26 $25,220.77
Compared with budget
Budget
E~nded
Over•
Under
Activities Committee ................$ 4,478.76 $ 4,500.00 $
21.24
$
Board of Control........................
1,250.00
900.90
349.10
Charters Committee ..................
1,000.00
359.42
640.58
1,400.00
287.98
Columbia T~le ·····-········-····· 1,687.98
Constitution onth ..................
970.22
500.00
470.22
941.36
8,000.00
Corres~ndence Committee ....
7,058.64
De Mo y Committee................
233.36
500.00
266.64
15,450.00
Emdcloyment Bureaus .............. 15,450.00
10,000.00
8,870.07
1,129.93
En owment Board ···--····-·····
17.50
250.00
232.150
History Committee ·····---···········
Information Committee ............
100.00
100.00
Lodge Financing Committee .. 1,594.46
1,600.00
5.54
Memorial Temple ...................... 50,486.60
32,500.00 17,986.60
Public Schools Week.................. 3,918.80
4,000.00
81.20
3,500.00
Publications Committee .........• 2,240.41
1,259.59
54.97
Sojourners Committee ..............
100.00
45.03
38,000.00
University Clubhouses ··········- 38,000.00
350.00
189.95
160.05
Stevenson's Grave ·--··-·········--··
$130,394. 76 $123,000.00 1181744.80 1111350.04
Authorized by Grand Master..
18,744.80
Total.·----··--··--······-··-···.$130,394.76 i1411744.80

•Expenditures in excess of the budget were not paid until approved by the
Grand Master.

386

387

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

$18,913.15 for the superintendent's residence. The total additions of $107,531.21
were made from funds provided by the Reserves for Special Purposes, as
shown on Schedule 4. The buildings and contents of the Decoto and Covina
Homes are insured for fire, with extended coverage, in the amount of
$4,361,000.00. The valuations are reviewed annually for insurance purposes.

October 3, 1955
Masonic Homes of California
Masonic Temple
25 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco,,California
Gentlemen:
We have examined the Balance Sheet of the
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
(A California Non-Profit Corporation)
as of July 31, 1955, and the related Statement of Revenue and Expenses for
the year then ended. In connection therewith we also examined the Balance
Sheets of the PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND and the other Endowment Funds of the Masonic Homes of California as of July 31, 1955, and
thefr related statements of revenue for the year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other
auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circwnstances.
The annual financial statements of the Masonic Homes of California
have been prepared for many years past on the cash basis of accounting,
modified to recognize minor accruaJs, and the attached financial statements
are prepared on the same basis.
In accordance with action taken by Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California at the 1953 Annual Communication confirming legal title to the
Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes in the Masonic Homes
of California, the report on the audit of the Permanent Endowment Fund and
the John and Lena Luckenbach Fund are included in this report. In previous years the audit of these Funds was reported upon in a separate report.
The total revenue received by the Masonic Homes of California during
the fiscal year ended July 31, 1955, amounted to $654,158.51, as shown on
Exhibit D. Its operating expenses for the year amounted. to $6~8,805.81,
leaving a balance of unexpended revenue of $5,352.70. Capital gams irom
sales of securities in the amount of $90,554.93, and a refund of prior years
fire insurance premium of $9,281.21, resulted in a final net revenue for the
year of $105,188.84, as shown on Exhibit D. This revenue has been added to
the Capital of Masonic Homes of California.
General Fund cash on hand and on deposit in banks at July 31, 1955, as
shown iby Exhibit A, amounted to $889,695.23, an increase of $346, 785.21 over
the amount on hand and on deposit at the beginnin,g of the year.
The total amount of the General Fund invested in securities at July 31,
1955 amounted to $1,097,276.87, as shown on Exhibit A. Securities purchased are stated on the books and in this report at cost. Securities received
as donations are stated at market value when received or at the nominal
value of $1.00, if the market value was not known.
The amount of $81,924.24 shown as notes and contracts receivable on
Exhibit A is the result of sales of real estate received by the Masonic Homes
of California by assignment from applicants admitted to the Home at Decoto.
The value of land, buildings, and equipment is shown on Exhibit A, at
$3,094,449.33, ~e cost when originally P'!ll"i;hased. IJ?- ~cordance w~th the
consistent policy of the Trustees, depreciation of buildmgs. a!ld · e9wpment
is not provided for in the ac~ounts, bu~ replacements of origm~l. items are
considered expenses of operations. Durmg the current year additions to. the
Decoto Home were $75,087.00 for elevators, $10,017.97 for wells and pumps,
and $3,513.09 for a new kitchen. Additions to the Covina Home were

The Other Assets of $3,294.48 shown on Exhibit A, consist of real estate
and life insurance policies assigned to Masonic Homes of California by residents of the Decoto Home. The individual parcels of real estate and life
insurance policies are each recorded at the nominal value of $1.00 for accountability, with the exception that payments by Masonic Homes of California on loans obtained by the assignors of such policies are added to the
nominal values. The proceeds from the sale of this real estate and from the
life insurance policies are credited direct to one of the Reserves for Special
Purposes as directed by the Trustess.
The sundry liabilities of $6,895.17, shown on Exhibit A, consists of
$4,3~8.44 of accounts payable ~Y ~e Covina Home, and $2,506.73 representing the amount of the contri:butions of employees of the Masonic Homes
payable to Wells Fargo Bank as. Trustee under the "Masonic Homes of
California Retirement Income Plan".
The "Masonic Homes of California Retirement Income Plan", was authorized at the 1947 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. This
plan became effective January 1, 1955. "The object of the Plan is to provide
a method whereby Masonic Homes of California and its employees may make
regular contributions to a trust fund to provide definite retirement income
benefits for participating employees who become entitled thereto." Under
the terms of the Plan participating employees contribute 3% of their regular
salary which is deposited by the Masonic Homes with the Wells Fargo Bank
as Trustee. Under the terms of the Plan the Masonic Homes may make
voluntary contributions to the trust fund in order to place the Plan on a
sound actuarial basis. According to Coates, Herfurth & England, Consulting Actuaries, employed by the Masonic Homes, there is a past service
liability to be funded by the Masonic Homes in the amount of $58,068.00,
and the present value of benefits to be provided by future contributions of
the Masonic Homes ·a mounts to $173,829.00. The Masonic Homes has, to
date, contributed a token .. 100.00 to the Trustee. No additional contributions are contemplated until the Plan has received the approval of the Internal Revenue Service.
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes have established six special reserves
to which are credited the amounts of donations and bequests which are to
be used for purposes other than direct operating expenses. These reserves,
representing funds aggregating $1,344,367.40 at July 31, 1955, are shown on
the attached Balance Sheet as "Reserves for Special Purposes". The activities of these reserves during the year are shown on Schedule 4.
Endowment funds held by the Masonic Homes of California amounted

to a total of $6,825,548.97 at July 31, 1955, as shown by Exhibit A. Of these
funds $6,282,548.95 was in the Permanent Endowment Fund of Masonic

Homes of California. The Permanent Endowment Fund was increased by
$748,208.73 during the current year by donations, bequests, gains on securities sold, and $100,000.00 transferred from the Covina Special Fund. The
other endowment funds increased during the year by the aggregate sum of
$37,249.77. A description of each of the endowment funds, together with a
Balance Sheet, and, where appropriate, a statement of the related revenue,
is shown on Exhibits E to M, inclusive.

In our opinion, subject to the foregoing comments, the accompanying
Balance Sheet, marked Exhibit A, and the related Statement of Revenue
and Expenses, marked Exhibit D, together with the balance sheets of the
Endowment Funds and the related statements of revenue, present fairly,
on the cash basis of accounting, the financial position of the Masonic Homes
of California and its Endowment F~ds at July 31, 1955, and the results of

388

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

operations for the year then ended, in conoformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding
year.

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Exhibit A
Balance Sheet. July 13, 1955

We attach the following for your information:
EXHIBIT A: BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT B: ENDOWMENT FUNDS, JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT C: RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES, JULY 31, 1955;
CAPITAL, JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT D: STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSES, YEAR
ENDED JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT E: PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA- BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1955;
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT F: JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND, BALANCE
SHEET, JULY 31, 1955; STATEMENT OF REVENUE, YEAR ENDED JULY
31, 1955.
EXHIBIT G: GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUND, BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT H: GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. PERINE ENDOWMENT FUND, BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1955; STATEMENT OF REVENUE, YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT I: HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT ANNUITY
FUND, BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1955; STATEMENT OF ANNUITIES
AND REVENUE, YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT J: C. N. FLINT TRUST FUND, BALANCE SHEET, JULY
31, 1955; STATEMENT OF REVENUE, YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT K: STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND, BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1955; STATEMENT OF REVENUE, YEAR ENDED
JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT L: LEONARD GROSS MEMORIAL F~, BALANCE
SHEET, JULY 31, 1955.
EXHIBIT M: RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS, BALANCE SHEET, JULY
31, 1955
SCHEDULE 1: CASH ON HAND AND IN BANKS, JULY 31, 1955.
SCHEDULE 2: INVES~N'TIS (Consolidated schedule of Investments, except for investments of the Permanent Endowment Fund and of
the John and Lena Luckenbach Fund), JULY 31, 1955.
SCHEDULE 3: INVESTMENTS , PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND
OF THE MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA, JULY 31, 1955.
SCHEDULE 4: RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES, JULY 31, 1955.
SCHEDULE 5: EXPENSES, COMPARATIV E WITH YEARS ENDED
JULY 31, 1955 AND 1954.
Respectfully submitted,

SKINNER & HAMMOND
Certitl.ed Public Accountants

389

ASSETS
GENERAL FUND:
Cash on hand and in banks-Schedul e 1........
Investments (at book value)-Schedu le 2:
Bonds (market value $347,935.48) ............... . $
Stocks (market value $988.814.63) ..............
Total (market value $1,336,750.11) ..........
Notes and contracts receivable from sales of
real estate ·······-············ .. ·································
Inventories (at cost):
Stores and supplies---Decot o Home...... ·-··· $
Stores and supplies-Covin a Home............
Livestock-Cov ina Home... -.. - .. -·················

$

889,695.23

348,065.95
749,230.92
1,097 ,296.87
81,924.24
20,295.03
6,274.97
5,562.12
32,132.12

Land, buildings, and equipment (at initial
cost--no depreciation taken):
Decoto Home .............................................. $ 2,411,117.88
Covina Home ·······-······-······-············-·······
683.331.45
3,094,449.33
Other assets:

~:s:;n~f f,~~~ .~.~~~~.:~~.............. $
Real estate received by contribution stated
at nominal value of $1.00 per parcel .......

3,266.48
28.00
3,294.48

Total Assets-Genera l Fund................

$ 5,198, 792.27

ENDOWMENT FUNDS:
Cash and securities-Exh ibit B-··············-·······

6,825,548.97

TOT AL ···-·-··-···-·-··········-··-"··············-·

$12,024,341.24

LIABILmEs, CAPITAL, AND ENDOWMENTS
GENERAL FUND:
Sundry liabilities ....... - ..............................- ...... .
$
6,895.17
Amounts due endowment funds..................... .
13,344.90
Reserves for special purposes-Exhi bit C.. ..
1,344,367.47
Capital-Exhib it C ......................................·-···
3,834,184.73
Total Liabilities and CapltalGeneral Fund ..................................... .
$ 5,198,792.27
ENDOWMENT FUNDS-Exhib it B._.................
6,825,548.97
TOTAL ....................................................

$12,024,341.24

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

ENDOWMENT FUNDS

Exhibit C

Exhibit B
JULY 31. 1955
Permanent Endowment Fund of the
Masonic Homes of California-Exhibit E .. ,.......................................$6,282,548.95
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund-Exhibit F....................................
72,321.19
George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarship Fund-Exhibit G...______...._.............................._
37,573.34
George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund-Exhibit H......·-·--··-·---··--------·····----·-····
20,000.00
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund17,503.66
Exhibit I ....................................................................................................

Reserves for Special Purposes. July 31. 1955

390

C. N. Flint Trust Fund-Exhibit J ..·-·-----··-···---··--·····-······
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund-Exhibit K. ...........................
Leonard Gross Memorial Fund-Exhibit L...- .................................;..
Residents' Deposits-Exhibit M..............................................................

358,082,02
13,336.94
925.00 23,257 .87

TOTAL .................................................................,............................f6.825Ji48.97

391

Balance
July 31. 1955
$ 687,171.84
116,551.30
68,089.95
51,000.00
6,630.87
414,923.51

Reserve for Additions and Replacements........
Covina Special Fund ···-··············-•-···---···········•
Decoto Special Fund ..............................................
Funeral Fund ......................................................... .
Entertainment Fund ............................................. .
Unappropriated Reserve ..................................... .

$ 1,344,367.47

TOTAL

Capital
Balance, July 31, 1954................----·-·---···
Add: Additions to properties of the Homes:
Elevators at Decoto Home.......-... $
Wells and pumps at Decoto Home
Kitchens at Decoto Home.............

Su8~~~~e~~~~~-~~~-~~~~-~--~~---···'"

Net revenue for current year-Exhibit D....

$ 3,624,163.68
75,087.00
10,017.97
3,513.09
18,913.15
107,531.21
105,188.84
$ 3,836,883. 73

Adjustment to state all real estate parcels
received by contribution at the nominal
value of $1.00 per parcel.............................. .

2,699.00

TOTA:i. CAPITAL-Exhibit A ............

$ 3,834,184.73

392

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Exhibit D

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Statement of Revenue and Expenae1, Year Ended July 31, 1955
REVENUE:
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.:
1954 Annual Returns @ $.50 per caP.ita...
$ 108,173.50
Contributions of initiates and affiliates
@ $25.00 each ···················-·························
242,705.00
Pemi.anent Endowment Fund income-Exhibit E ···············-··············-··-········-···········
204,137.09
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund income-Exhibit F ···-··············-····························-·······
1,615.29
Payments through Lodges for:
15,945.00
Decoto ···········-··········-··-······················-··········· $
Covina ···························································-···
21,899.03
Revenue from savings and investments:
Dividends on stocks..........•.............·-··············· $
Interest on bonds ···-·······································
Interest on bank accounts ........................... .
Interest on notes and real estate income....
Total Revenue ···-······-··········-···············
EXPENSES-Schedule S:
Operation of Masonic Homes:
Decoto ···-··········-······-··-··-··-······················-··· $
Covina ···············-···············-·············-··-···········
Relief outside of Masonic Homes.. ·-···············
Total Expenses for Homes and Relief $
AdmJnistrative and general ···········-···············

59,683.60

INVESTMENTS (at book value)--Sc:hedule 3:
Bonds (market value $3,200,199.11) .........•.- ... $ 3,288,581.04
Preferred stock (market value $191,787.63)
170,324.93
Comm.on stock (market value $2,576,426.77)
1,930,109.90
Total securities (Market value

654,158.51

$

882,953.63

5,389,015.87

$5,968,413.51) ···········-··············-···········
MISCELLANEOUS ASSETS (at book value):
Consisting of notes receivable,

fraternal death certificates,
insurance policies and leases -····················

10,579.45

$ 6,282,548.95

90,554.93

Principal of Fund
BALANCE, JULY 31, 1954 ·······-··-·······················
INCREASE IN FuND:
Donations made through Lodges ···-··············· $
Bequests ···-··················-······--················-··-·······
Transfer from General Fund ···-······-··-·······
Gains on securities sold ···-··-······-··············-···
Memorials ·····--······-··-··············-··-··········-·······
Donations from organizations and
individuals ···································-···················

9,281.21

BALANCE, JULY 31.1955 ..................................

587,634.16
61,171.65
648,805.81
$

5,352.70

99,836.14

Total Other Revenue .•..........................

1'ET REVENUE-Exhibit A ············-·····-··-·······

37,844.03

392,435.79
177,974.67
17,223.70

Total Expenses ···········-··-············-·······
Balance ···-··-·······-·················-····-···········
OTHER REVENUE:
Gains from sales of securities·-··············-···-··· $
Refund of prior years' fire
insurance premium ........................................

Exhibit E
The principal of this Fund is restricted by the Ordinances of Grand Lodee
so that no part of the principal shall ever be expended for any purpose, and
the income therefrom shall be used only for the maintenance and operation
of the Masonic Homes at Decoto and Covina.
Balance Sheet. July 31, 1955
Assets
CASH IN SAVINGS ACCOUNTS:
Anglo California National Banlt...................... $ 724:,747.29
Bank of America N.T. & S.A. ............................
103,686.30
Pacific National Bank of San Francisco............
54,520.04

42,831.60
7,163.27
4,889.43
4,799.30
$

393

$

105,188.84

$ 5,534,340.22
311,005.10
162,459.24
100,000.00
169,442.30
4,109.06
1,193.03
748,208.73

$ 6,282,548.25

Statement of Revenue. Year Ended. July 31, 1955
REVENUE:
$
Interest on bonds ·······················-·······················
Dividends on stock ···-··-··········-··············-·······
Interest on savings accounts ............................
Interest on notes receivable ···-······-···············
Miscellaneous ···················-··-··········-·················
$
Total Revenue ···················-···················
Expenses paid on real estate ·······-···-··············
REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO
GENERAL FUND-Exhibit D....... .
$

80,974.77
112,347.30
10,333.23
601.57
6.97
204,263.84
126.75
204,137.09

39i

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

JOHN AND LENA LUCKEN BACH FUND

GEORGE F. BRIGHA M AND LAURA E. BRIGHA M
SCHOLA RSHIP FUND

Exhibit F
by
The principal of th.is Fund, a bequest of Lena ~uckenib~ch, is ~stricted
for the
the terms of the will to be kept intact and the income is restricted
benefit of the care of orphans or the aged in Masonic Homes in Southern
Californi a.
Balance Sheet. Jul:r 31, 1955
Assets
CASH IN ANGLO CALIFOR NIA NATION AL
$ 9,314.39
BANK SAVING S ACCOUN T-·········-······-··-····--···
INVESTM ENTS (at book value):
Bonds:
$12,000 Continen tal Baking Co., 3% o/21 1980 .... $ 13,200.00
14,806.80
$16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series .r·, 1957....
$35,000 U. S. Savings Bonds,
35,000.00
series G, 2lh%, 1957 ···---·----·--··----·---··----···---Total Bonds (market value $62.931.80) ...... ..
TOT AL ASSETS ......._.. __ ........- ...............

395

ExhibitG
The princip.al of this Fund, a bequest of Laura E. Brigham, is held in trust as
, $25,000 of
a s~holarsh1p fund for the benefit of the Covina Home residents
and the income is restricted and may
which may be loaned for that pu~se,
be used only for providing scholarsh ips.
Balance Sheet, July 31, 1955
Assets
AMOUN T DUE FROM STUDEN TS' LO.AN AND
SCHOLA RSHIP FUND ...................................................................... $ 37,573.34

63,006.80
$ 72,321.1~

Principal of Fund
.._____ ,,.,............- ....-----------~--------· $ 66,265.93
_
..
185l.
31,
SALANC E. JULY
6,055.26
..............................................
IES..........
SECURIT
OF
GAIN ON SALE
BALANC E, JULY 31, 1955___................_..............:................................. $ 72,321.19
Statemen t of Revenue, Year Ended July 31. 1955
REVENU E:
---------------· $ 1,218.15
Interest on bonds - -...------·----......-...................."-·-·-··225.00
-·----··-··.............
Dividend s on Jltock._,_,,.................
172.14
lnterest on bank accounts......... __ ................................- ...·-·--------·
FUNDL
REVENU E TRANSF ERRED TO GENERA
$ 1,615.29
Exhibit D - - - - - - -.....................--:----- -·------ -

Principal of Fund
BALANC E, J'ULY 31, 1954 .AND JULY 31. 1955................... ~.--....... $ 37,573.3.

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. PERINE
ENDOWMENT FUND

Exhibit I

Exhibit H
The princi_Pal of this fund, a bequest of Florence G. Perine, is subject to the
provlSion included in the will of the testator, that the principal of the fund
shall be kept intact and the income thereof only shall be used for the benefit
of the Decoto Home.
BALANCE SHEET
July 31, 1955
Assets
INVESTMENTS :
$10,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1969-64..................$10,000.00
10,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1959...................... 10,000.00
$20,000.00
Total Securities (market value $19,113.75) .........•
$20,000.00
TOTAL ASSETS ·-·······--·--··-······-··············-····-····

Principal of Fund
BALANCE, JULY 31, 1954 AND JULY 31, 1955...•............

$20,000.00

STATEMENT OF REVENUE
Year Ended July 31, 1955
Interest from bond.a..............-···-···--···-··-··-·· -········-··-···-···-- ···-··········-' G00.00
REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO SPECIAL
FUND-Schedu le 4 ............................................- .......................$ G00.00

397

HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT
ANNUITY FUND

This fund, in th~ ~riginal amount of $30,000.00, is subject to a contract with
th~ ~onor pro.v1ding for the payment of certain life annuities out of the
principal and income ~ereof. Under the terms of the contract any principal
of the fund expende~ _in payment of the a.n nuities is to be later restored to
th~ fund when. ~nu1ties no lo1:1~er absorb the entire income. After restoration ~f the principal to the onginal sum of $30,000.00 the income from the
fund 1S flo ·be used for the benefit of the residents of the Covina Home.
BALANCE SHEET
July 31, 1955
Asaets
CASH lN ANGLO CALIFORNIA NATIONAL
uR,~Ji&'i~GS ACCOUNT........................................... .

g·. S.S. easuryBonds,
Series G, 2lk %, 1960.........•............$10,000.00
Bonds, 21,2 %, 1970-65.................,................ 5,000.00

$ 2,503.66

~vings

Total Securities (market value $14,325.63) ......... .
TOTAL ASSETS ·······--····-··········-··········-···············

15,000.00
$17,503.66

Principal of Fund
BALANCE, JULY 31, 1954....................................................
EXCESS OF ANNUITIES OVER REVENUE.................. ::
BALANCE, JULY 31, 1955......................................................

$18,407.37
903.71
$17,503.66

STATEMENT OF ANNUITIES AND REVENUE
•
Year Ended July 31, 1955
Annuities paid as required by the agreement................... .
$ 1,350.00
Lea: Revenue:
Interest on bonds.............·-····--·-·-·-··············-·······• 375.00
Interest on aavinp account.............-·-·--··--·····
71.29
446.29
EXCESS OF ANNUITIES OVER REVENUE
$ 903.71

----

399

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

C. N. FLINT TRUST FUND

STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FVND

ExhibitJ

ExhibitK

The principal of this Fund consists of gifts from C. N. Flint. The income of
t.h e Fund has been designated by the Trustees for the use of the Decoto Home.
Balance Sheet, July 31, 1955

The principal of the Fund arises from gifts. The income of the Fund is designated by the Trustees for use in student loan and scholarship purposes.

398

Assets
CASH IN ANGLO CALIFORNIA NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS ACCOUNT ·········-··········-··············································-··· $ 12,026.06
INVESTMENTS (at book value):
Bonds:
.
$ 10,000 Continental Baking Co., 3%%, 1980..... . $ 10,993.46
160,795.88
167,675 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956....... .
23,600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957........
21,479.40
2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959........
1,951.40
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
10,000.00
1955 ···················································-···
60,900 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
60,900.00
1957 ·······················-·······························
7,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%,
7,500.00
1958 ························································
9,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2¥.!%, 1970-65....
9,082.89
Total Bonds (Market value $281,260.51) ... . $282,703.03

Assets
CASH IN ANGLO CALIFORNIA NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS ACCOUNT ·········-······--··-············-··········-··-··················· $ 2,750.74
INVESTMENTS (at book value):
Bonds:
$ 5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970........ $ 5,053.81
4,000 Southern California Gas Co., 31/4%, 1970
4,144.22
5,000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971......
5,080.73
10,500 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1970-65......
10,409.99
5,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2¥.!%, 1965......·-···
5,000.00
Total Bonds (Market value $28,574.21) .......... $ 29,688.75
Preferred Stock:
Shares
527 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% ..·-············-··· $ 14,000.00
1,071.39
125 Southern California Edison Co., 4.32%......
Total Preferred Stock (Market value
$22,773.50) ···················-··········-··-······-··········· $ 15,071.39

Common Stock:
Shares
332 American Trust Co·---------·-··-··· $ 9,786.00
200 Beatrice Foods Co........- .................................
7,810.36
200 Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc.
8,875.60
200 Delaware Power & Light Co..·-·······-······-··
6,964.50
200 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp........·-····
7,584.22
125 Pacific Lighting Corp.·-··-----····-··-··-···
4,953.69
200 Philli~s Petroleum Co.·--··-··-··-······-······-···
8,148.23
533 Security-First National Bank of Los
8,831.33
Angeles ·············································-···········
253 Southern Realty Co········-··--··-··-··-······--···
399.00
Total Stock (Market value $104,829.50) .. $ 63,352.93
Total Securities (Market value
$386,090.01) ................................................

Balance Sheet, July 31, 1955

Common Stock:
Shares
125 Public Service Electric & Gas Co.
(Market value $4,156.25) ........... _............... $ 3,399.40
Total Securities (Market value $55,504.06)

48,159.54
$
50,910.28
TOTAL ASSETS ·····································-···························

Liabilities and Capital
AMOUNT DUE GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND
LAURA E. BRIGHAM SCHOLARSHIP FUKD............................ $ 37,573.34
346,055.96
$358,082.02

TOTAL ASSETS ·-········-··-·············
Principal of Fund
BALANCE. JULY 31, 195'....-··-····-······-·-·····-········-··················-······· $332,882.33
GAIN ON SALE OF SECURITIES........................................................
25,199.69
BALANCE, JULy 31, 1955...-···•-•mm••··-·...··-----··-··-··--·--···-............. $358,082.02
Statement of Revenue, Year Ended July 31, 1955
REVENUE:
Interest on bonds......................·-··············-··-········-~····-··-··-·······:....... $ 8,233.44
3,781.50
Dividends on stock.--·-····················-··············-······-··········-··········-···
317.93
Interest on bank accounL..........·-···-··-········-··--····--··-···-············
REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO SPECIAL
FUND-Schedule 4 ...................- ............................ _............... $ 12,332.87

STUDENT LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND CAPITAL:
Balance, July 31, 1954.-··-··--··-···-··-··-··············-··· $ 13,447.55
Less: Excess of grants and loans over revenue..
110.61
13,336.94
Balance, July 31, 1951L----·--··----·TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL..................·-······· $ 50,910.28
Statement of Revenue, Year Ended July 31, 1955
REVENUE:
Gifts from individuals and organizations............·-··-····-··········-··· $ 6,365.25
2,055.69
Income from securities..................·--··············-······-··-········--··-·······
69.49
Bank interest ···········································-·············································

$ 8,490.43

126.54
Less: Loss on sale of securities.---········-····················-····--······-·······
Total Revenue ·····················-·········-··-··-··-······-····················· $ 8,363.89
GRANTS AND LOANS FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES....... .
8,474.50
EXCESS OF GRANTS AND LOANS OVER REVENUE.............. $
110.61

400

. PROCEEDINgs OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

LEONARD GROSS MEMORIAL FUND

RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS

Exhibit L

ExhibitM

Balance Sheet. July 31, 1955
The principal of this fund arises from gifts made as a memorial to Leonard
Gross.
A11ets
AMOUNT DUE FROM GENERAL f'UIO>....... _................................. $
925.00

Balance Sheet, July 31, 1955

Capital
BALANCE, JULY 31, 1854 AND JULY 31, 1855.............................. $

The Fund is composed of deposits made by and held in trust
of the Covina and Decoto Homes.

401

for the residents

Aueta

CASH IN COMMERCIAL BANK ACCOUNTS:
925.00

The Covina National Bank......................·-··-············· $ 6,254.93
First Western Bank and Trust Company4,588.04
Niles Branch ·························-···································
AMOUNT DUE FROM GENERAL FUJID.. ·-·············

$ 10,842.97
12,414.90

$ 23,257.87
Capital
RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS:
Decoto ·········-··············..··-····-··-····································· $ 17,002.94
Covina ·················-················-··-·····································
6,254.93

$ 23,257.87

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Schedule 1

Page 1

Cash on Hand and in Banks, July 31, 1955

Schedule 2
INVESTMENTS
Consolidated schedule of Investments except for investments of the
Permanent Endowment Fund and the John and Lena Luckenbach Fund.

GRAND TREASURER'S COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTS:
Wells Fargo Bank..................................................·-····· $140,260.97
American Trust Company-Civic Center Office....
65,153.65
$205,414.62
GRAND TREASURER'S SAVINGS ACCOUNTS:
Anglo California National Bank..·-·····-···············-··· $510,555.60
51,257.81
Pacific National Bank of San Francisco....................
Bank of America N.T.&S.A.-Ninth and
50,000.00
Market Branch ···············································-·········
10,699.64
Bank of America N.T.&S.A.-San Rafael Branch..
622,513.05
OPERATING COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTS:
Wells Fargo Bank.......•..........·-··-····-··············-··········· $ 21,908.39
First Western Bank and Trust Company2,526.13
Niles Branch ............................................................. .
17,528.87
Security-First National Bank of Los Angeles ........
14,275.19
The Covina National Bank.-....................----------------·
56,238.58
REVOLVING FUNDS:
The Covina National Bank-Commercial Account $
Cash at Covina Home___________________________________________
Cash at Decoto Home_...........- ....-.............................

403

1,200.00
300.00
1,000.00
2,500.00

CASH IN TRANSIT FROM DECOTO AND COVINA HOMES....

3,028.98

TOTAL CASH ON HAND AND IN BANKS...................... $889,695.23

BONDS
Face Value
Book Value
Continental Baking Co., 3%%, 1980...- ...................$
8,762.50
$ 8,000
Continental Baking Co., 3% %, 1980..........................
10,993.46,FT
10,000
Contra Costa County Road, 21/4 % , 1974................
1,870.00
2,000
Dow Chemical Co., 3%, 1982......................................
2,986.50
3,000
810 South Spring Building Co., 5%, 1956................
4,450.00
5,000 .
Int. Mineral & Chemical Corp., 3.65%, 1977..........
32,680.45
31,000
5,000
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970......----···-------·
5,053.81-S
Paradise Valley Irrigation District, 4%, 1955........
1.00
1,000
Paradise Valley Irrigation District, 4%, 1956........
1.00
1,000
Southern California Edison Co., 31/.f.%, 1970........
1,009.50
1,000
Southern California Gas Co., 3% %, 197'.0....... _...
4,144.22-S
4,000
Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971......:...............
5,080.73-S
5,000
Union Oil Co. of California, 3%, 1975......................
50,000.00
50,000
U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1958...................-..... 160,795.88-FT
167,675
21,479.40-FT
U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957..........................
23,600
1,951.40-FT
U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959...........................
2,200
U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955..............
10,000.00-FT
10,000
U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1958............
1,600.00
1,600
U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1957.............. 100,000.00
100,000
U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957............
60,900.00-FT
60,900
U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1958..............
7,500.00-FT
7;500
U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959.............. 103,405.00
103,500
10,000.00-P
U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2 %, 1959..............
10,000
U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1980..............
15,300.00
15,300
U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1980..............
10,000.00-W
10,000
U.S. Savings Bonds, series K, 2.76%, 1967............
25,000.00
25,000
10,000.00-P
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1969-64......................
10,000
9,082.89-FT
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1970-85.......-.............
9,000
10,409.99-S
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1970-65...............-.....
10,500
U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1970-65...-...................
5,000.00-W
5,000
U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1985........................._.
5,000.00-S
5,000
U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1972-67........................
1,000.00
1,000
---'----Tot al Bonds.-...·-··--·--·-----·------------------------------$ 895.45'1.'13
,__.;:.;...;..;..;.;;~;.;;_-

PREFERRED STOCK

Number

of Shares

75
75
160
150
125
25
421
139
305
527
12

Canada Dry Ginger Ale, Inc., 4% % ...- ..................$
7,528.60
Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 3%% ...-.........
7,246.68
Liquid Carbonic Co., 31,2%,... _............:......._____________
12,876.40
. Merck & Co., $4.00.............--·--·-·-----·--·-------·
15,858.89
~ ~Cr~~hl:?tores Corp.! 31,2%......................................
10,226.75
m a ieson Chemical Corp., 4.25%....................
2,512.70
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 5%..................................
12,540.88
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 51,2% __,__.________
4,869.75
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%..................................
10,433.85
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%..................................
14,000.00-S
Public Service Co. of Indiana, 4.20%........................
1,262.44
---'----F ozward
... , . $ 99,358.94

1

404

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Page 2
Schedule 2

INVESTMENTS
July 31. 1955
PREFERRED STOCK

INVESTMENTS
July 31, 1955

Number
200
43
125

2

9

22
150
350

250
75
125
50
125
668
332
112
313
125
126
100
150
200
1,309
533
156
310
240
600
200
275
150
200
50
375
30

125

52,642

142

200
250
1

1,200
200

Page 3

Schedule 2

COMMON STOCK
Book Value

of Shares

Forward ·-·---·-·-·--··-··--····-··-···-' 99,356.94
Safeway Stores, Inc., 4.3% ..........................................
21,091.40
Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% .....-...........
708.26
Southern California Edison Co., 4.32%....................
1,071.39-S
Southern California Edison Co., 4.48%....................
72.00
State Guaranty Corporation........................................
366.75
United Aircra-f t Corp., 5% ..........................................
2,716.20
United States Plywood Corp., 3 3,{& %, B.·-················
13,860.68
York Corp., 41h % .......................................................... __2-'0,'-40_1_.6_6__
Total Preferred Stodr.........................................$__1_5-'9,'-64_5_.2_8__
COMMON STOCK
Air Reduction Co•..·-··--··--·········································*
Allied Chemical & Dye Corp.................................. .
Am.er~can Cyanamid Corp..........................................
American Telephone & Telegraph Co.....................
American Tobacco Co...................................................
American Trust (Ip. _____ ;___ ...............·-··········-·····
American Trust Co·-·-··---·······-·-··-··-···········-

~o08c3~o~i~--N~ti~~~i--B&iik::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Atlantic Refining Co..........-....~....................................
Bank of America N.T. & S.A...................................
Bankers Trust Co. of New York. .............................
Beatrice Foods Co·--------------------···--····------·-·--··--------·---·Beatrice Foods Co.......................-----·-----·--------·-----------··
Built-in Fixture Co.....·-·-·--·--·-·--··········---·--·--·-------·------Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp~·····················
Chase Manhattan Bank............................................... .
Chemical Corn Exchange Bank............................... .
Cleveland Electric illuminating Co........................ .
Columbia Gu System................................................. .
Columbus & Southern Ohio Electric Co................ .
Commonwealth Edison Co........................................ .
Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc...........
Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc.......... .
Continental Oil Co...................................................... .
Com Products Refining Co.........................................
Covina Irrigating Co.................................................... .
Dayton Power & Light Co....................".......•.............
Death Valley Talc Co...·------·----···-----------------·--······------Delaware Power & Light Co....................:..............
Delaware Power & Light Co...................................
Duquesne Light Co........... ------·············--------·······--------Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Association ................. .
Ewa Plantation Co...................................................... .
Food Machinery & Chemical Corp;........................
Forward ----··-·-··-···-··--··----...$

405

7,536.38
5,832.95
6,094.51
7,935.65
8,442.76
18,796.89
9,786.00-FT
1.00
11,509.05
4,097.54
4,952.50
4,550.00
7,097.88
7,810.36-FT
1.00
5,698.45
4,596.91
10,819.69
5,884.49
10,131.82
6,199.39
7,551.19
4,880.88
8,875.60-FT
3,148.90
8,362.28
32.50
4,648.19
1.00
3,444.16
6,964.50-FT
6,951.66
1.00
20,400.00
7,584.22-FT
230,621.30

Number
of Shares
180
285

40
86
128
1,000
150
423

225
7,160
300
175
6
16
2
125
350
511
247
303
200
82
627
201
25
390
50
125
100
250
125
200
125
200
248
520
125
1,629
144
110
51h
14,875
533
102
150
253
250

Book Value
Forward ···--·--·-··-····-··--·-----' 230,621.30
General Electric Co.......................................................
3,604.91
General Public Utilities Corp...................................
5,684.50
Glendora Water Co.......................................................
1,000.00
Gulf Oil Co.---·--··-·········································
4,079.15
Home Insurance Co. of New York............................
4.408.97
Honolulu Oil Corp.........................................................
77,750.00
Illinois Power Co...........................................................
5,213.28
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Co...........................
5,383.09
Kansas City Power & Light Co.................................
6,380.65
Kutz Canyon Oil & Gas Co.......................................
1,432.00
Lone Star Gas Co.........................................................
7,202.30
Manufacturers Trust Co.............................................
10,357.35
Masonic Hall Association of Alameda......................
1.00
Masonic Temple Association of Fruitvale..............
1.00
Masonic Temple Association of Stockton..............
1.00
McKesson & Robbins, Inc...........................................
4,588.56
Minnesota Power & Light Co-··-··-··-·········-········
6,025.42
New England Electric System..................................
6,551.69
New York State Electric & Gu Corp.....................
6,025.52
Niagara Mohawk Power Co.......................................
7,113.54
Norfolk & Western Ry. Co.........................................
10,655.58
Northern Illinois Gas Co.............................................
1,058.71
Northern States Power Co•........•,...............................
6,664.21
Ohio Edison Co.............................................................
6,078.63
Owens-Illinois Glass Co....•.•·-················-········-·······
1,825.40
Pacific Gas & Electric °'··········-······-··········-············
12,638.97
Pacific Lighting Corp...................................................
1,997.75
Pacific Lighting Corp...·-············································
4,953.69-FT
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co...........................
13,668.62
Parke, Davis & Co.......................................................
9,749.75
Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc...·-··-··--··········-············-·····
4,156.19
Philadelphia Electric Company................................
7,645.13
Philip Morris & Co., Ltd......"-··-·····-····-·······-······
6,529.32
Phillips Petroleum Co.................................................
8,148.23-FT
Public Service Co. of Indiana..................................
6,440.26
Public Service Electric & Gas Co...........................
12,929.79
Public Service Electric & Gas Co.............................
3,399.40-S
River Farms of California.........................................
48,870.00
Rochester Gas & Electric Corp.................................
6,098.00
St. Joseph Lead Co.............·--·--············-····-···......
5,140.03
San Dimas Co ...............-................................................
1,072.50
Searchlight Consolidated Mining & Milling Co.....
1.00
Security-First National Bank of Los Angeles........
8,831.33-FT
Shell Oil Co.....................•.....·-······························-·······
3,500.12
Southern California Edison Co.................................
5,127.58
Southern Realty Co.......................................................
399.00-FT
Standard Brands, Inc...................................................
5,603.87
Forward

------·--··--··-··-·-·--•¥·•-··.$ 596,608.29

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Page 4
Schedule 2
INVESTMENTS
July 31, 1955
Number
of Shares
211
125
250
275
248
125
175
1,350
400
338

COMMON STOCK
Book Value
Forward ---------··--··-·······----.$ 596,608.29
8,412.09
Standard Oil Co. of Califo:i:nia.............--····-··-··-·····
4,952.98
Sterling Drµg Co...·-··---······-··-·· ..··-··.......................
5,714.08
-.....................
....
......
Union Electric Co. of Missouri.
Union Oil Co. of California........................................ 10,319.07
5,962.62
United Gas Corp, _________ ...........................................
5,226.21
United Shoe Machinery Corp.....................................
5,995.19
Utah Power & Light Co....-.........................................
Waialua Agricultural Co........................-................... 11,287.50
West Penn Electric Co·-·--------·-·-···-······-·-···· 10,555.48
6,375.85
Wisconsin Electric Co..·-·-----········--------·---····-·--·--·
Total Common Stoc:k..........................................$ 671,409.36
Total Stock ·····-··-··-··-··-···························--··----$ 831,0154,64
TOTAL JHVESTMEHTS....................................$1,526,512.37

NOTE: The above consolidated statement includes all the securities of the
Masonic Homes of California, except those in the Permanent Endowment Fund (see Schedule 3) and the John and Lena Luckenbach
Fund (see Exhibit F). The securities above are coded for the following funds:
FT-C. N. Flint Trust Fund....... _...............................$ 346,055.96
P -George M. and Florence Perine Endowment
20,000.00
Fund ........................................................................
48,159.54
S -Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund...........
W -Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity
15,000.00
Fund ........................................................................
(uncoded) General Fund .............................................. 1,097,296.87
TOTAL INVESTMENTS (as above)..............$1,526,512.37

407

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
Schedule 3
Investments, July 31, 1955
Book Value
Bonds
Face Value
$ 45,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment Trust, 2%%, 3/1/60 ..$ 44,999.81
4,999.98
5,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment Trust, 2% %, 9/1/60..
24,287.32
25,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment Trust, 21h%, 1961....
50,000 Chicago, Burlington, & Quincy R.R. Equipment Trust,
49,440.83
2%%, 1965 ........................................................................... .
50,000 Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust,
49,467.25
. series N, 2%. % , 1962....... _ .........................................- ...
10,993.46
10,000 Continental Baking Co., 3% %, 1980-...................................
25,000 Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R.R. Equipment
24,855.24
Trust, series K, 3%, 1962..........·-··-··-------------··------·
15,281.25
15,000 Dow Chemical Company, 3%, 1982....................................... .
49,035.14
50,000 Great Northern Ry., 2nd Equipment Trust, 2% %, 1968..
40,000 Illinois Central R.R. Equipment Trust, series 35, 2o/4 %,
39,706.74
5/1/62 ....................................................................................
10,000 Illinois Central R.R. Equipment Trust, series 35, 2o/4 %,
9,887.66
11/1/62 ..................................................................................
50,000 Illinois Central R.R. Equipment Trust, series 40, 2% %,
49,219.00
1964 ........................................................................................
71,153.07
67,000 International Minerals & Chemical Corp., 3.65%, 1977....
50,000 Louisville & Nashville R.R. Equipment Trust, series L,
49,892.21
2%%, 1962 ............................................................................
25,000 Minneapolis, St. Paul & S. St. Marie R.R. Equipment
24,896.36
Trust, 31Ai % , 1962................................................................
24,999.68
25,000 Nortl!ern Pacific Ry. Equipment Trust, 3%, 1963..............
50,000 Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R.R. Equipment Trust, 2o/4 %,
49,748.77
1961 ........................................................................................
50,000 St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Equipment Trust, 2% %,
50,078.85
1959 ....................................................................................... .
49,607.87
50,000 Seaboard Air Line R.R. Equipment Trust, 2% %, 1962....
2,002.50
2,000 Southern California Edison Co., 3¥4 %, 1970....................... .
98,080.48
100,000 Southern Pacific R.R. Co. Equipment Trust, 2% % , 1965..
25,000 Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. Equipment Trust, series P,
24,252.18
2% % • 1962 ·--··-··-··-·-··-··--··--··-·-·················........
130,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956........................................ 125,060.00
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957-......................... 100,000.00
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958.·-··-··-··-··········· 100,000.00
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959............................ 100,000.00
980,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960..-....................... 980,000.00
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1961............................ 100,000.00
200,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series K, 2.76%, 1966.......................... 200,000.00
75,000.00
75,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series K, 2.76%, 1/1/67......................
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series K, 2.76%, 3/1/67...................... 100,000.00
100,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1961.......................................... 100,893.83
160,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, Investment series A, 21h%, 1965.. 160,000.00
165,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1969-64.................................... 166,793.52
12,079.67
12,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, series B, 2%. %, 1980-75....................
4,868.37
5,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1972-67......- ........................,,..
147,000 U.S. Treasury Notes, series B, 1%.%, 1955.............-........... 147,000.00
Total Bonds -·-··---··-------------··---··-··-·-··-···-.$3,288.181.CM

408

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
Schedule 3
Investments, July 31, 1955

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Number
of Shares
Preferred Stock
180 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, Inc. H'.&'% ••-·-··································.$
180 Food Machinery & Chemical Co., 3~%·············-··········-·····
10 Healdsburg General Hospital-·········-·-··················-·················
240 Liquid Carbonic Corp., 3%% ..................................... - ......•........
325 McCrory Stores, 31h % ................................................................... .
150 Merck & Co., Inc., $4.00................................................................. .
60 Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp., 41/4% •.•..•..•••.......·-···-·····-·····
558 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 6% ......................................... .
96 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 5%% ..................................... .
29 Public Service Co. of Indiana, 4.32% ......................................... .
100 Safeway Stores, Inc., $4.30........................................................... .
180 United Aircraft Corp., 5% ........................................................... .
200 United States Plywood Corp., B, 3%. %.•...........................•........

409

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

18,068.40
17,543.07
1.00
18,544.66
26,030.23
14,847.91
6,030.65
15,855.75
2,430.00
3,054.15
10,547.50
19,680.41
17,691.20

Total Preferred Stock. ...................•.........................•........•$ 170,324.93

Number
of Shares
Common Stock
Book Value
1,100 Air. Reduction Company, Inc.--···--······-·-··-················-·····* 30,752.49
23,489.96
280 Allied Chemical & Dye Corp.......................................................
675 American Cyanamid Co................. ·-·············································
32,532.26
1,000 American Gas & Electric Company............................................
39,789.25
41,348.03
248 Amer~can Telephone & Telegraph Company..........................
25,384. 77
375 American Tobacco Company........................................................
750 Anglo California National Bank..................................................
27,559.48
9,813 09
300 Atlantic Refining Company..........................................................
1,140:00
30 Bank of America N.T.&S.A..........................................................
10,920 00
240 Bankers Trust Company of New York...................................,..
12,992:69
360 Beatrice Foods Corp.......................................................................
13,623.00
1,280 Central Hudson Gas & Electric Company................................
11,062.50
375 Chase Manhattan Bank..................................................................
10,440.00
264 Chemical Corn Exchange Bank..................................................
12,859.28
576 Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company................................
17,032.90
1,000 Columbia Gas System............................................ :.......................
23,425.94
800 Columbus & Southern Ohio Electric Company......................
18,856.54
680 Commonwealth Edison Company..............................................
11,695.93
360 Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc...................
5gg Cons?ffiers Power Company........................................................
20,414.49
5
Continental Can Co.........................................................................
38,896.49
19,625 16
320 Continental Oil Company..............................................................
19,904:96
900 Corn Products Refining Company..............................................
32,784.88
800 Dayton Power & Light Company................................................
18, 766.82
646 Delaware Power & Light Company............................................
16,683 78
600 Duquesne Light Company............................................................
24,634°75
500 Fire Assn. of Philadelphia............................................................
1,000 First National City Bank of N. Y·-·····················-··--··-··-··-·····
54,052.31
100 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp. .......................-...................
4,741:61
14,484.06
720 General Electric Company............................................................
15,891.77
757 General Public Utilities Corp.......................................................
32,808.06
800 W. R. Grace & Co.............................................................................
1.00
1 Granada Masonic Temple Association......................................
316 Gulf Oil Corporation ..................................................................... ~
15,174.26
12,615.54
300 Home Insurance Co.........................................................................
5,620.00
80 Honolulu Oil Corp...........................................................................
31,256.80
768 Illinois ~ower Company................................................................
42 Internat10nal Paper Company......................................................
23,826.55
37,208 99
1,500 Irving Trust Company..................................................................
15,011:91
1,271 Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Co.............................................
15,171.59
539 Kansas City Power & Light Company......................................
25,815.40
1,000 Lone Star Gas Company................................................................
9,540.00
180 Manufacturers Trust Company....................................................
20 Masonic Temple Association of California................................
2.00
53,584.57
1,500 May Department Stores Co..·-··-·-····--··-·································
800 McKesson & Robbins, Inc........................................................ :....
32,481.16
2,000 Merck & Co., Inc.---·-······-········.................................................
41,233.86
14,430.22
840 Minnesota Power & Light Company..........................................
26,817.48
700 Montana Power Company............................................................
30 J. P. Morgan & Co., Inc................................................... ·-···········
5,416.25
100 National Shawmut Bank of Boston............................................
2,654.31
15,716.65
1,226 New England Electric System......................................................
594 New York State Electric & Gas Corp··-················-··-··-······-···
14,549.71
17,240.19
726 N~ara Mohawk Power Company............................................
200 No olk & Western Ry. Co.--·--··-···-··--·····..·--······--·········
10,668.09
Forward ·············-·-····················································-·······$1,114,443.78

410

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Schedule4

Schedule 3

Investments, July 31, 1955
Forward --------··-····-····-·····--····-········-················-·--·-········$1,114,443.78
204 Northern Illinois Gas Co--··:·-··-····-··-··-··-··-········--··-··-·-···
2,666.93
21,372.65
500 Northern Natural Gas Co..·--········----···-·········-··-·····················
1,485 Northern States Power Company................................................
15,622.09
480 Ohio Edison Company....................................................................
14,537.52
26,107.54
360 Owens-Illinois Glass Company....................................................
287 Pacific Gas & Electric Company..................................................
10,331.65
338 Pacific Lighting Cor:p.·-·--······-·-·················--································
13,288.13
206 Pacific Telephone & 'l'elegraph Co•...........................-...............
28,140.73
600 Parke, Davis & Co...........................................................................
23,395.12
600 Pennsylvania Power & Light Company.............................. ·-···
22,939.19
875 Chas. Pfizer Co.............·-··-····-····································-·················
30,414.65
18,347.19
480 Philadelphia Electric Company·-··--··-···-······-······-···-··-··-···
300 Philip Morris, Inc·-·-·-·--··········-··-··-···················-··················-···
15,659.07
12,329.70
250 Phillips Petroleum Company·-·-···········-···········-·······················
594 Public Service Company of Indiana..·-························-···········
15,418.82
31,178.44
1,245 Public Service Electric & Gas Company..................................
800 Radio Corporation of America..............•. _........ -··············-······-29,832.52
900 Rochester Gas & Electric Corp·--·····--·--·······-·············-········-···
39,808.39
500 Royal Dutch Petroleum......·-····-··-·····-·-····-···'·················-··--··
35,210.40
824 St. Joseph Lead Company.............-.............................................
34,216.08
1 San Gabriel Masonic Temple Association..,.............................
1.00
1.00
1 Santa Ana Masonic Temple Association............................... _...
67 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles..........................
1,173.67
25,503.49
546 Shell Oil Companf···········-·····················-·························-·············
435 Southern California Edison Company.....................-.................
14,424.11
36,236.38
2,000 Southern Company ···············-··········-······················-···················
11.00
4 Southern Realty Company............................................................
13,203.65
600 Standard Brands, Inc.............................-··-············-·····················
462 Standard Oil Company of California............·-·-··-···············-·····
5,468.80
411 Standard Oil Company of Ohio.......-······················-···················
18,700.15
300 Sterling Drug Company..........·-·····-········································-···
11,888.60
1,200 Title Insurance & Trust Company......................................·-·····
37,500.00
912 Union Electric Company of Missouri............·-········-·······-······
22,820.36
25,952.88
682 Union Oil Company of California._...........................................
1,000 United Biscuit Company of America..........................................
34,163.10
1.00
467 United Centrifugal Pumps............................................................
641 United Gas Corporation................................................................
14,022.82
12,514.80
300 United Shoe Machinery Corp.·--··-··-····---······-·:..,.,_................
525 Utah Power & Light Company....................................................
18,036.16
1,100 Virginia Electric & Power Company.............:....................·-····32,251.24
1 Vista Masonic Temple Association.............................-·-·······--···
1.00
34,954.48
1,600 West Penn Electric Company......................................................
16,019.62
850 Wisconsin Electric Power Company..................·-·····················
Total Common Stoc:k....................................................- •.-.$1,930,109.90
Total Stocks ·········-······-···············-····-------·-··--·-···············Al00,"34.83
TOT AL SECURITIES ----................................- ............... $5,389,015.87

411

Reserves for Special Purposes, July 31, 1955
RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS:

B~~~~st~Zi~~~t:Ji;;·resei:ve.il:Y-Trii8tee&::::::::::-·1257;s95:42 $552,804.89
Le11: Charges to reserve:
Additions to Decoto Home..............$ 88,118.06
Additions to Covina Home.............. 17,592.44
Replacements at Decoto Home........ 3,524.65
Replacements at Covina Home...... 13,993.32
Total ,additions and replacements..................
123,228.47
Increase in Reserve..·--·--·---···---·-····················-············-··-··-·····-

134,366.95

Balance, July 31, 1955-Exhibit C ......- .........- ........- ..............·-·--· $687,171.84
COVINA SPECIAL FUND:
Balance, July 31, 1954............................·-····························-··········-··· $120,166.33
Bequests allocated to Fund by Trustees.............. $104,863.48
Contributions for Home...-.......................................
365.00
Net income from real estate received from
bequests allocated to Fund by Trustees............
3,300.01
$108,528.49
Less: Charges to Fund:
Additions to Covina Home..............$ 1,320.71
Replacements to Covina Home...... 5,654.92
Summer camp expense................... . 1,476.67.
Miscellaneous expenditures for
special benefit of residents.......... 3,691.22
Transfer to Permanent Endowment F'und-Exhibit E ..·-············· 100,000.00
112,143.52
3,615.03
Decrease in Reserve·--·---·-··-···········---·--···-··-······-·--··
Balance, July 31, 1955-Exhibit C------··-·--·-----··----·---··-··· $116,551.30
DECOTO SPECIAL FUND:
Balance, July 31, 1954..........................·-·····--····································· $ 39,905.17
Bequests allocated to Fund by Trustees.........-... $ 15,937.79
12,332.87
C. N. Flint Trust Fund income-Exhibit J..........
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment
Fund income-Exhibit H..·-·--··--··----·--··
500.00
Net income from real estate received from
bequests allocated to Fund by Trustees..........
43.33
$ 28,813.99
Less: Charges to Fund:
Additions to Decoto Home..............$
500.00
Miscellaneous expenditures for
special benefit of residents..........
129.21
629.21
28,184.78
Increase in Reserve·-··-··--····-·-··-······-········-·---·-·········---·-···--·-·
Balance, July 31, 1955-Exhibit
$ 68,089.95

C_____

----·-·-·

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Schedule 4
Reserves for Special Purposes, July 31, 1955
FUNERAL FUND:
Balance, July 31, 1954.......................- ..........•..•..................•..............:... $ 47,700.00
Amounts transferred from Unappropriated
Reserve ·······-··············································-··········· $ 8,862.86
5,562.86
Less: Funeral expense..............................................
Increase in Fund·-··-····································-······················-······-···
3,300.00
Balance, July 31, 1955-Exhibit C ...................·-··········--······-···-..···· $ 51,000.00
ENTERTAINMENT FUND:
Balancer July 31, 1954................................................................... _..... :. $ 11,704.61
Contributions .......................-................................... $ 9,748.09
Leu: Entertainment expense of Decoto and
Covina Homes........................................................
14,821.83
Decrease in Fund.-·····································-·························-·····-···
5,073.74
Balance, July 31, 1955-Exhibit C .._ ........................................._...... $ 6,630.87
UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE:
Balance, July 31, 1954............................................................................ $248,231.61
Assets assigned by residents of Home on
admission ................................................................ $ 95,101.99
Pensions assigned by residents of Home..............
65,739.35
Profit on sale of real estate and proceeds of
life insurance poli~ies............................................
31,047.04
Deposits of deceased residents................................
3,725.04
Income fn?m. real estate assigned by residents
on admission ..........................................................
948.25
$196,561.67
Leu: Charges to reserve:
Monthly grants to residents............$ 19,485.00
Amounts transferred to Funeral
Fund ............................................ :... 8,862.86
Real estate and insurance expense 1,521.91
29,869.77
Increase in Reserve............................................................................ 166,691.90
Balance, July 31, 1955-Exhibit C-··-····-···-·········.......................... $414,923.51

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF9RNIA

413

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Schedule 5
Expenses. Dates As Shown
DECOTO OPERATING EXPENSE
Year Ended
Increase
July 31, 1955 July 31, 1954 (Decrease)
Maintenance ............................................$153,206.39 $145,243.58 $ 7,962.81
Hospital and medical.............................. 113,471.54
102,367.86
11,103.68
Fann and garden.................................... 24,915.07
25,225.23
(310.16)
399.75
Laundry ·····-·---···································· 10,878.76
10,479.01
(422.54)
Heating plant ·-······································· 13,306.50
13,729.04
Paint shop ................................................ 3,984.99
4,624.39
(639.40)
General and administrative.................. 84,443.19
78,018.02
6,425.17
Total Operating Expeme..........$404,206.44 $379,687.13 $24,519.31
Leas: Farm production and sundry
revenue ................................................ 11, 770.65
12,688.05
(917.40)
NET OPERATING EXPENSE
-Exhibit D ..............................$392,435.79 $366,999.08 $25,436.71
COVINA OPERATING EXPENSE:
Maintenance -·--·····························$ 89,838.07
Hospital and medical.............................. 9,082.47
Farm and grounds.................................. 18,815.19
Laundry .................................................... 5,508.27
Power plant ............................................ 6,672.23
Repairs to buildings................................ 21,980.63
General and administrative.................. 31,809.17

$ 83,695.55
9,496.53
19,800.15
5,531.50
5,585.08
19,181.34
30,503.85

$ 6,142.52
(414.06)
(984.96)
(23.23)
1,087.15
2,799.29
1,305.32

$173, 794.00

$ 9,912.03

Total Operating Expeme..........$183,706.03
Leu: Farm production and sundry
revenue -·r·-·-··-··-··-····-·-···-······ 5, 731.36
NET OPERATING EXPENSE
-Exhibit D ..............................$177,974.67

4,890.02

841.34

$168,903.98

$ 9,070.69

RELIEF OUTSIDE OF MASONIC
HOMES-Exhibit D ..............................$ 17,223.70

$ 15,630.87

$ 1,592.83

ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL EXPENSE:
Insurance •.................................................$ 13,968.24
Office salaries ........................................ 11,700.00
Field investigations .............................. 10,558.37
Pensions for retired employees............ 7,003.80
Taxes on payroll8.................................... 6,462.92
Trustees expenses .................................. 2,006.40
Legal fees -·-··-·-···-··-···-······················ 1,565.40
Audit fees ................................................ 1,120.00
Safekeeping securities .......................... 1,328.40
0.ffice supplies and printing.................. 2,435.96
Taxes on Homes...................................... 1,559.79
Miscellaneous ..............•........................... 1,462.37

$ 15,781.44
9,000.00
9,258.26
6,568.80
5,323.77
2,773.89
3,513.18
1,120.00
1,200.00
1,784.04
511.60
3,046.48

$(1,813.20)
2,700.00
1,300.11
435.00
1,139.15
(767.49)
(1,947.78)

TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE
AND GENERAL EXPENSE
-Exhibit D ..............................$ 61,171.65

i 591881.46

~

128.40
651.92
1,048.19
(1,584.11)

11290.19

414

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT
August 29,1955
To the Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
Masonic Temple
25 Van Ness Avenue
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have examined the balance sheet of the CALIFORNIA MASONIC
MEMORIAL TEMPLE (a California Non-Profit Corporation) as of July 31,
1955, and the related statement of income and expenses for the year then
ended. We have also examined the records of the building operations as
maintained by James Hurst Co., in its capacity as property managers. Our
examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
The California Masonic Memorial Temple was incoryorated under the
"General Non-Profit Corporation Law" of the State of California on January
6, 1954. Its primary purpose is to hold title to that certain real property upon
which a building to ·b e known as the California Masonic Memorial Temple is
to be erected, to collect income therefrom, and to turn over the entire amount
thereof, less expenses, to the Endowment Fund of Masonic Homes of California, a charitable non-profit corporation.
'
Contributions received during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1955, for the
erection of the new memorial temple amounted to $728,181.57, which amount
has been added to the capital of the Corporation as shown on Exhibit A.
Net income from operations during the year amounted to $15,017.63, as shown
by Exhibit B. Thus, contributions and net income provided total funds during
the year of $743.199.20. Of this amount $103,500.00 was used to pay off the
balance of the mortgage on the temple site, $351.92 was expended for costs
incident to the new temple, and the balance of $639,347.28 was added to the
amount on deposit in banks, thus increasing that amount from $400,183.78 as
at July 31, 1954, to $1,039,531.06 at July 31, 1955, as shown on Exhibit A.
The total contributions received to July 31, 1955, for the erection of the
new memorial temple, amounted to $1,768,337.12. Of this amount $939,628.55
represents contributions received from individual Masons subsequent to
August 1, 1953. Contributions from individual Masons are collected by the
California Masonic Memorial Temple Committee of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M., and are immediately turned over to the Memorial Temple corporation. The Committee reports unpaid contribution pledges at July 31,
1955, of approximaaely $195,000.00. Unpaid pledges are not taken into account
as an asset by the Memorial Temple corporation until collected by-the Committee and turned over to it. The entire amount collected on pledges will be
available for the cost of erecting the new temple inasmuch as all the expenses
of the Temple Committee are paid from funds appropriated out of the revenues of Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.
The audit report for the previous year was prepared on a modified
accrual basis of accounting. ThJS report for the current year ended July 31,
1955, has been preJ?ared on the cash basis of accounting, the basis upon which
the annual financial statements of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. and the
Masonic Homes of California are prepared. The change in accounting method
required a retroactive adjustment reducing the net loss as shown for the year
ended July 31 1954, by the amount of $1,598.87. Otherwise the change in
accounting haa1 no significant effect upon the financial statements appearing
in this report.
There were no unpaid liabilities at the end of the year other than current
bills of a nominal amount in connection with the operation of the properties
and legal and organization expense not in excess of $3,000 in connection
with the formation of the Memorial Temple corporation. The only material

415

commitment existing at the end of the year with respect to the cost of the new
tem~le was an agreement dated April 14; 1953, with Albert F. Roller, ·the
~ch1tect of the new temple, to perform architectural and engineering services.. ~e agreement calls for 20% of the architect's fee to be paid when the
prelimm~ ske~ches ar~ co~pleted and accepted. The Memorial Tem le
corporation received an invo1c~ under date of August 22, 1955, for the r:Est
payment under the agreement in the amount of $50,000.00.
The &resent ti:nants on ~e new. temple site at California and Taylor
S~ee:, an Francl!!co, are being notified to vacate prior to the end of the
ca en ar year. 1~55, in order to make way for the erection of the temple
d In our opiruon, the ac;companying balance sheet and statement of in~ome
an . ~xpenses pres~nt f~irly, on ~he cash basis of accounting, the financial
pos1t1on of th.e Califo~ Masoruc Memorial Temple at July 31 1955 and
the results of its opera.tion fC?r the year then ended in conformity ~ith g~nerally accepted accounting principles.
'
Very truly yours.
SKINNER & HAMMOND
Certified Public Accountants
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
Exhibit A
Balance Sheet July 31, 1955
CASH ON DEPOSIT IN BANKS~SETS
Commercial accounts:
·
Bank of America N. T. & S A..
$ 7' 724 42
Th Bank f C lif
.
.
------······-···
.
.e
o
a orn1a, N. A...-..
··-·
11,231 65
S avmgs
accounts:
·
ga~ o:=ica .N. ~· & S. A....-.~····-··-····-··- 192,007.60
Pa ifl o N ti ofi:• . A.-···-···-·····-:·--··········-··· 418,911.25
~ ~ a.fi.:t Cank of San Francisco.............. 127,342.95
1
WeJh F~ 0 ~mpany...........·-·························· 219,238.84
Trust accou!t of JamesHuni··e:c;:·as-p;c)p;rty:······· 60,600.00
manager - - - - - · · - · · · - · · - - - - - - · · - · 2,474.35
PROPERTIES:
$1,039,531.06
Real Estate ~t Califo;rnia and Taylor Streets San
C ts !r~clS{o, California ···-···-····-····-·····:.........$731.603 90
os inc1 en to new temple..·-····--··········-····-·····- u,005:51
742,609.41
TOTAL ASSETS
$1,782,140.47
------··-··-----··-·····CAPITAL
CONTRIBUTIONS:
Rece~vedd prior to August 1. 1954..·-··-··········--···:....
$1,040,155.55
ece1ye_ current year ended July 31, 1955:
ind1v1dl;ltaal
cfo$n
tr
ib0-u
tions
·····-···-···-····--····-···-···--$435,021.
57
P er cap1 o 1.0
1954 annual returns of
Ltod$9g0e0-,
F.p& A. M ...............·---··-····-····-· 216,347.00
lniGtranted
ia s a
.
ayments on
annual returns of Grand Lodge, F. & A. M..... 76,813.00
728,181.57
$1, 768,337 .12
NET Jc~~i1I:b~~);····-······················-····-·········

R

NNet l?ss to July 31, 195-i.......·-··-···--·····-··--····-·····* (1,214.28)
et income for the year ended July 31 1955Exhibit B ··-····-··--····-····-··········-····-··-: ·--··-··· 15,017.63
TOTAL CAPITAL···········-····-···-····-·- ··--··-·

13,803.35
$1,782,140.47

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

416

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
ExhlbitB
Statement of Income and Expenses Year Ended July 31, 1155

u~

Total Income ···-···-······-··-·····-···-············-·················

~r:;~: ~~le~P:!r0~:~ ~~:...................... l·~i~·gg
0

Managemen~ f~s ·-·--···-···-·····-····-··•··..................

'304:SO
Lease commlSsions
·-·············-··············-····-968 71
Light, heat, Power and water.·-·-·············:··-············-···- 2,397:50
Elevator maintenance ······-·--····-······•··········-····-··-·-···
656.83
Repairs ·· ·-···-··-··········-··-··-········--··--··-···49.63
Supplies ---······---··'.·-----·-···-·······-·-··-····-········-·224.00
GardenE!f" ~-·····-·-···-·----··-··-··-··-··········-··-···········165 10
Scavenger --··-··-··-··········-···-···--······-··-·-···-··-··'."···········
120:00
Police patrol ·······························-·········-·······-·····················
Taxes:
Real estate and personal property................................ 15' 243 ·32
22
Payroll ·---·-················-·····~·-·········-··-·-··-···-···············
6g::59

E~~f
.:::::~:::::::::~:::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::. i~·.i~ $24.132.86
Total Ezpenaes................................................................
$ 5,033.44

o=s:ro~o~s bank acco~ts········-············-···········•11,m·:l

Interest on certificate of depo11t........................................$1l,if5S:64

o=~=ge........................... - ............$
Audit fees :·-··-·-·····-·······-····-··········-········-···

969.48
800.0

1,769.45
9,984.19

NET INCOME, TRANSFERRED TO CAPITAL-

EXlIIBIT A ···-···-····-····-·--····-··--··············--···············

DECOTO, CALIFORNIA

Annual Report 1954-1955

INRCC~~:~~~~;:~~~~~~~~ompany::::$29,13tgg $29,166.30

NET INCOME FROM PROPERTY OPERATIONS....... .

417

$15,017.63

Names of Residents-MEN-Average Age: 79.59
•Indicates admission during current year.
NBme
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Albers, George R ...........Feb. 17, '45 California.......... 1 San Francisco ....87
Anderson, Alfred H .....Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ....82
Anderson, John B.• ......July 14, '55 Athens ................228 Davis ....................90
Baril, Leon J ...................Feb. 22, '.52 Jas. A. Foshay..641 Los Angeles ........63
Barr, George W .............May 24, '54 Sacramento ...... 40 Sacramento ........73
Bassett, Henry N .............Jlll!.. 6, '50 Santa Paula......291 Santa Paula ........80
Batt, Saul C .....................June 2, '52 Starr King ........344 San Francisco ....78
Baumgardner, Will L .....Jan. 12, '52 Pajaro ..............-110 Watsonville ...-.-90
Beckmann, Carl A. ..........May 3, '51 Liberty _ .........-299 Santa Clara ........72
Bellina, Charles H ...........Oct. 26, '53 Le Progres De
L'Oceanie..371 Honolulu ..............85
Boggs, Frederick H .....•.Aug.10, '47 Bethlehem ........453 San Francisco ....80
Buffington, Will C.........June 22, '53 Fort Crook ........575 Fall River Mills 65
Buhlinger, Wm. F. • ....._.Apr. 23, '55 Oriental ............144 San Francisco ....82
Burke, Harold E .............July 23, '49 York ..................423 Los Angeles ........62
Campbell, Archibald• ..Dec. 22, '54 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ....82
Childs, Clarence E ...........Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto ..........346 Palo Alto ............95
Casey, Newman H.• ......Mar. 24, '55 Santa Barbara ..192 Santa Barban ....78
Cicero, Carmel ..............Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ·················--74
Collins, Wm. W ...............Sept. 22, 46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ....89
Condoni Wilbert S.........Jan.11, '42 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............79
Cowan, Will E. ................July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........86
Dahlgren, Bengt L. • ......July 22,'55 Fellowship ........480 Oakland ·--····-···89
Date, Harrington S .........Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ..............601 Portola ·---··--···87
Davidson, Thomas A.• ....Apr. 4. '55 North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ··-·-87
Dixon, Edgar A ............Nov.19, '48 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ••....•.-..-.81
Dowdall, Frederick w ...Aug. 3, '43 Solano ···-···········229 Vallejo ···-······-···'15
Drew, Jos. Wm.• ............Jan. 27, '55 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento ........85
Duncan, Cary G ...............Dec. 3, '53 Fresno ................247 Fresno .••.•.............71
Elder, James R •..............Dec. 13, '50 Abell -·····-·····---148 Ukiah ..................81
Epstein, Louis N .............Mar. 4, '54 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............89
Felton, Wilson K .............July 1, '48 Calexico ............412 Calexico ..............88
Foss, Alexander ............Oct. 21, '52 Standard ............440 Oakland .......,...._89
Frare, Giacomo ............... .Apr. 1, '51 Speranza
Italiana..219 San Francisco ...•'14
Frost, Frank M. ............June 25, '52 Temple City ....612 Temt>le City ···-··-84
Frost, Harold G ...............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ···········-···537 Los Angeles ........65
Gallagher, Wm.• ..........Aug. 17, '54 Clovis ................417 Clovis ..................90
Gelston, Hollister ........Sept. 12, '49 Mission .......•...-169 San Francisco ....83
Gerard, David J.• ........Oct. 27, '54 Stanislaus ........206 Modesto .............. 79
Godfrey, Henry S.........July 25, '54 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ...............84
Galvin, Wm. A• ........July 23, '55 Oriental ............144 San Francisco......85
Greaves, Walter ............Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............86
Green, Robert Oscar• ....Oct. 14, '54 Santa Monico .... 307 Santa Monica .... 72
Grogan, Robert G .........Aug. 11, '53 Hollywood ........355 Hollywood ..........63
Halpin, Robert L .........Oct. 23, '53 Silver Trowel ..415 Los Angeles ......•.82
Hannum, Alexander .... Nov. 28, '52 Ha!'ding ·······-··-584 Los Angeles _......85
Hansell. Calvin E. ........ Nov. 18, '50 Mission ..............169 San Francisco _•.83
Harth, Arthur P .............Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay ........... _.416 Lindsay ................81
Hendricks, Alfred ..._...Nov. 17, '50 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ..............74
Hepburn, Robert............ Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ..........637 Santa Monica ....66
Hiltner, Harry B ....- ...Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ........435 San Francisco ....88

418

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
72
........
Angeles
Los
Holmes, Emil A. ..............Nov. 9, '53 Golden State ....358 Sacramento ........81
40
......
Sacramento
'52
21,
.Feb.
........
W
James
Howard,
..............75
Hufstedler, Charles ......Mar. 5, '54 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa
......78
Hammonton
433
......
Hammonton
'52
27,
Dec.
Huling, Wallace S .........
....69
Francisco
San
344
........
King
Starr
'47
15,
Hyman, Milton ............Dec.
....76
Francisco
San
Jack, Charles P .......•.... .Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ·········-···354 San Francisco ....82
Jefts, Benjamin J .......Oct. 27, '48 Justice ..............549 San Pedro ..........68
Johnson, Einar M.........Sept. 19, '51 Point Firman ....558 Holtville ..............73
Jones, Howard T .........Aug. 14, '53 Holtville ............425 San Rafael ..........91
Joiner, Wm. B .............. .Feb. 11, '47 Marin ···-······-···191
Los Angeles ........85
Keen, Cassius H ........ -.Dec. 15, '51 University ........394 Wilmington
........85
Ketcheson, Horace ......Mar. 17, '50 Wilmington ...... 198 Hermosa Beach 77
Knox, Frederick• ....... -.Aug. 12, '54 Hermosa ·········--557
..........63
Lawrence, Edward S .....Mar. 22, '47 Inglewood ........421 Inglewood
74
..............
Burbank
·······-···406
Lewis, Herbert W. • ......Nov. 5, '54 Burbank
....85
Lobban, William ............Aug. 8, '52 Park ·······-·········449 San Francisco
Lothrop, Harry 0 .........Aug. 20, '53 Bay View ~....... _401 Oakland ·······-···-72
.....•.........•.•'17
Martin, William S .........Mar. 20, '51 Western Star .... 2 Shasta
...............87
Mesa.
La
_.407
.........
Mesa
La
'35
10.
July
.......
C
Elbert
Matthews,
···-·····-91
Jose
San
.210
.......
Friendship
'51
15,
.Aug.
.....................
May, Fred
Centro ···-·······94
Mayfield, Isaac• ..........Nov. 3, '54 El Centro ..........384 El
..........64
McLean, Lawrence ......Apr. 4, '54 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne
........69
Angeles
Los
506
..........
Olive
Mt.
'55
McNamara, Thos. Jos.• Apr. 1,
....81
Francisco
San
30
......
Gate
Golden
Mearns, John C .............Mar. 3, '47
San Francisco ....82
Menke, William ............Nov. 26, '49 Richmond ..........375 S'n
77
Mitchell, Edward L. • ... .Dec. 20, '54 San Bernardino 348 DalyBernardino
City .......•...•63
Millar, James F . ............Nov. 30, '53 Crocker ..............454 Westwooo ............75
Murray, James B .........Apr. 17, '53 Westwood ........501
Nabhan, Charles• ........May 14. '55 Warren G.
Harding..579 N. Sacramento....74
494 Oakland ..............91
..................
Acorn
'55
Nicholson, John C. • ......Apr. 16,
483
....................
Bell
Bell ···-·················94
Nixon, Robert D ...........Apr. 25, '47
....68
Nordstrom, David P .......Nov. 3, '52 Doric ..................216 San Francisco
..........79
Oakley, Charles W ... _ .Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus .........•..129 Wheatland
O'Brien, William P .......Mar. 8, '54 Elsinore ............289 Elsinore ·····-·······75
............85
Orr, Robert H. • ..........June 20, '55 Lancaster ......- ..437 Lancaster
....73
Francisco
San
···-·······166
Excelsior
'54
14,
May
.....
G
Percival
Overton,
···---··---93
Salinas
Palmer.!. James ..............Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ·-···-·····204 Montebello ..........73
Peale, \,;harles W ........ .Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ........451 San Francisco ....81
Peters, Herman Chas.• Oct. 29, '54 Park ..................449 8.ierraville ..........89
Place, John N .................Dec. 29, '52 Sierra Valley ..184 Long Beach ...- ...91
Beach ......327
Plato, John -·-······-······.Feb. 5, '48 Long
Angeles ···-···81
Porter, Wm. G •..............Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ................537 Los
....69
Price, William L ...........Feb. 18, '54 San Francisco....360 San Francisco
·······-···79
.297
.........
Dunsmuir
Dunsmuir
Regan, Edwin D . •.........Mar. 19, '52
..............62
Richardson, Will T .......July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona
Francisco ....65
Riddle, Starr D ........... _..Dec. 26, '50 Excelsior ·-·········166 San
................70
Roales, Robert W.* ........Oct. 6, '54 Needles ..............326 Needles
San Francisco ....73
Roberts, Daniel C .......Sept. 18, '53 Justice ..............549 Watsonville
........84
Russell, Frederick C .......Dec. 26, '49 Pajaro ···-···········110
89
..........
Tehachapi
313
..........
Tehachapi
Shields, Samuel A• ......June 25, '55
..................80
Shirreff, Charles L .......June 26, '53 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno
~eles ........71
Short, Benj. Alonzo• ......Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside ..........577 Los
Placerville ..........82
Smith, Edward L. • ........Nov. 5, '54 El Dorado .......... 26 San Francisco ....78
Stapff, Frederick W ...... .Feb. 1, '54 Doric .....•............216 San Andreas ......84
Stewart, James O .........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras .......... 78 Sacramento ........88
Stillwell, Arthur M .......Aug. 5, '50 Washington ...... 20 Pasadena .......- ...112
Street, Alvin Clyde* ....Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ..........272 Monrovia ............84
· Stubbs, Will L ............ .Mar. 21. '51 Sojourner ..........607

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Admitted
Name
Sutherland, George W. July 13, '53
Swahl, Charles ..............Aug. 12, '53
Tarmann. Rudolph ........Dec. 29, '53
Templeman, Henry ......Dec. 29, '38
Thompson, Charles J .....Nov. 17, '49
Thurston, Wm. G.• ........Apr. 20, '55
Tilsner, Henry E ...........Mar. 2, '46
Tingley, Charles H .......Dec. 6, '50
Vanderwerker, Leonard C.
Apr. 13, '47
.
Vorsanger, Edward A. June 10, '37
Wallace, James S .........Apr. 18, '51
Wallis, Abraham G .......Nov. 2, '47
Waterman, Alfred S.* ..Feb. 28, '55
Watkins, Wilford G .......Apr. 11, '47
Wells. William S ...........Aug. 4, '51
White, Harry Chas. • ..... .Dec. 4, '54
Williams, Chas. F •........Aug. 24, '46
Wood, Perham W.........Feb. 26, '54
Wright, Lerton L.• ......May 17, '55
Young, Frank E .............Oct. 5, '51

419

No.
Lodge
Clovis ................417
Redwood City ..168
Presidio ·······-···354
Oriental •...........144
Mission .•............169
Cupertino ..........510
Crockett ............139
Jubilee ..............604

Age
Town
Clovis ..................75
Redwood City ....72
San Francisco ....66
San Francisco......94
San Francisco ....95
Cupertino ............91
San Francisco ....84
Santa Ana ..........77

Alcatraz ........... .244
Martinez ............ 41
Excelsior ............166
Midway ............426
Russian River....181
Ramona ............457
Oriental ............144
San Diego ..........561
Rockridge ..........468
Amity ................370
North Hollyw'd 542
Hollenbeck ........319

Oakland ····--·····84
Martinez ..............87
San Francisco ....88
Taft ···········-···-····71
Windsor ..............77
Monterey Park ..88
San Francisco ....85
San Diego ............74
Oakland ..............73
San Francisco ....75
Burbank ·······-·····80
Los Angeles ···-···81

Deaths-MEN-1 954-1955

No.
Lodge
So. Calif.............278
San Gabriel ......546
G. Washington..525
San Benito ........211
Standard ............440
Yosemite ....•..... 99
Sunset ·········-·····352
Oakland ·······-···188
Malta ..................661
Las Palmas ......366
Redlands ............300
Redondo ............328
Sunnyvale ........511
Center ................465
Sequoia ..............349
Upland ..•...........419
Parnassus ..........388
Oak Grove ....... .215
Parnassus ..........388
Willits •...............365
So. Calif........ _.278
Oakland ............188

Age
Town
Los Angeles ........82
San Gabriel ........57
San Francisco ....83
Hollister ···-·········82
Oakland ···-·········G4
Merced •...............72
Los Angeles ......89
Oakland ..............86
Los Angeles ........80
Fresno ..................85
Redlands ............ 80
Redondo Beach ..87
Sunnyvale ..........89
Fresno ..................79
Oakland ···-··-···81
Upland ................78
San Francisco ....86
Alameda .............. 83
San Francisco ......89
Willits ..................90
Los Angeles ........ 86
Oakland ..............77

Withdrawals--M EN-1954-1955
No.
Date Lodge
Name
Hallinan, Harry Theo...Mar. 15, '55 Paul Revere ...... 462
Peppin, John B ...............Apr. 15, '55 Eden ..................113
Schussler, Carl A. G .....Mar. 16, '55 Unity Lodge .•..368

Age
Town
San Francisco ....78
San Leandro •.....87
Glendale ·······--···77

Died
Name
Bartram, Edward E .......Oct. 16, '54
Carroll, Arthur B .........Oct. 20, '54
Cassady, Earl J •................Dec. 1, '54
Davis, John O .................Oct. 24, '54
Goldstein, Henry D ..... Sept. 26, '54
Goldsworthy, Walt. W., Apr. 7, '55
Gregory, Geo. W ...........July 20, '55
Jackson, Francis F .........Oct. 28, '54
Johansen, Cedolph S .......Feb. 5, '55
Matlock, Wm. L..............July 22, '55
Moore, Andrew A ........Apr. 21, '55
Mellinger, Walter E .....Oct. 22, '54
Nichols, Chas. G. P .....Apr. 16, '55
Peters, Thos. C ............. Sept. 29, '54
Reed, Wm .........................Dec. 11, '54
Salisbury, John T .........Jan. 11, '55
Sherwood, Stanley E .....Oct. 24, '54
Sieben, Wm. J ...............June 13, '55
Spaulding, Horace R. ....Dec. 6, '54
Stowell, Geo. E ...............Jan. 22, '55
Tummonds, Wm. John..July 23, '55
Willis, Walter H ...............Oct. 2, '54

420

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

DECOTO, CALIFORNIA

Annual Report 1954-1955
Names of Residen~WOMEN--Average Age 80.53
•Indicates admission during current year.

Name
Admitted
Adams, Elsie ..................Nov. 7, '53
Allen, Ida ......................Feb. 17, '40
M'&~
Ames ' Myra D ...................
~ 8' '54
Anderson, Christine M. Apr. 10, '50
Anderson, Mary D .......Nov. 19, '51
Aver' Ida M. ···-·······-··.Mar 4' '44
Baker, Annie J. --- ------.May 15, '48
Barkworth, Elizabeth June 14, '51
Barnes, Anna L . ............Oct. 4, '52
Barnes, Elaine G .............July 7, '34
Barry Agnes c.............Mar. 16, '54
Bartl~tt, Eva R. ............Apr. 10, '53
Barr Mabel Wixson......May 24, '54
Baus'ch, Ella A ...............Oct. 2, '41
Benson, Maude B. • ........Sept. 8, '54
Blakiston, Edith A ......Apr. 4, '48
. H · ··········· .Dec 28 '50
Bode, Lowse
· '
Bourland, Catherine D. Oct. 31, '51

Lodge
No.
Bethlehem ········~gg
Balder ................
Delano ................403
309
Y erba Buena ....
Sequoia ·······-···..349
Madison ··········- 23
Sequoia
:
Union-··············- 5
Vallejo ·····-----j3~
Liberty -·-·-.-·-···
Mount Monah. ..~44
Pasadena tO.......
Sacramen ...... 40
Sequoia ..............349
Needles ,. .............32~
Califorrua ··········
Manchester
....... .585
Le Progres De
L'Oceanie..371

Bowman, Ottie B ........ .Apr. 3, '54
Boyer Mildred A ______ .sept. 14, '52
Bradic, Elizabeth H. ....June 3, '44
Braine, Belle J .............Oct. 17, '53
Brown, Jean L. ···-······-.Apr. 23, '50
Brown May M. ···-·····-.Nov. 29, '42
Browne, Rachel R .......June 21, '54
Bryon Hortense P .......Sept. 30, '52
Burtchaell, Marguerite•
Apr. 26, '55
Campbell, Lucy A ......Sept. 11, '50
Carnall, Louise M.........Dec. 1, '45
Carroll Nellie P .........•.Aug. 27, '49
Casterline, Mary A. ____.Apr. 10, '34
Cauch, Mabel R. ............Jan. 19, '51
Chappell, Margaret H.....Mar. 1, '54
Cheney, Hazel E. ···-··-.Aug. 15, '51
Church Rosalie C. •···- ··-Oct. 8, '54
Cicero 'Antoinette ........Mar. 27, '53
Cope Hattie May ..........July 29, '52
Corti'.ight, Laura• ........Sept. 7, '54
Costain Mattie L .........June 10, '40
Cross, Amanda S .........May 26, '52
Cundell, Isabel ·······-····.Dec. 16, '44
Dahlgren, Anna C. • ......July 22, '55
Dalton, Meta C............ .Jen. 27, '51
Daly Martha N .............Jan. 29, '54
Damiier, Jennie ······---·.Aug. 27, '42
Davies, Sarah J. ···-··-··.Jan. 16, '53
Davis, Millie B ...._...... .Dec. 21, '53
Delves Edith J. • ····------.8ept. 9, '54
Dibble' Catherine o.....Sept. 10, '53
Dieterlch, Martha W. • N'"ov. 3, '54

Henrys~~h5:ns..541

.

-----------ll4

72

Town
Age
San Francisco _,__73
San Francisco ....87
Delano ...........•......68
Oakland ..............80
Oakland ..............80
Grass Valley ......85
Oakland ...........-79
Sacramento ···-···71
Vallejo ................85
Santa Clara ........85
San Francisco ....77
Pasadena ............82
Sacramento ........75
Oakland ..............91
Needles ·······-·······81
San Francisco ....87
Los Angeles ........79
Honolulu ............93

Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Golden Gate ...... 30
San Jose ·········- 10
Santa Rosa ........ 57
Washington ...... 20
Las Palrnas ......366
Golden State ....358

Berkeley ..............74
San Francisco ....83
San Francisco ....63
San Jose ..............84
Santa Rosa ..........75
Sacramento ........83
Fresno .................•66
Los Angeles ........69

Richmond ..........375
Dunsmuir ..........297
Mission ..............169
Marin ...............-191
Oceanside ..........381
Friendship ........210
Liberty --·-··-··-.299
Washington···- 20
Live Oak ............ 61
Yount ............·-··· 12
Hartley ···- ······-199
Durant ·······-··_.268
San Jose •.•....•.... 10
Mendocino ···--·179
Pentalpha ..........202
Fellowship ···-···480
Live Oak .......... 61
Menlo Park ......651
Pacific ................136
Martinez ···-······· 41
San Jose ............ 10
Fruitvale ............336
Pentalpha ..........202
West Lake ........392

San Francisco ....87
Dunsmuir ............90
San Francisco ....83
San Rafael ..........84
Oceanside ............82
San Jose ..............93
Santa Clara ........91
Sacramento ...-.69
Oakland ..........-89
Napa ···-··----···-82
Lakeport ···-··-·····79
Berkeley ..............78
San Jose ····-···--79
Mendocino ..........79
Los Angeles ........80
Oakland ..............88
Oakland ..............'1'1
Menlo Park ........63
San Francisco ....80
Martinez ..............84
San Jose .............•85
Oakland ..............86
Los Angeles ........78
Los Angeles ........87

421

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Dixon, Nora E ..:............Feb. 22, '46 West
Lake
···-···392
Los
Angeles
........
80
Dodge, Helen L. ............Aug. 27, '53 Harbor ...........-502
Richmond ·······-···70
Dott, Edna 0 .................June l', '52 Washington
20 Sacramento ........64
Douthitt, Edith A. ........Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30
San Francisco ....78
Dowden, Frances M.• ....Aug. 17. '54 Yerba Buena......
... .403
Drewson, Hilda ..............Mar. 3, '54 Thousand Oaks 478 Oakland ..........._.79
Berkeley ·······-····-69
Edwardes, Lina M.......May 23, '50 Presidio ............354
San Francisco ....73
Edwards, Emma L .........Nov. 1, '52 Mosiac ................218
Edwards, Letitia M.....Aug. 30, '50 Vacaville ............134 Livermore ..........74
Edwards, Maylian E .... .Dec. 7, '53 Excelsior ..........166 Vacaville ............81
Eitner, Rose• ............... _.Dec. 24, '54 Palestine ..........351 San Francisco ....84
Los Angeles ···---81
Elliott, Maude M. ........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills
....528 Beverly Hills ......77
Erwin, Lilian B .............July 23, '41 Olivet ................
205 Corning ···--····-···82
Finley, Ada L. - .......-Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles .... 42
Fish, Gertrude L ...........Jan. 26, '46 Elmhurst ............610 Los Angeles ........64
Foley, Lida E. • ..............Apr. 18, '55 Bellftower ..........523 Oakland -··--•..91
Bellflower ............63
Ford, Alice ......................Sept. 1, '49 Excelsior
..........166 San Francisco ....98
Fox, Cora F ...................Dee. 30, '49 Clovis ................417
Frazier, Alice M.• ....... .Jan. 27, '54 Covina ................334 Clovis ................ _70
Fremont, Emma• ...........July 29, '55 Starr King ........344 Covina ..................80
San Francisco ....82
Gafford, Sophia B .........Feb. 7, 1949 San Bernardino 348
San
Bernardino 81
Gallup, Fannie ··-·········.Mar. 27, '54 Washington ...... 20
Geibel. Theresa .........•..Feb. 4, '53 Fairmount ........435 Sacramento ··--·--88
Gerard, Martha J. • ......Oct. 27, '54 Stanislaus ........206 San Francisco .... 77
Gerdes, Clara H. ..........Oct. 2, '53 King Solomon's 260 Modesto .............. 75
Gilliam, Estelle G . ......Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ................615 San Francisco ....79
Goin, Ada M. • ..............July 16, '55 San Pasqual ......452 Hemet ·····-···---71
Goldstein, Pauline........ Nov. 21, 50 San Jose···-··-- 10 Altadena ···---....67
Goodwin, Emma ·--.....June 13, '48 Vermont Sq•..•.515 San Jose ·····---64
Goldsworthy, Laura F. Sept 3, '52 Yosemite .......... 99 Los Angeles ...-.82
Gowen, Laura ................Jan. 31, '48 Palestine ..........351 Merced ··-···--..81
Los Angeles ···-···90
Grant, Lillian A. ·········-·Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown
........81 •
Green, Elizabeth ....... .June 29, '54 Oriental ..............144
Gri1fith, Rose L ...........Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise .•........ 70 San Francisco ....82
Guthrie, Rena ..............May 27, '52 Buckeye ............195 Yuba City .•.......•..89
Winters ................79
Hamilton, Mariana ......Aug. 12, '53 Orosi ..................383
Hardy, Alice M.• ........Dec. 27, '54 Rock:ridge ........468 Orosi ....................91
Harris, Louise C. -·-·····.Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ................136 Oakland ..............83
Harrison, Martha ....... _.Nov. 19, '52 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ....80
San Francisco ....94
Hays, Lilian T. • ····- ·····.May 5, '55 Center ···-···········465 Fresno
.................. 59
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25 San Jose ............ 10
Henderson, Margaret..Sept. 23, '50 Oroville ·······-··-103 San Jose ..............84
Hepburn, Catherine ......Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ..........637 Oroville ..............90
Hewitt, Frieda Z ........... Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon's 260 Santa Monica ....63
Higuera, Elizabeth ......Jan. 16, '54 Alcatraz ............244 San Francisco ....71
Hinze, Henrietta M.....Jan. 27, '54 Morning Star .... 68 Oakland --··-·····86
Stockton ··-··-·····70
Hollis, Maybelle J •......Feb. 11, '53 Francis K.
Shattuck..571 Berkeley ·····--·····71
Hoover, Emma Jane ......Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272
Hoskins, Elizabeth* ......May 3, '55 Lancaster ..........437 Pasadena ·····--·-711
Huber, Tillie A ............July 7, '49 King Solomon's 260 Lancaster ............76
Hudson, Millie ..............Feb. 17, '54 Westlake ....... _.392 San Francisco ....90
Los ~eles ........79
Hyman, Loretta ······--··.Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ........344 San
Francisco ....64
Jack, Mary ....................June 1, '31 McKinley ..........347
Richmond
-·····-·88
Jacobsen, Josephine ....June 25, '54 So. California....278
Jebe, Elise ..................... .Mar. 10. '48 San Francisco 360 Los Angeles ·--.83
San Francisco ....83
Jones, Edith ···-··-··--·- ..Jan. 2, '53 Victorville ........ 634 Victorville
Jones, Elsie l.·-··-··-··.Jan. 26, '49 Charter Rocle ••..410 Berkeley ... _86
83

.

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Los
Angeles
........
...................li20 San Jose ..............72
Kapantais, Edith R. • ....Feb. 14, '55 Ionic
83
San
Jose
Kapp, Carrie E ...........July 16, '49 Alexander............ 10
Kauffman, Eda B ...........Dec. 7, '46
Graham Bell..595 Los Angeles ........73
..............86
East
Bay ......... .489 Berkeley
Kauffman, Augusta ......Mar. 19, '48 Jewell
................
374 San Francisco ....78
Keenan, Effie ................July 17, '33 Oakland ............188 Oakland ..............79
Kendrick, Josephine....Aug. 5, '49 Francis Drake ..376 S. San Francisco 74
King, Catherine L .........Feb. 2, '52 Mill Valley ......356 Mill Valley ........79
Kramer, Alice L.• ........June 4, '55 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ..............85
Krejcik, Otilia ..............Jan. 25, '49 Fairmount ........435 San Francisco ....80
Krejcik, Rose ................Feb. 16, '48 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........79
Kutzner, Estella ..........Aug, 29, '51
Santa Rosa ..........81
Lane, Edith B ...............Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57
San Francisco ....90
Langenberger, Conradine
Apr. 26, '47 Jewell ................374 Los Angeles ........67
Moneta
...•..........
405
Larter, Gertrude M .....Sept. 5, '49 Bay City ............526 San Francisco ....71
Lasman, Esther ............Jan. 10, '52 Eureka .............. 16 Auburn ................80
Lee, May D ...................Dec. 29, '53
View ..........401 Oakland ..............'1'1
Mackenzie, May W .......June 30, '41 Bay
Southern
Calif. 278 Los Angeles ........92
Macready, Mattie De L. Jan. 10, '53 Chico ..................
Chico ....................85
Maltby, Sarah E .............Dec. 16, '39 Alpha ................111
Richmond ..........83
431
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Larchmont ........614 Los Angeles ........78
MacAllister, Emily F ...Aug. 19, '52 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........80
McCord, Zidana M .......Oct. 18, '46 Educator ............554 San Francisco ....79
McCully, Gertie M .......June 16, '46 Alcatraz ............244 Oakland ..............'19
McDowell, Alice M .....Mar. 24, '32 Catalina Island 524 Avalon ................&'(
McGarry, Marion A. ....June 2, '48 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............80
Mciver, Ella W ...............July 9, '48 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ....79
McLean, Lucy A. ..........Nov. 28, '34
....•.........169 San Francisco ....74
Martin, Annas.• ............Oct. 2, '54 Mission
Wilshire
............445 Los Angeles ........79
Meerdink, Gertrude ......Nov. 4, '52 lllinoistown
51 Colfax ..................76
Merrill, Ivy L .................Jan. 25, '41 Long Beach ......
Long Beach ........82
......
327
Merwin, Gertrude W.• Dec. 30, '54 Silver Gate ......296 San Diego ............79
Meyer, Annie J ...........June 2 ,1951 S'n Bernardino 348 San Bernardino 78
Mitchell, Maude N. • ......Dec. 20, '54 Alpha ................431 Richmond ............87
Monro, Edith C.............Mar. 16, '46 Redlands ..........300 Redlands ............'14
Moore, Louise I ............ .Apr. 25, '50 Golden Rule ....479 San Jose ..............85
Morden, Florence ..........April 1, '54 Mendocino ........179 Mendocino ..........94
Mullen, Charlotte E .....Jan. 11, '52 Westwood ........501 Westwood ..........82
Murray, Florence A. ....Apr. 17, '53 John Marshall ..636 Beverly Hills ....76
Murrell, Catherine ......Jan. 12, '52
Alamo ................122 Walnut Creek ....93
Needham, Esther A. ....June 4, '52 Fruitvale
..........336 Oakland ..............77
Nielsen, Este M .............Oct. 3, '40
............289 Elsinore ..............61
O'Brien, Mary T .............Mar. 8, '54 Elsinore
Berkeley ..............92
Durant
..............
O'Donnell, Florence D. June 1, '43 Hum.bolt ............268
Eureka ................72
79
Olsen, Minnie ................May 28, '52
Jackson ......295 Guemeville ........72
Orr, Fay• ........................Mar. 11, '55 Mt.
Franklin
............143 Courtland ............82
Osborn, Orpha E. ........Sept. 29, '53 Silver Gate
........296 San Diego ..........72
Otis, Ethel E .................Mar. 22, '48
Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............89
Paige, Hilma ..................Mar. 15, '54 Salinas
2M Salinas ................88
Palmer, Elizabeth F .... .Aug. 14, '47 Crockett..............
San Francisco ....90
............
Pankow, Catherine ......Apr. 29, '29 Los .Angeles ......139
Los Angeles ........83
42
Parizek, Grace D .........Jan. 11, '49 Alcatraz ............244 Oakland ..............82
Peacock, Katie C .........Mar. 15, '47 Normal Hts.....632 San Diego ..........86
Peairs, Lillian W ...........Feb. 11, '35 Oa·kland ............188 Oakland ..............91
Pearce, Carrie C ...........Oct. 11, '46 Fruitvale ..........336 Oakland ..............78
Perger, Eva ....................Sept. 8, '45 Mendocino .•-179 Mendocino ..........75
Pitts, Adelaide S ...........Feb. 5, '54

Name

Admitted

~ow~µ, Belle M .............May 15 •50

~en ice, Rose ..............June 30• ,45
eslar, Ida ....................Jan. 19; ,41
Raymond, Lillian F .....Sept. 21 ,39
Reasoner, Marie D .......July 21• ,48
Rebese, Dora• ..................Feb. 22' •55
R o ertson, Annette M. Aug. 1; •52
Robertson, Mary F .......Apr. 28 '46
Rounds, Florence B .....June 12• ,54
Rudebeck, Anna ............Dec. 15', ,48
Saltber, Julia A. ................Jan. 5 •54
S an om, Mary E.• ........May 6' '55
Sandb!>, Maude R ...........Dec 5• ,52
Schneider, Emma ..........Oct.' 1 • ,53
~eagrave, Edna R. ........May 17 .52
S e~o~aura ..............Feb. 1'. '36
S~o ks
a L ............ .Aug, 27 '52
1 37
snrifu. J~~ei~--if* ....NSeopvt. 5 : ;55
Smid
"th, M acy .................
. ....May .26' '54
S ny er, Amanda G .... .Apr. 13' ,37
Sparrowe, Constance.... Sept. 27 ,40
Steele, Fannie T ...........June 26 • ,50
Stevens, Linnie M. • ....Sept. 30 ' ,54
Stroud, Laura L ...........June 2• ,37
~ubt;r. Amanda• ..........June 6' '55
wam, Sarah C...............Feb. 1', •51
:fi~.yly;, Clara B ............ .Apr. 2 •48
Th er elsen, Anna M .......Nov. 4, '52
ompson, Celia ..........Dec. 16 '33
Th ompson, Minnie c. •..Oct. 14: •54
Tweedy, Macy L. • ........Apr, 2, '55
Vale, Olive B ...............June 18 ,36
Van Osten, La~ ........Dec. 22, '54
Waite, Florence• ............Dec 9 •54
:al~erj Bai:bara E .........'Jan. 9· •53
Ward' Nt;nme F .............Sept. 1' '50
abr • ma E. • ..............Dec. 27 '54
W e llsster, Emma•
.
..........F e b . 28•, 55
~ 'Jennie A.• ..........Dec. 27 '54
cox' Edith :.................May 3 •, 36
Willi
Will.ams, Anme F .........Nov. 3: '46
w· Iams, Eda M...........Nov. 10 '51
W~terberg, Clara ..........Mar. 1' '50
WTuwell, Evelyn. .........Feb. 18' '54
1 • am, Bess T .............Aug. 25, •51
Wh ittaker, Ada H .........Oct. 8 •52
Woebcke, Gretchen ......Dec. 30, •52
Zeehandelar, Mary E .....Jan. 12, •48

Wil

Lodge
No.
rrau:nount ........435
Alarm ................191
catraz ............244
~iberty ..............299
H~al Hts .......632
M ley .......- .....199
W or{~n Hill ......463
J as mgton ...... 20
:a°a~dthan ..........545
er ................393
grockett ............139
orona ................324
~Iden Rule ......479
ark Blvd.........568
~alo Alto ..........346
onolulu ..........409
Arcata ................106
~awaiian .......... 21
1 Dorado .......... 26
0 akland ............188
Bakersfield ........224
Excelsior ..........166
Hanford ............279
~tanis!aus ........ 206
acaville ..........134
Alcatraz ............244
Apollo ................396
San Francisco . 360
Alisal .................:321
Eden ..................113
Golden Gate .... 30
Thousand Oaks 478
~ethlehem ........453
twater ............622
Seal Rock ..........536
ii°uth P!ll'k ......562
V unsmuir ..........297
Wrmont Sq.......515
ashington ...... 20
gonenbeck ........319
urant ..............268
~olden Gate .... 30
ark ....................449
3~K~g ........344
ornia .......... 1
Lancaster ..........437
Bay View ..........401
Hermann ..........127
West Gate ........335

423
Town
Age
San Francisco ....89
San Rafael ..........86
Oakland .. _ .........93
Santa Clara ........86
San Diego ............73
Lakeport ..............82
Morgan Hill ........79
Sacramento ........82
San Francisco ....83
San Francisco ....83
San Francisco ....85
Pasadena ............86
San Jose ..............75
Oakland ..............87
Palo Alto ............70
Honolulu ............77
Arcata .................. 84
Honolulu ............84
Placerville ..........68
Oakland ..............71
Bakersfield ..........82
San Francisco .... 87
Hanford ..............89
Modesto ..............89
Vacaville ............81
San Leandro ......89
Alameda ..............78
San Francisco ....94
Pleasanton ..........86
San Leandro ......84
San Francisco ....82
Berkeley ..............75
San Francisco ....98
Los Angeles ........83
~an Francisco ....76
os Angeles ........81
D unsmuir ............90
~s Angeles ........77
J!cramento ........ 76
B s Angeles ........87
S erkeley ..............87
an Francisco ....76
San Francisco ....74
San Francisco ....94
San Francisco ....81
Lancaster ............72
Os akland ..............81
an Francisco ....85
Los Angeles ........84

'12'1

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

DECO TO CHRI STMA S AND ENTE RTAI NME

Death a-WO MEN -1954 -1955

Name
Died
Ande rson, Ella ..............Nov. 19, '54
Broug hton, Mary L .......Jan. 24, '55
Chase , Aime e, C ...........Aug. 16, '54
Curti s, Eva J ...................Oct. 29, '54
Hawk ins, Louis a ..........Apr. 10, '55
Hyatt , Nann ie S .......... ...Dec. 16, '54
Kaute nberg , Carol ine....Feb. 3, '55
Kings ley, Lizzie............ Jan. 28, '55
Lelan d, Sarah F ...........Aug. 13, '54
McCu rry, Alice ........... .Feb. 22, '55
McGi nnes, Mary M .... .May 28, '55
Palm er Stella ! .............May 13, '55
1
Price , anna
M ...............Mar. 15, '55
Rams ey, Hatti e L .............Oct. 6, '54
Rando lph, Jeane tte ......Dec. 13, '54
Schw artz, Grace H .....Mar. 30, '55
Sprag ue, Julia................Feb. 18, '55
Whar ton, Mary C.........Nov. 21, '54
Wilso n, Mary L..............May 17, '55
Zimm erman , Emel ia ....Mar. 27, '55

Lodge
No.
Starr King ........344
Teham a···-·· ······· 3
Bethl ehem ........453
Ashle r ................306
Fruit vale ..........336
Wash ingto n ...... 20
Chart er Rock ....410
Holle nbeck ........319
East Gate ..........290
Union ................ 58
Orien tal ............144
San Gabri el ......546
Long Beach ......327
Mont erey ..........217
Corco ran ............490
Arlin gton ....... -.414
Acorn ................494
Live Oak ............ 61
Santa Rosa ....... 57
Crock ett ............139

Town
Age
San Franc isco ....82
Sacra mento ........ ~6
San Franc isco .... 5
Colto n ..................77
Oakla nd ..............86
Sacra mento ······--~:
Berke ley .......... ..
Los Ange les ........79
Los Ange les ........82
Sacra mento ........92
San Franc isco ....95
San Gabri el ........81
Long Beach ........77
Mont erey ............93
Corco ran ..............74
Los Ange les ........83
Oakla nd ..............86
Oakla nd ...........-.78
Santa Rosa .......-.80
Crock ett ..............85

Withd rawal a-WO MEN -1954 -1955
Name •
Date Lodge
No. Town
Age
Willia ms, Louis e............Apr. 12, '55 San Joaqu in
...... 19 Stock ton ..............81

'125

NT FUND , 1954·1955
No. Lodge
Amount No. Lodge
Amount
1 Califo rnia .................- .....$
144 Orien tal ·················----·..··· 25.00
2 West ern Star .................. 50.00
5.00 146 Abell ..... - ................ -.......
10.00
3 Teham a __ ......................... 10.00 166
sior ..........................
12.50
9 Corin thian ...................... 10.00 167 Excel
Alam eda ..........................
5.00
10 San Jose ....................... 15.00 168 R~d~ood City ................ 10.00
12 Youn t -···········--·················
5.00 169 Missi on ·····-··········--········· 25.00
13 Neva da ··-························
5.00 175 Antio ch ............................
16 Eurek a ..............................
15.00
5.00 180 Petal uma ........................ 12.50
17 La Parfa ite Union..........
5.00 181 Russi an River ................
5.00
19 San Joaqu in..... ............... 10.00 187 Keith
................................
5.00
20 Wash~gton .................... 10.00 188
Oakla
nd
..........
................ 10.00
21 Hawa uan ........................ 25.00 191 Marin
_____
..........
............. 25.00
22 Occid ental ...................... 20.00 192 Santa
Barba ra ................
5.00
23 Madi son............................
5.00 193 Fernd ale ..........................
5.00
24 Marip osa ....... -.................
5.00 194 Moun tain View .............. 10.00
~~ El _D_orado ........................
10.00 195 Buck eye ..........................
5.00
Trini ty .............................. 10.00 198 Wilm
30 Golde n Gate .................... 25.00 199 Hartl ingto n .................... 10.00
ey ............................
7.50
32 Gold Hill ..........................
5.00
Silve yville ........... _......... 10.00
35 San Diego ........................ 10.00 201
Confi dence ...................... 10.00
37 Howa rd ............................. 10.00 203 Stani
slaus ............. _......... 10.00
38 Santa Cruz ...................... 10.00 206
208 Rio Vista ..........................
10.00
40 Sacra mento ....................
5.00 209 King David 's ..................
10.00
41 Marti nez .......................... 51.00 210
Frien
dship
..........
............ 10.00
44 Moun t Moria h ................
5.00 211 San Benit o ...................... 10.00
45 Cresc ent ..........................
5.00 212 South San Francisco......
10.00
46 Texas ·-·-···········----·········· 10.00 215 Oak
Grove ......................
5.00
57 Santa Rosa ·········-·········-- 25.00
217 Mont erey ........................ 10.00
58 Union ·---··--········--············· 12.50 218 Mosa
61 Live Oak ·-······················· 25.00 219 Speraic ................ ·-··-··--··· 10.00
nza Italia na ..........
7.50
64 Natom a ......... -................. 10.00 220
Down ey ............................
10.00
70 Enter prise ........................
5.00 222 Rosev ille ..........................
5.00
78 Calav eras ..........·-··········· 10.00 224 Baker
sfield ...................... 12.50
79 Humb oldt ........................
5.00 225 Brook lyn .......................... 10.00
81 Yolo -·-··-- ----·-- --··--· ·-·
3.00 226 San Mateo ---·-····--······- · 25.00
84 Vespe r -····-····--····-·--·-·- 10.00 236 Hills
Ferry ......................
5.00
87 Nava l ................................ 25.00 237
Guad alupe ......................
5.00
93 St. Helen a ..... -.................
5.00 240 Colus a ,_......................... _
2.50
99 Yosem ite .....................-... 10.00 241 Santa
101 Clay - ........................,...... 10.00 245 Laure Ana........................ 10.00
l ...............................
5.00
106 Arcat a ...............-.............
5.00 246 Pomo na -························· 20.00
110 Pajar o .............................. 10.00 253 Land
5.00
111 Chico ..... _......................... 10.00 254 Read mark ........................
ing ............................ 10.00
113 Eden .................................. 10.00 256 Lodi
5.00
117 Conco rd ............................ 10.00 258 Penrh.......-.........................
5.00
120 Fidel ity ............................ 12.50 259 Everg yn ..........................
reen ........................ 20.00
122 Alam o .............:.... ·-·········
5.00 261 Tusca n -···-·...................... 10.00
126 Lafay ette ........................
5.00 262 Lomp
5.00
127 Herm ann .......................... 20.00 264 Hesp ac _..........................
10.00
128 Visal ia .............................. 20.00 265 Orlanerian ........................
d .............................. 10.00
129 Nicol aus ............-....... ....
5.00 267 Galt ..................................
5.50
131 Wood bridg e ....................
5.00 268 Dura nt ..............................
5.00
134 Vacav ille ..........................
2.50 269 Olive
10.00
136 Pacifi c ._........................... 10.00 272 Pasad Branc h ........•.........
ena .......................... 25.00
139 Crock ett ....................... _
15.00 274 Arroy o ·······-··--············..··•
5.00
143 Frank lin ·--··-·- ······-· ·--·
5.00 278 South ern Cali1 ornia ......
5.00

426
No.
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
289
290
292
293
299
301
305
306
313
314
315
321
322
324
326
327
328
331
336
337
341
343

344

346
347
348
349
351
353
356
360
362
367
369
370

371

374
376
377
379
382
384
387
388

393
397
400
401
402

403
407
409
410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Amount
Hanford ............................ 50.00
Madera ·····---····-------····--·
5.00
Mount Shasta ..................
5.00
Calayomi ..........................
5.00
South West...................... 10.00
San Miguel ......................
5.00
Paso Robles .................... 10.00
Elsinore ............................
5.00
East Gate ........................ 25.00
Los Gatos ........................ 10.00
Orange Grove ................ 10.00
Liberty .............................. 10.00
Ontario ............................ 10.00
Azusa ................................ 10.00
Ashlar ..............................
5.00
Tehachapi........................
7.50
Temescal ..........................
2.50
Norwalk .......................... 10.00
Alisa! ................................
5.00
Alhambra ........................ 25.00
Corona .............................. 10.00
Needles ............................
5.00
Long Beach ...................... 15.00
Redondo ..........................
5.00
Pacific Grove .................. 10.00
Fruitvale .......................... 10.00
Carquinez ........................ 10.00
Oxnard ............................ 25.00
San Fernando ................ 12.50
Starr King ...................... 12.50
Palo Alto .......................... 12.50
McKinley ........................ 15.00
San Bernardino .............. 10.00
Sequoia ............................ 10.00
Palestine .......................... 10.00
Pinole .............................. 17.50
Mill Valley...................... 25.00
San Francisco ................ 12.50
Charity ............................
7.80
South Pasadena ............ 25.00
Ocean Park ......................
5.00
Amity ................................ 10.00
le Progres de L'Oceanie 25.00
Jewel ................................
5.00
Francis Drake ................ 10.00
Artesia ..............:...............
5.00
Filhnore ·---··-·--····----······- 15.00
Highland Park ................
5.00
El Centro .......................... 10.00
Coalinga ........:................. 10.00
Parnassus ........................ 10.00
Balder .............................. 50.00
Rising Light....................
5.00
Burlingame ...................... 25.00
Bay View ........................ 10.00
Brawley ......... _................. 10.00
Yerba Buena ..................
5.00
La Mesa ............................
5.00
Honolulu ·-···-········-······· 25.00
Charter Rock ---·····-··-··· 10.00

No.
411
415
426
428
429
431
433
434
435
440
441
447
448
449
460
461
462
466
467
468

471

473
477
478
479
481
483
484
486
487
489

493

494
497
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
516

518
521
525
526
527
531

539
541
546
550
551
552
558
561
574
576

Amount
Lodge
Perris ................................ 10.00
Silver Trowel .................. 10.00
5.00
Midway ...........- ...............
San Dimas ..................... . 10.00
5.00
Pittsburg ..........................
Alpha ................................ 15.00
llammonton .................... 25.00
5.00
·M aricopa ..........................
Fairmount ........................ 10.00
5.00
Standard ..........................
5.00
Coronado ......................... .
Torrance ......·-·····•·········- 10.00
Mount Diablo ................. . 10.00
5.00
Park ..................................
Mount Oso ...................... 15.00
Argonaut .......................... 10.00
Paul Revere ··--····--·-······· 10.00
Libertas .................. - ........ 10.00
Culver City ................... . 20.00
5.00
Rockridge ....................... .
Delta ............................... . 10.00
5.00
Blythe ..............................
5.00
Temblor ............................
Thousand Oaks .............. 15.00
Golden Rule ................... . 10.00
Mt. Davidson ................. . 10.00
Bell ......_ ....................,.....• 10.00
Albert Pike ..................... 10.00
Caledonia ....................... . 25.00
Vallejo .............................. 10.00
East Bay ......................... .
5.00
Atascadero ......................
5.00
Acorn ................................ 10.00
Fremont ......................... . 10.00
Roosevelt ........................
5.00
Harbor ............................. . 10.00
Point ................................ 12.50 I
El Segundo ...................... 15.00
Cupertino ....................... . 10.00
Sunnyvale ....................... . 10.00
Cahuenga ........................ 10.00
Argonne ......................... . 15.00
Taft .................................. 10.00
La Jolla ............................ 10.00
Piedmont ................... - ... 20.00
5.00
George Washington·--·Bay City .......................... 10.00
Covenant ......................... . 10.00
5.00
Alexandria ..................... .
Belvedere ....................... . 11.00
Henry Morse Stephens..
5.00
San Gabriel ········--···---··· 10.00
5.00
Seaport ............................
5.00
Lakeshore ........................
Semper Virens ................ 10.00
Point Firmin .................... 10.00
East San Diego .............. 10.00
20.00
S. W. Hackett... ............El Cajon Valley ·······-··· 10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

427

No. Lodge
Amount Chapter
No. Amount
578 Progressive ...................... 30.00
25.00
Hanford
·-·---·············-··-···
74
580 Santa Maria -················5.00 Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
581 Security ··-·············-·········
5.00 Ferndale ............................ 78
5.00
589 Kauai -··.....··--····-··········· 25.00
2.50
590 Compass ···-············--······· 10.00 Calaveras .......................... 83
5.00
San Pedro ·······················-· 89
594 Service
.......................•...• 25.00 Whittier
............................ 91
10.00
595 Alexander Graham Bell 15.00
5.00
Fidelity ·-······-··················· 96
603 Dimond ............................ 10.00 Redondo
............................101
5.00
609 Provident .......................• 25.00 Marin ..................................
102
2.50
620 Point Loma ..................•• 10.00
5.00
Valley -············-·······108
621 The Gardens .................... 15.00 Mill
South
Pasadena
................
112
5.00
635 Riverside ........................ 15.00
Sebastopol -···········--·-··--117
5.00
637 Palisades ..........................
10.00 Searchlight
.....................133
10.00
638 Indian Rock .................... 10.00 Mark T. Lee-Chapter
of
·
645 A. F. E. Irwin .................. 10.00
Eagle Rock ·····-··-·········134
5.00
650 La Brea -··-···················· 10.00
Wilmington ·······-······-··-·141
5.00
661 Malta ----·-····-····-···
5.00
5.00
662 Henry Knox ...................•
5.00 Havasue ·····-······--····-··-148
665 Kaweah ............................ 10.00
Total ....................................$196.20
668 San Gorgonio .................•
10.00
669 John P. Jannan ..............
5.00
COUNCILS, R. 1k S. M.
673 Far West·-·······················
5.00 Council
No. Amount
675 Modesto ............................
5.00
676 Willow Glen ..................
5.00 Sacramento ...................... 1 $ 5.00
Marysville .......................... 3
5.00
680 Carmel ·-···························
5.00
2.50
681 Dos Palos ........................
7.50 Gateway ............................ 13
686 Albany ·-························-·
·····-······-·····..······ 16
5.00
5.00 Pasadena
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
2.50
688 Oildale ·············-···············
5.00 Pacific ................................ 37
5.00
690 San Carlos _,................... 10.00
5.00
691 Indian Wells Valley .... 10.00 Harbor ............................. _ 45
5.00
711 Rim of the World ..........
5.00 Redwood Empire ............ 46
718 San Lorenzo Valley ......
5.00
5.00 Palo Alto-·······-······-··-····· 93
719 Estero ·---··-·····················
5.00
720 Mineral King ·······-·········
Total -·--·----..-....$ 40.00
5.00
725 St. John's .,......................
2.50
COMMANDERIES, K. T.
737 Hillsborougn .................. 10.00
Peninsula U. D. .............. 10.00 Commanderg
No. Amount
Sacramento ...................... 2 S 5.00
Total ·······-···············$2905.80 Oroville ..................-......... 5
10.00
Nevada ·-······-·········-········ 6
7.50
CHAPTERS, R. A. M.
Marysville ........................ 7
5.00
Chapter
No. Amount San Jose ............................ 10
5.00
Sacramento ...................... 3 $ 5.00
Chico -············--·················· 12
5.00
2.50
Nevada ···········--······-····--··· 6
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
5.00
5.00 Naval -··-··-··-······-·--···--··· 19
Cyrus ·-··--··-····-··-··-··· 15
5.00
2.50
Watsonville ...................... 22
5.00
Grass Valley ·······-··········· 18
1.25 St. Bernard ·-··--···········--···· 23
Petalwna ·····-·-·······--········ 22
5.00
Delta .................................. 27
5.00 Colusa ................................ 24
5.00
2.50 Visalia ................................ 26
12.50
Napa ···········-················-··· 30
Martinez ............................ 31
5.00 San Luis Obispo .............. 27
5.00
Naval .................................. 35
5.00 Pasadena ............................ 31
10.00
5.00 Eureka ................................ 35
5.00
Siloam ·-························-··· 37
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
2.50 Southern California ........ 37
10.00
Chico .................................. 42
5.00 San Francisco .................. 41
5.00
Visalia ................................ 44
12.50 Santa Cruz ........................ 44
2.50
Santa Rosa ........................ 45
5.00 Auburn .............................. 52
5.00
Humboldt .......................... 52
5.00 Hollywood ........................ 56
15.00
10.00
San Pedro .......................... 60
5.00
Ukiah ······-··················---··· 53
St. Helena ....................... _. 63
5.00 Calvary -··-·········--············ 62
10.00
2.50
Riverside --·-······-··········- 67
Crown .....- ........................ 72
5.00
Total -············-··········-·····-.$147.50

428

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

A. lk A. S.R .

Amount
Oak land Bod ies ........ ................ ..$ 25.00
Peni nsuJ a
ies ·-··········-·
50.00
Fres no LodBod
ge of Perf ectio n·-···
.... 50.00

MIS CEL LAN EOU S

Amount
Clar ence M. Buic k &
Ray E. Man kiv ···-····-············.$ 9.50
Univ ersit y Squ are Club
........ .. 5.00
Flor ence Van ce .......................... 10.00
Tota l ···········-······- ············--$125.00
C. L. Eck ·-··- -····-······ ·-·········· 5.00
Beth el # 133 - ···········-················ 10.00
DIS TRI CT OFF ICE RS
W. A. Sloa n ·-··-· ··- ···················· 25.00
ASS OCI ATI ON
Colu mbi a Aca cia Club ········ ··10.00
Amount
420t h Dist rict ·····-······-········-··-. $ 5.00 633 Club ---· ·- ··- ··- ··- ···········--·· 10.00
562nd Dist rict ··························-· 10.00 H. F. Red iker ·····-- ·- ··············· 2.50
628th Dist rict ·············-·············- 50.00 Miss Fran ces Selig son .............. 2.50
Ken neth M. Rey nold s .............. 10.00
Tota l ·---····-······-······-··--··...$65.00 Vern on C. Nob le........................ 2.50
Clev elan d C. Coc hran ···- ······CHA PTE RS, 0. E. S.
5.00
Mr. & Mrs. Pete r Verk uyl ......· 2.50
Chapter
No. Amount Mr.
& Mrs. Clar ence R. Dor sey 25.00
Mer cede s ............................126 $ 10.00
T. J. Dyk ema ·-··- ··-·· -······--· 25.00
San Rafa el ·-··-········· ·······.215
10.00
Mill Vall ey ........................219
10.00 Misc ellan eous (thr u A.I.D.) .... 30.60
Tota l --······-··············-··-·---.:$ 30.00

Tota l ······· ········ ···············-···.$190.10

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

429

CH ILD RE N AT CO VIN A HO ME
July 31, 19.5.5
Bo y.- 39

•Ind icate s adm issio n duri ng curr ent
year .
Nam e
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Tow n
Age
Ash urst, Larr y ................Feb . 2, '47
Mag noli a ..........242 San ta Barb ara
....15
Barh am, Earl e ..............Jun e 27, '51
Mon eta ....._.......405 Los Ang eles
Barh am, Jerr y ..............June
......10
'51 Mon eta ······-···-··405 Los Ang
Barr aclo ugh, Will iam• June 27,
eles ........ 8
18, '55 R. E. Doll ey........616 Seal
Bea ch
Beck man , Cha rles ........Nov 12, '49
_11
Eure ka ·····-······--16 Aub urn ................
Burk halt er, Cha rles......Mar .. 26,
........13
'45 Mou nt Oliv e ... .506 Los Ang
eles
........16
Cox, Way ne• ..•...............Aug. 11, '54 Fair
fax ..............556 Lark spur ............
7
Darl ing, Truman. ...........Jan. 28, '48
Dee mer , Rob erl ...............Jan . 6, '52 Libe rty ..............299 San ta Clar a ........12
Oce an Park .... 369 Oce an Park ........
16
Farm er, Rich ard ..............Aug . 5, '53
Tem ple ····-· ·-..-14 Son oma
Fifie ld, Jera ld............... .Aug
. 31, '50 Ben evol ence ....631 Los Ang ---····-··~-12
Finn ey, Cha rles................July 5, '49
eles ........18
Nep tune ............619 Lon g Bea
Finn ey, Mic haeL . ...........July 5,
........14
'49
Nep
tune ............619 Lon g Bea ch ........
Flan niga n, Rich ard ......Jan. 28, '50
12
Ram ona ............457 Mon tere y ch
Park . ...12
Hoa rd, Jam es•- ---·· ····.A pr. 8, '55
Mor
ning
Star
.... 68 Stoc kton ······· -- ··11
Hoa rd, Will iam• ....... _____ .Apr. 8, '55
Mor ning Star .... 68 Stoc
kton ........_. ...13
Hun ter, Tho mas •-·-·· ·Sep t. 10, '54
Sun Gar den ......530 Fres no ................
.. 8
lrlan d, Lyn n...............- .Sep t. 15, '52
All Stat es ..........593 Lon g Bea ch ........
14
Joy, Har ry...-·-- ·--· .Au g. 10, '47
Lon g Bea ch ......327 Lon g Beac h ........13
Kilp atric k, Cha rles......Mar . 16, '52
Kilp atric k, Dav id..........Mar 16, '52 Ram ona --··--·····457 Mon tere y Park .... 8
Ram ona ............457 Mon tere y Park....
Kilp atric k, Pau L. .........Mar .. 16,
8
'52 Ram ona ............457 Mon terey
Kin·g man , Don ald ..........Oct. 7, '53
Park . ... 8
Cah
ueng
a
........
..
513 Holl ywo od ..........10
King man , Jack , ..............Oct. 7, '53
Cah ueng a ..........513 Holl ywo od ........
.. 6
Man n, Tho mas • ............Mar . 5, '55
Med lock . Mar stort • ......Jan. 2 3,'55 Alta Vist a ..........464 San Fran cisc o .... 8
Miceli, Mic hael • ..........Oct. 28, '54 Dam ascu s ..........648 San Bern ardi no 10
Alex andr ia ........531 San Fran
Moody, Lau renc e ........Aug , 15, '53
o ....12
Red ondo ............328 Red ondo cisc
Bea ch 16
Orth , Jerr y..·-····· ·-···· ···Ju ly 23, '54
Nato
ma .... ...... 64 Fols om ···-··Orth , Tho mas ................July 23, '54
······· 9
Nato ma .... ...... 64 Fols
om ···-·· -··-··-11
Plac e, Bar ry -····-----·-.Aug· 9, '47
Burl
inga
Burl
me
......400
inga me ........15
Plat t, Larr y ·--····-··-···.Au g. 20, '52
War rick , Bruc e• ............Nov. 21, '54 S'n Bern ardi no 348 San Bern ardi no 10
War rick , Dav id• ..........Mar . 13. '55 Mon te Vist a ......655 Lon g Bea ch ........ 8
Mon te Vist a ......655 Lon g Bea ch ......
War rick , Dou glas • ......Nov. 21, '54
5
War rick , John • ..............Nov. 21, '54 Mon te Vist a ......655 Lon g Bea eh ···-···10
Mon
te
Vist
a
......
655
Lon
g Bea ch ···----12
War rick , Rob ert• ........Nov . 21, '54
Mon te Vist a ......655
Wylie, Ken neth ..........Jun e 18,
g Bea ch ·-- '1
'52 Univ ersit y ........394 Lon
Los Ang eles ···----11
Yun glin g, Dou glas ........Oct. 10, '53
San ta Pau la ......291 San ta Pau la ........11

Girl s--3 .5

•Ind icate s adm issio n duri ng curr ent
year .
Nam e
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Allison, Lind a ..............June 17, '45
Ash
lar ................306
Barh am, Patr icia ........June 27, '51
Barn ett, Mar ie ..............July 19, '52 Mon eta ..............405
Aco rn ................494
Ben nett, Mab el Jo ......Sep t. 12, '54
Clem ents , Lind a ..............Oct. 7, '53 Sear chli ght ......567
ueng a ..........513
Cox, Geo rgia • ..............Aug. 11, '54 Cah
Fair fax ..............556

Town
Age
Colt on ..................15
Los Ang eles ........11
Oak land ..............12
Lon g Bea ch ........13
Holl ywo od ..........15
Lark spur .....- .....10

430

COVINA CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND, 1954-1955

Name

Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Darling, Mary .............Aug. 26, '46 Liberty ............299 Santa Clara ........16
Deemer, Linda ................Jan. 6, '52 Ocean Park ......369 Ocean Park ........17
Farmer, Judith ···-······-Aug. 5, '53 Temple ···-······- 14 Sonoma. -·-·-·-···15
Farmer, Susan ··-··-··...Aug. 5, '53 Temple ·····-·····- 14 Sonoma ···-··-··-···11
Hacequebord, Patricia Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ........436 Claremont ..........14
Hacequebord, Suzanne Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ........436 Claremont ..........16
Harpster, Adrian ........June 28, '53 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........13
Harris, Bonnie .............Apr. 28, '51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................14
Hoard, Edna* ..................May 8, '55 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............15
Hunter, Ann* ................Sept. 10, '54 Sun Garden ......530 Fresno ---·········10
Johnson, Judith ............8ept. 8, '49 Palestine .........-351 Los Angeles ........14
Johnson, Kathleen ...-.Sept. 8, '49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ···-···12
Larsen, Cherie ..............June 24 ,'52 Culver City ......467 Los Angeles ........17
Larsen Sandra ............June 24, '52 Culver City ......467 Los Angeles ........15
1
Lee, Linda
....................Oct. 18, '53 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles .•......12
Lee, Patricia ···-·············Oct. 18, '53 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles ···-···11
Mann, Mary* ········-······.Mar. 6, '55 Alta Vista ·····-···464 San Francisco ....10
Medlock, Marcia* ........Jan. 23, '55 Damascus ·····-···648 San Bernardino 11
Neilsen, Darlene ....... -.July 1, '52 Covina .........- ..334 Covina -·--~ 7
Neilsen, Linda •.............July 1, '52 Covina ..............334 Covina -·-··-······12
Offinga, Elinor .............Aug. 4 ,'44 Mizpah ..............378 Los Angeles ........16
Ostrander, Carol ..........Sept. 14, '51 Big Bear ..........617 Big Bear Lake....12
Ostrander, Diann .......:Sept. 14, '51 Big Bear ..........617 Big Bear Lake....15
Rose, Loma ·--·-········-Sept. 9, '50 Temple City ....612 Temple City ···-··-11
Weist, Nancy ................Aug. 25, '46 Manchester ......585 Los Angeles ···-···17
Williams, Linda• ..........May 18, '55 Trona ................684 Trona ···--··· ......10
Williams, Sharon• ........May 18, '55 Trona ................884 Trona ···-············· 9
Williams, Shirley• ........May 18, '55 'J1rona ................684 Trona .................. 9
Yungling, Barbara ........Oct. 10, '53 Santa Paula ......291 Santa Paula ........ 9

No. Lodge
~

Boys--10
Age

Admitted

Departed

(At time of Departure)

Anderson, Ray .....................9/11/51 .............7/2/55 ...................................14
Beard, Paul .........................3/29/53.............11/27/54.......... -····················15
Beard, Robert......................3/23/53.............11/27/54................................14
Beard, William• ..................3/16/53 .............6/15/55 ..................................18
Case, Dwight....................... 9/24/46 .............5/13/55 ............ -....................16
Eller, Harold* ...................... 3/14/38.............6/15/55 ..................................17
Foster, Kenneth .................. 7/8/51 ...............1/29/55..................................13
Hacequebord, Charles ....... 1/26/52.............10/15/54..........•....................11
Harris, Earl* ........................3/13/37.............6/15/55 ..................................18
Joy, William* .......................6/15/47.............6/15/55.................................. 18

Girls-4
Name

~eparture)

.
Admitted
Departed
(At time
Achenbach, Patricia. ..........9/11/48 ............ .2/11/55 .................................14
Leach, Madelyn• ................10/1/50.............6/15/55 .................................. 18
Melton, Josephine• ............ 12/5/53 .............6/15/55 ................................. 17
Williams, Jeanette• ........... 6/2/43 ...............6/15/55..................................18

•Graduate

~~1!{~~i~~·····-··--··--'

3 Tehama
·············-·
C . th"·················-····-·
10 s
ian ....................
an ose ........................
12 Yount ............................
g

OJ

rn La
~~:~: . ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::
Parfa1te Union........

17
19
20
21
22
23
24

Amount
5g.o8
10'00
. 0
10.00
15.00
5.00

~:88

No. Lodge
Amount
Excelsior ........................
12.50
167 Alameda ........................
5.00
68 MR~di.yood City..............
10.00
169
lSSlon ···············-·········
25.00
175 Antioch .........................•
15.00
180 Ketaluma ........................
12.50
K~~f~an River ..............
55.00
188 Oakland············-·············
.oo
.
··························
10.00
191 M
s
arm
······························
25.00
192 F anta Barbara ..............
5.00
11993
erndale ·········-·············
5.00
4 BMountain View............
lO.OO
5 _00
195
uckeye ........................
~66

mi

San Joaquin ..................
Washingto
Hawaiian n ··················
Occidental ······················
M d'
····················
Ma _ISon ··························

5 oo
10· 00
o· o
1 .0
2205.00
.00
5.00

-···························
gg golden Gate
..................

1og:o88
0
25:00
15.00
100.0000

3
206
208
220109

:l

10:00
5 oo
51:00
5.80

211
212
215
217

~~ ~~~iEty~~o··::::::::::::::::::::::

35 s~~dnlf~o"·······················
37 Howard ......................
··························
38 Santa Cruz ....................
40 Sacramento ·····-···········
~artinez ........................
c~':c1!Jloriah ..............
45
46 . Texas ......

2~0~~ :~!.ti~g~~~...::::::::::::::::::
Confidence ....................
~tanislaus ......................
Kio Vista ........................
F i!1g David's ················
r1endship ....................
San Benito
south San :Friiiici~co::::
gak Grove ···············-···
Mont~rey ........................

1

~:gg

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.oo
5 00
10:00

1g:o8

~rn s;:~~za."italiaii·········...

H averas ······················

25.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

224
225 srooklyn ........................
226 H~n Mateo ......................
236 Gills Ferry .........~.........

87 Naval ..............................
93 St. Helena···············-·····
9091 Yosemite························
104
ilal!' ................................
1
exmgton ·········-··········
···-······················:
····························
111
ico ·······················-·····
113 Eden................................
··························
., ···················-·····
122 Alamo ............................
······················
e ann ........................
g~ ~~sa1ia ·····················-·····
131 w~u~d ························

25.00
5'00
10:00
10.00
50 00
5:00
10.00
10 00
10°00
10: 00
12 50
5"00
5:00
20.00
20.00
5.00

245
246
253
254
256
258
259
261
262
264
265
267
268
269
272
274

Hesperian ......................
Orland
Galt ....::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Durant ······················-····
Olive Branch ................
Pasadena ........................
Arroyo·········-·················

10.00
25.00
5.00

10:00
15.00
5.00
25.00
10.00

280
281
282
283
285

Madera ..........................
Mount Shasta ················
Calayomi ........................
South West···-···············
San Miguel ....................

5_00
5.00
5 _00
10.00
5.00

:::::::::::::::=::=:::

~~ N~~i~~~~························
. : : : : : : : : : : ~~:g8 ~~g Bakersfield
B~g~Tfte··:::::::::::=~::::::::
:
....................

70
64
778

Departed During the Year August 1, 1954 to July 31, 1955

Name

431

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

atoma ..........................

~erprise ......................

1~.oo

1g:gg
12.50
10.00
25.00
5.00

:! ~~:;~~~::::::::::::::::=:::: Jgg ~:~ ~~~~·:::::::::::::::::: : Jgg

~~~ d~~aro
r~ata

g~ ~fdeci?f~

i~~ taf~ette

134

Vacav~e ~~...::::::::::::::::::

i~: ~~~~c ti···························

143 FraniJin ........................
Ori ntal ························
144 A~ll
··························
146
······························

Laurel
Pomona··::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Landmark
R d"
......................
.....::_:_:.·__:_:._·..·.·__::_:.·_..:.·_._·_:_:__.·:_:_
:_:.:..·

PLe~nraih~yn

Evergreen ......................

Tuscan
Lompoc··::::::::::::::::::::::::::

5
.OO
250.000
1 . 0
g.oo
.00
2g:88
10.00

1g:88
10.00

~:~~

. : : 5~:~~

~·~g ~~~ ~~':i~~r:. :.~~=~~~~

432

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Amount No. Lodge
Amount
No. Lodge
10.00
10.00 415 Silver Trowel ............... .
286 Paso Robles ................. .
48.09
5.00 416 Lindsay ......................... .
289 Elsinore ..........................
5.00
25.00 426 Midwa7 ......................... .
290 East Gate ..................... .
10.00
10.00 428 San Drmas ....................
292 Los Gatos ......................
5.00
10.00 429 Pittsburg ........................
293 Orange Grove ............. .
15.00
10.00 431 Alpha ............................. .
299 Liberty ......................... .
25.00
10.00 433 Hanunonton ................. .
301 Ontario ·······················-·
5.00
10.00 434 Maricopa ....................... .
305 Azusa ............................. .
10.00
5.00 435 Fairmount ......................
306 Ashlar ............................
5.00
7.50 440 Standard ........................
313 Tehachapi ......................
2.50 441 Coronado ....................... .
5.00
314 Temescal ........................
10.00
10.00 447 Torrance ........................
315 Norwalk ....................... .
10.00
83.00 448 Mount Diablo ............. .
319 Hollenbeck ....................
5.00
5.00 449 Park··············-················
321 Alisa! •.............................
15.00
25.00 460 Mount Oso ....................
322 Alhambra ......................
10.00
10.00 461 Argonaut ....................... .
324 Corona ............................
10.00
5.00 462 Paul Revere ..................
326 Needles ......................... .
10.00
15.00 466 Libertas ......................... .
327 Long Beach ................. .
20.00
5.00 467 Culver City ....................
328 Redondo ....................... .
5.00
10.00 468 Rockridge ..................... .
331 Pacific Grove ............... .
10.00
10.00 471 Delta ............................. .
336 Fruitvale ....................... .
5.00
10.00 473 Blythe ........................... .
337 Carquinez ..................... .
10.00
25.00 477 Temblor ......................... .
341 Oxnard ......................... .
15.00
12.50 478 Thousand Oaks ........... .
343 San Fernando ................
10.00
12.50 479 Golden Rule ................. .
344 Starr King ................... .
10.00
12.50 481 Mt. Davidson ................
346 Palo Alto ..................... .
10.00
15.00 483 Bell ................................. .
347 McKinley ........... .. ........ .
10.00
10.00 484 Albert Pike ................... .
348 San Bernardino ........... .
25.00
10.00 485 Chowchilla ................... .
349 Sequoia ..........................
25.00
10.00 486 Caledonia ..................... .
351 Palestine ....................... .
10.00
17.50 487 Vallejo ···-·······················
353 Pinole ............................. .
5.00
25.00 489 East Bay ....................... .
356 Mill Valley ....................
5.00
12.50 493 Atascadero ................... .
360 San Francisco ............. .
10.00
7.80 494 Acorn ..............................
362 Charity ......................... .
10.00
25.00 497 Fremont ....................... .
367 South Pasadena ......... .
25.00
5.00 499 Capital City ................. .
369 Ocean Park ................... .
..................... .
5.00
10.00 500 Roosevelt
370 Amity ..•.........................
10.00
502 Harbor ............................
25.00 503 Point ..............................
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
12.50
5.00 507 El Segundo ....................
374 Jewel ............................. .
15.00
10.00 510 Cupertino ..................... .
376 Francis Drake ............. .
10.00
10.00
5.00 511 Sunnyvale ..................... .
377 Artesia ···-················-·····
10.00 513 Cahuenga ..................... .
10.00
378 Mizpah ............................
15.00 514 Argonne ........................
15.00
379 Fillmore ........................
10.00
5.00 516 Taft ................................
382 Highland Park ............. .
10.00 518 La Jolla ......................... .
10.00
384 El Centro ....................... .
10.00 520 Ionic ................................
25.00
387 Coalinga ....................... .
10.00 521 Piedmont ..................... .
20.00
388 Parnassus ..................... .
5.00
50.00 525 George Washington ... .
393 Balder ............................
10.00
5.00 526 Bay City ....................... .
397 Rising Light .............. ,...
10.00
25.00 527 Covenant ........................
4-00 Burlingame ..................
5.00
10.00 531 Alexandria ................... .
401 Bay View············-········
11.00
10.00 539 Belvedere ···········-·········
402 Brawley ......................... .
15.00
5.00 540 Queen Beach ............... .
403 Yerba Buena ................
5.00
10.00 541 Henry M. Stephens ..... .
405 Moneta ............................
10.00
5.00 546 San Gabriel ................. .
407 La Mesa ·········-···············
5.00
25.00 550 Seaport ......................... .
409 Honolulu ········-··············
5.00
10.00 551 Lakeshore ..................... .
410 Charter Rock ............... .
10.00
10.00 552 Semper Virens ............. .
411 Perris ............................. .
10.00
10.00 558 Point Firmin ................
414 Arlington ..................... .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. lodge

Amount

561 East San Diego..............
574 S. W. Hackett ................
576 El Cajon Valley ..........
578 Progressive ....................
580 Santa Maria ··············-··
581 Security ..........................
589 Kauai ·············-···············
590 Compass ........................
592 Tujunga ·····-···················
594 Service ..........................
595 Alexander G. Bell.......
603 Dimond ---·····················
609 Provident ......................
619 Neptune ........................
620 Point Loma ....................
621 The Gardens ..................
635 Riverside ........................
637 Palisades ........................
638 Indian Rock -·-·············
643 Alta Loma ......................
645 A. F. E. Irwin ................
650 La Brea ···········-·············
661 Malta ..............................
662 Henry Knox ..................
665 Kaweah ..........................
668 San Gorgonio ................
669 John P. Jarman............
673 Far West ........................
675 Modesto ····················-····
676 Willow Glen ..................
680 Carmel ............................
681 Dos Palos ........•.............
686 Albany............................
688 Oilda.Je ............................
690 San Carlos ·········-·········
691 Indian Wells Valley......
711 Rim of the World..........
718 San Lorenzo Valley......
719 Estero ·········-···················
720 Mineral King ................
725 Saint John's ..................
737 Hillsborough ................
Peninsula U . D. ............

Council

433
No. Amount

10.00
5.00
20.00 Chico ·····-··························· 42
12.50
···-·························· 44
10.00 Visalia
Santa Rosa ........................ 45
5.00
30.00 Humboldt .......................... 52
5.00
5.00
10.00
···-···-··········-··········· 53
5.00 Ukiah
St. Helena .......................... 63
5.00
25.00 Riverside ............................ 67
2.50
10.00 . Crown ................................ 72
5.00
27.00 Hanford ..•........................... 74
25.00
25.00 Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
15.00 Ferndale
5.00
·-························· 78
10.00 Calaveras ·················-······· 83
2.50
25.00 San Pedro .......................... 89
5.00
10.00 Whittier .............................. 91
10.00
10.00 Fidelity
5.00
·-··············-··········· 96
15.00 San
Gabriel Valley ..........100
10.00
15.00
5.00
10.00 Redondo ···-····-················-101
2.50
10.00 Marin ···-··-·························102
5.00
10.00 Mill Valley ···················-···108
10.00 South Pasadena ................ 112
5.00
5.00
10.00 Sebastopol ···········-······•····117
5.00 Inglewood ··················-······131
10.00
5.00 Searchlight
10.00
10.00 Mark T. Lee·············-·········133
Chapter of
10.00
Eagle Rock ....................134
5.00
5.00 Wilmington ......................141
5.00
5.00
Havasue ·····-·······················148
5.00
5.00
5.00
Total ········-·····················-*218.zB
5.00
COUNCILS, R. Be S. M.
7.50
5.00 Council
No. Amount
5.00 Sacramento ...................... 1 $ 5.00
10.00 Marysville ·······-··············· 3
5.00
10.00 Gateway ........•................... 13
2.50
5.00 Pasadena·······················-··· 16
5.00
5.00 Santa Cruz ··············-········ 17
2.50
5.00
5.00 Alhambra .......................... 25
5.00 Pacific ········-·····--·--····-··· 37
5.00
2.50 Harbor ········-··········-········· 45
5.00
10.00 Redwood Empire ............ 46
5.00
10.00 Colusa ········-···-·······-···-···
60
5.00
5.00
Total .....................:$3,258.89 Palo Alto··-···········-··········· 93

CHAPTERS, R. A. M.
Council
No. Amount
Sacramento ···-················· 3 $ 5.00
Nevada .............................. 6
2.50
Cyrus ..•........•...................... 15
Grass Valley ...................... 18
Petaluma ............................ 22
Delta ···········-····················· 27
Napa .....•.............................. 30
Martinez ............................ 31
Naval •................................. 35
Siloam ••.............................. 37
Santa Cruz ........................ 38

5.00
2.50
1.25
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50

Total ···-··•·········-·········-··-' 50.00
COMMANDERIES, K.T.
Commanderg
No. Amount
Sacramento ·············-····-· 2 $ 5.00
Oroville .............................. 5
10.00
Nevada .............................. 6
7.50
Marysville ........................ 7
5.00
San Jose ............................ 10
5.00
Chico ···-····························· 12
5.00
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
5.00
Naval ···-····························· 19
5.00
Watsonville ---·············--· 22
5.00
St. Bernard ........................ 23
5.00

43,4
Commandery

No.

Amount

MISCELLAN EOUS

Amount
10.00
$
....................
Carroll
T.
5.00 Edward
Colusa ····-························· 24
1.00
Company....
Jewelry
Marty's
12.50
26
··-····
Visalia ···-··-·····-·····-·
5.00
5.00 Gaston E. Gregory....·-··-·········
San Luis Obispo................ 27
H. Stevenson........................ 100.00
10.00 E.
Pasadena .•.......................... 31
5.00
University Square Club..........
5.00 Miguelito Circle ·-····-·············
5.00
Eureka ·-··-··-······--··········· 35
2.50
10.00 C. G. Stratton............................
Southern California ........ 37
5.00
.....
Whitley.........
C.
I.
&
S.
G.
5.00
41
....................
San Francisco
50.00
.....................
Stamey.........
L.
F.
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
Wimodausis Club ···········-······· 10.00
5.00
10.00 George and Helen Branson....
Alhambra ········-··········-··· 48
5.00
5.00 Jean A. Denoy..........................
Auburn -·--··-··--············· 52
15.00 Columbia Acacia Club............ 10.00
Hollywood ........................ 56
············· 10.00
633 Club --········--······
5.00 C.
San Pedro .......................... 60
5.00
L. Eck.....................................
1.00
10.00 Anonymous ..............................
Calvary ·······················-····· 62
Edison Masonic Club................ 167.88
2.50
Total----··--· ···-·········-*11 57.50 H. F. Rediker......... ...................
A. 81: A. S. R.
Amount Bethel No. 189 of Westchester 25.00
...... 25.00
Oakland Bodies ·····················-··-' 25.00 Irma Rhodes ........................
Fresno Lodge of Perfection.... .. 50.00 Colton Assembly, 0. R. G..... 15.00
W. A. Sloan............. ................... 25.00
2.50
Frances Seligson..............
Total ·····-;·-··'"-········-··-·· 75.00 Miss
Kenneth M. Reynolds.............. 10.00
2.50
DISTRICT OFFICERS
Vernon C. Noble........................
3.00
ASSOCIATI ON
·Crawford B. Ursery................
2.50
Amount Mr. and Mrs. Peter Verkuyl
Percy E. Essex.......................... 37 .00
420th District ·········-·····-·· ····--' 5.00 Sunshine Post No. 251,
614th District ···········-'···-············ 30.00
American Legion ................ 10.00
628th District ·······---···············- 50.00 S. E; Noyes............................... . 25.00
Telephone Masonic Club ....... . 16.00
5.00
Total··-·-·· -·······-··-.$ 85.00 Cleveland C. Cochran. ............ .
5.00
.
.....
Association
Chain
Golden
CHAPTERS, O. E. S.
Santa Maria Assembly No. 92,
No. Amount
Chapter
O. R. G................................... 10.00
Mercedes ··-··---·-··--· --128 $ 10.00 Santa Maria Chapter No. 552,
DeMolay •............................... 10.00
10.00
Santa Clara ......................195
Warren........................ 10.00
10.00 John F. Baker............
San Rafael ·····-·················215
3.00
................
10.00 Paul R.
Mill Valley ···-···-·····--·.. 219
So. Pacific Square &
10.00
··-···..238
Jewel ···-··-······-··-··
9.00
Compass Club ......................
. 50.00 Mr. and Mrs. C. R. ·Dorsey.... 25.00
Burbank -·-·-·--···-·· ·352
10.00 Miscellaneou s (thru A. I. D.) 772.82
Siloam ···-···········-·············406
10.00
Melita ·······-····················-·467
Total ········-··-·········-··--$1483.20
Total ···-···.,··--·······-···-····-$120.00

~:ug~e~~~~~-~=-=-~~~~~ ::::::

435

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

i8:88

HOME STATISTI CS
NUMBER OF RESIDENTS AS OF JULY 31, 1955

Men Women
Decoto Home:
197
Residents, August 1, 1954.................................. 122
37
31
....................
....................
....................
Admitted
22
25
.
Died and Withdrawn.......................................
212
Residents, July 31, 1955..........................•...~---·· 128

Total

Girls
30
9
4
35

Total

Boys
Covina Home:
Residents, August 1, 1954.................................. 36
Admitted .................•.......................................... 13
Graduated and Withdrawn.............................. 1O
Residents. July 31, 1955........................~---········ 39

319
68
47
340

66
22
14
74

PER CAPITA CosT

Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal
Year Ending July 31, 1955
Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenanc e. ...........................................................$392,435.79
329
Average .number of residents............................. ~................
Average operating cost per month..•.·-·-··············-··········-' 32,702.98
1,090.1 O
Average cost per day....·-········-·························· ...·········...•···
1,192.81
Average cost per resident per year...............,.......·-············
99.40
Average cost per resident per month..................................
3.31
....
....................
day..............
per
resident
per
Average cost
111
.
....................
Average number of employftS.......................
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenanc e. .................................................•.........$177,974.67
74
· Average number of residents..............................................
14,831.22
........
Average operating cost per month.......... ~....................
494.37
Average cost per day..............•....................·-····..-···········-···
2,405.06
.........
....................
year.............
per
child
Average cost per
200.42
Average cost per child per ~onth..·-···············-··•-··•·...:.,.....
6.68
Average cost per child per day............................................
35
...................
-..................
...••
employees
of
Average number

•

436

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONTR IBUTIO NS TO SPECIAL FUNDS
RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEM ENTS

Estate of George Crowley ·········································-····--·····$ 9,819.96
Estate of George Weatherb ee ............•..................................... 34,054.33
350.00
McCandle ss Estate ....................................................................
4,648.53
Estate of Lottie R. Richardson..................................................
6,531.14
Tonnings on Estate ..................................:.................................
32,119.37
..............
................
................
Estate of Wilhelm E. Wallgren..
Estate of Robert H. WrighL............................................·-····· 145,052.59
19.50
Estate of Melville Dreyfous ......................................................
Estate of Edna ·G. Earhoff.....•.... ,............................................. 25,000.00

Total..... _.........................................................................$.257,595.42
COVINA SPECIAL FUND

500.00
Estate of Sara Amols ···························-······:.............:.. - .......... $
.
1,000.00
.......
.................
.................
.................
Barrett.
·P.
Estate of John
3,848.19
Estate of Mysie B. Benedict..................................................... .
Estate of Arthur J. Bradley....................................................... . 6,285.15
Estate of Etta Eva Countess..................................................... . 21,250.00
2,760.31
Estate of Lena C. Fros8ard..•.....................................................
64.14
.
................
.................
.................
Hickman
A.
Estate of Harry
1,874.56
Estate of William A. Mcintosh............................................... .
8,977.09
Estate of Grace 0. Miller......................................................... .
14.39
.
...........
.................
Anonymo us ...................................................
.
5,574.04
.........
.................
.................
Rausch
Estate of Charles Wesley
Estate of Eva Stavnow .............................................................. 52,421.36
194.25
Estate of Mattie Tapp Travis..........·-··-··-·······························
100.00
·············
·-···-··-·····
..........
.................
Wood.
R.
Philip
of
Estate

Total...................................................._....;......................$104,863.48
DECOTO SPECIAL FUND

500.00
Estate of Sara Amols .........•~.....................................................$
500.00
....
.....•..........
.................
Estate of Sara Jane Bethune.................
Estate of Annie Mable Biggs.....................•.....................•........ 11,136.57
50.00
Estate of Rose A. Cyrua....................................r··········-···········
.
.....
2,760.31
.................
Estate of Lena C. Brossard.................................
776.52
Estate of Frank W. Hardin......................................................
.
14.39
...........
Anonymo us ....................................................................
200.00
Estate of Aimee M. Post. .......................... ·-··•···························
Total.................................... --................._.....................$ 15,937.79

GENER AL APPEN DIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

437

GENERAL APPEN'D IX
CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees ............................................................................ 438
Special Committees ............................................................... ,............... 441
Constitutional Boards .......................................................................... 444
Directors Masonic Clubhouses ............................................................ 445
Registration and Mileage Payments .................................................. 446
List of Constituent Lodges ................................ ._................................ 486
Extinct Lodges ...................................................................................... 505
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization .......................... 509
List of Inspectors ................. ................................................................. 515
Foreign Grand Lodges ........................................................................ 518
Alphabetical List of Lodges .................................................................. 523
Correspondence Report Announcement ............................................ 530
Index ...................................................................................................... 531

·

438

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

439

PAY OF MEMBERS

1955- 1956
STAN DING

COM MITT EES

JURISP RUDEN CE
John R. Moore 'c667) ......... _. ____________·-·--········· ·-·-·-'fS3 S. s0311ist. , Los Angeles 13
dg., l.oa Angeles 15
Oscar Lawler (290).·-·-- ···········-·- ·········-···· ··800 Standard

~:: ~~~~~-=:::::::=::=:=:::::::::::==:=:=.~~-~~~:~..~~1:a~!~~ll~
J\:h;vp~
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ........................................................... 500 Sunset Ave., Oak View

o
Otto Rohwer (3) .............................................................. Anglo Bank Building, Sacrament
Francisco 2
Milton D. Sapfro ( 120) ................................... .................. ..........Qty Hall, SanFrancisco
16
· Carl H. Allen (388) ..........................................................2301 Yorba St., San
Roy L. Herndon (685) ...................................................... 1512 Virginia Rd., San Marino 9

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Leslie E. Wood (609) ..................................................................611 "J" St.. Sacramento 14

Fresno 1
Chester H. Warlow (247) ............................................ 1004 Security Bank Bldg.,
Angele,A!l
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ....................................................2071 Esc:arpa Dr., Los
a
St., Santa
Aug_l1Stus H. Allen (241) ......................................................614 S. McClaSan
Francisco 10
Ira W. Coburn (216) ..................................................2440 Mariposa St.,
7
Richard H. Chamberlain (521 ) ......................................................Court House, ..Oakland
Pasadena
Ralph T. Merriam (272) ........................................................723 Security Bldg
Angeles 36
John A. Sickenberger (392) ......................................357 So. Curson Ave., LosFrancisco
14
Paul Cowgill (1) .............................................. 170 Graystone Terrace, San

FINAN CE
17
Frank Harwell, Jr.................................................................623 S. Hope St., Los Anr)es
cadia
F. Wesley Davies (577) ........................................................849 San Vicente Rd.,
20
Ben C. Corlett ( 12) ......................................................464 California St., San Francisco 22
Paul F. Balck ( 144) ...................................................... 1844 , 28th Ave., Sen Franct;U
Alfred H. Nicoll (481 ) ·-················································23370 Camino Hennoso, Los tos
Field Thom~son (566) ................................................................3004 Ross Ave., Alhambra
Frederic G. Doan (352) .•....·-··········-····-·······-····-··10621 Victory Blvd., No. Hollywood

GRIEV ANCES
~o
·······················County Courthouse, San
Joe L. Shell (35l·············································
g
Re
Albert F. Ross 254) .....................- .............................................................Box 759,
4
Francisco
San
St.,
Sutter
111
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ....................................................
Ralph E. Hoyt (268) ...._..............................................................89 Hillcrest Rd., Berkeley
Dr., Portuguese Bend
Ralph K. Pierson (273)--- ·--········· ·-·········H W. Sea Cove
William B. Neeley (Oakwood UD.)-- --··---- -H29 Virginia Ave., Glendale
Byron C. Morton (259)----- ··--··-······- -············· ---······-··- ··3972 Main St., Riverside

Gardena
Keith W. Schlaegel (372) ................................................................16219 S. Main,
John V. Bacigalupi (191) ............................................................ 108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
5
Matthew M. Codon (42) .....·--···-······- ··············· ·530 S. Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles
Ave., Huntington Park
Claud D. Black (397)--• -······---- ······-···.2 862 California
13, T.H.
Alex. D. Potts (371) ..........................................................927 Bethel St., Honolulu
Drive, Chico
T. W. Moore (111) ..............................................................................57 Oak
Leland Roberts (628) ..................................................7116 Vanscoy Ave., No. Hollywood

CHART ERS
Angeles H
Herbert A. Huebner (-445) ..............................................610 S. Broadway, LosFrancisco
16
Harold Meyer (481) ......................................................2243, 3-tth Ave., San
130 Parks Rd., Burlingame
···-·
Kenneth R. Ford (400)
Brown Zarley (573) ......................................................................- .... 1952 Marin, Berkeley 7
Robert A. Smith (426) ............................................................................429 Center St.. Taft
George Q. Evans (273)--·- ······-··-·-- ······-······ ···-·-··--.. ...20f So. Locust, Compton4
Joseph F. Coyle (700) .................. .................. .................................... 1370 Linden, Fresno
Philip B. Stone (727) ....................................................................639 E. Valencia, Burbank
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728) ............................................ 1360 Newport Ave., Long Beach 4
Rd., Sanger
Wayne E. Burk (316)--························································-248 So. McCall
Ralph E. Olstad (388)--··- ·-··············-·····················--1673, 17th Ave., San Francisco 22

BY-LAWS
Appeal, Sacramento 14
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ..·-······-···-···-·--··········-··Court0of
Oriole Rd., Santa Barbara
Wm. W. McKee (642) ....·-··--- ·----.. ...111N. Foothill
Rd., Beverly Hills
Robert C. PeY:fl>n (392) ... _.............................................910
Ralph Pratt (307) ........................................................ 14237~ Dickens St., Sherman Oaks3
William H. Adams (363) ...................................................... 1343 McGee Ave., Berkeley
Charles J. Mickelllon (549l--······························--···124 Noriega St., San Francisco 22
Robert J. Grosh (5H)-:--· ···-·--·-··· ···-·····--. ...311 Whiting Woods Rd., Glendale 8

CORRESPONDENCE
Newcomb Condee (614) .....---....- ·-·----- -$uper ior Court, Los Angeles 12
Los Angeles 13
George W. Burch, Jr. (650) ..·-············-···············--·····-·····417 S. Hill St., Los
Angeles 43
Graham A. Backus (595)......._..- ...··--····-·-· ··-··3157 W. 18th Place,
San Francisco
John Wullschleger (550J---·· ·············· ·············· ·····-··!H2 Howard St.,Los
Angeles 49
Folmar Blangsted (506)---- -·-·--······ ·····-·····- 13075 Sunset Blvd.,
Angeles 35
Robert E. Reel (528) ········· - · - -························1268 S. Camden Dr., Los
Joseph A. Visger III (529)---- ···--·-·-··· ···········-- ···2650 Clyde Ave., Los Angeles 16

CREDENTIALS

GRAN D LODGE WEEK ACTIV ITIES

Angeles
Thomas F. Mason (198) ....................................................916 No. Edgemont, LosFullerton
C. Stanley Chapman (339) ..........................................................Chapman Ranch,Oakland
2
Carroll A. Trefts (403) ....................................................899 Glendome Circle,
Lodi
Don E. Berry_ (568) .......................................................................... 222 West Pine St.,Maria
Santa
Douglas H. Martin (237) .................................... ................619 E. El Camino.Ave.,
Lindsay
William H. Lyon (416) .................................... ...................... 825 No. Bellah
Harry F. Luttlcken ( 166) .......................................... 1611 Seventh Ave., San Francisco 22

Andrew Burke (549) ············-····························-···-···-25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Samuel F. Worswick (494) ................___________.,.___ 1433 Madison St., Oakland 12
Bernie J. Katz ( 120) ........................................................ 1864, 28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Elmer~- Elsen (188)_....................._______.................._._Jof993 Patten St., San Leandro
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462) ..........................................3939 Ortega St., San Francisco 22
Geurge J. Blodgett (35.f)_.........-··-··-··-· ···-···---1 024 Whltwell Rd., Hillsborough
Albert W. Crumpton (30) .........·--·······-·······..····-·....3025 Lincoln Way, San Francisco 22

440

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA ·

441

LODGE FINA NCIN G
go Hargrav e St., Inglewood
F.clward J. Blicltfeldt (535) ---······-· ·-···-···-- ·····-····· ······__s
·-··············--··_..354 - 17th St., Oakland 12
E. Herbert Phillips
Box 414, San Rafael
. Walter Pybon (166 ......................................................................S.P.O.
Reno St., Los Angeles 5
Mark A. Green (32 ) ............................ ............................318-B
Presidio Dr., San Diego
Glen C. Holbert (441) .............. ...............................................2360
Street, Sacramento 16
Harold N. Richards (20) ........................... ....................... 2608 "R"
82nd St., Los Angeles 47
Leslie S. Wayma n (587) ___•...................................... 1406 West
, Los Angeles 8
Robert H. Mason (584) ..........................................................3971 Hepburn
Los Angeles 27
Rd.,
Lowry
·-3231
-··········
·-·--·-···
·-······-··
(467)
Jr.
e,
Herbert Hargrov

SPE CIAL

8349) .................................

NECR OLOG Y
od Ave., Los Angeles 5
Roy C. Bryan (513) ...................................................... 829 Longwo
1457 Gilbert St., Haywar d
Ross K. Roper (360) .....................................................................17121
Wildway, Los Gatos
Adam B. Morten (346) ...............................................................
Jackson St., San Francisco
Thomas W. Chinn (260) .......................................... ............322905
ldlewood Rd., Glendale
Donald G. Edmonston (458) ....................................................

RITU AL
Russell St.. Berkeley
Elbert W. Davis (571 )-···························································-...2908
Gridley
·····---Route l, Box 162,
·······································..............
Clare B. Campbell (230) ·············
.............. Box 722, Linden
Ralph M. Foote ( 135) ........................................................
, San Francisco
Arthur J. Kahn (462) ........................................................ _..20ff ~St.
...Box 887, Bakersfteld
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ............................................... San Marino 9
Donald G. Campbell (608) ...................•...........................-2730 Lorain Rd.,
Long Beach 7
Ave.,
LewJa
19
········-37
····-·······
······-·····
·-·······-·(327)Shaw
Oark H.

MASO NIC HIST ORY
of PaciJk, Stocltton 4
Rd., Walnut Creek
Valley
Ygnado
······3087
··············
---····-····
(122)
0. J. Wohl_gemuth
Place, Oakland 2
Funston
17
---21
........
......•.......
•..
.•............
401)
Trigg~H.
Arthur
834, Sacramento
Box
0.
P.
............
......
..............
..............
..............
579)
Brainard
W.
Carl
Los An_geles 3i
Ave.,
Veteran
.3284
...........
..............
..............
..............
)
(
Frank Everett
Ave., Downey
Downey
So.
12030
......
..............
..............
..............
(220)
Shirley
Claudis T.
lndependence
....
..............
..............
..............
..............
..............
..............
(221)
Martin E. Ni1ius

Leon 0. Whitsell (293) ...- .............. .......................................College

COM MITT EES

RESE ARCH

............320 Security Bldg., Long Beach 2
~;:~~;;:: <m) ..........................................
) .............................................. 220 Mont~omery St San Franci~~o
A

(
...... 11-.
La urence E . D ayton
(61) ................................................. 183 M agellan·• Dr.. Oakland
Zarle (573)
Bro-WU
7
Berkeley
Ave.,
Marin
1952
............
Samuel Steefua n (JSS·)··········-.....................................
1057 Stearns Dr., Los Angele&
Jav D. Rinehart 599 ........................................................
Orange Ave., Pasadena 7
E.dward H Rowfu.!I ) ..................................................2225 East
(324) ............................ ..................922 North Craig Ave., Pasadena 7
·

CONS TITU TION MON TH OBSE RVAN CE
n Dr·' Oakland
LaurleUncezE. Dhayton 1(6j>-·-············-··························:··----1832 Ma~e!Ja

4-. ) ..•.................................•................•45 - 25th ve., San Francisco
Car H.
rison(5~3)
. ace
Polloclt
H
...................................................................... P. 0. Box 187, Wasco
(647)
Ecltm
.
F:cP'w
................................................... .465 North Grevillea, Hawthorne
62
an
Mud
Harold C.
9
) ..................................................722 W 41st St. Loll Angeles 37
(
McCglaett
p
R'cha d
(561 ) ......................................2546 Montclair St., San Diego 4
Jr.
)Y•
R~I hrE. Ellis (99
21st St., Merced
auJon W. Gilm. ..(678·)······························:························--212 West St., Altadena 9
Eu ene L. Thom°:se (463) ......................................................-;2_:JfJ Athens
·-········· ·····-····· -·-.--····· ··---·---....!";.(), Box 563, Morgan Hill
g

TAXA TION
o
) ..........................................
349 ···-········--·······---···········-···················-1924 B!'O&dway, Oakland 12

Frandsc
Croce {354) .......... _...................................... 1628-18t.b Ave SanFrancisc
flexT~L.
o4
568
.......... 111 Sutter St., San

R'::t Ji y

k

or

DE MOLA Y
R~N1!i°!:(Jl68 ) ........................................................ 1025 Linden Ave., Glendale 1

~!':eer

PUBLIC SCHO OLS
Addison St.. Van Nuys
Vierling Kersey (698) ........................................................- ..13132
Dove Court. San Diego 3
George K. Palmer (-442) ................................................... _.3509
Way, Santa Barbara
Delmar W. May (242) .._................................................2962 Arriba
Ave., Sacramento 14
7th
2001
........
..............
..............
..............
(609)
ist
Applequ
A.
Harrv
Palm.as, Los Angeles
Las
No.
606
............
..............
..............
(513)
mery
Montgo
G. Millage
Ave., Bakersfield
Acacia
.500
...........
..............
..............
..............
(695)
Gardner
ell
MacDoW
Rd., Oakland
Cross
135
..
..............
..............
..............
..............
468)
(
Lancey
De
Clarence A.
606, Yreka
Box
0.
P.
.......
..............
..............
..............
..............
....•.........
(37).
William Harris
El Centro
1180,
Box
0.
···-..P•
········-·Charles E. Sones (384) .·--·····- ·····--···· ···-.-···-

r
(4 ~·--- .................................................. 11574 E. Stroud Ave., Kingsbu
Let G B
Sacramento 1X
St.,
..
L
..
2730
...
..............
..............
..............
..............
(518)""
C:i~
ti.
RJ,:i
......950 Oliver St., San Otego 9
Ro H. Gerard (366) ........................................................
1428 Thomas Ave., Fresno
........
..............
..............
..............
..............
(497)
Olsen
C~ O
Circle, Oakland 19
Carmelo
El
28
...........
..............
..............
··-...........
)
(406·
Daniel Haworth
..........................................................315 No. Reese Place, Burbank
0

99

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

COL UMB IA TEMPLE
.. ... ....•... ··--··· Bo ~ -936, Sonora
Cecil B. Mathews (8) ----·-· -·~ ....... ....... _. ·----·--· ·~········· · -· ···---·----------------·---··-···-·-- ·Sonor a
------·---------··---········--Arthur E. Oink ( 8) ·-·······························
24 Poplar, San Bruno
··-···-2
·--·--··
·······-·
·········
Chester M. Smith (525) ...·-···-··· ·········
Sacramento
········· ········· -····--- Asaess or'1 Office.Bldg.,
G. C. McKJnley (3)---· ··-·-·-·· ·········..•..
Visalfa
lit Nat1 Bank
Marvi n 0. Winni ngs (128)-............ ~ .....·-··--·S ecurity

MEM ORIA L TEMPLE
-·-··-1106 Broadway, Oaklan d 7
Edwar d H. Siems (560) ·-------------·-·----·--·-------···--·---------------------2121 Diesel St., Oaklan d 6
Otto H. Fischer (215) ...·--····--····-·····-···········-·--·-----------------rnia St., San Francisco 20
Califo
··-164
·····-·-····
·-···-···
--···-········--166)
(
Boyey
C.
John
0 - 16th St., San Francisco 3
·····-306
···········
···········
···········
··----····
(481)
n
Warre
M.
Arthur
··.Mtlla Bldg., San Francisco 4
Paul A. PHueger (370)·-·-················-···········-························

INVE STM ENT COM MIT TEE
------------Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Paul A. PHueger (370)--···-··········-···-···-·--··--··········--·-·---·--···-···
··--.1106 Broadway, Oaklan d 7
·······-···
··--··-·-·
····-······
·-·········
(560)
Edwar d H. Siems
S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
-·-·623
···-······
···········
··········
--···--·
..
(528)
Frank Harwell, Jr.
al Annex, Los Angeles 54
Termin
2282,
Box
0.
P.
....
...........
-..........
(352).
Head
H.
Ralph
St., San Francisco 9
Sutter
90
········12
···-·······
-··········
············
..
John W. Davey (260)-·····-···

DIST INGU ISHE D GUESTS
Memorial Park, San Francisco 25
M. Jay Jensen (454)-----·-·····---····-···--··-----c/o Olivet Montg
omery St., San Francisco 4
·---315
···················
Horace W. Rice (19).-- -·-··-···
tas Dr., San Francisco
La~l}i
40
····-···-····-····-·
·--·--··-·
Roy Wielan d (454).---·-············-···-··
ood Ave., Oaklan d
Bdgew
···4630
···········
-·-·······
George P. Silliman (494) ....·-···-·············San Francisco
Ave.,
ut
Farra9
·····SO
···········
John H. Brooke (562)·-········--······················

COMMERCIALISM
West Sea Cove Dr., Portuguese Bend
Ralph K. Pierson (273)---················-················-·,... ···--···
··1620 Belmont Ave., Fresno 1
····-····--·····
..
...........
(530)
Herber t R. Hargra ve
. 100 Bush St.. San Francisco
.........•.
............
............
:
......
...........
453)
(
rdo
McMu
Vincent P.
Lorain Rd., San Marino 9
···2730
············
············
···-·-·-···
Donald G. Campbell (608) ···-······31 Mollywood. La Mesa
-----92
··············-···
·····-···
Willar d A. Braasch (296) .•....·-·······
Markham Way, Sacramento 9
Adln Henderson (499 )---- ·----- -····-- ·····-1841

REC OGN ITIO N OF FOR EIGN GRA ND LODGES

453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
John R. Moore (667 )----· ······· ···f Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 31
-···t()()
-···-·············
-·········
(247)w
Cheste r H. Warlo
.16th St., San Francisco
Arthur M. Warre n (481).••.- ............•....................•....•.•-3CJ60

COM MISS ION ON REVISION OF ROSS DIGEST
···-···· ·-136 0 Grove St., Alameda
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) ···-····- ···-·-·· ····-·-Security Bldg., Long Beach 2
·-···320
······-····
·····-·-···
············
··-·······(504)-Everet t Houser
of America Bldg., Santa Rosa
··Bank
---···--·
········-············
······-····
Edwar d T. Koford (57)
95 So. 16th St., San Jose 12
·-··--6
--··-···---··-··-···
Howar d W. Campen (399)········-- --·-·-··· ·····--.E I Centro
····-····---··--···
···---····-Elmer W. Heald (384)---········-······---·--

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

443

SOJO URN ERS

333 E. Second St., Los Angeles 12
Harry P. Ritchie (623) ..................................................
Valencia St., San Francisco 10
.1048
......
...........
...........
...........
(455)
ee
MacPh
Cheste r R.
ma Drive, San Francisco
Panora
·--·--140
-·--····--··
····-··-·------····-J. Leo Halley (375) ··--·······108, Santa Marga rita
Box
Route
r
-··-··Sta
···········
Walte r Clat,o n (493)--······················
St., Carpenteria
Sixth
0f
·---50
·····-·
······Marcus E. ravena (......J----- --·····
Francisco 10
······-·· ········J MS Dolores St., San
Westle r. P. Jones (745)- --··-···· ··········
So. Bronson Ave., Los Angeles 43
Albert . Victor (522) _ _._ ____ ··-·····················4135
..4223 Shaw St., Long Beach 3
Theodoric C. Lindrlcum (594) ............................................
.... .4785 Soria Dr., San Diego
...........
...........
...........
...........
George E. Adams (574) ...........

OLD MAS ONIC HAL L IN LOS ANGELES

South Hope St., Los Angeles 17
l
Genera
..100
••
..
(355)
on
p E. Anders
........3030 West Six.th St., Los Angeles 5
hi! N. Ml{era (430) ............................................
_s.30 So. RoM1Dore Ave., Los Angeles 5
___
_____
•..
'...!
..
.
(42).-.
Codon
•
w
Matthe

~ank Harwell, Jr. (528) ............................................623 Petroleum Bldg., Los Angeles 17
M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-

•

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONSTITUT IONAL

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

BOARDS

DIRECTORS

ENDOWMENT BOARD
Ernest G. Bashor (352) ............................................3161 Los Feliz Blvd., Los Angeles 39
Ira D. Wheeler (637) ......................................... .............................Box 891, Santa Monica
Omo E.. Tyler (442) ............................................................3921 Kamaa St., San Di:%o 4
Clovis J. RObert (202) ......................................... ........ .576 San Marino Ave., San Ga riel
Lester A. Price (379) ....................................................................458 Saratoga St., Fillmore
John M. Gordon (202) ................................................3446 Amesbury Rd., Holl~ood 27
Byron Coleman (453) ................................................ 220 Montgomery St., San ranclaco
Leonard R. Avilla (346) .................................................... 1717 Middlefteld Rd., Palo Alto
Rue W. Sims (188) ..............................................................898 Rodney_Dr., San Leandro
Norbert MflCter (424) ......................................... .............................20t E. Pine St., Exeter
Marion A. Long (46$) ..................................................................324 College Ave., Fresno
hn Kahler (60t) ................................................................ 1324 N. Lowell St., Santa Ana
ohn W. Davey (260) ......- ...- ................................--1290 Sutter St., San Frand&co 9
erm.it A. Jacobson (599) .................................................--.1720 Maple St.. Pasadena 4
Horace R. LaPortune (3) ........................................ 1400 Rcbermon Way, Sacramento 18

Jack C. Butler (58) ............................................................Chamber of Commerce, Redding

Gu)'. A. Tolle (?77) .................................................. 200 E . Slauson Ave., Los Angeles 54

Regmald M. Mills (61) ................................................ 1059 Market St., San Francisco 3
Edward A. Johnson (3S) ...................................................... 1035 Alberta Pl., San Diego 3
Richard Crowe (681) ........................................................................P. 0. Box 7, Dos Palos

CLUBHOUSE S

BERKELEY
~~~ ¥f.rNi ~51) ...4···········--························--····--·--······--·······1947 TiBln Rd., Oakland 2

R p W
e en ~ 1) .......................................................... 170 Ardmore Rd., Berkeley
Walter ~r (4 ~> -·-·····-·-··---·····-··-·--315 Montgomery St., San F~o 4
R
ll C He 9 (34 ) ................................................................ P.O. Box 1702, Richmond
c:iB.
~tm(!) (336) ...........................................................560-57th St.. Oakland 9
An
S ffulde 564 ··)·······----·····--········--··----····----·-................ 1419 Broadway, Oakland 12
·Otwell n(}&,81 ................... ·--~-·---·-·-··-·.330 Russ Bldg .. San Francisco 4
Ra La~ hr ( ) ) .................................................................. 759 Creston Rd., Berkeley
Y
g ey 349 ..............................................................727 Mountain Blvd., Oakland

M

Ge::'c

~

BOARD OF CONTROL

MASONIC

BERKELEY CLUBHOUSE
2590 Bancroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Esther Mainwaring, Hostess

LOS ANGELES
~ ~urgs Smith, Chairman (618).-...................................211 N. Elm Dr., Beverly Hills
CY& ·Jboemaker, Vice-Chairman (566) ................ 117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14

J~h Ale rane, Sec.-Treas. (528) ................................. .440 N. Palm Dr., Beverly Hills
·Ed
EiJn
C~ulst ~445) ..- ........................................61 8 S. Western Ave., Los Angeles 5
·
ke (6 7) ....- .........................................

.. 1017 Centinela Blvd Santa Monica
M win W. Wade (504) ..............................................4155 Greenbrier Rd:: Long Beach 8
Jo~on A. Duncan (327) .............................................. 1505 Armando Dr., Long Beach 7
M. Askin (278) ........................................................833 S. Wall St Los Angeles 14
HTd M. Wilson (677) ............................................357 N. Crescent Or., Beverly Hills
F:.uJ.rt H. Cooper J614) •.- ........·--·--·--·--...... 19S4 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25
Geo H. Reinsch ( 77) ................................................ 1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
rge E. Hall (528) ................................................... .409 N. Camden Dr., Beverly Hills

ti

MASONIC

HOMES

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES

LOS ANGELES CLUBHOUSE

Chas. M. Wollenberg, Pres. (344) ............................2070 Pacillc Ave., San Francisco 9
Myron E. Smith, Vice~Pres. (394) ................................617 W. 17th St., Los Angeles 17
Charles Albert Adams (166) ........................................Monadnock Bldg., San Frand&co S
Ralph H. Head (352) .......................... P.O. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Arthur M. Warren (481) ....................................................3060-16th St., San Francisco 3
Guy_B. Mize (368) ......................................................609 S. Grand Ave., Los Angeles 17
L. Harold Anderson (346) ................................................245 Market St.. San Francisco 6
Leo E. Andet30n (355) •. ·--·-·----··-..700 General Petroleum Bldg., Los Angeles 17
Phil N. Myers......................................... .......................3030 West Sixth St., Los Angeles 5

10886 LeConte Ave., Los Angeles 24
Mrs. Paith C. Sheldon. Director of Activities

MASONIC HOME FOR THE AGED
Decato, California
Telephone Decoto ~7434
James R. Eubanks, Superintendent

MASONIC HOME FOR CffiLDREN
20336 E. Badillo St., Covina, California
Telephone Fleetwood ~3138
Robert M. Henry, Superlntendent

445

REGISTRAT ION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodi•

No. of Lod1c

Repreaentatlva

447

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

446

Mila1e Allowed

California -··-·····-·-···--No. 1....Joseph M. Pahls, Master
Paul Cowgill, Senior Warden
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P.M. fj Inspector
Jared M. Cody, Past Master
James Hurst. Past Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Past Master
Howard M. McKrnley.Jr.. Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
Charles C. Trowbridge. Jr., Past Ma!fter
Ralph G. Wadsworth, Past Master
· Wutem Star ·-·--·-No. 2....Raymond A. Jackson, Representative............ $ 30.92
Tehama ·--····---·········-·- No. 3..-Harold C. Schroder, Master............................ 7.64
Elden B. Crews, Senior Warden
John J. O'Connor, Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, P .M. and Inspector...... 1.64
G. C. McKinley, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia - - · · - - · · · N o . 5..-Guy S. Fairhurst. Master.....-......................... 3.10
Gary H. Conlin, Past Master
Tuolumne ..-.---··---...-...No. 8..-William H. Spargo, Senior Warden.............. 10.76
Charles C. Hale, Past Master
Corinthian
.-No. 9.. ..Raymond L. Rusk, Master.._.......................... 10.60
Donald J. Doty, Senior Warden
James W. Robinson, P.M. and Inspector.... 10.60
George W. Williams, Past Master
·
San Jose-··· • ,.,_....No.10....Frederick L. Brown, Master-------·-·····-··" 4.12
Chester F. Van Hom, Senior Warden
Oliver K. Morton. Junior Warden
George E. Biggs, Past Master
Joseph S. Greenley, Past Master
Yount --·--···-·-·--··· No.12.. _Robert Hamilton. Muter--··-··-..-..-.......... 3.12
Cornelius Kernan. Senior Warden
Rkhard W. Oark, Junior Warden
Ben C. Corlett, Past Master
George 0. Potter, Past Master
Nevada
_ _No.13-J. F. Siegfried, Muter-·---··-·..--······-···· 25.08
Joseph F. Stenger, Past Master
Temple --···-··--·-··-N o. H ....Percy E. Stokes. Muter--··········· ······..··-· 3.70
Wilson W. Emery, Senior Warden
·
Theodore L. Picco, Peat Master
Eureka -----····---·-N o. 16-..Dave Fred Gerhart, Master............................ 10.72
Denton Orr Randall, Senior Warden
Burrell Clitford Juli, P.M. and lmpector...... 10.72
La Parfalte Union..............No. 17....Alfred P. Baylacq, Master
Roger A. Fourcade, Senior Warden
Raphael Chabaury, Junior Warden
Andre L. Annand, Past Master fj Inspector
Brewster F. Ames, Past Master
Edouard J. Lagarde, Past Master
Felix Lassalle, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfanti, Past Master
Jules Ramond, Past Master
James F. Smith, Past Master
Mountain Shade _...No.18-Go rdoo E. Tucker, Muter...-·-·--..··- 37.20
San Joaquin ····-·········-No. 19....Clarence A. Wood, Junior Warden........_.... 7.22
J. Frank McOory, Grand Pursulvant....--···· 7.22
John H. Southwell, Past Master

Name of Lodse

No of Lod1e

Reprcaentativea

Milea1e Allowed

Washington ....;___········--NO. 20....Danlel M. Cameron, Master--·-··-·················· 7.64
Henning J. Lueders, Senior Warden
Herold N. Richards, Past Master
William L. Lewis, Past Master
Hawaiian --····-···-···--No. 21....Rol:!ert W. Millar, Senior Warden....... _..... 350.90
O~cidental ...............-...No. 22....Carl E. Peterson, °Jr.• Master
Robert A. W ertch, Senior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., P.M. & Inspector
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
Hiram D. Blanchard, Past Master
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Archibald J. Cloud, Past Master
Lyle E. Patton, Past Master
Madison .........·--····......-~..No. 23....Eric A. Schl.ndhelm. Senior Warden.............. 24.62
~ L. Jones, Past Grand Master..........
25.08
d Farley, P.M. and lmpector............ 24.62
Walter J. Wieger, Past Master
Mariposa _ ........................No. 24....lra C. Bloom, Master..·-·····-···········-····:.. 26.32
Donald S. Hixson, Senior Warden
James P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown ......................-No. 25....Carl J. Forsberg, Muter................................ 12.32
El Dorado - ..······--··-····No. 26__Cbarles L. Buckley, Master
Jacob (Jack) Feth, Senior War~-;,,····· ..-·····- 12.22
Clarence F. Hops, Junior Warden
Trinity - -······-·-·-·-···-N o. 27_Charles G. Meyers, Master.............-............. 34.92
Arthur Paulsen, Past Grand Master............ 34.92
Golden Gate ···-···-···---No. 30....William B. Bellamy, Master
George Washington, Senior Warden
Albert W. Crumpton, Junior Warden
Harry K. Widup, P.M. and Inspector
Raymond H. Bradley, Past Master
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
Howard J. Smith, Past Master
Gold Hill ·---'""--No . 32....Douglas B. Spence, Muter.·---······ ---··· 10.06
Ophir ___;_._____-.No. 33_Matt McNamara, Repreaeotatlve...-............ 10.02
San Diego...............- ..- ..-No. 35....R=~ B. James, Senior Warden.................. 60.84

kiauric~ 1i.tR':: J:!~~ ~t5teward...... 60.84

Geor~ W. Bider, Past Master

Fred E. Lawrence, Past Master
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master
Fred J. H. Rickon, Past Master
Joe L. Shell, Past Master........................ 60.84
Howard - ..-No. 37_Floyd I. Bums, Senior W ardm.._.
40.34
George S. Ward, P.M. and
40.34
Santa Cruz ·············-····-·-No . 38__Frank E. Lindley, Senior W--~6·50
Thomas~eynold, Junior W................
650
~!.fu R. H:if.PP~t

lnapecto;:::::=:::::

t!:;ctOI"·--··········-

Albert S. Hoke, Past Master
Roy L. Mayfleld, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master
Sacramento ··················'--·No• 40..-Jobn Sfdney Vining Master
Frank . Sdioenbachier, Seni~;w-;d;;~··· ..·Malcolm Hiram Graham, Junior Warden
Darrell R. Purcell, Past Master
Harry Murdock Baker, Past Master

7 6A
· ...

448
Name of Lodp

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loclsc

Rcpr...,ntati-

Naac of Loclce

Marti.nu ________ No.4l_P. B. Williamson, Master.·-·····-············-·······
R. A. Stoffels, Senior Warden
'
Wakefield Taylor, Past Master..·-············-···
Howard Dewey Lyford. Past Master
B. P. Schleifer, Past Master
Loa Angeles ··--············-··No• 42..-James Cope, Master..........................................
Irvmg Dubin, Senior Warden
Matthew M. Codon, Past Master..................
William Robusch, Past Master
Hiram --··-············-····-No. 43.-Jack M. Smith, Master-··-··········-···· .....-.......
Mount Moriah .................._No. 44.. _0tto A. Gramlow, Master
William T. Tillson, Senior Warden
David F. Morris, Junior Warden
Jack W. Leishman, P.M. and Inspector
Adolp Eberhart, Past Master
Karl F. Holzmuller. Past Master
Edwin E. Keough, Past Master
Irwin J. Robertson, Past Master
Crescent ·--····--···-·····-No. 45.. _Lynn F. Tracy, Master..................................
·
Samuel F. Finley, Past Master
Texas ·-··--··----·-..No• 46.. _Verayne D. Cole, Senior Warden..................
William F. Gillett. Junior Warden
Forbestowll -··---···-No. 50_Charles Zirion, Senior Warden....................
Illinoistown ····-·······•..- ......No. 51 ....John Ernest Sears, Past Master & Rep.........
Suisun --··-·--······-·········-No. 55.. _R. Glenn Hollar, P.M. & Inspector & Rep.....
L. J. Hayes, Past Master
Volcano ····---········-·-..No. 56_-Alfred R. Milton, Senior Warden................
Santa Roaa -····-····---No. 57.. _Glendall W. McDermott. Master..................
Charles F. Minettl, Senior Warden
Howard W. Moen, Junior Warden
Charles C. Warren, P.M. and Inspector......
Shirley K. McMullin, Past Master
Rober! A. Miller, Past Master
Union ··-·······---·-···-···--..No. 58....

No. of Lod11e

RcpreMDtatiYU

Mlleate Allowed

~i~:;1J f L1!:~c~~~~:::......................

J. George Harbinson, Senior Warden
teigh R. Pierce, Junior Warden
Otto F. Link, P.M. and Inspector..................
J.P. Bascom, Past Master
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range ··-··--········No. 59....Clarence B. Wrl..,9ht. Muter..·-···-··----······--··
Willard V. Van Doren. Past Master
Plumas ----··-·---·No. 60....Robert Bruce Myers, Master..........................
Orval A. Myers, P.M. & Inspector....._.......
Leon L. Clough, Past Master
Marion Bruce Myers, Past Master
Live Oak ··-···-·-····--·No. 61....Henry William Gutte, Jr., Senior Warden
Laurence E. Dayton, Past Master
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
Natoma --·-·-·············----No· 64....Elton L. Davis, Senior Warden....................
Amador --··-__..No. 65....William Morrow, Senior Warden..................
Forest ···--·········-·--····No. 66.... Not Represented
Morning Star ······-·······-···No. 68.... Robert W. Schaeneman, Master....................
Thurman R. Jackson, Junior Warden
Stanley H. Wentz, P.M. and lmpector......
Alvin V. Abbott, Past Master
George H. Buttrick, Past Master
Enterprue -··-···---···No•.70-Leon M. West, Master-··---·····--···-····
Paul Deeds, Senior Warden
Hugh D. Moncur, Put Muter

2.98

2.98
51.10
51.10
12.52

7.36

26.56
23.14
4.24
10.42
4.40
4.40

7.64
7.64
28.72
30.14
30.14

9.32
10.22
7.22

7.22
10.60

Mi1-el Allowed

Bear Mountain --·-··---No. 76-Frank H. Wallace, Repreaentative.........._. 10.44
Calaveras ··-------...No. 78_Carl 0. Persall, Senior Warden.·-····-········· 9.76
Humboldt ------No. 79._James W. Henderson, Senior Warden........-. li.92
I
ll:dward M. Davis, Past Master
one -----·--···-No. 80....RWold P. Mace, Senior Warden..-........... 10.68
y
esley Sibole, P.M. and Impecror............ 10.68
o1o ·--··-··-···--·---.No. 81 __ . liarold Braden, Master................................ 7.82
Vesper ········-····-·-·-.:.........No. 84...Lloyd F. Fritzell, Senior Warden................ 27.94
N val
Lester Totten, P.M. and lmpector................ 27.94
a
·····--······-·-·······-No. 87....John K. Cothran, Master.................................. 2.81
Bertrand Wichels, Senior Warden
Harry E. Newcomb, Junior Warden
ph Anderson, Past Master
oseph Brouss, Past Master
est C. Fugler, Past Master
Osce 0. Jenkins, Past Master
Ralph A.. Neely, Past Master
Melvin C. Nelson, Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Pa.st Master
Rose's Bar -·-··-··--·--.No. 89..-Thomas Scogland, Master.............................. 12.60
North Star -·--·--·-····..No• 91.._Francis E. Farley, Muter---·····-········· 42.72
Burton E. Booth, Senior Warden
St. Helena ··--···--······No. 93..-Lowell Palmer, Master.................................... 5.50
Howard K. Cole, Past Master
Edwin L. Paulson, Past Master
Henry Oay -··-···--······-No. 95....John B. Allen. Junior Warden...·-·····-············ 9.94
Hornitos -·----···-·-No· 98.. _Wilson E. Lathrop, P.M. & Inspector..-...... 22.86
Ymemite -·-···--··-···No. 99.•.•Kenneth Robert Mcswain, Senior Warden.. 22.86
William Westley Bartlett. Junior Warden
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master__·-·-···· 7.64
C1a y
No. lOl_H. W. Haberkorn. P.M. & Representative
Oroville -·-··-··-·-·-No.103....Clayton Wellington D'Arcy, Master..·-··--· 23.76
Gecirge Colboume Fraser, Senior Warden
•
Sewell King Parker, Peat Master
Lezington ·--··-·-···-······No.104.. _James E. Parker, Master---·--········-····· 51.10
·
LaMar L. Hill, Senior Warden
William H. Baker, Past Ma*1'
Arcata ···········-············-.No. 106....Gerald Justin Hagelskamp, Senior Warden.. li.92
J~es Edwin Morton, Jr.. Past Master
PaJaro ··-···-··-········-·-·...No. 110....W~e~H~o!~~·s~i:w~d~····-··········· 8.48
Thorn.ton C. Thorpe, Junior Warden
Andrew F. Edwards, Past Master
Harold R. Hwbeck, Past Master
W. M. Strobn, Put Muter
No. 111....T. W. Moore, Mum
25 42
Qlco · · · - · - W. Floyd Edwards, Seaior Warden ··--··..
·
John McCowan, Junior Warden
William C. Brouillard, P.M. 6 lnspector...... 25.42
Summit ·-·-··--···-··--No.112-~homas H. Prowse, P.M. 6 Rep................... 10.46
Eden -·····-···-··········-..No. 113.... Park M. Hyde, Master
Elmer E. Ross, Senior Warden
Lorin E. Engblom. Junior Warden
Morrison B. Currey! Past Master
Harry Reite, Past Master
Concord·-· ·-----~ 117..J?loydH A..FLaScffhertyul, Master.....-....................... 7.6i
erman •
tze, Senior Warden
James M. McCluskey, Junior Warden
Martin C. Davis, Past Master

J·

~

39.36

449

450
Name of Lod1e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

No. of Lod1e

Fidelity --········ -·---No . 120•••. Max Rudorfer, Master
Albert Farber, Senior Warden
Robert A. Klinger, Junior Warden
Milton D. Sapiro, Grand Orator
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Reuben E. Gilbert, Past Master
Robert J. Himmelstern, Past Master
Abraham Jacobs, Past Master
Merton A. Jacobs, Past Master
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Edgar C. Levey, Past Master
Henry Levy, Past Master
Mark H. Nusbaum, Past Master
Robert S. Peiser, Past Master
Harold S. Simon. Past Master
Cyril L. W ~eks, Past Muter
Alemo-····----~--No.122.._Clarence W. Ellsworth, Master.·-· ···-····-····
·
William E. Connelly, Senior Warden
P.A. Slingsby, Junior Warden
Paul F. Ruff, Past Master and Inspector.......•
Ralph M. Hinds, Past Master
J. B. Near, Past Master
0. J. Wahlgemuth, Past Master
Sotoyome ••........••..•.......••••No. 123....Not Represented
Table Mountain ·-·--···No .12i-Har old J. Rogers. Jr., Muter....••.... _.............•
Lloyd P. Cornell, Past Master
LaFayette -·-··-····· ·-No. 126•...Elmer B. Garrison, l'daster•.·-··-··-···············
William K. Heathome, Senior Warden
William C. Heatly, Past Master
Henry L. Si.rlgmaster, Past Master
Hermann ---··-·· No.12 7.... Arthur Parker, Master
John Behrens, Past Master and Inspector
Oscar P. Bachmann, Past Master
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
Alfred Floet", Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Henry Harde, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
George Mammen, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
Wilhelm Schumacher, Past Master
Hugo H. W. Stamm, Past Master
.
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
Visalia -·----· ---No . 128.._Theodore F. Thompson, Master....................
Vernon F. Cruzen, Senior Warden
Bertrand L. Payton, Junior Warden
lames B. Lawson, P.M. and lnspecto r.-·Mitchell Lunstra, Past Master
Marvin O. Winings. Paat Master
Nicolaus -·--·---- ···-·No. 129_Rich ard F. Taresb, Maater....·-·-····-············Woodbrid ge _ _ _ _No. 131_0. H. Brouillard, Master....·-··-···-···············
C. Norman Adams. Junior Warden
Palmer A. Wells, P.M. and Inspector............
Sincerity ·······-·---·-···No• 132...•Ed. L. SpelllI!eyer, Senior Warden..............
Vacaville ·-··-··-- --No.13 i.. _Frands A. Jacobs, Junior Warden.........._ ...
Valley ---···---: ....No.1 35-Ralp h M. Foote, Asst. Grand Lecture r_
Jamea A. Drace, P.M. and Inspector...........•
Otto Dietrich, Represent ative_............_. __ _

Name of Locfse

1.70
1.70

26.92
5.10

31.22
31.22

10.60
8.Ji
8.Ji
31.64
5.08
8.12
8.12
8.12

No. of Lod1e

451
Milea1e Allowed

Pacific ·--····- ·---No . 136._Samuel C. Levin, Master
William M. Webster, Senior Warden
Fred A. Storek, Junior Warden
Albert A. Axelrod, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Crockett ··············- -··--..No.1 39.._Gordon Jensen, Senior Warden
Alvin Theodore Tobby, JWlior Warden
Ballard White, Jr., P.M. and Inspector........ 37.20
Zina R. Callaham, Past Master
William A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
James Low, Past Master
Frederick J. Mahr, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Richard E. Schreiber, Put Master
Ford J. Thornton, Past Master
Curtis ··-·-····-· ·--·--.No , 140.. ..Jesse F. Scott, Master......................................
7.06
Grafton ·····-···-···...:.·---~ 141._Ever ett E. Austin,
····-················· 8.02
Franklin --··---· ·-No• 143....Donald S. Heringer,Mattu.·--·
Senior Warden............ 8.94
Robert P. Heringer, Junior Warden
Ray E. Burdg, P .M. and Inspector....... -·-···
7.64
Edward T. Lyon, Past Master
Horace William Wllliams, Past Master
Oriental ····-····-··········-No. lii_Arth ur J. Swank, Master
Joseph W. Driskill, Senior Warden
Walter E. Sanner, Past Master and Inspector
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
Claude E. Fountain, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen. Past Master
Vitruvius ---··-·-- -No.14 5 ....Robert Borges, Master....-·-······-··· ·········-· 5.20
Eric Andersen, Senior Warden
Walter Buell, Junior Warden
Orrin Buell, Past Master
Abe11-- -·-y-·-·- ···-No. li6_Geor ge R. Dietterle, Senior Warden............
9.50
Elmer H. Hopper P.M. and Inspector..........
Eel River --···-··- ---No. li7.. _Clarence L. Batten, Senior Warden.............. 9.50
Lassen ··-····················---No, 149.... Medford M. Massotty, Senior Warden........ 33.40
36.66
Elmer G. Van Tassell, P.M. and Inspector.. 36.66
Molino ···········-··--··--No. 150....Clyde Henry Bryan, Senior Warden. ........... 26.98
Wooclland ··············-·····-No. 156.... Harry S. Freytag, Senior Warden...............
7.32
Keystone ············- --No.161 ....Natha n Huston. Master................•.....·-·········. 9.22
Harmony ·············-···--··-No· 164....Delvin T. Underwood. ..................................... 35.66
Excelsior --······-··- ·--NQ. 166.... Harry Frier Luttlcken, Senior Warden
Eugene Arthur Seber, Junior Warden
Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master
Leslie E. Alt, Past Master
John C. Bovey, Past Master
Joseph R. Edmiston, Past Master
Ralph Edwin Flathmann, Past Master
Walker Peddicord, Past Master
Alameda ..........._.............-No. 167...

%~~d p~l~r:=ter

_...- .....................
Karl Nordrik, Past Master
Redwood City ....•..........._No. 168....Kenneth L. Steiner, Muter..............................
Rudolph C. Holmquist, Jr., Senior Warden
Andrew L. Spinas, Junior Warden
Walter W. Hilton, Past Master
Mission -···---···--,-No. 169....Jean Mendribil, Master
A\lgust Krome, Senior Warden
Reginald Taverner, Junior Warden

2.84

2.24

452
Nam• of Lodac

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lod1e

!Upruentativea

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mlleaae Allond

Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
John C. Strickler, Past Master
Elk G rove ·-·····-············No• 17L.Ellis Lewis Maisch, Master.................·-········
Delbert Crede Sales, Senior Warden
James Edwin Andrews, Junior Warden
Drytown ·---······--···N o.174.. _Rolph Cadenhead, Senior Warden............... .
Antioch --··-·-----· No. 175_George H. Rebstock, Past Master
Phoenix ···-·····················No. 178 ..Raymond H. Seymour, Muter......................
·· H
P. Loy, Senior Warden
Lmfesty, Past Masttt
Guy W. Whelchel, Past Master
Mendocino ···-···········-·····•No.179....Alfred E. Budi, Senior Warden..................... .
P e talwn8 ·····-··-····-······ ·No. 180.-John Keller, Jr.. Junior Warden......................
Hiram Hopkins, Past Muter
Russi
Ri
No 181 Carroll C. Doane, P.M. & Inspector..............
an ver --···-··-· •
··-Fred Rockstroh, P.M. and Representative....
Arbuckle ······--·-·········· -No. 182.... Alfonzo Carrion, Master·-····-··- ··-·················
Oear Lake _________No.183 ....Rene Dupouy, Muter.---·-· ······-··········
William H. Weeks, Senior Warden
Clarence E. Corum. Past Master
George R. Michell, Past Master
Sierra Valley -·········-···-No. 184....D. W. Roberts, Representative......................
Claiborne ··--··-···-·--··- ·No. 185....Archer Richardson. Senior Warden. ............ .
Evening Star ----·-··--·-No . 186....N. F. Swickard, Senior Warden---···············
Erling H+ertager, Junior Warden
Keith .....;.............---··-·······No. 187....Delmar . Luckett, JSenlorWWarden.de .............
Herbert A. Broyles, unior
ar n
Oakland ............................No. 188....Burton R. Griswold, MaWster d
Artie M. Clark, Senior
ar en
William H. Agers, Junior Warden
Elmer F. Elsen, Past Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Rue W. Sims, Past Master
Northern Light ................No. 190....Lloyd G. Morris, Muter................................
Marin ---··-·--- -No. 191....Ernest H. McCa~ghan. Master
William Sea, Seruor Warden
Walter M. Young, Junior Warden
Joseph C. Meagor, Past Masttt
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Russell H. Warden, Past Master
Warren H. Williams, Past Master
·
.No 192....Eugene Ivor Jones, Master......................... .....
S anta Barhara ·················
'
Harold Urton Cook, Senior Warden
Valmond Keith Shannon, Junior Warden
Edward G. DodCst Master
Alfred William
·d, Past Master
No.193 ..-Jack Tipple, Senior Warden. .........................
F emda1e ··--··-···-···· -Ragghiariti, Master·-·-·······-··················
M ountain View ··········-··-No• 194....Arno
Melvin C. Rogers, Senior Warden
John S. Hawks, Junior Warden
John E. Neff, Past Master
James A. Sohler, Past Master
---'-No. 195....Milton Hoffe Sharp, P.M. & Inspector, Rep.
Buuu:;ye
··-Charles A. Elliott, Past Master
. eon
S an Sun
··-······-····--No. 196..-J. F. Fry, Maa~·-···-···-··---·····················
n T. Durant. Senior Wardea................•
WUmlng ton _.,....- - -.No.198_Alto
Charles R. BeaL Junior Warden
Thomas F. Mason, Past Muter....................

9.20
9.84
55.62

Ralar;f:

17.96
3.20

·HO
5.00
9.74
5.30

32.44
17.20
44.82

6.66

31.92

42.22

34.10
3.54

7.18

30.78
51.10
51.10

No. of Lodge

!Upreoentativea

453
Milea1e AU.,..ed

Hartley .....•- .................-No.199....Donald A. Hook, Senior Warden. .......- ........ 9.12
Guido De Ghetaldi, P.M. and Inspector....... . 11.00
Truckee ···-···-··--···········--··No. 200..-Thomas H. Lucas, Master.............................. 28.80
Robert S. Critchley, Senior Warden
Samuel H. Faulkner, Junior Warden
Silveyville .....................-No. 201-..James E. Morris, Senior Warden.................. 5.80
Patrick T. McCarthy, Junior Warden
Ralph Moss, Past Master
Rowland Moss, Past Master
John W. Tutt. Past Mum
Pentalpha ..........................No. 202....Fred A. Lofvendahl, Muter........._ ................ 51.10
Warner J. Norlander, Jr., Senior Warden
Julius L. Nelson, Junior Warden
Howard H. Arnold, Past Master
John M. Gordon. Past Master
Wm. R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master................ 51.10
Clarence W. Hull, Past Master
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
Earle Stevens, Past Master
Confidence ············--·---·-·-No. 203.... Gearge R. Harter, Senior Warden............... . 9.20
Fong Q. Jing, Past Master
Salinas ..............................No. 204....Jack T. Palmer, Master-····--·----·-··----···--··----·
9.74
Richard T. Peaslee, Senior Warden
Herbert P. Brown. Junior Warden
Olivet ·-····-.......................No. 205.... Not Represented
Stanislaus ..........................No. 206....Austin W. Julius, Senior Warden................ 8.76
Anaheim ........................- ..No. 207....Glenn M. Kirk, Maa~---··------··-----·--········--··-­ 53.50
Roy Luther, Senior Warden
Guy B. Daniels, Put Muter
Harvey E. Kirk, Past Master
Rio Vista --·······--·-···-··· -No. 208....Howard E. Anderson, Junior Warden..........
5.74
J. W. Hamilton, Jr., Past Master
King David's ....................No. 209....lloyd C. Stone, Senior Warden.................... 32.06
Johnnie Gaustad, Junior Warden
Friendship .......... t.............No. 210....Malvin Moore, Master..·-··--···----···--·-·············· 4.12
Russell L. Batten, Senior Warden
Forrest Von Dorsten, Junior Warden
John F. Knight, P.M. & Inspl!Clxlr................. . 4.12
Lawrence A. Campbell, Past Master
Robert L. Norton. Past Master
Percy H. Thompson, Past Master
Morris Thush, Past Master
San Benito ....................... .No. 211.._Donald W. Casten, Senior Warden............. . 7.66
Herman A. Hermansen, Past Master
A. W. Hinz, Past Master
South San Frandsco........No. 212_William J. Bozios, Master
Ge0rge J. Anderson, Senior Warden
Norman C. Crosby, Junior Warden
Henry T. C-onserva. Past Master
Cyrus H. Kramer, Past Master
Henry A. Kruger, Past Master
George A. Lasteln, Past Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Past Master
San Buenaventura .......... _No. 214....Gearge C. Etter, Master.........------·········-···-·-··· 44.60
George N. Fitch, Senior Warden
Walter R. Wilson. Junior Warden
Oak Grove ........................No. 215.... Geor11e S. Mutch, Master
Fred J. Benson. Senior Warden
Alex A. Lind, Junior Warden
Otto H. Fischer, Past Master
William Nankervis, Jr.. P. M. & Inspector

454
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repretentativa

Mileage All.,_d

Doric ··-········-········--····No. 216....Cedl Rand, Senior WWardedn
Donald Black, Junior ar en
Ira W. Coburn. Grand Marshal
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past Master
Monterey ··············--··--No. 217....Earl G. Wright, Senior Warden..................
Niles B. Bentley, Master.·-·············-·..············
Mosaic ····-············-~······· No. 218····Robert
J. Livermore, Senior Warden
Speranza Italiana ............No. 219.... Nino Cerruti, Master
John M. Icardo, P. M. & Inspector
John Isola, Past Master
Downey ........................._No. 220....Claudls Thomas Shirley, Master.......... ·-·····
Harry Millers, Senior Warden
Henry P. Lawhorn, P. M. & Inspector....... .
Inyo ··-······························No. 221 ....Martln W. Nillus, Senior Warden............... .
Roseville ······-··········----No. 222....Grover C. Starkey, Past Master....................
Bakersfield ··-···············:....No.224....

455

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'I'HE

10.46
4.12

51.10
51.10
48.70
9.20

~~dr~!~;z~.RM:t:~~~~:~
...................... . 36.70
J. Clifton Carpenter,

Senior Warden
Samuel J. Kliewer, Junior Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master............ 36.70
Albert E. Burton, Past Master
Henry Elssler, Past Master
William M. McKenney, Past Master
Leonard C. Smith, Past Master
Brooklyn ····-·······-···-·····No. 225....Robert E. Fites, Master
Roy S. Lenthall, P. M. & Inspector
Roy F. Anderson, Past Master
Ian A. Bremner, Past Master
George .E. Home, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo ..................•....•No. 226.... Arthur W.KinJohnsonJ • SMa:iterW d
Boswell F.
g, r., eruor ar en
Robert G. Trulock, Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith, P. M. & Inspector
G. Howard Cardiff, Past Master
J. R. Eubanks, Past Master
Donald Hanson, Master.................................. 6.50
Ath ens ······················-···-·No' 228····Thomas
Wright, Senior Warden
Trygve Pettersen, Junior Warden
Gus A. Haussler, Past Master
Robert O. Gloeckner, Master.......................... 2.84
Solano ··-·······-····-·-·-···No• 229 ···Clarence
E. Shoaf, Senior Warden
Willlmn B. Heller, Junior Warden
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Henry A. Mini, Jr.. Past Master
Edwin B. Pierce, Jr.. Past Master
Hoyt Porter, Senior Warden.................... 12.14
N orth Butte ······-"····---No. 230...E.
Clare B. Campbell, Assist. Grand Lecturer 12.14
Covelo ··-··-············-·-·.,No. 231....Leo A. Moore, Senior Warden. ................... 14.94
No. 232..-Ffoyd H. Gill, Master...................................... 35.98
JanesVille -··-····················
James E. Young, Senior Warden
Elmer A. Kellogg, Junior Warden
•·t
No. 233....Lawrence A. Tibbetts, Master........................ 6.36
Cal"'oga
···················•·····•
Harold R. Reeder, Senior Warden
Hope --···--········'..........No. 234....Vernon L. Sanders, Senior Warden........... . 32.72
Surprise Valley ...............•No. 235 __Walter T. Rodman, Representative............. . 42.68
Hills Ferry ·····-············-.-Np. 236...Lyle G. Schuman, WSeniord Warden.............-. 9.32
Ira Burdett, Junior ar en
William S. Thompson, P. M. & Inspector.... 9.32

Name of l.odge

No. nf Lod11e

Repreaentativa

Mllea11t Allowed

Guadalupe ...........•.•....••_No.237._Joe O. Elliott, Master•...•.........-......................
'Thomas G. Cocking, Senior Warden
C. D. Cordash, Past Master
Henry R. Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colu,,a ····-···-········----No. 240....Mlllard H. Totman, Master............................
Santa Ana ····················--No. 241....Miner E. Whitford, Muter.......·-··················
Roy S. Wheeler, Senior Warden
Augustus H. Allen, Past Muter....................
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Magnolia --············-······-No• 242....Floyd M. Shook, Mast«r--······-·--···········
R. Wayne-Milton, Senior Warden
Gharles R. West, Junior Warden
Ralph C. Hine, Past Master
Eucalyptus ···············-·······No. 243....Charles H. Welsh, Master
·
Jess G. Grimsley, Senior Warden
W. Teubert Smith, Junior Warden
Walter F. Flierl, Past Master
Max C. Pame, Past Master
AnthonyP. Taylor, Past Master
Arthur Woodruff, Past Master
Alcatraz ···················-·-..No. 244.... Harold B. Lindblad, Master
George W. Crapo, J·r., Junior Warden
Lowell K. Bain, Past Master
Vern J. Coley, Past Master
Arthur H. Gawne, Past Master

~~l~ ~~· ~~VJ:den.

34.16

11.42
53.50
53.50
42.22

Laurel ··--····-···--·-······-·No. 245....
............. _ 23.64
Pomona ...................••.•. _••No. 246....Leonard A. Holk, Master--······················· 54.08
Alvin H. Goss, Senior Warden
Melvin E. Rice, Junior Warden
Fresno ............._;..___,... ___ No. 247....William C. Sheppard, Master........................ 27.52
John L. Stewart, Jr., Junior Warden
Dan B. Hurlbut, Past Master
Harry F. White, Past Master
Alturas •..:......•................-.No. 248....Alexander B. Pedersen. Representative........ .f 1.28
Jay Novlack, P.M. & Inspector...................... 41.28
Adln ···-·····························No. 250....Willlam D. Durkee. Senior Warden.............. 40.36
Landmark ·····················--·No• 253.._Paul Stephens, Jr., Master.·--···-···············-- 8.12
John S. Liefer, Senior Warden
Harmon R. Taber, Junior Warden
Reading ···········-----No. 254.._Dr. Wayland Wheeler, Muter_············-··- 30.92
Raymond L. Scheer, Senior Warden
Albert A. Brycesoo, Past Master
Russell De Forest, Put Master
.
.
Albert F. Rosa, Past Muter..................·-······· 30.92
Welcome ··················-·-···No. 255...Reg!na:ld Billingsley, Senior Warden............ 31.20
Shelby P. Passley, Junior Warden
J. RaJ2h Dawdy, P. M. 5 Inspector............ 31.20
Lodi ··-····-·-·-; __ .;..._No. 256....Max E. Elson, Senior Warden...................... 7.64
Richard D. McClure, Past Master
T. Glenn Wright, Past Master
Penrhyn ············-·····••ft•--No. 258...Robert K. Schlundt, Muter.-........................ 10.06
Evergreen ··--·······---·-No. 259....Willard H. Winder, Muter.......................... 56.04
Byron C. Morton, Senior Warden................ 56.04
Willard G. Babcock, P. M. & lmpector........ 56.04
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master,.• ____,._ 56.04
King Solomon's ··-·········-·No. 260....Thomas Wayne Chinn, Master
..
Richard B. Elchendorff, Senior Warden
William Henry White, Junior Warden
Henry E. Bennett, Jr., Past Master

457

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

456

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
Name of Lodtie
No. of Lodp

llepreN11tatiwa

Gilbert A. Benoit, Pa:st Master
Wayne C. Casteel. Past Master
Lottls Clocli, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean, Jr., Past Master
Ghester E. Lonkey, Past Master
Ulysses G. Patropulos, Past Master
Albert 0. Rier, Past Master
.
Roland E. Saracco, Put MaBter
Tuacan -··-·-·--··-···-·-..No. 261....Reg. M. Oieney, Master........................ ·-····· 10.72
Lompoc _______••.No. 262....Robert D. Speers, Master................................ 37.26
Carl B. Kappler, Senior Warden
Gordon Davis, Junior Warden
Hesperian ··········-·······--··No. 264....Donald E. Thomas, Senior Warden .............. 34.86
Harry V. Jewett, Junior Warden
Henry Drashner, P. M. & Inspector.............. 34.86
Orland ····-·-·-···-····--·No. 265...Leo Gobel, Senior Warden....................·-····· 25.10
North East ··-··-··-··-·--·No. 266••..Roy Millsap, Senior Warden......................._. 44.26
Henry Kober, Past Master
Galt --·-··-··-····--·No. 267._Glenn W. Ingram, Senior Warden................ 7.64
Durant -·······-·····--·········No. 268.._Harotd D. Givens, Master
Oliver J. Brown, Senior Warden
Byron B. Bolflng, Junior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P. M. & Inspector
Gus A. Briesche, Past Master
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
Oharles R. Ratkovich, Past Master
Olive Branch --·····-·-··-No· 269....Elmer G. Shipley, Master.............................. 31.32
Edwin T. Nagel, Senior Warden
Snow Mountain ................No. 271....Not Represented
Pasadena ··-··-·········-···No. 272....Roy R. Jordan, Master.................................... 52.20
Donald L. Butterfield. Senior Warden
William R. Van Houten. Junior Warden
Ralph T. M~am, Senior Grand Deacon. ... 52.20
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master
Lee C. Reed, Past Master
Anchor -···-···-···········-···-No. 273....B. Ray Mooney, Senior Warden. ................. 51.10
George Evans, Past Master ·
W. R. Mayo, Jr., Past Master
Theo. Newtson, Past Master
Ralph K. Pierson. Put Master....,............... 51.10
Arroyo -·-···············-····-No. 274....Robert B. Yager, Master·-·······---····-····· 33.16
George M. Ringland, Junior Warden
Clarence Truesdale, Past Master
Oakdale -·····--····-····-···No. 275....Kenneth F. Lindsley, Senior Warden........... . 9.26
Claiborn Schonhoff, P. M. & Inspector....... . 9.26
277....Floyd Anderson, Master
Selma
James Evans, Senior Warden
Irwin R. Eflro, Junior Warden
Sidney L. Cruff, Grand Standard Bearer.... 28.94
Southem California ...... _No. 278....Elven R. Davis, Master.................................. 51.10
Theodore E. Brawn, Senior Warden
William J. Cook, Junior Warden
Harold E. McComas, Past Master
Hanford
279__E. T. Watkins, Senior Warden...................... 30.50
E. H. Linville, Past Master
Madera ---·-···--No. 280....Tam M. Wilson, Senior Warden.................. 25.82
Tom H. Robertson, Junior Warden
Mt. Sham ---·-··-·No. 281.._Jmeph R. Hornbeck, Master.......................... 29.92
William C. Gover, P. M. & Inspector............ 29.92

---·-·-·--.No·

.---···---...No.

Callayomi

No. of Lod11t

llepruentatlvee

Mllcqo Ano-d

-·---·-··--·No. 282....Bert
Dwight James Raver, Master..·-········--·--··
Yewell, Past Master

South Weat ·-·-·-···-···-·No. 283....Elwyn W. ~hompson, Senior Warden........
Bliss Ward Keyes, Jr., Junior Warden
Robert H. Beetlestone, Past Master
Charles R. Costello, Jr., Past Master
San Miguel ····-··-·····--..No. 285....0rln Compton, P.M. & Inspector & Rep.......
Paso Robles --····-·····--No. 286....Robert L. Marshall, Senior Warden......·-·····
Herman L. Anderson, Past Master
Winnedumah ···----..No. 287....Paul M. Price, Senior Warden............·-······
Finis N. Roberts, Past Master
Maxwell ····-···-····--·---No. 288....lrwin Dages, Junior Warden..-·-··-······-··Leland E. Wallace, P. M. & Inspect.or........
Elsinore ···········-----·No· 289.. _John L. Burke, Senior Warden............•..--···
East Gate ··············--·--·"No. 290.._J. Walter Sprouse, Master..............................
Curtis C. Orrell, Senior Wanle:n
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master.c..............
John A. Cr<>Wy, Past Master
Frank S. Moore, Past Master
Emlyn W. Reese, Past Master
Santa Paula ····-····--·-·No. 291-.Robert A. Stetler, Master---·-···-············William R. Kenney, Senior Warden
George I. Wilde, Junior Warden
Loe Gatos ..........._ ......-No. 292....0rrin Emery Matheny, Master........._..........
Raymond J. Fisher,. Senior Warden
Loren Alton Lloyd, P. M. & Inspector........
Fred Berryman, Past Master
Orange Grove ...... _ .........No. 293.. _William E. Bouck, Master.---·-····--·······--··
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master........
John S. Lamper, Past Master
Traver ---·--··-·--·-·No. 294....Glenn N. Kolander, Junior Warden..............
Clare R. Nelson, Past Master
Mt. Jackson ··--·······-No• 295....George H. Sproul, Senior Warden................
Silver Gate ·······~··---No. 296....0akley D. North, Master--·----············
&nest M. Newton, Senior Warden
Raymond W. Tombaugh, Junior Warden
Warren W. Fitc·h, Past Master
Dunsmuir ····--·····-·----No. 297....Regis F. Jones, Senior Warden......................
Liberty --···-·-··--·-No• 299_Herbert Arnold Loynes, Master....................
Charles Burnard Weast, Senior Warden
Clyde Emory Davis, Junior Warden
Redlands -·-····---··--No. 300....Harry G. Wilson, Junior Warden..................
Ontario ·-···············-··.& 301._James W. Davidson, Senior Warden............
Robert C. Jensen, Junior Wanlen
Santa Lucia ···-····--········No. 302....Paul S. Baughan, Sr., Master....·-·-····-·····-·
Porterville ····-···-········--.No. 303_~~E.ir&,~:.of~W.:d;~·····-······-·
Reedley -···-········--··--No. 304....Gilhert F. Davis, Senior Warde'IL..........·-·····
Azua ··-···-·········---No. 305....Arthelle A. Ingram, Master--················-Ray R. Cooper, Senior Warden
George A. Garrett, Past Master
J. Arleigh Lee, Past Master
Ashlar ········-··-·-·--·--No. 306...•Charles H. Howard, Maater--········---··-·
L. M. Lookingbill, Senkir Warden
Robert W. Nicol, P. M. & Inspector............
Santa Monica ·-~·····-···-·No. 307....
~~~~~=e~~"\v~···-···

Woi:a

Harry H. Wl:lliams. Past Master

5.00
60.M

32.06
29.08
43.78
11.44
11.44
57.34
51.10
51.10

45.50
5.12
5.12
53.50
7.22
29.34
4.20
60.84

35.70
3.94
56.74
54.50
13.56
33.28
29.64
53.24

56.04
56.04
5t.to

458
Name of Lod1e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod1e

Repreaentativu

GRAND LODGE . OF CALIFORNIA
Milea1e AIJowcd

Monrovia · - - - -·--..No.308....Frank A. Wellington, Master...·-··-····- ····
Walfrld M. Setterlund, Senior Wanlen
Roy G. Haney, Junior Warden
H. Victor Clark, Past Master
Delano ··-······----.No. 3Q9_ •• Max H. Sears, Senior Warden....•....·- ·······Burley A. Todd, Junior Warden
.
Sisson ··-·- ·········-··--No.310..-Thomas H. Blankenship, Senior Warden....
Ralph N. Holden, Past Master
Los Banos ·--·--··-No. 312_..Not Represented
Tehachapi ...•._ _ _ _ No. 313._Henry H. Bartholomew, Master....................
Ralph W. First, Senior Warden
Temescal ····-···-"···-····--No. 31.f_J. Albert Chaney, Junior Warden..................
No. 315_George C. Taber, Master................................
Norwalk .........._
William E. Epperson. Junior Warden
William L. Galbraith, Past Master
J. W. Plains, Past Master
Sanger --------No. 316.. _Wayne E. Burk, Muter·-···--·················
Walter G. Barnhart, Senior Warden
Eldred Crutchfield, Junior Warden
John C. Rasmussen, Past Master
'Fallbrook - - - - - N o . 317....Cwl Philip Bauer, Representative................. .
Emmanuel ····-····---No. 318_Adrian R. M. Sears, Senior Warden............. .
HolleDbeck ···············-···--No. 319....E. Edward Claggett, Muter--···-·-·-·············
Robert G. Grant, Senior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, P. M. & Inspector................
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
Roy A. Wohlfarth, Past Maater
South Gate ··········-··········..No• 320..-He!!JY H. Fickel, Master............................... .
R. Dan Heard, Senior Warden
Roy H. Longshore, Past Master
EdWard J. Olsen, Past IM'aster
David H. Terry, Past Master
Alisa! -·····----...No. 321....Lewis E. Lawson, Muter--·- ··-··················
Stuart F. Brott, Semor Warden
Harold C. Hansen. Paat Master
_
Alhambra --·--····-······-No. 322....Joseph M. Yule, Muter....·-·-----·--···············
Bruce F. Wiker, Senior Warden
William H. Hodsdon, Junior Warden
Charles H. Ketridge, Past Master
Whittier ·--·---------·-······-No. 323....Benjamin F. Fahnestock, Master....................
Roscoe W. Farris, Seni<M" Warden
Clark P. Makho, Past Master
Clarence W. Peck, Past Master
Corona --- ,_.__ _No, 32·L.Alfred W; Talley, Mamr---·-··---·Willlam K Warden. Senior W81'den
Linn G. Roberts, Junior Warden
Gordon F. Porter, P. M. fj lmpector......._.•.
Walter S. Grayson, Past Master
Walton Talley, Past Master
David L. Warden. Past Master
Consuela ·········-···--No. 325_Tho.s. W. Eckford, Representative...........- ...
Needles ··--··---···-·--No. 326....Joseph F. McNeill, Senior Warden. .............
Carl C. Mikesell, P. M. & lnspecJtor.............•
Long Beach ..............••-No. 327_A. V. Hylton, Master......................................
J. Thomas Toner, Senior Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Assist. Grand Lecturer....
John H. FergUS011, P. M. & Inspector....... .
Robert B. Hawthome, Past Master
Herbert G. Polhill, Past Master
C. M. Stickney, Past Master

52.64

34.02
34.72
40.78
57.28
51.94

28.42

58.86
12.40
51.10
51.10
51.10

3.54
51.10

52.38

52.20
52.20

58.86
58.86
58.28
51.10
51.10
51.10

Name of Lodce

No. ol Lodae

Repreaentativu

459
Mileage Allowed

Redondo ···- · - ---- N o . 328._.William A. Boyes, Senior Ward.en. ...... _.____ 51.10
Glade L. CookuS. Junior Warden
George S. Fairbrother, Past Master
Leon G. Kelly, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master
Vallee de France.........._No. 329•._Lucien L. Laclotte, Junior Warden.............. 51.10
Charles A. Thomasset, P. M. & lmpector.... 51.10
Kilauea ---·············-~O, 330..-lames W. Steiner, Senior Warden................ 383.90
W. S. L. Loo, Grand Bible Bearer............ 383.90
p
aciflc Grove ············---No. 331....Clifford B. Johansen, Muter.·--·-·--··· to.60
Alvah Raymond Newsome, Seniw Warden
Hugh MacK.innen, Junior Warden
Arch Balchin, P. M. & Inspector................ 10.60
H. W. Buttle, Past Master
Edwin Arthur Cope, Past Master
San Pedro ·······- ·-···-----No.332.. -James Hendrix, Senior Warden.·-··- ··- -- 51.10
ohn Gorman, Junior Warden
ohn Ram&1y. P. M. & ~--······-······ 51.10
Charles V. H. Brashier, Past Master
Alta ···-··-·········-·---No.333....Walter B. Cain, Maattt-·-········-····-········· 38.90
Clifford W. Banta, Senior Warden
Covina ·····-···················--No. 334....J: ~· ~!:~~j~~~~-----·-·····-·········· 53.24

W. C. Goodman, Put Master
est Gate ····················---No. 335....Nate Adelaon. Master...........-......................... 51.10
·
Walter Robbins, Senior Warden
Al Golack, Past Master
John M. Hayden, Past Master
.
Max Lichtenstein, Past Master
Fruitvale ·······················--No. 336....Edward August Tuchsen, Master
Lachlan Simas Heath, Seni<M" Warden
Robert Desimone Rhien, Junior Warden
Frank R. Killinger, Jr., P. M. & Inspector
Paul Armond Brom, Past Master
Russell Carl Horstmann, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
Harold Oliver Sjoberg, Past Master
~quinez ·········-·····--No. 337....Gharles A. Gray, P.M. & Representative.... 2.56
n Jacinto -·············---No. 338.•_Clarence R. Cox, Senior Warden.................. 60.32
George A. Brown, P. M. & Representative
Fullerton ··········-···--·······..No. 339....Gordon W. Thompson, Maater........·-··········· 53.10
C. F. Burnett, Senior Warden
Ralph B. Pease, Junior Warden
William T. Rodger, P. M. & lmpector........ 53.10
William L. Currie, Past Master
Oxnard ···-······-·········--- ffo. 341....Louis H. Lipscomb, Master............................ 45.44
ohn H. Coultas, Senior Warden
ohn R. Seaton, Junior Warden
San Fernando ···········-··--NP. 343....Gerald E. Shelton, Maner--·--······················· 49.42
Theodore M. Schaeffer, Senior Warden
Starr King ......................-No. 344.... Manuel Stern, Senior Warden
C. M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Oiarles Becker, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
Daniel J. Breslauer, Past Master
Merrill N. Howe, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Charles 0 . Munson, Past Master
Halman L. Wayne, Past Masttt
Albert C. Wolleii>erg, Past Master
W

J

160
Name of Lod1e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

R.epraeotativa

161

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milup:Allowed

Brentwood --····-···········-·No. 345.._T, R. Craig, Senior Warden.......................... 5.32
Morris W. Bartee, Juuior Warde
Palo Alto ·········-··-·········No. 346....Ralph S. Brokaw, Master·-··························· 3.34
Raymond A. Howe, Senior Warden
Reginald H. Armstrong, Junior Warden
L. Harold Anderson, Senior Grand Warden
Robert N. Walker, P. M. & Inspector........ 3.54
Leonard R. A villa, Past Master
George E. King, Past Master
Adam B. Morten, Past Master
Herbert E. Simons, Past Master
McKinley ··········-···-·······-No. 347.._Floyd M. HUty, Master
Charles Baptie, Senior Warden
William E. Richmond, Junior Warden
Fred R. DeBarrows, Past Master
Isaac McGuflln. Past Master
Leon Michel, Past Master
John D. Williams, Past Master
San Bernardino .•..............No. 348....teo E. Cravens, Master.................................. 55.62
G. Maurice Cellar. Senior Warden
Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
Sequoia -··················-·····No. 349.-Frank D. Gatter, Jr., Master
Ralph W. York, Senior Warden
Merrill D. Cox, Junior Warden
Ernest A. Allen, Past Master Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
Alfred E. Hopkins, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
Lawrence E. Muntz, Past Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
Palestine ·-··-····---······.No. 351.._Richard C. Stockton, Master.......................... 51.10
Dorrance E. R'hoads, Senior Wa,rden
Verne J. Dapper, Past Muter
Henry E. Lestmann, Past Master
Sunaet ·······················-·······No. 352...~~6! J!:~Se'ni~~~~d;;;······················· 51.10
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
2.14
Pinole -·---··-·-····-No. 353....Howard C. Nicholson, Master........................
Tom W. Wilson, Senior Warden
0. Duane Hall, Junior Warden
Nigel B. McGillivray, Past Master
Presidio ···-···-·······--·······No. 354....George Jered Blodgett, Master
W rd
Frederick Wesley Keyworth, Senior a en
John Henry Hansen, Junior Warden
Joseph M. Ruggiero, P. M. & Inspector
Alexander L. Croce, Past Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master
H. Stanley Richard, Past Master
Robert A. Ritchie, Past Master
William D. Verbarg, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ·-·-·-··-···-·No. 355 .._Wallace H. Beaudry, Muter.......................... 51.10
Bert C. Breeze, Senior Warden
&win H. Gebhardt, Junior Warden
Leo E. Anderson, Junior Grand Warden.... 51.10
Samuel Steelman, P. M. & Inspector........ 51.10
John T. Bond. Past Master
Robert T. Gilmore, Jr.. Past Master
Ralph L. Logan, Past Master
Samuel A. Macdonald, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master

Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Repre1eotatlva

Mileaae Allowed

Mill Valley ·-··-········-··-.,No. 356....Melvin J. Schallock, Master
Howard A. Ronning, Senior Warden
Henry D. Lackewandt, Junior Warden
Kent 0. Seymour, P. M. & Inspector
Stanley C. Aitchison, Pas·t Master
Leon P. Van Atta, Past Master
Albert W. Miller, Past Master
Buena Park --·················-No. 357....R. J. Alvey, Senior Warden..·-·······················
Ted. R. Siems, P. M. & lnapector................
Golden State ...........•....•...No. 358__ Harry_A. McFrye, Master...·-···-·······-·········
Max T. Porter, Senior Warden
Winfield R. Cram, Past Master
Oharles Marsh Good, Past Master
William P. Kretschmer, Past Master
George W. Mann, Past Master
Loyalton ......•.....•..........•.,..No. 359.. _Donald G. Patton, Master...·-·-·-·················
San Francisco .............•..••No. 360.... Leland C. Daugherty, Master
Albert C. Thomason, Senior Warden
William C. Maxwell, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assist. Grand Secretary
Charles C. Brewer, Past Master
Alfred B. Edwards, Past Master
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
Walter A. Parker, Past Master
Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master
Port Bragg ·······-···············No. 361....Robert A. Hess, Senior Warden....................
Harry Burrows, P. M. & Inspector........... .
Charity .........•......•.....••......No. 362....Donald F. Hartman, fdaster........................... .
T. E. Schenk, Senior Warden
Ross K. Fuller, Junior Warden
T. A. Robinson, Past Master
Berkeley ··-·····--·~·-·-·········No. 363.... Freeman W. House, Master
Bert H. Wenk, Junior Warden
Wm. H. Adams, Past Ma.~ter
Robert P. Arnold, Past Master
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Willits ···-······················-·No. 365....

53.10

53.50

51.10

30.60

16.56
16.56
4.82

~.cF~~w"!::......................... 11.66

Las Palmas .................•.. _No. 366....T. E. Dispennette, Mastet'----·············-··· 27.52
Walter D. Randall, Junior Warden
T. D. Moyer, Past Master
Price Robinson, Past Master
South Pasadena ................No. 367....Francis L. Kirby, Senior Warden................. . 52.20
Robert L. Stockland, Junior Warden
Ralph W. Cutler, Past Master
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity ········'····-······· ..........No. 368.•..William E. S. Jarrett, Master... -.................. . 51.10
Carl 0. Craig, Senior Warden
C. Leland Jenkins, Past Master
Guy B. Mize, Past Master
Ocean Park _....................No. 369•...Pred C. Wallraff, Muter·-···········-············· 51.10
Hal A. Dumas, Senior Warden
'
M. Lee Medaris, Junior Warden
Dwight C. Freeman, P. M. 0 Inspector.... 51.10
William D. Tucker, Past Master

462
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod11e

Reprcacntativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milcaae All"""d

Amity -···················-No. 370.-.Lewb H. Johnson, Master
L. Robert Koenig, Senior Warden
William A. Cohendet, Junior Warden
Paul A. PHueger, Assist. Grand Treasurer
Maurice E. Coffey, P. M. & Inspector
J. Howard Davidson, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerich. Past Master
Ravmond M. Henry, Past Master
Rudolph F. Lange, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie.... No. 371._.Paul Stuart Schwartz, Senior Warden.......... 350.90
Alex D. Potts, Past Master............................ 350.90
J. Dustin Smith, Past Master
Gardena ·----··-·········----No. 372..-LeRoy W. Schlaegel, Mastdeer........................ 51.10
Carl L. Carlson, Senior War n
George Cunningham, Past Mast.e r
William W. Pitman, Past Master
Keith W . Schlaegel, Past Master................ 51.10
West Los Angeles............No. 373._.CJaude J. Himmeleln, Muter.......................... 51.10 •
Glen Archer, Senior Warden
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master
Dwight R. Watts, Past Master
Jewel ·························--··--No. 374....Robert W. Sinai, Master
Robert T. Parry, Senior Warden
Ralph R. Patterson, Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson, Grand ()rqanist
J. H. Adams, Past Master
A. R. Engel. Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
S. C. Leonhaeuser, Past Master
Emile Meyer, Past Master
Witlard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Richmond - ·-·-- ·-·····--·-··No. 375....Albert D. Elledge, Master
Fred E. Wisherop, Junior Warden
Walter Beigel. Past Master
Emil Bender, Past Master
John Bleg, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
Myrton Erickson, Past Master
James L. Halley, Past Master
A. T. Morris, Past Master
Harry Morris, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
Francis Drake ..................No. 376....John David Dean, Master W d
Emmons McClung, Senior ar en
Ointon Erwin Kenney, Junior Warden
·········- ·····-····-No. 377...~~~l~~~p. =·w;;d~~---··--·--·------·
Frank H. McClung, Past Master
Mizpah ...........................-No. 378....Joseph E. Stephens, SenWlor dWarden .......... _
Alvin W. Baker, Junior ar en
Charles W. Lunsford, P. M. & Inspector....
Fillmore ---·- ----······------No. 379..
~: lf~s~~~;d~···---·-·-----.......

Artesia -

-k>:ne:

John W . Ghaney, Junior Wacden
Herman J. Haase, Past Master
Lester A. Price, Past Master
Wm. Howard Price, Past Master

52.38
51.10
51.10
46.00

_,,;, . • .

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodee

Reprcaentativea

463
Mlleaae Allowad

Huntington Park ......,.._No, 380.... Paul A. Burtner, ~----····--·--················ 51.10
John C. McColister, Senior Warden
Clarence A. Holden, Junior Warden
Arthur C. Achey, Past Master
A. F. Lockett, Past Master
Oceanside --·-·-No..38l_John William Garey, Senior Warden............ 57.66
Clinton B. Call, Junior Warden
Kenneth E. Stanley, P. M. & Inspector........ 57.66
Highland Park ...............-No. 382.... Paul L. Cornelius, Master.............................. .. 51.10
George F. Swan, Senior Warden
Albert R. Bennison, Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Oros! ·---···-··--------.N..383....Thomas Alfred Jadwin, Senior Warden...... 30.34
Bernhard Alvin Ruth, Jr., Past Master
Et Centro ··-·--------No. 3M-~1G~~'a:~.~':~~\v~~--------- 75.60
Norbert P. Tester, P. M. & Ins_pector............ 75.60
Clharles Henry Knights, Past Master
Dinuba No. 385....Arthur A. Anderson, Senior Warden........-. 30.04
Clarence L. Fraser, P. M. & Inspector._ .... 30.04
Coalinga ···-----..:.No. 387_Louis Austin Simmons, Senior Warden ...... 33.26
M. E. Jahns, Junior Warden
Parnassus -·-----No. 388.._Carl H. Allen, Master
Ralph E. Olstad. Senior Warden
R. Philip Lutzi, Jr., Junior Warden
James E. Finley, P. M. & Inspector
Philip R. Chapin, Past Master
George K. Crandall, Past Master
Joseph C. Durhan, Past Master
Andrew L. Johnston, Past Master
Georg~ E. Kimball, Past Master
Paul M. McCue, Past Master
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Constant G. Simon, Past Master
Palos Verdes _-£-__No. 389_Mahlon H. Bullis, Master:·---51.10
Norman 0. Johnson, Senior Warden
Imperial -····-·········-····-·-NQ.390....Frank W. Riddle, Senior Warden.............• 75.18
East Belt ·-··-·----·----No. 391-~~itk'e~J:='\v;~·······-· 11.46
·
Wallace H. Fiske, P. M. & Inspector........ ll.46
West Lake ··--·- ···----No. 392....John A. Sickenberger, Master--- ···--···---- 51.10
.
Wyman C. Knapp, Senior Warden
Clyde E. Hopkins, Past Master
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master----········-···-····-· 51.10
Charles W. Jackson, Past Muter
Robert C. Peyton, Past Mmter...- .............. 51.10
Balder
393-Roger S. Gowan, Master
lrvtn_g L. "Pat" Harris, Senior Warden
Ole A. Swansen, Junior Warden
Walter E. Anderson, Past Master
Le Roy W. Johnson, Past Master
Henry N. Olsen, Past Master
Victor C. O. Peterson, Past Master
University ·---··--·----No. 394.. _C!arence L. Wilson, Master-•..:·-·················· 51.10
Charles 0. Crouse, Senior Warden
Wm. T. Linsenby, Jr., Past Master
Wllllam E. Patterson, Past Master
Myron E. Smith, Past Master
Turlock -·-·-----No. 395_Carlos G. Beatty, Senior Warden..•........••.- •• 9.88
Rex D. Anderson. Junior Warden

--·--··----..No.

Name of Lod1c

No. of Lod1c

Repraentativa

Mllaae An-d

Apollo _

_;_ _______No. 396.... David Porter Russell, Master
Leroy Milton Vay, Senior Warden
Ernest Clifton Chase, Junior Warden
L. Keith Barnard, Past Master
Karl D. Haberern, Past Master
Clifford Henry Noyes, Past Master
Carl Emil Thau, Past Master
RJslng Light --···-·····-··-No• 397....Charles S. Spangler, Muter..............·-········· 51.10
Tom Kyle, Senior Warden
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Pratrmity ---·-········__No. 399....Howard Walter Campen, Junior Warden....
4.12
Ray W. Mcintyre, P. M. & Inspector........ 4.12
Burlingame ______ No. 400....Elverton Blakney Stark, Master
Warren Bertram Parsons. Senior Warden
S. Leslie Hawken, P. M. fJ Inspector
Kenneth R. Ford, Past Master
William Wilkin, Past Master
Bay View ·--··--········-·No. 401....Rdbert E. Munk, Master
Carl W. Densmore, Senior Warden
Earle L. Jones, Junior Warden
Harold M. Bankhead, Past Master
Arthur H. Triggs, Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley ·-··········-····--··.No. 402._Harold C. Brownell, Master.......................... 74.48
E. E. Adams, Senior Warden
W. G. Darnell, Past Master
Percy E. Palmer, Pa!t Master
Jean H. Pak, Past Master
Verba Buena ---··-···-··No.403._Darrell W. Lowder, Master
Herbert S. Taylor, Senior Warden
Vance R. Haswell, Junior Warden
Lester S. McElrwain. Junior Grand Deacon
Hugh L. Burnett, Past Master
Carroll A. Trefts, Past Master
Glendora ______No.4<>4-h!i,!~i:'be~e~J=w~········ 53.50
Moneta - - - -

465

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. 40L.George R. Cobb, Master...·-·········-···-········-· 51.10
John Amos, Senior Warden

Louis L. Cunningham, P. M. fJ lmpector.... 51.10
Reeves W. Baughn, Past Master
Arthur L. Bell, Past Master
Burbank _____ __No, 406....Joseph D. Lampheer, Master..·--··-··············· 51.10
W. D. Hopkins, Senior Warden
Warren A. Ryan. Junior Warden
Daniel F. Haworth, Past Master
Raymond Sudano, Past Master
La Mesa ··--··-·-··No.407...Lyle H. Williams. Master..._......................... 61.44
Chester D. Blanchard, Senior Warden
Lorenza Herman Shaw, Sr., Junior Warden
Sierra Madre ····---··-·····No. 408....Thurman A. Cometh, Master....·---············· 52.20
William E. Bowers, Senior Warden
James W. Moore, Past Master
Honolulu _________No. 409....Eugene Walker Neal, Senior Warden.......... 350.90
Robert Edgar, P. M. fJ Inspector...............• 350.90
Charter Rock _____.:...._._No. 410....Ralph A. Stanley, Master
Allen J. Gould, Senior Warden
Arthur L. Patterson, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Albert M. Poulsen, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lodge

Repre.entatlveo

Mllieap Allowed

Perris ····-···············-··-···-No. 411 ...L. M. Kirkpatrick, Senior Warden................
Calexico ····-····-----No. 412....Eclwin Denton Simmons, Senior Warden....
James W. Phipps, Junior Warden
Arlington ··········-·-·-·'-•No. 414....Newell Rumery Chesterton. Jr., Master......
Carl F. Peters, P. M. fJ lnapector................
Silver Trowel ..................No. 415....Robert Hennon, Senior Warden....................
Qyde W. Sheuy, Junior Warden
Lindsay .........................-No. 416....L. L. Leeper, Senior Warden........................
H. J. Hartig, Junior Warden
Alva A. Daniells, P. M. fJ lmpector............
aov1a --···················-·······No. 417....Edward F. Cunliffe, Senior Warden. ........_.
Frank Tillman. Junior Warden
Julius C. Galliano, Past Master
George E. Talbert, Past Muter
Elysian .............•.......•........N(). 418 ....CdJ.~aJ:~l,~~;.1eS~ni~W~~;;··-·······

57.04
76.30
51.10
51.10
51.10
32.46 32.46
28.22

51.10

Henry 0. Coley, Past Master
Upland ·······-···················:.No. 419....Michael J. Hanna, Master-·-·························· 54.62
William P. Buttery, Senior Warden
J. Harrv Snowden, P. M. fJ Inspector........ 54.62
Kerman ···-················-··-~No. 420....lienry W. Overgaard, IVI:aater..·-·············-···· 26.54
Willard R. McCall, Senior Warden
Inglewood ·······-····-·······-No. 421....Harvey L. Tyrrell, Maater--················-··· 51.10
Eugene B. Snow, Senior Warden
John A. Dull. Past Master
Eagle Rock ·······-········--No. 422....Ian S. Wharton, Master-····-··-······················· 51.10
James E. Calhoun. Senior W•den
Thomas A. Mooney, Junior Warden
William E. K~gh, P. M. & lnspec:tor............ 51.10
York ····-···········-········-···-No. 423....Arnold Price, Muter..·-··-···-·················-····· 51.10
Milton Dorsey, Senior Warden
Wallace E. Jobe, Past Master
Exeter ··········-·····"-··········No. 424....Norbert Mixter, Past Master.......................... 31.86
C. G. Shepherd, Past Master fJ Representative
Holtville ··········-~---·····---·-No. 425....Monroe A. Horton, Muter--················-·-··· 76.30
Midway -·····-·····-··-No. 426....Ernest C. Leipold, Senior Warden................ 39.00
Chino Valley ··········-··---No. 427.. _George R. Stray. Junior Warden.................. 54.50
San Dimas ···········-·--·No. 428.. _Karl L. Parmenter, Senior Warden.-·-········ 53.64
Albert E. Carroll, P. M. fJ Inspector........ 53.64
Plttaburg ···············-····-No. 429....Ghristopher L. Davidson, Master..·-······-····· 4.24
Lynden LaVere, Senior Warden
Paul Ulrich, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson, P. M. fJ Inspector........
4.24
Don E. Ward, Past Muter
McCloud ......................_No. 430....R. B. Mcintosh, Senior Warden....·-·······-··· 35.42
Charles S. Hogan. P. M. fJ lmpec:tor_______ 35.42
Phil N. Myers, Past M8*r....-.................. 51.10
Alpha ·····-·························No• 431....Lloyd N. Mason. Master
Prank E. Lober, Senior Warden
Oliver I. Kitchen, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Henry L. Qarke, Past Master
Elwood C. Friswold, Past Master
Joseph A. Jeans, Past Master
E. C. Lambrecht, Past Master
John MacGrath, Past Master
A. S. Remell. Past Master
Harry J. Stoffers, Past Master
Fred L. Vogeli, Past Master
Hammonton ---···---No. 433.._Arohie William Hopfield, P.M. fJ Rep......... 12.30

466

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name of Lodi•

No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milea1e Allowed

Maricopa _ ______ No. UL.A. W. Scott, Muter-----·-·······- ·······-- 39.20
·
John E. Colbert, Past Master
C. E. Moore, P. M. & Inspector.................. 39.00
Fairmount ···············-·-·-No, 435.... William Kent Raines, Senior Warden
Victor Louis Demartini, Junior Warden
Peter A. deVries, Past Master
Claremont ....- ...,........-No. 436.. _Fordyce A. Wilson, Senior Warden............ 54.20
Lancaster -··················-No. 437....James E. Bacon, Master.................................. 44.46
Augustus C. Cobb, Senior Warden
William D. Knight, Junior Warden
Acacia ---··-·--·-·No. 438_ Friedr. Wm. Vogel, Mastel'---- - ---·· 51.10
Albert Kiechie, P.M. & lmpector..·-····-······· 51.10
Tyrian --·················-·-·.?-lo· 439••.. Gilbert Paul Elliott, Junior Warden............ 7.32
Delbert E. Luck, P.M. & lnspectJor................ 7.32
Standard ····-·---- -No. 440.... George L. Bertotti, Senior Warden
Coronado ····-···- · -·-·-No.441....Donald W. Stubbs, Senior Warden.............. 60.84
Irwin Sonnabaum, Junior Warden
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
Blackmer -·---~-----··-No• 442.. _Dustin D. Parkhurst, Muter.·-······················ 60.84
Carl B. Mullins. Senior Warden
Frank R. Porath, Junior Warden
Charles J. Savage, P.M. & Inspector......- ..- 60.84
Oscar E. Hanson, Past Master
Omo E . Tyler, Past Master
Schofteld ···-··-··-··-..No. 443..-Robert Chong Kong, Muter- -····-···-····-··· 350.90
Carpinteria ····-····-··-····-No. 444.... Arthur H. Christensen, Senior Warden........ 43.18
Raymond D. Greene, Junior Warden
Wilshire
-tti_John McClelland Wright, Master.....•..·-······· 51.10
~ard George Reed, Senior Warden
Frederic E. Clark, P.M. & Inspector............ 51.10
Herbert A. Huebner, Paat Muter.·-·····-······· 51.10
La Puente ............•.........._ No. 446__Joe Persons, Senior Warden.......................... 52.80
Torrance ----·-r---Ne. 447._.Raymond 0. Louq_ee, Senior Warden.......... 51.10
Frank Thompson, junior Warden
Mt. Diablo ·-·····-···-·-No• 448_8. L. Jackson, Muter.. ---···- ---·······-··- 1.90
Garo Gajarlan, Senior Warden
Verne Hendrix, Junior Warden
Granville A. Adams, Past Master
Royle E. King, Past Master
Park ···- ···-·- No. 449....William H. Osborne, Master
Adolf G. Resler, Senior Waroeo
Robert E. Hannan, Junior Warden
William J. Davis, Past Master
Reginald Duden, Past Master
John Fe)"guson, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Robert K. Huppert, Past Master
William D. Wickwire, Past Master
Van Nuys -·-···- · · · -- No.450_Vidor M. Kimble, Master.............................. 51.10
Robert E. Gibson, Senior Warden
John L. Girdlestone, Junior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, P.M. & lmpector........ 51.10
Reginald Fudge, Past Master
Montebello -················-:.•.Ne. 451-.Rolla J. Smith, Maatier....•.·--·-·-- ··- ········ 51.10
L~ie. P. Vaughan, Senior Warden
Frank L. Sutliff, P.M. & lnapector............._ 51.10
Merville L. Lamb, Past Master
San Pasqual --········-·-No• 452....Edward Judson .Houck, Master.................... 52.20
Richard Alexander Hupfeld, Senior Warden
Walter F. Kress, Past Master

--··-·······-···-·-"°'

Name of Lodi•

No. of Lodie

Representatives

467
Milea1e Allo""'d

Bethlehem - - --·-----No.453._Ste phen S. Gorewltz, Senior Warden
George M. Orchard, Junior Warden
Vadie E. Bevers, Past Master
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Charles A. Davis, Past Master
Stanley W. Kerley, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
John C. Painter, Past Master
Arthur H . Peterson, Past Master
Walter A. Rohde, Past Master
Crocker -···-·····-·---No. 454....Colvin F. Toland, Master
Lyal lnjjersoll, Junior Warden
Ralph G. Riches, P.M. & Inspector
,
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Leonard Wester, Past Master
Golden West - ········- -.No. 455...• Herbert Henry Eling, Master
Geor~ Edward Harris, Senior Warden
Ture Wilhelm Bjorkman, Junior Warden
Adolph Philip Bilay, Past Master
Earle Bancroft Brehaut, Past Master
George Robert Brockmann, Past Master
James Evans, Past Master
Chester R. MacPhee, Past Master
John William Mitchell, Past Master
Ramona ····-·····-- - ---No. 457....Amold G. Robertson, Senior Warden....... . 51.10
La Vergene E. Bank, Junior Warden
Jack E. Anderson, Past Master
Henry S. Orme................No. 458....John T. Hope, Master...................................... 51.10
Donald G. Edmonston, Senior Warden
Milton H. Lang, P.M. & Inspector............... . 51.10
Wm. B. Mott, Past Master
Rlv~rbank ·-··-········-·- ····No. 459....A. Dale Perry, Senior Warden...·-···--·········· 8.76
Mount Oso ····-····-········-No. 460.... Francis Dennett. Junior Warden.................... 6.08
Argonaut --···-- -..- .No. 461..-Ray G. Smith, Master
George H. Taylor, Senior Wa-rden
Earl A. Caldwell, P.M. & Inspector
Walter R. Bowden. Past Master
William 0. Kuchlen:z:, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Charles F. O'Malley. Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Girl Walter, Past Master
Arthur H. Schroeder, Past Master
Paul Revere -----·--·No• 462....Maurice R. Amsden, Master
Ahe B. Epstein, Senior Warden
J. Manville Johnson, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Asst. Grand Lecturer
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
'Thomas W. S. Wu, Past Master
Morgan Hill -········-·-·······No. 463.•-~.\..T~hldd~~·&;;····-···-·············· 5.80
Alta Vista ____.:_ _ _.....No. 46-L.George C. Siebel, Senior Warden ·
Harold W . Stelling, Past Master
Harry L. W.lntersgill, Past Master
Center ···········-····-···--···No. 465.-Seba Harland Glahn, Senior Warden.......... 27.52
Bert :Merion Green, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P.M. & Inspector............ 27.52
Marion A. Long, Past Master

468
Name of Lo4ce

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loclse

Repr-.ntative1

469

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodsc
MilealC Alt....ed

Llhertu ···---·-···-·····No.166.-~i:~da~n~~~-w~~····--·······

36.70

Fred Ross Doll, Junior Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Asst. Grand Lecturer 36.70
Hoyt Gregg, Past Master
Robert J. Myers, Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Master
Culver Qty -···-··-····-·-··No. 467....Virgil Roy Land, Master................................ 51.10
James Kenneth Windsor, Senior Warden
Rockridge _______ No. 468-Charles Marden Shelton, Master
Emil John Lage, Senior Warden
Don S. Staley, Junior Warden
Oharles Jannero Mingham, Past Master
Yorba Linda -·-····----No.46 9-Harold V. Keir, Master---·-························ 53.24
Lincoln ---·····-··--No. -t70_Hallett E. Meilicke, Senior Warden
Oarlton H. Rothblum, Junior Warden
Alexander McBimey, Past Master
Leonard T. Pockman, Past Master
Delta --····--·---····- ·No. -t7L..William D. Platek, Master............................ 7.22
William E. Offennann, Senior Warden
Taubner G. Hamma, Junior Warden
George W. Graffis, Past Master
Maui --····-·--·········· -No. -!72....Edward Steltzner Schmiclling,
Senior Warden ............................................ 371.80
Eugene Paul Jijine, Past Master
Blythe ----·-·---No .-t7J__Lyman Burton Todd. Senior Warden............ 68.26
Edward Madison Downs, Junior Warden
Victory ···-·········-·-·-···-··N o.-!7-t....Reece Hawkins, Senior Warden
W. C. Bird, Past Master
Harry .'.f. Darr, Past Master
Otto Von Raven. Past Master
America ···----···········-·-No• -!75.-Leo J. Wilson, Malter·---················-··········- 51.10
Htltoo Little. Senior W ante.
Coachella -··-············---No . -!76._.Raymond M. White, Senior Warden............ 62.54
Lee Roy Jakes, Jr., Junior Warden
Temblor -·---·-·-··-No. -!77.._Alex Mutch, Master-····-····-···· ····-·············· 39.20
Thousand Oaks -··-··-·····No. -!78-Lynn C. Duggan. Master
Stanley R. Williamson, Senior Warden
Orman T. Stone, Sr., Junior Wardm
Ferd A. Schlafke, Past Master
R. Percy Wisecarver, Past Master
Golden Rule -···-·········-··No. -!79_..Frank H. Moeller, Maater.............................. 4.12
Edwin C. Van de Mark. Senior Warden
Milton A. Nielson. Junior Warden
Leon E. Allen, Past Master
Joseph C. Bosdtlcen, Past Master
Oscar M. Swensen, Past Master
Fellowship ........................No. -!80....Gerald G. Sabine, Master
Herman Zeller. Past Master
Frank Leograude, Senior Warden
Mt. Davidson ..................No. 481....Laurent Alfred Loustau. Master
Thomas Jefferson Bass, Senior Warden
Glenn Derry Magee. Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand l\Alaster
Angus S. Holden. Past Master
James Murray, Kemp, Past Master
Harold Meyer, Past Master
Alfred H. Nicoll, Past Master
Daniel D. Rowlands, Past Master

No. ol Loc11e

Repreacnta&i-

Mllup A1l-.d

Oarence F. Smlth............No. -t82_Thomas J. Covington, Master........................
Virgil R. Taylor. Senior Warden
E. Snapper Ingram, Past Master
Bell · · - - ·
No,-!83.-lames D. Kelso, Muter-···-······ ······-·-·-····
Fred F. Elliott, Senior Warden
Frank A. Lister, Junior Warden
H. C. Comaford, Past Master
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Albert Pike ··············-·--No. -!8-t.._G. Raymond Garrick, Jr., Senior Warden....
Homer S. Rice, Junior Warden
George F. Corr, Past Master
Chowchilla -··-··-·····-···-··No. -!85._Thomas Blanchard, Senior Warden..............
Caledonia ···-···········-----No . -t86_Floyd L. Kimball, Master:---··--· ·····-·
George F. Menderhausen. Senior Warden
Robert W. Beckwith. Junior Warden
W. Waters Shugart, Past Master
va11eJo ··-··--····---··-··--N o.-t87....~!:h!~ci!: ~~~~~aw~d;;;····--·--·---·····

51.10
51.10

51.10
24.4-t
36.70

2.8i
Alexander ~tine, Junior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, P.M. & Inspector.......... 2.84
Charles J. Harris, Past Master
Alvin N. Hulse, Past Master
Patterson ·····-·-·--··-··No . -!88._Walter Lee, P.M. & Representative............ 8.36
Eaat Bay ·-······---····-····No . -!89..•.Earl L. Daymude, Master
VlrgU F. Taylor. Senior Warden
Ser_gel N. Ivanoff, Junior Warden
C. B. Marker, Past Master
John A. Sobey, Past Master
Corcoran --·-···----No . -t90-Rlchard H. Blanton, Jr., Junior Warden........ 29.66
Woodstock -······---No. 49L. William F. Gorman. Master
Charles E. Jansen. Senior Warden
Leslie W. Jack, Junior Warden
Alvin A. I-lorwege, Grand Tiler
N. Allen Powers. Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson. Past Master
Charles L. Wilhelm. Past Master
Garvanza ···········-·····---No. 492....William C. Stephens, Mast.er.......................... 51.10
Martin C. Nelson, Senior Warden
Atascadero ·········-····-·-No. 493....William J. Kendall, Senior Warden.............. 30.08
W. W. B. Clayton, Past Master
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
L. H. Webber, Past Master
Acorn ····---···-······---No. <f9.f....Dr. Rudolph G. Johanson, Master
Carl R. Moore, Senior Warden
Howard L. McCarthy! Junior Warden
E. Lloy-d Hanson. P.M. & Inspector
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswick, Past Master
Lebanon ···-····-············-···No. 495....Robert H. Markuse, Master
Eugene S. Hopp, Senior Warden
Ridrard A. Krug, Junior Warden
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Harold S. Stein, Past Master
Bernard B. Stimmel. Past Master
Jack Urban. Past Master
Aaron Wiener, Past Master

470
Name of Lod11e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod11e

Repreeentativea

Mileage Allowed

Fremont ·-·······-·····-·········No· 497.•_Walter M. Beers, Master
Frank I. Hess, Senior Warden
Allison A Falkner, Junior Wiµ-den
Carl 0. Olson; Past Master ·
Melvin Oredsen, Past Master
Stockton ······-···········--·······No. 498....Lloyd V. Dronberger, Master........................
·
Clyde E. Davis, Senior Warden
Lester 0. Wisler, Past Master
Capital City ....................•.No. 499....Charles A Dean, Jr., Master..........................
Ward W. De Masters, Senior Warden
Raymond A Bbbage, Junior Warden
Roosevelt -·······················No. 500....John C. Reynolds, Master
Robert 0. Reynolds, Senior Warden
Robert C. Olson, Junior Warden
Marvin K. Cloyd, Past Master
Otto C. Huth, Past Master
Nils E. Johnsson, Past Master
Westwood ··············-·······-No· 50L_James W. Hunderman, Senior Warden........
Wayne Gleason, Past Master
'Harbor ··-····-·········--·······-No. 502....Harry J. Brande, Master
Calvin H. Hull, Senior Warden
Alllson R. Higgins, Junior Warden
Harry L. Muller, P.M. & Inspector
Emory M. Milner, Past Master
Point ···-···'·········---·~--No. 503....Don L. Davis, Master
V!lctor Prenk, Senior Warden
Colvin W. Hicks, Past Master
Seaside -·····-················--··No. 504....Gauss Loper, Master....•....._............................
Arthur R. Moberg, Sr.. Senior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P.M & Inspector...... ..
Wm. T. Corbusier, Past Master
J. Everett Houser, Past Master
George D. Magruder, Past Master
Silver Cord ····-·······-·-····No. 505....Walter I. Ridgway, Senior Warden..............
Olen F. Turner, P.M. & Inspector................
Mount Olive -···---··········No• 506....Kenneth E. Ellsworth, Master......................
Harry Mancke, Senior Warden
Harold Sailor, Junior Warden
Russell Northrop, P.M. & Inspector..............
Harvey A. Harkness, Past Master
Karl V. Johnson, Past Master
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
Morris Kroopen, Past Master
El Segundo ····-·····-·-····No. 507....Raymond J. BerkHne, Senior Warden............

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

Repreeentativea

471
Mileage Allo""'d

Cahuenga ·····-············-····-No· 513....IJ: ~~~n~~ci-;;-;·w;;;f;~-------······-··- 51.10

7.22

7.64

37.94

51.10
51.10

53.50
53.50
51.10
51.10

51.10
Joppa -·······-··········___No. 508..••J. J. Little, Mallter..·-···············- -··············--····· 28.08
Benjamin Franklin ..........No. 509....Robert Wilkins, Senior Warden. ................... 51.10
John H. Tillery, Junior Warden
J. Frank Moore, Past Master
Walter B. Rorick, Past Master
Cupertino ........................-No. 510....Norman C. Christensen, Master.................... 4.12
Cecil R. Reid, Junior Warden
William W. Sharp, Past Master
Sunnyvale ......................•.No. 51 L ..Albert L. Adelman, Senior Warden ............. . 3.74
Clyde E. Waltrip, Past Master
Palms ···-···············-······-··No. 512....Roy Milton Foss, Master.....- ......................... 51.10
Lloyd Henry Shelton, Senior Warden
James Trevor Goodman, Junior Warden

Earl L. Kingman, Junior Warden
Roy L. Joyce, Past Master
Charles L. Webber, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Argonne .....................- ...•.No. 514...Joseph J. Pape, Master
Earle R. Dapper, Senior Warden
Carl F. Peterson, Junior Warden
Edwin Gumbinger, Past Master
David Mann Taylor, Past Master
Donald 0. Townsend, Past Master
Vermont Square ..............No. 515.•..Ralph C. Ball, Master..•...•....-......................... 51.10
William H. Terry, Senior Warden
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
George E. Ruppers, Past Master
Taft ···············-·······-·---.No. 516....Harley E. Towle, Senior Warden.................. 39.00
George H. Stewart, Past Master
Mount Vernon ................No. 517....Alfred Stettler, Master
James Wilson, Jr.. Junior Warden
Edward J. Bird, Past Master
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
Wendell T. Matlock, Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
Walter L. Stobing, Past Master
Charles J. Thompson, Past Master
Ernest 0. Wade, Past Master
La Jolla ..............................No. 518 ....Donald C. McDonald. Senior Warden.......... 60.84
·
Edward E. Rees, Junior Warden
Harry H. Aiman, P.M. & Inspector................ 60.84
Euclid ...............................& 519....Reed L. Pack, Senior Warden........................ 51.10
Ionic --······.:.···----·-····--No.520._Sam W. Fleishman, Master............................ 51.10
Irving A. Gale, Senior Warden
Bruce Avon, Past Master
David E. Jacobs, Past Master
Claude Lenz, Past Master
Piedmont ·····--····---·---·---·No. 521....Charles W. Scott, Senior Warden
Richard H. Chamberlain, Past Master
Walter F. Schag, Past Master
Swi.rtse ····--·---·--·-·--••·..No. 522....Norman M. Lethin, Muter............................ 51.10
Jack M. Dodd. Senior Warden
Cedric H. Canter, Junior Warden
Hubert L. Hall, Past Master
BellHower ·········-··········-··No. 523....J. H. Jones, Master.·--·--···-······---------······------· 51.10
Floyd Hockett, Senior Warden
Catalina Island ................No. 524....George W. Wilson, Miulter.........-................. 57.30
William Bennett, Senior Warden
George Washington ........ No. 525....John Newsham, Master
Joseph H. Schneider, Senior Warden
John K. Rot'h, Junior Warden
Adolph Franzen, P.M. & Inspector
John Johnston, Past Master
Lauryn H. Taylor, Past Master
Bay City ..........................No. 526.... Harry L. Mishkind, Master
Harold Langfelder, Senior W'Bl"den
Jerome D. Nossen, Junior Warden
'rhos. A. Dethlefsen, Past Maater
Covenant ..........................No. 527....Edwin Samuel Douglas, Jr., Master.............. 51.10
Ralph Runnels Post, Senior Warden
Emmett E. Jordan, Past Master

472
Name of Lodce

PROCEEDINGS OF THI!
No. ol Lod1e

llcpre1111iadva

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mlleap All--t

Beverly Hills -······--·-No . 528....Robert Ellis Reel, Master...·-························· 51.10
Franklin P. Freeman. Senior Warden
Alonzo G. Scull, Junior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., Past Grand Master.....-. 51.10
Joe Bookman. Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Frederick A. Fox, Past Master
Loyalty ·························-···No• 529....Nathan Katzev, Master.•••.·-···························· 51.10
Joseph A. Visger III, Senior Warden
Marvin H. Davidson, Junior Warden

Ed~;;; ~.!irt~~er.................................. 51.10

Lloyd P. Bass, Past Master
Irving Bekey, Past Master
Samuel Berliner, Past Master
Manuel Clavin, Past Master
Arthur Linsk, Past Master
Brice Martin, Past Master
Harry Rocque, Past Master
Joseph A. Visger, Past Master
louis Wass, Past Master
Joseph H. Wolf, Past Master
Sun Garden ·--·················No. 5.30..-0yde R. Allbritten, Master............................
Anders H. Nielsen. Senior Warden
Herbert R. HarQ!llve, P.M. & lnspeotor......
Everett La Joya Coyle, Past Master
Leroy Stubblefield, Past Master
Alexandria ··-·--·---··No· 531 ....Wm. S. Brannan, Master
R. L. Wright, Senior Wwden
A. J. Zambik, Junior Warden
Aaron A. Arbogast, Past Master
W. J. Chisholm, Past Master
Frank F. Goodman, Past Master
Cyril G. Hansen, Past Master
D. E. Mears, Past Master
Smyrna -·-·.:···---· ·No. 532....Lloyd L. Coates, Senior W~~-·····-········
Glenn A. Ritchey, Junior WtJXUCU
Azure -···-···-···- ·-···& 533....Edwin W. Wildman. Senior W:darden..........
Harry B. Wildman, Junior War en
Forest Hill ···-··········-·······No. 534.... Shelton G. Mitchell, Senior Warden
Alexander Hamilton ____No. 535.._Willson C. Ouk, Master---·· ··-·········
Edwin F. Franke, Senior Warden
Howard B. Berry, Past Master
Edward J. Blickfoldt, Put Muter.........·-······
Archie J. Bush, Past Master
Seal Roc:k --···-···-···--No. 536....Abe Balukian, Master
.
.
Duncan C. Smith, Senior Warden
William G. Mount, Junior Warden
Edwin W. Bodr, Sr., Past Master
Fr.ink Gedgate, Past Master
Harry H. Jacobson, Past Master
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Otto Stewart. Past Master
John K. Wright, Past Master

=::.

27.52
27.52

Name of Lodse

No. of Lod1e

~pr-..tatlWI

473
Milea1e Allowed

Ascot -·--·--·····--No. S38.·-~:0l:r~~lddsha~~~~\v~···.. 51.10
Martin 0. Veland. P.M. & Inspector............ 51.10
Belvedere ----·············.. .No.539....Robert Lawler, Senior Wmdm....................... Sl.10Loran B. Anderson. Junior Warden
Queen Beach ···············---No .540.._Geoi-ge E. Gates, M&Aer--···-···-·············· 51.10
Forest L. Ray, SenJar Warden
Marvel Feirchild, Past ~
Henry Morse Stephena....No. 541....Robert K. Blanchard, Master
Robert L. Richardson, Senior Warden
Robert G. Smits, Junior Warden
Robert H. Taylor, P.M. & Inspector
Fred A. Flanders, Past Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Mark A. Sawrie, Pa.st Master
North HoUywood •...........No. 542 ....Lon V. Price, Muter-······-··-······················· 51.10
J. Glen Gladson. Senior Warden
Reginald Bunce, P.M. & Inspector................ 51.10
Oarence A. Ross, Past Master
Signal ···-···-··········-··---No. 543..-Donald F. Evans, Muter-·-··-······················ 51.10
Thomas H. Young, Senior Warden
Myron E. Roudebush, P.M. & Inspector...... 51.10
Alvin Paul Bly, Past Master
William Chittick. Jr., Past Master
Glendale -----···-·- No. 544.·-itag~~~y~~~w~···--......... .......... 51.10
Paul R. Queen, Put Master
Jonathan -··-·-··-·····-..No. 545....John A. Hinman, Seoklr Wanlm

9.18

53.~0
51.10
51.10

Utopia ····-···-··-·--·..No· 537.._*::.~tt't:
=-w~~··············· 51.10
Arthur Beard. Paat Master
F. T. Nagle, Past Master

San Gabriel -············--N o.s-.6-W. Oare Moore, Malter--···········-·········· 51.10
Jerome M. Miller, Senior Warden
Ivan W. Newport, Junior Warden
Arcadia ···---·--·-····-·····No• 547 .. _H. Leslie Landing, Muter-···-··--................ 51.10
Les Laz:arus, Senior Werdm
Harold Hawkins, Pait MMter
Triangle ··-····-·-·---No. 548....Robert A. Bergeron. Muter.·-···-·············-····· 51.10
Clarence M. Kenney, Senior Warden
Peter F. Phillips, Junior Warden
James E. Douglass, Past Master
George W. Ellis, Past Master
Juatke -~·-----··-···No. 549.-Charles J. Mickelson, Master
Harold fiansen. Senior Warden
Paul A. Hackler, P.M. & Inspector
William W. Sarry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
George D. Horn, Past Master
Frank Ringo Jackson, Past Master
Percy V. Maury, Past Master
Emmet J. Pierce, Past Master
Seaport ···-··-·--········ ···-No. 550....Lester Fortune Bulloch, Master
Maynard James Boone, Senior Warden
Edward Vincent Lemos, Junior Warden
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
Harry_Simpson. Past Master
John Wullschlege:r, Past Master

474
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

475

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileaae Allowed

Lakeshore -·-·-·-·-~No. 551.....Ralph B. Vincent, Master
George F. Ernst, Senior Warden
John S. Aikin, Junior Warden
Paul S. Bc;iren, Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Lloyd W . Hanson, Past Master
Ronald H. Johnson, Past Master
Thomas M. Lewis, Past Master
Ralph H. Moreland, Past Master
William E. Yocom, Past :M"aster
William E . Yocom, Jr .. Past Master
Semper Vlrens ·····-·········No• 552....James Courtney Tario, Master....................•. 34.92
Harold Henry Rohds, Senior Warden
Alexander Duncan, P.M. & Inspector.......... 34.92
Clarence A. TTOWbridge, P.M. & Inspector 34.92
Harold Laton Murie, Past Master
Educator ------~Ne. 554....Handford L. Oews, Senior Warden
Roland E. Dover, Junior Warden
Francis D. DeLong, Past Master
Donald B. Ryan, Past Muter
Ralph M. Small, Past Meeter
White Pine ··········-···--··-·No. 555....Herman Gray, Senior Warden.........-........._ 38.10 .
R.ichard W . Gould, Past Master
Fairfax --··--·····-·-···-No. 556.... David R. Lawrence, Master
Arthur D. Darrington, Senior Warden
James Kerwin, Junior Warden
Hermosa ---·········'-···--··---No. 557....Louis Henry Staples, Senior Warden............ 51.10
Paul Thompson, P.M. & Inspector................ 51.10
Point Firmin ·········----No. 558._.Clyde M. Thomas, Jr., Muter........................ 51.10
Terence P. Carney, Senior Warden
John R. Wyckoff, Past Master
Craftsmen -----·-········-No. 559....Wm. T. Deckeraw, Muter............ _............. . 51.10
F. L. Richards, Senior Warden
Plymouth ······----·-·····.:....•.•'.No. 560....Wm. Henry Rury, Master
Peter M. Tripp, Senior Warden
Edward R Siems, P.G.M., Grand Treasurer
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Herbert M. McCracken, Past Master .
Gerald E. Rhine, Past Master
East San Diego~ ...............No. 561.._Frank Fodor, Master..•.·---··-·····--········--··-······ 60.84
William H. Owens, Senior Warden
Samuel E. Haglund, Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Pyramid ---···-·-··No. 562....Chester H. Newell, Master
Everett L. Walsh, Senior Warden
John Brooke, Past Master
Germain W. Miller, Past Master
Jay D. Szakal, Past Master
South Park ·····-···•·········-No. 563....Noah T. Dickson, Master.............................. 51.10
William Bottorff, Senior Warden
Lawrence B. Black, Past Master
Foothill --··········-····-··No: 564...J . Gardiner Grady, Master
li. Dale Dashiell, Senior Warden
, Lawrence J. C.a.mozzi, Junior Warden
Ray A. Farley, Past Master
Ben L. Miller, Past Master
West Adams -···-~·----- ......& 565....Emmet E. Moody, Senior Warden................ 51.10
C. David Johnson, Past Master
E ..Al. Rathbun, Past Master

Name of Lodge

~o. of Lod11e

Repreaentativea

Mileaae Allowed .

James A. Garfteld. ............. No. 566.-Field Thompson, MMm----·······-····-•·····
·
erome E. Hester, Senior Warden
oseph W. Danely, Junior Warden
Menill M. Baysoar, Past Master
Joseph H. Fraizer, Past Master
Searchlight ··-··--·······--No• 567....Robert R. Hardman, Mast«.---··-···------····
Dale J. Crawford, Senior Warden
David Perkins, Past Master
Park Boulevard ··---·-·No. 568....William T. Friborg, Master
Ole Knudsen, Senior Warden
Tames K. Polk, Junior Warden
Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
Tames E. Hammond, Past Master
Harry D. Ho.sac, Past Master
Edward W. Long, Past Master
Willis V. McBeth, Past Master
Francis A. Roberts, Past Master
Chateau Thierry ·- --···ll{o. 569.. _Morris E. Steward, Master
Howard S. Kaulbach, P.M. & Inspector
Eugene Barnard, Past Master
Harold D. Weber, Past Master
Military ~ervke ..............No. 570.... Louis H. Strohecker, Master
Rollinson F. Coffey, Senior Warden
Lester M. Walton, Junior Warden ·
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Hubert A. Hemphill, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck..........No. 571....Raymond W. Campbell, Master
Oharles C. Spiegel. Senior Ward·e n
Benjamin M. Dresser, Junior Warden
Elbent W. Davis. Grand Lecturer
James Madison ···-···········No. 572....Theodore C. Porter, Master.................... _......
Ray Smith, P.M. & lmpector........................
Hillcrest --,-.-·-·····--········No, 573....Harry H. Oayton, Master
James T. Duthie, Senior Warden
William A. Remer, Junior Warden
Merlin W. Drucquer, Past Master
Don F. T. Parkin, Past Master
Brown Zarley, Past Master
S. W. Hackett. .................No. 574...:Thomas H. Cann, Muter.... _._ ........................
Vincent J. Thompson, Senior Warden
James E. Lee, Junior Warden
Fort Crook ·-··-..-·-·---··-'·No. 575..-W. W. Reynolds, Senior Warden................
W . C. Graves, Junior Warden
Otho Stewart, Past Master
El Cajon Valley................No. 576....Arthur B. Merrill, Senior Warden............... .
Courtney B. Kingsland, Junior Warden
Hugh D. Good. P.M. & Inspector................
Sunnyside ••.•....•..•.........•.. No. 577....William B. Harmon, Muter........- ................
Homer Mayes, Senior Warden
Louis H. Ma·hler, P.M. & lnspectcr.-...........
F. Wesley Davies, Past Maater....................
John A. Low, Past Master
Guy A. Tolie, Past Master
Progressive ···-·····-·······--.No. 578....James A. Carrier, ~.............................. _
Everett L. Halstead, Senior Warden
Sidney E. Mills, Junior Warden
Arthur V . Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller, Past Master

51.10

J

51.10

51.10
51.10

60.84
37.82

61.84
61.44
51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10

(j.RAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

476

Name of Lodac
Name of Loda•

4.77

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. ol Lodge

Repracntativeo

Milca1C AllOWld

Warren G. Harding•.._.....No. 579_Fred J. Stehlkamp, Master....·-················-·- 7.64
John Kimbrough, Senior Warden
Conrad E. Herrmann, Junior Warden
John M. Lee, Senior Grand Ste'WW'd.............. 7.64
Henry R. Brown, Past Miaster
Carl W . Brainard, Past Master
Peter A. Stenberg, Past Master
Santa Marla -··················No• 580..-J. Robert McDaniel, Master..............·-·····~- 63.84
Zenos Y. Coleman, Senior Warden
Security -·········-·-·-No. 581-Harry E. Weatherholt, Master.................. _ 36.70
Jame A . Dalley, Junior Warden
l:..eooard T . Jenkins, Past Master
Ken P. Sward, Past Master
Rialto --···········--·No• 582..-Jack H. Krause, Senior Warden............- ...,. 55.62
Chas. C. Hamden, Junior Warden
Waaco -··-···--·No. 583..-P.hillip R. Cameron, Senior Wa~ti.··-····-·· 32.60
Horace A. Grisso, Junior Warden
Fred C. Pritschke, P.M. & Inspector..........- 32.60
Harry H. Pollock, Past Master
Harding ·--·················-·No· 584....Robert H. Mason, Senior Warden..............-? 51.10
William H. Errett, Junior Warden
Anson McArthur, P.M. & Inspector............- 51.10
Melvin A. Pixley, Past Master
Manchester ···············--·..No· 585.. _Judson T . Sparks, Master..................•.. _ _ 51.10
Richard E . Snyder, Senior Warden
51.10
Elmer R. Lotz, P.M. f:J Inspector............_
,.
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Master
Garden Grove ·······--·····No. 586....James Cecil Huston, Master.....................- •.:.; 53.50
Valley Forge -······'-·······No• 587-.George W . Fogg, Master.....................- .•...J 51.10
. Ray H. Alexander, Senior Warden
Chas. S. Barrett, Past Master
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
Leslie S. Wayman, Past Master
El Sereno -···•·-··-···-····No. 588....George E. Enell, Master................................. 51.10
Charles K. Wagner, Senior Warden
Richard B. Ward, Past Master
Kauai -··············-·······No· 589....Hector McDonald Moir,
Master, Acting l~ector. attending by
direction of the Grand Master.........---···- 371.80
William B. Salsbury, Senior Warden.......... 371.80
Sau Yee Chang, Past Master
Compass ..:.--··-···········---.No. 590•.-Philip S. Hunt, Senior Warden. ..................,... 54.08
William S. Hambly, Junior Warden
Escalon ............. - .........•.... No. 591....0harles Noden, Master..·--························- 7.94
Wallace S. Nelson, Senior Warden
Tujunga ;.-·-·················-No. 592....

~fctpM~i.J!!J:;,J'M:e~~~---···········- 51.10

William E. Howell, Jr., Senior Warden
All States -·--··'---·····No. 593_..Frank R. Spencer, Muter...·-·················- ·-'
Bums N. Nickerson, Senior Warden
Service ----···-··············No. 594.... Kenneth Edward Carmichael, Master............
William Everett Moller, Senior Warden
Ralph Prank Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell....No. 595-.Don F. Nisbet. Senior Warden...........- -·Guardian --···-·-······-···No. 596--Richard T . Jensen, Master.......................-....;!
R.ichard T. Srassell, Senior Warden
Robert H. Coker, Past Master
Walter Ntsewaner, Past Master
Frank J. Vieira, Past Master

51.10

SJ.JO
51.10
51.10

No. of Lodge

Rcprc..ntativa

Mllca~ Allowed

Pearl Harbor ···············-··.No. 598.. _Earle W. Hughes, Master.............................. 350.90
C.arl E. Williams, Past Master
Carmelita --·-··--··-·--·..No. 599....Dr. Harold R. Benedict. Master..·-··············· 52.20
Charles L. Loos, Senior Warden
Harrison R. Baker, Jr., Junior Warden
Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Dr. J. Tyler Parker, Jr., Past Master
Milton J. Seidel. Past Master
····--·----········-···No. 600·-·J)!fta!'o~~ff!~u~~=~ W~................ 51.10

Lynwood

Merl R. Felker, Junior WaTC!en
Edward M. Stitz, P.M. f:J Inspector....... -..... 51.10
John .0. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly ••...............•........_No;, 601Jarl D. Fonda, P.M. f:J Representative........ 32.72
Melrose ······-······-·····-·...No. 602....Edwln T. Church, Mas•-·-·-·················· · 51.10
William Gutcher, Senior Warden
Robert E. Smith, Junior Warden
Dimond ···············-·-·.....No. 603-Leonard McGilion. Master
Ray Fraser, Senior Warden
Jack A. Miller, Junior Warden
William H. Little, Past Master
George Shobl, Past Master
Jam.es J. Torrison, Past Master
Jubilee -···-·············-····---No. 604....Frank E . Dunn, Senior Warden.................... 53.50
John Kahler, Past Master
Glassell Park -·-······--··-"No. 605.... Donald A. Muchmore, Muter...................... 51.10
Frank W . Johnson, P.M. f:J Inspector............ 51.10
Sojourner ················--·-No. 607..-Rkhard H. Mosher, Senior Warden............ 52.64
Victor M. Clark, Junior Warden
Granada ...................- •._No. 608.•_Calvin E . Apperson, Senior Warden............ 51.10
H. Jay Purvis, Junior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, Asst. Grand Lecturer 52.20
Don S. Lemon, Past Master
Provident ···············-·········No. 609....Franklin A. McDonald, Senior Warden...... 7.64
Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master............ 7.64
Odia E. Howe, Past Master
Albert S. Walton, Past Master
Elmhurst .......•..................No. 610.... Norman Dransfield, Master
Luther A. Dawkins, Senior Warden
Atillio A. Damele. Junior Warden
Carl E. Boorman, Past Master
·
John T. Young, Pa:st Master
Canoga .••............•............•~No. 611....C. Oyde Matthews, Mater............................ 51.10
William P. Forbes, Jr., Senior Warden
.
Temple Oty ·············-·····No• 612....Merle F. Logue, Senior Warden..._............... 51.10
Conrad B. Wallburger, Junior Warden
Charles M. Coffland, P.M. f:J Inspector...... 51.10
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
'Three Pillars ....................No. 613.. ..Ashley R. Crooker, M.ter-···-·-·················· 7.64
Theodore L. Piazza, Senior Warden
Geor'f:oF. Packard, Junior Warden
7.64
veil, P.M. & lnspectw.._...................
Sam
Miles J. McClelland, P.M. f:J Inspector........ 7.64
Larchmont ·····-·············-··No. 614....J:t~:~ ~!J~:=~r ~~~~························· · 51.10
Edward Young, Junior Warden
~:~m1'<:~~1~d~ p~ f:J Inspector.............. 51.10
Ma*r...................... 51.10
•
Herbert H. Cooper, Past Master
D. lia;old Shoopman, Past Master

I' GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

477

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

'476

Name of Lodce
No. of Lod1e

Name of Lodce

Repruentativea

Mileaae Allowed

warren G. Hardfng_..•.- ..No. 579-f~ ~~~;;~:..................
·

Conrad E. Ht!rrmann, Junior Warden
John M. Lee, Senior Grand Steward..............
Henry_ R. Brown. Past Master
Carl W . Brainard, Past MastetPeter A. Stenber9. Past Master

1.64
7.64

Santa Marla _..•...............No. 580•.-~:i~ ~)~ls~:.WW~;~···-··········· 63.84
Security -·········-··-··-No. S81_Harry E . Weatherholt, Master...................... 36.70
James A. Dalley, Junior Warden
Leonard T. Jl!'Dkins, Past Master
Ken P. Sward. Past Master
Rialto -··-·-············--No. 582..-Jack H. Krause, Senior Warden.................... 55.62
Chas. C. Hamden, Junior Warden
Wasco -----.-··-·.No. S83__ Phillip R. Cameron, Senior Warden.............. 32.60
Horace A. Grisso, Junior Warden
Fred C. Pritschke, P.M. & lmpector............ 32.60
Harry H. Pollock, Past Master
Harding -·-···················-·No. 584....Robert H. Mason. Senior Warden................ 51.10
William H. Errett, Junior Warden
Anson McArthur, P.M. & Inspector.............. 51.10
Melvin A. Pixley, Past Master
Manchester ............... __...NG. 585...•Judsoo T . Sparks, Master___.................:... 51.10
Richard E. Snyder, Senior Warden
Elmer R. Lotz, P.M. & Inapec:tcr.................. 51.10
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Muter
Garden Grove ·······---·····No· 586....James Cecil Huston, Master............................ 53.50
Valley Forge •........•~····-···No• 587....George W. Fogg, Muter....................·-······· 51.10
Ray H. Alexander, Senior Warden
Chas. S. Barrett, Past Miaster
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
Leslie S. Wayman, Past Master
El Sereno -··"-··--·-··-No• 588....George E . Enell, Master--···················· ··· 51.10
Charles K. Wagner, Senior Warden
Richard B. W&d, Past Master
Kauai -········-···········-No. 589....Hector McDonald Moir,
Master, Acting I~ector. attending by
direction of the Grand Mash?r.................. 371.80
William B. Salsbury, Senior Warden.......... 371.80
Sau Yee Chang, Past Master
Compass •.:...·-··-··············-·No. 590.._Philip S. Hunt, Senior W arden...................... 54.08
William S. Hambly, Junior Warden
Eac:alon -·--····-·-···········No. 591.._0harles Noden. Master.................................... 7.94
Wallaoe S. Nelson, Senior Warden
Harry P. Rivinius, Junior Warden
Tujunga --·······-···············No. 592.._Gerald M. Trisler, Master..~........................... 51.10
William E . Howell, Jr., Senior Warden
All States -·-·-··'"-····No. 593-..Frank R. Spencer, Muter...._........................ 51.10
Bums N . Nickerson, Senior Warden
Service -··-···················No. 594....Kenneth Edward Carmichael, Master............ 51.10
William Everett Moller, Senior Warden
Ralph Frank Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell...No. 595_Don F. Nisbet. Senior Warden.................... 51.10

:r

Guardian -······-········-·No. 596.·-ID~l=~ J=:eli. ~:::!\v~d~~-·············· 5uo
Robert H. Coker, Past Master
Walter Nisewaner, Past Master
Frank J. Vieira, Past Master

No. of Lodge

Repreoentati-

Mlleap All-d

Pearl Harbor ··············-···No. 598....Earle W. Hughes, Master....................•.·-····· 350.90
C.arl E. Williams, Past Muter
599_..IJr. Harold R. Benedict, Muter-·-······-······· 52.20
Carmelita
Charles L. Loos, Senior Warden
Harrison R. Baker, Jr., Junior Warden
Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Dr. J. Tyler Parker, Jr., Past Master
Milton J. Seidel, Past Master
Lynwood ··········-·-·····--·No. 60<>-.~a!'o~~lf~~·;..w~········-····· 51.10

--·---·--··-...No·

Merl R. Felker, Junior Warden
Edward M. Stitz, P.M. & Inspector.......-..... 51.10
John D. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly ·-······················-~ 601...-Earl D. Fonda, P.M. & Representative........ 32.72
Melrose ······--·········----No. 602..-Edwln T. Church, Mas•····---·················· · 51.10
William Gutcher, Senior Warden
Robert E. Smith, Junaor Warden
Dimond ···············-··-·--.No. 603....Leonard McGihon, Master
Ray Fraser, Senior Warden
Jack A. Miller, Junior Warden
William H . Little, Past Master
George Shokal. Past Master
James J. Torrison, Past Master
Jubilee -··················-··..--No. 604....Frank E. Dunn, Senior Warden.................... 53.50
John Kahler, Past Master
Claasell Park ··--····----~No. 605....Donald A. Muchmore, Master...................... 51.10
Frank W . Johnson, P.M. & lnspedor............ 51.10
Sojourner -··········-····-·--No. 607.-Richard H. Mosher, Senior Warden............ 52.64
Victor M. Clark, Junior Warden
Granada ··-··-···········-··-No. 6Q8__Calvin E. Apperson, Senior Warden. ........... 51.10
H. Jay Purvis, Junior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, Asst. Grand Lecturer 52.20
Don S. Lemon, Past Master
7.64
Provident ···············-·········No. 609 .. _Franklin A. McDonald, Senior Warden......
Leslie E. W cxxl. Past Grand Master............ 7.64
Odia E. Howe, Past Master
Albert S. Walton, Past Master
Elmhurst .......................•_No. 610....Nonnan Dransfleld, Master
Luther A. Dawkins, Senior Warden
Atillio A. Damele, Junior Warden
Carl E. Boorman, Past Master
·
John T. Young, Past Master
Canoga ........................... -~No. 611..-C. Oyde Matthews, Muter..........-................ 51.10
William P. Forbes, Jr., Senior Warden
Temple Oty ·············-·····No; 612....Merle F. Logue, Senior Warden.·-··············· 51.10
Coo.tad B. Wallburger, Junior Warden
Charles M. Coffland, P.M. & Inspector...... 51.10
~ C. Curtis, Past Master
y R. Crooker, Master-···-·-·················· 7.64
Three Pillars ....................No. 613..
Theodore L. Piaua, Senior Warden
GeorY:F. Packard, Junior Warden
7.64
vell, P.M. & Inspector.._...................
Sam
Miles J. McClelland, P.M. & Inspector........ 7.64
Larchmont ·····- ·············-··No. 614....Harvey Mylander, Master.............................. 51.10
Harvey Hill, Senior Warden
·
Edward Young, Junior Warden
George P. Salm, P.M. & Inspector.............. 51.10
Newcomb Condee, Past Muter...................... 51.10
Herbert H. Ciooper, Past Master
D. Ha,old Shoopman, Past Master

478
Name of Locfae

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodae

llepreaentati¥a

t'

Mileaae A~

Hemet --·-···-·-··....No· 615....Hubert J, Raymond, Master..·-········---- 60.58
Robert C. Wilson, Senior Warden
Ray R. Bell, P.M. & Inspector......... ~-······-· 60.58
R. E. Dolley_........_........No. 616_Joe H. Tancre, MaM.er---······························· 51.10
Bruce C. Hall, Senior Warden
Big Bear
..No.617_G. A. Stokes, Senior Warden....................._ 57.92
R. K. Bacon, Past Master
L. P. Boyle, Past Master
Southland
·-·No. 618....Raymond M. Hargus. Master--·······-······"!"- 51.10
Clarence Lee Adair. Junior Warden
John A. Crosbie, P.M .. & Impector.............. 51.10
William F. Gallin, Past Master
C. Arthur Linsley. Past Master
John W. Street, Past Master
Neptune -···-··--···----No. 619.._Victor I. McCarty, Muter...·-·····-················· 51.10
Charles L. Jackson, Jr.. Smior Warden
Point Loma ---····---No. 620._Meredith W. Goldstein, Senior Warden...... 60.84
John E. Naylor, Junior Warden
l-larold K. Rankin. Past Master
The Gardens ··-····---~.No. 621_Wayne L. Watson, Master•.......·-················· 51.10
Will A. Hinson, Senior Warden
J. Norman Roberts, Junior Warden
Mason G. Frazer, Past Master
Floyd S. Vandegrift, Past Master
Atwater ---·····--·-··No. 622 .._Gharles F. Chapman, Muter_...................... 51.10
Bari R. Johnson, Senior Warden
Lewis C. Arbogast, Past Master
Frederick H. Chapman, Past Master
S. Myrle Cloyed, Past Master
Itrenorah .._.--·······---No. 623....Nathan H. Shipper, Mast.er·-·······-·············;.. 51.10
Norman B. Frankfort, Senior Warden
·
Samuel J. Greenberg, Past Master
Harry P. Ritchie, Past M=ister
Herman I. 'faylor, Past Master
George M. W amer, Past Master
Fortitude ···-····-·····---·No. 624....George W. Oliver, Master
Russell G. Worth, Senior Warden
Edward L. Bacher, Junior Warden
Alfred L. C.OSta, Past Master
Clarence M. Langlo, Past Master
Ralph M. Webb, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ·•··---····--No, 625....Geol"ge W. Meehlels, Maater..............·-·····- 51.10
Lowell M. Ayers, Senior Warden
Clyde E. Pratt, Junior Warden
George C. Culuris, Past Master
Gordon S. Duncan. Past Master
Walter L. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista -·-·-·-····-No. 626•._Samuel L. Brinkley, Senior Warden.............. 60.84
Michael Della-Rocco, Junior Warden
John H. Greife, Past Master
Lud L. Handley, Past.Master
Charles E. Smith, Past Master
Lamanda Park ..•.•.....•.......No. 627....~~ii~S:~·w;<l~·-····--······ 52.20
Truth --···----··~·--··No. 628..-Leland Roberts, Senior Warden.................... 51.10
Richard E. Moore, Junior Warden
Oskar Eugene Kopperud, Past Master

Name of Lodae

Fairview

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. of Lod11e

llepraentativea

479
Mileaae Allo-d

--·······-----·..No. 629....lf~~rs~n~H~~:;;·w;;d~-;;····..······ 51.10

Thomas M. Widick, Junior Warden
Arthur W. Billings, Past Master
John E. Comley, Past Master
Ben L. Irwin, Piast M=ister
Harold C. Mudgett, Past Master
Ingleside ......,..._______ ,_No. 630....Hilman H. Baker, Master
Melvin H. Gott, Senior Warden
Phil S. Tolman, Junior Warden
Henry C. Clausen, Grand Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, P.G.M., Grand Secretary
Dr. William E. McCormack, Grand Oiaplain
John D. Miller, P.M. & Inspector
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Charles W. Coles, Past Master
Rolf K. Evans, Past Master
Robert M. Gane, Past Master
Edison K. Quick, Past Master
John E. Perry, Past Master
Paul F. Schmeltzer, Past Master
Harry S. Walker, Past Master
Harry L. Wilson, Past Master
Benevolence ···-····--·---No. 631....John E. Schlener, Senior Warden.................. 51.10
Robert A. Mazur, Junior Warden
Normal Heights ···-····-··No• 632....Albert C. Snell, Ma•---·-···-···--···- 60.84
Benjamin T. Salmon, Senior Warden
Bentley W. Buck, Past Master
Leland E. Kellerhouse, Past Master
Poinsettia ·----·······-·-·--··No. 633....Roy Walter Williams, Master...•...·-·······-··· H.60
William Clark Tanner, Senior Warden
R~t Jean Campbell, Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Grand Master........ 51.10
Guy S. Harts, Sr.. P.M. & Inspector_.......... H.60
Eugene Raymond Conley, Past Master
Conley Louis LaForce, Past Master
Arthur T'homas Mead, Past Master
Lloyd Mason Ryckman, Past Mlaster
Victorville ··········-·······:.•..No. 634....John J. Garrison, Master....·-·········-················ 59.04
Frank S. Fairbanks, Senior Warden
Riverside ··-·--··__No• 635.. _Charles B. Van Horten, Jr., Master..- ..._....... 56.04
W. Hovvard Hughes, Senior Warden
Lewis S. Snyder, Junior Warden
Gordon F. Black. Past Master
Charles H. Grace, Past Master
Nadell E. Jensen, Past Master
John Marshall ···-···-····-No. 636...Arleigh R. Crow, Malter......-·············-·······- 51.10
Chester C. Davies, Senior Warden
Clyde B. Austin, Past Master
Atwill Morgan, Past Master
Richaro A. Peterson, Past Master
Palisades -·-·-'···-·····-······No. 637....E. Ray Koegler, Malll!I'..---··················-······ 51.10
Harry W. Flanders, Senior Warden
John C. Boggs, Past Master
Ira D. Wheeler, Past M~ter
Indian Rock ···········-··-···No. 638....Wallace Saxon Cordray, Master
Ross Cummings, Senior Warden
Royce Nunn Welch, Junior Warden
Wallace D. McAllister, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

480
Name of Loclac

No. ol Loclse

llcprC1Cntativa

Mll•&e Allawed

Master.................••..._...... 51.10
.No. 639....Alvin M.M.Mazure,
Com osite
Silverman, Senior Warden
Bernard
···········-· ···-····
p
Louis M. Bloch, Past Master
McLemore, Senior Warden
Floyd Oliver
640
No
Ward, Junior W ·a rden
Duncan
...•
Veritas -··-·-···· ··········- · •
Irving John Kohnke, Past Master
Washin gton Irving Kohnke, Past Master ,
Oscar Wendel Norman, Past Master
Warden ......... -. 51.10
Sunner,
C.W.
nneth ne
641....Ke
No
--'-F
Junior Warden
A.
Scott, Senior
Melbour
James
.,.......y.............. •
, Master..... - ............... i2.22
No 642....Jesse Murrell Sheegog
La Cumb
Le Ro S. Pinkham, P.M. & Inspector........ i2.22
re ····-······· ·-····· •
ch, Master............................ 51.10
No. 6i3.•.. Paul 1F .Ziegelas
Al Lo
Edwin Borchard. Senior Waroen
ma ·········- - ········
ta
Wlll'den.-············- 51.10
Lomita ··-·······················N o. 6-ti.. _Paul 0. Russell, Senior
....·-················· 51.10
Warden
Senior
Walker,
E. J.W.
No•645 ....W.
A. F . E .···.__,_
Warden
Junior
Jr.,
,
Garrison
············
uww---·W . H. Dahlquist, Past Master
...·-··························- 51.10
Master
Blozan,Past
Fred
M tro litan ···-···············N o ' 646.._N.
Master
Everett.
Frank
e po
Howard W. Lange, Past Master
Theodo re Tudor, Representative
Senior Warden .................. 51.10
Cornelius tFrielcls,
No. 647....Olen
Hawtho-e
Trevath an, Junior Warden
John A. Owen. P.M. & Inspector.................. 51.10
Raymond F. Benjamin, Pallt Master
Marcus A. Woodw ard, Past Master
L. MicZanko, Master................ ...... 55.62
.No 648....Edwar d L.
Damasc ...
Mudgett, Senior Warden
Maurice
•
- ·--···-·······-·
John Bright, P.M. & Inspector· -·················· 55.62
Lawrence L. Nichols, Past Master
F. Fully, Master.................................. 51.10
Ernest
....
6i9
.No.
Florence ··-·- ·"········- ·······
George IJsk. sentor Warden
Woodro w Cavanau gh. Junior Warden
.............. .................. 51 .10
F.rancis c.. Ford, Master..
La Brea -········- ·······- ···No' 650....John
R. Christian, Senior Warden
George N. Burch, Jr., Past Master
Hugh J. Cameron. Past Master
Charles F. Laverty , Past M&ter
Russell R. Lee, Past Master
W . James M:ann. Past Master
John W. Swank, Past Master
Warden ............ 3.3i
Christiansen, Junior
No 651 .RobertHodge,
P.M. & Representative
···Royal
Menlo Park ······---·········· '
David Wright, Past Master
Warden .................. 51.10
James R. Young, Senior
....
652
.No
11
V
Henry M. Welch, Junior Warden
•
Crescenta a ey ·-········
55.14
A. Banning, Muter_........- ·-········. No 653.._William
· ·
Mel H. Flood, Senior Warden
Fontana ···-··-·- - ·-········· '
S. Cleveland. Master--·-····- ···--····· 51.10
No 654.._Clyde
Hugh G. P;mgborn. Senior Warden
'
Jordan ·····-····- ····-···········--····-·····-················ 51.10
Bennett. n,Master
R. Jorgense
.No. 65L.J.
Warden
Senior......
Earl
Monte ista ·-- ···········Warden .......-. 53.10
- ·--········-··---No. 656__James C. Wil~iamson, Senior
Qtrol
Linderman. Maater..........·-········· 60.M
No. 657..-Frands M.
recltela
O
John M. Frenzel, Senior Warden
····----·
John • P
George A. McDaniel, Junior Warden
Horace H Blair, Past Master
Master.............................. 10.72
No. 658.. _Norman G. Gross,
.
J. W. Doane, Senior Warden
Llvmgston --··-····- --··---··-............ 53.10
La Habra - ·- - -- ··-·No. 659-Ha rold Merval Dick. Senior Warden

C.

•M

v

S

· ·· · · · · · · · ·· · · ·· · · · -

481

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA
Name of Lodge

No. ol Locl1e

Repreecntativea

Milca1e Allo-d

Warden ........
Baldwin Park ............-No. 660-Ro bert Julius Norman, Senior
Harold Carl Ballenger, Junior Warden
Fred L. Ferguson, Sr.. P.M. & Inspector....
Malta ····-···--············--------No. 661....Not Represented
Piper. Master....·-····--··············-···
Henry Knox --··········· -···No. 662....DonaldR.A.Wolf,
Senior Warden
Edwin
William Treat Alling, Junior Warden
Alfred F. Bau11.hn. Past Master
Dr. Ralph F. Coops, Past Master
Paul R. Nkhols, Past Master
..............................
Ojai ------·············--·--·-----No. 663._James E. Collins, Master..
Merrill R. Shelley, Senior Warden
Clyde E. Harral, Past Master
Warden ..................
Kaweah ····- ··-··········---..;...No. 665 ....Dolpho H. Beam, Senior
Ollie F. Justice, Junior Warden
........ - ....................
Reseda -··············-····-··---·No. 666....Claude A. Tuttle, ,Master
William J. Fels.burg Senior Warden
'
Master........ ·- ···················
Meridian ··········- ···-······-..No. 667.. _Harold E. Moody,
Clifford M. Farrell, Senior Warden
Daris L. Abarta, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Rast Grand Master..............
Frank W. Raddatz, P.M. & Inspector..........
Warden ........
San Gorgonlo .................. No. 668_ Horace L. Roberts, Jr.. Senior
Myrl R. Doolittle, Junior Warden
Warden ......
John P. Jarman.................. No. 669....Marcus William Wood, Senior
William Henry Reed, Junior Warden
Herbert Pritchard, Past Master
..........- ........... -...............
Greenleaf --·····-··· ············N o. 670-Jo e S. Davis, Muttt
Harold A. Butler, Senior Warden
Hugh M. Topping , P.M. & Inspector..........
Warden............
San Clemente ······- ·- ·-···No. 671....David H. Blakelock, Senior Warden
John Marshall Miller, Junior
..................
Laguna Beach - ··········- No. 672....Jack Hodgkinson, SenJor Warden
W. Ben Sorrells, P.M. & lmpector..............
Far West - -···-···········-----No. 673....Earl B. Myers, Master
Herman E. Bickel, Senior Warden
William C. Kunz, Junior Warden
N. Walter Anderson, Past Master
Caspar A. Bachtold, Past Master
Ian T. Kay, Past Master
Walter Luhchenko, Past Master
Rowland Mason, Past Master
Fred E. Munson , Past Master
George Quamby, Rast Master
Al Sandell, Past Master
............................
Los Cerritos ··········- ··- ·--No. 674.. _Howard Goldblatt, Malter..
Jack Hoffman, Senior Warden
Sam E. Leddell, Past Master...........-.............
Arthur J. Sissons, Past Master
..................
Modesto .........................-No. 675....Wayne F. Betty, Junior Warden ................
Willow Glen ·-··············--No. 676.._George C. Glenndennlng, Mast.er..
John D. Webster , Senior Warden................
Harold S. Medo, Junior Warden
Conrad E. Hale, Past Master
Thornto n D. Webster , Past Master
Muter..-..............................
Liberal Arts - ·- -··-········-No. 677....Elmer H. Mills. Junior
Warden
James G. Heagy,
Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master..........
Elvin C. Drake, P.M. & ~--············ ····
Frank H. Reinsch, Past MaSter
Richard Webster , Past Master

51.10
51.10
51.10

H.68
32.22
51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10
58.58
4.12
52.38
51.10
55.9i
5-t.3i
5i.3i

51.10
51.10
8.76
i .12
5.12

51.10
51.10
51.10

482
Name of Lodge

'

No. of Lodge

Rcpreaentatlva

483

GRAND LODGE OF CALlPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allo.,.ed

Altadena ················-····'-·No. 678....Gus L. Phillips, Master...·-··-···········-·············
Ules N. Herndon, Senior Warden
Burton W. Gilmore, Junior Warden
Austin H. Hazard, Past Master
Verner A. Jacobson, Past Master
Francis J. Willcox, Past Mastl'I'
Canby Cross ............•.....•.No. 679....DeRoy Simpson. Senior Warden..................
Benjamin R. Wilson, Junior Warden
Carmel ····-····-·············-·-No• 680....Claude Donald Sands, Senior Warden..........
Gordon C. Browne, Representative
Dos Palos •·-·····-·····-····-No. 681....Roy J. Howard, Master..·-·····························
Mendell M. Roberts, Senior Warden
Roy H. Howard, Junior Warden
Richard D. Crowe, Past Master
Glenn C. Holmes, Past Master......................
Barstow ····--····------1'10. 682 ....William E. Raley, Senior Warden................
Dorse K. Fissell, Past Master
Redwod Empire ···--··-No. 683.... Not Represented
Trona ···---······-··---No. 684....Willis E. Ray, Mester..............·-·····················
Lynn A. Blackmun, P.M. & Inspector............
Hardin I. Lineback. Past Master
San Marino ·-··········---No. 685...•Ralph L. Gorman, Master................................
Roy_L. Herndon, Senior Warden
G. Wesley Parr, Junior Warden
William J. Williams, P.M. & Inspector
George R. Friederich, Past Master
Albany ···--·-····-········-No. 686.... Harold W. Swanson, Master
Cleetus K. Lockwood, Senior Warden
Mason Young, Junior Warden
Ambrose Ray Graham, Past Master
Vista --··········-----·__No• 687.._Andrew H. Chung, Senior Warden..............
Jack R. Brenan, Past Master
Oildale ··········--···-·····-··No. 688.._Harley Tera! Pinzon, Master...-.....................
Robert Bertram Briles, Senior Warden
Ernest Emmerson Calkins, Junior Warden
Pohona ···-···········--···--No. 689....E. Ross Bayliss, Master
Don B. Christensen, Senior Warden
San Carlos ·········-·-··········No. 690••.•Charles F. Hill, Muter·-·--····························
Forrest R. Hassell, Senior Warden
Stephen M. Roberts, Junior Warden
Earl R. Crawford, Past Master
Ferd Prince, Past Master
Walter C. Simon, Past Master
Indian Wells Valley........No. 691....Ralph G. Hough, Master·--···-···-·········-·-·
. James A. Davis, Senior Warden
Travelers -···········----No. 692....James E. Oliphant, Master-······-·················•·
E. Lee Fowler, Senior Warden
Alfred E. Gebbett, Junior Warden
Palm Springs ····-··---······No. 693_William P. Aikin. Muter--·-··························
Rayt!!ond M. Sorum, Senior Warden
C. j. Burket, Junior Warden
Frederick A. Morrison. Past Master
San Antonio _________ No. 69i....Kenneth M. Harris, Master.....-.....................
George 0. Alger, Junior Warden
Robert Collier, Past Master
Meudell ····-···-···············No• 695....Frank Charles King, Muter..........................
Marvin Hunter Almond, Senior Warden
Gunnar Pettersen, Junior Warden
MacDowell Gardner, Grand Sword Bearer..

52.20

50.06
11.16
23.14

25.50
45.22
47.48
47.48
52.20

58.36
36.70

28.70

45.88
7.64
59.84

51.10
36.70
36.70

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lod1e

Rcpreaentatlva

Mileap Allowed

Crossroads ··--···-···-··-No. 696.....Edwdn J. Bower, Senior Warden..................
Ray Hatch, Junior Warden
F. S. Firkins, Past Master
St. Elmo -··-··-·-··---~ 697....Laurence Abbott Lowell, Master
James Sammy Pursley, Junior Warden
Robert Hackett Burrows, Past Maater
William D. Stephens...•..••No. 698....James B. Finney, Master..................... ·-----·-···
Richard R. Kennedy, Senior Warden
William W. Hwnilton, Junior Warden
Arch L. Field, Past Master
Vierling: Kersey, Past Master
Ralph G. Ritchie, Past Master
John X. Turk, Past :Master
Bixby Knolls -·-···--No. 699_James M. Rucker, Mastl!I'-----··-····-··Gerald A. Brown, Senior Warden
Herbert Lee Chase, Past Master
Ponderosa --·-·----.No. 700••-James G. Huggins, Senior Warden........·-·····
Joseph A. Dailey, Junior Warden
Glen C. Harnish, Sr., Past Master
Santa Ynez Valley......-.No. 701..•.Earl A. Buell, Senior Warden.____..............Glenn F. Wiest, Junior Warden
Rosemead ··-····----···-No. 702....Grover C. Wall, Senior Warden..·-·············
Westchester -··········-····No. 703....Thomas J. Dekker, Muter..............................
Walter H. Anderson, Senior Warden
Warren J. Dowell, Jumor Warden
J. Fred Davidson, Past Master
t. Melvin Hall, Past Master
James L. Miles, Past Master
Orinda ··-·····-··-···---No. 704....Vernon Patterson, Master.·-·-······················
Stewart Wade, Senior Warden
Martin J. Lewis, Junior Warden
Wilbur D. Crosby, Past Muter....................
S. G. Culver, Past Master
M. Blaine De Leshe, Past Master
Richard Floegel, Past Master
El Cerrito ····-·-····---No. 705....Ralph P. Partridge, Senior Warden
Robert H. Ballance, Past Master
Gene C. Otwell, Past Master
John L. Wixon, Past Master
Hunters Point Naval......No. 706.... Frank C. Stewart, Master
Cecil F. Armstrong, Junior Warden
Rodger S. ShOUl', Senior Warden
Lake Tahoe -···-····--..No. 707....James G. Bell, Master.......·--····-···········-······
Leonard S. Robinson. Senior Warden
Philip M. Bernhardt, Junior Warden
Seafaring ..........
No. 708....Ray Nielsen, Master·-·----·--···-··-····-·
0. E. White, Jr., Senior Warden
Lester A. Smith, Junic:r Warden
Lorenzo ··········-···----No. 709...•Crist H. Burkhalder, Master
Lawrence C. Bourland, Sr., Senior Warden
Woodrow H. Patterson. Junior Warden
Edward C. Will, P.M. & Inspector
Linford W. Hunter, Past Master
John F. Stevens, Past Master
Anacapa ··--····-·····-·-No. 710...James A. Lee, Senior Warden........................
Sherman Sampson, Junior Warden
Rim of the World............No. 711..-Vemon Burkett, Master.•................................
Dale J. Smith, Senior Warden
Burch O. Brown, Junior Warden
Thomaa E. Schrey, Past Master

60.84

51.10

51.10
27.52
44.22
51.10
51.10

1.30
1.30

30.30
53.50

i5.i4
57.12

484
Name ol Locfee

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. ol Lod1e

~~£1~·-··········--No. 734....Lloyd F. Cole, Junior Warden......................

~pruentativa

Loa Altoa --.-·--·No. 712.. _Donald Earl Reinoehl, Master-··-····-·-·····- 3.74
Roy Marion Denham, Jr., Senior Warden
.
Milton Le Roy Gagnon. JUDior Warden
John W. Stout, Past Master
Castro Valley ·--···········No. 713....Carroll W. Ferguson, Master
Roy D. Stoecker, Senior Warden
Edmund W. Silverfoote, Junior Warden
Carl F. LaVo, P.M. f:J Inspector
John B. Barrone, Past Master
Blue Lakes ···········-···········No. 714 ....Manson J. Hilton, Master
Gordon E. Robinson, Junior Warden
Magnolia Park ··-·····-·-No. 715 .... Sidney E. Costello, Senior Warden.............. 51.10
Jeremiah G. Staples, Junior Warden
Belmont Shore ···--···-···No• 716.... Harvey William Trueman, Master....·-····--· 51.10
Nat Frank, Senior Warden
Harry G. VanDenburgh, Junior Warden

~~~-s ~~~~Rt'~s~~--~~~~~---··················· 52.38
7.50

Wayfarer --·-·-···-··--·No· 717....
San Lorenzo Valley.___ No. 718....Ernest L. Smith, Master-·--····-·················
Jack H. Diggins, Senior Warden
Harry L. Worley, Junior Warden
Robert H. Ludlow, Past Master
Estero ................................No. 719....James T. Moore, Junior Warden. ...................
Mineral King .........•........No. 720....KeMeth G. Cairns, Muter..·-·························
Home ·····-·-·-········-····--No. 721 ....Marius Thisted, Senior Warden....................

31.58
31.22
51.10

George E. Tutt................_No. 722..

4.82

~;~·-··-···················
-~~;stS!~i=.r
Harold C. Loder, Senior Warden

George D. Stroop>e, Junior Warden
Thomas E. Daugherty, Past Master
Acalanes ·--·--No. 723....Bayard H. Burnett, Master........................... .
Donald H. Fibush, Senior Warden
Thomas C. Pauli, Junior Warden
San Ramon Valley..·-···-·No. 724....L. B. Von Wald, Junior Warden................. .
Saint John's --··············-··No. 725...Emil M. Bergh. Senior Warden................... .
E. C. Nevins, Past Master
Martin H. Quinn. Peat Master
Yucaipa --·····-·········-··No· 726....Roy B. Lawrence.~--·-·-·····················
William L. Greenwood, Senior Warden
Verdugo Hills ..................No. 727....Ariel C. Harris, Master........·-·······················
Samuel E. Register, Senior Warden
Phillip B. Sticoe, Pat Master
Lakewood -·-·····--··-No. 728-.Pred B. Gray, Master---·························
Curtis N. E. Alwine, Senior Warden
Kienneth L. Hemphill, Past Master
Centennial ·········-······-···-No. 729_Richard E. Blum, Master---····-·············
Kenneth A. Wllltam.s, Senior Warden
Polaris ---·········-····__No. 730-Chas. V. Shaffer, Master·-·······-····················
James A. Na.sh, Senior Warden
Jack G. Switzer, Junior Warden
Robert A. Baumheckel, Past Master
Two Rivers ··-·-·-__No. 731-Claude B. Riles, Muter-··-··-························
Frank Creswell, Junior Warden
San Juan ·····-···-··-__No. 732-Gerald Davis, Master......................................
·
Fred Boltres, Senior Warden
John Owens, Junior Warden
Norman Langness, Past Master
Golden Empires ··-··-No. 733-Albert A. Andersoo, M8*1'.--··-····-··Frank J. Wiseman, Senior Warden
Robert K. Titus, Junior Warden
Joseph Robinson, Past Master .

1.50

2.00
1.70
56.74
51.10
51.10
51.10
7.64

51.10
7.64

7.64

··············-·No. 735....Ben H. Bailey, Master...:----···················
Kenneth S. Carter, Senior Warden
Lemon Grove ·····----..No. 736....Thomas E. Parsons, Master--·-···········-·
John B. Dail, Senior Warden
Henry G. Jensen, JUDior Warden
William E. Rife, Past Master
Hillsborough ···············--·No. 737.... Milford B. Armstrong, Master
George H. Christensen, Senior Warden
Ernest H. Baack, Junior Warden
Arvin -·-········-········--·-No. 738.... Harold R. DeTunco, Master..-...................
Durward B. Hop-e, Senior Warden
Thomas D. Downs, Junior Warden
J~~~.~-w-~•n•nmn
La Canada ••m--m-•m-No. 739....
1s o

=

Leonard Percy Shelley.Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, P.M. f:J lmpector._.........
Opportunity ···········---··No. 740.... Horace Earl Grant, Master.·--·······-····-···
CeRoy M. Rondot, Senior Warden
Tyre ·········-····--··--····No. 741....Robert R. Vaughn. Master..............................
Stanley H. Millers, Senior Warden
Robert H. Lamb, Junior Warden
Morningside Park ······-··No. 7~2.... Albert Ernest Linde, Master.....-·-·················
Emmett Alvah Rathbun, Senior Warden
Galvarino Alvarez, Junior Warden
Oakwood ..........................No. 7H....William B. Neeley, Master•.•..•.·-··················
Jerry J. Ritch, Senior Warden
L. P. Arnold, Junior Warden
Clarence E. Glaze, Past Master
San Leandro ····-········-···No. 7H.... Ed. Theile, Master
Clifton S. Johnson. Senior Warden
John W. Parker, Junior Warden
Peninsula ·-·······-·····--·No. 745.... Westley P. Jones, Master
Richard E. Giesin, Senior Warden
Soquel ···-··-·-····-············No. 746.... Alvin William Wendt, Master....·-···············
Jrnes Brown Scofield, Senior Warden

t11'ff!~~~J::-~~--··············

485
7.64
62.08
61.H

38.20
51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10

6.50

60.84
Claude H. Morrison. ....... No. 747....L::J
Alton F. Jackson. Senior Warden
Thomas L. Walston, Sr., Junior Warden
Highland -·······················No• 748....Guy W. Whelchel, Master-·--·······-··········· 55.62
Merced ....................•..... _No. 749....William C. Andersen, Junior Warden.......... 22.86
Mother Colony ................No. 750.... Warren C. Hodges, Masl!er............................ 53.50
1.60
Hamilton -··········-··-········No. 751.... Hugh E. Clever, Master·-·--········-·-······-··
Welter J. Lundblad. Senior Warden
Roy 0. York. Junior Warden
P. D. Sprague, Past Master
Luther Buri>ank ··-········-No. 752.... L. H. Dibble, Master·-·-··-········-······-···-·· 4.40
Lawndale ..-·--········-...No. 753.... Howard H. Arnold, Master-···--············-·-···· 51.10
San Pablo ........·-····-·····No. 75L.Joseph S. Alameda, Muter
Alfred L. Atwood, Senior Warden
Martin Wiltz, Junior Warden
Golden Bowl ....................No. 755.... Robert H. Coker, Master---··-······················· 51.10
James R. Coleman, Junior Warden
1.90
Clayton Valley ···-······-·-No. 756.... HaL Asa Mishler, Muter............·-·--···········
Otis Sanders Olson. Senior Warden
Channel ................................ U.D ..... Not Represented
West Covina ........................ U.D ..... Herbert Van Riper, Master.·-·······-..-··········· 51.10
Julius Leroy Forkey, Senior Warden
Herbert W. Meyerinck, Jr., Junior Warden
El Rancho ·····----··--···UD•.._Not Represented
TOTAL·-··················-··$28,840.90

~

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

00

°'

With Membership, Charter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments, Contributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita" Includes $2.25 for Grand Lodge plus 50c for Masonic Homes, and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Members Contributions" includes Homes Contribution of $25.00, G. W. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and California
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Statistic apply to the year ending July 31, A. L. 5955.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges (page 523).
Endow.
Members
6.L
Cherter
DeQrH
Affll.
Lodge

No.

1 c.aJ.ifornla · - - - - · - 1
2 Western Star ·············-- 2
3 Tehama ···----······-·····:. 3
4 Benlda ·············---··-····· 5
5 Tuolumne ············--··- 8
6 Corinthian ··-···············-- 9
7 San Jose ···-··-··--·····- 10
8 Yount ···········--····-···- 12
9 Nevada ········---·-·····--· 13
10 Temple ···----·-··-·- 14
11 Eureka -·-······-···············- 16
12 La Parfalte Union·······- 17
13 MountBln Shade ······-···· 18
14 San Joaquin -············-··- 19
15 Washington ··-···-·-·····- 20
16 Hawaiian ·-··--···--··-·- 21
17 Occidental ···--··-·········· 22
18 Madison .......•.................. 23
19 Maripom ···-·-'··-····- 24
20 Georgetown ··················- 25
21 El Dorado ···--········-···· 26
22 Trinity ····-···-··············· 27
23 Golden Gate ·······-··········· 30
24 Gold Hill -·····-···········- 32
25 Ophir ·-····---·-···-··-······ 33
26 San Diego ···········-··-·····- 35
27 Howard ............................ 37

Members

531
172
809
236
248
458
• 544
568
176
238
356
125
51
840
865
459
703
326
201
63
273
141
652
120
83
1063
255

luued

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854

Feu

100
65
100
75
75
50
75
165
50
75
50
100
50
80
75
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50
50
80
50

Feu

lnlt.

DuH

20.00
6.00
10.00

12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12

...........
2.00

----·-·
5.00
6.00

-···-

2.00

.............
15.00

-----

---10.00
10.00
25.00

..............
...... -5.00

----·
5.00

10.00
1.00
4.00

..............
1.00

Paued

Raised

Per C.plte

Contrlb.

Contrlb.

9
4
23
4
6
14
14
10
8
9
13

1452.25
476.25
2286.75
652.00
696.25
1291.50
1521.00
1516.75
486.00
673.25
996.75
343.25
141.25
2357.50
2430.75
1275.75
1932.00
909.50
563.25
182.25
751.75
402.75
1806.75
339.25
223.00
2972.00
711.25

320.00
270.00
760.00
175.00
455.00
550.00
515.00
400.00
245.00
375.00
515.00
165.00
...............
540.00
830.00
260.00
350.00
165.00
105.00
105.00
350.00
165.00
480.00
210.00
165.00
942.00
525.00

1150.00
272.00
1975.58
192.50
149.50
255.50
295.50
241.00
73.50
94.40
84.00
211.50
42.50
324.00
1454.00
921.00
430.00
108.00
466.00
77.00
627.41
119.50
795.63
45.50

9
6
18
5
9
14
19
9
9
8
10
1
1
29
21
6
9
5
7
3
13
6
15
3
6
37
14

7
7
21

5
13
15
14
10
7
10
14
4
........

14
23
6
10
4
3
3
10
4
13
6
4
25
15

····-

32
19
7
10
4
6
3
11
5
16
3
4
39
14

4451.75
31.00

28 Santa Cruz -·-··············- 38
29 Sacramento --············-···· 40
30 Martinez -·-···-·····-······· 41
31 Los Angeles ---·············- 42
32 Hiram --······--··-··-····· 43
33 Mount Moriah ···········-··· 44
34 Crescent ····--············-···· 45
35 Texas -----··-················ 46
36 Forbestown ...................... 50
37 Illinolstown ········-·········· 51
38 Suisun --··-··-················· 55
39 Volcano ···········--··-····· 56
40 Santa Rosa ···-················ 57
41 Union ··-···········-·····-··· 58
42 Gravel Range ···········-····· 59
43 Plumas ............................ 60
44 Live Oak ·············--·-··· 61
45 Natoma ···········-··-··········· 64
46 Amador -······-····-·-···· 65
47 Forest ·-··-··············-··-··· 66
48 Morning Star ·-·-············ 68
49 Enterprise ···········-·-······ 70
50 Bear Mountain ....•..........• 76
51 Calaveras ···················-··· 78
52 Humboldt ······················- 79
53 Ione ----·······-····-··- 80
54 Yolo ··-················-·········· 81
55 Vesper-·····-······-··-·····- 84
56 Naval ·--·····-···············- 87
57 Rose's Bar ···········-··-····- 89
58 North Star ···-····-···--···· 91
59 St Helena ·········-·-·······- 93
60 Henry Clay -··········-·- 95
61 Hornitoe ···············-····-··· 98
62 Yosemite ···-··-·······-·- 99
63 Clay ---·-·······-······-101

553
783
424
816
101
398
209
55
113
84
250
96
654
742
69
201
1012
292
86
23
662
370
73
120
517
90
104
246
1247
34
67
141
83
96
500
105

1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

80
75
75
100
75
100
125
50
50
60
75
50
75
75
50
75
75
75
50
50
100
50
50
85
75
50
50
100
75
50
50
50
60
55
50
50

1.00
10.00

--··
10.00
10.00
10.00
6.00
1.00
5.00

----

-----10.00
5.00
10.00

.............
2.50
25.00
5.00
5.00

·----··

...............

5.00
3.00
10.00

----·...............
---····

----10.00
5.00
5.00
1.00
........ -··
10.00

··-····

-······

12
15
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
16
12
12
12

20
12
13
40
1
8
13
1
6
........
7
3
19
22
3
4
15
21
2

19
13
12
44
1
9
12
1
5
. ......
8
4
15
23
3
3
14
22
2

.......

. .....

......

19
10

25
13
1
2
30
2
5
9
26
4
4
3
3
1
26
7

25
16
1
2
28
2
6
8
33
3
4
4
3
t
24
6

.......
3
29
3
7
9
17
4
4
3
1
1
21
7

23
· 14
15
38
1
9
12
1
3

-··

9
4
15
23
1
4
23
32
3

1536.00
2164.75
1206.00
2333.00
280.75
1106.75
603.50
151.50
316.50
231.00
692.25
269.50
1831.00
2031.50
180.25
561.00
2818.50
878.00
232.50
60.50
1878.50
1042.75
202.75
331.50
1492.25
254.50
304.00
699.75
3332.00
101.75
174.25
389.50
235.25
264.25
1421.25
300.50

750.00
495.00
480.00
1475.00
35.00
280.00
480.00
35.00
235.00
...................
245.00
105.00
690.00
770.00
105.00
145.00
550.00
770.00
70.00

422.00
271.00
40.00
304.50
117.00 .
110.00
126.50
297.50
1520.00
107.00
282.00
2240.00
592.00
58.50

690.00
350.00

1114.50
94.50

105.00
1015.00
105.00
245.00
315.00
655.00
165.00
140.00
105.00
35.00
35.00
760.00
270.00

104.01
210.00
36.66
48.00
74.00
1851.50
6.00

344.23
1575.50
458.63
1754.00

291.50
99.50
62.50
490.50
36.00

~

00

~

l.od9•

No.

64 Oroville ·-------103
.65 Lexington ·--···-·-···-···-lot
66 Arcata -··'·····-··---106
67 Pajaro ·-----------110
Ill
68 Chico ·--69 Summit ·-····----112
70 Eden -····--····-·--:~... 113
71 Concord _________117
72 Fidelity -·-·-·····-······---120
73 Alamo --··-····------122
74 Sotoyome -·-·----·----123
75 Table Mountain ·--·-··-121
76 Lafayette ·--·-··--·-·····-126
17 Hermann -········-·······-17:1
78 Visalia ··-·······-··-······--128
79 Nicolaus ············-··········.129
80 Woodbridge ·-·--···-.131
132
81 Sincerity -··
82 Vacaville ·---···--·---.134
83 Valley ·-···---··-······---135
84 Pacilk ·-·--··-·---·····136
85 Crockett ··-··-·-········---139
86 Curtis -·-···············-···-140
Ht
87 Grafton ··--·
88 Franklin -·····-···--··-.143
89 Oriental ·················-·······144
90 Vitruvius ··-··---··--·--145
91 Abell -··········-···-···---146
92 Eel River ··········---·-···147
93 Lassen ---···---···149
94 Molino --··----ISO
95 Woodland ··-······-··········-156
96 Keystone --··--···-···-161
97 Harmony -·-··----~16t

98 Excelsior -·--··--···-166
99 Alameda -----··-···167
100 Redwood Oty ···-·-········168
101 Mission
169
102 Elk Grove ····------113
103 Drytown ···----174
104 Antioch -----------115
105 PhoeniJ: ---····-----178
106 Mendocino ·········-·-····-179
107 Petaluma --···-····--·--180
108 Russian River ------181
109 Arbuckle ···--··-···182
110 Clear Lake -·-·--····-183
111 Sierra Valley ____:_______ 184
112 Claiborne ····--··-·----185
113 Evening Star ··--------186
187
114 Keith - - ·
115 Oakland - - - - - 1 8 8
116 Northern Light ............... .190
117 Marin -··--·-···-----191
118 Santa Barbara ···-----192
119 Ferndale ·---··-----193
120 Mountain View -··-·-····194
121 Buckeye ------195
122 San Simeon --·-·····--196
123 Wilmington ···············-···198
124 Hartley -··--·-··-·----199
125 Truckee ····--··-··----200
126 Silveyville ···-·-····-·---201
127 Pentalpha ··-····-----202
128 Con.fldence -·-·--·-·-203
129 Salinu ·--·-···-·-----20t
130 Olivet -·-···········--········-205
131 Stanislaus ······-·----206
1l't/
132 Anaheim - - ·
133 Rio Vista ·-··--·-···208

Memben

348
611
335
437
573
41
458
375
564
HI

218
243
227
199
563
102
186
100
227
100
584

557
85
116
138
375
128
324
248
250
165
295
30
30

488
194
640

675
143
58
362
698
124
347
127
86
100
40

13
62
187
928
92

558
358
97
354
139
92
641
237
130
164
512

57
618
126
648
441
169

Charter
luued

l>ec;irH
feel

1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864

50
150
100

1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
' 1867
1867
1868 .
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870

75
75
50
105

75
100

75
75
80
50
100

75
50
50
100
75
50
100

75
50
50

75
100
50
50
50
60
50
50
50
50

75
75
100
100
50
50

75
75
50
80

15
50
50
50
50
50
50
75
65
100

75
50
100

75
50
100
65
90
90
100

75
75
50

75
75
100

Aflll.

F5.00
LOO
LOO
..............
10.00
5.00

...............
10.00
15.00

----

5.00
1.00

-·-20.00

-----·
5.00
5.00
5.00
...............

12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
LOO

------·
--LOO
----·

-·--·
2.50
5.00

20.00
5.00
LOO
50.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

. ··- ---

5.00
1.00
10.00

..........._
5.00
........

---

2.00
1.00
5.00
l0.00

·----··
---··

5.00
5.00

.............

-······

10.00
I0.00
5.00
20.00

--··-··-----··
_..____
LOO

..... . ......

1

Dun

lnlt.

P•ued

Raised

12
12
12
18
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
15
18
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
18
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
16
12

lO
23
12
16
25
1
15
10
14
14

12
28
12
14
21
l
15
II
12
14

II
35
12
28
22
1
19
13
17
15

5

5
7
7
5

5
7
lO
6

9

7

12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
15
18
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
12
15
18
12
12
12

6.L
Per Capita

Members
Contrlb.

350.00
955.00
420.00
551.00
875.00
35.00
625.00
35G.OO
540.00
490.00
175.00
375.00
225.00
140.00
385.00
35.00
165.00
175.00
420.00
70.00
595.00
245.00
175.00
140.00
70.00
385.00
105.00
490.00
280.00
385.00
200.00
165.00
60.00

4
l

2
4
1

8
1
4
1

987.25
1766.25
954.50
1224.00
1553.00
115.75
1292.00
1054.25
1569.25
1250.25
600.75
68L25
632.50
554.00
1556.00
280.75
512.75
289.00
641.50
289.00
1566.75
1528.50
245.75
328.00
382.50
1044.50
360.00
930.75
705.00
699.75
448.00
806.75
82.75

----

----

----

82.50

3
12
29
15
4
1
15
28
6
10
1
3
3

4
11
22
15
6
1

9
12
26
17

1264.50
565.75
1779.25
1840.00
393.75
162.50
988.50
1926.75
346.00
962.25
348.00
24L50
282.00
110.00
219.00
175.50
538.25
2570.50
242.75
1554.75
992.25
272.75
985.50
380.25
256.25
1814.50
661.00
331.75
442.25
1424.25
162.00
1749.50
346.25
1829.00
1258.75
168.00

10

5
4
II
l
4

5
II
2
17

7
5
4
2
II
3
14
8
11

5

........

6
1
10
15
3
12
10
2
lO
4
2
22
3
8
3
7
2
23
4
19
17
.......

I

I

5
5

6
4
10
6
16
12
4
2

10
6
13
8
3
3
I
11

.......

3
17

2
17

7
7

7

II
24

7
10
3
1
2
. ......
8
2
7
16
4
17
13
2

5
3
2
22
4
6
2
6
3
23
3
17
14
.......

5

7
1
11
35
3
10
3
1
2

··-

7
2
7

15
2
16
15
2
8
2
2
27

5
7

··-

6
3
26
1
22
15

5

End-.
eo.trlb.

305.00
552.00
694.50
893.50
229.45

567.75
1190.00
162.00
119.50
74.00
118.50
201.50
1288.50
30.50
193.00
86.00
60.31
32.50
90.00
546.00
139.00
516.00
834.00
40.50
308.00
530.00

140.00
495.00
1090.00
525.00
140.00
35.00
550.00
1030.00
210.00
400.00
35.00
130.00
130.00

980.00
399.45
1319.40
400.00
176.50
95.00
140.00
1400.00
20.00
86.50
39.00
29.48

.. .................

60.00
28.00
49.00
53.00
715.75

210.00
85.00
350.00
600.00
105.00
445.00
400.00
70.00
375.00
140.00
70.00
845.00
105.00
280.00
105.00
245.00
70.00
805.00
140.00
665.00
595.00
35.00

~

00
00

856.20
750.25
33.00
763.00
282.50
1078.50
71.50
377.50
69.00
1315.00
84.00
678.00
58.50
627.50
889.50
311.00

~

"°
'°

No.

Lod'ile

Members

134 l<Jng David's ···-····-···--209
135 Friendship -·--········----210
136 San Benito -···-·····--211
137 South San Francisco ......212
138 San Buenaventura ..........214
139 Oak Grove -·····--·······--.215
140 Doric ---·····-····-·-2 16
141 Monterey -···············-···217
142 Mosaic ---············---2 18
143 Speranza ltaliana -········-219
144 Downey -···--·-········220
145 Inyo ---······-·-···-.. 221
146 R~eville --·-···-····--222
147 Bakersfield ·················-··2M
148 Brooklyn ·--·-·······-···-··22S
149 San Mateo ···········-····-226
150 Athens ---············-·-··-2 28
151 Solano ··-·····---······-2 29
152 North Butte -········--···230
153 Covelo ---···-·····---.2 31
154 onesville -·-·-················232
155 Calistoga ···········-····-··-233
156 Hope -·-···-···-··-··--- 234
157 Surprise Valley ............_23S
158 Hills Ferry ----······.236
159 Guadalupe ···-·····--·······""
160 Colusa ···-······--····-··---2 .fO
161 Santa Ana --···--·--.241
162 Magnolia ·········-···-···-··242
163 Eucalyptus ····-··-·-···-243
164 Alcatraz ~·--··---2ff
. -······-···-245
165 Laurel _ _
166 Pomona ---·-··-···--..24 6
241
167 Fresno - - -

428
723
159
259
426
611
484
297
214
292
739
165

168 Alturaa --·····-·····----24 8
2SO
169 Adin
170 Landmark - - . 2 5 3
171 Reading --··--.....25 4
172 Welcome _______....255

196
l()C)
121
233
211
401
157
685
477

·-

.-256

173 Lodi
258
174 Penrhyn
175 Evergreen _ _ _ _ __2S9
176 King Solomon's ·--··-260
7.61
177 TUICBD
.--262
178 Lompoc
179 Heaperian --·--264
26S
180 Orland
w;
181 North East 7.67
182 Galt
268
183 Durant
184 Olive Branch _ _ _ _269
185 Snow Mountain _ •.--271
__m
186 Pasadena .
187 Anchor _ _ _ __J73

- .--27.f
188 Azroyo
'ZTS
189 Oakdale
_:rn
190 Seim.a
191 Southern c.alifomia ···-···278
279
192 Hanford
280
193 Madera
194 Mount Shasta ··---......281
282
195 Calayoml
196 South West ---··--283
197 San Mlg•el _____28S
286
198 Pa.so Robles '
199 Wl.Dnedumah ___.-287
_288
200 Maxwell

289

201 Elsinott
202 East Gate _.---290
203 Santa Paula --·-··-..291

395
836

574
596
183
584
229
63
166
119
125
76
159
179
161
581

455
497
632
244
416

737

95
193
371
160
65
86

506
318
41

573
594
171
194
233
498
239
276
125
71
516
63
272
237
70
151
802
397

Charter
luued

1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873 "
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
i875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878

1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888

Deqree

Affll.

6. L.
Per Caplt•

Members
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrlb.

400.00
525.00
175.00
140.00
715.00
385.00
420.00
485.00
350.00
130.00
2580.00
130.00
735.00
690.00
245.00
795.00
140.00
365.00
245.00

910.50
356.00
319.50
532.50
893.50
450.00
145.00

22
8
7

1201.75
2014.25
448.25
675.00
1201.25
1700.00
1326.00
830.50
607.25
769.75
2220.00
462.75
1134.00
2358.00
1569.00
1676.50
493.75
1544.00

fHI

Fees

Dues

lnlt.

Paued

Raised

80

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

12
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
15
12
15
15
18
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
15
15
12
15
12
12
12

10
15

11
14

12
19

3
5

75
50
95
75
75
100

75
75
100
100

50
50

...........
1.00
10.00

-----··
10.00
_.... -·..............

100

5.00
2.50
...............

75

....... . . . .

100

--·-··

50
75
75
50
75
50
50
50

50
75
50

75

.............

10.00
........ ___

··-···-

1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

··----

10.00
1.00

100
99

.............

75

10.00
5.00
2.00
3.00

50
50
80

··-·--·

90

1.00
2.00
1.00
5.00

75

..

50
50

so

50
50

75
115

50
75
75
50
50
50
80

---3.00
·-····

.............
___
,,

1.00.
____
2.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

75
7.5

····-··

115
125
50

--··
6.00

75

1.00

--····

80

1.00
12.00

75
50
50

·----3,()()

90

.............
5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

50
75
50

75
75
75

75

___.
--

75

-·10.00

50

··- ...·-

5

3

4
19
11
12
11
10

6
16
14
8
11
9

3

3

68

76

14
14
8
11
8
2
74

3

3

3

21
19
7
22
4
9
7
........
4
1
4
4
2
9

19
24
6
21
6
10
12

16
27

14

654.50

......

.....

4
........
4
4
2
10

3

162.25
462.00
322.75
352.00
210.00
438.75
514.00

5

··-

3

4

3
11
5
14

3

3

17
17
13
6

13
15
14
6
4
17
19

22
16
8
7
22
30

3

3

2

2
2
9

3
18
21

2
12
12
........
2
12
12
. 11
5
12
12
10
5
12
12
33
18
10
2
12
7
12
2
12
12 .
2
5
12
3
12
8
12
14
15
1
12
19
15
29
15
5
12
7
12
6
15
7
12
12
10
5
15
14
12
3
12
25
12
12
3
12
15
10
15
1
12
4
15
12
12
14
15

3
13
6
11

3
32
4
2
8
6
1
6
4
6
10
1
18
26

5

5
12
2
31
6
2

3
5
4
6
4
6
12
1
23
26

5

453.75
1639.00
1288.75
140CJ.75
1708.50
685.00
1201.00
2083.00

538.75
290.00
334.25
638.00
577.00
1108.25
403.25
1946.75
1287.75
259.00
543.25
1014.00
443.25
177.50
242.00
1381.25
899.50
115.75
1589.00
1695.25
482.50

7

6

553.50

3
5

5

649.25
1332.75
660.00
762.25
370.50
197.75
1497.50
180.50
792.25
687.75
195.50
41550
2146.50
1134.50

8
7
12
2

9
15

5
9

3

25

34

4
17
13
1

3
15
13
1

5

5

14
17

14
20

140.00
35.00
140.00
165:00
70.00
340.00
105.00
630.00
670.00
530.00
260.00
105.00
715.00
735.00

70.00
.. .......... ___
95.00
435.00
175.00
400.00
175.00
1155.00
350.00
70.00
295.00
95.00
175.00
70.00
105.00
330.00
490.00
35.00
690.00
lOCJ0.00
175.00
245.00
210.00
245.00
400.00
175.00
515.00
130.00
900.00
105.00
525.00
350.00
35.00
140.00
430.00
540.00

~

\0

0

357.50
222.50

275.50
1517.40
311.50
353.00
10CJ2.36
501.50
1248.50
122.50
317.00
71.50
156.00
29.00
35.00
214.23
445.00
31.00
1284.00
1169.50
1025.75
353.00
162.50
832.46
453.oo

170.00
21.00
207.50
105.00
812.50
54.50
492.50
981.50
405.00
3135.00
61.50

73.50
363.00
244.50
38.50
1146.00
1310.00
146.03
46.00
487.00
1412.00
483.00
241.06
175.00
618.00
146.57
365.00
582.69
21.00
222.00
1115.30
841.50

M,a..

'°

Lod11•

No.

204 Los Gatos ------292
205 Orange Grove ----..•.293
206 Traver -------·-··---294
207 Mt. Jackaon --·----...29S
208 Silver Gate -·---··-·····296
209 Dummuir
...291
210 Liberty
299
211 Redlands --··----·····.300
212 Ontario -··-············---..301
213 Santa Luda ••
...302
2H Porterville ·-···----303
215 Reedley --·-··--..30t
216 Azusa _
...30S
217 Ashlar _
.306
218 Santa Monica -·---...•.31:11
219 Monrovia -·····--·---308
220 Delano ·-·····-··-----309
310
221 Sisson ---·-·
222 Loa Banos
--312
223 Tehachapi - - -- -.313
224 Temescal ------····--314
225 Norwalk --·-···--··-···31S
226 Sanger ·--------316
227 Fallbrook -·
317
228 Emanuel
-318
229 Hollenbeck - ·
319
230 South Gate ------320
231 Alisa) _
--.321
232 Alhambra _
-322
233 Whittier - - - - - - 3 2 3
234 Corona --·---·--·----324
235 C:OOSuelo 32S
236 Needles
26
237 Long Beach
_-371

.. ,,_

Members

Cherter
laued

~,

337
284
162
124
1317
291
323
444
445
174
493
165
295
297
413
310
244
108
162
207
2fX>
297
335
162
87
987
605
158
fX>l
784
464
299
345
62i

1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896

75
75
80
50
80
50
75
75
75
75
50
75
75
55
80
100
100
50
75
75
50
75
75
55
50
75
100
50
100
75
115
90
75
100

603
127
220
270
511
102
389
1116
858
204
102
'390
405
623
542
Ht
760
505
784
1056
586
374
178
505
1252
444
260
788
99
299
140
161
652
162
1063
621

1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899.
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905

100
100
125
75
80
53
50
175
100
75
50
75
75
100
100
50
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
100
125
100
75
75
50
100
75
75
75
50
80
75

Fees

Affll.

----1.00
1.00
5.00

···---

····-...... . . . .

..............
................
................

--·-··
-···-·
__ .. ···-· ....
.............

·------

..........
2.00

·-·-··

1.00
2.00

..............

..........
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00

·-- ·------·-······

.............
1.00
25.00

Dues

lnlt.

Pe11ed

Relied

6.L.
Per C.plt•

Members
Contrlb.

18
18
15
18
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
15
12
12

15
9
4
5
19
2
8
20
27
8
21
1
24
19
12
25
1
4
5
8
13
21
11
7
2
14
8
5
13
32
18
15
8
26

18
6
4
1
22

16
5
4
2
27
1
10
13
29
5
19
2
10
23
15
18
5
3
5
6
16
15
10
8
1
8
7
4
23
35
13
12
6
22

951.00
790.00
449.25
349.00
3fX>7.75
789.50
904.25
1234.00
1296.50
493.75
1412.75
453.25
851.25
860.25
1155.50
902.25
634.25
304.25
455.75
584.75
763.50
863.25
954.25
463.00
244.50
2fX>2.00
1628.75
442.00
1874.00
2198.25
1277.75
846.25
954.00
1768.SO

600.00
365.00
H0.00
175.00
740.00
70.00
305.00
750.00
945.00
280.00
735.00
35.00
890.00
690.00
470.00
975.00
85.00
H0.00
175.00
280.00
530.00
845.00
445.00
270.00
70.00
515.00
330.00
225.00
480.00
1145.00
655.00
. 650.00
330.00
10f5.00

24

1723.25
351.25
607.25
748.50
1402.00
288.75
1134.75
3151.00
2360.00
561.25
283.50
1076.75
1139.00
1825.00
1504.00
391.75
2148.75
1409.75
2182.75
2918.75
1629.75
1047.50
471.50
1412.25
3452.00
1212.50
730.00
2144.75
267.00
817.00
395.00
462.75
1772.50
457.50
2958.50
1726.50

1115.00
105.00
35.00
245.00
375.00
175.00
1320.00
2265.00
350.00
131.00
35.00
200.00
715.00
1745.00
525.00
280.00
1165.00
480.00
1460.00
740.00
375.00
455.00
175.00
236.00
1470.00
560.00
550.00
200.00
35.00
140.00
H0.00
350.00
655.00
280.00
1170.00
480.00

12

......
9
13
25
5
17
2
17
18
12
26
4
3
3
7
14
16
12
8
5
11
5
4
23
22
12
8
5
21

Encl-.

Contrlb.

""'N\0

321.50
172.00

..................
81.50
1212.55
188.00
650.00
535.00
403.00
221.50
491.50
81.00
591.88
210.00
836.50
626.00
496.00
51.00
151.50
195.00
154.50
600.00
315.00
32.00
160.00
1724.00
282.00
1332.00
863.50
896.00
120.50
469.50
539.54

- ----=-==

238 Redondo ·---·-·-··-·J23
239 Vallee de France ---·-329
240 Kilauea --···-·-····-···..330
241 Paci.Be Grove .......____ _331
242 San Pedro --·---"·-----332
333
243 Alta - .- nt
244 Covina - - ·
245 West Gate ......................335
336
246 Fruitvale --····..·-·
247 Carquine:z --·--·---.337
248 San Jacinto ..- ..-----338
249 Fullerron ···--·-·-..-339
250 Oxnard ·---·---341
251 San Fernando -·---343
252 Starr King ...........___-3ff
253 Brentwood ..·-··-·--345
254 Palo Alto ···-·-·---·-··-.346
255 McKinley -·-·-----..347
256 San Bernardino
348
M9
257 Sequoia -··
258 Palestine --····-..·-·-.......351
259 Sunset ........- ....._ .._ ....352
260 Pinole ··--------.3S3
354
261 Presidio ----·..
262 Hollywood
-3SS
263 Mlll Valley ......·--·----.356
264 Buena Park ···-··--·--357
265 Golden State ·-··-·-·--3S8
2fX> Loyalton --·----359
267 San Francisco ...... ____ 360
268 Fort Bragg ..
361
269 Charity ··-··------362
270 Berkeley
271 Willits _
···--.36.S
272 Las Palmas ··-·------.366
273 South Pasadena .......- ....367

--··-·-·-..363

·--12.00
····-

----··
25.00
5.00

--·.............
25.00

......... ··--

-···--

-··-·
1.00
······-

10.00

·····--·

5.00

··--10.00
1.00
10.00

................
25.00
20.00
15.00

---· -·-

...........
10.00

·-·······-

5.00

----

5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

12
15
12
15
15
12
12
15
16
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
12
15
18
12
12
12
15
12
1?
12
18
12
12

28
3
1
·7
10
5
37
59

to
4
1
4
19
47
15
8
29
13
41
19
10
12
5
7
37
16
15
5
1
4
4
10
17
8
31
13

24
6
3
5
8
3
30
55
H
5
1
5
16
36
20
3
27
13
43
18
10
15
5
10
37
12
13
4
1
4
3
6
10
8
24
10

4
1
5
9
3
31
45
15
5
1
9
15
37
17
4
22
17
39
19
12
14
5
12
34
13
9
10
1
6
3
4
13
7
16
15

549.00
277.50
208.50
199.50
1062.25
169.00
348.00
2345.61
560.00
190.00
20.00
563.00
259.75
1283.00
516.00
62.00
1409.00
520.50
950.00
2184.99
1212.50
961.00
107.00
360.50
1484.02
1570.00
530.00
829.65
489.50
14.00
203.82
170.50
41.00
1512.50
1466.00

""'w\0

Lod9e

No.

274 Unity -··---- -..368
275 Ocean Park
...369
276 Amity 310
277 Le ProgresdeL"Oceanie 371
278 Gardena _ _ _ _•..312
279 West. Los Angeles ___ _:513
280 Jewel
314
281 Richmond -·-···~·-·--_:515
282 Francis Drake ··-·······-3 16
311
283 Arteaia --·--·
284 Mizpah ---········ ···__;ra
285 Flltmore -··-·--··· ....379
286 Huntington Beach ·-······.380
287 Oceanside _._--3 81
288 Highland Park -·······-..3 82
289 Orosl -··-·---· --··.383
290 El Centro --······-·-·····..384
291 Dinuba ···--···-- ··..385
292 Coallnga ·----~7
293 Parnassus ·--···-·······-..388
294 Paloa Verdes ···--··.3 89
295 Imperial ---·-··· ·.390
296 East Belt --··---- ·.391
297 West Lake ·······--·····-·..392
298 Balder ---···--·· ......393
299 University __
39f
300 Turlock ---·-··-·········-··.395
301 Apollo -·----·- ....396
302 Rising Light -·-·-··-·-·· .397
303 Fraternity ···--····--··.399
304 Burllngame -··········--·400
305 Bay View ....--··-- -101
306 Brawley
102
307 Yeri>a Buena

------i 03

308 c:;Jendora ...•.................•...•40f
309 Moneta ----····· -···405
310 Burbank ---·--·--~
311 La Mesa --··---- ·······107
312 Sierra Madre ····-···-·······408
313 Honolulu ---·-······· ·····409
314 Charter Rock ··-········-- 410
315 Perris ·---··--· ····-411
316 Calexico ············-··· ···-··412
317 Arlington - - - - - - 4 H
318 Sliver Trowel ···- ······---415
319 Lindsay ···--·--·-· -···--416
320 Oovis -··-······-· --·····-417
321 Elysian -·-····-··· -·--418
322 Upland --·-·-··- ··--419
323 Kennan ·-··-······-·· ········-420
324 Inglewood -···---- 421
325 Eagle Rock ···-··-·-····· ···422
326 York ------- ---423
327 Exeter ···-········-· --········424
328 Holtville ----·-··-·· ···-425
329 Midway ------- -426
330 Chino Valley ····-···--·-4 27
331 San Dimas -·······-- -428
332 Pittsburg ····------- --<f29
333 McCloud --·
430
334 Alpha --··-···· ---431
335 Hammonton -·-··----- 433
336 Maricopa _ _ _ _Uf
337 Fairmount -·-······-···· ----435
338 Oaremont --------- -436
339 Lancaster - ·····-···-· -437
340 Acacia
341 Tyrian -----·- ---439
342 Standard ·--·····-···-··-+tO
343 Coronado - - - · --441

------- ---t38

Members

636
530

435
714
404
455
201
513

387
198
429
245
341

446
651
151
462
303
418
792
692
128
100

886
492
614
403
462
1028
441 '
713

649
239
911

174
661

766
588
176
419
328
155
154

337
396
221
504
454
239
129

765
526
364
234
151
500
152
163
325
98
521
66
185
478
124
378
52
200
353
409

Chart•

luued

1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909

1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914

DecJr..
F.-

Alfll.
F.-

125
115
100
175
105

--·-

75

-25.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

100
100
100
50
100
50

-5.00
·-25.00

75
75

-·5.00

100
65

75
75
100
100
125

1.00

--------10.00

75

-10.00

50
100
100
125

5.00
50.00
20.00
20.00

75
75

-·-1.00

100
100
100

75
75
100

50
105
100
125

75
175

75
50
50

75
125
50
80

75

-5.00

-5.00

25.00
25.00

...........

·-·--5.00
3.00
........ ...
10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00

-

. ·---

10.00

--···

............

50

25.00
3.00

75

...............

125
100
100
50

25.00

75
50
50

····-··

---------...........
····-

····-··

55
75

--·-··

50

-...... -··
------

75
50

50
100
50
115

75
50
75
75

1.00

-...........
-·-6.00
····-

---..... _....
---

Dues

lnlt.

Pa11ed

Raised

Per Capita

&.L

Members
Contrlb.

End-•
Colltrfb.

15
15
18
15
12
15
12
12
18
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
15
12
15
18
12
15
IS

14
17

21
16
6
17
23
16
6

16

14

1802.25
148750
1196.00
1999.75
1160.25
1290.25
560.25
1408.50
1078.75
526.50
1203.25
686.25
969.00
1291.50
1811.25

565.00
645.00
245.00
670.00
680.00
725.00
210.00
260.00
795.00
385.00
350.00
210.00
455.00
860.00
455.00
70.00
505.00
70.00
550.00
1040.00
455.00
245.00
315.00
200.00
680.00
375.00
455.00

1674.35
604.00
582.50
1430.00
195.00

7

21
19
6
16
22
26
1
6
14
8

12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
15
15
18
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
18
12
15
12

7
17
18
19
6
6
22
11
10
6
13
21
13
2
13
2
15
28
13

5
17

7

5

16
26
22
4
17
2
16
30
15

16
29
19
3
16
3
15
30
15

7

5

9

6

7
7

5

5

18
10
12
15
25
13
21
28
12
2S

14
13
16
16
22
13
30

12

5
44
13

24
9
32

9
8
42
17

4
17
11

H
17

36
10
32
23
10
26

10
8
32
20
4
11
4
4
1
4

7

7

15
2
4
1
6
16
4
20
9
15
14
34
12
13

15
2
3
1
6
15
10
18
10
11
13
33
13
12
9
3
6
4
3
12

4
8
6
2
11

··-

-··

5
46

4
4
10
.6
32

13
4
30

2

··-

7
4
9

5
4
11
1
13
4

5
10

5
10
11

u

2
9
11

H
8

27
11
12
8
31
11
13

7

12
3

5

-6
9
12

407.75
1311.00
812.75
1181.75

222750
1888.25
357.25
291.50
2431.25
1396.50

1697.75
1136.50
129650
2866.00
1243.25
2010.75
1851.50
682.75
2571.75

509.50
1786.50
2202.50
1642.25
496.50
1179.50
896.25
420.75
423.75
920.75
1109.25
624.25
1415.25
1256.50
687.00
389.75
218250
1471.50
1006.00
661.00
418.00

1367.75
433.00
451.75
914.00

267.75
1466.00
184.25
511.75
1322.75
350.50

1144.75
139.50
563.00
985.00
1158.75

575.DD
891.00
480.00
735.00
1005.00
445.00
900.00

495.00
175.00
1690.00
580.00
305.00
541.00
70.00

HO.OD
60.00
210.00
585.00
140.00
735.00
365.00
550.00
515.00
1240.00
420.00
455.00
245.00
140.00
315.00
225.00
165.00
435.00
35.00
455.00
140.00
175.00
350.00
225.00
1660.00
95.00
200.00
375.00
435.00

....
~

807.95
103.00
257.00
346.00
413.00
1353.50
515.50
50.01
496.40

346.75
331.00
924.07
150.00
950.00
769.25
407.00

15150
81.00
1852.50
506.25
1504.00
820.70
101250
500.98
576.00
2077.00
356.48
542.75
18+f.00

56.00
1131.00
938.25
434.00
706.00 .
841.00
309.50
66.00
177.00
685.50
865.00
321.00
648.50
781.38
228.00
262.50
495.50
608.90
182.00
502.06
310.00
382.00
50.00
167.00
117.00
13150
499.50
44.00
272.50
259.00
116.00
770.00
109.00
139.00
161.95
888.00

~

\0

Vl

Members

Charter
Issued

D99rH
Fties

Affll.

Fees

Oues

lnlt.

P..sect

Raised

Per Capita

Memben
Contrlb.

Endow.
Contrib.

344 Blackmer ·'···················-··-i42
345 Schofield ·····················-···i43
346 Carpinteria ·················-···+ff
347 Wilshire ················-········+ti
348 La Puente ··-··············-····+%
349 Torrance -·-·····················i47
350 Mount Diablo ..................i48
351 Park -······························-+t9
352 Van Nuys ·-···················450
353 Montebello ···············-·-:.4°51
354 San Pasqual ....................452
355 Bethlehem ············-·········-453
356 Crocker ·······-··············-···454
357 Golden West ..................455
358 Ramona ·-···-·-················457
359 Henry S. Orme ..............458
360 Riverbank ........................459
361 Mount Oso ··················-··460
362 Argonau t :......................•161
363 Paul Revere ···-···············162
364 Morgan Hill ....................163
365 Alta Vista --···················164
366 Center ···········-·················165
367 Llbertas -·-·······················166
368 Culver City ··········-········167
369 Rockrldge ···-~-······-·-····168
370 Yorba Linda ···-··-···········169
371 Lincoln ·····-···················470
372 Delta --······--· ·--·-·····4 71
373 Maui ···-·-······-···········-···472
374 Blythe ···-·····-·············-·-473
375 Victory -···---- ----414
376 America ---··-·--· ··-·-··47 5
377 C>achella .:..·-···-······-····476

1289
281
130
549
189
462
393
477
1003
651
566
271
428
581
537
663
149
329
420
624
168
269
563
660
397
487
168
350
499
216
157
284
490
223

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1919
1920
1920

80
125
50
125
50
110

................
5.00
................
25.00
1.00

12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
15
18
12
12
15
15
15
12
18
12
12
18
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
18
12
12

21
12
3
11
9
18
30
4
71
24
28
5
12
10
23
10

27
10
4
13
9
15
30
8
46
23
31

J6
11

3604.00
800.25
371.50
1510.25
544.75
1316.75
1158.00
1289.00
2850.00
1846.75
1633.75
751.25
1172.50
1618.25
1535.75
1825.50
407.25
947.75
1179.50
1737.00
465.50
741.00
1602.75
1895.00
1133.75
1330.75
466.50
962.00
1405.25
598.00
457.00
784.00
1372.25
630.50

870.00
420.00
105.00
410.00
315.00
705.00
1110.00
165.00
2685.00
865.00
1105.00
175.00
480.00
350.00
830.00
375.00
..................
550.00
385.00
420.00
140.00
130.00
770.00
1180.00
845.00
595.00
35.00
200.00
280.00
70.00
315.00
175.00
505.00
355.00

1150.00
595.17
383.00
317.00
54.00
309.00
615.90
641.75
1574.25
882.45
1144.24
551.00
1127.00
648.50
1101.20
1391.25
30.50
116.50
565.50
1345.25
111.50
548.00
1162.65
504.00
866.00
411.50
336.50
1065.00
641.95
432.00
92.00
191.50
318.50
496.00

378 Temblor ·--·---- -····477
379 Thousan d Oaks ···-··-····4 78
380 Golden Rule -··-·- ·-479
381 Fellowship ··-·······-·······-480
382 Mt. Davidson ·········-·--··481
383 Clarence F. Smith ..........482
384 Bell ··················---······-·483
385 Albert Pike --····-·········--484
386 Chowchilla ---·--·· ··-485
387 Caledonia ·---···-··- ·······486
388 Vallejo ·--······· ····----487
389 Patterson -···-···-··· ········-488
390 East Bay ············-·-····-···489
391 Corcoran ······-··················490
392 Woodsto ck ····-··--· ---491
393 Garvanz a ······-··-·····-····492
394 Atascadero ········--·····-···493
395 Acorn -···-··-···· ······-····4 94
396 Lebanon ····-····-··············495
397 Fremont ··-·········· -·-···-497
398 Stockton --·········. ;..·---498
399 Capital City ....................499
400 Roosevelt ·-·-····-- ··-··500
401 Westwoo d ·-·······-- ···501
402 Harbor ···········-···········-.502
403 Point ·······-·- ---·-·--5 03
404 Seaside ........................._SIM
405 Silver Cord ···-·····-··--.SOS
406 Mount Olive ---·--·· ·506
407 El Segundo ······-·---·5<11
408 Joppa ---·--··· ---·····5 08
409 Benjamin Franklin ···-····.509
410 Cupertino -·---··--·· ······510
411 Sunnyvale ·--·--·- ···Sll
__ __s12
412 Palms_
413 Cahueng a --····--·· -·-·.513

153
526
659
320
398
357
729
258
178
542
395
136
390
132
444
334
132
631
418
537
203
562
223
276
603
316
523
489
1005
403
90
370
189
340
484
547

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921

433.75
1447.50
1882.25
896.25
1112.50
989.50
2107.50
715.50
496.25
1528.75
1094.00
382.50
1077.50
379.00
1297.50
956.50
366.00
1768.50
1182.75
1523.00
573.75
1621.25
637.25
780.25
1697.25
900.00
1502.25
1372.75
2803.50
1191.50
255.50
1032.50
542.00
978.00
1390.00
1503.50

210.00
460.00
680.00
385.00
340.00
105.00
1170.00
245.00
200.00
620.00
175.00
175.00
200.00
140.00
1015.00
495.00
225.00
480.00
280.00
445.00
210.00
935.00
340.00
280.00
560.00
420.00
1005.00
490.00
760.00
1005.00
70.00
350.00
340.00
560.00
935.00
410.00

104.00
321.50
933.50
120.00
436.50
745.00
834.00
250.25
104.55
977.61
204.50
36.50
199.25
65.77
103.50
330.75
312.07
470.56
845.50
998.31
110.00
619.50
223.00
583.00
290.40
242.50
1068.56
839.50
2423.50
382.50
73.00
593.25
304.00
275.50
990.00
526.50

Lodve

Ne.

75
75
125
100
115
100

75
75
75
125

75
80
115
100

75
75
80
100
100
115
50
100
80
85

75

_

.........
................
10.00
10.00
10.00
................
................
10.00
10.00
................
................
................
6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
.................

-------·

..............
10.00
................

...............

-- ........

.............

100

5.00
25.00

75
75

····--

50

75
75
75
100

75
100
100
100
100

75
75
75
75
75
75
75
80
100
100
80

192~

75

1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921

100
50

-·-·-

·-· ---

5.00
........
1.00
10.00
................
................
.... ........
5.00

--

-

................
10.00
5.00
10.00

-·-··

1.00

...............

..............
10.00

...........10.00
................
10.00
15.00
10.00

75
75

--··-··

125

·------

75
125
85
50
100

--·--

1.00
25.00

...............
5.00

---·-

75
75

··-··5.00

125
100

·--

5.00

15
15
12
12
18
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
12
15
18
16
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12

.......
15
11
12
4
3 ·
22
33
22
17
1
5
8
2
9
5
13
8

7
18
14
20
14
1
14
9
15
3
5
20
29
20
13
3
5
11
1
9
6

14
11

6
11
18
11
9
3
31
7
5
17
5
5
5
4
29

45
4
5
20
6
5
6
6
29

11

11

5
13
8
12
6
26
9
8
16
11
28
13
21
26
2
10
9
16
21

5
18
13
18
6
26

11

3
12
26
10
11

7

7
8
15
12
23
12
17
32
2
6

7
11
21
10

7
15

7
16
31
12
49
26
32
5
15
13

21
14
2
14
10
16
2

7
18
29
22
11
6
6
14
1
10
3
17
12

4
11
26
9
9
6
46
6
5
15

5
4
5
6

24
16
4
16
15
19
9
32
8
8
19
19
24
14
21
28
4
10
9
16
17
14

&.L

~

\0

°'

~

'°

~

locl9•

No.

414 Argonne ----···-51-t
415 Vermont Square ·······---515
416 Taft ----··········---516
417 Mount Vernon _ ............517
418 LaJolla --···-----...518
419 Euclid --···------...519
420 Ionic ------·-·--520
421 Piedmont __ ......_... ___ __521
422 Sunrise -··-·--······-··--522
423 Bellflower ---·········523
424 Catalina Island _ _ _524
425 George Washington _.525
426 Bay City -------526
427 Covenant -·····-···-····5'Zl
428 Beverly Hills ···-············528
429 Loyalty ··----··--··----529
430 Sun Garden -············-·-530
431 Alexandria ···--·---·--531
432 Smyrna _______ 532
433 Azure ----·-·-----533
434 Forest Hill - - -.....534
435 Alexander Hamilton ......535
436 Seal Rock -·-··-·····--·---536
.437 Utopia - - - - - -..537
438 Ascot ----··-·-·-··538
439 Belvedere -·-···-··--·539
440 Queen Beach --··---...540
441 Henry Morse Stephens..541
442 North Hollywood ••....... 542
443 Signal - - - - -·····--5t3
444 Glendale --·--······-·-5-tof
445 Jonathan --··-········.stS
+t6 San Gebriel --·--·...s-t6
447 Arcadia
-st1

448 Triangle _______Jt8
449 Justice ________Jt9
450 Seaport _____ ___.s50
451 Lakeshore - - - · -- ·-..SS1
452 Semper Vireos ···-····--·...SS2
453 Educator -··············-···5Sf
454 White Pine •..................SSS
455 Fairfax ---···-··-·----...SS6
SS7
456 Hermosa ---··
457 Point Firmin ···-·-·····-·...558
458 Craftsmen -·-···-·········-·..559
459 Plymouth -·--······560
460 East San Diego ··--·····561
461 Pyramid --··----.S62
462 South Park
.....S63
463 Foothill
464 West Adams .................56S
465 James A. Garfield .........566
466 Searchlight ·-··--···-567
467 Park Boulevard -·········...568
468 Chateau Thiery __ _569
469 Military Service -·--·570
470 Francis K Shattuck .....571
471 James Madison -··········---S72
472 Hlllcrest --·-···-'·········-····S73
473 S. W. Hackett ····-···-····57-f
474 Fort Crook -----·--...57S
475 El Cajon Valley ···-·--516
476 Sunnyside -·-····----517
417 Progressive --·--··-····578
478 Warren G. Hardlng........579
479 Santa Marla -·-··--····--580
480 Security --·-··-···..581
481 Rialto
.--582
482 Wasco
483 Harding -········-······-·····-5M

----··---.56t

-------..533

Memben

Chart...
luued

l>eQrH

383
545
333
230
335
394
988
263
335
507
155
485
401
329
565
535
569
169
161
271
195
298
206
715
359
212
193
349
922
535
797
202
511
507

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

100
100
50
80
105
100
175
80
100
125
100
100
100
100
125
125
80
75
70
75
80
100
100
100
100
75
80
75
125
100
100
100
125
100

316
392
231
271
302
401
103
448
391
372
429
408
783
304
425
935
338
238
489
434
358
348
255
374
82
620
189
388
461
546
601

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

115
100
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
80
100
75
75
90
100
80
100
100
110
100
100
100
75
100
75
80
75
75
125
75
100
80
100
75
80
75

117
408
211
319
285

Alfll.
Fees

Fees

5.00
15.00

.........._
10.00

·-- ........

-25.00
5.00

.............

_

_

........ ....

.......

10.00

-····-····

10.00

.............
20.00
5.00

--............._
10.00
5.00
10.00

--..........._
·-·-

..........._
5.00
5.00

----

5.00
25.00

...............

--10.00
25.00
5.00

---5.00
2.00
~

·----

-·-·--

·-·-5.00

....... --·
10.00
.........

__

5.00
.... ............
30.00

·---··

····--

10.00
10.00
5.00

······....... _..

·----·
5.00

·-- ·--

20.00
15.00

........... _
............

---5.00

··-5.00

Endow.

Dues

lnlt.

Palffd

llalsed

6.L
Per C.plt•

Membe"
Contrlb.

Contrlb.

12
12
12
18
12
15
15
15
13
12
15
15
15
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
12

4
12
9
11
13
13
30
5
9
33
11
9
15
15
17
39
18
3
10
14
10

20
23

5
12
15
12
12
15
31
4
7
33
11
9
20
19
13
35
16
6
11
8
5
7
8
20
10
13
6
3
55
19
20
5
24
24

3
13
18
9
12
17
34
3
8
39
10
12
18
15
17
29
18
5
13
10
5
9
7
18
10
11
6
2
53
22
19
11
27
33

1065.25
1524.75
944.00
659.00
95550
1114.75
2806.50
721.50
942.50
1493.75
452.75
1352.75
1147.50
929.00
1587.00
1563.25
1611.25
476.00
474.00
777.25
556.25
824.50
587.50
1997.25
1008.00
614.50
538.50
957.75
2670.50
1517.50
2232.50
577.75
1465.25
1471.50

140.00
445.00
315.00
410.00
605.00
480.00
1300.00
175.00
315.00
1375.00
385.00
340.00
525.00
525.00
745.00
14)5.00
655.00
130.00
350.00
515.00
350.00
445.00
210.00
550.00
315.00
480.00
140.00
140.00
2250.00
665.00
910.00
315.00
785.00
905.00

19757
1100.00
702.00
22250
210.00
805.45
2000.00
247.00
79850
185.00
322.75
975.75
12350
445.00
595.25
1088.50
385.00
434.00
27.00
160.00
149.00
600.00
35250
1432.00
443.50
186.00
145.00
389.50
1905.24
647.50
716.45
33250
1090.50
1139.50

15
15
18
18
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
15
12
16
15
12
. 15
15
16
15
16
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
15

14
19
11
6
11
10
1
25
25
8
9
13
24
12
6
49
13
8
12
12
15
16
6
14
7
28
12
36
10
14
29
2
11
21
15
23

12
21
7
7
12
7
4
21

15
19
7
5
10
14
3
20
31
15
10
15
32
12
9
53
12
6
12
13
10
8
7
18
3
33
11
24
6
15
23
4
9
21
11
17

901.75
1109.50
649.25
760.50
860.75
1131.00
288.50
1284.25
1138.25
1041.25
1187.50
1158.50
2208.50
863.75
118050
2719.50
95650
671.75
1376.75
1221.25
1017.00
971.75
720.25
1076.50
234.00
1783.75
543.50
1153.00
1281.75
1529.50
1722.75
325.25
1121.00
636.75
903.00
826.50

550.00
665.00
385.00
210.00
385.00
400.00
35.00
925.00
925.00
315.00
340.00
455.00
890.00
420.00
260.00
1895.00
530.00
280.00
470.00
420.00
610.00
585.00
210.00
515.00
270.00
1030.00
420.00
1595.00
375.00
490.00
1015.00
70.00
385.00
760.00
575.00
855.00

639.59

11
6
15
9
13
4
4
60
19
21
~

29
9
8
14
24
12

5
49
13
6
8
11
13
10
6
16
4
26
9
24
9
10
29
3
12
20
8
22

.,.

'°
00

472.00
200.00
467.75
230.50
156.00
173.00
325.50
301.00
224.50
564.00
29350
855.00
548.50
15250
60750
209.25
863.50
309.50
180.00
109.00
296.00
56.67
653.00
298.00
421.24
1030.00
1155.00
1101.50
108.00
365.00
8650
710.50
379.62

~

:g

Lod9a

No.

Members

Charter
l11ued

094,..

125

484 Manchester ···-······-·---·--.585
485 Garden Grove ···········--586
486 Valley Forge ···········-····.587
487 El Sereno ........................588
488 Kauai ··············-·········-····589
489 Compass ·················-······.590
490 Escalon ......................•.....591
491 Tujunga ..........................592
492 All States ···-··········'·······.593
493 Service ............................59-t
494 Alexander Graham Bell..595
495 Guardian ········-··········-··-596
496 Pearl Harbor .......•..........598
497 Carmelita ........................599
498 Lynwood ·····················-···600
499 Grizzly •......................-601
500 Melrose ···-·······--···-····-·602
501 Dimond ···-······-···-····--·603
502 Jubilee ···-······-···············604
503 Glassell Park ··'-··············605
504 Sojourner ···········-·-··-···607
505 Granada ···············-·········608
506 Provident ······-·········-····609
507 Elmhurst ·-····--····-····-··--610
508 Canoga ·•·····················-···611
509 Temple City ···········-··-··-612
510 Three Pillars ~--·············613
511 Larchmont ···-··-··--······614
512 Hemet -·················--·-··615
513 R. E. Dolley....................616
514 Big Bear ··············-··········617
515 Southland ··········-··-·······618
516 Neptune ···-·-······-----619
S17 Point Loma ··-············--620

386
284
369
462
132
301
154
294
536
839
292
959
591
361
471
134
268
300
367
413
247
834
458
263
282
488
419
188
229
165
344
297
661

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

518 The Gardens ···-·-······-···621
519 Atwater --···--··-···-··-···622
520 Menorah ··--··-··-·-···-··623
521 Fortitude ··············'····-·····624
522 Angeles Mesa ·-···············625
523 Chula Vista ······-·····-····626
524 Lamanda Park ···-······-···627
525 Truth ····-·····-·····-·--··--628
526 Fairview ······--·-·········:-.629
527 Ingleside -~·-···-·········-··-·63Q
528 Benevolence ······--·····---631
529 Normal Heights ............•.632
530 Poinsettia ··---···-··-·····-·633
531 Victorville ·······-···········-634
532 Riverside ·-·······--·······635
533 John Marshall ····-··········636
534 Palisades ·-········-···········637
535 Indian Rock ·······-·-········638
536 Composite ····---········639
537 V eritas -····-··-··-···········6i0
538 James A. Foshay ............641
539 La Cumbre ·--·····-··········642
540 Alta Loma --·-······-·····643
541 Lomita ···-···········-··-···--·6ff
542 A. F. E. lrwin..................645
543 Metropolitan ···--·-·········6i6
5H Hawthorne ··········---·---647
545 Damascus ····--··-·····-···648
546 Florence ···-·············-······649
547 LaBrea ·······-·····---·····650
548 Menlo Park ----·-·--···651
549 Crescenta Valley •.........652
550 Fontana ··'···-··---··-··-···653
551 Jordan ··-·······-··-····-~--654
552 Monte Vista --············-655
553 Citrol -··-·-····---······656

475
373
912
224
721
528
280
252
296
216
278
711
717
225
441
296
424
222
499
128
243
272
395
311
282
159
503
656
496
270
269
508
348
408
709
209

1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1924
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927

HO

Fe111

75

F-

DuH

lnlt.

Paned

Raised

Per Capita

6.L

Members
Contrlb.

Endow.
Contrlb.

20.00
1.00
..............

12
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
16
12
12
12
18
15
12
15
12
15
16
12
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12

10
14
23
11
2
15
3
13
11
33
14
47
20
8
25

6
19
17
11
3
20
6
13
11
36
15
45
16

9
18
12
20

1081.00
826.50
1061.25
1304.25
373.00
879.75
438.50
850.50
1484.00
2405.50
842.50
2742.00
1679.75
1011.50
1350.50
368.75
767.00
832.00
1048.00
1166.50
720.50
2367.25
1320.75
745.25
839.25
1439.50
1237.00
1161.50
535.25
649.50
454.25
1016.00
859.75
1931.25

375.00
640.00
830.00
385.00
70.00
525.00
105.00
530.00
410.00
1255.00
490.00
1720.00
700.00
280.00
900.00
175.00
365.00
200.00
595.00
480.00
425.00
1185.00
665.00
245.00
1055.00
1180.00
305.00
235.00
355.00
385.00
105.00
875.00
725.00
1190.00

1030.00
321.50
232.86
411.70
333.75
621.00
114.00
363.00
803.00
850.00
838.50
1924.16
1030.50
776.00
980.50

12
15
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
15
12
15
12
15
18
12
12
12
12
15
15
16
12
12
12
12

20
13
54
8
25
27
8

1353.25
1051.75
2662.25
651.25
2057.00
1533.00
796.25
706.50
843.00
610.50
774.75
2064.75
2047.25
654.75
1318.50
848.25
1211.00
632.75
1467.75
362.25
692.75
762.25
1109.75
888.25
791.75
465.25
1527.25
1883.25
1399.50
766.00
788.75
1488.00
1020.00
1153.25
2074.75
601.00

700.00
480.00
2115.00
280.00
1000.00
1055.00
330.00
200.00
380.00
280.00
375.00
1770.00
1160.00
420.00
1370.00
590.00
720.00
295.00
1420.00
191.00
385.00
395.00
515.00
840.00
245.00
330.00
1610.00
1285.00
620.00
505.00
805.00
1490.00
830.00
585.00
1725.00
490.00

428.50
755.00
3257.50
103.00

Affll.

100
125

..............

75
75

.............

50

75
100

10.00

............-

................
..............

75
75

..............

100
150
115
125
50

...............

75
100

75
75
75
75
75
100
90

75
125
100
50
100

5.00
15.00
...............

...............
10.00
10.00
5.00
1.00

···--·-

---···-

..............

10.00
10.00
1.00
........ --10.00
5.00

··-····
................

75

..............

100
100
125

····-·-

100

...............

75
125

................
.......

75

5.00

125

................

75
75
75

1.00

5.00
10.00

·--~

..............
1.00
3.00

. ...............
75

100

100
80

........ ---

75
55
75

..............

................

125
100
100

................
..............
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
................

75

................

100
125
80

...............

100
100

75

75
100

75
125
100
100
100

75
100

75
50

.............
5.00
...........
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00

-----·
................
·-·······-

---1.00

7
21

5

5

9

9
6
13
14
20
24
23
9
23
35

5
17
13
10
31
19

7
27
33
8
6
8
11
3
25
20
29

5
17
6
16
10
43
16
43
24
12
23
4
12

7

7
5
7
8
2
23
19
39

25
13
58
15
32
26
12

17
12
14
27
22
6
22
35
12
12
6
9
1
22
15
51

24

11
45
15
31
28
9

5

7

7

8
8
10
47
31
12
37
14
17

11
8

10
6
9
37
32
13
39
10
21
9
35
4
9

7
37

5
11

5
42
29
11
38
13
18
9
29
4
10

7

5

5

14
24
6
8
46
36
17
13
22
33
23
16
45
14

15
23

11
19
8
11
60
49
10
6
13
26
27
15
49
13

5
9
49
30
14
10
14
32
24
14
42
13

Ul

0
0

306.50
608.40
804.25
529.50
62.00
854.62
664.00
94.00
192.00
996.00
892.60
880.00
378.00
469.40
206.00
287.00
676.50
788.00

575.50
541.75
478.50
596.75
808.20
136.00
80.50
917.50
1442.00
143.00
894.00
630.45
1234.38
194.50
964.50
134.00
515.00
828.00
292.00
226.00
224.00
256.00
1020.00
439.69
504.00
601.05
326.50
271.00
259.64
389.00
345.00
155.00

-

Ul

0

LOGQe

No.

554 John D. Spreckels _ _657
658
655 Livingston
659
556 La Habra
557 Baldwin Park ____ (16()
661
558 Malta
559 Henry Knox --···--662
663
560 Ojai -···--·-·561 Kaweah ----·--66S
562 Reseda ··-··········-··-·-666
563 Meridian _ _ _ _•.J67
564 San Gorgonlo --·-·····668
565 John P. Jarman ········-····669
566 Greenleaf - - ··-·670
567 San Oemente __ _ _.671
672
568 Laguna Beach
673
569 Far West
570 Los Cerritos ....----67.f
571 Modesto ----·-·····- -·..675
572 Wlllow Glen ...- ........-676
573 Liberal Arts _______677
574 Altadena --------·-··-618
575 Canby Cross ______679
576 Carmel ___ _ _ _680
577 Dos Palos ____________...681

____682

578 Barstow
579 Redwood Empire ____683
68.f
580 Trona
685
581 San Marino
582 Albany _ _ _ _686
583 Vista ··-·- - - - · -··-687
688
584 Oildale -·
_____689
585 Pohona
586 San Carlos --·--690
587 Indian Wells Valley__691

588 Travelers
692
693
589 Palm Springs
590 San Antonio
694
695
591 Meudell
592 Croasroeds -··----696
593 Saint Elmo _____697
594 Wm. D. Stephem -·-·--698
595 Bixby Knolls ···-----699
700
596 Ponderosa
597 Santa Ynez Valley _ ....701
598 Rosemead _ _ _ _ _702
599 Westchester __ __703
7M
·
600 Orinda 05
601 El Cerrito
602 Hunters Point Naval _706
07
603 Lake Tahoe
6M Seafaring ···-----108
605 Lorenzo _______700
606 Anacapa _ _ _ _ _710
607 Rim of the W orld..........711
712
608 Los Altos
'
609 Castro Valley --·-·-713
7H
610 Blue Lakes
715
611 Magnolia Park
612 Belmont Shore ____ jl6
_J17
613 Wayfarer
614 San Lorenzo Valley _ __718
.719
615 Estero
616 Mineral King ____720
721
617 Home
618 George E. Tutt _............71.2
__72j
619 Acalanes
620 San Ramon Valley__--72.f
621 Saint John's -·-···--·725
622 Yucaipa _ _ _ _726
623 Verdugo Hills ____-727

Members

668
189
2M
232
225
457
140
126
436
527
233
279
&17
105
215
344
415
494
345
346
508
157
214
136
349
102
141
365
210
270
206

72
352
337

190
168
201
166
265
127
115
270
272
91
138
327
138
151
200
59
232
217
148
109
132
166
145
154
16i
130
60
91

71
178
101
92
101
100
87
63

Charter
luued

Dec;irH
Fees

1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946

80
50
125
65

1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953

125
100
100
115
80
100
125
100
80
75
75
79

75
125
50
50
90
100

75
75
100

Affll.

F-

--·--·
--· --·
-----

25.00

-·--·-· .......
--·-1.00
5.00
25.00

75
75
75

-1.00

175

---·-5.00

75
75
125
115
65

75

10.00

-····

...... ---

1.00
3.00

100
65
50

····--

75

·--25.00

100

75
75
100
50
100
100

10.00
l.00

10.00

-····-

------

-5.00
10.00
5.00

-··........ -....

····-

10.00
........ ··10.00

-·· ·--

• 1.00

100

-------------l.00

75
75

10.00
1.00

75
75

100

75
75
100
100
100
100
125
100
80

75
75
125

75
75
75
75
75
125

·-·--

..... ---

25.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

-·-·

-----·

--l.00
---·
--·10.00

-·······
15.00

---·

-··-··

----

DuH

lnlt.

Pa11ed

Raised

12
15
12
12
12
15
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
18
12

31
16
15
30
12
13
3
6
47
19

28
16
17
27

25
13
14
28

15
15
12
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
18
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
15
12
16

9
9
16
12
18
13
14
30
22
13
14
36
15
11
26
6
20
37
18

7
16

57
4
8
6
13
19
11
24
18
4
8

7

7

13
2

12
3
8
32
24

7
43
23
6
10
38
4
8
9
23
22
14
17
23
10
12

7

5

27
10
2
31
4
9
16
3
24
28

31
9
4
24
2
8
15

7
26
32
15
14
31
24

5
7
4

55
16
15
14
13

7
6

7
12
35

5
8
11
30
15
16
20
20
9
12
4
28
8
4
20
4
7
11

5

5

31
30

39
30

8
10
25
14
16

15
14
30
18
12
18
37
13
12
22

5
19
35
19
8
17
30
22
15
32
27
3
9
5
42
f8
15
9
16
9
9

7
10
21
17
18
16
12
29
30
10
20
39
11
16
22
6
19
39
19

7
20
28
18
16
27
23
1
12
3
36
15
12
12
11
9
8

6. L.
Per Ceplta

Members
Contrlb.

Endow.
Contrib.

1896.25
56i.75
607.00
723.00
633.75
1286.50
390.25
367.50
1321.00
1509.75
658.00
805.25
1901.00
301.75
590.50
966.50
1199.00
1400.75
989.75
1009.75
1447.00
452.00
612.25
387.25
1M5.75
307.50
397.75
1076.00
587.50
763.75
608.50
208.25
1062.00
1014.75

1195.00
560.00
525.00
1100.00
420.00
446.00
130.00
210.00
1765.00
690.00
270.00
660.00
2095.00
231.00
405.00
210.00
480.00
690.00
495.00
915.00
780.00
165.00
414.00
245.00
945.00
375.00
95.00
1210.00
140.00
440.00
560.00
105.00
915.00
1055.00

631.00
75.50
425.00
234.00
453.50
926.50
337.00
177.61
13.50
1116.50
252.98
200.00
201.00
65.00
435.00
69.00
355.00
367.50
449.00
709.00
1067.00
316.00
335.50
279.00
543.70
25.00
290.00
759.50
310.00
99.00
185.00
147.00
754.50
1044.46

546.50
491.00
609.25
499.50
780.75 .
393.25
356.25
831.50
818.00
277.00
428.75
1011.25
418.50
454.25
620.00
179.25
696.00

315.00
315.00
585.00
455.00
655.00
496.00
515.00
1050.00
786.00
480.00
515.00
1360.00
550.00
410.00
935.00
235.00
900.00
1395.00
680.00
345.00
1060.00
1120.00
610.00
540.00
1260.00
840.00
175.00
320.00
140.00
2025.00
710.00
600.00
540.00
455.00
345.00
310.00

115.50
419.60
497.50
345.75
600.00
255.00
979.00

707.75
463.00
321.75
423.25
546.50
453.75
468.50
541.00
431.50
174.00
278.25
207.25
622.50
326.75
295.00
312.75
315.00
26i.25
196.25

Vl

0

N

753.75
546.00
246.50
287.00
694.97
9.00
183.50
436.00
419.80
453.00
324.35
274.50
286.50
235.00
325.00
339.00
345.50

3M.OO
132.00
195.50
181.00
444.50
205.00
263.50
170.00
202.00
184.00
150.00

Vl

0

~

504

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

~1
- -~

8

0

§

~

;;;

8

..0
~

~

..,
N

~
f'i
IO

"'

ffi
I~

I~
I~

-------------lnOONNNNlnNlnNNNNIO

18 !888 !8

·- =--- ::d

:ddd id

!8

: .n

IN

! 88
i .n .n

INN

i~~

=--

505

EXTINCT LODGES
4
4
6
7

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874•
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Ml
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell. 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John'sbYreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, !:>an Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill. Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
66 Forest, Alleghany, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, September 27, 1955.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, u
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with lone No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never
tau ed.
74 Wisconsin Hill. Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 2g, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
·
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Rowland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburc, Quartzburg, 185tl. Name changed to Hornita.!.
99 La Granie, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 18,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct, 1898.
102 Manzanita1 North San Juan, 185tl. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 28, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Dicgings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Proiress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Comolidated with La Gr~e No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1155.

507

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.

151
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171
172

175
176
177
180
182
185
189
197
205
213
218
222
223
226

227
238
239
240

Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
.
Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver Cityj Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, an. 16, 1865.
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Ne. .
v·a da, Jan. 16, 1865.
Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
.
lSSUed.
Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Azt1an, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
Meridian Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
N
li
.
issued.
Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as 0 vet o.
·
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name ch~ed to ~fosaic, Oct. 18, 1881..
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Chaneed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, aa Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.

508

249

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES- Continued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since lb Organizaiion . April 18. A. L. 5850

Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.

251
252

Brotherhood , Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,

1850
Jonathan D. Stevenson ..G. M.
C.llfomla No. I
lorn Jen. I, llOO

257

Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
•
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,

Johll A. Tuft_______ o. G. M.
Caleb Fenner____s, G. W.
S.shel Woocla_... ___ J. 6. W.
Levi StowelL.____________ G. T.
John H. 6lhon...--·-·G• S.

Mokelwnne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,

Benj. D. Hyem.......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Elli1.._ ...........S. 6. W.
Senf. S. Olds._ _J. 6. W.
TownHnd A. Thome1......6. T.
Levi Stowell
G. S.

1918.

263
270
276
284

1911.

298

1902.

340

Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
372 Veteran Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kenneth, Kenneth, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18.L..1943.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North nollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth , Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.

612

Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.

Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
864 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
616

11137.

509

Died Feb. 14, llM

1851
John A. TutL............... G. M.
Teh•m• No. I
lom Feb. 4L 1111
DI.cl M•J IT, ltOO

1852
Benlamin D. Hyam ........G. M.
·
hnlcle No. I
lorn March I\ 1111
·
Died July 12. 11t3
.
Ch•s. M. bdclifL...D. 6. M.
Addi1011 Martln................G.T.
J. R. McConnelf.._ J. G. W.
Addison Martln ..........- 6 . T.
Levi Stowell_____________&. S.
1853
Charles M. Radcllff..~...G. M.
Tuolumne No.I
lorn Feb.I, 1111
Died Dec. 11, I.,

T. A. Thomas._______ o. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall_S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott........J. G. W.
Addison Martin..._. __ &. T.
Levi Stowell _____&. S.

1854
Willlam H. Howerd ...... G. M.
San Joa• No. 10
Born A119. 29, 1810
Died Sept. II, 116'

Nath. G. Curti1_...... D. 6. M.
Rector E. Cole___s. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood.-........1. G. W.
Addison Martin_____.&. T.
Levi Stowell-----~--6. S.

1855
Wllllam H. Howard ......G. M.
T. A. Thomas ____ O. 6. M.
Jno. A. Raymond_.s. 6. W.
Sam. A. Merritt.-.J. 6. W.
Addison t.Carff11_6 . T.
L.vl Stowell
•· S.

1856
1883
Willlem H. Howerd.-.6· M. William C. Belcher
........6. M.
John A. Reymond .._D. G. M. 611.
B. Clalborne_.... D. 6. M.
Lemuel Lyon____s. G. W.
Louis Coh1L-..S. 6. W.
Peter W. Rendle ......J. G. W.
Addison Mertln.._______ G. T. Wm. A. Davle1-_.J. G. W.
Alex G. Abefl_______ G. S. Jemes Leldley____.6. T.
AIH G. Abelf_____ G, S.
1857
Nethenlel G. Curtis......&. M.
1884
W111hl119ton No. 20
lorn Feb. e 1821
Willlam C. Belcher..._... 6. M.
Died Julr Ii, rm
Gil. B. Clelborne.-.. D· G. M.
Cherle1 Menh-..- .....0. G. M. Wm.
Davles. ___ s. G. W.
Aaron D. Parl-_S. 6. W. Isaac A.
S. Tltus___.J. G. W.
John B. Pope....._____.J. G. W.
Addison Martin _____ G. T. Jemes Leldley...--··-·G• T.
Alex G. Abell _ _ _G. S. Alex G. Abell_ ____&. S.
1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis......&. M.
P. W. Shepheard ____ D. 6. M.
• • Co·rm Ic l .....S' G • W
W m. mc
•
Jes. W. BicknelL.....J. 6. W.
Addison Mertin _ _.G. T.
Alex G. Abell ...._ ........G. S.
1859
Nethanlel G. Curti1......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard..._O. 6. M.
Ebenexer Lene..___S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley._.....J. G. W.
Addison Martin _ _ _G. T.
AIH G. AbelL...._ ....._G. S.
1860
Nethenlel 6. Curtis..-.&. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W.
Alvinu Heywerd.. _.J. 6. W.
Addison Martin _ _ _G. T.
Alex 6. AbelL______ G. S.
1881
Jemes L. Engllsh......- ....6. M.
S.cr•m•nto No. e
lomJune!.i.1113
Died Mer n, 188'

1885
Gilbert B. Claiborne...... 6. M.
Sen
No, It
BornJo•quln
1828
DI.cl Dec. r, 1908

Wrr:. A. DavlH...- ..... 0. 6. M.
Isaac S. Tltu1........_. __ s. G. W.
Henry H. Hartley._J. G. W.
James Leldley_____..6, T,
Alex G. AbelL.--........6. S.

1868
Gilbert 8. Claiborne ......G. M.
Henry H. Hertley...... D. G. M.
Wm. H. Petenon......S. 6. W.
Thomes Bec:~_J. G. W.
James Leldley.... _. ___ G. T.
Alex G. AhelL_.___.6. S.
1867
Williem A. Dav1..____ G. M.
Columble No. 21
Born Feb. 5, 1127
Died June 20, 1916

Henry H. Hertley.. _D. G. M.
Thomas BecL_____.S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt.._J, G. W.
Jemes A. leldley. ___ 6. T.
Alex G. AbelL_____ G. S.

Wm. C. Belcher........ D. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wllcoxon ....J. G. W.
James Leldley___ ........G. T.
Alex G. Abell___........ &. S.
1868
1862
William C. Belcher........ G. M. Charles Marsh .._. _____&. M.
Corinthian No. 6'
Neveda No. 13
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Bom Dec. 6 1121
Died Sept. I, 1895

Died Aprll B, 1176

611. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M. Leonidas E. Pratt_O. 6. M.
John W. Hervllle......S. G. W. Theo. G. CockrllL•..S. 6, W.
John B. Hewso11 ..____J, G. W. Fredk. F. Ba......_.._J, G. W.
James Leldley.____G. T. James ul~ley
G. T.
Alea 6, Aben _ _ _'i, S. Ala
AW.

e.

e. s.

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1869

1878

1883

John M. Browne_ _ &, M. Jonathon D. Hlno1._6, M.
Mounteln Shed• No. 11
Sen luenoventure No. 214
Chas. L. Wiggin _o. 6. M.
lorn AlllJ. 29, llD
lom Jen. I, 1121
Wm. S. Well1--5. 6. W.
Died Oct. 21, I •
Died Dec. JO,
Solon W. Crelgue_J, 6. W. Wiley J. Tlnnln __ o, 6. M.
r...c: s. Titus..___ o. &. M. J•mn
uldley
____
6.
T.
John s. w.rd _ _s. 6. w.
Edm. C. Atkinson._$. 6. W.
Ric:h.,d D•le.--.J. 6. W. AIH G. Ab•ll---···6• S. Hir•m N. Ruc:ker_...I. 6. W.
J•m•1 uldley
6. T.
Moses Heller _ _ _6. T.
1877
Alex G. Abell_ _ _&, S.
Alex G. Abell_._ _6, S.
John M. Browno_....6. M.
1870
ChH. L. Wlg9ln _.D. 6. M.
1884
Leontd•s E. Pr•tt-··-····6• M. Wm. W. Tr•ylor__s, 6. W.
lsHc S. Tltvl_.D. 6. M. Wm. H. Crane__J. 6. W. Jonethan D. Hlnes._._6, M.
ChH. L. Wiggin._..$. 6. W. Moses H•ll•r
6. T. Wiley J. Tlnnln_._o. 6. M.
B•nj. H. frHman_.J, 6. W. Al•x G. AbelL.__ _6. S. Edm. C. Atklnaon-S. 6. W.
J•mH uldley
6. T.
Hlr•m N. Ruc:ur_J. 6. W.
AIH 6. AMfl.____6. s.
1878
Mos" Holler
6. T.
6. S.
John M. Brown.__6, M. Alu G. Abell
1871
L•onides E. Pr•tt___ E;, M. Wm. W. Tr•ylor_.D. 6. M.
Ch ... L Wiggln __... D. G. M. Wm. H. Crane_ _$. 6. W.
1885
len. H. FrHman......S. 6. W. Robt. C. lroder__J, 6. W. Wiley J. Tinnin _ _ _ &, M.
6. T.
G•o. C. Penlns.__J. 6. W. MoH1 H•ll•r
Trinity No. fl
lorn Oct. 7 1829
J•m•s uldley
6. T. Alex 6. Abell____ &. S.
Died New. >f, ltlO
Alex 6. Abell.____6. S.
Edm.
C. Atkln1on __ o, 6. M.
1879
1872
Willi•m W. Tr•ylor__.6, M. Hiram N. Ruc:k•r--..S. 6. W.
Henry H. Knapp_J. 6. W.
L•onld•s E. Pr•tt-......6. M.
C.llfornl• No. I
lorn Morch 17, 1m
·
lenj. H. Freeman ____ D. 6. M.
Nathan W Spaulding _6, T.
Died J.n. II, laJ
G•o. C. Perkins--5. 6. W. S.muel C. Don1on __ D. 6. M. Alex G. Ab•ll._____ 6, S.
John M. lrowno__J, 6. W.
J•m" uldley_ _ _6. T. Cl•y W. T•ylor_S. 6. W.
1881
Alex G. Abef1 _ _ _ 6. S. John Q. Aduns._J. 6. W.
Mo1n H•ll•r
6. T. Edmund C. Atkln1on__ 6. M.
Secrometrfo No. 40
Alex 6. Ab,IL
6. S.
1873
lom New. 17 IU7
l1Hc S. Titus..-·-···-·-&• M.
Died Merc:h :fO, ltll
1880
S.• Juqaln No. It
Hiram N. Ruc:kor_.. D. 6. M.
lorn Oct. 14 Im
Samu•I C. Den1on ___ 6, M. Morris M. Estee_._$, 6. W.
Died April D., 11'2
Union No. U
Alvah R. Conklln._J, 6. W.
6•o. C. PerklnL-.. D. 6. M.
lorn Sept. 23, 1139
Jno. M. Browne..__$, 6. W.
N•than W Spaulding _6. T.
Died July 26, 1917
Ch ... E. Mltc:helL..J. 6. W. Cl•y W. Taylor_...... D. 6. M. Alex 6. Aboll_.. ___...6. S.
J•m•• uldley
6. T. John Q. Ad•ms........S. 6. W.
Alex 6 . Abell____&. S. 0. W, Hollenb•c:L.J. 6. W.
1887
Moses Heller ____ 6, T.
Hir•m N. Rucker __.6, M.
1874
Alex 6. Abell_.,_._6. S.
IA Gr•nve No. "
6•org• C. Penln•--6. M.
lorn Sept. 6J 1144
L•onld•1 E. Pr•tt..--..6. M.

1•

OrOYllle No. IOI

lorn AlllJ. D, lat

ot911 Feli. u.. 1m
John M. Browne_.D. 6. M.
Wm. B. P•rker_ _$, 6. W.
Wll•y J. Tlnnln _ __J. 6. W.
J•m•• uldley
6. T.
Alex 6. Abell
6. S.

1875
John M. Brown•.·-·····-·6. M.
Ne•el No.17
lorn Mey 10, IOI
Died Dec. 7, 11'4

Chu. L Wiggln ...... D. 6. M.
Wll•y J. Tlnnin ..........S. 6. W.
J•cob H. Neff_.....J. 6. W.
JomH uldley____6. T.
Alex G. Ab.it
6. S.

1881

Died Dec. 11, 19GI

Clay W. Taylor.._ ._...... 6. M.
Western Ster No. 2

Morri1 M. Este•.--D. 6. M.
Alveh R. Conklin_._$, 6. W
Wm. Johnston ___J, 6. W.
John Q. Adam1-.... D. 6. M. N•than W Spaulding ..-6. T.
Jon•thon D. Hlno1....S. 6. W. Al.x 6. AbolL.-·-- ····6• S.
Tho1. J. Bow•rL--J. 6. W.
1881
MoH• Hell•r
6. T.
Alex 6. Abell_____&. S. Morris M. Estee._,__6, M.
lorn Sept. 10 1144
Died May I, 1m

1882

511

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

C.llfornl• No. I
lorn Nov. D, llM

Died Oct. 7, ltOI
Cl•y W. T•ylor_ _ _6. M.
Jonethon D. HinH....D. 6. M. Alveh R. Conklln..- .. D. 6. M.
Edm. C. Atkln1on.... _$, 6. W. William Johnston .. _..$, 6. W.
6•orgo Hlnda_ _J 6. W. More. D. loruc:k_. __J. 6. W.
Mom Heller
&. T. Nothen W Spaulding _6, T.
Alex 6 . Abell _ _..6. S. Alas 6. AbelJ_ _ _6, S.

1111

1895

1101

Morrl1 "4. Eat.._ _ 6. M. Edward M. l'rnton-...6. M. Willl•m s. Well•.--.6· M.
Mertlna No. 41
Nov•d9 No. IJ
Willi•m Johnston _o, 6. M.
lorn Jeno 24, 1161
lorn Mey 4, 1141
Died JH, 23, ltlt
ChH. It.. 6ritman.--5. 6. W.
Died April 24, ltOI
Henry S. Onne_J, 6. W. Wm. T. Luca1_ _ 0, 6. M. 0. S. Henderson_D. 6. M.
N•than W Sp.ulding _6. T. ThomH Fllnt_ _ _s, 6. W. Chas. W. Nutti11g _$, 6. W.
Geo. W. Hunter _J, G. W.
AIH 6. Abell
6. S. F. M. Angellotti_ _J, 6. W. Edw.,d Coleman._ _ &. T.
Edw.,d ColemH-.--6• T.
Georg• Johnson _ _6, S. George Johnson ___e. S.
Wm. H. Edward1.___6, L.
1890
Alveh ll. Conklin ____ &. M.
1898
1902
Inyo No. 221
Orrin S. Hond•non .. _6, M.
Wiiiiam
T.
Luc••·-········6•
M.
Born 1135
Mornln9 Ster No. 61
Gudelap• No. 237
Died Oct. I, Im
lorn Jane 2, IW
lorn M•rch II, lllO
Died
June 25, IMI
Willi•m Johnaton _ _o. 6. M.
Died M•rch 21, 1931
Ch ... It.. 6ritrnan_..s. 6. W. Thom•• Flint___.. D. G. M. Ch••· W. Nutting_D, G. M.
Henry S. Ormo.___ J. 6. W. F. M. AngellottL.-5. 6. W. Geo. W. Hunter.-5. 6. W.
Nethan W Sp•ulding ._6, T. Chai. L. Patton__J, 6. W. Motley H. Alnt_.J. 6. W.
6oorge Johnson ___ 6. S. Edw•rd Col•man __ _ 6, T. Edw.,d Colemen___ &, T.
George Johnson _ _6 , S. Goorgo Johnson _ _6, S.
Wm. H. Edw•rd1.___6. L.

1891

Willi•m Johnlton.__..6. M.
Fr•nklln No. 143
lorn Jane 2, 1125
Died Nov. 14, 19GI

1897
Thom•• Flint

Teua No.46
lorn Mey 19~ llU
Died New. la, 1936

1903

6. M. Ch.,les W. Nutting __.. 6. M.
EYenln9 Ster No. IM
lorn Oct. 3 1112
Died Sept. 20, 1917

Ch .. R. Gritman..._.D. 6. M. F. M. AngellottL-.. D. G. M. G•o. W. Hunter __ o. 6. M.
Henry S. Orme __$, 6. W. ChH L. Patton_ _$, 6. W. Motely H. Flint.. _ ..S. 6. W.
JH. B. Stev.ns....-_..J. 6. W. J•s. A. Fosh•y__J. 6. W. Edw. H. Hut____J, 6. W.
N•than W Spaulding __6. T. Edw.,d Col•man _ _ G, T. Edw.,d Colemen _ _&. T.
George Johnson _ _6. S. George Johnson _ _6, 5. 6oorg• Johnson _ _e. S.
Wm. H. Edward1_ _6. L.

1892

1898

Chuln ll. Gritman __6. M.

Frenk M. Angellottl._6, M.

Yount No. 12
lern Dec. 10, Int
Died Mey 14, 11'4

M•rln No. ltl
lorn Sept. 4, 1161
Died M•y 23, 1932

1904

Goorgo W. Hunter_&, M.
Humboldt No. 1'
lom 1854
Died Oct. 14, ltlS

Henry S. Orm•···-···D. 6. M. Chas. L. P•tton __ o. 6. M. Motley H. Flint........ D. 6. M.
JH. B. Stevena__.$. 6. W. JH. A. Foshay.._$, 6. W. Edw. H. Hart--5. 6. W.
Edw. M. Preston..... _.J, G. W. Wm. S. Wells._ _.J, 6. W. Geo. M. Perino __J, 6. W.
N•th•n W Spaulding __ 6. T. Edw.,d Coleman.._ _&, T. Edw.,d Colemen..- - 6 . T.
6oorge Johnson --·-····6• S. 6•orge Johnson ___6. S. George Johnson _ _e, S.
Wm. H. Edwerd1.___6. L.

1893
Henry S. Orrn•-- ··-·-··G· M.
So. C.llfornl• No. 279
lorn Merc:h 21 1137
Died New. 29, lt12

J ... B. SteYenl.-.D· G. M.
Edw. M. Preston._$, 6. W.
Wm. T. Lucas_ _..J. 6. W.
Edw•rd Coleman...·-·-···6• T.
6•orge Johnson --··-6• S.

1894
J•m" B. Stevens _____ &. M.
Yount No. 12

lorn M.rdl 71 1141

Died D.c. 6, tttt
Edw. M. Preaton._.._.D. G. M.
ThomH Aint. ___J, G. W.
Wm. T. LucaL--...S. 6. W.
Edw.,d Coleman ____&. T.
George Johnson _ _6, S.

1899
Ch.,los L. Patton ..- ...... 6. M.
Cellfornl• No. I
lorn 1865
Died April II, Im

1105
Motley H. Flint..._....- ..6. M.
&It 8et. N•. 2'0
lorn Feb. 19, 1161
Died Jely 14, 1930

J11. A. Fo1h•Y--·-···D. G. M. Edw•rd H. Hort... --D. 6. M.
Wm. S. Wells___S, 6. W. 6eo. M. l'erlnL-S. 6. W.
O. S. Henderson_J, G. W. Reuben H. Uoyd_J, 6. W.
Edw•rd ColemH_.__ 6, T. Edwud Coleman_ _ &. T.
6•orge Johnson --·-····6• S. George Johnson - -..6. S.
Wm. H. Ecfwarcls._ _e, L.

1900

J•m•• A. Fo1h•Y·---·····6• M.
So. C.llfornl• No. fll
lorn New. 23, 1116
Died Jen. 14, 1914

I•

Ecfw•rd H. Hart _ _&. M.
Uve Oek No. 61
lorn llSI
Died Sept. 2', ltl7

Wm. s. w.11,___ o. 6. M. 6eo. M. p.,1ne___ o. 6. M.
O. S. Hendonon -5. 6. W. Reuben H. Uoyd_.$, 6. W.
ChH. W. Nuttlng._J, G. W. Qsc., L•wler ----.J. ~. W.
Edw.,d Colemo~G. T. Edward ColemH ___6. T.
George John1on _ _6. S. 6•orge Johnson _ _6. S.
Wm. H. Edward._ _&. L. Wm. H. Edwards__.&. L.

512

1907

1913

1919

6eor9e M. Perlne..- ••..6. M. John D. Murphay___ .6, M. Charles Albert Adams
..G. M.
Peclflc No, I»
Alla No.333
Excolslor No. "'
lorn 1152
Born Julr 7, 11'3
lorn
Nov.
21,
1161
Died Oct. 6, ltn
Died Sept. II, IMI
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. 6. M. Benj. F. Blad1oa..._... D. 6. M. Geo. F. Roddon .•- ... D. 6. M.
Sam. E. Burke.. ___ 6. W.
Otcar Lawler____ .$, G. W. Alb. 6. Bumett
...•- ..S. 6. W.
W. Frank Plerc:e.._•...J. 6. W. F. V. Kea11ing ..._...•...J. 6. W. Wm. A. Sharman....•.J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer. ___&. T.
Edwerd Coleman ___•.&. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...__ 6. T. John
Whlchar_________.. $. S.
George Johnson -·--6· S. John Whlchor. -..·-·········6• S.
Thom111 J. Baker._ ......_._&, L
ThomH J. lek•-····· --··6• L Thom111 J. Bakor....•......... 6. L

s.

1908

1914

1920

George F. Roddon .... _.. 6. M.
01cer Lawler
..
G. M. llenj. F. Bledsoe ·····--··6•
M.
Marin Ho. 191
&d8at.M o.2'0
San
lerMrdlno
No.
141
lom Doc.24, 1167
loro Aprll 2, 1171
Born Fob. I, 1174
Died M1rch I, 1934
W. Frank Plerc:a....._.D. G. M.
Died Oct. JO, 1931
Dana R. Weller __ 6. W. Alb. 6. Burnott.___.D. 6. M. Sam. E. Burk•-···- -··D. 6. M.
A. J. Monroe. _ _J. G. W. F. V. KHslln g--5. 6. W. Wm. A. Sherman...-.S· G. W.
Arthur S. Crltos.•..•._J, 6. W.
Edward Coleman...- .......6. T. W. Rh. Horvoy..........J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Fllmor.....- ...6. T.
John Whkh•'- -··-··-···6 . S. Wm. Parker Filmer........ _6. T.
Thoma1 J. Bakar...- ..•......6. L. John Whlcher- -··-····-··· 6. S. John Whlchar..-·-··········· 6• S.
Thom111 J. Balcer.............. 6. L. Thomas J. Bakor·-··· ···--·6• L
1909
1921
W. Frank Plarce............6. M.
1915
Oakland No. ••
Albert G. Burnett.......•..6. W. Samuel E. Burko......•._..6. M.
lorn Jan. 16, I&
Sunset
No. JS2
Santa R- Ho.17
Died Oct. I, ltlO
lorn Feb. 11, 1'70
Born April t 1156
Dana R. Waller ........ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Shorman ...... D. 6. M.
Died Au41. Ii, Im
A. J. Monroe·- -······$· G. W. F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M. Arthur S. Crltos........S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer _ ..J. G. W. Wm. Rh. Hervey......$. G. W. David J, RHIO..._.• _.J. 6. W.
Edward Coleman...- ....... 6. T. Bradford Webstar....J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmar.....- ...6. T.
John Whlchar -······-····· 6. S. Wm. Parker Filmer...__ G, T. John Whlchar_ _ ........6. S.
Thom111 J. Bak.ar.............. 6. L. John Whlchar...•.........- ...6. S. Thom111 J. Bakor..............6. L.
Thomas J. Baker....... __.. G. L
1910
1922
Dane R. Wellar.. _..........G. M.
1916
Willlam A. Shermen ......6. M.
So. Callfonla No. 271
Francis V. KH1lin9........6. M.
Presidio No. 314
lorn M1rch 24, 1174
Callfornl1 No. I
Born Sept. 17, llllO
Died Jan. t, IM7
Born Feb. 17, 1177
Died Feb. It, IMO
A. J. Monro•··- ·-·····D. G. M. Wm. Rh. Herny...... D. G. M. Arthur S. Crltas........ D.
6. M.
Wm. P. Filmar•.__ G. W. Bradford Webster .... S. 6.
W. David J. R -..........S. 6. W.
J. D. Murphey -·-····J. 6. W. Charles A. Adams ....J. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton ..••....
J. G. W.
Edward Colemen _____&. T. Wm. Parker
Filmor......._.6. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........&. T.
John Whlcher____.6. S. John Whlchar. _______
6. S. John Whlchar ._.•.. ___..6. S.
Thomas J. Bakar.____.G, L.
Thom111 J. B1ker...·-···-···6• L. Thomas J. Balcor.........- •.6. L

s.

s.

1811

1917

1923
Wm. Rhodes Herny.... G. M.
Arthur S. Crites ............6. M.
Pentalphe No. 202
lekenfleld
Bom M1rch 26, lf11
No. 224
Died Oct.
lorn
June "I~, ·1922
lom Fob. 4, 1m
Died Feb. I, 1953
Wm. P. Filmer- -.D. 6. M. Bradford Webster.... D. 6. M. David J. Roesa ........•. D. 6. M.
J. D. Murph•Y --·····S. 6. W. Charles A. Adems ....S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton...••...$. G. W.
llanj. F. Bled1oa..._...J. 6. W. Geo. F. Rodden __ ...J. G. W. Geo. L JonH-·-·· -···J• G. W.
Edward Coleman.._____ G. T. Wm. Parker Filmar... _.....
6. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.....- 6 . T.
John Whlcher. ---···-·-··· 6. S. John Whlcher....._••.....•...6. S. John Whlchar. -••.••.•...-6. S.
Thomas J. Baker--·····-··6 . L. Thomes J. Bakar..·--··-··6• L Thomes J. Bak•r·-·-· ··-·-6• L
Alonzo J. Monroe.......... 6. M.
Humboldt No. 79

1912

1918

Wm. P. Filmer........... - ...6. M. Bradford Webster ........G. M.
1Cln41 Solomon No. 260
LIYeOek No. 61
lorn March 2, 1866
lom Dec. 14, 116'
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Died Jana 4, 1941
Jno. D. Murphey...... D. 6. M. Charles A. Adams .... D. G. M.
Banj. F. Bled1oe........S. 6. W. Geo. F. Rodden ...-.S. G. W.
Alb. 6. Burnett __.J, G. W. Sam. E. Burk•-··- ···J• G. W.
Edward Coleman......_._&. T. Wm. Parker Filmar....-.G. T.
Joh11 Whlcher
6. S. John Whlcher_ _•___6, S.
Tliomu J. Beker.- .--6. L. Thomas J. Bak•·-· ··-6• L

513

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

1924
David J. Reese ..............&. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Au9. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 19J4
Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. 6. M.
Goo. L JonOL- .-..S. 6. W.
Will H. Rscher ____J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer.•.__ 6. T.
John Whlcher_ _ _ S.
Thom11 J. Baker_ _ _&, L

e.

\925

1931

1937

Albert E. loynton .. _ •. 6. M.
Orovlll• Mo.IQ
lorn Oct. t, 1171
Died Fa. 22, 1941
Goo. L Jono1- .-D. G. M.
Will H. Flscher _ _ G. W.
&us. A. Hutaff_ _ .J, 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor_ _.6. T.
John Whlchar
.•6. S.
Thom•• J. lakor. ___.G. L

Robt. I. Gaylord ...- •..6. M.
Oeklend Mo. 111
lorn Nov. 24, 1176
Died Au41. 4, 1'51
Frank W. Mlxtar_.. D. G. M.
James B. 6i1t_ _ .S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton.·-· -··J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor- -•.G. T.
John Whichor.____.•.G. S.
Thomes J. Balcor.•.....•.--G· L.

James T. Fr11or.-- ··-··6• M.
Humboldt No. 79
lorn Au41. 21, 1161
Died June 26, 1'53
Loon 0. Whihall.._.. D. 6. M.
William H. Waste ....S. G. W.
William B. Ogdon....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.-.....G. T.
John Whichor._____.6. S.
Leslie E. Wood ..•·-···-·-·6 . L

s.

1928

6aor90 L Jon _ _ _..6. M.
MedhonN e.D
lorn May 11, 1171
Will H. Fi1char_.. D. 6. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff__•....S. 6. W.
C. M. Wollonba rg__J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...- .....&. T.
John Whichar
..6. S.
Thom•• J. Bak•r·--· ···--G· L

1927
Will H. Fischor..--···6. M.
Wll1hlre No. 445
lorn Sept. 11, 1171
Died Oct. 4, 1'53
Gus. A. Hut•ff....-.D. G. M.
C. M. Wollanba rg....S. G. W.
J. S. Rou _ __.J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmar_ _.G. T.
John Whichar_ _ _ _ 6. S.
Thomas J. Baker..·-····-···&• L

1928
Gu1tav A. HutafL....... G. M.
Dun1mulr No. 2'7
lorn Oct. 5, 1179
Died Oct. 17, 1911
C. M. Wollanbe rg. ... D. G. M.
J. S. Ross-·--·· ··-·-.S· 6. W.
Robt. B; Gaylord _.J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....- ....&. T.
John Whicher -······-···6 · S.
Thom11 J. Bakor.-·· ·--···6· L.

1929

C. M. Wollenbe rg ........&. M.
Starr 1Cln41 No. J44
lorn Mari:h 13, 1171
John S. Roll-··- ··D. G. M.
Robt. B. 611ylord....-S. G. W.
Frank W. Mlzter._ .J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......- ..&. T.
John Whichar
..6. S.
Thomas J. Balcer-·-·········G• L.

1930

John Stewart Ross ··--··G· M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21 1879
Died Au;. J 1, 1952
Robt. B. Gaylord ...... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter._ ...S. G. W.
James B. Glst...- - J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor...•-.G· T.
John Whlc hor--6 . S.
Tliomu J. Baker_ _ _ &. L

1938

1932
Frank W. Mlxtar.- ·-·-G. M.
&eterNo.424
lorn Dec. 30, 1171
Died May 22, 1947
James B. GisL_.•. D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ___ 6. W.
R. V. Whiting ..--·····J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- -..G. T.
John Whichor._____.6. S.
Thomas J. Baker _____G. L

s.

1933
Jam•• B. 6lsL-·-· -··6• M.
Pentalphe No. 202
lomAu41.l, l161
Died Aprll 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting .... _...... D. G. M.
Earl Warran .. _____ G. W.
Rollie W. Millor...___J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer_____ 6. T.
John Which•r -·-···-·-·G . S.
Thomes J. Bakor_ _ _6. L.

s.

1934

Leon O. WhitsalL .._...G. M.
Oran9e Grove No. 2'J
lorn July ID, 1176
William H. Wasta .... D. G. M.
William B. Ogdon....S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wllson._ ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- •.... G. T.
John Which•r· -···-·-·--·6 • S.
Leslie E. Wood.·-· ··-·--G· L

1939
William B. Ogden ....- ..6. M.
Hollywood No. 151
lorn Au41. 26, 1176
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Uoyd E. Wll1on.__ .. D. 6. M.
Frank M. Smtth...•.-.S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood .._ ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...____ &. T.
John Whichar______ 6. S.
Welter Loonard .............. 6. L

1940

Randolph V. Whiting .... G. M.
KlnQ Solomon No. 260
Born NOY. 10, 1&70
Died Feb. 4, 1952
Eerl Warren ____ D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller__...S. G. W.
James T. FralOr--·- ·J• G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whiche r.--·--··6 . S.
Leslie E. Wood-·- ·····-··6. L.

Uoyd E. Wilson ..........- ..6. M.
ln9lnlde No. 630
Born Au41. 16, 1895
Frank M. Smith.._ ... D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ... _ ..S. G. W.
Claude H.Morrison .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..... _...&. T.
John Whichor...•...._____ 6. S.
Walter Leonard .......--..6. L

1935

Frank M. Smith ..............G. M.
East Gate No. 2'0
Born April I, 11'4
Died Aprll 7, 1911
Leslie E. Wood .......... D. G. M.
Claude H. Morri1on ..S. 6. W.
G. C. DoForast...•....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor.. _ ...6. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......._•._.G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........ <O. L

Earl Werren _______ _ 6. M.
Sequoia No. J4t
Born March If, 1191
Rollie W. Miller___D. G. M.
James T. Fr111ar... ___ G. W.
Leon 0. Whihell... ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer._.__6. T.
John Whicher.•.---······G • S.
Leslie E. Wood. _ _ _6. L

s.

1936
Rollie W. Miller..- ..- .. &. M.
Sunset No. 352
lorn Oct. 17, 1813
James T. Fr11ar.__... D. G. M.
Leon O. Whitsell.. _.$, G. W.
William H. Weste ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.. ___ .&. T.
John Whlc:her
6. S.
Leslie E. Wood -.--6· L

1941

1942
Laslie E. Wood·-·· ·-·····6· M.
Provident No. 609
Born Aprll 2, 1197
Claude H. Morrison .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kollay..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmor•••___ 6, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson. _ _&. S.
Chaster H. Warlow__ , L
8

514

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1943

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1947

1951

Chester H. Warlow.._&, M.

Louis C. Drapeou._ _Q. M.

Gilbert C. Deforest.. D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillot..J. G. W.
Francis V. Kffslin9_6. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson_ _ _ G, S.
Chester H. Warlow_.&. L

Edward H. Siems_D. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer•.___S, 6. W.
Arthur Paulsen..__.I. G. W.
Francis V. Keeslin9_6. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson ___.&, S.
Arthur M. Warren ___ .&, L.

Arthur M. Warren .. D. G. M.
Frank Harwell, Jr-.S. 6. W.
Henry C. Clou1en....J. 6. W.
Frencis V. KH1lln9..- 6 . T.
Lloyd E. Wllson__________E;, S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky 6. L.

1944

1948

1952

Edward H. Slam1....- ..6. M.

Arthur M. Warren ........6. M.

Claude H. Morri10n-6. M.
S..n Dleao No. •
Bom Jufr 10, 1117
Dlod Nov. 2, ltSJ

Gilbert C. DeForost--..6. M.
Readlnt;1 No. 254
Born Sept. 18, 1889
Died Jen. 25, 1952

Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore_ _J. G. W.
Francis V. Keeslln9 ___6, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .. ___ G. S.
Chester H. Werlow___ E;, L

1945
Lawrence C. Kelley ..- .. G. M.
Pentelpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oct. 24, 1945

Arthur W. BrouilleL... G. M.
Park No. 449
Born J.n. 21, 1114
Died Sept. II, 1953

John R. Moore..._S. 6. W.
Francis V. KHslln9_6. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson__ _ &, S.
Chester H. Warlow____E;, L

1946

John R. Moore ..__ ,___ G, M.
Meridian No. 667
11oni Sopt. 119J

C1-ter H. Warlow..D. G. M.
Edward H. Siems.._.S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer..__.J. G. W.
Francis V. Keeslln9_.6, T.
Uoyd E. Wllson.. _____ G. S.
Arthur M. Werren ..........G. L.

Fresno No.247
Born Jun• 30, 1119

Plymouth No. 5'0
lorn Doc:ombor 7, ltol

Ellsworth Meyer..._ .. D. G. M.
Arthur P..ulsen.____s, G. W.
Louis C. Drapeau__J. 6. W.
Francis V. Kaeslin9._....6. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ... _.......6. S.
Arthur M. Warren .._ ..&. L

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ___ 6. M.
Llber•I Arts No. '71
Born Fob. 27, I •

Arthur Paulsen..- .... 0. G. M.
Louis E. DrapHU-..S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren •...J. 6. W.
Francis V. Keoslin9 ... _... 6. T.
Lloyd E. WillOn........- ....6. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky 6. L

1950
Arthur PaulMn _ _ 6, M.
Trinity No. 71

Born M•Y 4, IMO

Louis C. Drapeou_D. 6. M.
Arthur M. Warren ....S. G. W.
Frank Harwell, Jr_J, 6. W.
Francis V. Keesling __&, T.
Uoyd E. Wllson_,_ _ 6, S.
Welter H. E. von Konsky 6.L

1955
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr•.... G.M.
!-oYelty No. 129

Born Oct. 3, 1901
L. Harold Andenon .. D.G.M.
Leo E. Andenon ...- ... S.G.W.
Phil N. Myen .._________J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems.-.........6.T.
Lloyd E. Wllson ................ G.S.
Elbert W. Davl1........._...6.L

LIST OF INSPECTORS

Polnsettl• No. m
lorn AUQ. JO, 1•

Mt. Davidson No. •I
lorn December 71, Ital

Frank Harwell, Jrh ... D. G. M.
Henry C. Clausen ....S. G. W.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. J. 6. W.
Francis V. KH1lln9 .._ ...6. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .._____ &, S.
Elbert W. Davis____ &, L

1953
Frank Harwell, Jrh..._.6. M.
Beverly Hiiis No. 528
Born October 4, 1898

Henry C. Clausen.... D. G. M.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr-S.G. W.
L Harold Andenon ..J.G;W.
Francis V. Kee11ln9 _____ 6. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ____&, S.
Elbert W. Davia
6. L

1954
Henry C. Clausen.....- ...6.M.
lnt;1lesldo No. 630
Born Juno 30, In

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr... D.G.M.I
L Harold Andanon ....S.G.W.
Leo E. Andenon ..........J.G.W.
Edward H. SlemL.............G.T.
Lloyd E. Wil1on .....- -.....6.S.
Elbert W. Davts______..6.L

515

lrupecior1

Date o/ Commission

John M. Icardo-..- ................................- .......January, 1921 ..........................- ••.380
S. Leslie Hawken ..........................- .......January 27, 1925................................JM
Clarence L. Fraser...................................December, 1927..........................- ...414
Wm. S. Thompson............................................March, 1928.......... ~ .....................412
Rudolph Mohr, Jr..........................-.-·..January, 1929................................
Geo. P. Salm -------··---···-····· ·--__June 14, 1930-.................. ___538
Niles 0. !4lllar_........................._. __ .......July, 1932...........................- ...348
Thomas B. Pollard........................................January, 1933...........................- ...318
H. R. Hargrave.....- .............................September 15, 1934................................418
John Behrens ·---·---------··---·----·----·__January 2, 1935.........................- ..Jl?S
Chas. S. Hogan ................................................... .April, 1935..- ..................___108
Carl C. Mikesell. .............................................October, 1935-.............................604
Sainuel Dollar ...........................................December, 1935................................418
Willard G. Babcock................................January 10, 1936...........................--818
Jaines W. Robinson............................ _.__January, 1936....................... ____.2()6
Williain C. Gover................................. _____Qctober, 1936.-......................- ...110
Carl F. Petera....- .................................. .November 1, 1936.................................334
George S. Ward..-.................................. .January 1, 1937................................104
Fred Weed
. _ .................................September, 1938...................-...........M2
Guido de Ghetaldi-.........................--October, 1938-...................... _..308
Roy S. Lent.hall........_ ..................................January, 1939................................JM
J. Wesley Sibole...- ............................- .....December, 1939................................224
Harold S. Morrison...............................December 1, 1940-..........................!512
Henry Kaiaer----.....................-----April 1, 1941-.................... _ Q
Rolla L. Eubanks--............................._ .....April, 1941....... - ...................-.320
Miles J. McClelland...........................- .......March 10, 1942...-......................- ••.218
Elmer M. Hopper..._ ..........................-.. . May 10, 1943.......................- .......30f
Henry S. Sa'Vage, Jr-..------·----·-·..
.July 4, 1943--.....................- ..2162
Melvin R. Berbower............................November 10, 1943.......................- ...D&
Frederic E. Clark..--··---·---·---··--..--January 26, 1944...- ...........................630
Ray W. Mclntyre....- ......................- ...........March 8, 1944.........................._ ...J'lf
John Ramaay-----·----- --------···---·.July 6, 1944..-..................__.620
Dwight C. Freeman.._..................---..March 2, 1945-...................___Ma
Jaines B. Lawson.--.............................. _.....March 6, 1945................................'28
Arch Balchin..----------··-----..-----..March 27, 1945..................- ..- ..•Ut
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................September 27, 1945....................... ____.JU
Alexander Duncan
--------------·--·---Octo ber 9, 1945-...........................JIOl
Robert W. Nicol--....-----··-···· ----..October 24, 1945---·-·-------·---- 811
Louis L. Cunningham................................August 2, 1946...........................- ...aat
W. Ralph Anderson...........................- ...November 4, 1946................................880
Frank W. Johnson..._ ......................... .November 21, 1946................... -----··•
John A. Crosbie-........................ - .... .November 21, UK6...
Ray R. Bell
·---------------·-- -.April 7, 1947...............-----------.llt
Stephen E. Skidmore...- .................._______.April 7, 1947.................. _________80$
Fred C. Pritschke.________________________.April 7, llt47.......................____
Harry Burrows -·-·----....................December 15, 1947.......................- - Russell Northrop._________________ December 20, 1947..- ..................----'It
Frank R. Killinger, Jr........................December 29, 1947................................
Howards. Kaulbach...........................December 29, 1947................................ .
Stanley Hurst Wentz........................- .......March 16, 1948.-..................
tM
Roy T. Kiele ....·-·---·-----------.A pril 22, 1948.................................141

3,.

-·-·----··-·----*

516
lnapector•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date of Commi,.ion

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

517

Date of Commi11ion

Dbfrid

Dktrlcl

William T. Rodger....·-···-·······-····-··-····-··-.April 22, 1948..·-··-··-······-··-···-··628
Robert N. Walker....·-···-···-············-········-··.July 28, 1948..·-········-··········-···368
Elmer Glen Van Tassell............... _...September 11, 1948..·-··············-······-···112
Reginald Reynolds....·-··········-············.November 5, 1948..·-··-··-······-······-···108
Albert E. Carroll.....-·-················-··········.January 7, 1949...................- ...........610
Louis H. Mahler....·-······-················-··-···January 31, 1949..·-······-··········-·······1520
Orin Compton.................................- .......February 9, 1949..·-··-··-···················420
John A. Owen. ..·-··-····-······-······--··············.May 16, 1949......·-··········-······-··.550
Chas. A. Thomassel............................- ..- .....June 28, 1949..................·-······-···1570
William Nankervis, Jr...................·-··-·······.June 30, 1949......·-··-······-··-·······362
Wilson Ernest Lathrop..............·-······--···October 1, 1949..........·-··-··-······-····UO
Robert H. Taylor..................·-······-······.November 7, 1949..·-··············-··-····-..348
Maurice E. Coffey..·-·-··-··-······-··-··-···January 16, 1950..............·-··-······-···342
Earl Caldwell... __ .....................................January 16, 1950..·-··········-···············324
Delbert E. Luck..·--··-············-····-··-··-·--·.April 14, 1950..·-··-········---····-···406
Elmer R. Lotz..·--····-··-··-··············-··-···-·-.April 14, 1950..........·-··············-···1522
Elvin C. Drake...·-············-··-··-····-··---·.April 14, 1950·--··-··-··············-··.526
John Bright.-················-············-········-··-··-··.May 8, 1950..........................._...602
Anson McArthur........·-····-·-·-·----·.May 8, 1950..·-······-··-··-······--.15152
Chas. W. Lunsford..................·-··············-····-.May 8, 1950..·-······-··············--·.556
Martin 0. Veland...·-········-··············-···-·---.May 8, 1950..·-······-··-··········--·.5158
Paul Thompson....·-······-··············-···-·-···-····.May 8, 1950..•.............................1562
Myron E. Roudebush...... ·--········-····--··-··--·.May 8, 1950..·-··-··········-··-··-···626
W. Ben Sorrells...- ..························-····-······-··.May 8, 1950..·-······-···················634
Hugh D. Good..·--··--······-··············--··-···-.May 8, 1950.......- .......................638
Ted R. Siems....·-··-·-········--··············--·-.MaY 8, 1950..........·-··············-···614
Leland E. Wallace................................September 7, 1950..........·-··············-··.204
Walter Edward Sanner......................November 24, 1950......·-··········-·······-··326
Frank W. Raddatz....._........................ .November 24, 1950................................546
Olen F. Turner....·-·····--················-··.November 24, 1950...........................- ...630
Joseph Myron Ruggiero....... - ...........December 21, 1950......................•.... ___ 332
Guy S. Harts, Sr...·-··-························.December 21, 1950·--······-···················1508
J. Ralph DawdY·····-··-························-·.January 26, 1951................................422
Andre L. Armand...-························-··.January 26, 1951................................376
Jack Walton Leishman..................................May 18, 1951...........- ...................337
Loren Alton Lloyd-_············-··-··-··--······.May 18, 1951..·-······-··-··-··········.370
George H. Olmsted.......................- .........October 18, 1951........................... _...216
Reginald Bunce...................................- ...October 23, 195L................................545
Charles Joseph Savage..........................November 6, 1951-....·-··········-···········640
Kent 0. Seymour..·--·-······-··-······-··.November 15, 1951....•.·-······-······-··-··.314
Carl F. La Vo......·-··-··-······-··-······-··.December 15, 1951.•......•.·-··-······-····-..368
Carroll C. Doane......·-··-·······-·············-··.January 1, 1952......·-··················-···307
Ralph Geo. Rlches...-··-··-······-······-··-··.January 10, 1952..·-··-······-···············385
Ballard White, Jr...........·-················-··.December 12, 1951......·-··········-··-·······120
Orval A. Myers..·-··················-······-··.December 12, 1951..........·-··············-·-118
Kenneth C. Stanley..................................February 7, 1952................................636
Wilfred W. Partridge............·-··········-··-··.March 31, 19152.......................- .......502
Lynn A. Blackmun... _.................................March 31, 1952..·-··············-··········.503
Edward Farley····-·-··--···-·-···-··-··-·-······.May 12, 1952..................·-··-··-·.208
Burrell Clifford Jull_···-···-······-···-···-····-··.May 12, 1952-·-··-······-··-······-··.212
Harry K. WidUP-···-············-··-····-··.November 10, 1952..·-······-··············-··.344
James A. Drace...·---··············-····-·.November 14, 1952..·-······-······-······-··.228
Milton H. Lang--····-········-····-·········..November 14, 19152·--······-··········-··-··.540
J. Harry Snowden..·-··--··-----December 9, 19152..·-··-······-··-··-···808

l11apector1

Fred L. Ferguson......................................January 1, 1953...- ...........................618
Henry P. Lawhom.....-········-················.January 19, 19153-•.............................1566
John F. KnighL·-·····-··--··-··-···-·--··.January 19, 1953...........................- ...372
Paul F. Ruff·--····-································.February 4, 1953.•..............................361
Harry IL Aiman........................_.................. .March 2, 1953..·-······················-···644
Paul A. Hackler........................•.................March 26, 1953.......................... _....330
Samuel Steelman..................................... _...April 17, 1953................................528
Clarence A. Trowbridge.........-................... .June 18, 1953................................300
Lester Totten..·-····-············-··············-··-··.June 23, 1953...........................- ...114
Sam LoveIL-..-································-··········.June 25, 1953... - ...........................214
Robert Edgar..·-··-······-··········--······-··-··.August 27, 1953................................384
Ray Earl Burdg....·-··--·············-····-·····September 5, 1953..........·-··············-···217
James E. Finley....·--············-··-·····-·······October 10, 1953..·-······················-··.328
Albert Kiechle............................................October 26, 1953................................572
E. Lloyd Hanson..........................................January 1, 1954................................350
John H. Ferguson........................................January 1, 1954................................622
Raymond Glenn Hollar..............................January l, 1954................................220
Milton Hoffe Sharp..................................February 1, 1954................................210
Gordon F. Porter................................... .February 10, 1954................................514
Claiborn Schonhoff......................................March 12, 1954................................402
Wallace H. Fiske..........................................March 12, 1954........................... _...404
Fred Walker Waitman..................................April 19, 1954................................518
Hugh M. Topping............................................April 19, 1954................................568
Paul A. Wilson..................................................June 1, 1954............................... .510
Norbert Peter Tester......................................June 30, 1954................................646
Otto F. Link........................................... .November 17, 19154................................215
Ralph W. Collins....................................December 15, 1954................................515
Ray Smith................................................December 15, 1954................................554
Charles M. Coffland....................................January 1, 1955................................564
Palmer A. Wells..........................................January 7, 1955................................ 222
Charles C. Wan'en. .....................................January 7, 1955................................308
Clarence C. Smith......................................January 7, 1955................................338
John D. Miller..............................................January 7, 1955................................340
William J. Williams....................................January 7, 1955................................516
Alva A. Daniells........................................January 13, 1955................................427
Henry Drashner......................................February 14, 1955................................504
Jay Noviack........................................................April 8, 1955................................109
William C. Brouillard......................................April 8, 1955...................... - ........116
Adolph H. Franzen............................................May 1, 1955................................336
Harry L. Muller................................................May 11, 1955................................319
Edward C. Will ..............................- ...............July 14, 1955................................367
Frank Leroy Sutliff......................................August 9, 1955................................567
Edward M. Stitz..........................................August 29, 1955................................519
LeRoy S. Pinkham. ............................... September 9, 1955................................506
Carl E. Moore................................................October 3, 1955................................432

518

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
R.eogniHtl ""'1 ;,, Pf'tZlwnM R•Ldions wi1h lh•
Grantl Lodg• of CJifOf'tli.

Argentina:
Alcibiades Lappas, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Bolivia:
Teofilo Aguilar Lopez, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 584,
La Paz. Bolivia.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Fernando De Lemos Falcone, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Jacy Garnier de Bacellar, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFleury, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.,
Caixa Postal 2811, Sao Paulo, Brazil
The Grand Lodl!'.e of the State of Ceara
Walfredo Silva, Grand Secty.
Caixa Postal 78, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Eslu Eloy, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Para
Dr. Arthur Napoleao Figueiredo, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Grand Secretary
Rua Visconde de Morais No. 60, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Carlos Barcelos Fagundes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 883, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Estanislau Martinez Barra!, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil
Canada1

AlbertaEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbfaJ. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Canada-(Province of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.•
P. 0. Box 21'1, Hamilton. Ontario.
ManitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswfckR. D. Ma1ee. Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotlaReginald V. Harri& Grand Secty.•
Freemasons' Hall. Halifax, Nova Scotia
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112. Charlottetown, P. B. L

QuebecR. W. Louthood, Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate. Grand Seety.,
P. 0. Box 248, Regina, Sas~tchewan.
Chiles
Cesar Bunster C., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 288'1, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
David W. K. Au, Grand Secty.,
Alford House, 2, Upper Albert Road, Hong Kong, B.C.C.
Colombia:
•
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
National Grand Lodge of Barranquilla
The Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander''
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena

Costa Bica1
Enrique Chaves Bolanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1052, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba. Isle of1
Dr. Jose F. Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
•csecho-Slovakla1
Grand Lodge Lessing at Prague-National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovalda at Prague.
Demnark1
National Grand LodteEinar Hoeg, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.

519

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ecuadorr
S. Clemente Perez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Casilla No. 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S. A.
Egypt&

The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Sayed Kamil El Sharkawy,
Beite Postale No. 1714, Cairo, Egypt.
El Salndor (Cuscatlan):
Dr. Carlos Munoz B., Grand Secty.,
2a Calle Oriente No. 27, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England:
Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Finland:
Waino Sola, Grand Secty.,
P. Esplanaadik 35E, Helsinki, Finland.
1)-ance:
French National Grand Lodge,
L. F. Poirson, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
The Grand Lodge of France,
Georges Marty, Grand Chancellor
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodge of Germany,
Walther Schiffman, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 16288, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Greec:e:
Dr. Panayiotis Hadjipetros, Grand Secty.,
19 Acharnon St., Athens, Greece
Guatemala:
Carlos Bianchi, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A.
Honduras:
Miguel Angel Zelaya, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 28, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C. A
Ireland:
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
E. Dubinsky, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Enzo Minutillo, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 1, Rome.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Carl E. DeVries, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Miguel L. Pimentel, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 42, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
.
Prudencio Olivares, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
.
Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Ruben Marquez Romo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Filemon Arbiol Campos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Arnulfo T. Sobrevilla, Grand Secty.,
.apanatto Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherlands:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. P. J. vanLoo, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluweelen Burgwal. The Hague.
Hew South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Hall, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hew Zealand:
F. G. Northern, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1833, Wellington C. I., New Zealand.
Nicaragua:
.
.
Greg A Tapia, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Morway:
Odd Lie-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Voldgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
Nathan A. Reid, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.
Peru1
Cesar Cevallos Villacorta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2190, Lima, Peru.

521

522

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Phlllpplne hlandu
Mauro Baradi, Grand Secty.,
820 San Marcelino. Manila. P. l
Puerto Rico:
E. Isales, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurce, Puerto Rico.
~eemland:

E. G. Radford, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.

Scotlaud:
Alexander P'. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty..
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
Erik Bottiger, Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden. Blasieholmagatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Swiherland:
Grand Lodge Suisse Alpina,
Col. Paul Wittmer, Grand Secty.,
· Erlachstrasse 9, Berne, Switzerland.
Tumanla:
H. A. Wilkinson. Grand Secty.,
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venezuela:
P. A. Ruiz Paz-Castillo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodee.
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.

•Vienna:

w..tern Australia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Western Australia.
•Yugosla'rias
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croata & Slovenes.
.

•Rec«?gnized by the Gr!llld Lodge of California prior to being rendered

~operative before an~ durmg World War Il, subsequent to which no resump-

tion of fraternal relations has been effected.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES

A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682); Barstow.
Bay City (526)t San Francisco.
Bay View (401J, Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellftower (523), Bellftower.
Belmont Shore (716), Seal Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.

Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Channel (U.D.) , Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111). Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.

523

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Chowchilla (485), ChowchfilL
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Claude H. Morrison (747),
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Chula Vista.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Compass (590), Pomona.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywarcla.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Eve~een (259), Riverside.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
El Rancho (U.D.), Whittier
Exeter (424), Exeter.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722)1 Campbell.
George Washington l525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733 , Sacramento.

Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mila.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hamilton (751), Novato.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37), Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
San Francisco.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach (380),
Highland (748), Highland.
Huntington Beach.

I
Illlnoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest.
Ione (80), lone.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.

525

James A Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.

526

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICA L µ8T OF LODGES-Contin ued

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued
N

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
La Canada (739), La Canada.
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Fayett.e (126), Sebastopol
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Laguna Beach (672)l.Laguna Beach. Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
La Habra (659), La nabra.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mesa (407). Le Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Lorenzo (709), Hayward.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Los Altos (812), Palo Alto.
La Puenta (446), Puenta.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco. Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Lemon Grove (736), La Mesa.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu, T. H.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnolia Park 715), Burbank.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morningside Park (742), Inglewood.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mother Colony (750), Anaheim.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mountain View (194),
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mountain View.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Merced (749), Merced.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Military Service (570), San Francisco. Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mineral King (720), Visalia.

527

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Northern California Research
Lodge (U.D.), San Francisco.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.

Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265). Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353). Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), No. Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R

Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.

Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

528

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank,
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.

•

Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s

Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Selma (277), Selma.
Saint John's (724), Walnut Creek.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka,
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
Service (594), Long Beach.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino.Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
San Diego (35), San Die~o.
Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood.
San Dimas (428), San Dunas.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando. Sincerity (132), Greenville.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco. Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
Sojourner (507), Duarte.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Soquel (746), Soquel
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Southern California (278),
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
Los Angeles.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Boulder Creek.
Southern California Research
San Marino (685), South Pasadena.
Lodge (U.D.), Hollywood.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo
South Pasadena (367),
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
South Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
South San Francisco (212),
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Francisco.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
South West (283), National City.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Speranza Italiana (219),
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Francisco.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Standard (440), Oakland
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Starr King (344), San FrancJsco.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Los Olivos Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks, Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
T. H.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Seafaring (708), Costa Mesa.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

529

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapl
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
.
Temple City (612), Temple. City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Torrance (447), Torrance.
Travelers (692), Sacramento.

Traver (294), Kings?urg.
Triangle (548), Vemce:
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trana.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los A?geles.
Tujunga (592), TuJunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (32.9), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), ValleJo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nu:ys.
Veritas (640), San FranclScO.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.

Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bl,uff. .
Victorville (634), V1cto~ille.
Victory (474), s.an rranclSCO.
Visalia (128), V1Salia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Westwood
Warren G. Harding (579),
White Pine(501),
(555),Westwood.
Weed.
North Sacramento.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Willits (365), Willits.
Washington (20), S~ci:amento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Willow Glen (676), S~n ~ose.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wilshire (445), Los A~geles.
Westchester (703), Los An~eles. k
Winnedumah (287), BlSh?P·
West Covina {U.D.), Baldwin Par
Woodridge (131), Woodridge.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
West Gate
gel1es.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.
Lake (335),
(392), Los
Los AnAnge
es. ·
West
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), Los Angeles.

Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.

530

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

INDEX

531

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT

INDEX FOR 1955

ANNOUNCEMENT

A

Reviews of the Proceedings of other ·Grand

~~~~~~c!:~;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:~~ i~

Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "California Freemason", two copies of which have been
sent to each Grand Lodge. This program will be
continued.
The "California Freemason" will be issued quarterly and each issue will carry additional reviews.
Hence, they do not appear in these Proceecllngs.

Page

Alternate Commissioners
(See Amendment Section 299)
Amendment of Monitor

·

~=~~nR~~ c~~tte~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:~::=:::::::=:==::::: 2~~
1

Amendments to By-Laws
Reported
Grand Seaeciiry.·-·-·······-·········································-···················-········ 126
Approved y Committee..............................................................
................................. 320
Annual Communication Date
(See Amendment Section 31 )
Annual Election
··-·-··············-·····- ······-·················-· ···--··-·········-········ ····· 366
Annual Returns

bb

Audit -

--···-·············-················-································································· 372

~~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~A~

Appendix
General ----·············· •···················-- ···-·····-·-·--········ ······-····-·······---· 437
Special ----··-·--·············· ···················-······ ·························· ······················-··· ·· 369
Application Fees Tabulated................................
..............:..........- ................................... 486
Application Form Qaedaa 13
(See Interpretatbraf Sectsao 223.13)
(See Repeal of Sedliaa 49f (b) )
Appointment of Chaplain
(See Repeal of Section 452)
Appolntmenta by Grand Master
OIBcers -·······-···········································································································- 366
Committeemen --'·---·····-·········-············-···-··-·-····-····-·····"····-············-A• 36
Inspectors ·-·
············-···············-···········-···············-·······-··········-··-·- 36
t,V::tan11'1d'~1:i~
~=·················--·····-··················-········-·······················-- 32
Grand MQter'a Rec:omDlendation................................................. ~---···························- 31

~=~ ~ =a~~~~~:::::.·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::: ~~

Attendance
Reported ···-···········-···················-···················-·············································-·············· 241
Listed -·--···-···········-································································· ···············-···················· 446
Audits
1955 Returns ·························································································-························· 446
Grand Lodge ·········-········-············································-··· ··········-·-····-···-·············-··-· 372
Masonic Homes --·--··············-······ ··························· ····································-·-··· 386
Memorial Temple
···-··············--································································ 414
Automatic Coo.tinuaQW ol 08apemat100
(See Amendment ol Sectlaa 1H)
Automatic Expulsion
(See Amendment of Section 332)

B
Biography, Henry Christian Cbuuen....·-·································-···················--····--··-·
Board of Control
·

~:r~ri:;e;;;;t;;··~~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
~=eL~!t~-~~:::::::::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

INDEX

532

533

INDEX

Page
Page
395
·················-···
-·····-···-··-·······-·································
~~~;:;n Scholarship Fund Audit...
Comparlaon with Expenditures, 195.f-55--··········-··················································-- 383
For 1955-56 - - - - - · - ····-·····---·····························-·-········--·····-··-·--193, 370
Building and Loan hfveabnents
(See Amendments of Sections 86.1 and 152.1)
Burke, Ral_ph A., Appeal bY-····························································-··············-·············· 356
Buttrick, George Howe, Honored. ....................................................................-............... 8
·
By-Laws

::$~~=~~:=::::::: : : : : : : : : : :=: : : :: : :::::::::::::::::::::~::.::::::::::::::::: !~g
c

California Freemason
Report of ~ence Committee·-······································-·····----···-····· 226

~~d;~~a:~rt eport..-...:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3~;

California Masonic Code
Legislation Recommended -···············································-·······-······-············-···-·- 284
Report of Policy Committee.---·····························-·······································-··--· 352
California Maao.a.lc: Memorial Temple
Report of Committee on...........- ..................................................................................... 108
Report of Temple Corporation-................ ·-···································---·-··--········--·- 107
Legislation Proposed -······-····- ····················'····-······-··········-····-··-8 1, M, 87, 9.f, 353
Action on Legislation..-·-·--················-··-·-·-····-······-····-·····--9.f• 339, 3.fO, 353, 364

~'::di= R!~:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::-.:: !1~

Ground Brealdn~onY-··-··········· .. ··..··'··-····---·................._...........-··-·-····- 256
rBDl-...·-············--·······················-·-····-··· ······-················- 364
Endorsement of
Grand Master's Comments.·-·-···-··················-·······················································- 21
Centennial Lodge No. 729 Constituted............................................................................ 32
Ceremony of Ground Breaking_................. ----·-····~-····-·-·····-········--······- 256
. ·---···-········--··--········---·-····· ···--·············-··--····-··-· 3
Certllkation
Certified Mail
(See Amendment of Sections 257, 308)
Changes of Meeting Place
Grand Secretary.................................................................................... 115, 121
Report
Report o By-Law1 Committee............................·-··················-·······-·················-···- 318
Channel Lodge U.D.

bf

~~==~: ~~~~~d·=.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Ji~

Chaplain, Appoinbnent of
(See Repeal of Section 452)
Charters
Charters Authorized ··-···············- ················-········-··-·······················- ···-··-············ 233
Dates of Issue LUted.-········-··················-···-·----·-----~----···-·-·--· 486
Dispensations Continued ·················································--··-- ···---··-··-··-·- 233
Endorsements Authorized - - ·····-······-·············-···-······-···················--··-·-············-··· 322
Report of Committee on....·-·-·-······-··········-······---·····--······· ······- ························ 232
Christmas and Entertainment Fund
Audit ·································-············································································-··············· 412
Contributions for Covina -············-·······-··········-············-······-····-···-····················· 431
Contributions for Decoto................................................................................................ 425
Clandestine Masons, Healing of
(See Repeal of Section 796, 2nd Paragraph)
Clark, Frederick Calvin, Honored.................................................................................... 232
Oaude H. Morrison Lodge No. 747

gi.:,::ai:i!= ~:::::===::::::::::::::::::::~:..::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::: ~~

Clausen. Henry ChriatiaD, Grand Master
Photograph -·-··-·-·-----·······-······························-·············-·Prontilpi~
Biography ···-----·-·-------·····-········--····················-···-·~-··
Appointments for Communication...-~·-··································-·····-····-·····--···-··· ~
- ····-···········-······-····-·- ········-···-- 31
Message.......
39
.::=:::::::::::::::::::::::=~--~===fi~:oi:._
45

1

---

c1~;~~vn:u;y·~~ 15i--·--··-············--··············-··-····-·····--

Dispensation Issued __--------··--···-······-····-······ --·····--·······-··-····-·-··· 123
Charter Authorized ---··-···---····-·---··---·- -··---···-- ·····-·····-- 233

~~!:mlttee

OD.-----·-·--·-·-··--··-······---····-·-·····--···-···--- 335
CoA::!:
Reference by Segregation CAmmlttce.---·-···-···-----·· ·············---·-·- 99
·
.
Commission on Revision of Rau Digest
281
Report of .......,._-·-·····-·····-··········--········-- ····---··-··-"'-........--·--·"--,....... __ _
Committee AppoiDtmentl

~~~ f95S-Sr.~~~~-~-~::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~ 4~~

Committee Reports
(See Reports of Committees)
Communist Membership
(See Legillatloo Introduced)
Consolidation of Lodgea.......................-··································-·······--···· ······-··19, 117
Conltituent Lodgea Llsted. ...•.....•.......................••.•........·-······-·······-······--··············-· 486
486
Contrlbutlom
Endowment Fund ····-·················-··········-····························-·-·······-··J···············;;c·
Entertainment Fund-·-····-····-········-···-·--·.!.- -·······--·--·--.·---·-·-···- 431
Special Funds ............................................................................................................ 436
Contributions for Temple from Refreshment Pund·-··················-····-·-···········-···· 94

Co=~';;; ~~~~s:'.~~~~---······-········--··············-·········-·········-··············-·-···

322
Copyright Notice ·······-··········-··················-·························---···-···---·-ft--- 5
Correspondence
Report of Committee on.••·-···········-········-············-····-··········-···········-············-··· 266
Distribution of Report.·-··············-·-·-··-·-·-·- --------··------·--- 530
Covina Residents Ustecl.---········-·---·---·-··· ···--·-·--······---··-··--·- 429
391
Covina Special Fund

~~===::::::::::::::::::-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::~~==--=--==-~==== 436
Credentials, Report of Committee on.•••••.•..•••.•••..••••..•·-········································--··· 241
D
153
Davis, Elbert W.
Report of Grand Lec:turer--··············-·················-······················-·-··············--·45
·
Decislons of Grand Master
355
················'.··--····-·-jS-i"
Reported In Mesaaqe..·-·······················································
•
Report of JurilprUden<:e Committee..........................................................353,
. 417
Decoto Residents Lilted-·········-··········-···----··-·····-····················;·-·····.·--"1"·""!""7"
391
Decoto Special Fund

~Li.ted-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=== 436
Dedication of Grammar School
(See Repeat of Section 480)
&~ 486
Degree Fees Tlbulatecl.._._...·-········-····-··-··················-····---· ·-··--·
Degrees Conferred
Tabulated by Lodges..................... ....... -· .. ---·-·- ·-·-- ·······- - ----···· ·. -- ····· - ····•,....... 486
-- ··· -· ·-.. ···· ·-··· ... ... .....- 116
Totals Reported ·-·····-,.·······-·--- · ·· --- ·-······· .. -···-········ . ·-

534

INDEX

Page

DeMolay
Report of Committee on..............-............................................................................ 332
Reference by Committee oa Segregation................. _.............................. _............... 99

ne~~Jsr~:~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : : ::::::::~::~:::::::::::::: :: : : : : : : : : : 3~

Directors of Qubhouaea
Report of ................•.•.••..........................................................•..... ,.....................3'¥1, 330

Dl~::i:X:e!s~e:'._.................................................................................................... 117

Misc. Matters Llated...•.•..................................................... _..................................... 125
Report of Committee on Juriaprudence...................·..........•...-···-·············--··-······· 362
Dlstlilauhlhecl Guests :...•.•.••·-································ ······························· ........................ 100

Duea.lJabllicyfor
(See Amenamem Section 175)

.

Duea of Lodga Tabulated. ............................................................,.............................. 486

E
E'Jection of Commissioners

(See Amendment Section 120)
Election of Ollcera...._ ....-·-·-······················-····················································-······· 366
Election of Trial Commissioners
(See Amendment of Section 295)
El Rancho Lodge U.D.

&!=~~ ~=~~·:::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:

Endorsement of Charters
Recommended by Grand Sec:retary..•.•.•..•·---··-··-···-·····--··-·-···-···--··• -..- 115
Report of By-Laws Committee...............................-······················--····-·········-······ 322
Endorsement Board
Contributions through Lodgea.....•....-······································--·················-·· 156, 486
Honor Roll ···-····-·····-···································-························-·····-······:.··········-··· 159
Memorial Contrtbuttcna Liated. ......•... _.......... _..-··········-···-··-································ 158

t§i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~ !I

Endowment Fund
(See also Endowment Month Observance)
Bequests --·-········-·········-······-···-·-··-··-··· ···················-······-················-···· 157
Contributiona through Lodgea..............••.........••.................•..•..........•.••.............. 156, 486
Honor Roll ---···········-··················-······-··········-··················-····---····················· 159
Memorial Coatrtbutloaa ·····-··········-······-······-·············-·······-·--·······-···-········-·- 158
Securitite I.lated·······-······-··························································-··················-··-··· 407
Enforcement of Section 127
(See Legislation)
Entertainment Fund
(See Christmas and Eotertalnmeat Fund)
Excusing Assistant Grand Lecturers
(See Legislation)
Eulogies for
Charles Emerson Llstenwalter.....................................-················-··················-····· 244
John Ryle MacGregor, Srh-·-··-······-··-··-··············--·--···~-·-·---..:····-··-··- 245
Albert Vernon Y ounp................. _.···-··································-...····•··-····---···:-.• 246
Ex?,ulsion. Automatic
(See Amendment Section 332)
Extinct Lodges ···-······························-··-········································-······-·-··············· 505

INDEX

535

F

Page

Fees of Lodges Tababtted.·-·-·--..--·······-··..................·-·-··-..- ..-··-··-··-..---·-- 486
Fifty Year Buttons Ptaealed. ...........-... _..___.........-............................-.....-.......... 131
Finance Committee

~~~ }(~ted

~~

__ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Flint Tl'lllt Pund .A.wit
··--·-------··-···-..........._..............-...···--······· 398
Foreign Grand Lodges
List of R~ Jurladlctions..••.- ..•............•- •.•••.................................................. 518
Report of Coiiamlttee on Recognition of....·-····-··············································-······· 339
Forest Lodge No. 66 Coasolklation..-···------·········--···············-···················· 19, 117
Forfeiture of Contributions
(See Amendment Section 241)
Funds of Lodge
(See Investment of Funds)

~::~ ~~~1~!-;i;-;~t································-···-·-···-···-···--······--···-··---·· 412

(See Legislation)
Funeral Service as Revised by Committee on Ritual..--·----·-···-····-· - 224

G
General Appendix ··········-···························································-·················-··········· 437
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Report of Committee·---··-······-···-·--·---······-··-···-·.........._., __ .. ____ 338
Golden Bowl Lodge No. 755
Dispensation Issued ··-·············-·--···-·····························································--··· 122
Charter Authorized ·················-·-···········-··-··················-·······-·········-········-··-·····
Golden Empire Lodge No. 733 Cooatituted..............•.•.•.•.............•.•..•.••..••.•...•••...•__• 233
32
Grand Chaplain
Devotional Service ·········-··········--··········································-·······························
9
Grand Honors
(See Amendment of Monitor)
Grand Lecturer •
Report of···-········-············-·········-·······································································-·· 153
Reference bv Segregation Committee.............•.......•..•·-···-··-·-···---·····-·---- 99
Grand Lodge Aud!L....·--··-····-·-····-··································--························-·······- 374
Grand~N-.

'

G~d~~----···-··-··-·----0:-..,..,....____..._.,..__.. 100

Grand.....,
(See Clausen, Henry Christian)

~!:S::s ~ep;;;;r::::~-=~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Proclamations ·--·-···-····-··-··························-···················-·-···39• 40, 42, 43, 75
Report of Jurisprudence Commlttee...•..............•.....................353, 35.f, 355, 359, 360
Recommendations ···--···-··········-····················-··········-··········································· 31
Report of Polley Committee...................... ·-··············-······-········--····--··-····.ltS• 352
Grand Oration ·············-····--··-····-································································-······-··· 212
Grand Representatives
20, 37,
Grand Secretary
Report of ··········-·---·-··---·-··-····-····-············ ········································-···-······
References by Segttgation Committee.......................................................-............. 115
98
Comments of Finance Committee.,.-..--..............................................................-·- 190
Grand Treasurer
Report of .................................................................................................................... 101
References by Segregation Committee...•-··-············-························-·······-·-······· 99
Comments of Finance Committee......·-··········--····················-····--························· 190
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59 Caaaolidation...- ..........................--············-··-·······19, 117
Greetings Received ·················································-·······•······························-············· 138

--·---·····-··-······--··········-··-···-····--····--···8•

38

536

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Grievances
Report of ,Cc-mtttee....--·-··-··---···------·--·----·-·---·····----· -·-------·------···- 289
Trial Records Approved................................................••.........- .. ······-·····-····-····- 290
Reatoratlons Approved ...........................................................:................................ 292
Additional Trial Records ..... ·-·--············---·-·······························----·························- 293
Trials. Held Over...................·-···-·····························-··-························-··············-··- 316
Ground Breaking Ceremony
Ceremony Reported ·-········-··-····························································-··············-··· 256
Printing of Report Ordered.....................................•.............•......•. ·-······················· 353

H
Hackett, William Henry, Honored.....•.......................................................................... 232
Hamilton Lodge No. 751
Dispensation Issued ···············-····-······-·-································································· 120
··························-··············-····-····-· 233
Charter Authorized ···········-··············-··········
Hawaiian Administrative Officer
(See Legislation)
Hawaiian Inspectoral Districts
(See Legislation)
Healing Clandestine Masons
(See Repeal of Section 796, 2nd Paragraph)
Highland Lodge No. 748
Dispensation Issued ·······-······-··············································-································· 118
Charter Authorized ···-··········-···············-···-···········--····-································-·········· 233
Hillsborough Lodge No. 737, Coostituted............................................... _................... 32
History, Report of Committee OD.--··························-············································-·- 325
Homes Statistics

~~~=:-~~?:=~~;~~~~~~:~:~~~~~~:~:~~ i~
I

·····················--···-··-· ······-·····-······--·······----··············· 36
I~~tments by Grand Master-··-··············-··········-·····
··········································· 515

Listed ········--·-··-······-······-··
Installation of Officers.................................................................................................. 368
Interpretation of Application Question 13
(See Interpretation of Section 223-13)
Investment, Report of Committee on.................................................................•...•••.••• 236
Investment of flunda..._ .................................................................................342, 344, 362

Jurisdiction of Lodges

J

Ju2;~Je~~:.~~~~ ~t~nlruttee on...•.........................·-···-·········-······················· 353
K
Kit Carson Lodge No. 734, Constituted........................................................................

32

L
La Canada Lodge No. 739, Constituted. .•.....•...•.....·-·················································- 32
Lawndale Lodge
Dispensation Issued ·············-············-································-··································· 121
Charter Authorized .................................................................................................. 233

537

Page
Legislation Proposed
Amendment of Section 31
·······-··-·- 94
Resolution R~ ---·--···-·····-····-·········· -································
Report of :Palley ~ttee.................................................................................. 347
Report of Jurisprudence eo.:ru:atttee•••••.••••••••••••.••.•.•....•..•.•...••·-··-····-········-······· 356
Amendment of Section JA
Additions Proposed ,., ,. , , , ... ------·--·-------- ----·--·····.......286. 363
·-········-······- 352
_Report of Policy ~ttft.-·-··-·-·································-········-··
Report of Jurisprudence Committee..............•....•............•.........................•.......•.•• 363
Amendment of Secttpn 86
Resolution Received ···-······-················-························....-········-···················88, 90
Report of Policy Commtttee..................·-··············-·-·········-····-················.342, 344
Report of Jurispnsdence Committee......................·-··-·····-·······-····-·············.34-4• 362
Amendment of Section 114
Resolution Received ···············-················-················-····················-··-··-··········· 78
Report of Policy Committee.....·-···············-·······--- -·-····-····---·······--- 350·
Amendment of Section 120
83
Resolution Received ···············-··························-············-··························-·······
Amendment Withdrawn ........•............................................................................... 120
Amendment of Section 123
Resolution Received ·································-··································-····-················· 285
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.•·-·········-·········-····--- --···-··-········-·-·· 361
Amendment of Section 126
Resolution Received ................................................................, .••....;....................... 94
Report of Polley Committee.................................................................... _........... 94
Report of Jurispnidence O>mmittee...........-·-··········-·····--·····---·· -······-·······- 94
Amendment of Section 127
················ 78
Resolution Received ·····-········-······································-··········-··-·····
Report of Committee on Publlcatiom...................................................................-. 210
Amendment of Section 152.1
90
Resolution Received ···········--······································-································-88, 344
Report of Polley Commlttee..........................................................................342,
362
Report of Jurisprudence Committee..........·-··········-··········--······-·--············.34-4•
Amendment of Section 175
Resolution Received ···-······-················---·················-······-····························-····· 358
Report of Jurl1prudence Committee...................................................................... 358
Amendment of Section 205-4th
Resolution Received ·····-··········-·············-········-··········-··········-··························· 285
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.•.....................·-····-··········-···•·····-··-· ·-··-- 361
Amendment of Section 218
Resolution Received ·········--·············--·······················-··········-··-··-···-·-·····....83• 90
Report of Polley Cca:unittee......................·-··············-·--·-··-··-········----···348. 350
Amendment of Section 241
Resolution Received ···-······-······················-··· ··································-······-··-····· 95
Report of Polley Committee..·-································-····-······-·········-··--·········- 346
Amendment of Section 257
Grand M·aster's Recommendation......- .. ··············--·-------·-··--~······-·····-·- 31
Report of Jurispnidence Committee................................... _.....- .•·-··--······- 360
Amendment of Section 295
Resolution Received ·····-····-··········································-····································· 84
Report of Jurisprudence Committee..·-··-······-··················-··-······-··········--·-·-· 355
Amendment of Section 299
Alternate Commissioners Propoaed..._·--····-··········-··-·····-··--··-······- -·:.. 91
Report of Jurisprudence Committee...................................................-······-··-····· 360
Nomination of Commissioners Proposed.................................- .....................80, 92
Report of Jurisprudence Committee............................................,........,....•.........- .. 355
Amendment of Section 300
Resolution Received ...................................................,.............................................. 80
Report of Jurisprudence Committee·-·························-···············;·········'············; 356
Amendment of Section 308
Grand Master's Recommendatton.......... ~ ................•......-:...--····-·-··-·········-- 31
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.... ·-·······-······-············---- ···-···················· 361

538

INDEX

Amendment of Section 332
Page
Resolution Received ···········-··········-··········-······························-··········-········-··· 92
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.•......•.•.•...·-··············-··-······························· 359
Report of Policy Committft.---···············-····························-··········-··-············· 341
Amendment of Sectlooa 3+t and 345
Resolution Received --···········--········-································································· 93
Report of Policy Committee.•......·-························-············································· 342
Report of Juriaprudenc:e Committee.•.•....................·-············-··-························· 357
Amendment of Section 658 ·
Resolution Received -··--·-······-··································-······-··························-··· 79
Report of Poll~ Committee......•.·-····-······························-································· 350

A)f~:?off!fspruda::

Committee•.·-······-····-················-········-······················· 356
Automatic Continuance of Dispensation
Resolution Received ·············································-··························-··················· 78
Report of Policy Committee..........··························-······-··-································· 350
Building and Loan Investments
,
Resolution Received ·-·······································--····--···--··-··-····--··--··--············-··· 88
Report of Jurisprudence Conmlttee...................•.•.•............•.•................... _ •........ 362
Report of Policy Committee.................................................................................. 342
California Masonic Code
Name Pr~ed .................................................................................................... 284
Report of Jurisprudence Committee......................................................·-············· 352
Communist Membership
Resolution Received .............................................................................................. 89
345
D!f~: N~.~lli~r ~:i:~::t~~--H~~~ii""

.............................................................

Repollted as Unfinished Bwdneas........................................·-······-······················· 115

D~~~yo~=t;nce Committee...•............... _................................................. 358

Resolution Received -·-·······--······-··-···········--·············--·--·········---··-··············· 96
Report of Palley Committee...........•..........·-··········································-············· 351
Enforcement of Section 127
Special Report of Publications Committee..................................·-····················· 337
Report of Jurisprudence Committee..................................·-················-··············· 337
Report of Policy Commlttee..·-·············-·········································-··················· 337

Exfu:1:J1
~=tR==················;·····························---·········--···-······· 31
Report of Segregation Committee................·-············-······-··············-··············· 98

Report of Policy Committee.................................................................................. 345
Funeral Service
Revisions Proposed --··--·-·····--······································-···················-···83, 89

~=~f:o~f x~:lJ~~~~-~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Grand Lodge Name
Grand Master's Recommendation ............................................................................ 31
Report of Policy Committee....·-··········-······-··-··························-·········-······- 352
Hawaiian Inapectoral DJstricts and .Administrative Officer
Resolution Received ·-················-······-···················································79, 80, 90
1n::i:t~!:~~~j"····························--······--···················-·················-· 347
Resolution Received ···--·--········-----··--··--··················-·--·····--················-··-······· 95
Report of Policy Committee.....................................................................·-·····-··· 347
Repeal of Section 494 (b) ············-·-············---·--·····-·········-····-····--···-··--- 362
Memorial Temple Contributiom From Refreahment Fund
Resolution Received -····-···-················-····-····-··--·-···············-·········-············· 94
Report of Policy Committee••.•........•.•...•..••.••..·-················-························-······· 94
Report of JuriaJ)rudence Committee........·-···········'············-································· 94
Public Schools Committee
Grand Master's Recommendation.......................................................................... 31
Report of Jurisprudence Committee•........................................·-·-··-·······-·······-· 359

~:,~ ~: ~~~ecc::!:t~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

INDEX

R~~~:~!UC....

539

----·-·-"'·;.,.··•···--··-··-······-····-·················:ag;

Report ofitau81 CanunttHe..·--··-··-··-··-·····-··----·--············--····--···--·----·····--· 222
Repealofs..a..U
Resolution Received .............................................................................................. 285
Report of Jurisprudence CommJttee....•••••••••••·-·······--··········-········-················· 361

Rere:1~~~:~:J~~
·····-············································································-········· 285
Report of Jurisprudence Cammittee..•.•- ......................................----··················· 361

Repeal of Section 494(b)
Resolution Received ··············-····-·-·-··················-··········-·····-···-···············-··· 285
Report of Jurisprudence CommUh!e.......................- .........- ....;••·------··---·-·--·· 362
(See Interpretation of Sectkm 223-13)
Repeal of Section 536
Resolution Received ···-············-···············-·························································· 285
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.....---··--······-·--·---··········-··········· 362
Repeal of Section 749
Resolution Received ·················································································-··-······· 285
Report of Jurisprudence Committee...................·-·······-·-------·······;·······-······· 361

Re~=~I~~~~~~~~~~~--~~-~-~~~~---·······-·········--···-········--··--·····················
285
Report of Jurisprudence Committee...................................

-·--·•···-·····-··-·-·•·· 361
Sale of Temple Stock
Resolutlon Received ···--···········--·········-····-····-····························-··--··-··············· 88
Report of Finance Committee.............................................................................._ 190
Report of Policy Commi'ttee.................................................................................. 353
Subversive Membership

~=~~ti~f ~llce~v~it·t~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736 Constituted.................................................................... 32
Life Memberships, History of Program
(See Repeal of Section 536)
Life Membership Resolutiolls
Grand Secretary's Report of••·-··-··········-········-···········
-·...--··-·- 125
Approval of .............................................................................................................. 362
List of Constituent Lodges....·-······················-········-··········-····--·-······-········--·-·- 48~
Listenwalter, Chailes Einenon, Eulogy for..·-··················-·····--···-······-··-··-·-··· 24
Lodge Boob
(See Amendment Section 205-4th)
Lodge Financing
Report of Committee.................................................................................................. 268
Proposed Legislation ···························································································-·- 270
Amendment of Section 78 Defeated.......................................................................... 363
Lodges
Alphabetical List ···························-··-······-········-··-··········--·································- 523
Charters Authorized ··-··-······-····-··············-···-·····-······-········-··-··--··········-··- 233
Consolidation -·-····-·-·········-···-·············-······-··-·········-······-········-·--····-··· 19, 11~
New Lodges Constituted....•••.••·-····-····-··············--··-·········-·······-··-··-······--·-··· 3
New Lodges lnttituted.....................................................................--··········--··.33• 117
Numerical List -···-····-····-····················-···········-······-············-··················-·- 486
Los Angeles Masoalc Ha1L Report OD.---············-··········-·····-··········-··-··········-······· 196
Luckenbach Fund Audit
--·-·-·--··-·---~-··•r-···~-- 394
Luther Burbank Lodge No. 752

~!~~~~~~=~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l~!
M

MacGregor, John Ryle, Sr., Eulogy for....•...........•...·-··············································· 245
Masonic Clubhouses, Report of Trustees

~k%i'gd~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~b

540

INDEX

Page
Masonic History,
Masonic Homes Report of Committee OD.----·--·--··--···-···-·· -·--······-·--· 325
Audit Report ··-·········----···- ····················· ····················· ·············--··-·· -··········· 386
Recommendatioa of Grand Muter....................·--······-······························-··········· 31
Report of Endowment Board.-·-·······--·--············-··········-······--······················ 155
Report of Superintendent-Covtna............•....- ..······················-······························· 149
Report of Supertntendent-Decoto.....-··--·············-- ······-···········-·· ···············-··-·· · 145
Report of Truateea...-.•·····-······--······ ·-···-·············- ·········-··-········ ··-·················· 138
Statistics on Residents and C.OSts.......••..•......•••.·-····-··············································· 435
Trustees Appointed ········-·········- -·········--····· -··········-····· ·----·-··-·-13 8, 367
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
.
Contributions thru Lodges---···- ··-··-·····-·····- ··-·-····--·;····· ··-··-·-····-····· 156. 486
Honor Roll ···--··················-························-····················-··········-······················· 159
Members and OfftClerll. 1954-55.....·-··-···-···--····- ··-······-··---···· ···················· ··· 157

~:~~~~c;iit;-:::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Masonic Name
(See Repeal of Section 749)
Members' Contributions by Lodges...- ..········--······-·······--·-··-··········-······--········- 486

MR~~~~
by Grand Seaetary........·-··········-'····· ····-····-····-·--· ·""··--····-······ ····· 116
Tabulated by Lodga.--····························

··········-··-··················-·-·-···--·····-··- 486
Memorial Service -----······-- ···---···-··- ······--····-· ·····-..-····· -·--·· 243
Memorial Temple
(See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
Merced Lodge No. 749

gs.;~~l~ili~~~: :=~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::::::: ~~~
~=~:o''/ ~ra~~:::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1f~

Mi~~~~
1:1~·-···--··············-···-··········-···············-·-······-····-·-···-·····-·- 241
Tabulation of Paymenta...•·-················-···

·······-······--··-········································· 446
Moottor, Amendment of
(See Rltul Coaimittee}
Mommgatde Park Lodge No. 742
Charter Authoiized -···-···-·····················-················-··················-············-·-·--· 233
Mother Colony Lodge No. 7SO
Dispensation Issued ·····-··················-······································································· 119
Charter Authorized ···-·-·-······-··········-··-········-··································-··-·····-······ 233

N
Necrology, Report of Committee on..•.....·-····-··················-······················-·······-······ 243
New Lodges
Charters Issued ···········································································--·-························· 233
Dispensations Continued ·························-··-··-······················································· 233
Grand Master's Report OD-.·-··········-··-······-·····················-···-···-··-·-················ 33
Dispensations Issued ····-····-···········································-··········-···-···-······-····--· 117
Nomination of Trial Commissioner
·
(See Amendment of SecUoli 299)
Number of Residents at Hocna--··············-····-··············-··········-···-·····-········-·-······ 435

0

Oakwood Lodge No. 743
Charter Authorized ···········-······················-·········-················································
233
Oasis of Mara Lodge No. 735, Constituted ................·--··············-·············-··············-···
··· 32
Officers, Appointed ·-······················-····-····························································-······· 366
1

8~~:~· J ~::d_T.OdQe-···-······················-··············-·-······-···········-·····-·······-,-·-··· ~

Appointment of ··--····-···-······· ····-·····--····-··- ··-················- ··········-·····-··· ····-:.... 366

INDEX

541

Page
Attending from Other Jurbdlctioas. ...---······-····· ····-··-······· -·----·----- 100
Election of ······-·······-··--················-··········-····-····-··········-········-············-·-·· 366
Installed for 1955-56 Yem:____
. --··---··· ·····----· ··-·---- 368
Present at Commuaiai.tion.. ____ ..................·--····-···-···-······-········--····················· 7
Since Organization ···-··--'-··-··········--·-···············-····-··--··········-··-·-····~· 509
Old Masonic Hall at Los
Anteles
·
Report of Committee CID--··-·-·····-·-·--····-··-··-·-··---··-·-···-·--·--- 196
Opening of 106th Annual Communication........•.....•..-··········-····-········-··········-···-··
7
Opportunity Lodge No. 740
Charter Authorized -·······-···-···· -··-·············· -······-··-····-· ····-··-·····-·'·· -· 233
Oration of Milton D. Sapho. Grand Orator...•..·-··········-··········································· 212

p
Past Grand MMtera
List of Since Orpmattca ----··-···-- -···--··-···· ··--·········· ··---- 509
Present at Communlcatlon..••..•.... _ •.•.....-······························································8
Visitors at Communlcatlon.......-······-······-··-·· ····-·········--···- -··-······-········· ·····-·· 100
Past Matten-Necr ology Report. .............·-·················· ··········-····-···· -········-·-···- 247
Pay of Members
.
Report of Ccmmlttee...--·-········--·············-·-···-·---------- 241
Tabulation of Payme:ota.••...- •.·····-············· ·-······-······-·· ····-···-··-······ ······--· 446
Peninsula Lodge
Dispensation Issued -----····-···- -··--··-·---·· ········-··-···· ··-···--··--'-- ·· 118
Charter Authorized --·····-~·-····························································-········-··-····- 233
Per Capita Pa~
Receipts froln Lodaa Llat2d..•...... -····-··················-····-···-·-······-········-··--··--·-- 486
Waived for New Lodges..·-·······-··························································-······--115, 190
Per Capita Cost of Home. Operationa.............•.....•.... _..•••.••...•...•- •.····-··-······-········· 435
Permanent Code Commission
(See Amendment Sectloa 78)
Polaris Lodg_e No. 730 ConstitutecL..•-··················· ···-·········-···-·· ··········-···--·-· -· 32
Policy and General PUl'pOleS Cammtttee, Report of........·-······-········ -·--·-··-··· 339
Perine Endowment Fund Audit-...........-··--···········-···-··············---···········-·····- 396
~:~~ ~i:I:w~u~bs~~=ed.............................- .............................._._........ 265
Report of Special Committee OD--···············-················---············~--:·····-·····-···-· 168
Grand Master's Recommendation................... ---···-··--···-····-··--····-···-·····-····-·········29. 31
Publications

~=~ ~: &>:':l'~!~t~~:::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::: 1~~

Pt-oposed Legislation. Section 126.1....•....-··············-· -··-······-····· ---···-·'-·· 208
Report on Amendment of Section 127........................................·-············-············-· 210
Enforcement of Section 127·-·-·············································-············-······-··········· 337

R
Railroad Equipment Trusts
(See Amendments of Sections 86.1, 152.1 )
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Report of Special Ccmmtttee...............--····-·················-···-······-·····-···············-··· 339
List of Recognized Jurildtctions..... _... _...............-..····-······-··············-··-··-·····-·· 518
Regalia at Puaerala
·
(See Ritual Ceamlt!n)
Registration .nd Mileage Payments...~·-·········-·······················-···-·-··········-·····-··-··· 446

ReCdo=:~s-·-·---·-·····--·-·--··-········-······-··-·······················----···-···-· 153
Grand Master ·······················-·····-···································--········---·······-·······..•••• 15
Grand Secretary --············-·-·· ·············-·-··- ·····-···-··-··-··- ·-·····-············ ········ 115
Grand Treasurer······ ·····-·····-···-· ··-·······-·-···· ·-·-·--··-···-··-··········-··-- 101

542

Rer::;::va of

INDEX

INDEX

Lodgea

Page

eteDdaace Reportied --······-····-····-··········-··-······-··-··-··-~---·-····-··..- · - 8
Ra.tier of Attenc:lanc
e.........................................................................................-······· +46

Reports of Committees
Board of ~-······-···········-·······-··················-··-··--·~-·--·~·•···-·- 163
By-Laws
·-·-·-·-·- ·-·-······ ······----·-··- -···--···- ·.. 318

~i=~ T";;J,i;:~~:~~=:::::::::::~~::::::=::::::::::::=:::::::=:::::::::::::::::::-~:::::::::= ~~~

Com.mission OD Reviaion of Rou Digest.-··· ··············- -·-·····-····· ·······-............... 281
Constitution Month Obaervance-.--·-···················-··-·······---·-·-··-··-·-..· 322
Correspondence ---··-..··-·--·-······ ····-····..··········-······--···-··..·····-··············......... 266
Credentials ----····-··· ·-··-··-"··· ·····-··-··- ······-······ ·-··-·--···· ··-·········· ····-· 241
De Molay -·-··-·- ··---·-- --.........................- ............................................. 332
Finance ····-···--...- ................................ - .......... _.:...................................................
190
George Wublngto n Muonic National Memorial.......•.....•..............•....................•.. 338
Grievances -·-···-··-·· ······--····· ·-··-----··· ·······-·..-.................________________ 289
Investment
------..·-·-····- ········-···- -··----·· ..·-..............._ 236
Jurisprudence -----·--·· ····---····..-·--····--·..·--................._ .................
.........._ 353
Lodge Financing -----···- ·-·--·-·- ··--··--- ·------- ·--·---·· ·--··-... 268
Masonic Clubhouses ---···--·-· ·--·---·-·· --·-·------ --..·-·-··-·-······--·--31:1, 330
Masonic History ....· - - - ----·--·-- -····-······- --··.................
.............................. 325
Masonic Homes Endowmeut Boerd.............- ..............
_,......................................._ 155
Masonic Homes Truate a....--- -..--·--·-· ·----·-· ----··-- -··-- 138
Memorial Te~ple_ ··-····-······ ····..-··-···-·····-···-··--····----··--··--···········~---·--···--·-··-----·- 108
Old Muoaic Hall at Loa Angela.......................-···----· ··---·······-·-··- - 196

5''!~:~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~~:::::: iii

Publications ----··· -·..-········-··........ _...................... _....................................... 197
Public: School1 W ee1t Observance............................................................................ 168
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges...................................................................... 339
Ritual..
-·--·--···· -·····-..····························--··--········-··-·-···-··········-······· 222
Segregation ···-··--·-· •··-······..··········-·············-·--·············---··························· 98
Sojourners -·-·--···-··· ··········-··· ·····-··-····· ·············· ···-······-··· ·········-···· ····-··· 334
Study of Sedklo 210...••-············- ··············· ···-··-··-··-· ·---·-········ ···-······-·-·
···-··
Taxation ------·-- -·-·-·-·· ·····---·· --·..·····-····..·········--··- ··-····-······· ·····-·· 287
234
Reserve for Additions and Replacements
Audit ···············-·-··········-···:................................................-············----····-········-··· 391
Contributiona LUted ·········································································-···-····-············ 436
Reserve Fund Audits
Additions and ReoJacementa....••...........-·-··-······--········-······-··-·····-..·····-···--··..-- 391
Unappropriated Reserve _...........................................-········-···· ···-····-·
..--..-······· 391
Residents at Homes
Covina ····---··..--..·-···-··········-··············..··················-··························-······-··· 429
Decoto ·------ ······-··.. ··-··-··-····· · ..····-·········· -·····--······· ·········-·-··· ·······-·· 417
Statistics ··-···-·-·-· ··..·············-····..···-························--·······-·····························..·· 435
Residents' Deposits Audit-..................................... -··································-······-·····-- 401
Resolutions Presented
(See Legislation)
Restoration by Grand Lodge
(See Amendment of Sections 344 and 345)
Retirement Plan
Report of Finance Committee.........- ..-·-···-····· ···-······-- --·······-·· -·-··-··-·- · 192
Special Legislation for••.•...•-·-···"·..-·-···-··-·· ···-·--····· -··-···---·· ···-·-,····· ···· 232
Returns of 1955 Aw!lted .----····-..-··---······......-·····-·· ·----.· - - · - 372
Ritual Committee
Report of Grand Lecturer•••••••••••••••••.••.•... _..........- ................................................... 153
Report on Funeral Servlce ·Revillonl.......................................
230, 231
Report OD Monitor Amendment ................- ....................-···-·-··-·'- ·-··..···-··-··-- 222

-··-······-···222.

543

Ross Digest RevlsioD
Page
Report of ConmdMlon - - - - - -·····-···-·········-·..·---··----······-···----·····...- 281
Legislation Piopoeecl ••••••.
- ..................- .........................- ..............................,284, 285
Legislation MOpted --····-····-·-·-·····--········-···-····-·--······--·············--...352, 361
Roll Call ···--··-··- ----·-··-· ·--······-· ·····-··--- ·-···-····- ··-···-·--- ····--·--- 7

s
San Juan Lodge No. 732 Con.etituted..........._..........--··-···- -······-- ·---·--- 32
San Leandro Lodge
·
Dispensation Issued ···-··--·-·· ·-·-.................................................- .............. _, ........ 117
s~Pa:ii~ ~~ed -·--··--- ···-···-· ·····-·-· -------- ---·-·-·· -·---- 233
Dispensation Issued -···----- ---·--·-· ···-··--·- --..--··-··--- -····--·-· ·--- 122
Charter uth[fzed -···········---··-······································-········-··-··--······-··········- 233
Sapiro, Mi ton ., Oration of.................- ...............____ ..····-·-·--· -··-·-··- - 212
Sale of Temple Stock
Transfer of Funds Recammended..·-····--······ ····-·········· -······--·--·· ······---·--1 10, 88
Report of Policy Committee..................................................................................... 353
Scholarship Fund Audit. .................................. .................................. .............. --395.. 399
Section 210, Report of Special Committee to Study......-·····-·-·- ·-··-287
Securities Held

f

~nd ~e --·-···-·- ····-..······--······ ····-··-··-··· ···--········- ··········---· ··-······--· 380
sonic: omes Endowment Fund........................................_ ..........................- .• 403

Masonic: Homes General Fund...- ...····························-········..··-············-..·········-... 405
Segregation, Report of Committee OD.--····-·..··········-··········--··..··-······-··-··-··-·······98
Service of Summons
(See Amendment of Section 300)
Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning --···-·······- ·············· ······-·..···········-- -·-·····-···· -·-··-··--·- ····· 7
Monday Afternoon -·-·········· -············- ··········-·-· ·····-·---98
fuesday Morning ·-······--····..······-··············--···..·-············ ··-··········- ····--······- ·· 190
ue~y Afternoon ·-----······- ··········-··· ··········-·· ------····-·..· · · · · - - - · - 212
We
Morning ............·-··················--·..··-·············--···-··..··--··-·---...
· 232
~ursday Ahrning -·-··--········-········-··········--····---··-·--·-·--·-:..........._ ..•.-· - ..... 265
ursday
ernoon ·----..·····-·-···-· -..········-·····················-..··· ..·················-·--··· 318
~ri~ay ~hming ··--··-·· -..··----······· ··-·-··..······-··-·--· -····-··-·····
-···-·-··-- -- 364
ri ay
ernoon -··-··--···· ··..·························..··--·······--· ···-·-········· ···--·--·····- ·- 368
Seventy-five Year
Button
(See Amendment of Section 658)
Siems, Edward H .. P.G.M.
Report of Grand Treasurer..·-········-·.. ···-········--·-·-..---··-··-- ·--···--•- -..- 101
Smoking in Lodge Room
.
(See Amendment of Sect.ion 123)
Sojourners, Report of Committee on...........- ...- .•--··········--···---···---··-·-····-·····--· 334

esdaM

sr;::;:
=~~N·~~ ·--·· · · · --·· · · ·--·· · · · . · · · -· -. . . . . . . -.. · ·-· · · -· -· · --· 120
Charter

Authorized -·--·-··· ···-··-·· ····-····· ·------- ··-·-···- --·-·- 233
Special Appendix .................
......................................................................................... 369
Special Committees Assigned

8id'M1~~1~A:~;i~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

~~1~ e;~eei~·-······-···-······-··----···-··············--······---·-···------···-···

32

Special Punda Aud!ted...........--··-··············-··············•·······-·-··-········--············390• 391
Sponsoring De Molay a.ptera
(See Legislation)
Students Loan and Scholarship Fund
Audit---- -·-········· ·····--····· ·······-····· ··--········ ···-·-··-··-- ·-·..:.·-···- ---..:..•• 399
Subversi~p
(See LeglarlldDa ldiactuced )

INDEX

544

Page

T

Taxatio n
········-·· ···-- 234
Report of Committee on...·-··-····- ·-········· -·········· ·······-··· ---·······
-······-··· -·-·-··· 94
Temple Contributions from Refreshment Fund..........·-······-·· ····-······
5
·········· ·········· ···--··-·· ····-····· ···--·Page --·-······ ···-·-···· ··-··-···· ······-···
Title
·
Twenty-Ave Mile Radius
(See Amendment Section 218)
Twenty Mile Radius
(See Amendment Section 218)
Trial Procedure
Nomination of Commis sioners- See Amendment Section 299
Election at Stated Meeting --See Amendment Section 295
Service of Summo ns-See Amendment Section 300
Service by Certified Mail-S ee Amendment Section 257, 308
Alternate Commis sioners- See Amendment Section 299
Trial Records
······~·-··- 289
Grievance Committee Report._••·-·······················-··············-··········-··n~o~···-··········-······-•·····-······-····"-·············-·········-···- 127

T!e:~~1 ~s~~

--····- 367
Appointed ----·-··· ·······-·· -········· ··········· ······-··· ··········· -········· ·-········
444
······-··
·········
·········
-········
····-·-····-·-····-·--·
Listed ······--- -·--··-138
····-·····-·
·····-······
·············
·············
·············
·-··········
······-······--.:.··Annual Report
············- 32
·············
-············
..
•............
.............
ted.
C.00..titu
131.
ro.
~~
~;!

+;:

4

Charter Authorized ···-······- ······-···· ············ ······-···- ·--·-···-- ······...·····-····

········- 233

u
···-···-·-- ··-··· 391
llnappro prlated Reserve Fund...••.....................·-········· ··········- ·-······-··
Unethical Promotion
(See Amendment Section 126)
Unfinished Business from 1954
·····························-··········· 115
Reported by Grand Secretary.•••.•••...•·-··-······-·············-·····-···
···-···-·· ·---···-·· ---· 117
···········
·-·······•••••..•..•..
••••.•••••.••
66
No.
Lodge
Forest
······························ 224
·············
·············
·············
-··-········
...
Revision
Funeral Ceremony
···········-······· 45
·-··-··-···
..
Harwell
Master
Grand
of
11
Decision
under
ation
Investig
·-······· 45
Investigation under Decision 20 of Grand Master Harwell..........................
· 196
··-··········
·············
·············
·············
·············
Los Angeles Masonic :Hall.·-······-········
····-··-··-··-······-······-··-~- 287
Review of Section 210•.••.. ·-··-··································-····
·····-······· 358
Suspension of Master- --·-··-··· ···········-··························-···-······----·····
Unfinished Business for 1956
········:.•..34f, 363
Bullding and Loan lnvestments............•........-······-··················-··········
············ •··-· 346
······-·····
-······-····
·····-······
··········-·
········-···-•·········
·······-····
241
Section
-····-··-- ---- 350
Section 658 ····-···-· ··········· ··-······- ··········· ··········- ····-····- ·-··-·-···
····-·--· 350
Section 114 ··----··-···-····-··-··········-·-···-··-··-·······~······-··---······
·...,. 352
··········-·
·······-····
····-···-···
······-·····
···········-···········
·········-··
·--··-·····
Section 78.3

v
Veteran Buttons Presented..·-······- ·········· -········ ·········· ····-··--

··-··---· ·---- 131

w
..••..•. -·········· ··-········ ······--·· ··-····--· ·-··-·-·-· ·-··-··-·· --··..•• 397
Wadleig h Fund AUdlt.
West Covina Lodge UD.
··-·-..- -- 124
Dispensation Issued --··-·-· ········· -··-···· ··---·-- ·-·--··· ·--··-·- ··-··-··· 234
ed ············ ···-··-···· ··········-· ·-··-··-··· ·········-·· ·,.··-··-....
Dispensation Continu
Wilson, Lloyd E., P.G.M.
·---···-· 115
Report of Grand Seer~···-·-·-······-··-··-······--····-··-······--··-·-·· -····-· 2i6
-······-··
·-···-··-·
-·······-~
·-······-·
.
.......•.....
Youngs, Albert Vernon. Eulogy for

