ONE HUNDRED FORTY-NINTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

1998

One copy of this book of Proceedings is sent
to each Lodge in the Jurisdiction
addressed to the Secretary

IT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE LODGE
TO BE KEPT ON FILE FOR
REFERENCE

California Masonic Memorial Temple-San Francisco

ANTHONY P. WORDLOW

Grand Master 1997-1998
Grand Master, Anthony P. "Tony" Wordlow, was born in Sheridan,
Wyoming, on July 16, 1936. When he was very young, the family moved to
California, finally settling in Rio Linda. He attended public schools, graduated
from Grant Union High School and continued his education at Grant Technical
College. He excelled in his favorite sport, swimming.
In 1959, Most Worshipful Brother Wordlow became a Master Mason in
Tehama Lodge No. 3 in Sacramento and quickly began his labors in the vineyards
of Freemasonry. He has served Tehama Lodge No. 3 on numerous committees
and in each line office beginning with Junior Steward. He was Master in 1970,
serving with distinction and honor. He was the recipient of the Hiram Award in
1994. Representing Tehama on the Sacramento Masonic Temple Board, he was
president 12 years. He sat on the Sacramento Masonic Cemetery Association
Board.
His Grand Lodge committee assignments have included Memorial
Service, Leadership Workshop, 1984 Junior Grand Warden Selection Committee,
Temple Properties, Wardens Retreats, Nob Hill Management Board, California
Masonic Memorial Temple Board, and Masonic Homes Board. He was Grand
Marshal in 1985-86 for Most Worshipful Grand Master John Driskell
At the October 1994 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge he was
elected Junior Grand Warden, served in each successive office until his election
October 14, 1997 as Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California Free and
Accepted Masons.
At the 1998 Conference of Grand Masters of North America, Grand
Master Wordlow was elected to a three year term on the Board of Directors of the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial in Alexandria, Virginia.

ANTHONY P. "TONY" WORDLOW
Grand Master
October 15, 1997 -October 14, 1998
11

An active member of the Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodies since 1961,
He was Venerable Master in 1977 and coronetted with the Thirty-Third Degree in
1987. His achievements in that body are legend. Just to mention a few, he had
been Temple Board President, on the Clinic Board of Governors, the Club
Coordinator, Membership Chairman and a member of the ritual cast for several
degrees. He is proud that several of the programs he introduced to the Sacramento
Scottish Bodies have now become "tradition."
In 1962, he inched his way across the hot sands of Ben Ali Shrine
Temple -serving that body as presiding officer in several clubs and units. 1990
was a grrreat year for Ben Ali when he was Potentate, better known as Tony the
Tiger. He was a member of the East-West Game Executive Committee.
Most Worshipful Brother Tony delights in participating with the
Sacramento Scottish Rite and Ben Ali Shrine Past Masters Third Degree Teams.

iii

As you might expect, he is a member of many other Masonic
organizations, including Sacramento York Rite Bodies; Red Cross of
Constantine; Past Toparch, Sciots Tract Pyramid No. 11, Ancient Egyptian Order
of Sciots; Marysville-Friendship Chapter No. 55, Order of the Eastern Star;
Sacramento Court, Order of the Amaranth; National Sojourners; Royal Order of
Jesters, Court 119; Royal Order of Scotland; The Robert The Bruce Association;
Honorary Member of the Chinese Acacia Club.
Married to Marilyn since 1956; they are the parents of one son, Chris,
who was raised to the Sublime Degree of Master Mason in Western Star Lodge
No. 2, F. & A.M., April 11, 1998, this year. Tony and Marilyn own and operate a
print shop in Sacramento, Deason & Stirn Printing. Tony has served as a printing
industry counselor to the Sacramento Unified School District and Folsom Prison.
He is a member of Sacramento Elks Lodge No. 6. They belong to Westminster
Presbyterian Church in Sacramento; Tony has been a deacon and an elder.
He has enjoyed working with youth groups - Boy Scouts, Little
League, PTA and, of course, Masonic Youth Groups. He is a Member of Honor
of Bethel No. 292, International Order of Job's Daughters, and holds the
DeMolay Honorary Legion of Honor.
His hobbies and interests include golf, traveling, action and science
fiction films, Star Trek and good food!
He has a natural ability to lead, strength of character, is creative,
innovative, thoughtful, considerate, caring, sensitive and blessed with good
humor and an intense joy for life. He is personable and reaches out to people.
Most Worshipful Tony has been aptly called a "Mason's Mason."
He considers his election to serve the Grand Lodge of California, Free
and Accepted Masons, as Grand Master a privilege, honor and pleasure. He
accepted and fulfilled the responsibilities, challenges, excitement and joys of the
office of Grand Master with flair, focus, and determination with the strong
support and assistance from the Past Grand Masters, the 1997-1998 Grand
Lodges Officers, committeemen, the Grand Lodge office staff and, of course, the
grrreat class of 1998 Masters of the constituent lodges of this jurisdiction.
His background of valuable
experience combines with his devotion,
dedication, commitment and love of
Freemasonry to prove his theme for his term
of office: Freemasons United: An Indelible
Impression.

Freemasons United:
An Indelible Impression
IV

v

<
.....

Brother Chris Wordlow, Western Star Lodge No.2, sounds
the gavel to begin the Public Opening of the 149th Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge of California on
Sunday, October 11, 1998 .

........_ ___

--

~--

•

Grand Master Tony Wordlow presents Kathleen Kelly,
Royal Grand Matron of the Amaranth, to respond in behalf
of the visitors from the concordant and appendant
Masonic organizations.

________ .a.___ ___

..

......

R~
~ "
0

"'

~r ~

g, [

~~

(") 1" m
e:..~ ~

~ ~- ffe

3 g .,,

;;;· f;' ~

~

§.

g,
~

~ er ~

s ("') s

3 !!. 3

en " en

<

==

~ a-~
~ §.. §:
(IQ

0

(IQ

~~
~

0

~ ~·

:. 5=

" ..... "

.o 3
...... "

~ ~. ~

....
.00 >

~~~

~ e. ~
~ g, ~
...... S' ~
9 (b
ti)

~ ~
:0
'O
?" ~ i!J'
~

g~~.,

r; · ~

(") 9

::r a'

~-<
~

§
o~

Mason of the Year, Mike Reynolds of Las PalmasPonderosa Lodge No. 366 of Fresno, is presented with a
plaque by Grand Master Tony Wordlow, assisted by Deputy
Grand Master Melville Nahin, at the Public Opening.

~ O'

g.

~
!!!

~

§

(")

~·

g

s
0

f.

.. ________

...__ _ _ _ _ _ __ __.&.

PROCEEDINGS
I, JOHN L. COOPER ill, Grand Secretary of the M:.W:. Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do hereby certify that the
following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of that
body at its One Hundred Forty-Ninth Annual Communication, commencing at
the City of San Francisco, Monday the Twelfth of October, A.L. 5998 and
terminating on Wednesday the Fourteenth of October, A.L. 5998.

of
THE M:.W:. GRAND LODGE

of
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
•

I

AT ITS
149TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

HELD AT THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed the seal
of the M:.W:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California, at the office of the Grand Secretary, this First day of January,
in the year of Light, five thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine.

~.n::_~~
' - / Grand Secretary

Vlll

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, A.D. 1998, A.L. 5998
AND TERMINATING ON
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, A.D. 1998, A.L. 5998
Copyright© 1999 by Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California. Printed in the United States of America.
All rights in this book are reserved. No part thereof may be reproduced in any manner whatsoever
without written permission from the Grand Lodge of California except that quotations may be
embodied in reviews by such other Grand Jurisdictions that have been recognized by this Grand Lodge.
For information, address Grand Secretary, 1111 California Street, San Francisco, California 941082284.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
OCTOBER, 1998

Page No.
Masonic Homes Centennial Celebration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Public Opening of Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l 0
Devotional Service .............................................. 22
Formal Opening and Minutes of Proceedings ......................... 23
Appendix A
Grand Master's Message .................................. 53
Grand Master's Calendar .................................. 68
Proclamations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Appendix B
Deputy Grand Master's Remarks ........................... 97
AppendixC
Senior Grand Warden's Remarks ........................... 109
AppendixD
Grand Treasurer's Report ................. . .............. 113
Audit R,.eports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Appendix E
Grand Secretary's Report ................ .. .............. 203
Exhibits and Reports .................................... 205
Appendix F
Grand Lecturer's Report ................................. 231
Appendix G
Grand Chaplain's Message ............................... 235
Appendix H
Grand Oration ..... ... ........ . ........... ........ ..... 24 7
Appendix I
Grand Master's Decisions ................ . ............... 257
Grand Master's Recommendation .......... ..... ........... 261
1997 Unfinished Business ................................ 266
1998 Resolutions ... .................... .. .............. 278

Appendix J
Reports of Boards
Masonic Homes of California ......... ......... .... 317
Masonic Homes Endowment ......... ......... ..... 358
California Masonic Foundation ......... ......... ... 361
California Masonic Memorial Temple ......... ...... 364
Nob Hill Masonic Management ......... ......... .. 366
Appendix K
Reports of Committees
Charters ......... ......... ......... ......... ... 373
Credentials ......... ......... ......... ..... · · .. · 374
Finance ......... ......... ......... .... · · · · · · · · 375
Jurisprudence ......... ......... ......... ... · · .. · 375
Masonic History ......... ......... ......... ..... 3 77
Masonic Service Bureaus ......... ......... ....... 378
Memorial Service ......... ......... ......... .... 386
Temple Properties and Taxation ......... ......... .. 387
Tournament of Roses Parade Float ......... ......... 389
Trial Review ......... ......... ......... · ·. · · · · · 393
U.S. Constitution Observance ......... ......... .... 399
Wardens' Leadership Retreats ......... ......... .... 402
Youth Orders ......... ......... ......... ... · · .. · 404
General Appendix
Committees and Boards of Grand Lodge ......... ......... .. 409
Registered Attendants ......... ......... ......... .. . . · .. · 423
Statistical Table of Constituent Lodges ......... ........ · · .. · 438
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ......... ......... .. 457
Elected Officers of Grand Lodge Since Organization ......... .. 513
Past Masters, Masters and Wardens - Deceased ......... ...... 523
List of Inspectors ......... ......... ......... .... . . · · · · · · 528
Foreign Grand Lodges Recognized by California ......... ..... 532
Alphabetical List of Lodges ......... ......... ......... .... 534
Masonic Homes Endowment Honor Roll ......... ......... .. 545
Index ......... ......... ......... .. ·. ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 555

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA

3

MASONIC HOMES CENTENN IAL CELEBRA TION
Saturday, October 10, 1998

On Saturday morning, October 10, 1998, Grand Master Anthony P.
Wordlow opened the Grand Lodge in due form in the Siminoff Temple Lodge
Room, at the Masonic Home in Union City, California, for the purpose of
rededicating the Masonic Home on the occasion of the 1OOth Anniversary of the
Masonic Homes of California.
Hundreds of Masons, their wives, families and friends were present as the
Grand Master, accompanied by the Grand Lodge Officers, led a procession to the
front steps of the SiminoffT emple. After welcoming remarks by Brother Kelly
Wiest, Administrator of the Union City Masonic Home, Stanley M. Cazneaux,
PGM, President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees delivered an address on
the Centennial year's theme of "Building a Future Upon a Century of Caring".
Brother David Francis Philips delighted the guests with several musical numbers,
including a moving presentation of the "Lord's Prayer".
The Grand Master, joined by the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and
Junior Grand Wardens, the Grand Lecturer, and the Grand Chaplain, rededicated
the Masonic Homes of California in due and ancient form. The ceremonies
concluded with appropriate remarks by the Grand Orator and the Grand Master.
To commemorate the Centennial for future ages, a time capsule was
deposited, containing memorabilia appropriate to the occasion.
Following the Grand Chaplain's Benediction, the Grand Master and the
Grand Officers joined those in attendance for a delicious box lunch. Special tours
of the Masonic Home's modem facilities were conducted for the Masons and their
families visiting the Masonic Home.
The day's festivities concluded with a gala Banquet at the Stanford Court
Hotel in San Francisco, which included a guest list of former Trustees and
Administrators of the Masonic Home, as well as the current Masonic Homes
Endowment Board committee members and the Grand Lodge Officers. The
following is an oration given to those present by Very Worshipful Ralph H. Head,
Past Grand Treasurer, and former Trustee of the Masonic Homes Board of
California:

I

~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

4

But the Gods of the Speculative Masons, whose thinking was more
spiritual ly inclined,
of
Said "Mason ry is more than buildings. Its goal is to serve all
."
mankind

The Gods of the Speculative Masons
by Ralph Head
Former Trustee and President ofthe Masonic Homes

For my narrative I am indebted to Rudyard Kipling for his poem "The
will
Gods of the Copybook Headings" whose style I borrowed. I am sure Kipling
year
a
not mind my doing so, since he was a Brother Mason who died in 1936,
after I became a Mason.
on
As I pass through my observat ions of the deities of every persuasi
I make my proper devotion s to the Gods of the Operativ e Masons
By observin g through reverent fingers I watch Gods flourish and fall
And the Gods of the Specula tive Masons, seem to outlast them all.
s in
But the Gods of the Operativ e Masons remind us of their building
time
n's
How they erected King Solomo n's Temple and even King Solomo
Mines.
the
They claim to have worked on the Pyramid s and added a nose to
Sphinx
nt,
They designed the Eiffel Tower and built the Washing ton Monume
they think.
But the Gods of the Specula tive Masons remaine d above all these
claims
They continued to write of morality and said goodnes s should be life's
aims.
In 1717 the Specula tive Masons gathered in a tavern in London Town
And formed the first Grand Lodge to which good men would be bound
And the philosop hy of that Order spread around the world we know
And in 1733 came to Boston where its numbers continue d to grow.
The gold rush that John Marshal l started with the discover y at Sutter's
Mill
Brought men to Californ ia from the plains, the valleys and hills
Some carried along official charters issued by Grand Lodges way back
home
And only a short time later instituted Masonic lodges on their own.
And the Gods of the Operative Masons said "We're happy to see them
come
the
We'll build for them great temples with the use of the square and
plumb."

j
I

'

Then came the day in Sacramento, nearly one hundred .and fifty years
ago,
When our Grand Lodge was founded as five lodges lined up in a row
in
Californ ia, Western Star, and Tehama , with Jennings and Benicia
line
and
And so Freemas onry was established with its symboli c words
signs.
And the Gods of the Specula tive Masons were in a happy and joyful
state
to
They said "The brotherh ood of Freemas onry we are ready
promulg ate."
the
As our Masonic pioneers grew elderly and passed to that Lodge in
sky
They left behind widows and orphans, in care of men of the Mystic Tie.
And the Gods of the Specula tive Masons said "to relieve the distress
you did swear
To give mind to wives, widows and children and look after their future
.welfare ."
in
Then the Gods of the Operativ e Masons said "Let us erect for those
our care
can
A home for widows and youngste rs, a Home with which none
compare ."
s
And the Gods of the Speculative Masons with understandable swiftnes
agreed
the
"For the care of the distressed and needy" they said, "is written in
Masonic Creed."
So the Gods of the Operativ e Masons with their working tools closely
at hand
l
Built a home for widows and children in the foothills of a beautifu
land
on
On the I 21h of October in 98 there happene d to the Masonic Home
the hill
and
A dedicati on by Californ ia's Grand Lodge with devotion, love
l.
goodwil
When the kids at the Decoto Home got too noisy; they were bundled
away down state

5

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

They arrived safe and sound at San Gabriel and there they would have
to wait
Until a brand new Home at Covina was built and ready to go
Then they moved into beautiful new buildings with acres of grass to
mow.

With the square, the plumb, and level our buildings have won great
awards"
And the Gods of the Operative Masons returned to their drawing
boards.

And the Gods of the Speculative Masons told them, "Read about
science and art
As you go to the public schools at Covina and learn what the teachers
impart."
And the children at the Home at Covina, the best kids we have in mind
Learned many of life's lessons from teachers of the finest kind
And when came the day eventually they were ready to fly on their own
Scholarships cleared the way to college among the very best that were
known.
Graduates have served in the armed forces and then entered life
contemporary
Becoming successful in marriage and business and as citizens we call
exemplary.
Way back when the Decoto Home was building, an idea was born that
would grow
It was properly called the Endowment Fund that all Masons would
come to know.
It started with twelve thousand dollars and its total has continued to
climb
Today it has reached great proportions and its benefits last a lifetime.
No Endowment funds are expended, but its income proceeds to mount
And is spent every month on our elderly and children where its benefits
can really count.

The Homes have many supporters besides many Lodge donations
unrivaled
Now add to these benefactors the names Lorber, Grider, Coil and
MacDonald.
And the Gods of the Speculative Masons said "We always learn from
the past
That the Greatest of These is Charity whose generosity continues to
last."
The Gods of the Operative Masons never wanting to be out done
Said "Look at all the buildings that Masonic Benevolence has done.

7

Then the Gods of the Speculative Masons came back to explain it again
They said "Masonry builds its temples in the hearts and minds of men."
The activities for seniors at Union City can be counted in so many ways
From trips to the local shopping malls to the ballpark of the Oakland
A's
There are arts and crafts for the creative and books with big type to
read
Provided by Lady Tigers who recognized an important need.
For those who want to shape up there's always the Grider Health
Quarter
Where a therapy pool makes it possible for the seniors to walk in water.
As we celebrate the one hundredth birthday of the Masonic Homes we
embrace
We can never pay enough homage to Trustees always hard to replace
There are many among the living but we look tonight at the past
To Brothers Wollenberg, Adams, and Sedam whose memory shall long
Jast.
We have designated buildings in their memory for the devotion and
love they bestowed
Toward the Residents at Union City and their esteem for the Masonic
code.
Our Masonic Homes have had fine leaders who pledged their best to
perform
Their duties as administrators and their work high above the norm
Brothers Brown, David, Ankney, Rose, Wiest, and Blaine
And others devoted to caring and whose commitment in our memory
remains.

I pause here to acknowledge other fine Administrators from the past,
Brothers Hartman, Eubank, Perry, and Herring. The reason I could not include
them in the verses was because I could find no words to rhyme with their names.

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

And the Gods of the Speculative Masons remind us these men had
strong beliefs
In what they learned in the Masonic teachings of Brotherly Love, Truth
and Relief.

But the Gods of the Speculative Masons and the Gods Operatively
inclined
Will never rest from their labors and their works be unalterably
entwined.

So the Gods of the Operative Masons said "There's always building
emerging"
So they built a new hall named Siminoff and a modem Lorber Skilled
Nursing
Apartments were added at Covina so our seniors could find a new
home
And kinds without home or Masonic relations would no longer have to
roam.

Then only the Great Architect shall praise us and only He shall blame
And no one shall work for money and no one shall work for fame
But each for the joy of working and each on a favorite separate star
With the working tools God gave us, the God of Things as they are.

So one hundred years are completed by our Homes of incomparable
worth
Built and maintained by Masons on the best of California's earth
And the Gods of the Operative Masons are happy to have played their
part
And the Gods of the Speculative Masons said "Charity comes from the
heart."
As Freemasonry in California has for nearly one hundred and fifty
years progressed
Our Masonic Homes have flourished and their goal to serve has never
digressed.

Before I recite the last two verses of this narrative based on a poem by
Rudyard Kipling titled "L'Envoi to the Seven Seas" I want again to acknowledge
the inspiration from his works. I may be preempting the Grand Master but as the
fonner trustee living who served the longest, I want to personally thank the trustees
past and present who have served with diligence, dedication and devotion for so
many years, the men and women who have worked for the Homes and provided
such tender loving care for the residents, and the thousands upon thousands of
Masons who have supported the Homes, morally and finally, for one hundred
years.
When the earth's last picture is painted and the tubes are twisted and
dried
When the oldest colors have faded and the youngest critic has died
We shall rest and, yes, we shall need it, Masons of charity, faith, and
hope
For the work we set out to do is nearly finished and we're now on that
slippery slope.

t
•.!

l
~·

9

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Norbert E. Driggers ........ .. .... .. . · ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Potentate
Al Malaikah Shrine Temple, A.A.0 .N.MS.
Ladd R. Born . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Potentate
Ben Ali Shrine Temple, A.A.ON.MS.

V:.W :. George Stablein, Sr.. . ..... Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge ofArizona
V :.W :. Gordon J. Phillips Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge of British Columbia
R :.W:. George Blue . . ... Deputy Grand Master, Prince Hall Grand Lodge of
California and Hawaii, Inc.
R :.W :. Herby Price, Jr. .. Senior Grand Warden, Prince Hall Grand Lodge of
California and Hawaii, Inc.
R:.W:. Charles E. Tyner . Junior Grand Warden, Prince Hall Grand Lodge of
California and Hawaii, Inc.
R:.W :. LeYell McClain . ... . ... Grand Lecturer, Prince Hall Grand Lodge of
California and Hawaii, Inc.
W :. Tommie E. Philips .... . ..... . ......... District Deputy Grand Master
Prince Hall Grand Lodge of California and Hawaii, Inc.
M:.W :. Joseph L. Boster ...... Past Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Wyoming
R:.W:. Bruno Verge ...... .. ..... . .... Provincial Assistant Grand Master
Grand Lodge National Francais
R:. W :. Jeffry N. Lewis . . . . Deputy Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Minnesota

12

Durwood Ayre . .... .. .... .... .. . ..... i;1~",;, Sh;i~~-T~;,,~i~. A.A.~~z.n;:.;
Allen J. Bull . .. . .... . .... . . . ... . . ... . . . .. ... . .. ... . ...... Potentate
Tehran Shrine Temple, A.A.ON.MS.
Bruce o. Carmitchel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grand Governor
York Rite Sovereign College ofNorth America
Lt. Colonel William J. Ryland (Ret) ............. . ..... National President
National Sojourners, Inc.
Mrs. Linda MacArthur-Thurm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Past Grand President
representing Order of the Golden Slipper
Betty Collins . ...... .. ... .. ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Queen
Daughters ofthe Nile, Islam Temple No. 25
The Grand Master welcomed these distinguished visitors to the Grand
Lodge of California, observing that each of the organizations they repres~nt _ are
part of the strength of Freemasonry and contribute much to our common m1ss1on.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Marshal to conduct Mrs. Kathleen Kelly,
Grand Royal Matron of the Grand Court of California, Order of the Amaranth, to
a seat in the East. The Grand Marshal then escorted the visitors to seats prepared
for them in the auditorium.
The Grand Marshal was called upon to retire and escort into Grand Lodge
the visitors from our sister Grand Lodges, and there were presented for
introduction:

M :.W :. Larry c. Schafer . .. . .... ... Grand Master, Grand Lodge ofArizona
M:. w:. Harold C. Nordan . . Grand Master, Grand Lodge of British Columbia
M :. w:. Paul D. Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Hawaii
R:.W:. John W. Sharp . ... .. .. Senior Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Id~ho
M :.W :. Mozafar Jandaghi ..... Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Iran (m Exile)
R:.W :. Kenneth J. Bruchez . . Senior Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Montana
M:.W :. Dan F. Irick ....... . ... Grand Master, Grand Lodge ofNew Mexico
M :. w:·. Ronald Robinson . . . . .... Grand Master, Prince Hall Grand Lodge of
California and Hawaii, Inc.
R:. w:. Peter N. Doelfs ..... . ... Junior Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Utah
M:.W :. George C. Smith . .. . . . . ... Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Wyoming
R:.W:. Donald W. Monson . . . Deputy Grand Master, Grand Lodge ofArizona

13

The Grand Master extended the welcome of the officers and brethren of
the Grand Lodge of California to the distinguished visitors, and directed the Grand
Marshal to conduct our visitors to the seats reserved for them.
The Grand Master then called on Mrs. Kathleen Kelly, Grand Royal
Matron of the Gra.Ad Court of California, Order of the Amaranth, to bring greetings
on behalf of the Family of Freemasonry in California, and all our distinguished
visitors.
RESPONSE TO THE WELCOME TO DISTINGUISHED VISITORS

By H.L. Kathleen Kelly, Grand Royal Matron
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Distinguished Members of the Masonic
Family and Brethren of California Freemasonry:
Most Worshipful, on behalf of the distinguished v1s1tors
assembled here this afternoon, it is my great honor and privilege to thank
you for your most gracious and cordial welcome, and for the many
courtesies extended to us. Most Worshipful Tony, we applaud you for
your many efforts on behalf of Masonry this year. The warm personality
of yourself and your Lady Marilyn has won the hearts of the entire
Masonic Family. We are proud to be a part of that Masonic Family and

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

appreciate your invitation to attend the Public Opening of the Grand
Lodge of California.
As members of the Masonic Family we share your concern for
the loss of membership in all our orders. I remind the ladies that the
restriction of not asking a man to become a Mason does not apply to us,
and I urge each one of you to seek out those good men, encourage them
to join, and help the Masonic Fraternity rebuild for the future.
Sir Knight and Most Worshipful Tony-I can refer to the Grand
Master as Sir Knight because he became a member of the Order of the
Amaranth last year-we wish for you, and the many California
Freemasons attending this 149th Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of California, a most hannonious, productive and successful
session.
Thank you, Most Worshipful Sir, for affording me the privilege
of bringing this response. This is indeed a day that will always remain
"sweet in my memory."
The Grand Master asked the Grand Marshal to retire and escort to a place
west of the Altar the Adult Leaders of our Masonic Youth Groups and the Youth
Leaders of those Youth Groups. The following were introduced:
Anna Lind ..... . ..... Supreme Nature and Supreme Inspector in California
International Order ofRainbow for Girls
Ann Marie Short . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grand Guardian of the State of California
International Order ofJob 's Daughters
Bill Wren .. . . . . . ...... Associate Grand Guardian of the State of California
International Order ofJob 's Daughters
Bro. Edwin Clarke . . ..... . ....... .. ... ... .. . .. ... ... Executive Officer
Jurisdiction of Northern California, International Order of DeMolay
Bro. Gaylord V. Roten .. ... .. . .. .. .. . .. .. ... .. . . . . .. . Executive Officer
Jurisdiction of Southern California, International Order of DeMolay
Miss Elizabeth Nicks .... . ...... . . . ..... . ....... Grand Worthy Advisor
Grand Assembly of California, International Order of Rainbow for Girls
Miss Tamara Thorp . . ... . ... . . . .. . . . . . . .. . Grand Bethel Honored Queen
Grand Bethel of California, International Order ofJob 's Daughters
Miss Pam Sepulveda . . . . . . "Miss Job's Daughter" of California, I997-I998

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

15

Mr. Jannik P. Catalano .... . ...... . ........ . .......... Master Councilor
Northern California DeMolay Association
Mr. Scott Fisher . . ... .. .. . . . . . ......... .. .. .. .. . ... . Master Councilor
Jurisdiction of Southern California, Order of DeMolay
The Grand Master welcomed the leaders of the Masonic youth groups,
expressing the thanks of the Masonic Fraternity for their dedication and leadership .
He then asked the Grand Marshall to conduct the leaders of the leaders of the youth
groups to the East, and escort the adult leaders to seats in the auditorium.
The Grand Master then called on each of the elected leaders of the
Masonic Youth Groups for comments. Each spoke eloquently to the assembled
guests, and their remarks were wannly received. After their remarks, the Grand
Master commented that each year the California Masonic Foundation and the
Grand Lodge of California express their support for the Masonic Youth Groups by
financially supporting their leadership training programs. He then presented
checks totaling $4,000 for each of the youth groups - $2,500 from the California
Masonic Foundation and $1,500 from the Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Master then presented the Grand Master's Youth Achievement
Award for 1998. The recipient was Brother Robert E. Anderson, a member of 01 d
West Lodge No. 813, in Newhall. At the direction of the Grand Master, the Grand
Marshal escorted Brother Anderson to a place west of the Altar. The Grand
Master, joined by the Deputy Grand Master, presented him with the award. The
Grand Master led the assembled guests in a standing ovation in honor of the
recipient.
GRAND MASTER'S YOUTH SERVICES AW ARD RECIPIENT

Brother Robert E. Anderson
Brother Robert E. Anderson is a member of Old West Lodge
No. 813, in Newhall, California. While Job's Daughters is where he has
put most of his time and energy, Brother Anderson has also been very
supportive of the Order ofDeMolay. After being closed for several years,
Old West Chapter, Order of DeMolay was in the process of being
reinstituted and a search was being conducted for Advisory Board
Members. With his love of youth, it was a natural choice that Brother
Anderson was asked to serve on the Instituting Board. He accepted the
challenge of a new Chapter and served with pride, doing every task that
was asked of him, even going the extra mile and accomplishing all the
little jobs that no one seemed to know who was supposed to take care of,

16

GRAND LOD GE OF CAL IFOR NIA

PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

yone was not familiar with their
as the Cha pter was so new and ever
a
gh Brother Anderson is no longer
various responsibilities. Even thou
continues to support the Chapter with
mem ber of the Advisory Board, he
.
rs encouragement when ever possible
their activities and projects and offe
Associate Bethel Guardian
Bro ther Anderson has served as an
el
Bethel No. 305 in Reseda and Beth
for Bethel No. 22 in Santa Paula,
as
of 14 years. He continues to fill-in
No. 322 in Northridge, for a total
ve
nev er needed, not only for the abo
an Associate Bethel Guardian whe
in
142
No.
el
Beth
k,
ban
Bur
208 in
Bethels, but for Bethels 97 and
o.
and
Fern
San
in
76
No.
el
and Beth
Oxnard, Bethel No. 249 in Newhall
t
nigh
n
give
any
ost
alm
found on
Bob and his wife Jo-Ann may be
.
area
te
Mon
ar
ia/M
forn
Southern Cali
atte ndin g a Bethel meeting in the
ociate Bethel Guardian, setting up
Ass
an
as
n
ng-i
And, Bob will be filli
mov ing chairs and assisting in the
and taking down Bethel rooms,
fills it. He is always ready to help
Banquet Room. He finds a need and
that he doe sn't do it.
and is nev er asked to do something,
Advisor for the Mar Monte
He has served a one -yea r term as
e and is presently serving in this
Gua rdia n Council Association twic
ia
e position for the Southern Californ
capacity. He also served in the sam
by
held
be
t
mus
that
is a position
Gua rdia n Council Association. This
a Past Associate Beth el Guardian.
or
n
rdia
Gua
el
either an Associate Beth
that is often difficult to fill. But that
It is a thankless job and a position
it.
n. There was a need and he filled
has nev er deterred Brother Anderso
tain of the Guards at the
Bro ther Anderson has served as Cap
y
well as serving as a Guard for man
annual session of Grand Bethel, as
ble
onsi
resp
are
this
do
as the men who
years. Again, this is a difficult job
ts
sands of Job 's Daughters and adul
thou
the
of
fare
for the safety and wel
a
aren
the
in
g
bein
of
y think nothing
who are attending Grand Bethel. The
the
at
only
not
d,
also been foun
for 12 to 15 hours a day. He has
Weekends, assisting the Grand
Girl
el
Beth
nd
convention, but at the Gra
of
their cars, carrying untold numbers
Bethel Girls loading and unloading
ed
lock
into
"
ting
flat tires and "get
boxes and suitcases and even changing
in the ignition.
left
been
cars to retrieve keys that had
the State of California as the
In 1994 Brother Anderson served
with pride. He trav eled the length
Grand Outer Guard, a position he held
g Job 's Daughters anywhere and
and width of our State, promotin
Bethel Daughter as if she were his
everywhere he could. He treated each
to her, giving each one "an angel for
very own granddaughter, listening
in any way he could. The Bethel
her sho ulde r" and encouraging her
Daughters loved him dearly.

17

For the last five yea rs, Broth er Anderson has served as the
Sou d E .
the proceedings for
bn chru:fe
the
;:~~d ~.~anEal~o be found working
tirelessly for the Hearing /:::
Gra n; Beth~l ::e nt (H.I.K.~.)
Foundation at both Supreme Session,
Job 's Daughters International
H.I.K.E. is.also
He
kids, especially our Masonic kids.
is never ~~~::~~I~ truly ~i~ the
asks
er
nev
he
and
do,
sn't
doe
o anyt mg that he I'
anyth' .
I
mg m return He knows by name, itera ly hundreds of these kids
and reme b
10, 15, 20 years ago. He is truly
amazin ; ers, Y n~e, those from
gnition that could be given to him
.
He is ti g :id~ deservmg of any reco "Sw eet Ole Bob."
on Y own to many of us as

~recording

:nnu:f:s:~::do~~r1:~n

Philan~:1c~~ec:~:

th~

b

'

.
d.
h
Brother Vince Parell then f:avored t e au ience with a special song, "If' n
I was God."
t'

duced Br th Th
The Grand Mas ter then intro
. So er o~ Stecher, who has been
M
the
in
ors
ruct
inst
two
the
one of
the
has~mc tude~t Assistance Program at
Masonic Home at Covina · Mr · Stec er s remarks mclud d dram · prayer of
at1c
e a
.
hh db
resp ons ibili ty for our children whi
her living in the
mot
a
by
t:n
wnt
~en
a
ck
South Side of Chicago . His ;em ar s were mformat1ve and in . . and were
sprrmg
.
ence.
received enthusiastically by the audi
.
.
h
each e
The Grahd Mas ter stated that h
Masonic
n1a
hfor
,,Ca
e
t
ar
the "T
Foundation honors the finalists for
State
the
for
ard
M ~-ac er o e Year Aw
the
of California. He then introduced
of
cher
Tea
the
on,
mps
r. bmw ood Tho
f
f
Yea r from Bellflower · Mr · Th ompson rought the
of
hers
teac
the
gree mgs o
California and thanks for all that F
e
prid
his
ed
ress
exp
He
~em~sonry has done.
at being associated with Masons a
ying
plif
exem
~is:~~ a powerful presentation
his dynamic methods for teachi~g
.
M
The Grand Master then call d
:ad
PGM who introduced the brother he
then introduced Bro ther Mik e
Reynolds~ost Worshipful Brother Gordon

jth

u:e~;cte::: ':Y:i:~;~i ~:~~;r ~ordon,

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASON OF THE YEAR FOR 1998

David Walker, is in Salinas Valley State Prison, serving a nine-year term
on robbery and accessory convictions.

Brother Mike Reynolds
a Member of Las Palmas-Ponderosa Lodge No. 366
by: Vernon L. Gordon, PGM
My Brethren of the Grand Lodge, Members of .o ur Masonic
Family, and our distinguished guests:
Prior to this day, so far as my memory and somewhat limited
research reveals, only six men have been honored by our Grand Lodge
with the rank and title of"Mason of the Year." I have known each man
personally and can say to you that each were or are Masonic giants in our
Fraternity, and each are entitled to be addressed by the most honorable
titles this Fraternity has to offer.
By contrast, the Brother we honor here today has but one
Masonic title, and that is "Master Mason," but in my opinion he is a
Mason who is a giant in our society.
In his private life he is a professional photographer and a deepl_y
devoted family man. He comes from a Masonic family background. His
father was a 33 ° Scottish Rite Mason; his brother John is a Past Master
of Las Palmas-Ponderosa Lodge No. 366, and his mother is a longstanding member of the Order of the Eastern Star.
Our honoree is a member of Las Palmas-Ponderosa Lodge No.
366. He is a Senior DeMolay and has earned the following credits in that
Order: In 1959 he received the York Rite DeMolay Perpetual Trophy
Award· in 1960 the Sciots DeMolay Ritual Award; in 1962 the Scottish
Rite O~tstanding DeMolay A ward; he is the recipient of two Blue Honor
Keys, the Chevalier Degree, and in June of this year he was elect~ to the
DeMolay Legion of Honor, by the International Supreme Council.
Our Brother is not a representative of any legislative body.
However, he has represented the citizens of this State as well as some,
and far better than most.
On June 29, 1992, Kimber Reynolds, a beautiful example of all
about the youth of America, was standing on the sidewalk in
good
is
that
of Fresno, California, when two men tried to steal her
District
the Tower
purse. The first and most natural reaction is to resist. For that instinctive
reaction, Kimber was brutally murdered on the spot.
The trigger man, identified as Michael Davis, 25, was killed a
few days later in a gun battle with the police. The second man, Douglas

During the next few days, following the loss of their youngest

~hild and only daughter, Brother Mike Reynolds and his wife Sharon

retreated to the quiet of their home to try to understand this tremendous
void that had suddenly been cast into their family circle.
Both Mike and Sharon, however, became angered when they
learned that both of the perpetrators had criminal records, with that of the
triggerman being extensive. A month later Brother Mike gathered a few
friends and legal experts around the table and chairs on his patio.
Together they hammered out the "Three Strikes and You're Out" law.
Brother Mike is a strong advocate of recycling the resources of our land;
however, he believes that a certain element of our society cannot be
salvaged by human efforts.
Brother Mike took the draft of his proposed law to the proper
committees of the State Legislature where he found the doors of reason,
concern, and understanding to be shut in his face. Undaunted, Mike took
his cause to the streets of our State, in the form of a voter initiative, and
with much volunteer help and a great deal of his own personal resources
gathered enough signatures to place the issue on the State ballot.
In 1993, the kidnapping and murder of twelve-year old Polly
Klass, in Petaluma, also by a repeat felon, fanned the fires of public
outrage that Mike had created, resulting in the passage of Mike's "Three
Strikes" initiative by an overwhelming majority. By this time the State
Legislature, sensing the mood of the electorate, also passed the measure.
On January 1•1 of this year, Brother Mike's second anti-crime
law, 10-20-Life, also known as "Use a Gun and You're Done" became
law. Essentially this law provides that if you carry a gun during the
commission of a felony it adds l 0 years upon conviction, 20 years if the
gun is fired, and ifthe gunshot kills or seriously injures another person,
the prescribed sentence is life in prison.
There have been many articles in the "Public Speaks" section of
our newspapers praising Mike for his efforts. I share with you just one:
"Mike Reynolds is a man to be admired. He is fighting for the lawabiding citizens with his efforts to get convicted criminals off the streets
of California. He should be commended for all the work he has done to
ensure the safety of the people."
The most effective way to prevent crime is to make the
punishment outweigh the benefits. I hope Reynolds and others will

19

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

continue to strengthen the laws. The tougher America gets, the safer
we'll be.

The Grand Master raised the Masons present, and afforded Brother Mike
Reynolds the Public Grand Honors of Masonry, by the battery of three times three.

Have there been critics? Of course! Hundreds of the apologists
for these heartless criminals raised the cry that we need instead to try to
work with them and show them a better way of life. I applaud them for
the thought, and urge them to go into the target crime areas after dark, and
when they see the car with the smoked windows, cruising the street, pull
them over and admonish them that it is naughty to be out so late at night.
Go into the alleys of these target areas and invite whoever you meet to
join you at your house for dinner next Sunday.
Meanwhile, I will stand under the umbrella of Mike Reynolds'
efforts.

The Grand Master then announced that the ceremonies of the Public
Opening of Grand Lodge had been concluded, and he invited the audience to
remain forthe Devotional Service, which would be held in the Auditorium of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple.

What Brother Mike has done is consistent with what Masons
have done for centuries, taking a vigilant stand in the cause of freedom
and safety for our families. The historical records of our Fraternity show
that whenever and wherever societies were being formed, the Masons
were already there. I cite the following examples: When the City of
Fresno was chartered, Fresno Lodge No. 247 was already ten years old.
When the State of California was drafting its charter, this Grand Lodge
was fully-formed, chartered and operational. And when this great Union
was formed, the Masons were there fighting for and participating in the
framing of its Constitution.
In more recent times, in this decade, there was a cry for a
revolution against habitual criminals and their presence among us.
Brother Mike Reynolds, a Master Mason, was there.
We have been accused in some circles of being a cult. If that be
true, then we proudly admit to being an integral part of the greatest cult
the world has ever known, which we are pleased to call the United States
of America.
Most Worshipful, I commend you on your selection of Brother
Mike Reynolds to receive this honor, and for your decision to choose this
Masonic Family forum for the presentation. I also extend my thanks to
you for permitting me to participate in this the weaving of another golden
thread in the fabric of our Fraternal Order.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Marshal to conduct Brother
Reynolds to a place West of the Altar, and joined by the Deputy Grand Master, he
presented Brother Reynolds with a plaque recognizing him as "Mason of the
Year."

I
I

I

21

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DEVOTIONAL SERVICE

ONE HUNDRED FORTY-NINTH

23

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

The Grand Lodge Devotional Service was held in the Auditorium of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple, at 4:30 p.m. The Invocation was led by the
Grand Chaplain, Very Reverend V. Kent Armstrong. The Grand Chaplain read
from the lOOth Psalm and Matthew 5-15. The Grand Chaplain invited the audience
to join with him in singing the hymn, "Faith of Our Fathers." Worshipful Thomas
M. Boles, Grand Orator, spoke on the Faith of Our Fathers, and Very Worshipful
John L. Cooper III, Grand Secretary, read the 91 ' 1 Psalm. The Benediction was
delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

MONDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 12, 1998
The l 49th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California was called to order by Grand Master
Anthony P. Wordlow at 9:00 a.m. on Monday, October 12, 1998. The opening
session of Grand Lodge was raised by Levon Keshishian, Master of Wisdom
Lodge No. 202, and Don D'Avis, Master of Tehama Lodge No. 3. The gavels
used during the morning session were presented to the Grand Master by the
following lodges: Natoma No. 64; Covina No. 334; Liberal Arts No. 677 and
Winnedumah No. 287.

The Grand Master then invited the audience to retire to the lobby for light
refreshments.

The Grand Secretary was asked to call the roll of Grand Lodge Officers,
Past Grand Masters, and Past Grand Officers, and to ascertain if a constitutional
number of lodges were present to convene the Grand Lodge of California. The
following were present as indicated by their response to the calling of the roll:

[NOTE: The Grand Chaplain's Remarks are found in Appendix G]

I
· 1

I

Elected Officers
M:.W:. Anthony P. Wordlow .................. .......... Grand Master
R:.W:. Melville H. Nahin . .. ............... . ..... Deputy Grand Master
R:.W:. Alvin J. Weis .... .. .................. .... Senior Grand Warden
R:.W:. David C. Decker .................. ........ Junior Grand Warden
V:.W:. Thomas C. Holm .................. ......... ... Grand Treasurer
V :. W :. John L. Cooper III . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grand Secretary
V :.W :. Ulysses G. Patropulos ...... . . ............... . ... Grand Lecturer
Appointed Officers

V:.R:. V. Kent Armstrong . ... . . ...... .. ..... ....... . .. Grand Chaplain
W:. Edward P. Margherio .................. .......... A.G.L. Division I
W:. Robert S. Watanabe .................. . . ....... . A.G.L. Division II
W :. Harold A. Macy ............ .. ........ ..... ... A.G.L. Division III
W :. Willis H. Rogers ..... .... ............. . ....... A.G.L. Division IV
W:. Thomas M. Boles ............. . ............... . .... Grand Orator
W :. Joel H. Springer III . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant Grand Secretary
W :. William L. McDonald .......... . ....... . ........... Grand Marshal
W:. Richard 0. Brown .................. ........ Grand Standard Bearer
W:. Camillo "Blackie" Passarelli ...... .. ..... .. ..... Grand Sword Bearer
W :. Jorge Soto ......... .. .... .. ... ..... ........ .. Grand Bible Bearer

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

W:. Robert D. Rowan, Jr. . ....................... Senior Grand Deacon
W :. Ronald Perry ................................ Junior Grand Deacon
W:. Wesley W. Daniels .......................... Senior Grand Steward
W :. Pascual "Don" Ecalnea . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Junior Grand Steward
W:. Frederick G. Kleyn III ............................ Grand Pursuivant
W:. Francis C. Atkinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grand Organist
W:. Howard J. Dumont .................................. Grand Tiler
W:. Joseph Von Geczy ........................... Asst. Grand Organist
W:. Jack M. Rose ................................... Asst. Grand Tiler

Escort of the Past Grand Masters
The Grand Master then asked the Past Grand Masters to retire so that they
could be escorted into the auditorium and introduced. This being done, the Grand
Master welcomed the Past Grand Masters by remarking his appreciation for the
dedicated service that they have rendered to the Grand Lodge. The Grand Marshal
then introduced each Past Grand Master, following which the Grand Master,
accompanied by the Deputy Grand Master, personally greeted each. They were
then escorted to seats reserved for them in the auditorium.
The following were asked to rise as groups for recognition: Hiram A ward
Recipients, Golden Veteran Award Recipients, Worshipful Masters, Lodge
Secretaries, Grand Lodge Committee members, members of ConstitutionalBoards,
and District Inspectors. Each group was greeted with a round of applause.

Past Grand Masters

M:.W:. William H. Price
M:.W:. Theodore Meriam
M:.W:. Donald B. McCaw
M:.W:. Raymond A. Ebbage
M:.W:. Robert 0. West
M:.W:. Vernon L. Gordon
M:.W:. E. Arthur Haglund
M:.W:. Harry L. Maynard
M:.W:. John W. Driskell
M:.W:. Roy J. Henville
M :. W :. Leo B. Mark
M :. W :. Jack R. Levitt
M:.W:. Stanley L. Channon
M:.W:. Sam M. Pavlovich
M:.W:. Ronald A. Sherod
M:.W:. Stanley M. Cazneaux
M:.W:. R. Stephen Doan
M:.W:. Warren J. Blomseth
M:.W:. William F. Stovall
M:.W:. Charles H. Alexander
M:.W:. Allen B. Gresham

25

The Grand Secretary reported that all Lodges have paid their annual per
capita assessment to Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master noted that on the Altar today is the famous Miner's
Bible from Tehama Lodge that we used last year for the Installation and will be
used during the ceremonies this year. He thanked the Master, Brother Don D' A vis
for allowing us to again use their very precious Bible.

•

Very Worshipful Ulysses G. Patropulos introduced Worshipful Brother
Winfield Witmer, the Master of Golden Gate Speranza Lodge No. 30, who is
serving as the Master of a Lodge for the first time at the age of 95. Worshipful
Brother Witmer ~as received with a standing ovation.

Past Grand Officers
V :. W :. Joe Hammond ............................. Past Grand Lecturer
V :. W :. Ralph H. Head . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Past Grand Treasurer
V:.W:. Verne W. Hendrix ......................... Past Grand Secretary
V:.W:. Robert A. Klinger ......................... Past Grand Secretary
V:.W:. Herbert P. Wilkins ......................... Past Grand Treasurer
The Grand Secretary announced that the Committee on Credentials had
reported that there were present the officers or representatives of at least twenty
percent of the Lodges chartered by Grand Lodge, and that therefore a quorum was
present as required for the transaction of business.
The Grand Master then opened Grand Lodge in ample form. The Grand
Marshal and the Deacons retired to escort the Flag of the United States of America
into the Auditorium, which was followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

Memorial Service
The Grand Master then called on Bro. Emile R. Laversin, Chairman of the
Memorial Service Committee, to conduct the Memorial Service for departed
members of Grand Lodge.
Most Worshipful Donald B. McCaw, Past Grand Master, delivered a
Eulogy in memory for Past Grand Master Lester Stafford McElwain.

26

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

27

EULOGY
LESTER STAFFORD MCELWAIN
Grand Master 1971-1972
Born: January 1, 1910
Entered into Rest: September 28, 1998

Lester Stafford McElwain, a Master Mason in the truest and finest sense
of that honored title. He entered this world as a native son in San Mateo on New
Year's Day in 1910, the child of George W. and Ethel Dickson McElwain, and he
entered into rest on September 28, 1998 in Pleasanton, California at the age of
eighty-eight years, eight months and twenty-eight days.
What a full life and wonderful career he has experienced, and how
fortunate the Grand Lodge of California was to have had him serve as our 1061h
Grand Master.
Les well profited from the examples of hard work and industry
demonstrated by his parents, and started his business career as a young boy selling
morning newspapers at the Southern Pacific Railroad depot in San Mateo. He
attended his hometown public schools and spent countless after school and
weekend hours with the Boy Scouts of America learning their important lessons,
including love of family, high moral principles, and patriotism, ultimately
becoming one of the first Eagle Scouts in San Mateo County.
Les Mc'Elwain matriculated to Stanford University and joined the Phi
Sigma Kappa fraternity. This large-framed, six foot two inch, broad-shouldered
young man played on the Stanford Varsity basketball and handball teams, and
graduated with a Bachelor of Arts Degree in economics in 1931. His summers
were spent swinging a twelve pound sledge hammer driving stakes for a Southern
Pacific Company survey party and working with a shovel for a Pacific Gas &
Electric Company labor party while they were building dams to create
hydroelectric power.
Young Les then attended Stanford Law School; became a member of the
Phi Alpha Delta honorary legal fraternity; and graduated with the Degree of Juris
Doctor in 1934. Upon graduation, he was admitted to practice law in California
and joined an Oakland law firm specializing in trial practice. Les became a junior
partner in the firm, and after six years, in December, 1940, with World War II on
the horizon, he volunteered for active duty with the Intelligence Branch of the
United States Navy, in which he served until the war was over, being honorably
discharged with the rank of Commander in December, 1945.
LESTER STAFFORD MCELWAIN
PAST GRAND MASTER

January 1, 1910 - September 28, 1998

I

I

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

During the war, Les met and married Margrite Beadle Ludlow, and,
together, they produced three sons, Roderick, Malcolm and Douglas, all of whom
followed in their father's footsteps to become Eagle Scouts.
Les McElwain returned to the practice of law following the war and
became very active in numerous civic and service organizations, including service
as the Vice President of the California Junior Chamber of Commerce and as a
Director of the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Brother McElwain received all three Degrees of Masonry in 1937 in
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403 of Oakland (now Live Oak Lodge No. 61 ), and in
December of 1950 was elected and installed as its Master. In that same year he
became a member of the Oakland Kiwanis Service Organization where he served
for forty-five years, becoming its President in 1976 and three years later he was
elected a Lieutenant Governor in the International Kiwanis Organization.
Les became the Venerable Master of the Oakland Bodies of the Scottish
Rite in 1966, having been coronetted at the House of the Temple in 1957 as a
Scottish Rite Mason of the 33'd Degree. He later served the Oakland Bodies for
twenty-two years as its Chairman and Personal Representative of the Sovereign
Grand Inspector General in California.
Following his diligent participation as a member of numerous Boards and
Committees of the Grand Lodge, Most Worshipful Brother Lester S. McElwain
was installed as our Grand Master in October of 1971, the 52°d attorney to occupy
that office. His family, Boy Scout, Naval and legal training well prepared him, and
he will be remembered for his dynamic and innovative leadership which reflected
his determination of character, initiative, strength and wisdom, all while displaying
a smile and friendly personal attitude, together with emotional sensitivity
concerning those with whom he had close personal ties.
Past Grand Master Les McElwain left as a legacy his love for the
fraternity and the entire Masonic family. By his Edict on June 23, 1972, he
expressed his beliefthat there was great need for attention to be focused upon our
Country's courageous beginnings, its heritage of Masonic tradition, and the
manifold blessings which resulted, by proclaiming "Patriotism Week" to be
observed by Masons each year following the September 17th Anniversary of the
signing of the United States Constitution.
He urged meaningful support of our Youth Orders, and, as further
evidence of his belief in America, mailed a personal message to each of the
227,000 Masons in his California and Hawaii jurisdiction calling upon them to
participate in community public service.
In 1977 following the termination of his first marriage the previous year,
Les married a long-time family friend, Loretta Barksdale, the widow of Dr. Robert

j

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

29

Barksdale. Lori and Les had a happy nineteen years of marriage travelling
throughout the world and thoroughly enjoying themselves at Masonic, Kiwanis,
Stanford and other functions, and by receiving great pleasure from their respective
children and seven grandchildren. Sadly, Lori preceded Les in death in February
of 1996.
Les McElwainhas been a great benefactorto scholarship funds he created
through the California Masonic Foundation and the Kiwanis Foundation, and he
has been most generous in sharing.his worldly accumulations with the DeMolay
Foundation, the Masonic Homes of California, Stanford University, and numerous
other educational and philanthropic charities.
Most Worshipful Brother McElwain was also a member of the Aahmes
Temple of the Shrine, and as much as we feel the loss of this great man, it is fitting
that he was attending a Shrine Mason meeting when he suffered a massive stroke
which resulted in his death some ten days later.
We shall ever cherish in our hearts the memory of our departed Brother,
and commending his spirit to Almighty God, we trustingly leave him in the hands
of that Beneficent Being who has done all things well; who is glorious in His
Holiness, wondrous in His Power, and boundless in His Goodness; and it should
always be our endeavor so to live that we too may be found worthy to inherit the
kingdom prepared for us from the foundation of the world.

30

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Master's Message
The Grand Master then relinquished his chair to the Deputy Grand Master
for the purpose of delivering the Grand Master's Message (Appendix A). After his
message, the Grand Master received a standing ovation, ·following which he
resumed his station.
Reports of Grand Lodge Officers, Boards and Committees
The Grand Master then called on several of the Boards and Committees
to make reports to Grand Lodge. The reports were given in the order indicated,
beginning on Monday morning, and continuing at various times through the close
of Grand Lodge. They are included here for ease of reference. Where a motion is
made by an officer or committee chairman (as for the Trial Review Committee),
the motion is included below at the appropriate time in the schedule. The reports
are to be found in the Appendix as indicated after each Board or Committee.
Grand Treasurer Thomas C. Holm:
Grand Secretary John L. Cooper III:
Grand Lecturer Ulysses G. Patropulos:
California Masonic Foundation:Don ald A. Nielsen
Masonic Homes of California Board: Stanley M. Cazneaux, PGM
Masonic Homes Endowment Board: W. Bruce Pruitt
California Masonic Memorial Temple: Francis A. Russell, Jr.
Nob Hill Masonic Management Inc.: Warren J. Blomseth, PGM
Trial Review Committee: Donald R. Fretz
Jurisprudence Committee: R. Stephen Doan
Charters Committee: Harold H. Hand
Wardens' Management Retreat Committee:
Stanley M. Cazneaux, PGM
Tournament of Roses Parade Float Committee:
Stanley Channon, PGM

Appendix D
Appendix E
Appendix F
Appendix J
Appendix J
Appendix J
Appendix J
Appendix J
Appendix K
Appendix K
Appendix K
Appendix K
Appendix K

Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
The Grand Secretary reported that during the year the Grand Master had
extended interim recognition to extended interim recognition to three new Grand
Lodges this year. The first was formed in the Canadian Province ofNewfoundlan d
and Labrador, the second in the former African country once known as Upper
Volta, and now known as Burkina Faso. The last was formed in the Republic of
Bulgaria. It was moved, seconded and carried that the Grand Lodge of California

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31

grant recognition to the Grand Lodge of Bulgaria, the Grand Lodge of Burkina
Faso, and the Grand Lodge of Newfoundland and Labrador.
The Grand Master then introduced Brother Tom Jones, who was raised
in our Masonic Home at Covina. He has completed the Child Abuse Awareness
Run, a journey on foot from the Oregon state line to the Mexican border on behalf
of abused children, which raised over $100,000 for the benefit of the Masonic
Homes and other charities helping abused children. Brother Jones then addressed
the Grand Lodge about the profound impact Masons and Freemasonry have had
on his life, and about his plans for a national run from New York to Los Angeles
to raise funds and create awareness of the problems of abused children.
Worshipful Dale St. Clair, Master of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224,
presented the Grand Master with a check in the amount of$ I 0,000, on behalf of
one of their deceased members, Brother Ed Angel.
At 12:00 Noon on Monday, October 12, the Grand Master calkd the
Grand Lodge from labor to refreshment, and called on again at I : 15 p.m. After
prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the Grand Master noted that Grand Lodge was
raised forthe afternoon by RudolphH. Bauer, Master, Hollywood Lodge No. 355
and Patrick R. Casady, Master, Western Star No. 2. The gavels used this afternoon
were presented to the Grand Master by the following lodges: Hollywood No . 3 55;
Table Mountain No. 124; Chico-Leland Stanford No. 111 ; and the Lodges of the
447th Masonic District.
The Gratid Master then directed the Grand Marshal to escort into the
auditorium the visiting Grand Masters from sister jurisdictions. The following
Grand Masters were received with Private Grand Honors and introduced:

M:.W :. Larry C. Schafer ......... . ..... .. .... . ..... .. ....... Arizona
M:.W :. Harold C. Nordan .... . .. . .. . ..... . .. . . . . . . ... British Columbia
M :. W :. Paul D. Jones . .. . ... .. .. . . . .... .. ..... . ........... . .. Hawaii
M :.W :. Mozafar Jandaghi . .. . . ... . . . .. ..... .. .... . .. .... Iran (in Exile)
M :.W :. Dan F. Irick ....... . ... .. ... .. . . . . . . .. ..... .. . . . New Mexico
R :.W:. James L. Ernette .... . ..... . .............. ... .. ... Pennsylvania
M :.W :. Ronald Robinson .... . ... .. .... . ... . .. Prince Hall Grand Lodge of
California and Hawaii, Inc.
M:.W :. George C. Smith ... . ..... ... .. .. . . . . ... .. .. .. .. . . .. Wyoming
The Grand Master and the Deputy Grand Master greeted each Grand
Master individually and returned to the East. The Grand Master directed the Grand
Marshal to conduct Right Worshipful James L. Ernette, Grand Master of Masons

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in Pennsylvania, to a seat in the East, and to conduct the other visiting Grand
Masters to the seats reserved for them.
The Grand Master then directed the Grand Marshal to escort into the
auditorium the representatives of the Grand Masters of Masons in other
jurisdictions. The following representatives of Grand Masters were introduced,
personally greeted by the Grand Master and the Deputy Grand Master, and
escorted to the seats reserved for them.

It was moved, seconded, and carried that in each of the Trial Records
numbered 2383, 2398, 2404, 2405, 2406, 2408, 2410, and 2412, the judgment and
penalty imposed be and are ratified, affirmed and approved.

R:. W:. John w. Sharp . ............. ........ Senior Grand Warden, Idaho
R:.W :. Kenneth J. Bruchez ............. .. Senior Grand Warden, Montana
R:. W:. Peter N. Doelfs . ..... . ............. ... Junior Grand Warden, Utah
R:.W:. Bruno Verge ........ ..... ..... Provincial Assistant Grand Master,
Grand Lodge National Francais
R:.W:. Jeffry N. Lewis ............. ..... Deputy Grand Master, Minnesota
The Grand Master then invited Brother James L. Emette, Grand Master
of Masons in Pennsylvania, to address the Grand Lodge on behalf of the visiting
Grand Masters and representatives of the other Grand Jurisdictions.

Grand Oration
The Grand Master then called upon the Grand Orator, Wor. Thomas M.
Boles, who presented the Grand Oration (Appendix H). The Grand Oration was
greeted at its conclusion with a standing ovation.
The Grand Master called upon Most Worshipful Richard Fletcher, Past
Grand Master, who brought greetings from the Masonic Service Association of
North America . He presented a Certificate of Appreciation to Most Worshipful
Anthony P. Wordlow recognizing his abiding interest in and generous support of
the Masonic Service Association's National Hospital Visitation Program.
Committee on Trial Review
It was individually moved by Donald R. Fretz, Chairman of the Trial
Review Committee, that the following recommendations of the Trial Review
Committee be accepted by Grand Lodge. The motions were severally seconded by
the Grand Lecturer, and each was carried unanimously. They are as follows :

33

It was moved, seconded and carried that in Trial Record No. 2407, the
finding of the Trial Commissioners be affinned and approved, except that the
penalty is raised to expulsion.
It was moved, seconded and carried that in Trial Record No. 2411 , the
findings of the Trial Commissioners be reversed and set aside and the matter be
remanded for further proceedings and retrial with the following instructions to the
Trial Master. In any retrial of these charges, the Trial Commissioners shall be
instructed that the crimes of I) shooting at an occupied vehicle, and 2) assault with
a firearm are crimes which involve moral turpitude as a matter of law."
It was moved, seconded and carried that in Trial Record No. 2409, the
findings of the Trial be affirmed and the penalty raised to expulsion.
It was moved, seconded and carried that the records of this Grand Lodge
shall show that the penalty in Trial Record No. 2219 was fixed in 1985 at
suspension.
It was moved, seconded and carried that the application for restoration in
Trial Record No. 2330 be denied.

Charters Committee
It was moved by Harold Hand that the Lodge consolidations which had
occurred since the last Annual Communication be approved by the Grand Lodge
and that the Grand Secretary be authorized to endorse the appropriate Charters.
The motion was seconded by the Grand Lecturer, and carried.

Legislation
The Grand Master called on the Chairman of the Finance Committee,
Very WorshipfulHerbertP. Wilkins, to inform the delegates of those issues before
Grand Lodge which have no significant financial impact. Those matters that have
financial impact will be reported on as the Grand Lodge considers each issue. He
then reviewed the rules of procedure to be used, and asked the Grand Secretary to
explain the balloting procedure.

34

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Appointment of Distribution Committee
The Grand Master asked the Deputy Grand Master to announce the
composition of the Distribution Committee, which he had previously appointed at
the request of the Grand Master. The members of the Committee are Very
Worshipful Herbert P. Wilkins, Chairman of the Finance Committee; Most
Worshipful R. Stephen Doan, Chairman of the Jurisprudence Committee; and
Worshipful Lester Miller, Chairman of the Policy and General Purposes
Committee. Appreciation was expressed to them by the Grand Master for their
services rendered to Grand Lodge in assigning legislation to the various
committees for consideration.
Then he asked the Deputy Grand Master to assume his station, while he
delivered to Grand Lodge the Grand Master' s Decisions and Recommendationsfo r
their consideration. These Decisions and Recommendations are to be found in
Appendix I, togetherwith the Grand Master's remarks on each one, and committee
reports where presented. The vote on each is also reported there. The following
summary of Grand Master's Decisions and Recommendations is provided, together
with the final vote on each one:
Grand Master's Decisions
Decision No. I :
Continuing the Suspension
of the Master of Pasadena
Lodge No. 272

YES
NO

1315
15

98.9"/o
1.1%

AFFIRMED

Decision No. 2:
Allowing Optional Long
Form for First and Second
Degree Proficiencies

YES
NO

1189
140

89.5%
10.5%

AFFIRMED

Decision No. 3:
Allowing the Wearing of
Article of Personal Religious
Significance in Tiled Lodge

YES
NO

539
767

41.3%
58.7%

FAILED

35

Grand Master's Recommendation
Recommendation No. I :
Financial Accountability for
Lodges

YES
NO

972
335

74.4%
25.6%

CARRY-OVER

After delivering his Decisions and Recommendations, the Grand Master
resumed his station. At 5:00 p.m. the Grand Master called Grand Lodge from labor
to refreshment, to be called on again at 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday, October 13.

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TUESDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 13, 1998
Grand Lodge was called on promptly at 9:00 a.m. by Grand Master
Anthony P. Wordlow and the Grand Chaplain offered prayer. The Grand Master
announced that Grand Lodge had been raised this morning by Ricky L. Lawler,
Master, Riverside Lodge No. 635 and Raymond A Daley, Master, Table Mountain
Lodge No. I 24. The gavels used this morning were presented to the Grand Master
by the following lodges: El Cajon Valley No. 576; Acacia Grove No. 35 I; Warren
G. Harding No. 579; Temecula Catalina Island No. 524; Bay Cities No. 337;
Burbank No. 406; and El Bekal Shrine Temple.
The Grand Master then continued with legislation from the day before.
He proceeded to consider the Carry-Over Resolutions from I 997 and the I 998
Resolutions. The text of these items is to be found in Appendix I, together with
committee reports as given, and the vote on each. The following Summary of
Legislation is provided, together with the final vote on each one:

Resolution No. 97-14:
Establishes Rules for the
Hiram Award
Resolution No. 97-16:
Allows for Notification of
Applications for Degrees or
Affiliation
Through
a
Masonic
Secretaries
Association

37

YES
NO

940
404

69.9%
30.1%

PASSED

YES

1067
276

79.4%
20.6%

PASSED

NO

1998 Resolutions

The Grand Master then placed before Grand Lodge the I 998 Resolutions,
the complete text of which will be found in Appendix I. A summary of the I 998
Resolutions is herewith provided, together with the action of Grand Lodge on the
same:

Carry-Over Legislation
The text of the legislation will be found in Appendix I. A summary of the
Carry-Over Legislation is herewith provided, together with the action of Grand
Lodge on the same:
Unfinished Business - 1997
Grand Master Gresham's
Recommendation No. I:
Elimination of Candidates
Proficiencies

YES
NO

Resolution No. 97-05:
Substitutes "Holy Writings"
for "Holy Bible" in the
Ritual

YES
NO

Resolution No. 97-07:
Addresses Procedures When
Alternate Holy Writings Are
Used

YES
NO

Resolution No. 97-12:
Permits Tiler to Sit in the
Doorway

YES
NO

437
908

808
527

855
480

1072
265

32.5%
67.5%

60.5%
39.5%

64.0%
36.0%

80.2%
19.8%

FAILED

FAILED

FAILED

PASSED

Resolutions for Consideration - 1998
Resolution No. 98-01:
Expands Proficiencies in the
First Two Degrees to Include
Explanation of Aprtm and
Working Tools and Shortens
the Master Mason's
Proficiency

YES
NO

360
984

26.8%
73.2%

FAILED

YES

578
757

43.3%
56.7%

FAILED

NO

Resolution No. 98-03:
Returns the Proficiencies to
the Full Form Required
Before 1997

YES
NO

348
992

26.0%
74.0%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-04:
Limits Master Mason's
Proficiency to the
Obligation, Signs and Modes
of Recognition

YES
NO

775

58.6%
41.4%

CARRY-OVER

548

Resolution No. 98-02:
Allows Any Master Mason
to Deliver the Working Tool
Lectures

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolution No. 98-05 :
Eliminates Requirement of
the Master Mason's
Proficiency for the Master
and Wardens

YES
NO

567
771

42.4%
57.6%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-06:
Defines Which Past Masters
May Participate in the Past
Master's Collective Vote

YES
NO

835
484

63.3%
36.7%

CARRY-OVER

Resolution No. 98-07:
Establishes a Legislation
Information Committee

YES
NO

201
1110

15.3%
84.7%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-08:
Permits Stated Meetings in
the Entered Apprentice
Degree

YES
NO

684
642

51.6%
48.4%

CARRY-OVER

Resolution No. 98-09:
Permits Quarterly Stated
Meetings

YES
NO

510
799

39.0%
61.0%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-11 :
Permits Lodges to Establish
a Fund to Pay Application
Fees

YES
NO

104
415

20.00/o
80.0%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-12:
Repeals the Unwritten Law
Regarding Solicitation

YES
NO

553
767

41.9%
58.1%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-13 :
Requires Appointment of a
Committee to Allocation of
Resources Between Teaching
of Ritual and Other Aspects
of Masonic Education

YES
NO

252
1062

19.2%
80.8%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-14:
Establishes a Ladies Service
Pin Designed by the Grand
Lodge Committee on Awards
and Recognition

YES
NO

493
831

37.2%
62.8%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-15:
Establishes Ladies Service
Award Pin and Certificate
Selected From Designs
Presented at Grand Lodge

39

YES
NO

474
842

36.0%
64.0%

FAILED

YES
NO

581
732

44.2%
55.8%

FAILED

Resolution No. 98-16:
[Declared Out ofOrder]
Resolution No. 98-17:
Separates Lodge Dues
Between the Portion for the
Lodge and the Portion for the
Per Capita Assessment

At 12:00 Noon the Grand Master called Grand Lodge from labor to
refreshment, to be called on again at I: 15 p.m.

Resolution No. 98-10:
[Withdrawn]

40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TUESDAY AFTERNOON, OCTOBER 13, 1998

Election of Officers

At 1: 15 p.m. the Grand Master called the Grand Lodge from refreshment
to labor, following which the Grand Chaplain offered prayer. The Grand Master
then announced that the Grand Lodge had been raised for the afternoon session by
Thomas I. Jarrard, Master, San Diego Lodge No. 35 and V. Allen Winter, Jr.,
Master, Washington Lodge No. 20. The gavels used this afternoon were presented
to the Grand Master by the following: Silver Gate Lodge No. 296; Molino Lodge
No. 150; Olivet Lodge No. 205; Seafaring Lodge No. 604; San Diego Masonic
Officers' Association; Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodies; and Brother George
Kutuoinis. The Grand Master's gavel was also used.
The Grand Master called on the Grand Chaplain, Very Reverend V. Kent
Armstrong, for his message entitled, "These Are the Times That Try Men's Souls. "
The Grand Master continued with the consideration of the Resolutions
properly before Grand Lodge. When all matters had been considered, the Grand
Master thanked the brethren for their attention during the deliberations. He
announced that the results of the voting would be available after the Installation of
Officers on Wednesday, October 14, 1998. The results would be mailed to the
Lodge Secretaries after the close of the Annual Communication.
The Grand Master called on Brother Robert Lam, a member of the
Credentials Committee, for the final report of that Committee.

The Grand Master then asked the Grand Secretary to explain the balloting
procedure for the election of officers. No ballot would be necessary if the office
were not contested. If more than one nomination were received for an office blank
ballot cards in the previously distributed packets were to be used to write.in the
name of the choice of the voter.

Adoption of the 1998-1999 Grand Lodge Budget
The Grand Master called on the Deputy Grand Master, Right Worshipful
Melville H. Nahin, to present the 1998-1999 Grand Lodge Budget. He did so, and
a copy of the budget is found in Appendix B. The Chairman of the Finance
Committee, Very Worshipful Herbert P. Wilkins, Past Grand Treasurer, moved the
adoption of the 1998-1999 Budget, which was seconded by the Grand Lecturer,
and carried unanimously by voice vote.
Adoption of the 1999-2000 Grand Lodge Per Capita
The Grand Master then called on the Senior Grand Warden, Right
Worshipful Alvin J. Weis, to present the 1999-2000 Grand Lodge Per Capita. He
did so, and a copy of the proposal is found in Appendix C.
The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Very Worshipful Herbert P.
Wilkins, Past Grand Treasurer, moved the adoption of the 1999-2000 Grand Lodge
Per Capita in the amount of $18.14, which was seconded by the Grand Lecturer,
and carried by voice vote.

41

Election of the Grand Master
Deputy Grand Master Melville H. Nahin was nominated for Grand Master
by Most Worshipful Robert 0. West, Past Grand Master. No further nominations
appearing, it was moved, seconded and carried that the nominations be closed, and
that the Grand Secretary be instructed to cast a unanimous ballot for Right
Worshipful Melville H. Nahin to serve as Grand Master for the ensuing Grand
Lodge Year. Upon his acceptance, he was declared to be unanimously elected.
Election of Deputy Grand Master
Senior Grand Warden Alvin J. Weis was nominated for Deputy Grand
Master by Most Worshipful E. Arthur Haglund, Past Grand Master. No further
nominations appearing, it was moved, seconded and carried that the nominations
be closed, and that the Grand Secretary be instructed to cast a unanimous ballot for
Right Worshipful Alvin J. Weis to serve as Deputy Grand Master for the ensuing
Grand Lodge Year. Upon his acceptance, he was declared to be unanimously
elected.
Election of Senior Grand Warden
Junior Grand Warden David C. Decker was nominated for Senior Grand
Warden by Most Worshipful Allen B. Gresham, Past Grand Master. No further
nominations appearing, it was moved, seconded and carried that the nominations
be closed, and that the Grand Secretary be instructed to cast a unanimous ballot for
Right Worshipful David C. Decker to serve as Senior Grand Warden for the
ensuing Grand Lodge Year. Upon his acceptance, he was declared to be
unanimously elected.
Election of Junior Grand Warden
The Grand Master announced that pursuant to Section 510 of the
California Masonic Code, Worshipful Brother C. Ray Whitaker , a Past Master
Madera Lodge, No. 280, had been recommended for the office of Junior Grand

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Warden of the Grand Lodge of California for the ensuing Grand Lodge Yea~. ~e
Grand Master then read the biography previously circulated in accordance with this
section, while Brother Whitaker stood before Grand Lodge. He was then escorted
to the Grand Tiler' s Room, while other nominations were called for. None
appearing, the Grand Secretary was instructed to ca~t a unanimous ballot for
Worshipful Brother David C. Decker to serve as Jumor Grand Warden for the
ensuing Grand Lodge Year. Upon his return to the floor of the Grand Lodge, and
upon his acceptance, he was declared unanimously elected by the Grand Master.

Election of Grand Lecturer
Worshipful Edward P. Margherio, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division I,
nominated Very WorshipfulU lyssesG. Patropulos to serve as Grand Lecturer for
the ensuing Grand Lodge Year. No further nominations appearing, he moved that
the nominations be closed, and that the Grand Secretary be instructed to cast a
unanimous ballot for Ulysses G. Patropulos to serve as Grand Lecturer. The
motion was carried unanimously , and upon his acceptance, the Grand Master
declared him elected.

Election of Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary, and Grand Lecturer

Grand Lodge Called from Labor to Refreshment

The Grand Master then announced that pursuant to Section 510 of the
California Masonic Code, the Executive Committee had recommended that the
following be nominated to serve for the ensuing Grand Lodge Year:
Grand Treasurer, Thomas C. Holm
Grand Secretary, John L. Cooper III
Grand Lecturer, Ulysses G. Patropulos

Election of Grand Treasurer
Very WorshipfulHerbert P. Wilkins nominated Very Worshipful Thomas
C. Holm to serve as Grand Treasurer for the ensuring Grand Lodge Year. No
furthernomin ationsappear ing,he moved that the nominations be closed, and that
the Grand Secretary be instructed to cast a unanimous ballot for Thomas C. Holi:n
to serve as Grand Treasurer. The motion was carried unanimously, and upon hts
acceptance, the Grand Master declared him elected.

Election of Grand Secretary
Most Worshipful Stanley M. Cazneaux, Past Grand Master, nominated
Very Worshipful John L. Cooper III to serve as Grand Secretary for the ensuing
Grand Lodge Year. No further nominations appearing, he moved that the
nominations be closed, and that the Grand Treasurer be instructed to cas~ a
unanimous ballot for John L. Cooper III to serve as Grand Secretary. The motion
was carried unanimously , and upon his acceptance, the Grand Master declared him
elected.

43

The Grand Master then called Grand Lodge from labor to refreshment for
the purpose of installing the Grand Lodge Officers for the ensuing Grand Lodge
Year. The Installation was announced as being at 10:30 AM on Wednesday,
October 14, 1998.

44

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WEDNESDAY , OCTOBER 14, 1998

During the Installation ceremonies, Mrs. Gloria Cazneaux, favored those
assembled with two inspiring songs, "I Believe" and "You'll Never Walk Alone."

Installation of Grand Lodge Officers
At 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, October 14, 1998, the 1998-1999 Grand
Lodge Officers were installed by Most Worshipful Robert 0. West, Past Grand
Master. He was assisted by Most Worshipful R. Stephen Doan as Master of
Ceremonies, and Most Worshipful Jack R. Levitt as Installing Chaplain. The
following officers were installed:
Elected Officers
Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melville H. Nahin (520)
Deputy Grand Master ........... ........... ........ Alvin J. Weis (480)
Senior Grand Warden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David C. Decker (419)
Junior Grand Warden ........... ........... ...... C. Ray Whitaker (280)
Grand Treasurer ........... ........... ......... Thomas C. Holm (428)
Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John L. Cooper III (467)
Grand Lecturer ....... . .... . ........... .... Ulysses G. Patropulos (344)
Appointed Officers
Grand Chaplain ........... ........... .... Sean N. Foran (373,677,528)
A.G.L. Division I ........... ........... ..... Edward P. Margherio (347)
A.G.L. Division II ........... ........... ...... Robert S. Watanabe (58)
A.G.L. Division III ........... ........... ........ Harold A. Macy (769)
A.G.L. Division IV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Willis H. Rogers (300)
Grand Orator ........... ........... ........... .. Melvyn B. Stein (35)
Assistant Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joel H. Springer III (462)
Grand Marshal ........... ........... .... . ... A. Sherman Ostrom (677)
Grand Standard Bearer ........... ........ Urbano "Ben" Billena (839,283)
Grand Sword Bearer . . .......... . ......... Xavier A. "Sam" Pitassi (542)
Grand Bible Bearer ........... ........... ... David Francis Philips (272)
Senior Grand Deacon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . George A. Anderson (328)
Junior Grand Deacon ........... ........... ..... James D. Stephens (26)
Senior Grand Steward ........... ........... Franklin C. Sing (370,I,169)
Junior Grand Steward ........... ... Alexander T. Kirkpatrick (494,61,188)
Grand Pursuivant ........... ... .. ........... .. Edgar L. Friedman (520)
Grand Organist ........... ........... ........ Francis C. Atkinson (202)
Grand Tiler ........... ........... ........... . Howard J. Dumont (786)
Asst. Grand Organist ........... ........... . Joseph Von Geczy (42, 400)
Asst. Grand Tiler ........... ........... ........... Jack M. Rose (428)

45

Most Worshipful Melville H. Nahin, kneeling at the altar, took his
obligation as Grand Master. The Grand Master's remarks to the Grand Lodge
following his Installation were as follows:
It has been said that the more things change, the more they stay
the same. We near the 1501h Anniversary of Freemasonry in California
and over 275 years since modem Freemasonry was instituted in London,
England in 1717, and how so many millions of men have taken our
degrees and shared our camaraderie since that time. How different is the
world in which we now practice our ritual than the one which our brothers
lived at the beginning of the 20th century.
When I was young, and that seems so Jong ago, we were all
familiar with the radio program about a masked man and his Indian
companion who traveled the Southwest helping those in need. Even
without the strains of the William Tell Overture in the background and the
clouds of dust and the hearty "Hi ho Silver", you can all tell me, I am
sure, that I am describing the Lone Ranger, aided by his faithful
companion, Tonto.
Move ahead with me now about 50 years and picture a desolate,
desert landscaf>e and two metallic robots. They Jive in a world where
space travel is commonplace. The movie series Star Wars comes to mind,
doesn't it? Here a young man receives knowledge from an old knight and
goes out to do battle against the forces of evil, armed with a sword which
materializes in a ray of blue light. What do these two entertainments have
to do with Freemasonry in California? Well, it seems to me that that
entertainment is a reflection of what society dreams about. You all know
what happens at the end of the Lone Ranger episode and the end of Star
Wars - the men in the white hats win! Good triumphs over evil and we
all desire to be a part of that scenario. Stop and compare-th e costumes,
the landscape, the weapons, the mode of transportation - have all
changed but the basic plot is still the same.
As I made that comparison in my mind, I thought the characters
in both of those fantasies could surely have been Masons. Brotherly love,
relief and truth are no small part of each of these stories. It would seem
that the unchangeable things in which we believe are still a part of our
everyday world. Masonry tells its story through symbols, and perhaps
that masked man stands for Masonry in a previous time- hidden, at least

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in part, from public view. Do we want to continue to have people ask
"Who is that masked man?" Perhaps the time has come for us to be more
vocal about our Craft, so that men who knock at the door for admission
are more knowledgeableofwha t they can rightfully know before entering
a lodge. Perhaps we need to be more like the young man in "Star Wars"
who after learning what "secrets" there were to be imparted, gained
confidence, went out to use what he had learned for the bettennent of
mankind.

Rights sought to ensure these rights. Along with the social aspect came
political stability for their favored position.

As I thought of the ways that Masonic ideas could be imparted
to these two stories and the dichotomy of the static and changing parts of
our world and our fraternity, one question kept coming into my thinking:
"Who do men join Freemasonry?" Is the answer to this question a static,
unchanging one or has the answer changed from th_at of our earliest
fonnal beginnings?
I may have raised another question in your minds. "Does it
matter as long as I know why I asked for admission?" I think it does and
by the way, could we all answer that question?
Our fraternity is concerned about membership. Well, we cannot
and should not change our standards and our goals. Maybe we can make
the fraternity more viable if we stop to consider what induces men to join
us. Maybe we can get a message out to those about us - those in our
communities, our work places, in our churches and our synagogues, on
the golf course or in the supennarket, or our neighbors next door to us at
our homes. Anciently, when the Craft was operative, men joined for
protection and freedom - protection from local taxation and servitude by
feudal barons and for freedom to move unrestricted from place to place
to practice their skills - the erection of cathedrals and palaces and other
types of edifices. With these privileges they became a somewhat elite
socjety and as such found it necessary to limit their numbers to ensure
their place in society.
Sometime in the 14111 century- 500 years ago - a profound
change occurred. The word "accepted" appears in the writing about
Freemasonry. Speculative Masonry was born and with it different
reasons to join the Craft. Buy why would the operative craft accept
unskilled members? For three reasons: financial, social and political.
The Accepted Masons were usually the patrons of their lodges and they
contributed to financial stability of the craft. These men were also of the
so called "upper class" and their membership satisfied the working man's
desire to achieve equal status - long before Constitutions and Bills of

But why would non-operative men desire to join the Craft? One
of the prime factors apparently was knowledge or education. It was
believed that Masons possessed esoteric knowledge of the ancient
mysteries and in an age when education was closely related to the church,
it gave men the opportunity to gain knowledge and freely exchange it
among the brothers.
Another factor undoubtedly was the social aspect of Masonry.
Before the advent of mass media, much social diversion was obtained by
the pomp and ceremony of the Masonic activities. In fact, Masonic ritual
well perfonned developed an entertainment value.
A final reason perhaps, was that of personal gain. Some felt that
this gain would be derived from personal contact and material
improvement. Many felt the gain would be moral and spiritual selfimprovement.
In summary, some used the Craft for material or worldly gain but
most sought membership for reasons in concert with truly Masonic goals,
intellectual or moral enlightenment.
Let's superimpose those ancient reasons upon contemporary man
and detennine if they are still valid, if we can go out among our
communities· and prove to those out there that we are worthy of
membership, if we can imbue them with the sense of camaraderie that
millions before us have enjoyed, that millions today still do enjoy
throughout the world. Four million of them. Two million of whom are
in our own United States.
First, there is no body of esoteric know ledge that can be obtained
from Masonry. In fact, you have all kinds of publications found in many
libraries, even on television and the Internet, which yield up most, if not
all, of Masonry's secrets and rituals. The know ledge of today's Masonry
deals with moral and spiritual matters, not esoteric knowledge and this
knowledge can be found in places other than a lodge if one chooses.
The factor of socialization has been changed by the change in
social climate. Men can have a social or intellectual interchange in a
variety of settings, free of societal or political pressure. In fact, several
quasi fraternal organizations provide social meetings in a setting not in
keeping with Masonic rules. However, although slipping in numerical
strength, our organization, the organization we call the Family of

47

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Freemasonry, still provides the finest in moral and altruistic values and
leadership.
The advent of mass media, specifically television, has caused
many inroads upon the time allotted to fraternal organizations and ours is
no exception. We constantly seem to be in competition for the time of
men. Oh, there still exists men who join Freemasonry for personal gain
but this is totally contrary to Masonic regulation and his absence from our
ceremonies and gatherings usually renders him ineffectual in helping or
harming the fraternity.
So, why then, today, do men join our organization? What is it
we have that they would like, if only they knew about us? Certainly we
do continue to "make good men better". Certainly we do offer beautiful
rituals encompassing the loftiest ideals man knows, that of a belief in one
Supreme Being by whatever name He may be known, in whatever way
we may worship Him. And we are His children, all of us. The fraternity
ofFreemasonsrecogn izesthat regardless of race, color or creed, all men
are brothers. All men are created under the great blue sky and live in
Freemasonry as one great fraternal organization. Oh, we have
differences, indeed we have. We may differ as to social ideas, we may
differ as to personal or religious concepts but we don't discuss these
things within our lodges. Discussion of politics and religion has no place
within the confines of a Masonic hall. We put aside our differences so
that we may join together in Freemasonry.
When I visited our nation's capital some years ago I was told by
a very prominent Mason that after his term as President of the United
States, Most Worshipful Harry Truman, Past Grand Master of Masons in
Missouri, frequently went to Masonic lodge and Masonic activities with
his counterpart, Chief Justice Earl Warren, Past Grand Master of Masons
in California, together with the late Senator and Brother Barry Goldwater
33 °, Grand Cross. These men had little in common politically and yet
they enjoyed each other's company and participated in the Masonic
fraternal and charitable events which are a part of their and our daily
existence. They knew, as we know, that Masonry is good, that it breeds
the social relationship and friendship, honor and integrity upon which this
nation was founded. We have only to recognize that in the early days it
was Washington, Franklin, Lafayette, John Hancock, so many signers of
the Declaration oflndependence and of our Constitution, together with 14
subsequent presidents of the United States and other distinguished
governmental, industrial and commercial leaders who were and are
members of our Craft, who recognized the worthwhile nature of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49

Freemasonry. They saw in it, as we see in it, the camaraderie of men,
where men of all walks of life can meet together as brothers, where men
can share the activities of the lodge and bring their families into the lodge
knowing that there will be integrity and honesty and dignity and lots of
fun as members and associates of our great organization, of what we call
the Family of Freemasonry, for our ladies and our kids are a part of us, a
part of our great family. We do wonderful things, we think, for others,
contributing $2 million each and every day, almost 3/4 of a billion dollars
each year for our Masonic sponsored charities in which we, as the family
of Masons ourselves, receive but a little part. We enjoy ourselves
together, but recognize that as long as one man is in want, we are all in
want; as long as one man is not free, we cannot be free.
I know I can talk forever, I suppose, and those of you who know
me know well I can do so because this is something I feel very strongly
about, the need to let others, you who are not Masons, you who have not
been in lodge very often, to let you know that we are doing something.
We are doing something good for you, for us, in bringing to the world
what we have and offering to share it with you because it is good as the
Great Father of us all has indicated, that which we have we should share
with our fellow men, and we have an awful lot to share.
So as we continue to this day into the future, we think ahead and
we plan aheap with our five-year plan, our Town Halls and our great
Professional Public Relations Program. We plan ahead knowing full well
that the future is uncertain, and indeed it is.
We can think of the past. We can plan for the future, but my
dear friends, "The Best of Times is Now- What a Wonderful World"
it is in which we live, today. Look about you, indeed we do. And as we
think about the future, may we use and live this day, this great and
wonderful time that God has given us. May we use the experience of the
past to plan and build for the future and as we do - may the Force be
with us.
Following the newly-installed Grand Master's remarks, the Most
Worshipful Anthony P. Wordlow, Past Grand Master, was presented with his Past
Grand Master's Apron, Jewel, and Wallet Card. Mrs. Marilyn Wordlow was
presented with a bouquet ofroses and gift in appreciation for her time and support
of her husband and the Grand Lodge during his year as Grand Master.
The Most Worshipful Mozafar Jandaghi, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge oflran (In Exile) in appreciation of the fraternal relations between the two

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodges, presented a beautiful clock, handmade in Iran, to the Grand Master.
He announced that the Grand Lodge of Iran (In Exile) had honored the Grand
Master by naming him an Honorary Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Iran (In
Exile), and had also honored the Grand Secretary as a Honorary Grand Secretary
of the Grand Lodge oflran (In Exile).
The Installation ceremonies were concluded with Mrs. Gloria Cazneaux
singing "Climb Every Mountain," after which the Chaplain gave the Benediction
and the Grand Lodge Officers retired from the Auditorium to attend the Gala
Reception in the lobby of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Closing of Grand Lodge
At I :45 pm, Grand Master Melville H. Nahin called Grand Lodge from
refreshment to labor.

Grand Lodge was then closed in ample form .

APPENDIX A

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
Anthony P. Wordlow, Grand Master

Thirty nine years and twenty-seven days ago, a young man of two score
and three, was raised to the sublime degree of Master Mason in Tehama Lodge No.
3 in Sacramento.
The members of Tehama Lodge No. 3, true Masons all, took that young
man, me, nurtured me and provided me with Masonic mentors and heroes.
They gave me unlimited opportunities to serve, to learn about Masonry;
they allowed me to grow and expand my horizons even beyond my dreams.
They gave me a sense of purpose and direction, yet they encouraged me
to try my wings, to experiment, to be innovative. They gave me a sense of family.
They accepted me as I was. They have supported me without question, every step
of the way.
The Masons of Tehama Lodge No. 3, do what Masons do best ... they
care.
The Masons of Tehama No. 3, each of whom has signed his name in our
historic Miner's bible, those who have gone before me ... those who now serve
Masonry with me ... even those yet unborn, have made my Masonic odyssey
possible and shared it's promise with me.
To the Masons of Tehama Lodge No. 3, I am eternally grateful for
making Masonry come alive for me and to become my passion and joy in life.
Somehow it seems fitting that this grand old lodge, Tehama No. 3, one of
the five lodges to found the Grand Lodge of California, the lodge who gave the
second Grand Master, Most Worshipful John Tutt, now gives the second to last
Grand Master in this century.
It is written, to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose
under the Heaven.

The season of this Grand Lodge year is about to close. It is time for me
to account to you.
With humility, honor, pleasure, and deep fraternal love, I wish to convey
to you, my thoughts, reflections and impressions of the state of our kind and gentle
Craft and my concerns, hopes and prayers for the future of Masonry as we are
about to cross the threshold of time and space to the next century and the new
millennium.

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Nob Hill Masonic Center - California Masonic Memorial Temple :
I hope you've noticed the many improvements in our beautiful building
including new carpeting. Construction work to comply with the requirements of
the American Disabilities Act is nearly complete.
Be sure to visit the Library-Museum; on exhibit are some items of
historical Masonic interest from a few of our older lodges. Some of the many
lovely gifts presented to Marilyn and me are also on display there.
This is our facility, our building, a matter of pride.
The rental of the parking lot, the auditorium and other rooms is a good
source of income to help maintain and operate the California Masonic Memorial
Temple.
I invite you to study the unique endomosaic window in the lobby
depicting Masonic symbols and scenes. It is a magnificent work of art. This
window has been in place since the building was built; you will notice early signs
of deterioration.
Preservation or restoration work needs to be done soon. I solicit your
consideration of a tax deductible donation towards repair of the majestic window
of our California Masonic Memorial Temple.
A California Masonic treasure.
Masons more than four decades ago cared enough to leave us this fine
structure. Can we do less for those Masons yet unborn?
Do we care enough? The answer must be yes.
Masonic Homes:
The Centennial Rededication on Saturday at Union City was a great day!
One hundred years, a century of caring, made possible by California
Masons, one by one, providing the finances to make possible our two beautiful
campuses, by caring board and staff members, by the residents themselves,
individual by individual, who have truly made these two facilities, at Union City
and Covina, a home; one hundred years, one day at a time.
We now accept non-Masonic children at our Covina Home for Children.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

55

The youngster's quick response was, "Oh, I just love it." There was a
broad smile on her face as she skipped away.
The next morning as the teacher made her way to class, she found the little
girl waiting for her. She had written a poem; a very eloquent and moving poem,
sad yet profoundly joyful.
Her poem told about the incrediblydifficultcircumstancesfrom which she
came. Then she told about the Masonic Home and how happy she was, how much
she appreciated the simple things we all take for granted, and how much she liked
to go to school everyday.
The teacher accepted the poem written for her. She was so moved when
she read it, she was compelled to share it with the Masonic Student Assistance
Program class.
Each of those sixty teachers in the class was emotionally moved as well.
They left our Home for Children at Covina with a new insight of
Masonry. They have seen, heard, and felt the depth of concern for a child by the
Masons.
They learned to help kids in their school from the Masonic Assistance
Program, but they gained much more by that chance encounter of one teacher with
one child. A young girl, to whom we have offered the gift of a loving, kind, safe,
clean home and the chance to become a productive, useful and contented citizen.
My brothers, you can be justifiably proud of our two splendid Masonic
Homes. Our Homes exist because you care.
California Masonic Foundation:
The charitable arm of our fraternity, because of your generous tax
deductible donations, and the kind generosity of several substantial benefactors,
has performed exciting miracles this year!
The Masonic Student Assistance Program is well into it's fourth year.
Hundreds of teachers, administrators, school nurses, and other school personnel
have attended our training sessions which·give them the tools to legally intervene
in the lives of children who may be at risk.
At risk of heading down the wrong path of life in life.

The Masons of California have offered these kids a chance at life. A
chance to grow up in a safe, clean, happy environment. A chance to become a
productive citizen.

You were privileged to hear from Brother Thom Stecher, one of our
outstanding instructors, yesterday. He so ably described the program for you.

At a recent Masonic Student Assistance program held at our Covina
campus, one of the teachers asked a young girl resident how she liked living there.

We have been invited by various schools throughout the state to perform
the ancient Masonic Cornerstone Ceremony. At the conclusion of the ceremony,
it has been my pleasant duty to give the principal a check from the California

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Foundation for five hundred dollars for the school to be spent at the
school's discretion to provide something the students need or to benefitthe school.

The California Masonic Code states that the Grand Lodge of California
WILL have a booth at the State Fair. We have not complied with this C.M.C.
regulation for years.

For the past four years, the California Masonic Foundation has given one
thousand dollars each to the five California Teachers of the Year.
This money is to be used to enhance their teaching, for their students, or
something for their classroom. You were privileged to hear from Linwood
Thompson yesterday, one of the 1998 Teachers of the Year.
The California Masonic Foundation administers the funds that provide
scholarships for graduating senior high school students. Some of these
scholarships are renewable for up to four years; several are worth a total of
$40,000.
We help bright students to be educated, one by one, because we care. We
care enough to help educate children, care enough to look to our future.
Through your generous donations, and a few large benefactors, money is
available for these scholarships.
A new program exploded on the scene just last May. The Masonic Kids
ID program.
Worshipful Allen Winter, Master of Washington Lodge No. 20, suggested
this means of providing a service to children and the communities in which we
live.
The equipmentconsistsofa computerwith a digital camera to photograph
the child, an apparatus to take their thumb prints, and a printer to print this
infonnation on a plain sheet of paper which is given to the parent or guardian.
In the event the child is lost, kidnapped, or worse, this infonnation is a
valuable tool for law enforcement to help a child.
On the back of the sheet is common sense advice for the parent or
guardian in case the child is missing. Across the bottom of the sheet is an
announcement that this service is provided by the Masons of California.
The California Masonic Foundation purchased the initial equipment; it
was used at the Sacramento County Fair for the first time.
It's a hit .. . with kids, parents, guardians, and our members who used it
at fair booths and other venues.
Various brochures about Masonry are given to adults who visit the booth.
Friend to Friend brochures, What is a Mason? brochures, some lodges have even
produced their own material. It is a great way to provide a service, to interact with
the community, to help kids, and to get out the message of Masonry.

57

Well, I'm proud to announce that we HAD a booth this year. Lodges
from the Sacramento area manned the Masonic Child ID booth the entire run of the
State Fair.
My shift happened to coincide with Law Enforcement Day at the State
Fair. Peace Officers from throughoutthe state stopped by our booth commending
us for our service.
The California Masonic Foundation has purchased two units; a third unit
was purchased by a very generous lodge. These three units are now available, by
advance reservation, for use by lodges at fairs, festivals, and other places where
large numbers of people are present.
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286 has held an annual open house for three years
at their lodge, providing child ID service, a unique day for the community and the
Masonic Family of the Central Coast.
Shrine clowns entertain, the lodge, Scottish Rite Club, Youth Groups, and
Eastern Star members join forces for this event. They have a good time working
together. Local police, sheriff, and fire personnel also participate.
The press coverage is excellent.
Santa Rosa Scottish Rite held a similar Child ID event recently, with an
open house in their language disorders clinic. I was pleased to accept a certificate
of commendation and appreciation from the Mayor of Santa Rosa to the Scottish
Rite Bodies.
It is difficult to communicate the excitement, enthusiasm, appreciation,
and benefits derived from the Child ID program. Be sure to check it out on "G"
floor.

At the State Fair Booth, I spoke with many people about Masonry. A
young man of about thirty said, "I know about the Masons, I was in DeMolay."
He was impressed with our Masonic Child ID booth and commented that
he had thought about joining the Masons, but after seeing our Child ID Booth with
Masons doing something, he was going to ask for a petition.

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership:
Friend-to-Friend has come to California.
This program has proven very successful in some of our sister
jurisdictions. It provides us with a graceful way to bring up the subject of
Masonry. The video and brochures are excellent.
Each lodge received the Friend-to-Friend materials early this year.
Preliminary reports indicate eighty-six candidates are directly attributed to the
Friend to Friend program.
Society once again seems to be seeking morality, integrity, responsibility,
concern for others, honesty, ethics, fairness, justice, respect for individual
freedoms. We hear about returning to family values.
Well, guess what? Masonry offers all that and more!
Men ... men of diversity, young men, educated men, family men, decent
men are studying about Masonry and seeking us out.
The Northern California Jurisdiction of DeMolay posted a membership
gain last year for the first time in thirty years. The Southern California Jurisdiction
has also seen a growth in members.
With Friend-to-Friend, more senior DeMolays, and the natural renewed
interest in Masonry coming at the same time our lodges must be ready to receive
new members.
But, are the lodges of California ready?
Ready to accept the new candidates who are knocking at our door? Are
we ready and willing to extend our hand in true Masonic fellowship?
Will we, our lodges, do the right thing?
Will we do what Masons do best ... care?
Care enough to properly investigate these men who will petition to
become a Mason? Care enough to provide comprehensive, continuing Masonic
education for their members?
Care enough to make Masons, not just members?
Care enough to provide Masonic heroes and mentors?
Care enough to encourage the new Mason and his family to become
involved, to allow him to grow in Masonry, to allow him to serve?
Care enough to provide excellent, relevant programs to include the
family?
Care enough to send our officers to the Officers' Management Seminars
and the Wardens' Retreats given by Grand Lodge?

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

59

Care enough to participate in service projects in our communities?
Care enough to respect, tolerate and celebrate diversity among our
members?
Care enough to appreciate traditions and the past, yet embrace new ideas
and the future?
Care enough to break the cycle of stagnation?
Care enough to march shoulder to shoulder, Freemasons united to cross
the intersection of time and space into the next century and the new millennium?
Care enough to do the right things?
The resounding answer must be affirmative.
Yes, not just in our Blue Lodges, but every organization within the
Masonic Family for we are a mirror to each other, we are all interdependent.
My Brothers, the alarm has sounded at our lodge room door and we are
finally answering it.
Our luxury of time has expired. Complacency, apathy, and benign neglect
must end. We must prepare our lodges to accept and welcome new Masons, but
the greater challenge is to recapture the excitement and renew the spirit of interest
of our current members.
In the year ending June 301\ 3842 California Masons died.
During the same twelve month period, 1381 Masons requested a dimit or
a withdrawal; I 027 were suspended for non-payment of dues.
We cannot change the fact of death. I pray those Masons who took a
dimit will affiliate in another jurisdiction or return.
But, my Brother, we must do something to stop suspensions.
We, our lodges, have failed those members who simply stopped paying
their dues.
Have we allowed Masonry to be so boring and dull that they no longer
care to be associated with us? Have we ignored them? Is their non-payment of
dues a cry for attention; a plea to make our lodges a haven for them?
Have we only sent them the required dues notices and letters?
Did we bother to send a caring member to ask why they have taken this
drastic step?
I am sorry to admit I think we have failed too many members.
We can, we should, we must and we will do better.

61

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This year, 1998, over six thousand members are eligible for their fiftyyear Golden Veterans Award. I have given seventeen seventy-ti ve year pins, with
one still pending.
Nature will take her course. We cannot reverse the aging process, nor can
we escape the grim reaper. But we can care enough to serve ALL Masons. I
challenge you to begin now.

Lodges are providing mentors, one on one tutors to kids, and space in our
Masonic Centers for classes during school emergencies.
We sponsor, or provide, programs of all sorts for the schools, monetary
to
awards kids, with perfect attendance, spelling bees, essay contests, scholastic
decathlons, R.O.T.C. drill competitions, and more.
A lodge here in San Francisco helped a local school present an
outstanding pageant in celebration of the sesquicentennialof the first public school
in California founded in April of 1848.
Masons sponsor art contests, all types of scholastic competitions, provide
funds for refreshments at schools; one lodge honors the classroom with the most
parents visiting on open house night. One lodge purchases books for the libraries
of schools in their district presenting them at the city-wide young authors awards
night.
A San Diego lodge purchases school supplies and the essential backpack
for underprivileged kids attending a school just across the street from the lodge.

60

Our membership numbers will go down for a few more years. But when
the full impact of Friend-to-Friend,more senior DeMolays, the modification of the
proficiency requirement, each lodge being so vital that they retain their members
and the natural interest in Masonry is felt, our membership curve will tum upward.
Of that, I have no doubt.
From Master after Master this year, I have been hearing about increased
degree work; some lodges are so busy they are having trouble scheduling degrees.
What a grrrreat problem to have!
I requested an informal survey from each Master about their degree work
this year. Ninety-eight surveys were returned. These lodges report that a total of
four hundred sixty seven third degrees have, or are expected to be, conferred before
the end of this year.
That number represents about twenty-five percent of our lodges. Simple
arithmetic tells us we might expect nearly 2000 third degrees in 1998.
A considerable increase ... over the last few years.
In my opinion, we are turning the comer with regard to membership. In
fact, I will be bold enough to state we are experiencing a Masonic renaissance in
California!
A distressingnote from this survey, one Master reports two of his junior
officers have resigned because of too much degree work. I hope their replacement
officers will be dedicated, committed, and devoted to Masonry and doing the work
of the lodge.
Public Schools:
I alluded to our commitment to Public Schools with reference to the
Masonic Student Assistance Program and the Teacher of the Year and Cornerstone
Ceremonies earlier.
Another informal survey tells the story of the deep commitment between
the Masons of California and the Public Schools. There are strong partnerships
between some lodges and schools that are simply fantastic and heartwarming.

Scholarships and cash prizes abound, students throughout this state benefit
from the generosity of Masons. Of the ninety-eight responses, a quick calculation
from those lodges who included their monetary commitment to schools, amounted
to nearly $78,000. Outstanding!
Imaginative, innovative, and unique programs are carried on by many of
our lodges.
Just last week, we witnessed the mutual love and respect, sense of wellbeing, and the success and achievement of kids. I was be proud to be a Mason
hearing the glowing comments from school personnel in San Luis Obispo and
Oceanside; the Masons in those two cities bring credit upon all of us. They did
what we do best ... care.
Sadly, there is a flip side. Some lodges do nothing.
Last winter I received a call of distress from a principal of an elementary
school in Sacramento County. She had transferred from another school that had
a good relationship with a Masonic Lodge. She wanted to work with a Masonic
Lodge at her new school. She contacted a local Mason who referred her to the
lodge nearest the school. Someone from that lodge told her they did not intend to
do anything for Public Schools Month. The Mason she spoke with didn't even
give her the courtesy of suggesting another lodge that might work with her.
By the time she called me, she was dismayed. I called the Master of
another lodge; even though his lodge had an ongoing relationship with a school.
Without hesitation, he told me they would be glad to work with two schools. They
put together an essay contest complete with monetary prizes. Masons attended the

62

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

assembly when the students read their essays, and the winners proudly collected
their prizes.
Thanks to the Master who helped, the kids in that school know that
Masons care about them and their future. The principal once again has faith in us.
A binder of the survey sheets is available at a counter on "G" Floor,
please look through it. You will be inspired and amazed at the variety of ideas.
Two lodges even sent a collection of thank you letters from students .. . grrreat
reading!
Lodge Programs:
There have been many inventive, intriguing, innovative, exciting and
imaginative programs presented by lodges this year. From outstanding speakers
at meetings to celebrating a certain country each month with ethnic foods and a
report of Masonry in that country. Entertaining and informative.
Several lodges report visits with a sister lodge, exchanging ideas. Some
lodges have offered group trips, cruises, mystery trips; some have had community
projects involving many members and their families. One had a murder mystery
dinner with the officers putting on the show.
One lodge held an unveiling of a long-lost portrait of Past Grand Master
Earl Warren at their Constitution Observance night. It was an evening of living
history.
A lodge here in this city held a dinner dance in the cat house at the zoo.
The tigers, lions, panthers and leopards enjoyed the event too! I understand one
tiger moved his tail to the macarena. I'm sorry I missed that evening!
At various receptions and events honoring this Grand Master, the
decorations and entertainment have been special. Magic moments in Santa
Barbara, celebrity treatment at Hollywood, tartans and tigers, my own fan club and
a great tiger in San Diego, my own lodge homecoming, and so many others are
now cherished memories.
I wish I could report to you on each visit, they were all just grrreat.
My single regret this year is that I could not visit each lodge or Masonic
District.
We have been treated so well ... with many courtesies extended to us.
We are overwhelmed and very grateful.
Again, I requested a sample survey. The results are impressive. This
binder is available to review on "G" Floor. I suggest the junior officers check it
out and get some ideas for their lodges.

63

The Futµre of our Craft:
I am optimistic.
I feel we are turning the corner and entering upon a new Masonic
Renaissance, but I know that each Mason must give his unconditional love,
dedication, devotion, concern and passion to our kind and gentle Craft.
Yes, I am optimistic, but not naive. Masonry has had attackers since her
beginning.
Just a few years ago, Freemasons United finally answered those detractors
from the some factions within the religious community. Outside attacks will
continue. I pray we answer them.
Sadly, we have attackers from inside our lodges; these are the most
distressing.
We have had fifteen consolidations this year. Some of the consolidated
lodges will emerge stronger, more vibrant and will succeed. Some are doomed to
fail.
A few of our lodges are in dire circumstances.
Some lodges have a group of Past Masters, with an occasiona~ Secretary
in the mix, whose favorite mantra is, NO ... we have never done it that way
before.
They interfere ... even block the Master and officers at every turn. They
have a stranglehold and will not let go. They make it difficult for the officers to
even function, let alone make progress and do the right thing.
I was told by a Warden at one of the Wardens' Retreats that his Secretary
paid for the Retreat upon the vote of the lodge, but threatened him, "DO NOT
BRING BACK anything you learn to this lodge."
That is outrageous, yet it happens.
A few Secretaries grudgingly finally give the members a dues receipt
stating they are too busy, or the lodge doesn't pay enough. These lodges d~ not
attract new members, in most cases they do not participate in any community or
public school activities. Most do not send their officers to the Grand Lodge
Officers' Seminars or the Wardens Retreats.
Their lodge programs are boring, at best, or even non-existent. These
lodges complain they cannot get anyone to serve as an officer.
I wonder why?
Some of these lodges will fail, probably not ~ realizing they caused
their own demise.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN1A

Some lodges are not good stewards of their finances, sometimes even
risking their buildings by not providing reserve funds for maintenance or repair.

Masonry in the future will evolve in ways we can't even imagine, but her
principal tenets will never ever change. May it be said in the future, just as now,
there goes a good man, for he is a Mason.

Unfortunately, there are brothers among us who have forgotten our basic
tenets of brotherly love, relief, and truth. Most of our problems are caused by
individual Masons or a small group stirring up trouble.
When a lodge is tom apart by its own members, it can take years to heal
the wounds and sometimes never. It can destroy a lodge. If it involves loss of
money, whether by outright theft or carelessness, it is most distressing.
We all know of instances where we have lost good Masons because they
will no longer put up with difficult people in their lodge. They simply walk away.
I would like to quote Prince Hall Past Grand Master, Most Worshipful Joe
Nicholas. He said at their recent Annual Communication, "All personal feelings
and problems should be left outside the lodge room. If a Brother cannot do this,
he should not be in Masonry."
The only solution to these problems is diligence on the part of each of us.

If we recognize a problem starting, we owe it to our lodge and the
brothers involved, to whisper counsel in the erring brother's ear and pray that he
listens. Grand Lodge does not want to become involved in any local lodge
problem, but when it is not solved, that is the inevitable. Some lodge officers and
some Inspectors have not paid attention causing larger problems.
It seems crystal clear. Some of our members should once again kneel at
the altar of Masonry and renew their obligation. Have they forgotten brotherly
love, relief, and truth? At times, it seems that way.

I would encourage each of us to step back, take a look at our own
behavior and take action to improve ourselves. After all, we sought to join
Masonry to become better than ourselves.

65

I would further caution our great fraternity, to not think so cheaply.
People seem to value more something they have to sacrifice to achieve.
In 1912, Frank Land's grandmother gave him fifty dollars to petition a
Masonic lodge. The other day at a seventy-five year pin presentation, the recipient
stated the fee was fifty dollars in 1923 when he applied. In both cases, the fee
amounted to about a month's salary.
At Christmas in 1958, my father-in-law gave me a check made out to
Tehama Lodge No. 3, suggesting I might wish to use the check to petition the
lodge.
That check was for one hundred and twenty five dollars, which was about
two weeks wages at that time.
Today, the application fee in my lodge is one hundred and thirty-nine
dollars. Hardly a financial sacrifice for most men.
Something is wrong with this picture. Even our dues structure in some
lodges is not in keeping with expenses. Of course, some lodges are blessed with
substantial funds, but others are not.

If we don' t address this issue in our lodges in the near future, we will
suffer the consequences.
1998 Masters and Grand Lod~e Officers:
From a prejudiced point of view, MOST of the 1998 Masters are gmeat!
Will those Masters serving this year please rise?

The overwhelming majority of Masons in our grand jurisdiction, live as

My brothers, I present to you the leaders of CalifomiaFreemasonrytoday.
Thank you for your service.

The preceding is addressed to those who may have forgotten, to those who
think they are above Masonry's ideals and rules, to those arrogant trouble makers
that create our problems. I hope they heed my remarks.

May history write in her pages that together we have served Masonry we! I
and left an indelible impression. Most of these masters have provided their lodge
with good programs, have worked well with their officers, have communicated
with their members, have done the right thing and have included the family. They
care.

Masons.

Those lodges whose members care enough to do the right thing will grow
and prosper.
They will boldly march shoulder to shoulder, one by one, Freemasons
United into the future ... stronger, more dedicated, and more committed than ever
before.

I am privileged to serve with them; the class of 1998. We have shared our
lives with our common bond of Masonry; shared the joy of living and serving.

66

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I 998 Grand Lodge Officers:
Every Grand Master who has preceded me considers his Grand Family as
the best ever. The difference with me is the fact that I KNOW it is the best ever.
To each of you, thank you for your service.
The Grand Lodge office staff has been a joy, we thank them for their
assistance and dedication.
A couple of weeks following my Third Degree in 1959, our Church group
went to Columbia State Park in the gold country to help repair a church that had
suffered a fire. We stayed with local church members.
Our host was an active Mason who had served as Master of his lodge and
was very involved in York Rite. We discussed Masonry as we worked, and in
front of his cozy fireplace in the evenings.
Everyone got together on the last day of our project for breakfast at the
church.
My host had told the minister, a Mason, that I had just been raised. They
managed to seat me between them at breakfast.
The minister casually remarked ..... "I hear you have traveled East".
Innocently, I replied, "Oh no, we went north to British Columbia on our
vacation."
They laughed so hard they almost fell off their chairs. I've never made
that mistake again.
But to those Masons I would reply now, "Yes, my brothers, I've traveled
Lodge is Tehama No. 3." But I would add that as the 1998 Grand Master,
my
East;
"I have literally traveled some ... east ... west ... north ... south, and loved
every step of the way."
There have been times our schedule was hectic, rushing from place to
place. But that's part of the job description of Grand Master, and it's the part we
love, being with the members as often as possible.
There are as many descriptions of Masonry as there are members. For
me, the top of the list is being with good people; for Masonry is people to me.
You, my Brothers, and members of your family.
I have tried to accommodate every lodge, every Master, every district,
every concordant and appendant body that has issued an invitation to me this year.
Regrettably, there are not enough days in the year.
Every function has been memorable, full of vitality and excitement.

67

In addition I have participated in many Third Degrees this year, including
several very special outdoor degrees. It's always a pleasure to welcome a new
candidate.
The Third Degree of my son, Chris, in Western Star Lodge No. 2 in Apri 1
of this year, shall ever be close to my heart. A father's dream come true.
Rose Parade Float:
I hope you saw our float at the Rose Parade this year. Thanks to t~e
continued hard work of that committee, it was once again a beauty; the old lady m
the shoe, or in our case a roller blade. We received a lot of media coverage.
Our lady in the shoe was Dollie Burke, a resident at Covina. Well, today
is her one hundredth birthday!
My heart is full as I address you this morning. It does not seem possible
it was a year ago that I knelt at that altar to take my vows as Grand Master; resting
my hands once again on Tehama's historic Miner's Bible.
But the time has come when I will tum the mantle of leadership to Mel
Nahin, I am confident that he will serve you well.
Is Masonry ready for the challenges of the future, have the leaders of this
year been good stewards of our Craft?
The answer is Yes!
In conclu~ion, I would like to thank my son and Masonic Brother, Chris,
and his lady Teri, for their support and taking over for us at our shop.
He made it possible for me and Marilyn to travel throughout the state
representing you.
My wife, Marilyn, made this year special with her untiring support_, ~er
enthusiasm, and love for our fraternity. She was always ready to go, always giving
more than any husband could ask. I thank her from the bottom of my heart.
As this year comes to an end, as all terms of office do, we are sad because
it was much too short; yet happy in the knowledge that we have done the best we
could.
I feel very good about this year.
I thank you, the Masons of California, and the members of Grand Lodge,
for the honor, privilege, pleasure, and thrill of serving you.
Thank you.

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

50-YE AR GOLD EN VETER ANS AWAR DS
PRESE NTED BY THE GRAN D MAST ER

11/07/97

02/09/98

03/17/98

04/18/98

05/07/98

05/19/98

05/23/98

05/26/98

09/23/98

50-year pin presentation to Robert Haas. W .M., a mem~er of La
Jolla Lodge No. 518, at the 75th Anniversary Celebration of La
Jolla Lodge No. 518, at the Lodge in La Jolla.
50-year pin presentation to Tisdale P. DeCo~. P:M., a member
of Tehama Lodge No. 3, at a Dinner Reception m honor,of~e
recipient at the Lodge in Sacramento. Master Don W. D Avis.
50-year pin presentation to Alfred E. Allen, a m~mber of
Bicentennial Daylight Lodge No. 830, at a Stated Meetmg of the
Lodge in Sacramento. Master Howard C. Fish.
50-year pin presentation to Raymond Johnson. a ~ember of
Antioch-BrentwoodLodge No. 175, at the 70th Anniversary of
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668, Banning. Master Robert
Kinnevey.
50-year pin presentation to Weston A. Jacobs, a mem~er ~f
Athens-Silveyville Lodge No. 201, at a Dinner Reception m
honor of the recipient at the Lodge in Davis. Master Ralph M.
Gerolamy.
50-yea rpin presentation to Harry Hoigaard. P.M., a member of
Bicentennial Daylight Lodge No. 830, at a Stated Meeting of the
Lodge in Sacramento. Master Howard C. Fish.
50-yearpin presentations to Jack and Charles Myrick, members
of Alameda Lodge No. 167, at a Reception in their honor at a
mobile home community club-house in Fremont. Master James
D. Westfall.
50-year pin presentations to Leo and Kenn~th <?uinn: members
of Clay Lodge No. IO I, at a Dinner Reception m their honor at
the Lodge in Dutch Flat. Master Ronald E. Murray.
50-year pin presentation to Walker S. Kiss~lbur~h ..P.M .. a
member of Wisdom Lodge No. 202, at Old Timers Night and
Reception at the Lodge in Pasadena. Master Levon A.
Keshishian.

69

SEVEN TY FIVE YEAR DIAMO ND JUBIL EE
PIN PRESE NTATIO NS

09/04/97

11103/97

75-year pin presentation to Milton Faig, a member of
Washington Lodge No. 20, at a Stated Meeting in Sacramento.
Anthony P. "Tony" Wordlow, then Deputy Grand Master made
the presentation. Master Jack Ansell.
75 year pin presentation to Ernest E. Fix. a member ofLass enJanesville Lodge No. 149, at a Dinner Reception in honor of the
recipient at the Lodge in Susan-ville. Master Richard L.
Metzger.

11/14/97

75-yearpin presentation to Arthur J. Eldridge. P.M .. a member
of Willow Glen Lodge No. 676, at a Dinner Reception in honor
of the recipient at the Lodge in San Jose. Master Donald J.
Locke.

03/19/98

75-year pin presentation to Harold Taylor, a member of
Redlands Lodge No. 300 and Coachella Lodge No. 476, at a
Reception at a nursing home in Indio. Master Brent M. Harp
(300) and Master Douglas J. MacDonald (476).
75-year pin presentation to Hany G. Anderson, a member San
•Joaquin Lodge No. 19, at the Grand Master's Reception Brunch
hosted by San Joaquin Lodge No. 19 and Morning Star Lodge
No. 68 in Stockton. Master Lee L. Stafko.
75-yearpin presentation to George V. Claytor. P.M .. a member
of Temescal-Palms Lodge No. 314, at a Reception in honor of
the recipienthosted by Orange Grove Lodge No. 293, in Orange.
Master James R. Hannum, Jr. (314) and Master Ellis Adams
(293).

03/29/98

05/15/98

05/18/98

05/30/98

06/08/98

75-year pin presentation to Thomas A. Dejse. a member of
Capital City Lodge No. 499, at the recipient's home in
Sacramento. Master L. Dale Hankins.
75-year pin presentation to Orlof E. Rush, a member of
Corinthian-Hammonton Lodge No. 9, at a Reception in a
nursing home in Stockton. Master Ernest N. Olson.
75-year pin presentation to lrvjng F. Heitmann, a member of
California-OccidentalLodge No. 1, at a Luncheon Reception in
honor of the recipientat a restaurant in Fresno. Master Richard
J. Modolo.

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SEVENTY FIVE YEAR DIAMOND JUBILEE

CEREMONIAL GRAND LODGE OPENINGS

71

PIN PRESENTATIONS - CONTINUED
07/06/98

07/09/98

07/14/98

07/27/98

07/30/98

08/29/98

09/24/98

09/27/98

75-yearpin presentation to Omer L. King. a member of Eureka
Lodge No. 16, at a Dinner Reception in honor of the recipient at
the Lodge in Auburn. Master Stephen J. McCrea.
75-year pin presentation to Robert K. Haskell. a member of
Santa Rosa-Luther Burbank Lodge No. 57, at a Dinner
Reception in honor of the recipient at the Lodge in Santa Rosa.
Master Richard D. Chapman.
75-year pin presentation to Norman P. Van Valkingberg. a
member of Wisdom No. 202, at the recipient's home in
Pasadena. Master Levon A. Keshishian.
75-year pin presentation to Guilio E. Sieyert, a member of
Alhambra Lodge No. 322, at the recipient's home in San Diego.
Master Thomas R. Orrell.
75-year pin presentation to Albert R. Bercovich, a member of
Crow Canyon Lodge No. 551, at a Dinner Reception in honor of
the recipient at the Lodge in Castro Valley. Master Donald
Clendenen, Jr.
75-year pin presentation to Daniel D. Rodgers. a member of
Oriental Lodge No. 144, at a Luncheon Reception in honor of
the recipient at a restaurant in Fresno. Presentation made by
Sam Pavlovich, P.G.M. Master Neil A. Carlson.
75-year pin presentation to Earl E. Dixon. P.M .. a member of
South Pasadena Lodge No. 290 and International City Lodge
No. 389, at a Dinner Reception in honor of the recipient at
International City Lodge in Long Beach. Master Juan S. Castillo
(290) and Master Rudolph A. Gatto (389).
75-year pin presentation to Fred L. Mason. P.M .. a member of
Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271, at a Dinner Reception in honor
of the recipient at the Community Center in Stonyford. Master
Lawrence Trombley.

10/30/97

Constitution of Black Mountain Lodge No. 845; Grand Lodge
opened at S.W. Hackett Lodge No. 574, San Diego. Master
Eugene Goldman.

01/17/98

Rededication and 125th Anniversary of Bakersfield Lodge No.
224; Grand Lodge opened at Bakersfield No. No. 224,
Bakersfield. Master Dale L. St. Claire.

01/23/98

Cornerstone Laying Ceremony at Charter Oak School; Grand
Lodge opened at Covina Lodge, No. 334, Covina. Master Glenn
V. Miller.

03/07/98

Rededication and lOOth Anniversary of Covina Lodge No. 334;
Grand Lodge opened at Covina Lodge, No. 334, Covina. Master
Glenn V. Miller.

03/20/98

Cornerstone Laying Ceremony at Santa Fe Middle School
hosted by Hemet Lodge No. 615 and the 449th Masonic District;
Grand Lodge opened at Hemet Lodge No. 615, Hemet. Masters
James S. Whitner(615), Michael C. Smith (289), James A. Cox
(338), Mike E. Lindstrom (411), and Ronald Perry (524).
Two Cornerstone Laying Ceremonies at Leroy Greene
·Elementary School and Natoma High School; Grand Lodge
opened at Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento. Master Don W.
D'Avis.

03/28/98

04/04/98

Cornerstone Laying Ceremonies at three schools in the Elk
Grove School District; Grand Lodge opened at Elk Grove Lodge
No. 173, Elk Grove. Master Jon Humphreys.

04/18/98

Rededication and 70thAnniversaryCele brationat San Gorgonio
Lodge No. 668, Banning; Grand Lodge opened at San Gorgonio
Lodge No. 668. Master Robert K. Kinnevey.

05/10/98

Sesquicentennial and Rededication Ceremony at Western Star
Lodge No. 2; Grand Lodge opened at Western Star Lodge No.
2, Shasta. Master Patrick Casady.

05/15/98

Cornerstone Laying Ceremony at Lake Gregory Elementary
School; Grand Lodge opened at Rim of the World Lodge No.
711 , Twin Peaks. Master James J. McCrory.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CEREMONIAL GRAND LODGE OPENINGS - CONTINUED

DISPENSATIONS

73

06113198

Rededication Ceremony, Exeter Kaweah Lodge No. 424; Grand
Lodge opened at Exeter Kaweah Lodge, No. 424, Exeter.
Master Joseph P. Zimmerman.

03/13/98

Dispensation granted to Atwater Larchmont-Tila Pass No. 614
to visit and confer a degree on their candidate using California
ritual in Dhahran Daylight Lodge No. 55 in Henderson Nevada.

06/14/98

Cornerstone Laying Ceremony, El Bekal Shrine Center; Grand
Lodge opened at Acacia Grove Lodge No. 351, Garden Grove.
Master Timothy P. Draughon, Potentate Donald G. Eyer.

04/24/98

Dispensation granted to Three Pillars No. 613 to visit and confer
a degree on their candidate using California ritual in Carson
Lodge No. 1 in Carson City, Nevada on Sept. 19, 1998.

07/10/98

Rededication Ceremony, Molino Lodge No. 150; Grand Lodge
opened at Molino Lodge No. 150. Master Phillip Wayne
Conway.

04/24/98

Dispensation granted to Three Pillars No. 613 to invite Carson
City No. 1 in Nevada to visit on May 9, 1998.

04/24/98

Dispensation granted to Los Altos No. 712 to visit and confer a
degree on their candidate using California ritual in Carson
Lodge No. I in Carson City, Nevada on June 13, 1998.

04/24/98

Dispensation granted to Downey United No. 220 to visit and
confer a degree on their candidate using California ritual in
Vegas Lodge No. 32, in Las Vegas on May 23, 1998.
Dispensation granted to Naval No. 87 to visit and confer a
degree on their candidate using California ritual in Washoe
Lodge in Reno Nevada on June 27, 1998.

07/24/98

09109198

09/11/98

Cornerstone Laying Ceremony at William C. Collier Elementary
School, Rededication Ceremony at Lake Elsinore Lodge No.
289; Grand Lodge opened at Lake Elsinore Lodge, No. 289.
Master Michael C. Smith.
Cornerstone Ceremony at Cedarwood Elementary School;
Grand Lodge opened at Table Mountain Lodge, No. 124,
Paradise. Master Raymond H. Daley.

04/24/98

75th Anniversary and Rededication Ceremony El Cajon Valley
Lodge No. 576; Grand Lodge opened at El Cajon Valley Lodge
No. 576. Master John R. Montanelli.

06109198

Dispensation granted to Alcatraz No. 244 to visit and confer a
third degree in Centennial Lodge No. 47 on July 18, 1998.

06109198

Dispensation granted to Volcano No. 56 to invite Douglas
Lodge No. 12 to visit Volcano No. 56 on June 27, 1998 to
confer second degree on Douglas Lodge candidate using Nevada
Ritual.

06110198

Dispensation granted to Nevada No. 13 to visit and confer a
degree on their candidate using California ritual in Franklin
Lodge No. 45 in Sparks, Nevada on September 23, 1998.

06116198

Dispensation granted to Clovis No. 417 to hold a Special
Election to re-ballot on Mr. Dwayne Allen Farrow.
Dispensation granted to Foothill No. 305 to hold a Special
Election to re-ballot on Mr. Santana Beaver Holcomb, Jr.

09130198

Cornerstone Laying Ceremony at Hawthorne Elementary
School; Grand Lodge opened at King David's Lodge, No. 209,
San Luis Obispo. Master Eldon S. Nelson.

10/02/98

Cornerstone Ceremony at Valley High School; Grand Lodge
opened at Consuelo Lodge No. 325 and North County Daylight
Lodge No. 843, Escondido. Masters Gary L. Carmack (325) and
Arthur M. Handel! (843).

10103198

Cornerstone Ceremony at Stuart Mesa Elemenatry School;
Grand Lodge opened at Oceanside Lodge No. 381, Oceanside.
Master Jack H. Gilmore.

10110198

Centennial Rededication Ceremony at the Masonic Home for
Adults in Union City; Grand Lodge opened at Siminoff Center,
Masonic Home for Adults, Union City.

10/12/98

Annual Communication of Grand Lodge; Grand Lodge opened
at California Masonic Memorial Temple, San Francisco.

06/24/98
07/28/98

Dispensation granted to Crocker No. 212 to hold a special
meeting and confer third degree at Wadsworth Lodge No. 25 in
Sparks, Nevada.

09/18/98

Dispensation granted to Volcano No. 56 to vist Douglas Lodge
No. 12 in Genoa, Nevada.

74

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

INSTAL LATION S- GRAND MASTE R PRESIDING

EXECUT IVE COMMI TTEE MEETIN GS
Grand Lodge, San Francisco.
Scottish Rite Masonic Center, San Diego.

12/07/97
12/12/97

01117/98

Masonic Home at Covina, Covina.
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, Bakersfield.

02/06/98

Sacramento.

03/03/98

Masonic Home at Union City, Union City.
Ionic Lodge No. 520, Los Angeles.

10/17/97
11/07/97
12/19/97

04/06/98
05/09/98

Redding.

06/21/98
07/25/98

Grand Lodge, San Francisco.
Riverside.

08/02/98

Sacramento.

09/02/98

Masonic Home at Union City, Union City.

10/09/98

Grand Lodge, San Francisco.

75

12/09/97

12/14/97
12/20/97

El Dorado Lodge No. 26, Placerville, Richard N. Tatti, Master.
Orange Grove No. 293, Orange, Ellis R. Adams, Master.
San Diego Lodge No. 35, San Diego, Thomas I. "Ted" Jarrard,
Master.
Evergreen Lodge No. 259, Riverside, James W. Lynch, Master.
Las Palmas-PonderosaLodge No. 366, Fresno, John S. Bjorge,
Master.

01/03/98
01/04/98
01/11/98

Ben Ali Shrine Solano Shrine Club and Clown Unit, Vallejo,
John R. Cowgill, President.
Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento, Don W. D'Avis, Master.
Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295, Guemeville, William C. Mitchell,
Master.

01/14/98
01/19/98
01/24/98

Molino Lodge No. 150, Los Molinos, Phillip Wayne Conway,
Master.
Burlingame Scottish Rite Bodies, Burlingame.
San Mateo Lodge No. 226, San Mateo, Gary L. Laubscher,
Master.

01/30/98
01/31/98

Pasadena Scottish Rite Bodies, Pasadena.
Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodies, Sacramento.

76

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECEPTIONS AND OTHER EVENTS

RECEPTIONS AND OTHER EVENTS - CONTINUED

10/15/97

Grand Lodge Installation of Officers, San Francisco.

10/18/97

Grand Master's Reception hosted by Santa Clara Valley
Masonic Officers Association and Golden Rule Lodge No. 479,
San Jose. Howard W. "Bud" Ramsay, W.M., President, Santa
Clara Valley Masonic Officers Assn.

11/01/97

Inspectors' Seminar, North, Elk Grove.

11/01/97

75th Anniversary Celebration, Ionic Lodge No. 520, Los
Angeles.
Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Orosi Lodge No. 383,
Orosi. Master LeRoy H. McBee.
75th Anniversary and Rededication, hosted by La Jolla Lodge
No. 518, La Jolla. Master Robert D. Haas.

11/05/97
11/07/97

77

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

01/15/98

Roll Call Dinner, Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento. Master D.
W. D'Avis.

01/22/98

Roll Call Dinner, Washington Lodge No. 20, Sacramento.
Master V. Allen Winter.

02/06/98

Past Grand Masters' Meeting, Shriners Hospital, Sacramento.

02/07/98

Junior Grand
Sacramento.

02/12/98

Widows Dinner and Entertainment, hosted by Fallbrook Lodge
No. 317, Fallbrook. Master William L. Hall.

02/14/98

Northern California Past Masters' Association Annual Meeting
and Installation of Officers, Sacramento.

02/27/98

San Diego and Imperial Past Masters' Association Annual
Meeting and Installation of Officers, San Diego.

Warden

Selection

Committee

Meeting,

l l/08/97

Inspectors' Seminar, South, Long Beach.

11/08/97

Rededication Ceremony and Reception, Mission Lodge No. 169,
San Francisco. Master Edward R. Keller.

02/28/98

Southern California Past Masters' Association Meeting and
Installation of Officers, Pasadena.

11/15/97

Grand Master's Reception and Western Hoedown, Suisun Lodge
No. 55, Fairfield. Master Harold Swank.

03/03/98

Grand Master's Reception, Masonic Home at Union City.

03/05/98

11/16/97

Grand Master's Champagne Brunch Reception river cruise,
hosted by Sacramento Area Masonic Officers Assocation,
Sacramento. Kenneth Campbell, P.M., President.

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Natoma Lodge No. 64,
Folsom. Master Casey W. Norris.

03/06/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Sun City Masonic
Luncheon Club, Roseville. President Jack Ellison.

03/06/98

Reception honoring Thomas M. Boles, Grand Orator and
Francis Atkinson, Grand Organist, hosted by Wisdom Lodge
No. 202, Pasadena. Master Levon A. Keshishian.

11/18/97

Grand Master's Gala Welcome Home Reception, hosted by
Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodies, Sacramento.

12/17/97

Holiday Party, Masonic Home at Union City.

12/19/97

Holiday Party, Masonic Home at Covina.

03/11/98

12/27/97

148th Annual St. John's Oyster Stew, Western Star Lodge No. 2,
Shasta. Master Hugh "Bud" Shuffieton, III.

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Moneta Lodge No. 405,
Gardena. Master Kenneth G. Hope.

03/12/98

Installation of Officers, Washington Lodge No. 20, Sacramento.
Master V. Allen Winter.

Degree Practice, Lakewood Lodge No. 728, Long Beach.
Master Charles Boone.

03/13/98

Central Coast Past Masters Association Annual Meeting, Santa
Maria.

12/28/97
01/01/98

Rose Parade and Rose Bowl Football Game, Pasadena.

01106/98

Installation of Officers, Bicentennial Daylight Lodge No. 830,
Sacramento. Master Howard C. Fish.

03/14/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Santa Barbara Scottish
Rite Bodies and the 314th Masonic District, Santa Barbara.

01/06/98

Installation of Officers, Landmark-Buckeye Lodge No. 195,
Esparto. Master Thomas P. Stowers.

03/16/98

Morgan Hill Chicken Feed, hosted by Golden Rule Lodge No.
479, Morgan Hill. Master Charles Mignosa.

78

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RECEPTIONS AND OTHER EVENTS - CONTINUED

RECEPTIONS AND OTHER EVENTS - CONTINUED

04/22/98

03/18/98

Outing to Palm Springs with residents from the Masonic Home
at Covina.

03/21/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Liberal Arts Lodge No.
677, Los Angeles. Master Michael L. Marsellos.

04/23/98

Reception honoring the Grand Master and Imperial Potentate,
hosted by Aahmes Shrine Temple, Livermore. Potentate Ed
Foster.

04/27/98

03/25/98

03/27/98

Reception honoring Wesley Daniels, Senior Grand Steward,
hosted by Santa Rosa-Luther Burbank Lodge No. 57, Santa
Rosa.

03/28/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Tehama Lodge No. 3,
Sacramento.

03/29/98

Grand Master's Brunch Reception, hosted by Stockton Area
Masonic Lodges, Stockton.

04/30/98
05108198

05109198

04/02/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by the Central Valley
Masonic Family, Fresno.
·

04/03/98

Stated Meeting, Sacramento Lodge No. 40, Sacramento. Master
Larry A. Reynolds.

05/10/98

04/06/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Ionic Lodge No. 520, Los
Angeles. Master Allan Omer.

05/10/98

04/16/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Ophir Bear Mountain
Lodge No. 33, Murphys. Master David A. Frederick.

05/16/98

R~eption honoring Tom Holm, Grand Treasurer, hosted by San
Dimas Lodge No. 428, San Dimas. Master Dwight D. Pfonner.

05/19/98

Public Schools program, presentation of E. I. Moore Awards to
students, hosted by Seafaring Lodge No. 604, Newport Beach.
Master Kenneth C. Rothman.

05/27/98

04/17/98
04/18/98

79

04/19/98

Annual Los Angeles Masonic Service Bureau Breakfast
Universal City.
'

05129198

04/20/98

Grand Master's visitation to V.A. Hospitals, Los Angeles and
Sepulveda.

05130198

04/21/98

Grand Master's visitation to Fort Miley V.A. Hospital, San
Francisco.

06103198

I

II

I

Public Schools program at Marsh School, followed by a
Reception honoring Jorge Soto, Grand Bible Bearer, AntiochBrentwood Lodge No. 175, Antioch. Master Joseph M. Wies.
Sesquicentennial Celebration of the first Public School in
California, presented by Glen Park School, sponsored and
hosted by Oriental Lodge No. 144. Master Neil A. Carlson.
Teacher of the Year and other Public School presentations, San
Jose Masonic Family, San Jose.
Grand Master's Gala Reception, hosted by Hollywood Lodge
No. 355, Van Nuys. Master Rudolph H. Bauer.
Academic Pentathlon, Marin County, John L. Cooper, III, Grand
Secretary, representing Grand Master. Sponsored by 134th
Masonic District.
Sesquicentennial Celebration of Western Star Lodge No. 2 at
Shasta. Celebration Banquet, Shasta County Fairgrounds,
Anderson.
Dedication of Western Star Lodge No. 2, Shasta. Master Patrick
Casady.
Annual Masonic Family Night Reception honoring Richard 0.
Bro~, Grand Standard Bearer, Olivet Lodge No. 205, Coming.
Master Norris W. Wilson, Sr.
Masonic Homes Endowment Dinner, Golden Trowel Lodge No.
273, Norwalk. Master Richard W. Jeanson.
Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Summit Lodge No. 112,
Knight's Ferry. Master Ronald W. Cowin.
Young Authors' Program, presentation of books, Washington
Lodge No. 20, Sacramento. Master V. Allen Winter.
Reception honoring V. Kent Armstrong, Grand Chaplain, hosted
by Escalon Lodge No. 591, Escalon. Master Eugene Boesch.
Grand Master's Reception, hosted by the 243n1 Masonic District,
Davis. Masters Kirk W Kirkman (81), Thomas P. Stowers
(195), and Ralph M. Gerolamy (201).
Grand Master's Reception and Annual Barbeque, Paradise Park
Masonic Men's Club, Santa Cruz.

80
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

81

RECEPTIONS AND OTHER EVENTS - CONTINUED
RECEPTIONS AND OTHER EVENTS - CONTINUED

06105198
06112198

06/13/98

Grand Master's Fiesta h t db
Gabriel. Master Daniei ~~~da.y Maya Lodge No. 793, San

07124198

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by the 449"' Masonic District,
Canyon Lake. Masters James S. Whitner (615), Michael C.
Smith (289), James A. Cox (338), Mike E. Lindstrom(41 l),and
Ronald Perry (524).

07125198

Dedication of Flagpole and Grand Master's Reception, hosted
by Riverside Lodge No. 635 and the 447 1h Masonic District.
Masters James W. Lynch (259), James P. Hannum, Jr. (314),
Ricky L. Lawler (635), and Eugene L. Ethridge (804).

07126198

Reception honoring David C. Decker, Junior Grand Warden,
hosted by the 441 51 Masonic District, Ontario. Masters Michael
A. Lee (30 l ), Dennis A. Ruh (419), Robert D. Clark (427), and
William Rook (436).

h
Grand Master's Rece f
Bodies Santa M . p ton, osted by Los Angeles Scottish Rite
•
omca.

Grand Master's Reception, hosted b th
"'
. .
Exeter. Masters Richard W H Y e 2 99 MasomcD1strict,
(303) Joseph Zim
· opper (128), Lonnie J. Tumey
06120 - 06123198 M ' ·
mennan <424).
asomc Homes Executives and Adm. .
America meeting, San Ramon.
mistrators of North
06126198
St. John's Day TableB
San F
.
anquet, La Parfaite Union Lodge No 17
~c1sco. Master Yves F. Ghiai-Chamlou.
. '
06127198
Rec~pt1on honoring Don Ecalnea, J . G
Sublune-Benicia Lodge No
M
umor rand Steward,
· 5· aster Reden A. Infante
07105198
Annual Picnic, Tehama Lod N
·
W. D' A vis.
ge o. 3, Sacramento. Master Don
07/12/98
Grand Master's Bru h R
.
Past Masters Unit,
:en Ali
07/19/98
Grand M
'
anise • .M., President.
Maso . ~~er .s Rece~tion, hosted by the 2 I 71h and 222•d
. . me tstricts, Chico. Masters Bill N
Y · Brasher (84),
Wiiham W. Henderson (I I I) p W
W. Wilson, Sr. (205) Philli'
~e Conway (I 50), Norris
Gilbert (50), Robert Mortens~ (. olleson (245), Robert E.
and William B. Jefferies (230).n 103), Raymond Daley (104),
07/15/98
Grand Master's Lu h
.
Past Masters Unitncs:nFRece~tton, hosted by Islam Shrine
President.
'
rancisco. Franklin Sing, P.M.,
07/16/98
Grand Master's Birthda p
.
Marysville-Friendship Chy t ~ and Recept10n, hosted by
Lodges, Marysville.
ap er, astern Star and local Masonic
07/18/98
h
·
Grand Master's Re t'
Strawberry.
cep ton, osted by Sciots Tract No. 11,

sa:~ame:~::~:~i!;;te~

b:

~brine

J

f

07 /31 - 08/02/98 Masonic Homes Board Retreat, Sacramento.
08103198

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Santa Ana Scottish Rite
Bodies, Santa Ana.

08105198

Reception honoring William L. McDonald, Grand Marshal,
hosted by Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento. Master Don W.
1'' Avis.

08106198

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Turlock Lodge No. 395,
Turlock. Master Tommy A. Farr.

08108198

Dedication and Plaque Laying at Bridgeport, visit to Bodie,
hosted by Winnedumah Lodge No. 287, Bridgeport. Master
William F. Kinzy.

08109198

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Chinese Acacia Club, San
Francisco.

08/13/98

Reception honoring Robert Rowan, Senior Grand Deacon, Los
Gatos - George E. Tutt Lodge, No. 292, Los Gatos. Master John
C. Kempf, Jr.

08/16/98

75lh AnniversaryCelebration,S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574, San
Diego. Master David A. Haslim.

08/17/98

Grand Lodge Cruise to Scandinavia and Russia, return 08/31198.

09/01/98

Grand Master's day at the Masonic Child ID booth, California
State Fair, Sacramento.

B

07123198

Festive Board, hosted by Burbank L0 d
Master Christopher K. Barnes.
ge No. 406, Burbank.

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECEPTIONS AND OTHER EVENTS - CONTINUED

83

VISITS TO OTHER GRAND LODGES
AND CONFERENCES

09103198

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Athens-Silveyville Lodge
No. 201, Davis. Master Ralph M. Gerolamy.

09/04/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Oasis Council No. 64,
Cryptic Masons, Victorville.

28-30, 1997

09/10/98

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by Silvergate Lodge No. 296,
San Diego. Master Edward W. Mahoney.

November
9-11, 1997

09/12/98

Grand Master's Reception, San Diego County Masonic Officers
Assn., San Diego. Thomas Jarrard, President.

January

09/13/98

75 111 Anniversary Celebration, Warren G. Harding Lodge, No.
579, Sacramento. Master Daniel W. Scott.
75 Anniversary Celebration, Beach Cities Lodge, No. 557,
Manhattan Beach. Master Guy S. Richmond.

09/19/98

Child ID event, sponsored by Santa Rosa Scottish Rite Bodies,
Santa Rosa.

09/19/98

Grand Master's Reception, Grand Master of the Philippines
special guest, Constitution Observance, hosted by SublimeBenicia Lodge No. 5. Master Reden A. Infante.

09/23/98

Old Timers Night and Reception, hosted by Wisdom Lodge No.
202, Pasadena. Master Levon A. Keshishian.

09/24/98

High School R.O.T.C. competition, International City Lodge
No. 389, Long Beach. Master Rudolph A. Gatto.

09/26/98

Constitution Observance and Annual Barbecue, hosted by the
310111 Masonic District, Templeton.Masters Robert W. Holtzman
(196), Eldon S. Nelson (209), Connie L. Jarvis (286), John A.
Storlie (493) and Bernard R. Seamans (719).

10105198

9-11, 1998

111

09/17/98

09/30/98

November

Grand Master's Reception, hosted by King David's Lodge No.
209, San Luis Obispo. Master Eldon S. Nelson.
Official Visit to Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento. Master Don
W.D'Avis.

Grand L~dge of New Zealand, Grand Master Tony Wordlow
representmg.
Grand L~dge of Nevada, Senior Grand Warden Alvin W .
eis
representmg.

Grand L?<1ge of Hawaii, Past Grand Master Allen Gresham
representmg.

January
22-24, 1998

Grand Lo.dge of Colorado, Junior Grand Warden David Decker
representmg.

February
19-25, 1998

.
Conference of Grand Masters and G d S
ecretaries,
ran
·
Ph ·1
I adelph1a, Pennsylvania, attending: Grand Master Tony
Wordlow, Deputy Grand Master Melville Nahin, and Grand
Secretary John L. Cooper, III.

April
1-3, 1998

Grand L~dge of Alaska, Senior Grand Warden Alvin Weis
representmg.

May
1-5, 1998

l

World Conference of Grand Masters New York NY att d" .
' en mg.
'
'
G d M
aster Tony Wordlow and Grand Secretary John L
ran
·
Cooper, III.

May
I 1-13, 1998

..

I

Western Conference of Grand Masters Seattle WA att d" .
' en mg.
'
,
G dM
aster Tony Wordlow, Deputy Grand Master Melville
r~
Nahm, Grand Secretary John L. Cooper, III.

June
3-5, 1998

Grand L~dge of Oregon, Junior Grand Warden David Decker
representing.

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

VISITS TO OTHER GRAND LODGES
AND CONFERENCE S - CONTINUED

CONCORDAN T, APPENDENT, AND MASONIC RELATED
0RGANIZATION EVENTS
I0/17/97

June
I0-13, 1998

Grand Lodge of Washington, Deputy Grand Master Melville
Nahin, representing.

10/18/97

June
18-20, 1998

Grand Lodge of British Columbia, Grand Master Tony Wordlow
representing.

June
25-27, 1998

I0/17/97

Grand Lodge of Montana, Past Grand Master Jack Levitt
representing.
Imperial Shrine, Orlando, Florida, Grand Master Tony Wordlow
representing.

1997-1998 openiog session Masonic Student Assistance
Program, Covina.

10/23/97

Secretaries Meeting, Sacramento.
High Twelve State Convention, Ontario.

10/24/97
10/25/97

12-14, 1998

Prince Hall Grand Lodge, Ontario, attending: Grand Master
Tony Wordlow, Deputy Grand Master Melville Nahin, Junior
Grand Warden David Decker.

l l/l l/97
l l/l l/97

August
9-11, 1998

I0/26/97
I0/28/97

July

Grand Lodge of Wyoming, Deputy Grand Master Melville
Nahin representing.

Shrine Jesters Court 4, Luncheon, San Francisco.
Feast of Tishri, San Francisco Scottish Rite Bodies, San
Francisco.
Northern California DeMolay, Grand Master's Class, San Jose

I0/21/97

June 28 July 2, 1998

85

11/12/97
11/13/97
11/15/97
11/19/97
11/29/97
12/06/97
12/13/97
12/16/97

Grand Chapter, Order of Eastern Star Initiation and Family
Session, Fresno.
Grand Chapter, Order of Eastern Star Installation of Officers,
Fresno.
Presentation of 50-year and 75-year DeMolay pins, Reception
sponsored by Washington Lodge No. 20, Sacramento.
Veterans' Day Parade sponsored by the United Veterans
Council, San Jose.
Ben Ali Shrine, Past Potentates Night, Sacramento.
Job's Daughters Grand Guardian Council, Sacramento
Sciots Supreme Pyramid Session and Pharaoh's Banquet, Long
Beach.
Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies Fall Reunion Class and luncheon,
Oakland.
Ben Ali Cabiri (Past Potentates) annual meeting, Sacramento.
Northern California DeMolay Conclave, Grand Secretary John
L. Cooper, Ill representing the Grand Master.
Scottish Rite Honors, San Diego.
Scottish Rite Honors, San Francisco.
Sacramento Scottish Rite stated meeting, Sacramento.

01/09/98

Official visit of the Daughters of the Nile Supreme Queen,
Nefru-Ari Temple, Lafayette.
California State Teachers of the Year presentation, Sacramento.

01/09/98

East-West Shrine Football Classic banquet, Santa Clara. ·

01/08/98

86

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CONCORDANT, APPENDENT, AND MASONIC RELATED

CONCORDANT, APPEND ENT, AND MASONIC RELATED

ORGANIZATION EVENTS - CONTINUED

0RGANIZATION EVENTS - CONTINUED

87

01/10/98

East-West Shrine Football Classic, Stanford Stadium, Palo Alto.

04/21/98

01/13/98

Ben Ali Shrine stated meeting, Sacramento.

04/26/98

Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodies, stated meeting, Sacramento.
York Rite Grand Sessions, Banquet, Fremont.

01/18/98

Islam Shrine, Brunch and Mass Installation of Officers, San
Jose.

04/27/98

York Rite Grand Sessions, Fremont.

04/29/98

San Francisco VA Hospital, 50-year Scottsh Rite pin
presentation, San Francisco.

05/31/98

Order of Eastern Star and Masonic Fun Day, Sacramento.

06/07/98

Sacramento Scottish Rite Setting Maul and Recognition Brunch,
Sacramento.

01/20/98

Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodies, Reception in honor of Ill. H.
Douglas Lemons, 33°. Lieutenant Grand Commander and
Sovereign Grand Inspector General in California, and stated
meeting, Sacramento.

01/21/98

San Francisco Scottish Rite Bodies, Installation of Officers, San
Francisco.

06/11/98

Installation of Supreme Queen, Daughters of the Nile, Las
Vegas, Nevada.

01/24/98

Calfornia Masonic Family Forum and MA YO meeting, Grand
Lodge, San Francisco.

06/24/98

San Francisco Scottish Rite Bodies, Philippines Night, San
Francisco.

02/01/98

Ben Ali Shrine Temple Guard, Potentate's visit, Sacramento.

06/25/98

Job's Daughters, Grand Bethel, Fresno.

02/07/98

Ben Ali Shrine Reception, Sacramento.

07/1 ]/98

02/08/98

Ben Ali Shrine Breakfast, Sacramento.

75-a-. Anniversary and Supreme Queen Visit, Menzaleh Temple,
Daughters of the Nile, Sacramento.

02/08/98

Grand Lodge Cruise preview dinner, Sacramento.

07/17/98

02/11/98

Official Visit of Worthy Grand Matron and Worthy Grand
Patron, Order of Eastern Star District 12, Sacramento.

Stockton Scottish Rite Mason of the Year presentation,
Stockton.

08/07/98

Stated meeting, Yolo Chapter No. 60, Order of Eastern Star,
Woodland.

Northern California DeMolay Leadership Training Camp,
Sonora.

08/15/98

Jam and Jelly Day, Order of Easter Star, Masonic Home at
Union City, Union City.

08/15/98

Santa Rosa Scottish Rite Mason of the Year presentation, Santa
Rosa.

02/13/98
02/22/98

Informal Opening Grand Court, Order of Amaranth Junior
Grand Warden David Decker representing the Grand Master,
Buena Park.

03/08/98

Tri-Clan meeting, The Robert The Bruce Association, Royal
Order of Scotland, Lodi.

09/06/98

Southern California DeMolay Conclave, Los Angeles.

09/14/98

03/15/98

Installation of Officers, Ila Neb Court, Ladies Oriental Shrine,
Sacramento.

Burlingame Scottish Rite Bodies Constitution and Public School
meeting, Burlingame.

09/18/98

03/22/98

Installation of Officers, Menzaleh Temple, Daughters of the
Nile, Sacramento.

National Camping Travelers Association, State Rally, San
Diego.

09/20/98

Golden Claymore Clan, Royal Order of Scotland, Pollock Pines.

03/24/98

National Sojourners, San Rafael.

10/10/98

04/05/98

Grand Assembly, Rainbow for Girls, Anaheim.

04/09/98

Maundy Thursday, Santa Rosa Scottish Rite Bodies, Santa Rosa.

DeMolay Legion of Honor Conferral, Grand Lodge, San
Francisco. Degree Conferral Team from both Northern and
Southern California.

88

10/22/97
10/27/97

12/11/97

03/23/98

03/26/98
03/31/98

04111/98

04/14/98

04/23/98
04/25/98

05/13/98
06/02/98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THIRD DEGREE CONFERRA LS

THIRD DEGREE CONFERRA LS - CONTINUE D

Capital City Lodge No. 499, Sacramento, candidate Young Hee
Young, Master L. Dale Hankins.
Grafton Lodge No. 141, Knight's Landing, candidate Harry
Culp, Master Kenneth Young; Grand Master acting Senior
Deacon.
Concord Lodge No. 117, Sacramento, candidate Robert J.
Sternes, Jr., Master Marvin R. Norris; Grand Master acting
Senior Deacon.
Oak Plains Lodge No. 789, Sacramento, candidate Michael P.
Barnes, Master, Gary D. Gilley; Grand Master acting Senior
Deacon.
El Dorado Lodge No. 26, Placerville, candidate Curt Martin,
Master Richard Tatti; Grand Master acting Senior Deacon.
Woodland Lodge No. 81 , Woodland, candidate David W.
Greenhalgh, M.D., Master Kirk W. Kirkman; Grand Master
acting Senior Deacon.
Western Star Lodge No. 2, Shasta, candidate Christopher A.
Wordlow, Master Patrick Casady; Grand Master acting Senior
Deacon. Everyfather' sdream come true, to help raise his son
to the sublime degree of Master Mason.
Bay Cities No. 337, Richmond, candidate Michael Downen,
Master Michael J. Consiglio; Grand Master acting Senior
Deacon.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61, Oakland, candidate Ryan Thomas
Leininger. Master Donald R. Parker.
Enterprise Lodge No. 70, Yuba City, candidate Jacob Charles
Onstott. Master David "Mike" Edwards; Grand Master acting
Senior Deacon. Outdoor degree in Sutter Buttes, James Tarke
Ranch.
Sacramento No. 40, Sacramento, candidate Robert F. Walsh.
Master Larry A. Reynolds; Grand Master acting Senior Deacon.
El Dorado Lodge No. 26, candidate Ed Knappe, Master Richard
Tatti; Grand Master acting Senior Deacon.
THIRD DEGREE CONFERRA LS

89

07/18/98

Tehama No. 3, candidate Louis Blanas, Master Don D'Avis;
Grand Master acting Senior Deacon. Outdoor degree at Sciots
Tract in El Dorado County, elevation 8500 ft.

07/25/98

Temecula Catalina Island Lodge No. 524; Temecula, candidate
James M. Howe, Master (and Junior Grand Deacon) Ronald
Perry; Grand Master acting Senior Deacon. Outdoor degree at
Liefer Ranch, Temecula.
Athens-SilveyvilleNo. 201 , Davis, candidate L. Brandon Culp,
Master Ralph M. Gerolamy; Grand Master acting Senior
Deacon.

08/11/98

08/12/98

Sacramento No. 40, Sacramento, candidate Don Chandler
Hodson, Master Larry A. Reynolds; Grand Master acting Senior
Deacon.

09/07/98

Howard Lodge No. 37, Yreka, candidate Michael H. Pearlman;
Master Delmar W. Van Tassell, Jr.; Grand Master acting Senior
Deacon. Degree by candle and moonlight in Pythian Cave near
Mt. Shasta.

90

91

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

HIRAM AWARDS PRESENTED BY GRAND MASTER

Jrntlamafinn
03/30/98

Table Mountain Lodge No. 124, Paradise; recipient Harold
"Jack" Rogers. Jr.. P.M.; Master Raymond H. Daley.

04/08/98

Vesper Lodge No. 84, Red Bluff; recipient James C. Younger.
P.M.; Master Billy N. Brasher.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576, El Cajon; recipient Nonnan
Cuinn; Master John Montanelli.
Enterprise Lodge No. 70, Yuba City; recipient Donald Landrus;
Master David M. Edwards.

09/11/98
09/15/98

nf f~e

~nsf ~nrsqipful ~qnnv

J. ~nrMnftt

<iranit ~sfn nf fqt <iranit ~nitgt
~rte anit ~ttpftit ~sans nf aialifornia
MASONIC YOUTH ORDERS MONTH
~qn:eas:

Brother Frank Sherman Land, a Master Mason with Louis G. Lower and eight other
young men in their teens founded the Order of DeMolay on March 15, 1919; and

~qn:eas:

Ethel T. Wead Mick organized the International Order of Job's Daughters on May 27,
1921 to band together girls for spiritual and moral upbuilding; to inspire a desire for
knowledge, to teach love of country and flag, love of home, respect for parents and
elders and reverence for the Holy Scriptures; and
Reverend Brother W. Mark Sexon formed the International Order of Rainbow for Girls
on April 6, 1922 to prepare girls for a brighter, better and more beautiful womanhood;
and
for the past three quarters of a century these outstanding Youth Orders sponsored by
dedicat~ Master Masons have inculcated great Moral and Masonic lessons which are

sadly lacking in today's society. These values taught at the Altar of every Masonic Youth
Order include among others: Filial Love, Reverence, Courtesy, Comradeship, Fidelity,
Oeanness, Patriotism, Faith, Hope, and Charity together with lessons which are found
in the Volume of the Sacred Law insure that young men and women who take them to
heart will not fail as they assume leadership positions in our society;
Now therefore, do I, ANTHONY P. WORDLOW, Grand Master of Masons in California

hereby

Jrodaim:

the Month of March as MASONIC YOUTH ORDERS MONTH; and I direct every constituent lodge in this jurisdiction to arrange appropriate programs to recognize the International Orders of DeMolay, Rainbow for Girls and Job's Daughters; further I direct
that this Proclamation be read at the February and March stated meetings of each lodge
and where practicable published in each lodge trestleboard or newsletter.
In Testimony whereof I have heretofor set my hand and caused the seal of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Maaons of California to be affixed this fifth
day of January, 1998.
Attest:

(/~~

CJ John L Cooper Ill

Anthony P. Wordlow
Grand Master

GRA ND LOD GE OF CAL IFOR NIA

93

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

92

Jrurlatttafinn

Jrnrlamafintt

of tqt

n
#!{nsf ~nntJripful l\.nt4nnJI J. ~nrMnf
<6ranh Jia stn nf f4:e <§ranh ~nhgt
J"lfr:e:e anh ~f:eh J'iasnns nf ~lifnrnfa

nf tlfe

rMnfn
~md ~nrsqipful ~fqnny J. ~n

ns

sn
<iranh c#Rasfn nf Jlfr:e:e anh ~fth ~a
nf alaltfornfo

MAY - MA SO NIC HOMES
EN DO WM EN T MO NT H

TIME"
"EDUCATION - THE CHANCE OF A LIFE
TH
MON
APRIL - PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Swet~ Supintendent
ers In our Public Schools with our Brother John
Masons in California have always been believ
Public Schools" and the foremost
rnia's
Califo
of
r
"Fathe
the
as
ized
recogn
of Public Instruction in 1863 being
en in California; and
proponent of the frte public schools for childr
en with a
are severe, and the need to provide childr
nges facing our public shools in California
and
goals;
~qnras: the challe
al
nation
our
ain
maint
superlor education essential IO achieve and
1920
ve leadership our Grand Lodge provided in
our public schools demand the same effecti
the
~qnras: the aisis facing
schools in the United States were dosed for
18,379
that
ed
observ
Adams
Albert
s
Charle
200,000
when Grand Master
below standards; that of 600,000 teachers
ers
"teach
by
taught
were
en
childr
lack of teachers; 41,900
l training;" and
d the eighth grade and 300,000 fJad no specia
have had less than four years training beyon
financial shortfalls,
rnia are experlendng diminishing resources,
Public School Distrlcts in many areas of Califo
~qnras: deteri
oration of school infrastructure; and
st based education
State and Natlon receive the finest and btmde
is crucial for America that the youth of our
national destiny
and
t
cemen
advan
l
loglca
teehno
~qnras: itavaila
living,
rd of
ble any place in the world so that our standa
the opportunity
e
provid
will
which
tion
educa
an
not be deprlved of
I,
is maintained In order that each child will
personal development; Now therefore do
and
ng
learni
of
e"
Ufetlm
a
of
e
Chanc
IO experlence truly "The
hereby
rnia
Califo
In
s
Mason
of
r
Maste
AN'TIIONY P. WORDLOW, Grand
lodge In this Grand
in California and I di~ each constituent
the month of Aprll IO be Public Schools Month
about continued public
brlng
unity
comm
their
the
of
s
school
or
Jurisdiction join in assisting the public school
the public understand·
ls by adopting programs which will Improve
awareness and support for our Public Schoo
funding to maintain
ate
adequ
for
need
dire
the
size
empha
s and
ing and support of our free public school
teachers.
and
ts
studen
of
safety
and
health
well as the
facility infrastructure and moderization as
volunteer for school
to
ers
memb
rage
encou
and
adopt a school
I further direct that wherever possible lodges
ms.
impnmment projects or menlOring progra
al, published in the
March and Aprll Stated Meetings and, if practic
the
at
read
be
mation
I direct that this procla
etter.
lodge trestleboanl or newsl
ipful Grand Lodge,
my hand and ca1L'>ed the seal of the Most Worsh
Jn Testimony wh~reof I have heretofor set
ry, 1998.
Janua
of
day
fifth
this
affixed
be
to
rnia
Free and Accepted Masons of Califo

Jru dai tn:

Allest:

di~~~
Secretary

•

(htA;~uJ~&J
Anthony P. Wonllow
Grand Master

.
.
nt Fund
In 1910, the Masonic Hom es Endo wme
a few short years
hold at th wMas es~blisHhed, Just
n
after the first resident crossed the thres
e asoruc ome in Decato (now Unio
and
;
City)

:y ~ghtablishment

nt Fund our brethren acted "th
of the Masonic Hom es Endo wmefor
wi
.
finan '
gin
arran
ssion
impre
ible
indel
an
oresi t to make
ces sodolur ~rue Hom es
warm
a
and
ies
facilit
g
andin
outst
de
could provi
home to our
and child:en; and cann g an oving
elder ly brethren, their wives, wido ws

~qnras:
~qnras:

s!:ure .

Masonic H
Every tax dedu ctible donation to the future; and omes Endo wme nt Fund will help to
provi de a stron g financial base for the

. .

.

es Endo wme nt Fund will torever rema in intact with
principal of the Masonic Hom
!he
f
·
.
interest only used for th
oMas onicH omes atUn ionC ity dC
ourtw
an ovma
eope ratio no tance
.
d
as deem ed
1
in
an provi de for Non-Resident Assis
the ~Hry. urgEne devery Mason
to
tion
dona
a
make
to
iction
Jurisd
this C:rand
owm ent Fund
c omes
May;
g
durin
e
lodg
his
of
tary
Secre
the
throu gh

r

DLO
Now therefore, do I' AN1 HON Y P.. WOR
W, Gran d Master of Masons in California
hereb y

Jru dai m:

ES ENDOWM
the Month of May as MASONIC HOM
ENT MONTH; and I direct that
.
this Proclamation be read at the Ma
each lodge and wher e practiof
g
nl
meeti
d
stardh!
boy
trestle
lodge
cable publi shed in each
a or news etter.
and cause d the se 1 f the Most
o

a
ln Tesh~ony
h!d M
w.
ors 1pful Gran d lodg e Free and Accep
asons of California to be affixed this
whereof l have heretofor set my hand
tenth day of April, 199S. '

Attest:

___(~

~/

Gran d Secretary

~remrasans .Jlmfeb: !-n i:Jnbelihle i:Jm prns ian

Anth ony P. Wordlow
Gran d Master

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPE NDIX B

We tfie Peopfe - 'Ifie Constitution, an
JrukfiE(e '1Jocutn£nt of!Frwfom"
The Constitution of these United Statea ot America in the wonts of Gladstone, the gmt British Statesman,

Is "the most wonderful Wiiii ~ strudr ~t a QMf1 Ume by the brain nl. purpose of man,• and;

~- -...,
c.':a .,,:.-;;. ~ !
Tht chairman of the COllVll!lion lllltflllllld: our Constltutlon was Brothe{GllOfge Washington who was

hlld blm that only his prestige
pment at greatper!Oiiar ai:ittlcs M.came llJ Phlladefpbi\wh•n others
1
; •.,,.
lf!!uld assur,,the ConstltullonafCon¥ent1o11'uuceess.·~ ~,

~ ·~·~.n~: ~-"~< ·4 ,_ - '·) ' ,~~ '·~

~.::JJ_
'"
is
On Sepl8mber 17,.l78T, Ille Consdtulionil Convenllon brought forth a document of 0ovtmment which
people
proclaimed-throughout the world• the "llnest 1111Pmsion IMlf' lllllde at1lle de!anninllion ol a free
~
to govem themlelves and ID prollcllheii: Uberty," and; ·~:'._{· ·( ; _ ..;

.~.;..~~111t~ ttitwe~~,PE~i>~;.~n anc1 pruNbit
~\fliu Ten A~"!i;;.
taklno . away. the'i:lltaln._~ison "'9md 111.ID,tlle Oeclntion of

I

QOY11nvnent from

M;, ·\- t'./.j'.'.;' .!
If

·~
1>).
~- -- - -~~
Our IM~ Consti!utf~ Is. a'c~rtKOl liberty protecting every Americ:alr~ 111o11 • ~ wlllt rights
· i 1 -'I ·\ ---.:.-~
given ID us 171 Divine Providence; \ ·j'
I \ . 1 .,.,-,.,~
~...._\~. - ~--- 7~ . t_.,member of the
In California,
Mason$
of
Master
Grand
Therelorw-do I, Anthony'P. Wonllow,
Daniel
Family of Fmmasonry ID upiiold)rid inaintalri ·aur-C'onSiitutiOn ever'flllndlul of the injunction of
.-f\;,._:;~ 1
Webster._who said..~ ::.'._-"Li '
~Hottto'rr, -myfrisnds, ta lb1 Consttt;;;;;;,-of tha United StallS of Americl;. and ID tire R1111ubllc fDr
thousand ya~ tnllY
OllCll ti
irnich It stands. Mtraclls fk1 not r:lusttr. and wfllt
/rapplll l(Jlin. Hold on to 'your Constitution, far If 1111 American Qlllltltutlon should fall, there
, ·' ~- .: -- .. · •
rtfH be anarchy lhfOll(J/lout 1111 ~ •
lndependen~~;_"

l

urae

i

i,

Ila,.,,,,,,,_

"=" "

.

'O.'" '- ·-

.

w

""w..g

f

l

in an
I dilllCI that every consti1uent Lodge in the Grand Jurisdiction of 'Caffomia conduct or participate
appropriate program to commemorate the signing of the ~n during the month of September,

..

I direct that this Proclimalion be read at the August and Sepl!mber Slllld: .....ngs of each Lodge
~,,;!.
Where practical, published in the Lodge bulletin or trntieboard.

and

Grand
In testimony whereof I have heretofore set my hand and caused the seal of the Most Worshipful
Lodge Of Free and Accept!d Masons in callfomia to be affixed this fourth day of July, A.O. 1998.

Attest

fd-<'.~

C7Jahn L Cooper Ill, Glllld Secl8lary

,

1

lt

1.
GRAN D LODG E OF CALIFORNIA

97

REP ORT OF THE DEPU TY GRA ND MAS TER

1998-99 Gran d Lodge Budget

Melville H. Nahin, Depu ty Gran d Maste r

Section 7040 of the Calif ornia Masonic Code requi
res the Depu ty Gran d
Mast er to prepa re the Gran d Lodg e Budg et for
subm ission to Gran d Lodg e each
year. A copy of that budg et was sent to you more
than 30 days in advan ce of the
conv ening of Gran d Lodg e, as requi red by our
laws. It is based on the per capit a
adopted by the l 48th Annu al Comm unica tion in
Octo ber 1997. The per capita was
established at $17.44 (inclu ding $1.30 for the
California Freemason maga zine) .
As of June 30, 1998, our Lodg es reported 99, 798
Mast er Masons, from which we
must subtract 2,599 Mast er Maso ns whos e dues
were remitted. The net asses sable
mem bersh ip for the 1998 -1999 Gran d Lodg e
Budg et is therefore 97,19 9 Mast er
Masons.
The 1998 per capit a of $17 .44 assessed on the
basis of 97, l 00 Mast er
Maso ns is expected to produ ce a reven ue of $1,69
5, 151. This year' s per capita
reven ue is $25,003 less than last year due to the
decline in assessable mem bers.
Misc ellan eous income, inclu ding interest incom
e and the increased divid end from
Nob Hill Masonic Mana geme nt, Inc., will result
in a total estim ated incom e of
$1,891,029.
The estimated expen ses for 1998-1999 are $1,56
1,019 , plus $126 ,359 for
publishing the California Freemason maga zine.
The differ ence betw een incom e
and total expen ses is $203 ,651, and is allocated
to Depr eciati on Reser ve ($50,000),
and the Gran d Lodg e Endo wmen t Fund
($153,651). The Gran d Lodg e
Endo wme nt Fund was estab lished to help offse
t future declines in mem bersh ip,
thus helping to soften the impa ct of the rapid decli
ne in mem bersh ip expec ted to
conti nue over the next few years. The Endo wmen
t Fund was established by vote
of Gran d Lodg e to smoo th out future increases
in per capita by reser ving some
prese nt income for future need.
For the past sever al years each Gran d Mast er has
made a comm itmen t to
reduc e the budg et to reflec t the decli ne in mem bersh
ip and Gran d Lodge has voted
to suppo rt this comm itmen t by increasing the per
capita to offse t inflationary costs.
In conne ction with this comm itmen t, the budg et
for 1998-1999 has a 5.4% increase
to meet the costs of inflation.
At the 148th Annu al Comm unica tion, a speci
al $1.00, one year only,
addit ional per capita tax was adopt ed by Gran
d Lodge for profe ssion al publi c
relations use. This provi ded $97, 199 which is
being reported separately from the
incom e and expen ses repor ted above.

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

These funds provide the base for a much larger coordinated public
relations program involving, as appropriate, the other Masonic entities and many
of the concordant bodies. As now structured, the aggregate expenditures will be
approximately $850,000 over three years, of which only $97, 199 comes from
Grand Lodge. From all organizations participating, a Public Relations Oversight
Committee has been formed to select and monitor a public relations firm to
spearhead this effort.
My Brethren, we are the original promise keepers. We have agreed and
we have the last several years, reduced the amount of the budget. We have had a
surplus. As we have asked you to commit yourself to the 4.00% increase that our
Senior Grand Warden will discuss with you. We feel that we are honoring our
promise to you and you are honoring your promise to each other. And, indeed, you
are.
As your Deputy Grand Master, I pledge to you the continuation of
responsible and prudent management of the resources of Grand Lodge in 19981999. Working together we can use our limited resources to strengthen
Freemasonry in California, while supporting programs importantto our Lodges and
to our members.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CAUFORNIA •
CAl..IP'OANIA MASONIC MEMORIAL Tl!.MPL.E
ft 11 CAU,.ORNIA STRl:llT
SAN ""ANC llCO . CA M109· 2.lN
1•111 77•~7000

Memorandum
DATE:

August 25, 1998

TO:

All Secretaries of All California Lodges

FROM:

Melville H. Nahin, Dq>uty Grand Master
Alvin J. Weis, Senior Grand Warden

SUBJECT:

1998-1999 GRAND LODGE BUDGET
1999-2000 GRAND LODGE PER CAPITA

Section 7040 of the California Masonic Cock requires the Deputy Grand Master to prepare the Grand Lodge
Budget for submission to Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication. That budget is prepared with
the assistance of the f Jrand Lodge Committee on Finance and the Grand Treasurer. It is based on the~,.
capita adopted by Grand Lodge at the previous Annual Communication, and collected from each Lodge in
accordanl:e with the number of Master Masons canied on the rolls of the Lodge as of June 30 next preceding
the forthcoming Ann:iu Communication. At the 148"' Annual Communication in October, 1997, the pu
capita was established at SI 7.44 (including SI .30 for the California Fnema.ton magazine). As of June 30,
1998, our Lodges reported 99,798 Master Masons, less 2,599 whose dues had been remitted. The net
assessable membership is therefore 97, I 99 Master Masons (a 4,778 decline from a year ago).
1998-1999 Grand Lodge Budget:

The 1998 ~,.capita ofSl7.44 assessed on the basis of97,199 Master Masons is expected to produce a
revenue ofSl,695,151. This year's per capita revenue is S25,003 less than last year due to the decline in
assessable members. Miscellaneousim:ome, including interest income and the increased dividend from Nob
Hill Masonic Management, Inc., will result in a total estimated income ofSl,891,029.
The estimated expenses for 1998-1999 are Sl,561,019, plus Sl26,359 for publishing the Califomla
Frt1emason magazine. The difference between income and total expenses is S203,65 I, and is allocated to
Depreciation Reserve (S50,000}, and the Grand Lodge Endowment Fund (Sl53,651). The Grand Lodge
Endowment Fund was established to help offset future declines in membership, thus helping to soften the
impact of the rapid decline in membership expected to continue over the next few years. The Endowment
Fund was established by vote of Grand Lodge to smooth out future increased in per capita by reserving
some present income for future need.

100

IOI

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Memoranduni
August 2.5, 1998
Page Two

GRAND LODGE F&AM OF CALIFORNIA
Budget Workshfft
PropoMd 1991199 Budget

.1

budget to reflect the
For the past several years each Grand Master has made a commianent io reduce the
the per capita
increasing
by
nt
commitme
this
support
to
voted
has
decline in membership and Grand Lodge
has a .5.4%
to offset inflationary costs. In connection with this commitment, the budget for 1998-1999
·
inflation.
of
costs
the
meet
to
increase
1998-1999 Special Grand Lodge
Per Capita for Profeajon al Public Rg!atiop Use
tax was adopted
At the 148* Annual Communication a special $1.00, one year only, additional per capita
is being reported
by Grand Lodge for professional public relations use. This provided $97, I99 which
separately from the income and expenses reported above.

involving, as
These funds provide the base for a much larger coordinated public relations program
As now structured, the aggregate
bodies.
concordant
the
of
many
and
entities
Masonic
other
the
,
appropriate
comes from Grand
expenditures will be approximately $8.50,000 over three years, of which only $97,199
has been formed to
Lodge. From all organizations participating, a Public Relations Oversight Committee
selec1 and monitor a public relations firm to spearhead this effort
and prudent management of
limited resources to
the resources of Grand Lodge in 1998-1999. Working together we can use our
to our Lodges and to our
important
programs
supporting
while
California,
in
ry
Freemason
strengthen
members.

As your Deputy Grand Master, I pledge to you the continuation of responsible

~:k

1197/91
Budget

1991199
PropoMd
Budg:t

Projected
Actual

~
Per Capita & Fffs
Lodge Per Capita
Degnie Fees
Adjustments to Per Capita
Charters & Dispensations

(1 ,582,883)
(3,500)
7,500
0

(1,594,074)
(3,318)
5,381
0

(1 ,568, 792)
(3,348)
7,500
0

Total Per Capita & Fees

(1,578,883)

(1,5112,011)

(1,564,640)

Contributio ns
Contributions

0

11ooi

0

Total Contributio ns

0

(100)

0

(30)
0
(50,000)
0
1103 1

ocol

(51)
(1,31111)
(50,000)
(881)
!128,870j

(30)
0
(80,000)
0
1140,0COj

(153,030)

(181,280)

(200,030)

11.n1,1u1

11.n3,3111

(1,764,6701

Other Income
Sale of Fntemason
Worller's Comp Dividend
Dividend from NHM
Misc Income
lntenist • Unntstricted
Total Other Income
TOTAL INCOME

Deputy Grand Master

1999-2000 Grand Lod&e Per Capita:

ds that the per capita
In accordance with the principles above, the 1998-1999 Proposed Budget recommen
by another 5.4%
drop
to
expected
income
With
increase.
4%
a
is
which
$18.14,
at
for 1999 be established
to support programs
in 1999 from the continuing decrease in membership, this increase will allow us
important to our Lodges and to your Grand Lodge.
hours of bard work to bring
nt to prudently
you a responsible budget based on the best information possible. It represents a commitme
nt to you
commitme
my
represents
it
And
future.
the
for
and
now,
Lodge
Grand
of
resources
manage the
for your
operations
of
base
financial
sound
a
ensuring
by
to continue to strengthen our beloved Fraternity
Grand Lodge.

As you study the attached pages, please be reminded that figures rcprcsent many

e.
~t
Scni/'~

Warden
Page 1

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND L.ODGE F&AM OF CALIFORNIA
Budg9t Worbi-t
PropoMd 1991199 Bud119t
Projected
Actual

1117/H
Bud!!:!
EXPENSES
FRATERNAL EXPENSES
Ann11111 Communication
Annual Communication
lnapecton' Expenses
Represenlallve Miieage
Ofllcers' Expenses
Contingency
Tlltlll Annual Communtattan
Olllcers' Expen•
Appointed Oflk:ers
Elected Oflk:ers
GIWICI Maier's Travel
Grand Maier's Relief
Out of Stile Conferences
Contingency
Tlltlll Olllcers' Expen•

95,000
30,000
24,000
38,500
14,500

95,000
30,000
24,000
38,500
14,500

Z00,006

200,000

2ouso

75,000
48,500
22,000
2,000
21,825

ea.ooo

75,000
l!0,000
22,000
2,000
22,900
4,500
188,400

54,000
22,447

178,825

21,382
0
185,a2i

Tlltlll OCher FllllMMI Expeme

4,000
11,000
7,000
131 ,850
4,500
7,000
58,000
4,000
12,025
239,375

8,135
11,000
2,000
128,588
5,085
4,111
82,423
3,841
4,238
221,1 '6

.m

TOTAL. FRATERNAL EXPENSE

111,000

593,001

112,202

9,500

Other Fmemal ExpenComerstone Relmblnemenl
Grand Lodge 150llt Hlsl. Book
Grand Lodge Regalia
P!llp. & U•blllly Ins.
Group Travel lnsunmce
PGM Meeting
Rltu•I Comm & Inspectors
Fmemal Rei.tlons

Contingency

GRAND L.ODGE F&AM OF CALIFORNIA
Budget WortiahMt
PropoMd 1991119 Budget

1991119
Pro po Md
Budg:t

100,450
30,000
27,500
38,500
14,500

5,000
11,000
7,000
144,827
2,000
7,000
74,000
4,000
12,025

1997191
Budget
APPROPRIATIONS
Calif. Masonic Forum
Chaners
Public Relations
Credentials
Friend to Friend
Lodge Services Coordlnltlng Committee
Executive Committee
Finance
GIL. Week Activities
Inspectors' Orientation
l11SU111nce
Investment
OFFSET: Inc lnvSI Committee
Jun prudence
Lodge Resources Development(Deleted 98199
Masonic Education
Masonic History
Masonic Info. Speakers Panel
Masonic Service Bureau
Masonic Selvice Assoc:imtton
Masonic Widows Prognm
Memonal Selvice
Polley & General Purpose
Prince Hall
Public Schools
OFFSET: Inc Public Sch . •
Re11rement Pension Pr.n
OFFSET: Inc Riii Plan
Sojourners (Dele1ed 911199)
Temple Properties & Tuation
Tournament of Roses Parade
OFFSET: Rose Parade Revenue
TrialReviU.S. Constitution Observance
Wardens' Retreat
OFFSET: Inc Wrdns Retn
Youth Orders
Masonic Re-I (Deleted 98199)
omcer Management Worbhops
Town Hall Meetings
Five Year Plan
Reserves
TOTAL. APPROPRIATIONS

19Hl99
Proposed
Budp.t

Projectmd
Actual

500
800
1,500
500
12,000
5,000
7,000
1,500
5,000
1,000
1,500
4,800
(4,800)
4,000

8,000
2,000
8,000
0
2,000
1,500
2,000

257
495
9,598
113
13,000
1,204
2,422
1,884
4,052
1,210
1,141
10.203
(10,203)
1,588
9,956

222
2,701

8

500
800
4,000
500
12,000
0
7,000
1,500
5,000
7,000
1,500
4,800
(4,800)
3,000
0
2,000
8,000
0
2,000
1,500
1,500
800
8,000
0
1,200
0
1,500
(1,500)
0
2,000
0
0
3,500
3,000
132,000
(132,000)
15,200
0
10,000
2,750
7,000
18,3n

500
2,000
0
0
3,000
2,000
132,000
(132,000)
8,000
10,000
4,000

842
1,137
354
835
4,438
418
1,118
(2,271)
1,418
(1,418)
0
1,188
112,424
(111 ,212)
2,497
4,133
125,943
(125,943)
13,884
13,829
5,807

49,500

0

147,100

91,127

123,422

0

0

97,199
!!7,11111!
0

l!OO
8,000

500
1,200
0

l!OO
(l!OO)

PUBLIC REL.ATIONS
OFFSET: Per Capita
Total Public Ralatlona

Pege2

103

Page 3

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRANO LODGE F&AM OF CALIFORNIA
Budget wortcaneet
Proposed 1991199 Budget

GRANO LODGE F&AM OF CALIFORNIA
Budget Wortca!MM
Propo..d 1991199 Budget

Projected
Actual

1997/91
Budp:t

GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE
FacilltlH & Fiscal Ope1'8tionl
Accounting SeNices
Allllll Fee
Investment Management Fees
Bank SeNice Charges
Janitorial SeNice
Facillty Rent
property/F ed Exe Taxes
Legal Fees
Secretaries Worl<ShOI>
Total Fae: & Fiscal Ope1'8tlon
Ofllce expenses
Dues
subSCrtplions
Leased Equip
Lodge Supplies
OFFSET: L..oelge SuP Sales

Misc Elq)ense
Office Equipment
Office Supplies
Postage & Delivery
Pnntlng
Printing Reimbursement
Repair & Maintenance
Telepl\One
Travel Expenses
Other Operating Sup
Other Outside SeNic:es
Software
Vehicle Expense
Golden Veterans Awards
Prtntlng(Frat)
Workers Comp Lodges
Contingency
Total Ofllce Expense

1991199
Proposed
Buc!p•t

1997/91
Budam1

105

1991199
Proposed
Buda:!

Projected
Actual

Personnel
4,000
17,500
0
1,000
9,560
26,500
3,000
2,000
10,000

73.seo

0
14,700
3,202
890
9,534
26 ,500
2,928
49
8,548
94,350

2.000
17.850
3,500
1,200
9,800
28.500
3,000
1,200
7,000
72,050

12.000
300
10,750
95,000
(95,000)
7,200
3,150
26,200
48,800
14,56&
(10,000)
18,390
45,880
10,350
1,820
11,830
11 ,500
3,700
5,000
30,000
3,820
35,500
288,158

5,480
213
11,429
110,8117
(118,518)
7,940
8,413
48,573
51,888
15,000
(13,294)
10,480
48,940
13,185
4,179
17,800
7,907
2,880
13,423
22,787
3,998
0
293,159

8,000
200
10,750
95,000
(95,000)
7,500
2,000
44,700
53,700
11 ,088
(15,000)
11,990
50,280
18,400
4,270
8,530
7,500
2,1150
7,000
20,000
8,147
35,500
291,495

Page 4

SalariH & Benefits
Salaries
Benefits
Total Salaries & Benefits

719,352
145,944
884,9118

729,707
129,785
as11,411z

815,345
157.397
972}41

Education & Training
Employee Special Events
Pre Employment Exp
Temporary Labor
Payroll Processing
Total Personnel

8,700
5,000
7,500
23,000
7,000
918,198

3,088
5,440
11,452
80,877
8,570
94e,3119

5,400
5,000
11,500
12,000
7,000
1,013,941

127,471
!127,471)

127,525
!127,471!

<Oi

54

128,359
!128,3511!
0

FrHmHO n Magazine
Freemason Expense
OFFSET: Frmsn Per Cap
Total Freemason Magazine
Capital Expenditure•

50,000

50,394

50,000

1,354,570
(538,570)
(14,750)
(44,1411)
110.000)

1,427,171
(575,224)
(15,437)
(48,1111)

Sub-total

1,325,913
(538,570)
(14,750)
(44,1411)
110.0001
(807,4811)
718,444

747,101

( 1,780)
775,3115

TOTAL ALL EXPENSE

1,4111544

1,438,711

1,511,019

Nfi! !l~!<BliaS!iil 121ii!<Blia!llii

tm..1ll.l

~

~

Net Increase Allocated to:
Depreciation ReseNe
Endowment Fund

50,000
200,189

50,000
284,802

50,000
153,851

Total Gen & Admin Exp
OFFSET: Exp AllOc MHC
OFFSET: Exp Alloc CMT
OFFSET: Exp AllOc NHM
OFFEST: Exp Alloc CMF

.

Page 5

(807.4&i

as·~

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPENDIXC

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

109

REPORT OF THE SENIOR GRAND WARDEN

Per Capita Recommen dations for 1999-2000
Alvin J. Weis, Senior Grand Warden
In accordance with the principles outlined by our Deputy Grand Master,
the 1998-1999 Proposed Budget recommends that the per capita for 1999 be
established at $18.14, which is a 4% increase. With income expected to drop by
another 5.4% in 1999 from the continuing decrease in membership, this increase
will allow us to support programs important to our Lodges and to your Grand
Lodge, while funding a lesser budget in 1999-2000 than the current year. This
continued reduction in expenses reflects the reality we face, while also recognizing
the reality of the need to support important programs and activities. The proposed
1999 per capita includes an amount for the California Freemason magazine, our
prime means for communicating with all our members.
Grand Lodge will not continue the Special Grand Lodge Per Capita of
$1.00 for Professional Public Relation Use adopted at the 1997 Annual
Communication. Once again, the $1.00 special assessment was for 1998 only.
Please remember that the 1999-2000 Proposed Budget and the per capita
needed to fund it represents many hours of hard work to bring to you responsible
budget based on the best information possible. It represents a commitment to
prudently manage the resources of the Grand Lodge now, and for the future. And
it represents my commitment to you to continue to strengthen our beloved
Fraternity by ensuring a sound financial base of operations for your Grand Lodge.

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPENDIXD

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

113

REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
The Grand Treasurer is charged with the responsibilityofreporting on the
financial condition of Grand Lodge and its related investments, businesses and
charities at the Annual Communication. This includes the financial statements,
operations and planning for Grand Lodge, as well as for those of the Masonic
Homes of California, the Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund, the California
Masonic Retirement Plan, the California Masonic Foundation, the California
Masonic Memorial Temple, and the Nob Hill Masonic Management, Inc. (please
refer to the opinion letters attached in the annual Proceedings by your auditors).
The reports and comments of the Grand Treasurer are based on the official
examinations and statements of our Certified Pub lie Accountants whose reports are
an integral part of the Grand Treasurer's Report. Their audits cover the years most
recently ended and contain both a complete statement of assets under management
as well as a record of the income and expenses for the period.
As delegates to the Annual Communication, you are, in effect, the
shareholders of Grand Lodge and its entities. You are encouraged, and it is
recommended therefore, that you read and review this report. Your observations
are appreciated. •
Both the Grand Lodge and each of its related entities are in sound
financial condition. The extent and size of our investments, businesses, and most
importantly our charitable activities were financially possible in large measure due
to the generosity of prior generations. To ensure the future of these fine programs,
we must continue our Masonic tradition of financial support.
Respectfully submitted,
Thomas C. Holm, Grand Treasurer

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

TifE MOS fWO RSHI PFlJL GRA ND LODG

E OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF 11IE srATE OF
CALIFORNIA

A.1'JD SUBSIDIARY

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMEN
TS
AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1998
TOG mtER WITH REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT PUBUC ACCOUNTANTS

115

J
116

T PUBLIC AC CO UN TAN

TEMENT OF FINAN CIA L PO SIT ION
CO NS OL IDA TIN G STA
OCTOBER 31, 1998

TS

Gra nd Lodge of Free and
To The Most Worshipful
te of California:
Sta
the
of
s
son
Ma
d
Accepte
itio n of The Most
statement of financial pos
ompanying consolidating
nia (the Gra nd Lodge)
ifor
Cal
of
te
Sta
the
We hav e aud ited the acc
s of
Free and Accepted Mason
of
ge
r 31, 1998, and the
Lod
obe
nd
Oct
of
Gra
l
as
ipfu
ary
Worsh
orgattlzatiQI\) and Subsidi
al
ern
frat
d
rate
dat ed stat eme nt
rpo
soli
nco
con
(a non pro fit, uni
nges in net assets and
ement of activities and cha
les referred to
edu
sch
the
and
nts
eme
related con soli dat ing stat
l stat
ress an
the n end ed. These financia
Ou r responsibility is to exp
of cas h flows for the year
nd Lod ge's ma nag em ent
Gra
the
of
ity
ibil
ons
resp
below are the
bas ed on our aud it.
l statements and sch edu les
opi nio n on these financia
se
aud itin g stan dar ds. Tho
e wit h generally accepted
anc
ut
ord
acc
abo
in
nce
it
ura
aud
ass
our
e
We con duc ted
it to obtain reasonabl
pla n and per form the aud
includes examining,
it
aud
An
ent
em
stan dar ds require tha t we
stat
mis
l
nts. An
ements are free of materia
res in the financial stateme
wh eth er the financial stat
the amo unt s and disclosu
de by
ting
ma
por
es
sup
mat
ce
esti
den
ant
evi
ific
is,
on a test bas
es used and sign
g the acc oun ting principl
on. We believe tha t
tati
sen
pre
nt
eme
aud it also inc lud es assessin
stat
l
luating the overall financia
man age men t, as well as eva
ble basis for our opinion.
ona
reas
a
es
vid
pro
our aud it
eria l respects, the
ve pre sen t fairly, in all mat
l stat eme nts refe rred to abo
ary as of
sidi
Sub
and
ge
Lod
In our opi nio n. the financia
nd
Gra
nges in net
d financial positions of the
of their activities and cha
ind ivid ual and consolidate
and consolidated results
ual
erally
ivid
gen
ind
h
the
wit
and
ity
8,
October 31, 199
then end ed in conform
d cash flows for the yea r
assets and the ir consolidate
ciples.
accepted acc oun ting prin
l stat eme nts tak en
nio n on the basic financia
pur pos e of forming an opi
pur pos es of
for
ted
sen
pre
are
V
to
Our aud it was ma de for the
I
g Sup ple men tal Schedules
yin
Thi s information
pan
om
nts.
acc
eme
The
stat
l
le.
ncia
as a who
uire d par t of the basic fina
req
a
not
ncial statements
are
fina
and
ic
s
bas
lysi
the
add itio nal ana
s app lied in our aud it of
ure
ced
pro
g
itin
ncial
aud
fina
the
ic
has bee n subjected to
ects in relation to the bas
stat ed in all material resp
ly
fair
is
n,
nio
opi
our
in
and ,
le.
stat eme nts tak en as a who

San Francisco, California,
December 21, 1998

117

TH E MO ST WO RS HIP
DG E OF FREE AN D
OF TH E ~L GR AN D LO
AN D SUBSIDIARY
ACCEPTED MA SO NS
ATE OF CA LIF OR NIA

P
ARTHUR ANDERSEN LL

EN
REPORT OF IND EPE ND

OR NIA
GRAND LO DG E OF CA LIF

1

E
PRO CE ED ING S OF TH

Grand Lod8!.

Nob Hill

$1,213,336

$ 257,968
142,;>'91

Eliminatitms

Consolidated

ASSETS

CURRENT ASSETS:
Cas h and equivalents
Accounts receivable
ties
Due from other Masonic enti
Inventory

s

$ l,471,.304

289,039
144,119
449,977

0
201,906

0
0
0
0
0

2.160,537

580,408

0

2.740,945

2,763,973

253,377

(62.500)

2.954,850

329,616

39,205

0

368,821

0

27,000

0

27,000

$5.254,126

$ 899,990

$(62.500)

$ 6,091,616

$ 700, 032
1,816,40 7
8,160
3,635

s 377,870

s

0
0
0
0

s 1,077,902

0
0
0

2,528,234

377,870

0

2,906,104

0

62.500

{62.500)

0

1,991,254
339,667

394,971

459, 620
0
0

0
0
0

2.450,874
339,667
394,971

Total net assets

2.725,892

459, 620

0

3,185,512

Total

$5,254,126

$89 9,99 0

$(62,SOO)

$ 6,091,616

64,066

Pre paid expenses

Total curr ent assets

lNVESI'MENrs, at fair value
ENT, net
PROPERTY AND EQUIPM

OTHER ASSETS
Total
UABILITIES •AND NET

(22,257)

206,8S7

266,782
144,119
651,883

ASSETS

CURRENT UABILITIEs:

ued liabilities
Accounts payable and accr
nue
reve
ita
cap
per
d
Deferre
lication reve nue
~erred Freemason pubton
Memorial Fund
e to George Washing
Total curr ent liabilities

COMMON STOCK

NET ASSETS:

ings
Unrestricted/retained earn
Temporarily restricted
Permanently restricted

The accompanying notes

are an integral par t of thes

e statements.

1,816,407
8,160
3,63 5

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

118

TIIE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF TilE ST ATE OF CALIFORNIA AND SUBSIDIARY
CONSOUDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR TilE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1998

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Increase in net assets
Adjustments to reconcile increase in net assets to net ca.sh used in operating
activities:
Depreciation and ainortization
Gain on investments
Oianges in ~ and liabilities:
Accounts receivable
Due from other Masonic entities
Inventory
Prepaid expenses and other assets
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Deferred per capita revenue
Deferred Freemason Publication revenue

DuetoGeorgeWaahingtonMemorialF~d
Net cash provided by operating activities

CASH FLDWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

Purchaaes of investments
Sales of investments
Purchaaes of property and equipment
Net cash used in investing activities

DECREASE IN CASH AND EQUIVALENTS
CASH AND EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR
CASH AND EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR
SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Income taxes paid

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

s 343,047
63.360

356,564

107,533
(7,209)

(406)

(2.133.238)
1,041,422
118,280

~

Q

iii

z

.. z

~!

Q

... <
... <

< -

0 :;f
IS~
~~
o......
0.. z
-

<
z"' ~g
>
:O
i: 8!
Q

t.l

e

... <
I;;

< z

=
?! ~~
l:i = .. =
""
i~ .....
... .
< ..
::E

I;; z
0

i

::E <
.. ::E

Iii

t.l

..... ~

:c
Ii:

2,015,921

"'

0
:I

"'"'< z
0

s 154,000

00000

0

~~ ~"'
I:! Q "'

(544,617)

$1,471.30'

Q

~

.. i

(973,536)

OOQOO

<
I;;

Q

428,919

0

..,.. "'"'"'

(46,9'34)
20,667
(200,151)
10,068
(217,620)

ooeoo

a

119

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIP FUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORN IA AND SUBSIDIARY

-2-

120

NOTES TO CONSOLID ATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OCTOBER 31, 1998

121

cost .
~ost basis. Adiw'.ted cost is the market value of the security at the beginning of the year, or the
of
if purchased dunng the year. Investment income includes interest and dividend revenue
31, 1998.
$162,976 and net realized and unrealized gains of $46,934 for the year ended October
Property and Equipment

1. ORGANIZ ATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICA NT ACCOUNT ING POLICIES:

Property and equipment, including leasehold improveme nts, are recorded at cost and are
years.
depreciated using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives of three to twenty-five

Organiutio n

Collections

(the
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
a
by
governed
is
and
n
organizatio
fraternal
ated
unincorpor
nonprofit
a
is
Grand Lodge)
of the
constitution and ordinances setting forth its jurisdiction and authority. The jurisdiction
of lodges
Grand Lodge includes all lodges and Masons within the state of California, and members
for-profit
a
Hill),
(Nob
Inc.
nt,
Manageme
Masonic
Hill
Nob
residing.
wherever
of California,
the
California corporation, is the wholly owned subsidiary of the Grand Lodge. Nob Hill operates
hall and
California Masonic Memorial Temple (the Temple) auditorium , parking garage, exhibit
various rental properties under the terms of an operating lease with the Temple.

The Grand Lodge owns a collection of jewelry and other objects, most of which have historical
are
si.gnilicanc_e. The jewelry collection is used in Lodge ceremonies, and the other objects
display~d m the Temple Museum. Purchases of collection items are reflected as decreases in
not
unresu:icted net assets in the year in which the items are acquired. The Grand Lodge does
rec~~e these assets as contributio ns as they are protected and preserved, held for public
exhib1~~ and are subject to an organizational policy that requires proceeds from the sale of
s during
collection items to be used to acquire other collection items. Accessions and deaccession
1998 were not significant.

Masonic
The Grand Lodge provides general and administrat ive services to its related entities: the
(the
Foundation
Masonic
California
the
Temple;
the
Homes);
(Masonic
Homes of California
Pooled
Foundation); the California Masonic Retirement Plan; Nob Hill; and the Masonic Homes
related
Income Fund (collectively, the Masonic Exltities). These services are reimbursed by the
entity.
Principles of Consolidat ion
The financial statements include the accounts of the Grand Lodge and its wholly owned
the other
subsidiary. All material intercompa ny amounts have been eliminated. The accounts of
the
Masonic Exitities have not been included in the Grand Lodge's financial statements because
entities.
related
such
in
interest
economic
an
and
control
both
have
not
does
Grand Lodge
Tax-Exempt Status
The Grand Lodge has been granted tax-exempt status for both federal income and California
franchise tax purposes. Nob Hill income taxes are accounted for under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, "Accountin g for Income Taxes."
Inventory
Inventory is stated at cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Investment s
Gains
Investment s in marketable securities are stated at fair value based on quoted market prices.
occur.
or losses that result from market fluctuations are recognized in the period such fluctuations
an adjusted
Realized gains or losses resulting from sales or maturities of securities are calculated on

Deferred Per Capita Revenue
until
Dues received for the subsequent fiscal year are recorded as deferred per capita revenue
assessed
earned. Included in deferred per capita revenue at October 31, 1998, is $96,773, which was
Grand
the
for
campaign
relations
public
l
professiona
a
of
purpose
the
for
solely
and will be used
•
Lodge.
Unrestricte d Net Assets
Uru:estricted net assets are available to support all activities of the Grand Lodge, including
designated by the Grand Lodge as follows:

amounts

• The Grand Lodge Endowmen t Fund (the Endowmen t Fund) was established at the Grand
Lodge's October 1993 Annual Communic ation. If in any fiscal year there is an excess of
t
support and revenues over expenses, as defined, the excess shall be added to the Exidowmen
Fund if the cumulative excess exceeds $700,000. For the year ended October 31, 1998, the
excess added to the Exldowment Fund was $265,132 resulting in an ending balance of
$1.544,799.

fund
• The 150 Yearbook Fund, which had a balance of $114,525 as of October 31, 1998. This
expected to be used in 1999 to defray the costs of commemor ative items.

is

Temporari ly Restricted Net Assets

Tempor~y restricte_d net '.'5sets repr_e sent co~tributions whose use by the Grand Lodge is limited
and
by donor-1mposed stipulations that either expire with the passage of time or can be fulfilled
.
stipulations
those
to
pursuant
Lodge
Grand
the
removed by

GRAND LODG E OF CALIF ORNI A

PROC EEDf NGSO FTHE

122

123

-4-

-3-

3. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:

Pmm nmtly Restri cted Net Assets

by the donor for invest ment in perpet uity, the
Perma nently restric ted net assets are restric ted
for schola rship purpo ses to the Califo rnia
grants
e
incom e from which is available to provid
Mason ic Found ation MacKechnie Fund.

Revenue Recognition
assets as restricted suppo rt if such gifts are
The Grand Lodge report s gifts of cash and other
of the donate d assets. When a donor restric tion
use
the
limit
received with donor stipula tions that
ends or a purpo se restric tion is accom plishe d,
expires, that is, when a stipula ted time restriction
unrest ricted net assets and report ed as net assets
to
ified
reclass
are
assets
net
ted
tempo rarily restric
utions are report ed as tempo rarily
contrib
ted
restric
release d from restriction. Tempo rarily
during the period when the restric tion is
tions
restric
restric ted suppo rt and net assets release d from
d.
receive
is
bution
contri
the
as
met in the same period
Functio~ Expense Allocations

traveL person nel and occup ancy costs,

es,
Expenses, such as depreciation and amorti zation . suppli
l and admin istrati ve expen se classifications based
are alloca ted among program services and genera
on emplo yee ratios and estimates made by the

Grand Lodge 's manag ement .

ing at Octob er 31, 1998:
Proper ty and equipm ent are compo sed of the follow
$210,6 82
Furnit ure, fixtures and operat ing equipm ent
150,086
Leasehold impro vemen ts
417,188
Data processing equipm ent
777,956

Less: Accum ulated depreciation

(409,135)

Total

$368,821

S AND
4. TEMP ORAR ILY RESTRICTED NET ASSET
NS:
NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIO
for the following purpo ses as of October 31, 1998:
Tempo rarily restricted net assets are available
$105,8 78
To be used for the 1999 Rose Parade float
78,246
To be used to provid e disaste r relief assistance
progra ms
150,543
To be used for future Rose Parade floats or youth
5,000
To be used for public relations
Total tempo rarily restricted net assets

Use of Estima tes
mity with genera lly accept ed accoun ting
The prepar ation of financial statem ents in confor
and assum ptions . These estima tes and
tes
estima
make
to
princi ples requir es manag ement
liabilities and disclo sure of contin gent assets
and
assets
assum ptions affect the report ed amoun ts of
ents and the report ed amoun ts of revenu e and
and liabilities at the date of the financial statem
could differ from those estimates.
results
l
Actua
.
period
ing
expen ses during the report

2.. INVES TMEN TS:
Invest ments are compo sed of the follow ing at

October 31, 1998:

ted
by incuni ng expen diture s satisfying the restric
Net assets were rele~ from donor restrictions
s during the year ended
follow
as
donors
by
ed
specifi
events
other
of
purposes or by occurrence
October 31, 1998:
Used for the 1998 Rose Parade float
rnia
Used for schola rship award s through the Califo
Mason ic Found ation MacKechnie Fund
Used to provid e disaste r relief assistance

Estimatrd

Total net assets released from restric tions

Fllir Value
Equity mutua l funds
US. govern ment obligations

$1,574,722

Total

$2.954,850

1,380,128

$339,6 67

$111.2 12

29,122
5,000
$145,3 34

5. RELATED PARTIES:
it
istrativ e suppo rt to the Masonic Entities for which
!he ~rand lodge provid es genera l and admin
e expen ses
istrativ
admin
and
l
genera
to
15
offset
an
as
ed
reunbu rsed. The reimb ursem ent is record
an
ines the amoun t to be alloca ted to the entitie s on
for the Grand Lodge. The Grand lodge determ

124

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-5-

-6-

annual basis, subject to the approval of the boards of trustees of the Masonic Entities. Expenses
allocated to the Masonic Entities in 1998 were as follows:
$528,419
14,718
37,795

Masonic Homes
Temple
Foundation

$580,932

Total

In addition, $45,448 was allocated to Nob Hill and has been eliminated in consolidation.

On June 30, 1998, Nob Hill (the lessee) and the Temple (the lessor) entered into an operating lease,
expiring June 30, 2003, of the Temple auditorium. exhibit hall parking garage and various rental
properties. Under the terms of the lease, Nob Hill is required to pay ren~ equal to 90 percent of the
gross rental revenues in excess of a base amount of $860,000 per year, ad1usted ~y for
inflation. until Nob Hill has paid $240,000, after which the payment shall be one-third of the
remaining gross rental revenues. Beginning in 1998, the aggregate rent calculated under this
formula is subject to a limit that increases with inflation. For the year ended October 31, 1998, lease
expense totaled $400,000.

6. INCOME TAXES:
The provision for 1998 income taxes for Nob Hill, which is based on statutory rates,~ ~n:~·. The
tax effect of temporary differences between the financial statements and tax returns JS lllSlgnificant.

125

The following sets forth the funded status of the Plan and the prepaid pension cost at October 31,
1998:

Actuarial present value of benefit obligations:
Vested benefits
Nonvested benefits

$12,416,819

Accumulated benefit obligation

$12,711,241

Fair value of assets held in Plan
Projected benefit obligation

$13,369,110
13,567,462

Shortfall of Plan assets over projected benefit
obligation
Net unrecognized gain from past experience
different than assumed
Unrecognized prior service cost
Unamortized liability at transition
Prepaid pension cost

294,422

(198,352)
340,487

228,m
674,038

$ 1,044,945

The weighted average discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation is 7 percent,
the rate of increase in future compensation levels is 4 percent, and the expected long-term rate of
return on assets is 8 percent. The employers use the straight-line method of amortization for prior
service cost and unrecognized gains and losses.

7. PENSION PLAN:
The Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes, the Temple and Nob Hill sponsor a defined benefit pension
plan (the Plan) that covers all employees. Benefits are to be paid to eligible employees at
retirement based primarily upon years of service and compensation levels near retirement.
Contributions to the Plan reflect benefits attributed to employees' services to date, as well as
services expected to be provided in the future. Plan assets consist primarily of common and
preferred stock, investment-grade corporate bonds and US. government obligations.
Pension expense of the Plan for the year ended October 31, 1998, includes the following
components:
Service cost of the current period
Interest cost on the projected benefit obligation
Actual return on assets held in the Plan
Net amortization of prior service cost, transition
liability and net gain

$

Pension expense for all Masonic entities

$

665,797
820,365

(173,603)
(735,256)
577,303

Pension expense that the Grand Lodge and Nob Hill charged to operations in 1998 was $37,965 and
$38,348, respectively.

The prepaid pension cost has been allocated to the four contributing employers. The amount
recognized by the Grand Lodge as of October 31, 1998, was $182.025. The amount recognized by
Nob Hill is an accrued pension cost of $13,512

126

PROCEED INGS OF THE

;;;

;~ ~1 ~
i"
~
~cl! i~ ...

..

""

..J

::J

c
:r
"'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

;:;

....

0

~Q

0

~o

::l

..J

~

! ...~

"'::i:
"'
&:
..J

•
h
~~

::J

"'
l

-~

~

,..

.

':!

<

i5

~

~
<"'

Q

z ;;i

"'Q

"'
"'z
~ < t:i !
... <

~ ~

0 "'z
t:i ~
g~ z Ill
0
..J

..J

Q~

z ...

..~ 9
Q

0

i

-1

\.l ....
..J

<

-"' "' ... "'"'
00

3:
.... "'z

"'0
0"'
~

<

j::

t

"'~
- Q

"'uu

<

~

0

Jl ...
~
!ill~

0

~o

0

~~
"!.-.

...

;!;

~-

...

0

...~

;;;;,;

.

::..

~

~·

~

!!f.

§

0

~

~-

...

$ 16.77
(1.25)

$ 1,706,113
(127,170)

Net lodge per capita support

$ 15.52

1,.578,943
2,762
(335)

"!.

;!:

Net support of Grand Lodge activities, dues

;;;

0

0

IN SUPPORT OF OTHER ORGANIZATIONS:
Gross contributio ns from lodges
Less: Contributio ns for:
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
George Washington Masonic Memorial Association

~
~

0

~

0

;;;-

~

~

"

~

::..

l!i.

~
"!.

~

...

,,i
0

z

"',..<
"'...

IN SUPPORT OF 1998 GRAND LODGE ACTIVITIF.5:
Gross per capita support from lodges
Allocated to California Freemason

Degree conferred
Per capita adjustment s

l!l

0

...

i~ ;i;<'\
~g ~
"'

...

Per Orpita and
Total Per
Degree Fees
Annual Returns

~

0

~

~

ANNUAL RETURNS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1998

>D

0

~ ;ll

"
~

Total per capita support

1,.581,370

$ 39.00

49,297

(25.00)
(9.00)
(5.00)

(33,225)
(10,332)
(5,740)

0.00

$ 1,581,370

$

'a

;,

~
~

0

~

z\.l
zz
~

;:
~4

a

~ ..,..,.. ]....0
<

e

e
.,g

_g

l

]
~
"B ~

lc:.. i

"'

~-

z

THE MOST WORSHIP FUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORN IA AND SUBSIDIA RY

:£

~~

;!;

!;;

0

~~

"'

8~

;i;

"1

.. ...~

li

0

;,;

;:;

"

a... ~ ~

• ..,"
l H

0

~...

~
;!!' ;;;
"'

~

0

0

~o

Si

:i: ...

"

~

!!!.

~

~...

;,;

.., ..,

.n
0

..,

&
0

0

§0

"1

i-~~
;::

u

::l

~

;!;

\.l j::

z"'
<o

00

00

>D

~

Q

2 Iii 0"'
!':iii ....~ uz"'<,..

iii

~

0

~~ i

..J"'

0

!::

...

! ...
~~

"I

?J

0

c
.. "' e"'z
z"'
< 0

0

..,i·
...

&

&{

SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDUL E H

.::

0

127

.l

~.ll

-~

-~

c

1
.B

"'<
~~ "',.....
0
t
!

i

~

.!!

~
,::

Q

z

"'
~
~
!;;

z

=

~

~

-5

Note: As of July 1, 1997, there were 104,567 Master Masons in good standing. Of this total,
2,831 were exempt from the per capita tax because of remissions of dues by the Lodges,
leaving 101,736 subject to the per capita tax.

128

129

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE N

SUPPLEMENT AL SCHEDULE III

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE ST ATE OF CALIFORNIA AND SUBSIDIARY
PROGRAM APPROPRIATIONS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1998

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA AND SUBSIDIARY
FRATERNAL EXPENSES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1998

Property and liability insurance
Annual communication
Elected officers' expense
Appointed officers' expense
Inspector's expense
Ritual committee
Representatives' mileage
Grand Master's travel
Out-of-state conference
Group travel insurance
Cornerstone reimbursement
Fraternal relations
PGMmeeting
Grand Lodge Regalia

$136,340
199,427
54,256
74,634
25,342
40,927
19,187
20,636
26,813
3,640
4,427
6,000
5,163
4,490

Total

$621,282

California Masonic Forum
Candidate Education
Charters Committee
Community Relations
Credentials Committee
Executive Committee
Finance Committee
Friend to Friend
Grand Lodge Week activities
Inspector's Administration and Orientation
Insurance Committee
Investment
Jurisprudence Committee
Lodge Resources and Development
Lodge Services Committee
Masonic Education
Masonic History
Masdnic Renewal Task Force
Masonic Service Association
Masonic Service Bureau
Masonic Widows Program
Memorial Service
Officers' Administrative Seminars
Policy and General Purpose
Public Schools Committee
Sojourners
Temple Properties and Taxation
Rose Parade Committee
Rose Parade
Trial Review
U.S. Constitution Observance
Warden's Retreat
Youth Orders Committee

$

469
24
64
6,990
444
1,916
1,004
12,942
3,185
1,404
1,278
2,799
1,922
1,964
2,315
20
1,454
7,448
817
3,840
733
8
9,661
4,881
632
250
1,109
1,121
111,212
1,711
744
134,163
7,735

Total
Less: Program service revenue and contributions:
Warden's Retreat receipts
Rose Parade revenues
Sale of school supplies

(134,172)
(111,212)
(1,199)

Total program service revenue and contributions

(246,583)

PROGRAM APPROPRIATIONS, net

326,259

$

79,676

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

130

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE V

ARIBUR ANDERSEN LLP

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA AND SUBSIDIARY
CONSOLIDATED GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1998

Salaries and benefits
Expenses allocated to other Masonic entities
Accounting and audit fees
Bank service charges
Oeaning service
Computer software
Consultation and professional fees
Depreciation and amortization
Dues
Equipment rental/leases
Express mail and postage
Facility rent
Golden veterans awards
Lodge supplies
Minor office equipment
Miscellaneous

Office equipment maintenance
Office supplies
Other insurance
Other operating supplies
Other outside services
Other personnel expenses
Printing and duplication
Secretaries workshops
Taxes
Telephone
Travel
Vehicle expense
Total
Add: Expenses allocated to wholly owned subsidiary
Less: Facility rent paid to related party
Total
Less: Lodge supplies sales
Total

$ 896,586

(626.380)
22.200
2,205
11,556
12,171
13,088
57,738
4,563

11,531
48,063
26,500
17,331
117.238
5,133
17,133
13,564
43,190
7,657
2,366

13,559
70,702
30,154
6,835
4.282
50,472
12,592
4.269
896,298
45,448
(26,500)
915,246
(97,504)
$ 817,742

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
FINANOAL STATEMENTS
AS OF JUNE 30, 1998AND1997
TOGETiiER WI1H REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT PUBUC ACCOUNTANTS

131

132

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

133

AKrHUR ANDERSEN LLP

REPORT OF INDEPENDE NT PUBLIC ACCOUNT ANTS

To the Board of Trustees of
Masonic Homes of California:
We have audited the accompanyin g statements of financial position of Masonic Homes of
California (a California nonprofit corporation) as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the related
statements of activities and changes in net assets and of cash flows for the years then ended. These
financial statements are the responsibility of Masonic Homes of California management Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining.
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management . as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion. the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Masonic Homes of California as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the results of its
activities and changes in net assets and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.
Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements
taken as a whole. Supplementa ry fund information included in the accompanyin g statements of
financial position and statements of activities and changes in net assets is presented for purposes of
additional analysis and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. This information
has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audits of the basic financial
statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.

San Francisco, California,
September 4, 1998

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

~ 0

...

"l.

00

-....,

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

~

STATEMENTS OF ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998 AND 199'7

Gmeralo1UI

l'mnannrl

Urtion Cily

~FIDfll

~1Fwn4

FKn4

1997

11..-

T,...,Fwlltb

Tolll/

Tolll/

UNRESTIUCTED
SUPPORT:
Contribulimll - - duollgh lodge
Contribulimll from Tho Moot Worshipful Grond Lodge of Free ond Accepted
MuoN ol the Slam ol c.JifomU and individuals
Beq-a ond llWlllDriola

s

33,442

s

s

0

0

s

0

s

33.442

s

32.m

657,837
1,453,034

0
0

0
1,113,910

0
0

657,837
2.566,944

21,519
2.898,274

2.1'4,313

0

1,113,910

0

3.258.223

2.952.S70

1.lM.913
3.o52.853
9,921,162
9,1112.497
78,432
956.1188

0
0
0
0
0
0

0
0
1.160.638
1.116,188
0
0

0
0
9,563
0
0
0

1.284,913
3,()52.853
11,()91,363
10,128,685
78,432
956.1188

2.284,172
3.290.083
H.312.50'7
6.362.223
125,016
800.739

24.306.00S

0

2.276.826

9,563

26,592.39t

27,17"740

NlIT ASSETS Rl!LEASliD FROM RESTRICTlONS

:Z.S70tm

23.205.625

0

92.335

25,868,037

24,713,179

0..,,

TRANSFERS BETWEEN FUNDS

llMl.612

(18.461.612)

0

0

0

0

-l

47,482.007

4,744,1113

3,390,736

101.898

55,718,654

54,840,489

21,517,697
870,135
0

0
0
0

0
0
0

0
0
92.335

21.517,697
870,135

92.335

18,864,961
689,318
97,313
19,651.592

Total oupport

""C

REVENUE:

_ _ lrom_pod_
Amounll received from pcwiorlo ulignod by n!Sidents
~-oldefend

Investment income

Netpincmalool~
OllmSTotal....,_

EXPENSES:
Plopn:
Oplntlan ol MIMlllic HOllW
Naanoidmt~

Scholanhip
Total progr.m.._

22.387,832

0

0

92.335

22.480,167

Supporting- oduUnistzation

3.387.870

0

176,363

0

3,564.233

5.238.732

Totalexi--

25,775,702

0

176,363

26.044,400

24.890.324

21.706.305

4.744,1113

3.214.373

92.335
9,563

29,674,254

29,950.165

INCREASE IN NE1' UNREAUZED Al'PREOATION IN FAIR VALlIB OF
INVESTMENTS
~ in unrestricted Mt assets

24.736.486

0

3.219.803

21.418

'D,977,707

38,556.401

46,442.791

4,744,013

6,434,176

30,981

57,651,961

68.506.566

Toflrl

1997
Tolll/

:;.:i

?5
m
m
0

z

0

Vl

~

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENTS OF ACTIVl'JTES AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1991AND199'7
(continued)

TEMPORAJULY llESl1UCTED

SUPPORT:
Conlribulimls &mn Tho Molt Wonhipful Gnnd Lodge of Frw and A<apted
MuoN of the Slam o1 Califomla Ind individuals
llequats and memorials
Total oupport

Ge>wnll lllld

l'mnanntt

E.a1/lquolot """"

Eiuloronomt Fwn4

.s

98,994
2.471,083

0
0

2.570Jm

TRANSFER FROM l'ERMANENTLY RESnUCn!D NET ASSETS

NI-

NET ASSETS REI.EASED FROM RESTRICTIONS

~In 1m1pOnri1y netridlld

s

UllionCily
FllJlll

TrutfinuU

s

0
0

s 351,046 s
0

450,040
2.471.aBJ

s 1.194.793

0

351,046

2.921,123

8,185,267

0

RalridJld

Total 111pport

28.586,709

0

1.924.851

30,511,560

30,281,068

(Zl.205.625)

0

(92.335)

('25M8.D31}

(24713,179)

0

5.381,o84

0

2.183.562

7,564.646

13.753,156

0
t""
0

m
0
..,,

~--

Total_,,.
Total oapportlnd--

INCREASl! IN NET UNREALIZED APPRECIATION IN FAIR VALUE
OF INVESl"MENls
TRANSFER 10 TEMPORARILY RESTIUCI'ED NET ASSETS
~inpemumendy...-..i-

INCREASE IN NE!' ASSETS

~

8

0

l.OOS,781

0

0

1.00S.781

l,032,S20

0
0

18.810

2.267,m

0
0

0
19,893

3,29!1,364

0

19,893

18,810
2.287.666
3,315.257

6,401
2,.103,325

0

3,7'2,246

r>

0
0

5,738,1110
12,.894,215

0
0

218,599
108,945

5,956.609
13.000,160

6,339.()74
15.319.861

0

REVENUE:
Netpincmaleol-

0

0
(2.5711.1177)

l'ERMANENI1.y llESl1UCTED

SUPPORT:
Conlribo&tiono . - - ! &om lodaConlribo&tlollo &om Tho Molt Wonhlplul Gnnd Lodge of me ond Accepted
MuoN ol the Slam o1 Califomla ond individuals
llequats and memorials

6,990,474

:;;

0

18.632,.225

0

327,544

18,959,769

2l,61i8,935

0

21,927,589

0

347,437

22,275,()26

25,401.181

0

9,954,484

0

1,597,3111

11.551.791

9,350,131

0

(21.5116)'119)

0

(1.924.851)

(30.511.560)

(30.281.Q68)

0

3,29!1,364

0

19,893

3,315,257

4.470.244

46.442.191

13,420,461

6,434,176

2.234.436

68.531.864

86.729,966

NE1' ASS£1'5 AT BEG!NN!NG OF YEAR

357.859.638

167,29!1,612

39.109,710

NE1' ASSETS AT END OF YEAR

13,837,924

578,102,884

491.372.918

$404.302.429

Sll!0,716,()73

545,543.886

516.()72.360

5646.634,748

5578,102,884

Tho aa:ompu1ying nom an on inlRgral part ol these .-.nen11.

('}

-

~

;:;:;
VI

136

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

OPERATING ACI1VITIES:
Increase in net assets
Adjustments to reconcile increase in net assets to net cash provided by
operating activities:
Increase in net unrealized appreciation in fair value of investments
Net gain on sale of investments
Amortization of deferred revenue from assigned assets
Net proceeds from assigned assets
Depreciation
Contributions received restricted for investment in perpetuity
Changes in assets and liabilities:
Receivables
Receivables: related entities
Assets held for resale
Assets related to split-interest agreements
Other assets
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Deferred revenue from pooled income fund
Liability to beneficiaries of split-interest agreements

JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

1998

1997

$ 68,531,684

$ 86,729,966

1. ORGANIZATI ON AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
Organization

(39,529,498)
(24,094,523)
(1,284,973)
1,780,639
2,864,104
(3,315,257)

(30,329,722)
(39,258,894)
(2.284.172)
1.152.658
2,500,297
(3,742.246)

190,237
(181,361)
(381,043)
(1,902.885)
315,963
(1,486,097)
162.239
578,770

2.341,187
43,969
244,849
(1,029,960)
173,712
1,867,944
526,201
(1,212.646)

2.247,999

17,723,143

(8,281,127)
(298,861,118)
298,635,572

(5,464,554)
(380,030,069)
368.018,374

(8,506,673)

(17,476,249)

Net cash provided by operating activities

1NVES11NG ACI1VITIES:
Purchases of property and equipment
Purchases of investments
Proceeds from sale of investments
Net cash used in investing activities
FINANCING ACI1VITIES: Contributions received restricted for investment

in perpetuity

Masonic Homes of California (Masonic Homes), a California nonprofit corporation, administers a
home for adults at Union City, California, and a home for adults and children at Covina, California.
The homes are supported by The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the state of
California (the Grand Lodge) and members of the Masonic Fraternity in California.
The adult residents who enter Masonic Homes are required by a life-care agreement to assign all of
their assets to Masonic Homes in exchange for continuing care for the remainder of the their lives.
In the event that a continuing care contract is canceled by the resident through withdrawal within
the first 90 days of residency, the resident is entitled to a pro rata refund of all his or her assigned
assets. No assigned assets were subject to refund at June 30, 1998 and 1997.
Masonic Homes is subject to statutory reserve requirements. At June 30, 1998 and 1997, Masonic
Homes' reserves as calculated in accordance with Continuing Care Contract Statutes of the
California Health and Safety Code were in excess of such requirements.
Masonic Homes annually calculates the present value of the net cost of future services and the use
of facilities to be provided to current residents and compares that amount with the present value of
related anticipated cash inflows. II the present value of the net cost of future services and the use
of facilities exceeds the present value of related anticipated cash inflows, a liability is recorded with
a corresponding charge to income. Masonic Homes has determined, using a discount rate of
6 percent, that no accrual for the obligation to provide future services and use of facilities to current
residents was required at June 30, 1998 and 1997.
TilX-Exempt Status
Masonic Homes is a nonprofit corporation as described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code and has been granted tax-exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service and the California
Franchise Tax Board.

3,315,257

3,742.246

NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND EQUIVALENTS

(2,943,417)

3,989,140

Basis of Presentation

CASH AND EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR

5,526,976

1,537,836

Masonic Homes reports information regarding its net assets and activities according to three
classes of net assets: unrestricted, temporarily restricted and permanently restricted.

CASH AND EQUIVALENI'S AT END OF YEAR

137

$

2.583,559

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

$

5,526,976

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-2-

The assets, liabilities and net assets of Masonic Homes are presented in the accompanying
statement of financial position as follows:

•

•

General and Uirthquake Funds- Resources are available to support the operations of the
homes at Union City and Covina, California. The net assets of the general fund are
primarily unrestricted.
Pmnanent Endowmmt fund-Ordinances of the Grand Lodge provide that no portion of
the principal of the Permanent Endowment Fund shall be expended for any purpose, and
income from the principal shall be used only for the maintenance and general operation of
Masonic Homes. Therefore, the historical dollar value of contributions made to the
Permanent Endowment Fund are permanently restricted, while the accumulated
investment earnings and net market appreciation are temporarily restricted until the
associated donor restriction on use has been satisfied.

•

purposes.
•

-3in the ~od in w~~ such fluctuations occur. Realized gains or losses resulting from sales or
maturities of secunties are calculated on an adjusted-cost basis. Adjusted cost is the market value
of the security at the beginning of the year or the cost if purchased during the year.
Assets Held for Sale
Assets held. for sale consist primarily of tangible property received from residents, including real
estate, that IS held for sale. Assets are recorded at appraised value on date of assignment.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on the straight-line method over
the following estimated lives:
Buildings and improvements
Equipment
Furniture and fixtures
Vehicles

Union City fund-The Union City Fund provides for the operation, rehabilitation.

preservation and betterment of the home at Union City, as deemed necessary. The Union
City Fund was established with bequests from the estates of Hugo M. Lorber and
Florence V. Grider, which provided that the amounts be used for the home for adults at
Union City, California. Because the purpose restrictions related to the principal of the
bequests have been met and no donor restrictions were placed on the investment earnings
and net market appreciation from the principal. the net assets of the Union City Fund are
unrestricted. The net assets of this fund have been designated by the Board for construction

Restricted Trust Funds- Restricted Trust Funds include bequests made for various
restricted purposes and various irrevocable trusts of which Masonic Homes is the trustee.
The historic dollar value of bequests is permanently restricted for investment in perpetuity,
while the earnings &om the bequests are either restricted for scholarship purposes or
available for unrestricted use. Masonic Homes' interest in the irrevocable trusts is restricted
as to time. Once received, the contribution is temporarily restricted or unrestricted
according to the donor stipulations.

Cash and Equivalents
Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or
less. Cash and equivalents, for purpose of the statement of cash flows, include unrestricted and
restricted cash.
Restricted cash includes residents' accounts at Union City and Covina, which comprise
unexpended portions of monthly allowances made to residents and a construction retainer account
related to the construction at the home for adults at Union City, California. For the residents'
accounts, a corresponding liability for such agency funds is included in accounts payable and
accrued liabilities.

139

5-SOyears
3-25
5-20
2- 7

Other Assets
?tber assets~~ primarily of notes receivable, resident-assigned assets awaiting liquidation. life
msurance policies on residents, and fine art at the two homes.
Other assigned assets are recorded at fair market value on the date of assignment. Fine art is
recorded at appraised value at the date of donation.
Deferred Revmue from Pooled Income Fund
Deferred revenue from pooled income fund represents the discount for future investment earnings
on Masonic Homes' remainder interest in the Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund (the Pooled
Income F~) (see ~ote 4). ~.Homes has determined the amount deferred using investment
re~ ~onsJStent with the comp051tion of asset portfolios, single or joint life expectancy from IRS
Publication 1457 tables, and discount rates of 7 and 8 percent at June 30, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.
Liability to Beneficiary of Split-Interest Agreements
Liability to beneficiaries of split-interest agreements represents the income beneficiaries' interest ·

~~~table remainder trusts of which Masonic Homes is the trusb!e (see Note 4). The

Ill

~bility IS cal~~ as the present value of the estimated future cash flows to be distributed to the
lllCOme beneficanes over their expected lives. Masonic Homes has determined the amount of the

~bill~ using inv~tment returns consistent with the composition of the asset portfolios, single or
JOlllt life expectancies from IRS Publication 1457, Table S, or IRS Publication 1458 Table D as
applicable, and discount rates of 7 and 8 percent at June 30, 1998 and 1997, ~vely. '

Investments
Investments in debt and equity securities are stated at estimated fair market value based on quoted
market prices. Investments received through gifts are recorded at estimated fair market value at
the date of donation. Unrealized gains or losses that result from market fluctuations are recorded

Deferred Revenue from Assigned Assets
The f~ ~ket val~e ~f real and personal property assigned to Masonic Homes by residents
enb!ring lllto a continumg care contract is deferred and amortized over the actuarially determined

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-4-

-5-

individual or joint and last survivor life expectancy (using the straight-line method based on the
State of California Department of Social Services life expectancy table), with any unamortized
balance recognized as income upon death of the individual or last survivor.
Temporarily Restricted Net Assets
Temporarily restricted net assets represent contributions whose use by Masonic Homes is limited
by donor-imposed stipulations that either expire with the passage of time or can be fulfilled and
removed by actions of Masonic Homes pursuant to those stipulations (see Note 5).
Permanently Restricted Net Assets
Permanently restricted net assets are restricted by the donor for investment in perpetuity (see
Note6).

141

2. INVESTMENTS:

Investments are presented at fair value and consist of corporate stocks, money market accounts and
mutual funds that invest in a diversified portfolio of fixed income securities of varying maturities
with a portfolio duration of three to six years. Investments by type at June 30, 1998 and 1997, were
as follows:

Corporate stocks
Mutual funds
Money market accounts
Total investments

1998

1997

$192,676,741
386,262.492
5.547.527

$118.803,861
392.191,962
9,640,602

$584,486,760

$520,636,425

Revenue Recognition

3. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:

Contributions are recognized as revenue when received or unconditionally promised.

Property and equipment consisted of the following at June 30, 1998 and 1997:

Masonic Homes reports gifts of cash and other assets as restricted support if such gifts are received
with donor stipulations that limit the use of the donated assets. When a donor restriction expires,
that is, when a stipulated time restriction ends or a purpose restriction is accomplished,
temporarily restricted net assets are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and are reported as net
assets released from restrictions.
Resident retirement benefits that are assigned to Masonic Homes are recognized over the life of the
resident
Functional Expense Allocations

Land and improvements
Buildings and equipment
Furniture and equipment
Construction in progress
• Total property and equipment

Less: Accumulated depreciation
Property and equipment. net

1998

1997

$ 6,260,865
76,24.3,041
4.182.098
1,100,874

$ 6,146,715
67,413,706
3,813,821
2.366,705

87,786,878

79,740,947

(33,697,155)

(31,067,659)

$ 54,089,723

$ 48,673,288

Expenses, such as depreciation. supplies, personnel and occupancy costs, are allocated among
program services and supporting services classifications on the basis of time records and on
estimates made by Masonic Homes' management

4. ASSETS RELATED TO SPLIT-INTEREST AGREEMENTS:

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Assets related to split-interest agreements consisted of the following at June 30, 1998 and 1997:

The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value because of the short
maturity of those instruments. The carrying amounts of the accounts receivable and payable
approximate their values. The carrying value of investments and assets related to split-interest
agreements approximates fair value because investments and assets related to split-interest
agreements are carried at estimated fair value.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

1998
Contributions receivable from split-interest
agreements
Assets of Pooled Income Fund
Assets of split-interest agreements
Beneficial interests in perpetual trusts
Total assets related to split-interest
agreements

$ 1,470,138

1997

3,636,868
3,773,152

907,617
5,857,920
2.393,714
3,626,706

$14,688,842

$12,785,957

5,808,684

$

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-6-

-7-

Contribution s Receivable from Split-Interes t Agreemmts
Contribution s receivable from split-interest agreements represent the estimated net present value
of Masonic Homes' interest in various irrevocable trusts held by third-party trustees. The net
present value of these receivables was determined using investment returns consistent with the
composition of the asset portfolios, single or joint life expectancies from IRS Publication 1457,
Table S, or IRS Publication 1458, Table D, as applicable, and a discount rate of 7 percent Such
receivables are expected to be collected in fiscal years beginning after June 30, 2002.
Assets of Pooled Income Fund
Assets of the Pooled Income Fund represent the fair value of assets held in the Pooled Income
Fund, which was organized in 1974 as a charitable remainder trust to which donors contribute
irrevocable remainder interests in property while retaining an income interest for life for one or
more beneficiaries. All dividend and interest income of the Pooled Income Fund is distributed
quarterly to the beneficiaries, based on their proportionate share of the Pooled Income Fund. Upon
the death of each donor's last income beneficiary, the remainder interest becomes available for

=
·

Net assets were released from donor restrictions by ·
purposes or by occurrence of other events specified

Used for scholarship awards
Total net assets released from restrictions

.

·

~=tisfying the restricted

Use in the activities of Masonic Homes
· City
Use in the activities of the home for adults in uruon
'
California
in
children
for
home
the
of
activities
the
Use in
•w-,
California
__
C...,.
Use in the activities of the home for adults in v•w ...,
California

Co'"-·

143

1998

1997

$23,205,626

$16,918,120

1,760.302

4,543,414

809,774

2.485,742

0

92.335

683,876
82.027

$25,868,037

$24,713,179

Masonic Homes' unrestricted use.

6. PERMANEN TLY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:

Assets of Split-Interes t Agreements

·
·
Permanently restricted net assets are restricted to investment in
was expendable to support the following activities at June 30, 1~~~ mcome from which

Assets of split-interest agreements consist of cash and other assets received under various
irrevocable charitable remainder trusts of which Masonic Homes is the trustee. The assets received
under these agreements are recorded at estimated fair market value when received.

Beneficial Interests in Perpetual Trusts
Beneficial interests in perpetual trusts represent the net present value of Masonic Homes'
irrevocable interest in various. perpetual trusts held by third-party trustees. The assets of the trusts
have been donor restricted for investment in perpetuity. The income from $418,293 of the
beneficial interests in perpetual trusts is unrestricted, and the income &om $375,903 of the
beneficial interests in perpetual trusts is permanently restricted.
5. TEMPORAR ILY RESTRICTE D NET ASSFTS AND
NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIO NS:

Temporarily restricted net assets were available for the following purposes at June 30, 1998 and
1997:

Use in the activities of Masonic Homes
Scholarship award purposes
Total temporarily restricted net assets

1998

1997

$74,917,113
1,683,115

$67,619,289
1,454,953

$76,600,228

$69,074,242

1998

1997

Use in the activities of Masonic Homes
Use for scholarship awards
Use for invest:alent in the Permanent Endowment
Fund

$107,438,206
3,152.280

$104,706,278
2.611,342

418,293

375,902

Total permanently restricted net assets

$111.00S,779

$107,693,522

7. PENSION PLAN:

Maso~ Homes•. the Grand Lodge, Nob Hill Masonic Management, Inc. and the California
Masonic Memo~ Temple sponsor a defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) that covers all
emplo~ees. Benefits are to be paid to eligible employees at retirement based rimaril
y upo~ years
to th Planp
of sennce and compensation levels near retirement Contributi
reflect benefits
e
ons
·
attributed to em 1oy •
P ees services to date. as well as services expected to be pro ·ded · th fu
consist p~y .o f common and preferred stock,. investment-grad~rpo~te ~=·
P~Uas.Ssets
. government obligations.
an

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

-8-

-9-

Pension expense of the Plan for the years ended June 30, 1998 and 1997, consisted
componen ts:

1997

1998
Service cost of the current fiscal year
Interest cost on the projected benefit obligation
Actual return on assets held in the Plan
Net amortizati on of prior service cost, transition
liability and net gain
Pension expense

$

of the following

557,548 $ 631.422
724,570
853,854
(1.586.530)
(1,680.357)
821,193

761,007

$

492,052

$

590,655

The following sets forth the status of the Plan at June 30, 1998 and 1997:

1998

1997

Actuarial present value of benefit obligations:
Vested benefits
Nonvested benefits

$12.544.234
308,156

$ 8,463,702
844,020

Accumula ted benefit obligation

$12,852,390

$ 9,307,722

$13,979,843
13,723,928

$12.081.458
10,745,760

255,915

1,335,698

(1,181,445)

(2,214.863)

701,550

784,086

754,628

279,051

Fair value of assets held in Plan
Less: Projected benefit obligation
Plan assets in excess of projected
benefit obligation
Net unrecogni zed gain from past experience
different from assumed
Unamorti zed liability at transition
Unrecognized prior service ~t
Prepaid pension cost

$

530,648

$

183,972

obligation is 7.5 percent,
The weighted average discount rate used to measure the projected benefit
long-term rate of
the rate of increase in future compensa tion levels is 4.0 percent. and the expected
ion for
amortizat
of
method
ne
straight-li
the
use
employers
The
percent.
8.0
is
assets
return on
losses.
and
gains
prior service cost and unrecogni zed
. The amount
The prepaid pension cost has been allocated to the four contributi ng employers
in 1997 in accordanc e
allocated that relates to Masonic Homes was $379,281in1998 and $77,654
with SFAS No. 87, "Employe rs Accountin g for Pensions."
Pension expense for Masonic Homes was $461,768 in 1998 and $534.292 in

1997.

145

8. RELATED -PARTY TRANSA CTIONS:

·
The Grand Lodge provides general and administra tive
support to Masonic Homes, for which it is
.
f
ti
reimburse d through an all
alloca~ons during199 8 and 1997 were
~e
ddi~s.
clnertain
o
oeln
~
$516161
and
$566,346
·
tion, Masoruc Homes incurred similar dminis
a
, , ·-r~~v Y·
during~ 998 an~:;
services on ~half of the Pooled Income Fund. The values of these services
were approxuna tely $36,486 and $40,915, respectively.

~8 ~d 1997, _Masonic ~omes provided a training site and incurred direct expenses for the

party. The Foundatio
.s~": ~=~ ~~tion (~e Foundation)'. a relatedMasonic
529
Homes for the direct costs
'respectiv ely, to fully reunburse
d
.

n paid $40,844 and

mcurre .

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ARrHuR ANoffisEN LLP

.

.

MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND

FINANCIAL SfATEMENTS
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1997 ,
TOGETHER WITH REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOuNrANTS

147

GRAND LOD GE OF CAL IFOR NIA

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

148

149

ART HUR ANDERSEN LLP

REPO RT OF INDE PEND ENT PUBL

IC ACC OUN T ANT S
MAS ONIC HOM ES POO LED INCO

ME FUN D

STAT EME NT OF TRU ST PRIN CIPA
DECEMBER 31, 1997

To the Boar d of Trust ees of
:
Maso nic Hom es Poole d Incom e Fund
es Poole d Incom e
ment of trust princ ipal of Maso nic Hom
We have audit ed the accom pany ing state
cash flows for the
and
ties
activi
of
ents
statem
the relate d
Fund (the Fund ) as of Dece mber 31, 1997,
geme nt. Our
mana
's
Fund
the
of
ents are the respo nsibi lity
year then ende d. These financial statem
our audit.
on
based
ents
statem
cial
finan
these
on
respo nsibi lity is to expre ss an opini on
ards. Thos e
with gener ally accep ted audit ing stand
We cond ucted our audit in accor dance
assur ance abou t
nable
reaso
n
obtai
to
audit
the
rm
stand ards requi re that we plan and perfo
inclu des exam ining ,
free of mate rial misst atem ent. An audit
whet her the financial statem ents are
statem ents. An
cial
finan
the
amou nts and disclo sures in
on a test basis, evide nce supp ortin g the
estim ates made by
icant
signif
and
used
iples
princ
nting
audit also inclu des asses sing the accou
n. We believ e that
overa ll financial state ment prese ntatio
mana geme nt, as well as evalu ating the
on.
opini
our
for
basis
nable
oilr audit provi des a reaso
mater ial respe cts, the
refer red to above prese nt fairly , in all
In our opini on. the financial statem ents
ties and its cash
activi
its
of
ts
resul
mber 31, 1997, and the
financial posit ion of the Fund as of Dece
nting princ iples.
accou
ted
accep
ally
gener
with
rmity
flows for the year then ende d in confo
cial statem ents taken
of formi ng an opini on on the basic finan
Our audit was made for the purpo se
pany ing statem ent of
accom
the
in
ded
inclu
n
matio
infor
as a whol e. The suppl emen tary fund
red part of the basic
addit ional analy sis and is not a requi
activi ties is prese nted for purpo ses of
dures appli ed in
proce
ing
audit
n has been subje cted to the
finan cial statem ents. This infor matio
stated in all mater ial
fairly
is
on.
opini
our
in
and,
ents
our audit of the basic financial statem
statem ents taken as a whol e.
respe cts in relati on to the basic financial

ASSETS
5,062

CASH

$

s, at fair value
INVESTMENI'S IN MARKETABLE SECURITIE

6,158,837
$6,163,899

Total assets
LIAB nmE S
CUR RENT UAB IUTIE S:
Due to Maso nic Hom es of Calif ornia
Distr ibuta ble incom e payab le

$

TRUST PRINCIPAL: Ultim ately for

45,039
36,036
81,075

Total curre nt liabilities
benef it of Maso nic Hom es of Calif ornia

6,082,824
$6,163,899

Total liabilities

The accom pany ing notes are an integ

San Francisco, California,

Febru ary 6, 1998

-2-

-1-

L

ral part of these statem ents.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

150

151

MASONI C HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND
MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND

STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

511PP!ementmy Fund
Inftmruztilm
TTllSt Corpus Trust Income

REVENUE :

Contribut ions from income beneficiaries
Interest and dividends
Net realized and unrealized gain on investments
Total revenue

Total

$ 180,000
0
320,887

0
$
413,302
0

$ 180,000
413,302
320,887

500,887

413,302

914,189

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net inaease in trust principal
Adj~ts ~ ~oncile increase in trust principal to net cash provided by
operating actiVlties:
Investmen t income receivable
Due to Masonic Homes of California
Distributable income payable
Realized and unrealized gain on investments

$

20,442
(17,247)
25,498
(320,887)

Net cash provided by operating activities

EXPENSES:
Distributions to income beneficiaries
Remainde r interest distribute d to Masonic Homes
of California
Administr ative expenses

0

413.302

413.302

5,574
45,039

0
0

5,574
45,039

Total expenses

50,613

413,302

463,915

Net increase

450,274

0

450,274

TRUST PRINCIPAL AT BEGINNING OF YEAR

5,632,550

TRUST PRINCIPAL AT END OF YEAR

$6,082,824

$

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

-3-

0

5,632,550

0

$6,082.824

450,274

158,080

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchases of securities
Proceeds from sales ol securities

(6,999,427)

Net cash used in investing activities

(179,186)

6,820,241

DECREASE IN CASH

(21.106)

CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR

26,168

CASH AT END OF YEAR

$

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

- 4-

5,062

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 1997

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

153

and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
3. INVESTMENTS IN MARKET ABLE SECURITIES:
Investments at December 31, 1997, are presented at estimated fair value and are composed of the
following:

1. ORGANIZATION:

Fixed income mutual funds
Equity mutual funds
Money market accounts

The Masonic Homes Pooled Income Ftind (the Fund) was organized in 1974 as a trust Donors
contribute irrevocable remainder interests in property while retaining an income interest for life for
one or more beneficiaries. The donors are entitled to a tax deduction equivalent to the present
value of the remainder interest in the property contributed to the Fund.
The property transferred by a donor is held in trust by the Board of Trustees of the Fund and is
commingled with and invested and reinvested with other properties transferred to the Fund. All
dividend and interest income of the Fund is distributed quarterly to the income beneficiaries, based
on their proportionate share of the Fund. Upon the death of each donor's last income beneficiary,
the remainder interest is distributed to Masonic Homes of California, a charitable corporation.

Total

1,osi.m
454
$6,158.837

4. RELATED PARTY:

In 1997, ac.hrunistrative costs for the Fund totaled $81,525. Of this amount, $36,486 was paid by
Masonic Homes of California and $45,039 was paid by the Fund.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
Basis of Presentation
The Fund acts in the capacity of an agent on behalf of the life and remainder beneficiaries of the
Fund. The accompanying financial statements include the activities and trust principal for the
period presented.
Investments
Investments in marketable securities are stated at estimated fair market value based on quoted
market prices. Property received through gifts is recorded at estimated fair value at the date of
donation. Gains or losses resulting from sales or market fluctuations are recognized in the period
such sales or market fluctuations occur.
Income Taxes
The Fund is administered in conformity with all provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, Internal
Revenue Regulations and Rulings, procedures and guidelines covering pooled income funds . The
Fund pays no income tax on income distributed to the income beneficiaries nor on long-term
capital gains. Applicable federal and state income taxes are paid by the beneficiaries on their share
of distributed income.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets

-5-

$5,105,612

-6-

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AlmruR ANDERSEN LLP

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
FINANOAL STATEMENTS
AS OF JUNE 30, 1998 · .
TOGETIIER wrIH REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

155

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSmON
JUNE 30, 1998

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Boards of Directors of
California Masonic Foundation:
We have audited the accompanying statement of financial position of California Masonic
Foundation (a California not-for-profit corporation) as of June 30, 1998, and the related statements
of activities and changes in net assets and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the organization's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable ~~urance about . .
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit mcludes exanurung,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion. the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material r~~· the
financial position of California Masonic Foundation as of June 30, 1998, and the changes m 1ts net
assets and its cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements taken
as a whole. Supplementary fund information included in the accompanying statement of financial
position. statement of activities and changes in net assets, and Sche~ul~ I ai:1d II is presented f~r
purposes of additional analysis and is not a required part of the basic financial statements. This
information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole.

General

Model
Student
Assistance

Fund

Fund

Scholarship
Funds

Total

ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents
Interest and dividends receivable
Prepaid expenses

$

$

6,748
12,836

321
0
11,665

327,861

11,986

20,438

360,285

5,239,128

988,799

3,817,127

10,045,054

5,042

12,115

0

17,157

$5,572,031

$1,012,900

$3,837,565

$10,422,496

$

$

$

$

Total current assets

INVESTMENTS
EQUIPMENT, net
Total assets

308Z77

$

20,438
0
0

$

329,036
6,748
24,501

LIABnITIES AND NET ASSETS
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable
Due to (.from) other Masonic entities
lntrafund accounts

Total current liabilities

12,017
8,124
(38,012)

30,379
52,806
16,296

0
(12.151)
21,716

42,396
48,779
0

(17,871)

99,481

9,565

91,175

5,589,902
0
0

0
913,419
0

0
635,692
3,192.308

5,589,902
1,549,111
3,192,308

Total net assets

5,589,902

913,419

3,828,000

10,331,321

Total liabilities and net assets

$5,572,031

$1,012,900

$3,837,565

$10,422,496

NET ASSETS:
Unrestricted
Temporarily restricted
Permanently restricted

San Francisco, California,
September 4, 1998
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

158

159

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998

M.>Ml
Shl.dtnt

G<nmd
Fuod

Fwllll

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

S<lroUirs/1ip
Funds

Totol

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998

UNRESl"R.ICTED

REVENUE:
Contributiorls
I n - and divid<ndJ
Net ruliz.ed and unreolized pin "" invesbnenla
TotalNYmu1

$ 113.332
217.0Sl

NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS

0

0

113.332
217,llSl
81',434
1.14'.817

226,4'1

537.373

0
0
0

814,434
1,144,817
310,932

EXPENSES:

Prognm..m-

400.000
201,4.58
31.801
633.259

178,500
0

0
201,458

6,801

25.llXI

221.SOO
0
0

185.301

226,458

221.SOO

5,271
25,615

69,548
780
0

107,00'1

1,769
6.321
0
1.335
M,474

286
1,254
495
1,605
580
0
0
721
4,91.1

196.422

Tolalex~

292.308

310,932

226,4'1

829,681

lnaeue in mvatricbed net ....,la

852.509

0

0

852.509

Eclucalianol l<holanhipo
Model student scmiNn
Odwrgnnla
Tolal propu1 .,.,.._.
General and aclminilllative:
Staff payroll OXpenM

lnvatment ..............toxi-Legal and - l i n g
Printing and suppU..
Travel
Oopndation
Nderal-tu
Odwrexi-Total pnml and adminiotratift expona

9,405

31.206
10,972
4S8
12,.300

11.1IO

4.721

15,105
27,649
9,900
37,532
13.321
6.779
12.300
13.836

TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED

REVENUE:
Contributiona
I n - and dividends
Net-1ized and unralludpinon-la

292.653

0

503.536

503.536

0
0

~10.933}

1
l
e·'"
372.786

~37.373l

0
0
0
0

0
0
0

642.428

642.428

174.547
328,989
1,145,964

174.547
3211,989
1,145,964

(503.536)

TotalNYmur

TRANSFER FROM PERMANENTLY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS
NET ASSIITS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS

-

nat-

in -ponrily PERMANENrLY RESTRICTED

REVENUE:
Contributiorls
In-and divid<ndJ
Net "'alized and unreolized pin on investmonla

Tolal J>OlllW*'tly ""tricbed rwenu•

388.34'
56.:zal
71.411
516,043

0
0
0

95,691
0
0
95,691

56.281
71.411
420.352

109,420

0

!'03.536)

lnaeueinpemw>ent!y_net_

0

642.428

642.428

1,DJ5.214

1,977,lC

852.509

109,420

NET ASSETS, beginning oi yur

4,748,155

803,999

2.812.786

8,365,540

NET ASSETS,mdolyur

$5,601,264

5913.419

53.828.000

510,342.683

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

$ 1,977,143

6,780
(1.214.841)
2,280
53,436
(10,596)
19,125

Net cash provided by operating activities

833,327

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from sale of investments
Purchases of investments
Purchases of property and equipment

4,030,367
(5,139,002)
(9,994)

Net cash med in investing activities

(1,118,629)

NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

(285,302)

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR

614,338

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR

482.206

INVESTMENT EARNlNGS TRANSFERRED TO TB.IPORARILY RESTRICTED
NET ASSIITS

INCREASE IN NET ASSETS

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Increase in net assets
Adjustments to reconcile increase in net assets to net cash provided by
operating activities:
Depreciation
Net realized and unrealized gain on investments
Oianges in assets and liabilities:
Interest and dividends receivable
Due from other Masonic entities
Prepaid expenses
Accounts payable

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

$

329,036

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-2-

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JUNE 30, 1998

1. ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

161

• Temporarily restricted net assets represent contributions whose use by the Foundation is
limited by donor-imposed restrictions. The restrictions can be fulfilled by incurring expenses
satisfying the restricted purposes.
• Permanently restricted net assets are restricted by the donor for investment in perpetuity.
These permanently restricted net assets consist of original corpus.
The Foundation categorizes its financial position by fund based upon donor restrictions as follows:

Organization
The California Masonic Foundation (the Foundation) was established in 1968 by the Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California (the Grand Lodge). The Foundation is
formed as a nonprofit charitable corporation to further all phases of education, charity and science.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. The estimates and
assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Ca.sh and Ca.sh Equivalents
The Foundation considers all highly liquid investments with an initial maturity of three months or
less when purchased to be cash equivalents.
Investments
Investments in marketable securities are stated at fair value and, to the extent that management
intends to hold such investments for more than one year, are classified as noncurrent assets. Gains
or losses that result from market fluctuations are recognized in the period in which such
fluctuations occur.
Equipment
Equipment, which consists of data processing equipment and furniture and fixtures, is carried at
cost and is depreciated on the straight-line method over three and five years, respectively.
Net Asset Categories
The Foundation reports information regarding its net assets and activities according to three classes
of net assets: unrestricted, temporarily restricted and permanently restricted.
• Unrestricted net assets are available for support of the Foundation's programs and
supporting services.

General Fund-Resources are available for support of Foundation programs and
supporting services.
Masonic Model Student Assistance Fund-This fund was established by the Grand Lodge
to provide financial support to ongoing programs aimed at assisting studentll in
furthering their academic careers. All amounts in the fund are donor-restricted
specifically for use in these programs.
Scholarship Funds
Amaranth Fund- Resources are restricted by a trust agreement with the Amaranth
Homes of California. The agreement specifies that principal is to be invested and the
income is to be used to provide educational grants to women under age 21. Net assets
of $366,433 are restricted.
Wade-Amaranth Fund-This fund was established by a bequest from W.0. Wade.
Income from the fund is to be expended for scholarships and other like purposes for
female students seeking degrees from educational institutions in California. Net
assets of $1,-096,258 are restricted.
F.M. Robinson Memorial Fund-This fund was established by contributions from
Mrs. F.M. Robinson. The principal of the fund cannot be expended. Income from the
fund is to be expended for scholarships. Net assets of $74,790 are restricted.
Harry Walker Lister Scholarship Fund-This fund was established from a
contribution of a variable appreciable life insurance policy. The policy was redeemed
during 1988. The principal of the fund cannot be expended. The income of the fund
can only be used to fund scholarships. Net assets of $340,373 are restricted.
Starr King Lodge No. 344 Scholarship Fund-This fund was established by the Starr
King Lodge from the Robert Swartz Charitable Trust. The principal of the fund
cannot be expended, and the income of the fund is to be expended for scholarships for
the benefit of Starr King members, their children, grandchildren, nieces and nephews.
Net assets of $64,684 are restricted.
MacKechnie Fund-This fund was established by a bequest from Jack I. MacKechnie.
The principal of the fund cannot be expended and is held by the Grand Lodge. The
income of the fund is transferred to the Foundation to be expended for scholarships
for needy high school graduates of proven outstanding athletic achievement. Net
assets of $22,251 are restricted.

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-3Coalinga Masonic Lodge Scholarship Fund-This fund was established by the
Coalinga Lodge. The principal of the fund cannot be expended, and the income of the
fund is to be expended, for scholarships for Coalinga area students. Net assets of
$94,111 are restricted.
Stanley and Gloria Cazneaux Scholanhip Fund-This fund was established by
Stanley and Gloria Cazneaux through a donation of cash. The principal of the fund
cannot be expended, and the income of the fund is to be expended for scholarships for
students who are interested in the arts. Net assets of $57,177 are restricted.

-4-

Arthur Wilmott Scholarship Fund-This Fund was established by contributions from
Arthur Wilmott. The principal of the fund cannot be expended, and the income of the
fund is to be expended for scholarships for the benefit of individuals chosen by the
Greenleaf Gardens Masonic Lodge. Net assets of $715,663 are restricted.
2. INVESTMENTS:

Investments comprise the following at June 30, 1998:

Fair Value

George and Ethel McElwain Memorial Fund-This fund was established by Lester S.
McElwain through a donation of stock. The principal of the fund cannot be expended,
and the income of the fund is to be expended for scholarships for worthy, needy or
middle-class young men and women. Net assets of $158,156 are restricted.
Brotherhood Lodge Fund-This fund was established by the Brotherhood Lodge
through a donation of cash. The principal of the fund cannot be expended, and the
income of the fund is to be expended for scholarships for the benefit of Brotherhood
members, their children, grandchildren. nieces and nephews, or, if at a particular time
there are no qualified applicants, to residents of San Francisco or San Mateo counties.
Net assets of $43,598 are restricted.

163

Corporate stocks and bonds
US. government obligations
Equity mutual funds
Fixed income mutual funds

$ 1,636,178
391,120
3,705,690
4,312,066
$10,045,054

3. FEDERAL EXCISE TAX:

Chowchilla Masonic Scholanhip Fund-This fund was established by the Chowchilla
Lodge through a cash donation. The principal cannot be expended, and income of the
fund is to be expended for scholarships for deserving graduating seniors at
Chowchilla Union High School and/ or Le Grand High School Net assets of $45,518
are restricted.

The Foundation is a not-for-profit organization that is exempt from income tax under
Section ~1(c)(3)_ of th~ Internal Re~enue Code (the Code). The Foundation is classified as a private
fo~dation and IS subject to ~ exrue tax on net investment income, including realized gains, as
defined by the Code. Accordingly, federal excise tax has been recognized in the amount of $12,300
for the year ended Jwie 30, 1998.

Soquel-Pajaro Masonic Lodge for T. Fenton Ham Scholarship Fund-This fund was
established by the Soquel-Pajaro Lodge through a cash donation. The principal of the
fund cannot be expended, and the income of the fund is to be expended for
scholarships for engineering students who are accepted into an Engineering Council
for Professional Development (ECPD} accredited engineering program. Net assets of
$255,153 are restricted.

4. COMMITMENTS:

Warren J. Blomseth Scholarship Fund-This fund was established by contributions
from Warren J. Blomseth. The principal of the fund cannot be expended. Income
from the fund is to be expended for scholarships. Net assets of $160,261 are restricted.
Earold H. Barton and Merna L Barton Memorial Scholarship Fund-This fund was
established by a bequest from Earold H. Barton and Merna I. Barton. The principal of
the fund cannot be expended, and the income is to be expended for scholarships for
worthy candidates selected by the Foundation. with preference to children or
grandchildren of Master Masons preparing for a career in education who participate
in extracurricular activities and attend summer school Net assets of $333,574 are
restricted.

Scholarships are renewable annually through the completion of four years of education if the
applicant meets renewal criteria and is approved for renewal by the committee. Total potential
renewals for previously awarded scholarships for the 1998/1999 school year are $266,000. Total
potential renewals for school years beyond 1998/1999 are $730,000.

SCHEDULE I

~

CUIFO&NIA MASONIC fOUNDATION

_
- -

COM81NINC STAnMiHT OF FINANCIAL rosmON-SCHOLASSHl r f\JNDS
FOi. THE YEAS ENDED )'Um lll. I ...

-

S-

u-

~A-1•..,, '""" ,.,.,,
ASSETS
CURRENT A$Cl'S'

•

9
0

--

1,101.3711

3

Cuhudcuh"'I..........
lnlotduddivDondl --

0

:zo•.:zo
7t.7'l0

340.361

lll.~

0
151.156

C.816

u.m

255.J'lO

s 94,111 s 57,177 s 158.156

H3.816

S'5,73<

1255.390 1160.261 1333.57' $715,663 13.837,565

57,177

9Ull

65,712

I 3711,969 I UOl.3711 I 7t.7'l0 S 340.373 165,m

Taoal-

:zo.<JB

0

0

Taoalcunmt-

INVESTMENTS

"ti

s :Z0.<211

5 s

s

0
0

ToMI

f -'

f•~

f .,.4

Mrfhioio
· ,,,,.,,
- - a-dllllo
'"""
Fllllll

F""4

........
,.,,.,, _....,
,....

...

f,..,.

°"""""
f•"" c.a-

r-. - F~

FM'

F-'

I :Z0.<211

160.200

m.574

715,663

3.817.127

0 I

O I

O S

0 S

0 I

0

I

0

I

0 S

0

S

0

S

0

S

0 S

0 S

0 S

0 I

Z.611

lnb'alund

o

I.US

o

(IU31l

5.W

0

t,llB8

o

0

13.llW

o

o

0

o

111

0

0

218

o

Zl8

o

(11.lSll

216

0

0

0

n ,716

6,516

5,tal

O

O

t,llB8

(1.&31)

n

n

O

218

216

D7

O

O

O

9.565

lU78

'7,125

100.m

635.692

""°""'"

TaoalcunmtliabiliO..
NET ASSrni

u ....

o

o

55.llll

176.813

<.585

53,910

15.AJ62

311.l25

919M$

70,D

216.463

d.622

~

Ul!l6.Zll

7t.790

-

M."'

T_..;ly-

TaoalliabilillesudMI

@
~

0

D•.,.•<_>___

ToUlndUMtt

~

@

I

...............y,.lricted

tT1
tT1

-t

UABIUTIES AND NET ASSETS

CURRENT
UAllUTl5
-poyoblo

~

o

n.622

9.2..

25,051

7,11/i

8.9'8

55.654

71,419

47,933

133.105

35.829

36.570

199.<99

128.783

286...9

614.691

3,192.308

2U51

96.111

57,177

158.156

C.598

'5.518

255,153

160.261

333,574

715.663

3.1211.000

I :Z0,<211

S9Ull

S 57,177

S 158.156

SU.816

545,73<

S255.J'l0 S 160.261 S 333,574 S 715.663 S 3.837,51>5

21.251

13711.969 11.101.3711 I 7t.7'l0 1340.373 165.m

o

SCHEDL:Ull
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
COMBINING STATEMENT OF AcnvmE5- SCHOLARSHIP f\JNDS
FOR THE YEAS ENDED JUNE lll. 1...

~

f....A

.__
................

Tolal~-~

........

-F.J
--

'1.J
-

ea_,
'"""

M<U..
FMA

· FIUttf
--

~
FMllll

0

S 51.000

S 2.D

5 ·I.SOD

S 10,000

S ?.ODO

I 2.000

•

51.000

~000

• .500

•

10,000

~000

2.000

22.000

51.000

4.500

10.000

S Z7.5H S

72.'ID

S 1.000

25.500
2.014

70.000

.....•

22.000

27.514

n.m

1.000

EXl'fNS5
l'n>p>aEducalian&I~..
GIMral and admlNltHliYe

-

"""
Fltflll

, ....

UNIESTIJCTED
REVDllJE; N.t ........... from Jacncbonl

U27

s-

~

,,,.,.,

S 22.000 I

• ,....•

-- -.....

Fn. .

,_,

S

r,..,

'""" '""' '""" _...,

O

S 4.500 S 5,000

S 15,000 S 226.Mil

0

0

,....•

•

4.500

•

5.000

•

15,000

•

221 .500

l .000

4.500

5.000

15.000

......1

...lll!

95,601

U<I

TEMPOLU.IL"I' usnJCl'l.D

CONmBUnONS

JUll

nANSFEI PICM PUMANENlt..l' IESTllCTED

NETASSE19

....__ .. _......

NET AS5ETS llELEASED FIOM aESTIJCTIONS

---

......

1'0.607

11.tlll

50,645

(27.514)

(72.927)

(1.000)

(22.000)

%1.1116

17.. .

,...,

1.954

..... .....

"'

13.529

IUH

:Zl.451

6.325

(St.GOD)

(l.0001

(4.500)

(10.000)

(~000)

(1.000)

(tt.151)

11.$19

.a.on

1U51

025

~,..

•

.....•

.....•

:u12

'·"'

Ji.5)1

J6.5>t

23. 21111

..7.155

51,769

,.,,..,.

(4.500)

(5,000)

(15,000J

(lli... 1)

11.700

42.1'5

HI0.972

>72.716

CQftlf~

IMuml and 4iv.....
.... .-u.daM

___

"

-

_

.. ..,...n,
.....................
-... ,__,__,_

.....

INOEASI! (OECUASE) IN NET AS6ET5
NET AS&ETS. . . _ .. , _
NET ASSETS. ... 9',.....

100

19,7'7
>4.123

1GU24

5'.665

-

,.......--pm_....,_...
,..__.,,

"

S7.ll3

.....•

• ,..,....

..
'·"'

7.19)

17,09
32,716

160.707

1Ullt

50,645

11.tst

(160.6117)

(11.1111)

(50....)

(1.954)

1111
17.718

).Oil

21.MS

11,954

JJ9.212

1.Dm.471

71.1UI

:S11.7ZI

52.7l0

1166.433

St.096.151

S7.a,,;o

Ut0.373

$64.'61

•

..,_.,.

2U6l
17.021
l0.1Z7

614,tt\

J.1.960

,,,_
...,.

lll.. .

'-'"

Ji..531

26.200

61.617

66U60

l ,Hi5.9W

(6.325)

(6.195)

(36.Sll)

(23,21111)

('7,1'5)

(51,769)

(50).>)6)

J.ODD

2U62

6tU91

642."28

"'"

il.7'95

16.531

21)00

6:U17

71U6J

1.015.JH

tll.'61

269.957

U12.7*'

1160,2'1 Slll,57.a

S 715.663 S l.111.000

15.155

~..,

"'

U.529

I .Ml

23.451

6.325

fl5')

(lUlt)

(1.5'1)

(23.4,.)

tU51

.....•
Un

IJ,U9

100

...., .,_,., ,,..,.

(lt.15')

s ZUSJ

11.529

Stun

t.141

557,177

,....

2J,l82

•.m•
5.506

) ,000

Z7.Ul

100

1.n1

"'•

1......

)9.l7)

w.rn

211.6Z2

IUl.156

SU.5'98

S U .J11

S m.1Sl

1.240

~
~

()

F!:

::;:;

PllMAHf.NTI."I' &ESRICTED

aEVENUE'

~

0
t""
0

1 7.a.~7

~

-

°'
UI

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA

AlmruR ANDERSEN LLP

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997
_TOGETHER WITH REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANI'S

167

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

169

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
JUNE 30, 1998AND1997

1997

1998

ASSETS
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Trustees of
California Masonic Memorial Temple:

CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents
Accounts receivable
Due from other Masonic entities
Prepaid expenses

$

Total current assets
We have audited the accompanying statements of financial position of California Masonic
Memorial Temple (a California not-for-profit corporation) as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the
related statements of activity and changes in net assets and cash flows for the years then ended.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the organization's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of California Masonic Memorial Temple as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the
changes in its net assets and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.

68,884
9,n1
174,780
35,435
288,810

2,932,673

2,827,128

987,172
9,749,115
1,680,012
178,359

987,172
7,757,527
822,766
2,752,010

12,594,658

12,319,475

(6,397,199)

(5,927,888)

6,197,459

6,391,587

$ 9,365,687

$ 9,507,525

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:
Land
Buildings and improvements
Furnishings and equipment
Construction in progress
Total property and equipment
Less: Accumulated depreciation
Total property and equipment, net

LIABILmEs AND NET ASSETS

CURRENT UABIUTIES:
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Construction retainer

UNRESTRCITED NET ASSETS
San Francisco, California,
September 4, 1998

$

235,555

INVESTMENTS

Total assets

45,052
6,325
140,454
43,724

Total liabilities and net assets

$

n,609
4,053

217,402
95,721

75,662

313,123

9,290,025

9,194,402

$ 9,365,687

$ 9,507,525

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

$

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

STATEMENTS OF ACTIVITY AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998AND1997

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998AND1997

1998
CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
Revenues and support
Rent from related party
Investment income
Net realized and unrealized appreciation in fair value
of investments
Initiation fees
Net assets released from restrictions and other
Total unrestricted revenues and support

Expenses:
Library and museum
Historic sites

General and administrative
Total expenses

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

1997

1998

1997

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
$ 400,000
79,448

$ 418,384
118,051

344,203
10,492
19,312

530,852
10,828
8,999

853,455

1,087,114

585,495
10,990
161,347

348,118
15,828
104,325

Increase in net assets
Adjustments to reconcile increase in net assets to net cash
provided by operating activities:
Depreciation
Net realized and unrealized appreciation in fair value ~f
investments
Changes in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable
Due from other Masonic entities
Prepaid expenses
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

$

95,623

$

613,843

469,311

259,605

(344,203)

(431,180)

3,386
34,326
(8,289)
(237,461)

2,361
(35,035)
(10,852)
309,929

12,693

708,671

3,407,757
(3,169,099)
(275,183)

2,819,268
(1,474,802)
(2,551,510)

(36,525)

(1,207,044)

0

3,022

NET DECREASE IN CASH AND EQUIVALENI'S

(23,832)

(495.351)

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR

68,884

564,235

Net cash provided by operating activities
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

757,832

468,271

Proceeds from sale of investments
Purchases of investments
Purchases of propert}- and equipment

Increase in unrestricted net assets

95,623

618,843

CHANGES IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS:
Contributions
Released from restrictions

15,888
(15,888)

3,022
(8,022)

95,623

613,843

Increase in net assets

171

Net cash used for investing activities
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Contributions received

NET ASSETS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR

9,194,402

8,580,559

NET ASSETS AT END OF YEAR

$9,290,025

$9,194,402
CASHANDCASHEQUIVALENTSATENDOFYEAR

$

45,052

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

$

68,884

172

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

173

CALIFOR NIA MASONI C MEMORI AL TEMPLE
-2-

NOTES TO FINANCI AL STATEM ENTS
JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997
Temporar ily Restricted Net Assets

1. ORGANI ZATION AND SUMMAR Y OF SIGNIFIC ANT ACCOUN TING

POLICIES:

Organiza tion
California Masonic Memorial Temple {the Temple) is a nonprofit organizati
on. According to the
Articles of Incorpora tion, income from the Temple, less operating expenses
and reserves, is to be
transferre d to the Endowme nt Fund of Masonic Homes of California {Masonic
Homes) and/ or the
California Masonic Foundatio n (the Foundatio n). The amount and proportion
s of such
distributio ns are at the sole discretion of the Board of Trustees.
Use of Estimates
The preparatio n of financial statements in conformit y with generally accepted
accountin g
principles requires managem ent to make estimates and assumptio ns. These
estimates and
assumptio ns affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure
of contingen t assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statement s and the reported amount
of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalen ts
The Temple considers all highly liquid investmen ts with original maturities
of three months or less
when purchased to be cash equivalent s.

Temporar ily restricted net assets represent contributi ons whose use by the
Temple is limited by
either donor-imp osed stipulation s or from circumstan ces surroundi ng the
receipt of the
contributi on that make clear the donor's implicit restriction on use. These
restriction s may either
expire by the passage of time or be fulfilled by actions of the Temple pursuant
to those stipulatio ns.
Collection of Books and Nonvalua ble Contribut ions
The Temple library contains a book collection of approxima tely 10,000 volumes.
The collection
includes approxima tely 8,500 works on Masonic and related philosoph ic topics
and nearly 1,500
non-Maso nic volumes, including historical, religious, scientific, political and
biographi cal works.
Fewer than 50 works in the collection could be considere d rare. The Temple
museum contains
donated items such as works of art and historical treasures contribute d by
members of the Free and
Accepted Masons of California . The Temple museum collection contains donated
items from the
membersh ip of The Masonic Fraternity in California and elsewhere. Artifacts
in the collection
include works of art, Masonic regalia and numerous historical pieces. The
Temple does not
recognize books and nonvaluab le contributi ons in its financial statements .
The Temple does not
recognize these assets as contributi ons, as they are protected and preserved
, held for public
exhibition and subject to an organizati onal policy that requires proceeds from
the sale of collection
items to be used to acquire other items for collections. Accessions and deaccessio
ns of books and
nonvaluab le contributi ons during 19'17 and 1998 were not significant.
Revenue Recogniti on
Contribut ions are recognize d when received or unconditio nally pledged.

Investme nts
Investmen ts in marketabl e securities are stated at estimated fair value based
on quoted market
prices. Investmen ts received through gifts are recorded at estimated fair market
value at the date
of donation.
Property and Equipmen t
Property and equipmen t are carried at cost and are depreciate d on the straight-li
ne method over
the following estimated lives:
Buildings and improvem ents
Equipmen t
Furnishing s

5-50 years
5-10 years
3-20 years

Functiona l Expenses Allocation s
Expenses, such as depreciati on, supplies, travel, personnel and occupancy
costs, are allocated
among program services and general and administra tive services classificat
ions on the basis of
estimates made by the Temple's manageme nt.
Tax-Exem pt Status
The Temple is a nonprofit corporatio n as described in Section 501(c){3) of the
Internal Revenue
Code and has been granted tax-exemp t status by the Internal Revenue Service
and the California
Franchise Tax Board. As discussed in Note 5, the Temple is subject to certain
federal excise taxes.

175

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

174

-4-

-3The following sets forth the funded status of the Plan at June 30, 1998 and 1997:

1. INVESTMENTS:

1998

1997

Actuarial present value of benefit obligations:
Vested benefits
Nonvested benefits

$12,544,234
308,156

$ 8,463,702
844,020

Accumulated benefit obligation

$12,852,390

$ 9,307,722

1998

1997

$13,979,843
13,723,928

$12,081,458
10,745,760

255,915

1,335,698

(1,181,445)

(2.214.863)
784,086
279,051

Investments comprised the following at June 30, 1998 and 1997:

Fair Value
1997
1998
Equity mutual fund
U.S. government obligations
Common stock
Total

98,004
964.158
1,764,966

$2,199,594
733,079
0

$

$2,932,673

$2,827,128
Fair value of assets held in Plan
Less: Projected benefit obligation

3. PENSION PLAN:

The Temple, Nob Hill Masonic Management, Inc. (Nob Hill), The Grand Lodge of Free ~d
Accepted Masons of the State of California and subsidiary (the Grand Lodge) and Masonic Homes
sponsor a defined benefit pension plan (the :ian~ that covers all empl~yees. Benefits are~ be paid
to eligible employees at retirement based primarily upon years of service and comJ>enA:tion levels
near retirement. Contributions to the Plan reflect benefits attributed to employees' services to date,
as well as services expected to be provided in the future. Plan assets consist primarily of common
and preferred stock, investment-grad e corporate bonds and U.S. government obligations.
Pension expense of the Plan for the years ended June 30, 1998 and 1997, consisted of the following
components:

1998
Service cost of the current fiscal year
Interest cost on the projected benefit obligation
Actual return on assets held in the Plan
Net amortization of prior service cost, transition
liability and net gain
Pension expense

$

$

1997

557,548 $ 6.31,422
724,570
853,854
(1,586,530)
(1,680,357)
761,007

821,193

492,052 $

590,655

Plan assets in excess of projected
benefit obligation
Net unrecognized gain from past experience
different from assumed
Unamortized liability at transition
Unrecognized prior service cost
Prepaid pension cost recognized

701,550
754,628
$

530,648

$

183,972

The weighted average discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation is
6.75 percent, the rate of increase in future compensation levels is 4.0 percent. and the expected
long-term rate of return on assets is 8.0 percent. The employers use the straight-line method of
amortization for prior service cost and unrecognized gains and losses.
Pension expense allocated to the Temple amounted to $2,425 and $2,286 in 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The prepaid pension amount has been allocated to the four contributing employers.
The amount allocated to the Temple was $27,112 and $24,241in1998 and 1997, respectively.
4. OPERATING LEASES:
Nob Hill has an operating lease with the Temple, expiring June 30, 2003, under which Nob Hill
manages the Temple auditorium. exhibit hall, parking garage and various rental properties. Under
the terms of the lease, Nob Hill is required to pay rent equal to 90 percent of the gross rental
revenues in excess of $860,000 per year, adjusted annually for inflation. until Nob Hill has paid
$240,000, after which payment shall be one-third of the remaining gross rental revenues.
Beginning in 1998, the aggregate rent calculated under this formula is subject to a limit that
increases with inflation. The aggregate rent for the year ended June 30, 1998, is limited to $400,000.

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-5-

AlmiuR ANDERSEN LLP

For the year ended June 30, 1998, adjusted gross rental revenues, as defined in the lease agreement,
were $2,153,878, which generated $400,000 in lease revenue to the Temple. For the year ended
June 30, 1997, adjusted gross rental revenues, as defined in the lease agreement, were $1,708,519,
which generated $418,384 in lease revenue to the Temple.

5. FEDERAL EXCISE TAXES:
In accordance with applicable tax provisions, the Temple is classified as a private foundation and is
subject to an excise tax on net investment income, including realized gains. Accordingly, federal
excise taxes have been recognized in the amount of $21,671 during 1998 and $9,500 during 1997.
6. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS:
The Temple leases the Temple auditorium, exhibit hall, parking garage and various rental
properties to Nob Hill (see Note 4).

NOB HILL MASONIC MANAGEMENT, INC.

The Grand Lodge provides general and administrative support to the Temple, for which it is
reimbursed through an allocation of certain expenses. The allocations for the years ended June 30,
1998and1997, were $14,750 and $14,796, respectively.

AS OF JUNE 30, 1998AND1997
TOGETHER WITH REPORT OF

1. EXPENSES BY NATIJRAL CLASSIFICATIONS:
The Temple's expenses for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1998 and 1997, were as follows:
1998

1997

Salaries and wages
Employee benefits
Professional fees
Insurance and taxes
Volunteer travel and meals
Trustee travel
Office equipment and supplies
PGM portraits
Books and collections
Production expense
Major repair and maintenance
Telephone
Postage
Depreciation and amortization
Allocated operating expense
Other outside services
Miscellaneous

$ 47,286
7,767
92,716
38,803
8,731
13,800
6,113
708
729
10,414
15,184
3,535
332
469,311
14,750
12,685
14,968

$ 45,499
7,524
42,585
23,103
7,356
21.841
4,150
9,783
421
8,313
8,790
4,087
265
259,605
14,796
6,310
3,843

Total

$757,832

$468,271

FINANCIAL STATEMEN'rS
INDEPENDENT PUBUC ACCOUNTANTS

177

179

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

178

NOB HILL MASO NIC MANA GEMEN T, INC.
BALANCE SHEETS

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

1998

1997

$ 687,048

$467,201

189,035
8,884
5,815

103,923
2,305
49,384

890,782

622,813

INVESTMENTS

259,055

235,153

EQUIP MENT, net

45,817

5,381

DEFERRED TAXES

27,000

23,000

$1..222.654

$886,347

$ 287,452
80,239
158,951
45,451
25,785

$152,015
100,042
203,901
0
0

597,878

455,958

62,500

62,500

410,273
145,000
7,003

360,113
0
7,776

624,776

430,389

$1,222,654

$886,347

ASSETS
REPOR T OF INDEP ENDEN T PUBLIC ACCO UNTANTS

To the Boards of Directors of
Nob Hill Masonic Manage ment. IJ'1c.:
Nob Hill Masoni c Manage ment. IJ'1c. (a
We have audited the accomp anying balance sheets of
the related stateme nts of operati ons and
and
1997,
and
1998
30,
June
of
as
tion)
corpota
nia
Califor
then ended. These financial stateme nts
years
the
for
flows
cash
and
s
changes in retaine d earning
respons ibility is to express an opinion
Our
ement
are the respons ibility of the Compa ny's manag
audits.
our
on
based
nts
stateme
l
financia
on these
accepte d auditin g standar ds. Those
We conduc ted our audits in accorda nce with general ly
to obtain reasona ble assuran ce about
audit
the
perform
and
plan
we
that
require
ds
standar
ement An audit include s examining,
whethe r the financia l stateme nts are free of materia l misstat
res in the financia l stateme nts. An
disclosu
and
s
on a test basis, evidenc e support ing the amount
used and signific ant estimat es made by
les
princip
ting
accoun
the
g
assessin
s
include
also
audit
l stateme nt present ation. We believe that
manage ment. as well as evaluat ing the overall financia
.
opinion
our
for
our audits provide a reasona ble basis
present fairly, in all materia l respects, the
In our opinion. the financial stateme nts referred to above
of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the
as
IJ'1c.
ment.
Manage
c
financia l positio n of Nob Hill Masoni
then ended in conform ity with general ly
results of its operati ons and its cash flows for the years
accepte d accoun ting principles.
present ed in the stateme nts of operati ons
The Temple buildin gs and rental propert ies informa tion
s of additio nal analysi s and is not a
purpose
for
ed
present
is
s
earning
d
retaine
and change s in
tion has been subjected to the auditin g
informa
This
nts.
stateme
required part of the basic financial
nts and, in our opinion , is fairly
stateme
l
proced ures applied in our audits of the basic financia
nts taken as a whole.
stateme
l
financia
basic
the
to
relation
in
respects
l
stated in all materia

San Francisco, Californ ia,
Septem ber 4, 1998

CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash and cash equival ents
Accoun ts receivable:
Trade
Other

Prepaid expenses
Total current assets

Total assets
LIABILITIES AND STOCK HOLDE R'S EQUITY

CURRENT LIABILITIES:

Accoun ts payable and accrued liabilities
Audito rium rental deposit s
Due to other Masoni c entities
Income taxes payable
Other deposit s
Total current liabilities

SI'OCl<HOLDER'S EQUITY:
Commo n stoclc (no par value: 100 shares authori zed, issued
and outstan ding)
Retaine d earning s:
Undesi gnated
Design ated by Board of Directors
Unreali zed gains on investm ents availab le for sale
Total stockho lder's equity
Total liabilities and stockho lder's equity

The accomp anying notes are an integral part of these stateme

nts.

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

181

NOB HILL MASONIC MANAGEMENT, INC.
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND CHANGES IN RETAINED EARNINGS

NOB HILL MASONIC MANAGEMENT, INC.

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1998 AND 1997

T...,.i.
Builllblp
1991

r...,.i.
Builllblp
1997

R1nta1
Rertllll
Proprrtift Propntin
1998
1997

Tollll 1991

Total 19117

Sl,818,034
1,125,824
26,500
0

Sl,503.263
1,ol7,241
26,500
0

s

0
0
0
313,640

Sl.818,034
1,125,824
26,500
3n,076

Sl.503,263
1,017,241
26,500
313,640

2.970.358

2,S47,Q04

313,640

3,291,434

2.860.6'4

REVENUES:
Rent of:
A11ditoriwn and other charga to P11blic
Gange
§i-e to Grand Lodge
Other rul -le

Total revenue
EXPENSES:
Prod11ction Gpenoo
s.i.n.. and payroll~
Ulili-andoervice
Maill-.nce
lnollnnce
Prvperly-

887,970

775,553

750,702

701.202

171,295
177,499
143,476

151,902
156,699

64,656

62.004

3,570
16,110
24.n2

'11>,729

0
0
0
321,076
321,076

s

0
0

887,970

775,553

750,702

701.m

206,142
251,540
158,664
76,472
3,570
16,110
24.212

188,848
198,029
172.312
73,716
3,137

12.566

0
0
34.847
74.041
15,188
11,.816
0
0
0
'Zl,047
0
0

76,188

2.289

119,366
15,613
11,712
0
0
0
'Zl,140
0
0
1,()99

:Z.511.861

165.228

nl.876

2.931,084

:Z,77J.737

35,143

$155,848

$101,764

360,350

136.907

46,492

29.235

406,842

166.142

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

(161,682)

(55,994)

Netillcome

245,160

110,148

RETAlNED EARNINGS AT BEGINNING OF
YE.All: Undesignalild

360,113

29J,96S

DIVIDENDS PAID

(50,000)

(30,t"OO)

555,273

s 360,113

s

410,273
145,000

s 361),113
0

s

555,273

s 360,113

~Legal and eccounting

78,663

3,137

Offb 111pplleo. printing and pomge
Mulagement and rmtal h!ei
F.allty nnt to relatlld puty
CoMral ad!niniollatiY• allocation
Mllcellaneou

30,483

28,984

400,000
12.696
IB,187

418,384

Totalezi--

2.765,856

Net openoling income

s

204,502

19,852

s

36,946

57,530
400.000
12.696
85,476

OTHER INCOME
Net-..... before pnMllon for
inCOIM taxes

RETAlNED EARNINGS AT END OF YEAR
COMPONENl'S OF RETAINED EARNINGS AT
END OF YEAR:
Undesignatlld
Designated by loud of Directon
Total

s

'1/>,'m
19,852
56,124
418.384

12.564

1998

1997

$ 245,160

$ 110,148

(3,750)
3,570

0
3,137

(91,691)
43,569
(4,000)
135,437
(19,803)
(44,950)
45,451
25,785

29,328
(43,984)
10,294
(37,643)
32,853
73,237
(14,131)
0

Net cash provided by operating activities

334,778

163,239

INVE5TING ACTIVIfIEs:
Proceeds from sale of investment securities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
Purchases of investment securities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment

186,646
3,750
(211,321)
(44,006)

0
0
(227,377)
(5,472)

Net cash used for investing activities

(64,931)

(23Ul49)

FINANCING ACTIVlTIES: Payment of dividends

(50,000)

(50,000)

NET INCREASE {DECREASE) IN CASH AND EQUNALENTs

219,847

(119,610)

CASH AND CASH EQUNALENI'S AT BEGINNING OF YEAR

467,201

586,811

CASH AND CASH EQUNALENI'S AT END OF YEAR

$ 687,048

$ 467,201

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH PAYMENTS MADE FOR:
Income taxes

$ 82,000

$ 87,000

OPERATING ACTIVlTIES:
Net income
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
operating activities:
Gain on sale of assets
Depreciation
Olanges in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable
Prepaid expenses
Deferred income taxes
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Auditorium rental deposits
Due to other Masonic entities
Income taxes payable
Other deposits

Tl)¥!

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

NOB HILL MASONIC MANAGEMENT, INC.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JUNE 30, 1998AND1997

183

-2-

Revenue Recognition
Rental revenue is recognized at the time the physical facilities are used.

1. ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
Organization
Nob Hill Masonic Management, Inc. (the Company), a for-profit corporation, is a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the state of California (Grand
Lodge). It operates the California Masonic Memorial Temple (the Temple) auditorium. parking
garage, exhibit hall and various rental properties under the terms of an operating lease with the
Temple, an affiliated entity.

Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for using the liability method under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SF AS) No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."
2. INVESTMENTS:
Investments consist of equity and fixed income mutual funds and comprise the following at
June 30, 1998 and 1997:

1998

Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
assumptions aHect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Equity mutual funds
Fixed income mutual funds
Total

Gllin.s

Fllir
Vlllue

$176,463
75,589

$5,122
1,881

$181,585
77,470

$252,052

$7,003

$259,055

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or
less when purchased to be cash equivalents.

1997

Investments

Equipment
Equipment, which consists of an automobile and operating and data processing equipment, is
carried at cost and is depreciated on the straight-line method over five years.
Retained Earnings
The Company's Board of Directors has designated $145,000 of retained earnings for specially
designated projects. These designations are discretionary and may be removed by the Board at any
time.

&tirrrtrtn

Unmdized

Cost

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on availablefor-sale securities are reported as a separate component of stockholder's equity until realized.
Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned. Realized gains and losses for securities
are included in earnings and are derived using the specific identification method for determining
the cost of securities sold.

Grvss

Equity mutual funds
Fixed income mutual funds
Total

GIWI

Estimad

Unrtlllized

Cost

Gllin.s

Fllir
Vlllue

$ 28,950
198,427

$3,815
3,961

$ 32,765
202.388

$227,377

$7,776

$235,153

1998

1997

$23,885
8,997
16,596

$ 16,612
5,472
0

3. EQUIPMENT:
Equipment comprises the following at June 30, 1998 and 1997:

Automobiles
Data processing equipment
Operating equipment
Total equipment

49,478

22,084

Less: Accumulated depreciation

(3,661)

(16,703)

Net

$45,817

$ 5,381

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-3-

-4-

4. PENSI ON PLAN:
The Compa ny, the Temple , the Grand Lodge and
the Masonic Homes of Califor nia sponso r a
define d benefit pensio n plan (the Plan) that covers
all employ ees. Benefits are to be paid to eligible
employ ees at retirem ent based primar ily upon years
of service and compe nsation l~vels near
retirem ent. Contri bution s to the Plan reflect benefit
s attribu ted to employ ees' service s to date, as
well as service s expected to be provid ed in the future.
Plan assets consist primar ily of commo n and
preferr ed stock, investm ent-gra de corpor ate bonds
and U.S. govern ment obligations.
Pensio n expens e of the Plan for the years ended June
30, 1998 and 1997, consist ed of the follow ing
compo nents:

1998
Service cost of the curren t fiscal year
Interes t cost on the project ed benefit obligat ion
Actual return on assets held in the Plan
Net amorti zation of prior service cost, transiti on
liability and net gain
Pensio n expense
The follow ing sets forth the status of the Plan at June

$

1997

557.548 $ 631,422
724,570
853.854
(1,680.357)
(1.586.530)
761,007

$

492,052

821,193
$

590,655

30, 1998 and 1997:

1998

1997

Actuar ial presen t value of benefit obligations:
Vested benefit s
Nonve sted benefit s

$12,544,234
308,156

$ 8,463,702
844,020

Accwn ulated benefit obligat ion

$12,852,390

$ 9;3()7,722

$13,979.843

13,723,928

$12,081.458
10,745,760

Plan URts In exce11 of project ed
benefit obligat ion

255,915

1,335,698

Net mnco pir.ed pin from put expertenc:e
dlhm t from MIWIWd
thlamDrllad u.&illty at trulliti on
Uftl9COlll'l&ed prior llfYice COit

(1,181.445)
701.550
754,628

(2.214.863)

Fair value of - t s held in Plan
Leu: Prajected benefit obligat ion

Pnpmd pensio n cost recognized

185

$

530,648

784,086
279,051
$

183,972

The weight ed averag e discou nt rate used to measur
e the project ed benefit obligat ion is
6.75 percen t, the rate of increas e in future compe nsation
levels is 4 percen t, and the expect ed longterm rate of return on assets is 8 percent. The employ
ers use the straigh t-line metho d of
amorti zation for prior service cost and unreco gnized
gains and losses.
The net pensio n amoun t has been allocat ed to the
four contrib uting employ ers. The amoun t
allocat ed to the Compa ny was an accrue d liability
of $26,747 and $26.89 6in199 8 and 1997,
respect ively. Pensio n expens e allocat ed to the Compa
ny was $18.853 and $19,042 in 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

5. OPERA TING LEASES:
The Compa ny has an operat ing lease with the Temple
, expirin g June 30, 2003, under which the
Compa ny manag es the Templ e auditor ium. exhibit
halL parkin g garage and variou s rental
proper ties. Under the terms of the lease, the Compa
ny is required to pay rent equal to 90 percen t
of the gross rental revenu es in excess of $860,000
per year, adjuste d annual ly for inflatio n, until the
Compa ny has paid $240,000, after which payme nt
shall be one-th ird of the remain ing gross rental
revenu es. Beginn ing in 1998, the aggreg ate rent calcula
ted under this formul a is subjec t to a limit
that increas es with inflation. The aggreg ate rent for
the year ended June 30, 1998, is limited to
$400,000.
For the year ended June 30, 1998, adjuste d gross rental
revenu es, as define d in the lease agreem ent,
were $2,153.878, which genera ted $400,000 in lease
payme nts. For the year ended June 30, 1997,
adjuste d gross rental revenu es, as defined in the lease
agreem ent, were $1,708.519, which genera ted
$418,384 in lease payme nts.

.

The Compa ny has a manag ement agreem ent with
AMPCO Auto Parks, Inc. (AMPCO) for the
operat ion of the parkin g garage. Under the terms
of agreem ent, the Compa ny receives all receipt s
collect ed by AMPC O. The Compa ny pays AMPC
O a manag ement fee of $1,500 per month plus
1.5 percen t of the net revenu e, as defined , of the garage
. Net receipt s under the agreem ent were
$801,056 and $703.342 for 1998 and 1997, respectively.
The agreem ent can be termin ated by either
party with 30 days notice.

6. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS:
The Grand Lodge provid es genera l and admini strative
suppor t to the Compa ny for which it is
reimbu rsed throug h an allocat ion of certain expens
es. The allocat ions for 1998 and 1997, includ ing
amoun ts in salarie s and payrol l expens e, were $45,096
and $44,304, respect ively.
The Compa ny provid es office space to the Grand
Lodge at $26,500 per year.
In July 1996 and 1997, divide nds of $500 per share
(totaling $50,000 in each year) were declare d by
the Board of Directo rs of the Compa ny and were
paid to the Grand Lodge in Octobe r of each year.
In July 1998, a divide nd of$600 per share (totalin
g $60,000) was declare d by the Board of Directo rs
of the Compa ny and will be paid to the Grand Lodge
on Octobe r 1, 1998.

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

-5-

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
7. INCOME TAXES:
The provision for income taxes for the years ended June 30, 1998 and 1997, consists of the
following:

Current
Federal
State
Total
Deferred:
Federal
State
Total
Total:
Federal
State
Total

1998

1997

$129,590

36,092

$31,516
14,184

165,682

45,700

(5,500)
1,500

7,889
2,405

CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT PLAN

(4,000)

10,294

124,090
37,592

39,405
16,589

$161,682

$55,994

The Company has net deferred tax assets of $27,000 and $23,000 as of June 30, 1998 and 1997,

respectively. These deferred tax assets result primarily from differences in the timing of
recognition of sick and vacation payroll expenses, and state tax expenses, for book and tax

purposes.

FINANCIAL sr.ATEMENT5

SCHEDULEs

AND SUPPLEMENTAL
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1997AND1996
TOGETHER WITH REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT PUBUC ACCOUNTANTS

187

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

AITTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

REPORT OF INDE PEND ENT PUBL
CAL IFOR NIA MAS ONIC RETIREM

ENT PLAN
To Califo rnia Maso nic Retir emen t Plan:

INDEX

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC

IC ACC OUN TANT S

We were engag ed to audit the accom pany
ing financial statem ents and suppl emen
tal sched ules of
the Califo rnia Masonic Retir emen t Plan
as of December 31, 1997 and 1996,
and for the years then
ende d, as listed in the accom pany ing
index. These financial statements and
sched ules are the
respo nsibi lity of the Plan' s manageme
nt.
ACC OUN f ANTS

FINA NCIA L Sl'ATEMENTS:
State ment s of Net Assets Available for
Benefits as of December 31, 1997 and 1996
State ment s of Changes in Net Assets Avail
able for Benefits for the Years Ende d
Dece mber 31, 1997 and 1996
Note s to Finan cial State ment s

1

2
3
4

SUPP LEM ENl'A L SCHEDULES:
Sche dule I: Line 27(a) -Sche dule of Asset

s Held for Inves tmen t Purpo ses as of
Dece mber 31, 1997
Sche dule n: Line 27(d )-Sch edule of
Reportable Transactions for the Year Ende
d
Dece mber 31, 1997

9

12

As perm itted by 29 CFR 2520.103-8 of the
Depa rtmen t of Labor Rules and Regulation
s for
Repo rting and DWclosure unde r the Empl
oyee Retir emen t Income Security Act
of 1974, the plan
admi nistra tor instru cted us not to perfo
rm. and we did not perform. any audit
ing proce dures with
respect to the infor matio n summarize
d in Note 3, whic h was certif ied by Wells
Fargo Banlt, the
asset custo dian of the Plan. except for
comp aring such infor matio n with the
relate d infor matio n
inclu ded in the 1997 and 1996 financial
statements and supp leme ntal sched
ules. We have been
infor med by the plan admi nistra tor that
the asset custodian holds the Plan' s inves
tmen t assets and
executes inves tmen t transactions. The
plan admi nistra tor has obtai ned a certif
ication from the
asset custo dian as of and for the years
ende d Dece mber 31, 1997 and 1996, that
the infor matio n
provi ded to the plan aidministrator by
the asset custodian is comp lete and accur
ate.
Because of the significance of the infor
matio n that we did not audit , we are unab
le to, and do not,
expre ss an opini on on the accom pany
ing financial statem ents and sched ules
taken as a whole. The
form and conte nt of the infor matio n inclu
ded in the finan cial statements and sched
ules, other than
that deriv ed from the infor matio n certif
ied by the asset custodian, have been audit
ed by us in
accor dance with gener ally accep ted audit
ing stand ards and. in our opini on. are
prese nted in
comp lianc e with the Depa rtmen t of Labo
r Rules and Regulations for Reporting
and Disclosure
unde r the Empl oyee Retir emen t Incom
e Security Act of 1974.

San Francisco, California,
March 6, 1998

-1-

191

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

190

CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT PLAN
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 AND 1996
CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT PLAN
STATEMENTS OF NET ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
DECEMBER 31, 1997 AND 1996

1997

ADDmONS TO NET ASSETS:
Employer contributions
1997

ASSETS:
Investments, at fair value:
Cash and cash equivalents
Mutual funds:
Fixed income funds
Equity funds
Common stocks

Receivables
Total assets

LIABILITIES: Accounts payable
NET ASSETS AVAn.ABLE FOR BENEFITS

800,000

$

315,609

3,337,617
3,()39,795
5,755,930

4,284,060
2,388,989
4,362,684

13,140,297

11,351,342

75

75

13,140,372

11,351,417

47,685

47,248

$13,092,687

$11,304,169

Investment income:
Interest and dividends
Net realized and unrealized appreciation in fair value
of investments

800,000

629,065

678,453

1,127,620

646,681

Total investment income

1,756,685

1,325,134

Total additions

2,556,685

2,125,134

593,110
107,282
67,775

521,528
167,940
59,638

768,167

749,106

NET INCREASE

1,788,518

1,376,028

NET ASSETS AVAn.ABLE FOR BENEFITS:
Beginning of year

11,304,169

9,928,141

$13,092,687

$11,304,169

DEDUCTIONS FROM NET ASSETS:
Benefits paid to participants
Administrative expenses
Investment management expenses
Total deductions

End of year
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

-2-

$

1996

$ 1,006,955

Total investments

$

1996

-3-

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

192

CALIFO RNIA MASON IC RETIREM ENT PLAN
NOTES TO FINANC IAL STATEMENT S
DECEMB ER 31, 1997 AND 1996

L DESCRI PTION OF THE PLAN:
General
The Californi a Masonic Retireme nt Plan (the Plan) is a defined benefit
plan that provides
retireme nt benefits for substanti ally all employe es of Masonic Homes
of Californi a, Masonic Grand
Lodge and Compon ent Organiza tions (collectively, the Grand Lodge)
who have reached the age
of 21 and complete d one year of service. It is subject to the provision
s of the Employe e Retireme nt
Income Security Act of 19'74 (ERISA). Participa nts should refer to
the Plan's documen ts for a more
complete descripti on of the Plan.
Employe es with five or more years of service are entitled to annual
pension benefits beginnin g at
normal retireme nt age (65). For service prior to January 1, 1993, the
annual retiremen t benefit at
normal retireme nt is equal to 2 percent of the average annual compens
ation earned during the five
calendar years prior to January l, 1993, times years of service through
1992. For service after
Decembe r 31, 1992,. the annual retireme nt benefit at normal retireme
nt is equal to 2 percent of the
compens ation earned in each full and partial year of service.
The Plan permits early retiremen t at ages 55 to 64 for participa nts
with a minimum of 10 years of
service. Married employee s may elect to receive their pension benefits
in the form of a joint and
suzvivor annuity. U employee s terminate before renderin g five years
of service, they forfeit the
right to receive the portion of their accumul ated plan benefits attributa
ble to the Grand Lodge' s
contribut ions.

U an active employe e dies at age 55 or older, a death benefit equal to the
value of the employe e's
accumul ated required contribut ions is paid to the employe e's beneficia
ry. A death benefit will also
be payable to an employe e who dies after accumula ting five years
of service. Active employee s
who become disabled and totally incapacit ated may receive an annual
disability benefit that is
equal to the normal retiremen t benefits they have accumula ted as of the time
they become disabled,
reduced for early withdraw al Disabilit y benefits are paid until normal
retiremen t age, at which
time disabled participa nts begin receiving normal retiremen t benefits.
The assets of the Plan are maintain ed in a trust establish ed pursuant
to a trust agreemen t between
the Grand Lodge and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A
Funding Policy
Prior to January l, 1982. contribut ions to the Plan had been made
by participa ting employe rs and
employe es based upon a percentag e of covered payroll. Effective
January l, 1982. the requirem ent
for employe e contribut ions was terminate d. The Grand Lodge contribut
es actuarial ly determin ed
amounts sufficien t to amortize the unfunde d present value of accumul
ated plan benefits over the

-4-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

193

working lifetime of the active participa nts. The Plan complies with
the minimum funding
requirem ents of ERISA.
Plan Termina tion
Although the Grand Lodge has no intention to terminate the Plan,
it has .the ability to. do so.
Should the Plan terminate at some future time, its net assets generally
will not be available on a pro
rata basis to provide participa nts' benefits. Whether a particula r
participa nt's accumula~ plan
benefits will be paid depends on both the priority of those benefits
and th~ level of benefits.
guarante ed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporat ion (PBGC)
at that time. Some ~efits may
be fully or partially provided for by the then-exis ting assets and the
PBGC guaranty , while other
benefits may not be provided for at all.
Informat ion about the plan agreemen t, the vesting and benefit provisiom
, and the PBGC s benefit
guaranty is available from the Grand Lodge.
Investm ent Managem ent and Adminis trative Expenses
Investme nt managem ent and administ rative expenses are principal

ly paid by the Plan.

2. SUMMA RY OF SIGNIFI CANT ACCOU NTING POLICIE S:
Basis of Accounti ng
The financial statemen ts of the Plan are prepared based upon generally
accepted accountin g
principle s.
Use of Estimate s
The preparati on of financial statemen ts in conformi ty with generally
accepted accountin g
principle s requires managem ent to make estimates and assumpt iom
that. aff~ the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosur e of continge nt assets
and liabilities at the date of the
financial statemen ts and the reported amounts of additiom and deductio
ns during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates .

Investme nts
Investme nts in marketab le securities are stated at fair value based
on quoted market prices or net
asset values as reported by the asset custodian .
Income Recognit ion
Securitie s transacti om are recorded as of the trade date. Interest income
is recorded on an accrual
basis. Dividend s are recorded when received.
Actuaria l Present Value of Accumul ated Plan Benefits
Accumul ated plan benefits are those estimated ~ture P4'.~odic paymi:nt
s, including lump-sum
distributi ons, that are attributab le under the Plan s provlSlon s to sel'VICes
rendered by the
.
employe es to the valuation date. Accumul ated plan benefits include
benefits expected to be P'."d to
(a) retired or terminate d employe es or their beneficia ries and (b) present
the employee s or the1r

-5-

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

beneficiaries. Benefits payab le under all circum
stance s (retire ment, death, disabil ity and
termin ation of emplo yment ) are includ ed to the
extent that they are deeme d attribu table to
emplo yee service render ed to the valuat ion date.

The follow ing indivi dual invest ments exceed ed
5 percen t of total net assets available for benefi
ts at
Decem ber 31, 1997 and 1996:

Benef it Payme nts to Partic ipants
Benefit payme nts to partici pants are record ed

Fair Value at
December31

upon distrib ution.

3. INVES TMEN TS:

The plan admin istrato r has elected the metho d
of compl iance permi tted by 29 CFR
Sectio n 2520.103-8 of the Depar tment of Labor
Rules and Regul ations for Repor ting and Disclo
sure
under the Emplo yee Retire ment Income Securi
ty Act of 1974. Accor dingly , as permit ted under
such election, the following inform ation was certifie
d by Wells Fargo Banlt, the asset custodian,
and was not subjected to any auditi ng proced
ures perfor med by the indepe ndent public
accoun tants:
• Total invest ments shown in the statem ents
of net assets availa ble for benefi ts of $13,140,297
and $11,351,342 at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respec tively.
• The follow ing amoun ts shown in the statem
ents of changes in net assets availab le for benefi
ts
for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996:

Intere st and divide nds
Net realize d and unreal ized apprec iation
in fair value of invest ments

1997

1996

$ 629,065

$678,453

$1,127,620

PIMC O Total Return Fund
SEI Intern ationa l Fund
SEI Small Capita l Growt h Fund

$1,127,620

1,.356,254

679,362

Vested benefits:
Partici pants receiv ing benefi ts
Other partici pants

$4,.315,961
4,715,733

Total vested benefits

9,031,694

Nonve sted benefi ts

$646,681

490,736

Total actuar ial presen t value of
accum ulated benefi ts

1996

$9,522,430
benefits were as follows:

Balance at Januar y 1, 1996
Increase (decrease) during the year due to:
Benefits accum ulated
Decrease in the discou nt period
Benefit payme nts

$1,136,325 $491,()56
(8,705) 155,625

Net apprec iation in fair value of invest ments

1996

$4,284,060

The actuar ial presen t value of accum ulated plan
benefi ts is determ ined by the Plan's consu lting
actuar y and is the amoun t that results from applyi
ng actuarial assum ptions to adjust the
accum ulated plan benefi ts earned by the partici
pants to reflect the time value of money (throu
gh
discou nts for interes t) and the probab ility of payme
nt (by means of docum ents such as for death,
disabi lity, withd rawal or retirem ent) betwe en
the valuat ion date and the expected date of payme
nt.
The actuar ial presen t value of accum ulated plan
benefits at December 31, 1996 (the most recent
actuar ial valuat ion), is as follows:

Changes in the actuar ial presen t value of accum ulated
plan
1997

1997

$3,.337,617
1,128,707
927,426

4. ACTU ARIAL INFOR MATI ON:

Durin g 1997 and 1996, net realized and unreal
ized apprec iation in fair value of invest ments
was as
follows:

Comm on stock
Mutua l funds

195

$646,681

Actuar ial presen t value of accum ulated plan
benefits at Decem ber 31, 1996

$8,652,001
720,658
671,299
(521,528)
$9,522,430

Signif icant actuar ial assum ptions used in determ
ining the accum ulated plan benefits were as
follows:

Assumed rate of return:
Mortality:
Retire ment age:

8 percen t compo unded annua lly
1983 Group Annui ty Mortality Table (nondisabled)
1996 IRS Disability Mortality Table (Rev. Rule 96-7)
(disabled)
64

-6-7-

196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

197

SCHEDULE I
CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT PLAN
PLAN NUMBER 001
EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICAT ION NUMBER 94-2389402

5. TAX-EXEMPT STATUS:

The Int2mal Revenue Service has determined and informed the Grand Lodge by letter dated
June 26, 1985, that the Plan and related trust are designed in accordance with applicable sections of
the Internal Revenue Code (the IRq. The Plan has been amended since receiving the
determination letter. However, the Grand Lodge and the Plan's tax counsel believe that the Plan is
designed and is currently being operated in compliance with the applicable requirements of the

LINE 27(a)-SCHEDU LE OF ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1997

IRC.

(b)

(a)

ldenntyof
lssuetmd

(c)

Sham

(d)

Current

DescriJ1tiqn olJnwstrnent

Cost

Volue

(e)

CASH AND MONEY MARKET FUNDS
530,447
Palley Needelman Money Market
30,871
PIMCO Money Market
940 SEI Money Market
311,523 Sirach Money Market
Wells Fargo Cash Disbursement Account
N/A
Total cash and money market funds

..

-8-

COMMON STOCK:
Abbott Labs
500
1,800 Ahmanson H.F. &: Co.
1,500 AirtQuch Communication s Inc.
1,000 Allied Signal Inc.
2,400
American Greetings Corp. a. A
1,200 American Home Products Corp.
American Intl. Group Inc.
450
1,650 Aon Corp.
BankAmerica Corp.
400
1,000
Beneficial Corp.
1,600 Boeing Co.
750 Burlington Northn. Santa Fe Corp.
550 Cardinal Health Inc.
1,442 Cendant Corp.
300 Chase Manhattan Corp. New
900 Cisco Sys. Inc.
200 Citicorp
200 aoroxCo.
400 Columbia Gas Sys. Inc.
1,050 Computer Assoc. Intl. Inc.
1,000 Conagra Inc.
800 Conseco Inc.
1,100 Corrections Corp. of America
2,100 Costco Companies Inc.
300 CPClntl.Inc.

* A party-in-interes t to the Plan. as defined by ERISA
-9-

$

530,447
30,871
940
311.523
133,174

$

530,447
30,871
940
311,523
133.174

1,006,955

1,006,955

15,526
37,403
50,549
20,805
70,325
88,805
20,347

32,750
120,488
62.345
38,813
93,900

35,856
12.281
69,570
87.312
37,740
32.416

35,434
23,134
36,469
16,952
9,781
25,128
34,614
19,970
32,425
43,843
61,250

20,054

91.800
48,938
96,731
29,200
83.125
78,301
69,704
41,319
49,564
32,850
50,175
25,288
15.875
31,425
55,650
33,125
36,350
40,769
93,713
32,400

.
198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

199

SCHEDULE I
Continued

SCHEDULE I
Continued

(b)

Identity of
Issveand
(a)
Sham

(b)

(e)

(d)
Cost

(c)

Description o(I111Jtstment

COMMON STOCK:
1,700 Duke Energy Corp.
2,100 Elf Aquitaine Sponsored ADR
1,200 Ensco International Inc.
700 Equitable Cos. Inc.
700 First Amem. Corp. Tenn.
2,420 First Union Corp.
1,350 Fleet Finl. Group Inc. New
1,900 Foster Wheeler Corp.
1,300 Fred Meyer Inc. New
1,600 Gannett Inc.
400 General Elec. Co.
1,300 General Motors Corp.
600 Halh1>urton Co.
800 HBO&:Co.
2,000 Healthsouth Corp.
400 Hewlett Packard Co.
600 Home Depot Inc.
1,200 Int'l Business Machines Corp.
1,900 Kerr McGee Corp.
1,105 LoewsCorp.
700 Lucent Technologies Inc.
1,973 Masco Corp.
1,334 May Dept Stores Co.
2.000 MO Communications Corp.
300 Merck &: Co. Inc.
400 Merrill Lynch &: Co. Inc.
400 Mgic. Invt. Corp. Wis.
200 Microsoft Corp.
1,200 Mobil Corp.
2,600 Morton Intl Inc. Ind. New
300 Nordstrom Inc.
800 Office Depot Inc.
600 Pfizer Inc.
3,060 Philip Morris Cos. Inc.
1,500 Philip Svcs. Corp.
2,000 Praxair Inc.
200 Proctor &: Gamble Co.
2,100 Providian Financial Corp.
2,434 Raytheon Co.
1,400 Republic Inds. Inc.
2.205 Ryder Sys. Inc.

$

74,000
105,147
44.463
28,268
33,963
115,241
89,598
64,454
36,091
38,256
10,386

78,254
11,284
32.343
43,651
9,282
19,851
48,267
119,790
96,532
47,210
45,927
46,770
54,721

11,281

12.969
9,263
29,031
62,984
80,253

17,854
18,509
11,337
72,717
21,636
90,010
6,113
51,470
96,846
43,659
55,378
-10-

Current
Value

$

94,138
123,112
40,200
34,825
34,825
124,025
101,419
51,420
47,287
98,901
29,350
78,975
31,125
38,400
55,500
24,950
35,325
125,550
120,295
117,268
55,912
100,376
70,286
85,626
31,800
29,175
26,600
25,850
86,626
89,375
18,112
19,150
~,738

138,465
21,562
90,000
15,963
94,895
122.917
32,638
72,214

(a)

Identity of
Issue and
Sham

(e)

(c)

(d)

Description Olf111Jt!Strnent

COMMON STOCK:
600 Safeway Inc.
1,500 SBC Communications Inc.
600 Schering Plough Corp.
400 Schlumberger Ltd.
1,300 Staples Inc.
1,200 Starbucks Corp.
1,100 Sunamerica Inc.
1,200 Tenet Healthcare Corp. Common
1,500 Texaco Inc.
1,000 Thermo Electron Corp.
500 Tidewater Inc.
699 Travelers Group Inc.
1,600 TRWinc.
1,200 Tyco lnt'l Ltd. New
2.120 Union Pac. Corp.
5,033 Union Pac. Res. Group Inc.
1,400 United States Filter Corp. New
800 Unum Corp.
1,630 us 8ancorp. Del.
1,130 USA Waste Svcs. Inc.
363
Washington Federal Inc.
4,100 Wendys International Inc.
1,700 Williams Cos. Inc.
1,400 Worldcom Inc.
1,740 XeroxCorp.
2.000 Yor.k lnt'l Corp. New
Total common stock
MUTUAL FUNDS:
314,869 PIMCO Total Return Fund
121,236 SEI International Fund
55,802 SEI Small Capital Growth Fund
55,786 SEI Emerging Markets Equity Fund
34,325 SIRAQI Special Equity Fund
Total mutual funds
Total cash and investments

-11-

Ommt
Valve

Cost
$

17,040
76,018
10,904
22,539
28,023
43,316
21,108
23,910
89,443
40,388
18,330
15,890
92,351
31,026
106,499
125,775
43,578
29,566
117,794
33,779
6,587
87,162
21,075
32.859
89,349
96,737

$

37,950
109,875
37,275
32.200
36,()75
46,050
47,025
39,750
81,563

44,000
27,687
37,659
85,400
54,076
132.765
122,050
41,913
43,500
182,459
44,352
lUU
98,658
48,450
42,350

128,542
79,126

4,244,094

5,755,930

3,298,551
1,196,571
853,321
551,500
482.348

3,337,617
1,128,707
927,427
577,945
405,716

6,382.291

6,377,412

$11,633,340

$13,140,297

SCHEDULED

N

0

0

CALIFORNIA MASONIC llETI1lEMENT PLAN
PLAN NUMBER 001
EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER M-2389'02
LINE %7(cl)-SCHEDULE OF REPORT ABLE TRANSACTIONS
FOR l1IE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

~

(h)

(-.I

(II)

1'1mti1yo[Jwtdao fm'

~of_.A.at

(c)

(4)

"-*-J>ria

Sellbi~ Priat

(e)

(/)
Eqnm lrcarred

(g)

Limit Rnllll_ .,;111 'Jimuilioll __ 0.1 o/Autt

C.mmt Value
ofAart Oii
Trmu.:lioR

om.

tT1
tT1

(i)

Nrt Goia (Lou)

~

Cl

Series of transactions:
SEITruat
SEITruat

Wells Fargo*
Wells Fargo*
PIMCO Total Rdum Fund
PIMCO Total Return Fund

Money Market
Money Market
Money Market
Money Market
Mutual Fund
Mutual Fund

$.3.613.849

$2,890,'.758
l,147,452
l,088,937
346.626

1.360.000

s

V>

so

so

53.613.849

53.613.849

0
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
0

2,890,'.758

2,890,758

1,147,452
1,088,937
346.626
1.318.416

1,147,452
1,088,937
346.626

0
0
0
0
0

1,360,000

41,584

~

~

• A party-in-intmest to the Plan, u defined by ERJSA

-12-

f a

: .-.

-, -jrrs-

.~

....... ....

...

~

~~

__..

--·

>
"'C

"'C
~

~
><

~

·---

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA

203

REPO RT OF THE GRAN D SECR ETAR Y

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M o/Cali fornia

:

Most Worshipful, and Brethren,
This is my seventh report to you as Grand Secretary. Mindf
ul of our very
full schedule, I will only cover a few items briefly. My
complete report will be
printed in the 1998 Proceedings.
First, our membership dipped below the 100,000 mark for
the first time
since 1922. In 1922, at the 73rc1 Annual Communication,
Grand Secretary John
Whicher reported that we had 93, 179 members. The next
year, in 1923, at the 74lh
Annual Communication, he reported that we had 100,283
members. The numbers
increased steadily after that, until we began our declin
e in 1966, after having
reached a peak of244 ,586 in 1965. In 1998 we have 101,17
3 members as of June
30, 1998, and when those whose dues were remitted by their
lodges are subtracted,
we had 98,376 who paid dues to our lodges, and for whom
the lodges paid a per
capita. The figures speak for themselves.
Secondly, on a more positive note, the combined
Secretaries'
Administrative Workshops and the Officers' Management
Workshops were well
attended, and feedback from those attending was very positiv
e. Six workshops
were offered in different parts of the jurisdiction, and
the teamwork between
secretaries on the one hand, and other lodge officers on the
other, was evident. Six
more workshops have already been announced for ~e next
Grand Lodge Year,
with the first beginning in November, and the last next
July. Secretaries'
Associations also continued to be an important communicat
ion link between the
Grand Lodge Office and our lodge secretaries. Ten are now
active, and an eleventh
one is on the way to being revived in the Fresno area. I
met with each of these
associations at least once, and on more than one occasion
with several.
Nineteen ninety-eight saw the installation of the new
Grand Lodge
Membership Database and a new computer system. The Grand
Lodge 0 ffice now
reports quarterly to each lodge on the status of its memb
ership, giving vital
feedback to lodges to ensure that information sent to us in
the monthly reports is
being accurately recorded. My thanks go to all the lodges
who worked so hard
with our staff to ensure the accuracy of the Grand Lodge
records.
Finally, I am pleased to report that the Grand Master extend
ed interim
recognition to three new Grand Lodges this year. The
first was formed in the
Canadian Province of Newfoundland and Labrador, the
second in the former
African country once known as Upper Volta, and now known
as Burkina Faso.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The last was fonned in the Republic of Bulgaria. I therefore move full recognition
be given to the following Grand Lodges.

EXHIBITS AND REPORTS

204

205

Membership Statistics
as of June 30, 1998

The Grand Lodge of Bulgaria
The Grand Lodge of Burkina Faso
The Grand Lodge of Newfoundland and Labrador

Respectfully submitted,
John L. Cooper III, PM

1994

I99S

1996

1997

1998

Initiated

1,489

1,342

1,222

l,12S

1,317

Passed

1,117

962

824

760

1,176

Raised

l,17S

1,020

788

817

1,219

*Affiliations (Calif.)

3,670

4,032

7S6

697

82S

(from other jurisdictions)

229

230

130

173

199

Restorations

241

228

148

16S

237

*Withdrawals

4,627

4,966

2,344

1,463

1,381

Suspensions N.P.D.

1,736

1,777

l,S32

l,S47

1,627

8

2

3

7

10

4,74S

4,493

3,829

3,S09

3,842

122,2S9

116,S31

110,227 1

IOS,SS3

101,173

Dues Remitted

2,901

2,874

2,800

2,604

2,797

Gains or Losses

(S,801)

(S,728)

(S,886)

(4,674)

(4,380)

471

4S6

448

437

424

Affiliations

Grand Secretary

Suspensions or Expulsions
(for cause)
Deaths
Total Membership

Number of Lodges as of7/l
(excluding Research)
New Lodges Formed
(incl. Research)

0

0

Lodge Charters Revoked

0

0

0

0

0

IS

8

12

14

IS

4S6

448

437

424

409

Lodges Lost Due To
Consolidations
Number of Lodges as of 6/30
(excluding Research)
1

As adjusted to reconcile lodge records and Grand Lodge records.

0

Fees for Degrees

Amount

1988

1998

Increase in

Amount

No. of Lodges

No. of Lodges

No. of Lodges

$50.00

43

22

57.00

0

I

60.00

2

6

No. of Lodges
21

3

65.00

3

75.00

85

48

0

2

37
2

0

78.00

1988

1998

Increase in

Decrease in

No. of Lodges

No. of Lodges

No. of Lodges

No. of Lodges

136.00

5

4

139.00

0

6

140.00

9

6

145.00

4

6

76.00

Decrease in

2

61.00

2

150.00

21

151.00

0

153.00

0

23

159.00

0

I

160.00

5

3

161.00

6

8

85.00

2

3

164.00

0

86.00

2

2

165.00

4

90.00

3

19

175.00

6

91.00

0

179.00

0

180.00

3

186.00

I

I

190.00

2

0

200.00

0

3

201.00

0

I

2

99.00

0

I

100.00

157

92

65

101.00

2

3

II
II

103.00

0

105.00

16

II0.00

I

111.00

9

II

2

114.00

0

3

3

Il5.00

54

36

116.00

0

9

7

18

120.00

II

121.00

0

3

8

I

I

0

250.00

0

I

261.00

0

265.00

0
0
568

1998 Average Fees= $108.20

123.00

0

125.00

76

41

35

126.00

3

0

3

130.00

0

2

131.00

2

134.50

0

I

135.00

7

6

2

2

2

3

1988 Average Fees= $105.75

122.50

3

215.00

Total Lodges

2
2

4

211.00

300.00
I

117.00

2

155.00

6

I

3

154.00

8

16

I

6

I

80.00

95.00

207

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE

206

406

2
3

3

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Annual Dues
Amount
1988

1998

Amount

No. of Lodges

No. of Lodges

$12.00

5

15.00

14

16.00

3

1988
No. of Lodges

1998

Increase in

No. of Lodges

No. of Lodges
45

Decrease in
No. of Lodges

60.00

I

46

64.00

0

I

I

3

2

65.00

0

9

9

2

12

66.00

I

3

70.00

0

4

4

0

9

9

0

Increase in
No. of Lodges

0

18.00

29

7

22

75.00

20.00

26

9

17

78.00

7

80.00

0

0

6

85.00

0

21.00

8

22.00

6

22.50

Total Lodges

568

24.00

30

8

22

25.00

48

21

27

26.00

5

0

5

1988 Average Dues = $31.67
1998 Average Dues= $43.80

27.00

2

I

I

28.00

9

2

7
79

30.00

124

45

31.00

I

0

32 .00

7

3

32.50

4

0

33.00

4

0

34.00

I

0

1

35 .00

45

16

29

23

46
19

4

36.00

69

38.00

2

40.00

63

44

41.00

0

3

42.00

II

5

44.00

I

45.00

17

24

46.00

2

2

48.00

II

32

21

50.00

16

51

35

3
6
7

47.00

51.00

0

2

2

52.00

2

6

4

54.00

0

55.00

3

3

15

14

1

2

100.00

0

406

209
Decrease in
No. of Lodges

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amendments to By-Laws

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

211

Lakeside No. 760 to $50; Oak Plains No. 789 to $55; and Fremont No.
825 to $65.

Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws (C.M C. Section 19040-19050):
Charity Committee (C.MC. Section 19040, Article X):

Gemini No. 825 - Changed name to Fremont No. 825.
Stated Meetings (C.MC. Section 19040, Article Ill):
Changing Time: Crescent No. 45; Illinoistown No. 51; Arcata No. l 06;
Franklin No. 143; Claiborne No. 185; Oakland Durant Rockridge No.
188; Mosaic No. 218; Sisson-White Pine No. 310; Temecula Catalina
Island No. 524; and Oak Plains No. 789.
Changing Place: Franklin No. 143; Sisson-White Pine No. 31 O; and Oak
Plains No. 789.
Table of Fees (C.MC. Section 19040, Article VIII):
Increasing: San Joaquin No. 19; San Bernardino No. 178; Pasadena No.
272; Coronado No. 441; and Atascadero No. 493.
Dues (C.MC. Section 19040, Article IX):
Increasing: San Joaquin No. 19 to $60; Howard No. 37 to $60; Union Kit
CarsonNo.58to$65;Woodbrid geNo. l31 to$35;EelRiverNo.147to
$48; San Bernardino No. 178 to $50; Oakland Durant Rockridge No. 188
to $24; Northern Light No. 190 to $66; King David No. 209 to $80;
Roseville No. 222 to $40; Reading No. 254 to $85; Olive Branch No. 269
to $54; Fillmore Santa Paula No. 291 to $60; Redlands No. 300 to $60;
Porterville-Lindsay No. 303 to $75; Oxnard No. 341 to $70; Palo AltoRoller No. 346 to $40; Turlock No. 395 to $45; Fraternity No. 399 to $75;
Perris No. 411 to $52; Holtville No. 425 to $50; Lancaster No. 437 to
$60; Coronado No. 441 to $48; Atascadero No. 493 to $50; North
Hollywood No. 542 to $78; East San Diego No. 561 to $65; El Cajon
Valley No. 576 to $50; Victorville No. 634 to $60; John D. SpreckelsNo.
657 to $60; Anacapa No. 710 to $65; Oasis of Mara No. 735 to $55;

Increasing: Table Mountain No. 124 to $250; Francis Drake No. 376 to
$250; Clovis No. 417 to $500; and Montebello No. 451 to $250.
Life Membership (C.MC. Section 27020):

Howard No. 37; Eel River No. 147; Oakland Durant Rockridge No. 188;
Roseville No. 222; Olive Branch No. 269; Alisal-Sequoia-San Ramon
No. 321; Artesia No. 377; Turlock No. 395; El Cajon Valley No. 576;
A.M. Daylight No. 625; Yucaipa No. 726; Fremont No. 825; and Santa
Clara Valley Daylight No. 844.

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Consolidation of Lodges

Trial Records

All requirements of the law with respect to consolidation of Lodges
having been complied with, authorization is requested to properly endorse the
charters of these Lodges as follows:

213

No. 2219

A memberofVitruvius Lodge No. 145. Grand Lodge Records
of 1985 corrected to show penalty of suspension. Petition for
Restoration properly approved by the Lodge.

No. 2330
West Gate Loyalty No. 529 and Westchester Menorah No. 572, effective
November 1, 1997, to be known as Southern California No. 529.

A member of Vista Lodge No. 687, expelled in 1992. Petition
for Restoration was denied.

No. 2383

San Clemente No. 671 and Irvine No. 841, effective November l, 1997,
to be known as Irvine Valley No. 671.

A member of South West Lodge No. 283. Penalty set at
expulsion.

No. 2388

San Ramon Valley No. 724 and Alisal Sequoia No. 321, effective
November 1, 1997, to be known as Alisal Sequoia San Ramon No. 321.

A member of Home Lodge No. 721, suspended in 1997.
Petition for Restoration properly approved by the Lodge.

No. 2398

A member of Enterprise Lodge No. 70. Penalty set at expulsion.

Fountain Valley No. 351 and Garden Grove No. 505, effective December
I, 1997, to be known as Acacia Grove No. 351.

No. 2404

A member of Composite Lodge No. 595.
expulsion.

Woodland No. 81 and Grafton No. 141, effective December 1, 1997, to
be known as Woodland No. 81.

No. 2405

A member of Tehama Lodge No. 3. Trial Commission found
the accused Not Guilty.

Point Pinole No. 337 and Alpha Shattuck Stephens No. 431, effective
December 2, 1997, to be known as Bay Cities No. 337.

No. 2406

A member of Pasadena Lodge No. 272. Penalty set at expulsion.

No. 2407

Santa Rosa No. 57 and Luther Burbank No. 752, effective December 13,
1997, to be known as Santa Rosa Luther Burbank No. 57.

A memberof Alhambra Lodge No. 322. Penalty increased from
suspension to expulsion.

No. 2408

Huntington Beach No. 380 and WestBeachNo. 616, effective January 1,
1998, to be known as Huntington Beach No. 380.

·A member of Antioch-Brentwood Lodge No. 175. Penalty set
at expulsion.

No. 2409

Temescal No. 314 and Victoria Palms No. 810, effective January 24,
1998, to be known as Temescal Palms No. 314.

A memberoflmperial Lodge No. 390. Penalty increased from
suspension to expulsion.

No. 2410

A member of San Dimas Lodge No. 428.
expulsion.

No. 2411

A member of North Hollywood Lodge No. 542. Trial
Commission verdict of Not Guilty was reversed and new trial
ordered.

ClarenceE. Fraser No. 294 and Orosi No. 383, effective July 1, 1998, to
be known as Dinuba-Orosi No. 294.

No. 2412

A member of Pasadena Lodge No. 272. Penalty set at expulsion

Tuolumne No. 8 and East Belt No. 391, effective July 1, 1998, to be
known as East Belt-Tuolumne No. 8.

For the complete report of the Trial Review Committee on the above
Trials, please refer to Appendix "K" of these Proceedings.

Fidelity No. 120 and San Francisco No. 139, effective February 1, 1998,
~as San Francisco No. 120.
Upland No. 419 and Mount Baldy No. 815, effective March 1, 1998, to
be known as Upland-Mt. Baldy No. 419.

Alturas No. 248 and Canby Cross No. 679, effective August 1, 1998, to
be known as Alturas Canby Cross No. 248.
Orinda No. 494 and Alamo No. 122, effective August 1, 1998, to be
known as Orinda No. 122.

Penalty set at

Penalty set at

214

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Golden Veterans Awards
Issued October I, 1997 to September 30, 1998 - 1,075
Total 50 Year Buttons Issued to Date - 45,777
Total 75 Year Buttons Issued to Date - 123

Raised Date

215

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

Ldg.No.

Recipient's Name

26

Comeveaux, G.W. Sr.... 2/28/48

41

Wilhite, Robert William . 3/11148

26

Hansen, Arvid L. . . . . . . . 5120148

41

Brackman, William H .... 3/25/48

26

Morris, Ray S .......... 3/29/47

42

Weiner, Irwin ......... 10/27/47

Raised Date

26

Turner, Elton L......... 5/19/48

43

King, Elmer G. . ....... 4/22/48

27

Hunt, Robert E. . ........ 4/6/48

43

Moyle, James R ....... 10/29/43

Ldg.No.

Recipient's Name

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

Raised Date

27

Mercer, Richard L. ..... 6/17/47

43

Trurnbly, Claibourne W .. 4/21/48

I

Ames, William T ....... 2119/48

10

Zanker, William D ...... 7/26/48

27

Payne, Benjamin L. ...... 6/1148

45

Wells, Oran D.......... 6124141

Raised Date

Athan, Byron D. . ..... 10/21/47

10

Van Hom, Chester F ..... 6/28/48

27

Sebring, Harold F. Jr. . .. 5/30/47

45

Finley, Raymond E...... 4/24/48

Bergman, Karl R. Jr.... 11/10/47

12

Cavagnaro, Leon C ...... 6115146

27

Chudzinski, Steven T .... 8/18/47

50

Chambers, Bernard G .... 9/18/48

Dobel, Robert F ........ 5/11/45

12

Kernan, Cornelius ...... 9/23/47

30

Lay, Kermit R. Sr....... 2111/47

51

Randall, Thomas H ...... 7/17/48

Alberts, Frederick L. Jr ... 2114/48

12

Moses, Albert 0 ......... 8/6/47

30

Ellis, James R. ......... 4/24/48

56

Stevenson, Lewis James . 8/20/4 7

Hellender, Arthur R. ... 10/20/47

12

Sawyer, Edmund V ...... 2125141

30

Lee, Albert D. . ........ 2/24/48

56

Steinsiek, Howell E ..... 7/22/48

Hueter, Ernest B ........ 6/21148

12

Van Valkenburg, James C. 219148

30

Onstot, Clair B. . . . . . . . 11 /17 /45

58

Merksamer, Walter .... 10/18/38

Kockos, William A. ..... 2114/48

12

Walker, Harold A ....... 8/29/47

30

Potts, Jack W. . ........ 4/20/46

61

Watts, Donald E........ 3/16/48

Lauer, Harley C. Jr...... 9/22/47

13

Cleaver, Harlan M. . .... 1122148

30

Sciutto, Silvio ......... 6126146

64

Canfield, Claude J ..... 12127/45

Lauer, Walter R. ....... 9/22/47

13

Harrison, Kenneth G ..... 3/30/48

30

Stendell, Elvin C ....... 2127/46

64

Burnett, David W ....... 5122141

Lentz, Robert 0. . ...... 8/19/47

13

Michell, Robert L ....... 5/16/47

30

Travis, Gilbert M. . ...... 619148

64

Corwin, Myron F ....... 6/16/47
Kanoff, Roy E. . . . . . . . . . . 519146

Mac Jennett, Albert J ... 10/27/47

13

Young, Allan W ........ 1/24/48

33

Grexton, Roland M ..... 12/10/47

64

Martens, Jack W ....... 11124/47

13

Carpenter, Darrel E ...... 5115144

33

Pelley, Edward F ...... 11/27/45

65

Morrow, William M. . . . . 6/15/48

Mc Kinley, Howard M. Jr. 3/27/47

·16

Goodall, Allen N. . ..... 3/30/48

33

Sink, Lewis B .......... 11/3/45

65

Walker, Richard L..... 10/30/47

Mohr, Warren G ........ 9/23/46

19

Atwood, Douglas E. . ... 6/26/48

33

Fleming, Basil A. ....... 7/24/47

65

Blodgett, Charles M. . . . . 10/9/47

Sonne, Albert R. ...... 10/20/47

19

Ferguson, David Lee ... 12122/47

35

DeWoskin, Albert ...... 7/17/47

68

Berner, Ernest P. . ...... 6/29/48

Vonk, James J .......... 2114/48

19

Hood, Hugh L. ......... 2113/46

35

Dickson, Edwin A. . .... 4/20/48

68

Clark, Walter F .......... 4/3/48

Whittemore, Donald G .. 10/23/47

19

Huckins, Roger M. . . . . . . 518148

35

Collins, Max F. . . . . . . . . . 411 /48

68

Doyle, William R ........ 514148

2

Bystle, William A. Jr.... 2/10/48

19

Larson, Arthur W ....... 6/28/48

35

James Robert B ......... 3/29/48

68

Dunn, Gordon H ....•... 1219/47

2
2

Crawford, Jack 0 ...... 10/27/47

19

Low, Lawrence K. . . . . . . 3/30/48

35

Johnston, Robert M. . ... 1115/47

68

Harding, Bernard B. .... 4/24/48

Downs, John L......... 11/8/47

19

Low, William G. . ...... 3/30/48

35

Judy, Charles H ........ 11/3/47

68

Harman, Kenneth B ..... 9/14/48

2

Leas, Chas. E. . . . . . . . • . . 8/6/48

19

Mack, George E ....... 11/21/44

35

Les Perance, Rodney P .. 11121147

68

Harmon, Robert A. . .... 3/12/48

2

Linebarger, Richard W .... 6/9/48

19

Plummer, Alfred E ..... 12/21/42

37

Van Over, Wilbur M .... 10/15/47

68

Helton, Carlos W ....... 1118/47

2

Patterson, Marvin L. .... 3/23/48

19

Schroeder, Robert . . . . . . 3/11148

37

Player, Joseph C. . . . . . . . 3/14/48

68

Jackson, Thurman R. . . . . 7110/48

.

2

Bayless, Marvin M ...... 2112/46

19

Settle, Walter R. ....... 4/28/47

38

Castro, Ralph J .....•.... 4/8/47

68

Keith, George B. Jr...... 7/17/48

2

Sandbloom, William R. .. 5120148

19

Tucker, William A. . ..... 4/2/48

38

Burdette, A.B. ........ 11129/47

68

Kincaid, Hal P ........ 10/21147

3
3
3

De Coe, Tisdale P ........ 219148

19

Wear, Jack E ............ 4/2/48

38

Holmes, Lawrence K. .. 11/20/47

68

Lease, Chauncey Azro Jr. 3/15/48

Zell, William M. . . . . . . . 2126/48

19

Whittall, Albert J. . . . . . 10/25/47

38

Ickes, Ivan J. . ......... 5122145

68

Runnels, Blaine ........ 4/20/48

Crews, Elden B. . . . . . . . . 3/22/48

20

Audet, Charles W ....... 6/17/48

38

Polglase, Le Roy F ....... 3/6/48

68

Spencer, Horace A. . . . . . . 615148

8

Curnow, William C. . ... 4120145

20

Davis, Bob ........... 12113/47

38

Polley, Meredith V....... 1nl41

68

Stewart, Donald R. . .... 4122148

8

De Ferrari, Carlo M. . . . . 1111147

20

Fales, Earl M. . ....... I 1/22147

38

Smith, Ernest Leroy ..... 5/11148

68

Williams, James E....... 7/8/48
Womble, Earl D ........ 6/25/47

8

Bass, William L. ....... 4/16/47

20

Anderson, Harry ....... 2120/47

38

Taylor, Samuel C ....... 6/23/47

68

8

Jones, Veryl H. . ....... 3/19/48

23

Laird, John D .......... 1129146

38

Whitsell, Leon J. ....... 5122145

70

Decker, Lloyd L. . . . . . . 11130/46

8

Waltz, Herbert E....... 11111147

23

Northwood, Robert L. . . . 1131148

41

Huffman, Walton H ..... 3/21146

70

Stevenson, Claire ....... 1/13/48

8

Weinberger, Richard C ... 5125146

23

Simmons, Dale E....... 5/10/47

41

Kamberg, James A. . . . . . 5120148

70

Carleton, Frank G ....... 8/26/48

9

Semans, Arthur W. . .... 6/18/47

23

Sleep, George W. Jr..... 9/21146

41

Thorp, Norman A....... 2121148

78

Beck, Lindley H ....... 11/22/47

10

Wool, Ernest 0. Jr. . .... 9/I5/47

25

Manes, Richard 0 ....... 5/19/48

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Raised Date

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Raised Date

Raised Date

217

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

Ldg.No.

Recipient's Name

78

Laster, Eldon C ......... 7/10/47

120

Brittain, Ronald A. . . . . . 2/23/48

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

128

Westcott, Emerson ...... 4/29/47

198

Beckett, Lloyd W ....... 5/28/47

78

Pool, Daniel A. ........ 5/27/47

120

Bryan, George H. Jr.... 11/18/47

78

Sturr, Harold L. ....... 12/16/47

120

Carter, Rohen H. Jr. . ... 8/28/47

128

Kellmann, Bernhard P. . . I ln/46

198

Mercer, Charles N ...... 6/25/47

129

Bentley, John E. . ....... 4n/47

198

84

Cox, James E .......... 8/20/47

120

Cavender, Henry A. . . . . . I /28/48

131

Van Dyke, Sherwood A. .. 8/4/47

Fox, George D. . . . . . . . . 8/27 /48

202

Proctor, Richard H ...... 1/21/48

84

Benson, Edward L. . .... 2/25/48

120

Conklin, Johnnie ....... 5/26/47

134

84

Maupin, Owen L. ....... 1/30/46

120

Daniels, Henry M. . . . . . . 8/15/46

136

Meyer, Rohen H. ....... 4/25/47

202

Watson, George P ....... 5/19/48

Mc Fall, Louis R. ....... 1/20/48

202

87

Davis, Harold C ....... 10/30/47

120

Davis, William J ........ 6/21/47

143

Dixon, Philip R. Jr. ..... 2/11/47

Martin, John L. ........ 1/17/45

204

Decker, Dean K. ...... 11/21/47

87

Hull, Melvin K. ........ 2/26/47

120

Frandsen, Carl A. . . . . . . . 8/20/4 7

144

87

Moore, Ivan G. . .. . .... 6/24/48

120

Glassman, Ellis . . . . . . . . . 7/8/48

144

Lakin, David L. ........ 8121146

204

Bein, George E ........ 10/14/46

Henkel, Frederick L. . ... 9/30/47

204

87

Brady, Paul W ........ 11/10/47

120

Hontalas, John M. . ..... 8/13/48

146

Federer, Walter T ....... 8/14/44

Brown, Milton R. ....... 9/26/47

204

Feliz, Donald V. . .. • ... 9/12/47

93

Bush, William 0 ........ 5124/47

120

Jahn, George W ........ 1/21148

146

93

Beard, Edgar D .......... 7/8/48

120

Lando, Myron H ........ 3/13/47

146

Eversole, Walter R. ..... 8/29/47

204

Jackson, James A. . ...... 21514 7

Thornton, James C ...... 5/21148

204

93

Campbell, Ernest G. . ... 4122/48

120

Laurie, Charles M. . . . . . . 8/26/48

149

Youmans, Robin P...... 5/26/47

Peck, Frederick A. III ... 4/25/47

207

Comstock, Wilbur L ..... 5/16/47

93

Drawsky, Roben A. . . . . I 0/22/48

120

Magner, Toby Jr. ...... 7/29/48

149

95

Vukovich, John V ........ 519148

120

Mauser, Donald H. . . . . 11113/47

161

Riley, Samuel B ........ 4/21148

209

Brown, Rohen R. ....... 9/24/47

Manin, Herman P ...... 10/23/46

209

101

Peevyhouse, Wilburn G .. 1/13/48

120

Rybensky, William S .... 2/23/48

161

Tower, Howard J. . ..... 5122148

Farrell, Victor M ......... 212/48

209

Garrigus, Homer M . . . . . 1017/47

101

Quinn, Leo C .......... 4/10/48

120

Spencer, Ralph T. . ..... 8/25/48

167

IOI

Keskeys, Rohen R. . . . . I 0/1114 7

120

Zemansky, Kenneth J .... 2/13/47

167

Redeker, Clark W ........ 7/3/46

209

Littenberg, George L. . . I 0/20/48

Schroder, Sherman F. Jr... 8/8/46

209

IOI

Quinn, Kenneth A. . . . . . . 4/10/48

122

Hull, William M. Jr. . ... 2/25/47

167

Parry, John A. ......... 4/25/47

Lucksinger, Fred H ...... 7/23/47

209

Mc Intyre, Frederick J. . . 8/28/46

103

Carter, Allon F. . ....... 6/15/48

122

Berrie, Marion H ....... 7/20/48

168

Mohlfeldt, William L. ... 6/19/48

209

Ovesen, William A. .... 11/26/47

103

Mockabee, Henry C ..... 2/16/48

122

Berry, Rohen M ........ 9/23/47

168

Wood, Rohen H ........ 2/24/48

209

Snodgrass, John W ..... 12/26/47

103

Weston, Rohen L. ..... 11/25/47

122

Dawson, Elliott P ....... 6/12/47

168

De Polo, John L. ....... 5/19/48

209

Stornetta, Howard John . I 0/22/4 7

103

Brown, Emery L. . . . . . . I 0/25/46

122

Ford, Ronald M. . ...... 5/27/48

169

Chicos, Sllll] W ........ 10/15/47

209

Wimberly, Henry D ..... 9/29/48

110

Bass, Leo D. . ......... 5125148

122

Foster, Fred J .......... 5/29/47

169

Christakes, Chris ....... 6127/47

210

Barr, Gilben R. .. .. .. . 12/12/46

110

Babcock, Arthur P. Jr.... 8/26/46

122

Adam, Leonard . . . . . . . . 4/22/48

169

Hall, Richard E ........ 11125/47

210

Rexroad, Rohen A. . ... 11/29/45

110

Martin, Stanley A. ...... 8/28/47

122

Inman, Leslie E ......... 8/19/47

169

O'Connor, Patrick K. ... 10/14/47

210

Strachan, Armon G ...... 1219/43

Raised Date

Ill

Coy, Rohen M. . . . . . . . . 6/22/48

122

Ivanoff, Sergei N. . ..... 5/29/47

169

Peters, Gilben L. . . . . . . . 8/27/4 7

210

Turner, Charles W ..... 10/18/46

111

Dorsey, Clark N ........ 1127/48

122

Monlux, Armand L. ..... 6/19/47

I69

Schlichting, Herman C. Jr. 2/24/48

210

Woodling, Rohen W. . .. 3/25/48

Ill

Hardison, Loren D. . .... 1125/48

122

Sundell, Donald A ...... 5/15/47

175

Johnson, Raymond ..... 4/23/48

210

Anderson, Glennwood E. . 4/3/48

Ill

Harris, William J. . .... 12/20/47

122

Tregaskis, Vernon L. .... 5/16/47

178

Henson, Charles E. . .... 1/26/48

212

Hodges, Clyde ......... 1/30/48

Ill

Barber, Alden G ........ 6/30/43

122

Wall, Howard J .......... 2/9/48

178

Heron, John M. Sr. . .... 6/29/48

212

Brorby, Donald J. . ..... 4/18/46

Ill

Phillips, Elvin E. . . . . . . . 3/2114 7

124

Brown, Garold G. . ...... 215148

178

Mc Kelvey, Russell

..... 7n/47

215

Campbell, Victor H. . . . 12/18/47

Ill

Smith, Harold L. . . . . . . . . 6/2/48

124

Darting, Lawrence H. Jr.. 9/11/48

178

Miller, Eugene M ....... 12/5/47

215

Henson, Jack R. . . . . . . . . 5/14/4 7

112

Tandy, Gordon D....... 3/26/47

124

Furlow, Floyce E ...... 12111147

178

Small, Melvin J. Jr..... 11/20/47

215

Heyse, Stanley C ....... 1212/47

117

Erickson, Franklin E ..... 3/27/48

124

Green, John W ......... 7/17/48

178

Entrikin, George B ...... 7122147

215

Jack, Chester L. ....... 12/13/47

117

Erickson, Auburn A. . . . . 3/27 /48

124

Jones, Kenneth L. . ..... 3/26/48

180

Young, Gordon L. . ..... 6/17 /48

215

Journeay, Joseph V...... 8/23/47

117

King, Stanley G. . ...... 4/22148

124

Mc Ewen, David S. . . . . . 2/24/48

182

Gillaspy, Phillip H ..... 12/22/42

215

Katen, Rohen L. . . . . . . . . 518148

117

Erickson, Harrington W. . 3/27/48

124

Rahm,DavidG........ 10/17/47

183

Lee, Elton J ............. 6/3/48

215

Mattison, Donald E ...... 10/3/47

120

Bass, Hoyt E .......... 10/15/47

124

Shelton, Lloyd H. . ..... 2/26/48

187

Connell, Dale B. . ...... 1/20/47

215

Oppenheimer, James L. . . 9/30/48

120

Becot, Preston F.B. . .... 8/15/47

124

Stone, Orman T. Jr...... 2110/48

188

Vickerson, Henry W ..... 8/26/47

215

Perusina, Nicholas S ..... 2127 /48

120

Benard, Joseph J ........ 8/12/48

124

Swanson, Lawrence A. . .. 214/37

192

Jones, Richard V ........ 7/19/47

215

Schafer, Alben R. ..... 12/11/47

120

Bidwell, Rohen L ....... 9/22/47

128

Lunstra, Mitchell . . . . . . . 1119/46

192

Freidell, Hugh V........ 8/28/47

215

Smith, Rodney B. . .... 10/29/45

218
Ldg.No.
215
215
215
215
218
220
220

220
220
220
220
220
220
220
220
222
224
230
230
237
237
237
240
241
241
242
242
242
242
242
243
244
244
244
245
245
245

245
246
246
247
247

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Taylor, Ernest L.... ... . 8/18/48
Wagner, Lloyd A. Jr..... 6/22/48
Walker, Clarence C..... 8/14/48
West, David H. Jr.. .. ... 5/29/48
Gardella, Louis Jr . .. . . 12/10/47
Boyd, Byron J. . . . . . . . . I0/20/41
Bush, Merle R.......... 7/30/48
Carver, Donald L. . . . . . 12117/46
Dickerson, Jesse S. . . ... 12/8/47
Anderson, Ame N....... 3/11/47
Kinzy, Clifford V....... 8/22/47
Kraybill, Daniel W.. .. .. 9/18/47
Pierce, Roy L. . . . . . . . . . 6/29/48
Snyder, Lewis P.... .. .. 7/29/47
Williams, William D. .. 10/27/47
Carr, Lawrence L. ...... 8/16/47
Humphrey, Kenneth S. . 10/27/48
Wiser, Harry M........ 12/16/47
Cobeen, Vilas D....... 12123/47
Smith, Harry S...... . .. 6/27/47
Terry, Forrest H. . ... .. 10121/47
Conrad, Joseph G. Jr. ... 11/29/46
Sellman, George W. Jr . . 11/29/46
Sloan, 0 . Max . ...... . .. 8/9/47
Carnahan, William L. ... 3/17/48
Fickett, Franklin I. ..... 11/19/47
Leavick, Franklin M.. ... 3/30/48
Chappell, Rayburn L. . . 11/25/47
Leslie, Clarence A. . ... 11/13/47
Pattillo, James L... .. . . . 6/19/48
Lopachuk, William G..... 517/48
Kaprielian, Robert M. . .. 6/16/48
Miller, Henry F.... .. . . . 1/28/48
Ginger, Willard J...... 11/26/47
Huddle, Clarence N. Jr.. 10/28/47
Jolley, Jay L... . ... . .. 11121/47
Leonard, John E. . ... ... 5/16/47
Pitt, Robert M. . . . . . . . . . 9120146
Titus, Jay D.......... 10/26/48
Frater, Eugene B........ 6/29/48
Boos, David ........... 6/17/48
Buck, Kenneth C. . . . . . 11/20/47

Ldg.No.
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
247
250
250
250

255
255
255
255
256
256
259
259
259
259
259
259
264
264
264
264
269
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Finley, Frank H. ....... 10/22/47
Frantz, Everett H. . ..... 4/19/47
Levy, Herbert Jr..... ... 12/5/47
Long, Robert F. . . . . . . . . . 5/8/48
Martin, Jack V. . ... ... . 8/13/47
Maxey, Louis J. Jr..... . 5/30/47
Mecartea, Bruce . . . . . . . . 10/2/47
Mortland, John A. ..... 10/30/47
Scott, William T.. . . .. . . 8/14/47
Smalridge, Jack L. . . . . . 10/30/47
Smith, Fred C.. . .. ... . 10/25/47
Stoudt, Leland A. ....... 4/16/48
Stout, Earl . . . . . . . . . . . 10/27/43
Wallace, Merle L. ... ... 6/30/48
Bracy, Carl V......... . 6/24/48
Mc Closkey, Verne W.. 10/21/47
Bosworth, Robert D. Sr. . 7/24/48
Dearman, Frank W. . . ... 8/10/45
Card, Jack H... . .. . ... 10121/46
Kibele, Eugene L. . . . . . . 6/28/46
Peterson, Ralph H. ...... 9/19/46
Hoyt, Lyle S... . ....... 3/30/42
Herrick, Robert E. • . . . . . 8/26/48
Cross, Irving L... . ... . 12111/46
Blazzard, Norman J.... 11/15/47
Fulmor, Alfred C.. .... 10/24/47
Holcomb, Wayne H. . . . . 9/26/47
Williams, Raymond N. . . 6/30/44
Wortz, James M. . . .... 10/26/46
Clark, Francis L. ... .. .. 2/26/43
Hjalmarson, John A.. ... 5/27/47
Smith, Marion A. . . . . . . . 3/22148
Barr, Tilden L.......... 9/15/4 7
Gardner, EdgarW ....... 5122141
Austin, Robert W. . . . . . . 5/27 /48
Baker, Harrison R. Jr. . .. 9/23/48
Anderson, Frank P. . ... . 2123/48
Cain, Ralph E....... . . . 6/26/48
Davis, Irvin E. . .. .. . ... 4/21 /48
Ells, Edward S. ....... 11/23/38
Hammock, Edward W... 4/15/48
Jennings, John M..... .. 1/26/48

Ldg. No.
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
272
274
274
274
274
274
278
278
278
278
278
278
278
278
278
278
278
279
279
279
280
280
280
280
280
280
281
281
286

Redpient's Name
Raised Date
King, Reginald E. . . . . . . 3/29/48
Lytle, Robert Eugene . . . . 7/22148
Mc Nutt, Lee H. . . . ... . . 5/24/48
Murphy, Gerald E. . . . ... 7/21/47
Nassif, Floyd A. ....... . 7/20/46
Pavlis, Frederick W..... 4/21/47
Preece, Robert N. . . . . . . . . 5/8/48
Ransom, Lawrence E. . . . 5/26/48
Roose, Beverley J. . .... . 5/15/47
Samerjian, Stephen B. Jr. 1/12148
Stewart, Russell S. .. .... 6/16/4 7
Wallace, George K. . . . . . 3/22/48
Wallace, Elmer F. . .... . 4/22148
Willcox. Jonas C. . ..... 8/22145
Dearden, Robert C. . ... . . 9/4/47
Myers, Edward W. . .... . 2/22148
Pence, John 0 . ......... 9/20/44
Spangler, Richard E.. . .. 6/26/47
Braun, Carl H. ........ . 2124/47
Adams, Carl E... .. . . .. 9/19/47
Baughman, Donald B .... 7/16/47
Crawford, Charley P... .. 6/13/47
Deming, Sil]leon F. .... . 7/30/47
Hunter, Daniel D. . .. ... 5120141
Jackson, E. Frailey . . . . . 12/18/46
Klise, Albert B. .. .. ... . 9/24/47
Moore, John M...... . . . 2/21/47
Morris, Donald W.... . . . 6/24/47
Robinson, Gaither E..... 4/22/47
Swensson, Robert E.... . 9/10/47
Forrester, James K. . . . . . . 2/3/48
Ross, James B. ...... ... 9/12/47
Downing, Chester R. Jr. . 9/10/48
Coyle, William E. ... ... 3/16/48
Rustigian, Barj A.. .. . .. 7/19/47
Cardwell, Jack L... . .... 6/27/47
Schneider, Melvin P..... 10/6/47
Van Bubar, John W. . . . .. 6/9/47
Walker, William G.C.... 11/3/47
Hard, George G. Jr. . ... . 5/15/48
Gastineau, Alfred C.... 10/30/47
Miller, Raymond A. ..... 6/28/47

Ldg. No.
287
287
290
290
290
290
290
290
290
290
290
290

290
290
290

290
290
290
290
291
292
292
292
292
292
293
293
293
293
293
296
296
296
296
299
299
300
300
300
300
300
302

219

Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Peck, Harold K. .... .... 4/13/48
Vana, Edward J. . . . . . . . . 3/25/48
Hutchins, Roy D. . .... . . 7/31/47
De La barra, Arthur E. . . 11/14/47
Edgar, Harold F... . . ... 5120147
Edwards, Junior L.... . . 11/26/47
Fisher, Charles E. . ... . . 7/18/47
Hill, Robert S. . . . . . . . . 12121/48
Berg, Clifford A. . ...... 6/11/47
Jessee, William L. ..... 10/30/47
Lantz, Ralph F... . .. . .. 9/.30/46
Lundy, Earl B. .... .. ... 6/28/48
Mooney, Thomas A. . .. 10/15/48
Owen, Arnold L. . . . . . . . 3/29/48
Pennington, Gemmy L... 9/16/47
Schweitzer, William G.. 10/27/47
Wessel, Harry L.P ... . ... 1/30/48
West, Val M.A. .. . ...... 3/3/47
Wulfkuhle, Richard L. .. 11/30/48
Hatcher, Norman L. .. .. . 5/27/48
Drake, Stephen ........ 2/26/48
Matheny, Orrin E. . . . .. 11/14/46
Patton, Kermitt C. . . ..... 3/8/45
Carroll, George L. . . . . . . 2/19/48
Swisher, Fred S......... 6/11 /48
Higgins, Floyd D... . .. . 4/13/48
Lawrence, Hubbard A. Jr. 4/12/48
Smith, George A.. ..... . 1/20/48
Crawford, Alfred B. ..... 1122/43
Swan, Claude F. Jr . .... 11/22143
Rens, Ehner E. ....... . . 9/21/46
Spears, August L. . . . . . . l /14/48
Williams, Robert L. ..... 9/24/47
Buchanan, Otto ........ 7/16/48
Dooley,GeraldW ...... 10/17/47
Molloy, Leslie A........ 8/22/44
Bell, Paul E. ...... . .... 5/19/47
De Mirjyn, Charles G.... 2/20/48
Hurley, Laurence U...... 6/6/47
Baker, Robert T. . . .. ... 1/28/47
Runkel, John F.... . ... 10/13/47
Porter, William H. . ..... 1/17/46

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

220

Raised Date

221

Ldg.No.

Recipient's Name

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

302

Head, William M . . ... . . 1/22/48

314

327

305

Kentner, Kenneth A .. .. 10/31/46
Page, John L. ...... . ... 3/27/47

314

Figeira, John H. . . . . . . . . . 8/9/45
Loporto, Tony J. . . . . . . . 3/25/48

Rodgers, Ralph F.. . . . .. 1/23/48
Walker, Charles E.. .... . 1/23/48

351

328

Placido, John J . . .... . .. 6/16/47
Beach, Manly L. .. .. . ... 811/46

317

Christensen, Walter P . ... 6/15/47
Shields, Robert E. . . . . . . 5112/4 7

331

Dowdy, George W ....... 617145
O'Donovan, Fred W . . ... 3/21/46

351

Shipley, Ronald G. Jr. ... 5122146
Snell, Merrill W.. . ..... 2/25/47

331

Routen, Eugene V. . . . . . . 9/11 /46

355

Burbank, Farnum M . .. . .. 8/8/46

331

355

Pearce, John C. . ....... 9/16/47
Fulkerson, Thomas W . .. 10/2/48
Hicks, Verne . .... . .... 5/19/48

331

Turner, Robert P. ....... 7125146
Boone, William R. Jr.... 4/16/48

Entwistle, Milton R . . . . . 9/27/47
Bullock, John W .. . .. ... 4/25/46

332

Packard, Mervin A. . . . . . 5/19/48
Roberts, William E. Jr. . . 5122145

332

Biegel, Russell H. Jr . . . .. 5/22/48

362

332

Gentry, Joseph .. . ...... 4/19/47
Mottinger, Vernon R.... 10/9/46

362

305
305
305

Raised Date

315
317

305

Russell, Robert D.... ... 7/24/47

317

305

317

305

Ulch, Charles H. . . . . . . . 6/10/47
Wellington, Frank A.. . . . 7/17/47

305

Williams, Jack E.. ... . .. 6/27/46

320

305

Wirth, William O.P ...... . 6/4/47

320

306

Groves, Oliver S. . . . . . . . . 3/5/48
Hawkes, William C. . .. . 9/16/48

321

Isgrig, Doran D. ....... . 9/11 /48
Cleveland, Walter C ..... 3/26/47

320

Raised Date

327

332

334

Boyd, Robert A... . . .... 8/16/46
Forsyth, David S . .. . . . . 11115/47

Ldg. No.

Recipient's Name

351

Gutmann, Walter K. .. . . 2/22/47
Jacobson, Oscar V. . .... 4123/46

351

355
357
357

Raised Date

Jordan, Vernon C . ... .. . 6/23/47
Ewing, Clarence C . .. ... 1/22/46

Hesse, William M . .... .. 5122147
Pherrin, Frank M . .... . 10/29/47
Rogers, John M. . . . . . . . 1213/46
Campbell, Kenneth L. ... 4/22147
Engle, Clyde S ..... ... 10/22/46

321

Wall, Giles A. . . . .. .... 3/24/32
Le Ballister, Milton L . .. . 9/23/47

336

Hancock, William H.. . .. 1017147

363

Templeton, Scott A . ..... 9/27/46

322

Caudry, Jack . . ...... . 10/22143

337

363

322

Laine, Carl E. ....... .. . 7/11146
Burke, Talmage V . . .. . 10123/46

337
337

363

Andronico, John F. ..... 9/17/46
Waite, Robert B .. .. . .. 11114/46

307

Barteaux, Walter D .. .. . . 2125141
Beem, Harry N .. . . .. .. . 6/28/47

Light, Triness F. . ... ... 3/29/47
Webb, Richard W . . . . ... 9/21/48

307

Bender, Lowell V . . ... . . 6/12148

322

338

366

307

Boucher, Kenneth H. .... 6/28/47
Ball, William C. Jr... .. 11113/45

322

Lehman, Walter E. ... ... 2/27/42
Matthews, Albert A. Jr. . . 2/23/48

Gullion, Kenneth A . . .. 10/28/47
Wells, John H . ......... 2/26/47

Cowherd, William S. . ... 1129/47
Day, Lambert E.... . .. 10/29/47

306
306
307
307

321

322

363

366

Cannon, John C. . . ..... 9/11/47
Clary,AaronD..... . .. 11113/47

339

Boyd, Andrew J... . ... 10/19/48

366

339

Bowman, Robert G . . ... . 5/19/47
Cunningham, Robert A . . 10/24/46

366

322

Murray, Delbert F .. .... . 1128/47
Peterson, Loy I L. . . . ... I 0/20/43

366

Dailey, Joseph Anderson . I 0/8/4 7

322

Roark, Charles L. . . . . . . . 6/11148

339

366

Fisher, Clarence E. . . . . . 9/28/43
Gray, William E.. ... .. . 6/23/48

322

Tennis, Homer C. Jr.. . .. 6123/47
Townsend, James P . . ... 5121148

339

Hemmer, Harold W. . . . . 9/28/43
Hemmer, Gilbert F. . .... 9/26/44

Doyle, Edwin S. . . . ..... 5/27/47
Easley, Glenn E. ... .. . 11/15/46

Hands, Douglas R. ... ... 3/31/48
Jackson, Earl A.... . .. . .. 919144

322

Weaver, Carll L. . ..... . 6/10/48
Yocum, Charles ....... 12111/46

339

Jeffries, Carl E. . . . . . . . . 3/23/48
Kuglin, Joseph Thomas .. 9/30/44

323

Kurth, John P. Jr.... .. . 10/21/47
Linton, Hiram W. . . . . . 11/26/46

325

Lipking, Frederick C. . .. 6/23/48
Lord, James R. . . .. .. . . . 1120/48

325
327

307

Merrifield, Wright .. . ... 4/15/46
Nethercutt, Jack B. . .... . 6/9/43

327

Brackney, Roger S..... 10/28/47
Cabe, James E ... ... .. .. 6/17/47

307

Oliver, Montague Y. . .. . . 615141

327

Calvo, Paul F. . .. .. ... . 3/18/43
Arrasmith, Glen H. . .... 1/23/48
Donovan, Armond S.... . 6/26/47

307
307
307
307
307
307
307
307
307
307
307
307
307
307

307
307

Springer, Robert A . .. ... 1119/43
Westerburg, Max M . .... 9/30/44

322

322
322
325
325
325

327
327
327

313

Bigham, Leonard C. . . .. . 9/6/47
Minyard, Willie L. . . .. . . 6/15/48

313

Evans, Henry C. Jr. . . ... 5/25/48

327

314

327

314

Huston, William F. . . .. . . 2/8/45
Joseph, George A. . . . . . . 12/6/46

314

Kelley, Leon P. Jr. ...... 2117/48

327

310

327

327

Walters, Joseph P . ... .. .. 6/5/48
Barnett, Herbert . . . . . . . . . 51714 7
Carter, Theodore C.. .. . . 5/17/48
Johnson, Melvin H. . . . . . . 4/6/48
Allen, Lowell K. . . . . . . I 0/23/44
Pullen, Edward D . . ..... . 9/4/47

339

339

366

Comstock, Harold E. .... 5/24/47
Baird, Raymond Roscoe . 3/25/48

Peoples, William M. . .. .. 2/3/42
Sage, Stanle;, R. .. . .. ... 1130/45

366

Friesen, Harry J. .. .... . 7112/48

366

339

Shelters, Vernon . ... .. . 1211/47

366

Herwg, Manuel ........ 7/31/47
Leas, Hambleton F.. .... 3/25/48

339

Tyner, James A..... .... 5/28/46
Wrigley, Richard J . . .. . 11126/46

366

339

366

Lockwood, Bradley F. Jr. 12/6/46
Munier, Ernest A. . .. .. 10/23/47
Neilan, Robert 0 ......... 4/1/48

341

Gibbons, Bruce R. . . . . . I 0/21 /46

366

341

366

341

Neville, Robert W ... . ... 9/30/44
Coultas, John H. . . . . . . . 3/30/48

343

Wieser, Robert G. . . ... 10/23/47

366

344

Becker, Arthur S. ..... . . 9/10/47
Baker, James M..... . .. 12/2/47

366

Peaslee, Donald E... . .. 10/11/47

366

347

Baxter, Emerick H. . . .. 11120/47

366

Sawtell, William E. . .. .. 4/22/48
Solem, John M . .. .. ... .. 8/5/48

347

Clutts, Otis P. . .. .. .... 5/10/47
Coughran, Woodrow W. 11/24/45

366

Stone, Harvey W . ... ... 3/25/48

366

Wacaser, Lloyd A. . . . . . . 8/26/48
Webb, Ferna L. ...... .. 6/17/41

347

347

366

North, William T..... . 10/23/47
Ostrander, Lurl S. . . . ... 9125141
Patterson, Clarence R. . . 12/26/46

Hadnot, Felton G. . .... . 9/28/48
Hermann, Howard G . .... 8/22/47

347

Ellis, Lowell E. . ... .... 4119/48

368

347

368

Dupuis, Howard J . . .... 12/11147

Mac Phee, Robert D. . .. 11/12147
Nehlig, Frank M . .. .... 12/19/47

347

Giovanini, Joseph A . . .. . 3/27/47
Good, HaroldJ.. . ...... 3/17/47

368

Lehman, Elmer W.. . ... . 1116/48
Lombardi, Louis S . .. .. 10/31147

O'Neil, Donald C . ... ... 6121/47
Prowell, Robert E... .... 2121147

347

Henderson, Henry H. .... 4/18/47

368

347

Kendrick, Orville R. . ... 8/28/47
Stevenson, Robert L .. ... I 0/2/47

368

Miller, Robert J. . ... ... 2/19/48

368

Scher, Howard W.. . ... . 3/29/48

347

222
Ldg. No.
368
368
369
369
369
369
369
369
369
369
369
369
370
370
370
370
370
370
370
370
370
370
370
370
372
372
372
372
372
372
376
376
378
380
380
380
380
380
380
380
380
380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Recipient's N•me
Raised Date
Breithaupt, Martin E. . . . . 5/21146
Wirt, Bernard L. . ...... 9/20/47
Holman, WilliamC ..... 7/31147
Hull, Dean M.......... 9/29/47
Lavering, Glenn E...... 8/14/47
Hay, John A........... 9/25/47
Lewis, George B........ 4/22/44
Mattison, Charles F. . ... 12/6/47
Mc Keever, Thomas A... 12/6/47
Mc llvain, Earl E. ... . .. 7/29/47
Pierce, Harry G.... .... 11/25/47
Thomason, Robert S..... 6/29/48
Baxter, Ralph H........ 9/29/47
Dooley, Thomas ....... 8/28/47
Elmore, Frank C........ 6/24/47
Erickson, Harry R. ..... 11125/47
Estes, Boyd A......... 11/14/47
Fritz.en, Claus A. ....... 7122/4 7
Ahem, Charles D. .. . . . I 0/3114 7
Hays, Morgan W. . .... 12/12/47
Nelson, Nels E. .. .... .. 8128/47
Oswood, William H.. ... 9/30/47
Pradivico, Mitchell ..... 9/23/47
Weiden, Robert J....... 9/13/47
Townsend, Charles A. .. 11/25/47
Battin, Howard R. ..... 12117/47
Bell, George H. . ...... 10128/47
Larson, Harold J........ 7/29/47
Stephenson, Rulon T. . .. 9/23/47
Anderson, Robert N..... 3/22/47
Mc Clung, Emmons . . . . . I 0/8/48
Cook, Charles H... . .... 5/28/48
Weis, Walter C. Jr. . .... 1116/48
Hancock, Frederick S.J. II 4/25/47
Kettler, William E. . .... 9/24/47
Mc Colister, John C. . ... 4121148
Preston, Herbert G....... 4/9/47

Ldg. No.
381
381
388
388
388
388
389
389
389
389
389
389
389
389
389
389
389
389

390
390
395
399
399
399
399
399
404
404
404
407
407
408
408
408
408
408
411
411
411

Scott, Claude E.......... 519141
Scott, Kenneth W........ 5/9/47
Silk, William L......... 3/31/45
Stonebraker, Howard G. 11/29/46

411
411

Weiss, Ernest .......... 4/23/47

411

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Recipient's N•me
Raised Date
Epperson, Charles G.... 12122/47
Carpenter, Billie D..... 12111147
Dunwell, Frank B...... 11111147
Hunt, George T. Jr. . .... 9/30/47
Mikelson, Carrol H... .. 10/17/47
Sommer, John ......... 3/18/48
Wilkins, William D..... 1121147
Berbower, Raymond F.. . 3/23/48
Brumblay, Charles W . . . . 4/13/48
Campen, Palmer G .... . . 9/23/47
Christensen. Howard L. . . 3/22/48
Fesmire, Elsworth S.... . . 3/9/48
Good, Frederick H. . .... 4/22/48
James, Robert R. . . . . . . . 8/18/4 7
Macy, Joseph D........ 9/25/47

Ldg. No.
411
411
417
417

417
417
417
421
421
421
421
421

Maiden, Dick L.... . .. 11124/47
O'Toole, Robert M...... 7/28/47
Bannister, John W. . .. ... 712/45
Tagg, Alfred R. .... . .. 12122/47
Duff, John S. .. .. .. .. .. . 1/5/48
Hartvickson, Norman W. 12/11147
Lester, Frederick R...... 6/25/47
Buttke, George W....... 3/17/48
Lester, Leland E. ...... 12117/47
Mains, Richard F... ... . 3/17/48
Taylor, Rex .... .. . ... 10/29/47
Goodrich, Wesley S . . ... 7/27/46
Tyler, Dean W. . ....... 6/27/46
Carey, William M. ...... 6/20/47
Parker, Russell H.. ... . . 9!29141
Perry, Jesse C.......... 4113/48
Cometh, Thurman A . .... 2/18147
Cudworth, Robert G. ... 11/18/43
Kolts, James G. . . . . . . . 12127/46
Mustain, Milford H..... . 6/11146
Behny, Hugh E. .. ....... 6/8/46
Gallaugher, Harvey W. . . 10/6/48
Hannah, Lee H. ........ 5/13/48
Menaugh, Edwin ....... 3/13/48

421
421
421
426
437
442
442
444
444
446
448
448
448
448
448
448
450
450
450
451
451
451
451
457
457
462
467

Parham, Hal C. . . . . . . . . 5125148
Ripley, Frank M........ 5/27/38
Watson, Mahlon C. ..... 4/15/48

467
469
469

Ldg. No.
469
469
476
476

223

Bergquist, Walter E. . ... 1/28/47

520
528

Recipient's N•me
Raised Date
Triay, Allen C.......... 9125141
Allen, John T.......... 1219/47
Carlton, Newell E....... 4!22/48
Laflin, Benjamine T. Jr... 5!27 /48
Newman, John C...... 10/30/47
Powers, Norman S...... 1/27/48
Rummonds, Raymond R. 7110/47
Tomkins, George R. Jr.... 518141
Haley, Melvin E........ 6!28/48
Ingram, Sterling P. Jr.... 4114/47
Johnson, Howard E...... 6/30/47
Mackenzie, William H. . . 3!29/48
Wright, Marvin ....... 12129/47
Hockenberry, William .... 111147
Mc Clurg, Robert E. . ... 6!21147
Balfour, Monte L...... 10!21147
Blair, Ray R. .......... 11/1/47
Green, Tommy ......... 9!23/47
Petersen, Johnnie F...... 1!28/48
Poloynis, George C...... 4/15/48
Bimat, Robert E. . •.... . 2125/48
Willis, Walter K. ...... . 6126/48
Winget, Layton T........ ln/48
Rogers, William A. ..... 7!26/48
Merritt, James R. ....... 3112/48
Olson, Marvin 0 ........ 4!23/48
Parshall, Raymond H... 12/16/46
Dean, Charles A. Jr...... 6/20/47
Rogers, Richard C...... 6!20/47
Simonet, Albert G .. .... 10!24/47
Changnon, Harry M. . ... 9!24/47
Haltom, Earl H. . ....... 3/22/45
Vai, John . ... . .. . . ... . 9125141
Carter, Walter A...... .. 8/28/47
Dodd, Harry w......... 4/30/47
Haas, Robert D......... 4!29/47
Wilson, Edward S....... 6/30/47
Leanse, Arnold S. . ..... 3/24/47
Driggers, Henry C. . .... 6/22/48

Schultz, August Jr...... 5/18/48
Francis, Wilbur E...... 10/28/48
Frisbee, Donald E. ... ... 5!29141

529
529
529

Bright, Thomas C....... 7119/47
Baylin, Morris .... .. ... 4/16/45
Dodd, Dean D........... 4/4/46

Rec:ipietlt's N•me
Raised Date
Williams, Raymond I. ... 3!22/48
Wiscaver, Dimp E. . ... .. 217/48
Doolittle, Leslie A. . ..... 5/6/48
Kennedy, Wayne F....... 612/41
Mc Adams, Orval L. . . . . 3/16/44
Neilan, Lester C........ 12/5/46
Bushey, Warren E. .. . .... 112/47
Comley, Kenneth V.... . 12/5/46
Mc Donald, Steve Jr . ... 2/16/48
Calkins, William K.. .... 9!22/47
Miller, Julius H. Jr. . .. .. 2/16/48
Seeley, Frank C. . ..... . 1!28/48
Sherrill, Robert A. . . . . . . 8/14/46
Ward, Carleton C....... 9!22/47
Woodington, Donald D. 11118/41
Kerns, Jack I..... ..... 10!27/47
Weaver, Arthur Allen ... 7!21148
Quinn, James Jr. . ....... 3/8/48
Brown, Reginald 0 . . .... 6!28/47
Wills, Wallace W... .. .. 2/17/47
Whittaker, Horace E..... 5/13/48
Lehmann, Carl C. . ... . 10/19/38
Russell, Cbiirles A. . ..... 6/3/48
Wilbourne, Robert L. . . . . 3/3 I /48
Wood, George C. Jr.... 11114/47
Wright, Martin B. . ... ... 6/1148
Lagiss, Nick G... . ..... 3/16/48
York, Harold P.... ..... 4/20/48
Mulvaney, Johnnie W.... 6/22/48
Zinn, George S.......... 9/9/47
Elliott, Dexter H. . . . . . . . 5/17/48
Hurst, Melvin C... .. . .. 7/14/47
Harralson, James S. . .... . 9/8/4 7
Kelley, Everett H. . . . ... 9!23/4 7
Lasher, Walter L..... ... 7!21147
White, Clyde L. ....... 11118/47
Marlow, David I. . .... . 10!20/47
Likerman, Herman M. . .. 5/15/48

476
476
476
476
479
479
479
479
479
480
480
480
486
486
486
486
486
486
486
493
493
499
499
499
499
499
51 I
511
51 I
51 I
518
518
518

224
Ldg. No.
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
532
532
532
532
542
542
542
542
542
542
542
542
544
551
551
551
552
556
561
561
561
561
561
561

567
574
574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Drasin, Harry C. .•.... 11/20/46
Fink, Mitchell D.. . . . ... 7/19/46
French, Adrian J... ..... 5115141
Grant, Irvin . . . . . . . . . . I0/23/4 7
Hanson, Carl M. . . . . . . 12/29/43
Lane, Elliot J. .. .. ..... 5/26/48
Miller, William R........ 8/1/44
Pollack, Morris J. . ... . 11/12/47
Potter, Frederick C. ..... 3/30/43
Rudolph, Martin M.. .... 6126145
Smith, Vernon B...... .. 5/27/47
Stawisky, Sam ......... 6/28/48
Title, Sidney R. .. ... . .. 9119145
Weiss, Eugene E........ 6/14/44
Windman, Irving ..... . 10/22/47
Moore, Robert B. . . . . . . . 5/18/48
Schuler, George H. . .. . 11/18/47
Vaughn, Elroy Dee .. .. . 1/27/48
Ellerson, Arthur E. . . . . . . 5/24/47
Clarke, Thomas W. . . ... 9/18/47
Bruce, Arlie Y. .... . . . . 9/23/48
Dewey, Dudley 0 . Jr. . . . 9/24/47
Fields, Frank M. . .. ... 11/23/46
Geyer, Charles E....... . 1/29/48
Lorenz, Walter H. ... . .. 12/4/41
Mc Kim, Russell C. ..... 3/27/48
Ross, Carl E. . . . . . . . . . . I /27 /48
Roberts, James L. .... .. 4/14/47
Simmons, Leland S. . . . . . 8/23/46
Steward, Morris E. . . . . .. 6/28/47
Reisfelt, Leonard . . . . . . . 3/31 /48
Crivelli, Laurence . . . . . 12/ 18/45
Graham, William R... .. 4/15/48
Cowen, John B.. . ...... 4/19/47
Hustead, Francis G. . .... 6/11 /46
Nagle, Carl H..... . . . . . 7/25/47
Roberts, Theodore H. .. 12/16/47
Rogers, Richard C...... 9/11/47
Wrede, John H. ... . .... 5/29/47
Clarke, Leroy . . . . . . . . . . 9/28/48
Bartlett, George E. . . . . . . 12/1/46
Cowan, Roby E....... . 10121/47

Ldg. No.
574
574
574
574
576
576
576
576
576
579
579
579
579
579
579
579
580
588
588
· 588
588
588
591
592

595
595
604
604
604
604
604
604
604
604
604
611
613
613
613
613
614
615

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Hale, Norman E... . ... 10/30/47
Larson, Virgil L. .. .. . . 11/17/47
Medeiros, Joe L. . . . . . . 11122/47
Webber, Frank L. .. .... 12/18/47
Kingsland, Courtney B. ... 6nl48
Nicewarner, Raymond A. 5/26/47
Nicholas, Robert W . .... 4/15/48
Rosenkoetter, Russell E. . 3/22/47
Hardin, Howard R. ... . . 5/27/48
Cave, Howard J .... . . . . . 5/8/48
Gnirk, Chester E.. .. . ... 6/12/48
Beam, Melvin G. .. .. . . 10/27/47
Gordon, Paul L. ... . .... 6/12/48
Legg, Paul A. .. .. .... . 11/14/47
MiddendorfT, George ... .. 6n148
Pascoe, Thomley Alvin .. 11/3/47
Rinehart, Morris L. . ... . 4/19/4 7
Cheyovich, Milan . . . . . . 3/25/48
Spadier, Dan M. . . . . . . . . 3/23/48
Threewitt, Noble W. .. . 10/28/47
Bright, Hudson H. ...... 6/14/48
Whitney, Herbert E.. . . . 11/25/47
Cooper, Kenneth S. . . . . 11 /18/46
Downs, Roy E... . ...... 1/17/48
Mauer, Bernard W. . . . . 10/28/46
Hartleben, Nelson W. . . . 5/20/47
Ballinger, James E. . .... 2/19/43
Davis, Joseph E. . . ..... 4/18/47
Gordon, Ralph W.. ... . . 2126/48
Hadley, Woodrow W.... 3/25/48
Hargraves, Donald H. . . . 6/19/48
Morrill, Edward L.... .. . 6/10/47
Seal, Gilbert .. . ....... 11/29/47
Smith, Lester A. ....... . 3/21/45
Smith, Harold L........ 4/19/47
Bernath, Louis ...... ... 2/18/47
Castle, Glenn H. .. . .. .. 5/27/48
Bartucco, Eugene . . . . . . . 7/30/48
Lenoir, Philip L. Jr...... 3/23/48
Shane, Anthony R. . . . . . . . 516148
Weaver, Harold E....... 2/23/48
Borders, Warren B.. .. . . 5121141

Ldg. No.
615
615
615
615
615
617
620
620
620

625
625
625
625
625
625
625
626
626
626
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
632
633
635
635
635
635
635
635
635
635

Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Comish, Handley M...... 512141
Crenshaw, John Edward . 9/26/47
German, Leon V...... .. 2122/47
Barnes, Levi J. ... . . ... 11/25/47
Guy, Wayne B.. . .. . . .. 6/10/47
Baker, Del C. . . ... ..... 2/18/48
Slaughter, Robert L. . ... 1/27/48
Trudersheim, Max L... . . 1/27/48
Sewell, Charles R. . . . . . . 3/26/46
Floyd, Irving H. . . . . . . . . 3/29/47
Mansfield, Merritt A..... 9/23/47
Mattice, Harold L. . .... . 7/29/47
Schilling, Joseph H. ..... 7/22/47
Strickland, Ernest B. . .... 4n/45
Surabyan, Vaughn A.... 9/16/46
Wates, Wallace L. .. . ... 7/25/47
Mc Coy, Charles H... ... 5125148
Price, Delbert F. . ....... 3/24/48
Hall, Edward L. . . . . . . . . I 019145
Brown, Robert E. .. . .. ... 7/2/47
Burdick, Paul A..... ... 1/19/48
Elliott, Robert B. . . ... . . 6/17/48
Baldwin, Victor D. ..... 7/28/47
Jones, Joh; S. . . . . . . . . . 3/22/48
Lawrence, Carlis W . ... 11/24/47
Mason, Austin M. . . . . . .. 6/9/48
Reyburn, Lewis F. . . .... 11/5/47
Scott, Adis B. . . . .... .. 3/30/48
Smith, Donald A... . ... . 2/26/47
Struiksma, John D. . ... 11/24/47
Van Norman, Laurence B. 5/26/48
Wagoner, Kenneth E. . . . 5/26/48
Williams, Fred B. Jr..... 8/23/48
Lauber, Carl J. . . . . . . . . . 5/29/47
Kelvington, Harold V... 11/13/47
Ketchens, James H. Jr . .. 10/24/47
Mahan, Cecil A. . .. . .... 11/9/44
Pevoteaux, Norman E... 11/27/46
Rhudy, Vance B. . . .... . 6/J0/48
Vreeland, Robert W. . . . . 5/26/48
Jennings, Fred C. . . .. . . .. 7/8/48
Wich, Henry ... .... . ... 4/8/48

Ldg. No.
657
657
657
657
657
657
657
657
657
657
657
657
657
659
659
666
666
666
668
670
670
671
671
672
672
672
672
672
672
672
672
674
674
674
674
674
674
674
674
674
674
675

225

Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Barrett, Froman . . . . . . . 11124/47
Caraccio, Albert R. ..... 5/26/47
Cole, Ned S.. ... . . . .. .. 4129/46
Eckert, Orrin D......... 8/15/47
Funk, Lawrence D. . ... . 3/11/47
Hacker, Jackson B. . .... 9/15/47
Alston, Raymond W . .. .. 3/29/48
Martikas, James P. Jr . ... 4/14/47
Mc Ahren, Laurence E. . . 6/22/48
Morris, Wilbur T. . . . . . . I 0/4/4 7
Nelius, Carl ...... ... . . 1/26/48
Stewart, Leroy B.. . ...... 2/1/46
Yeager,DonaldC .. . . ... 7/19/46
Peabody, Richard E. .... 8/27/47
Heinrich, Paul W...... J 1/15/47
Morrison, Francis W... . . 5/22/47
Zimmerman, Wade N. Jr. 6/17/47
Lauesen, Warren E. ... . J 1/26/46
Stark, Sydney H. . . . . . . . 12/6/43
Hoffman, Howard H. . . .. 6/27/45
Humiston, Homer W. . .. 1/28/48
Smith, Kenneth B..... .. 5/14/48
Bostic, William M.. ... 12/18/47
Fortune, John R. . . .... . 2/13/48
Alterman, Edward .. .... 6125148
Klein, Arthur M. .. .. .. . 1/29/47
Murphy, James R. ...... 6/22/48
Murray, Norman P. . ... 11/10/43
Newkirk, Alpheus W. Jr.. 3/31/47
Scott, Norman E. . . . . . . 11/29/48
Smith, Richard E. . . . . . . . 9/3/46
Brandis, Murray .. . ..... 9/29/47
Garfield, David A. . . . . . I 0/21 /46
Hoffman, Jack .. . .... .. 5/12/47
Klein, Jerome E....... 10/11/46
Pash, Edgar A........ . 10/27/47
Baskin, Bernard W . .... . 2124/47
Prieur, CletuS E. . . . . . . . . . 3/3/47
Rosenberg, William G. . 10/28/46
Siegel, Bernard .... . .... 2/5/47
Wachs, Leonard ... .. .. . 9/22/47
Alcorn, Wayne B.. . : .... 1/4/47

226
Ldg. No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

676

Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Wengert, William F... ... 5nt47

676
680
682

Ldg.No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

753

Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Karl, Wilfred W ........ 7/29/47

Laederich, Nonnan E. . . . 6/23/48

753

Weinert, Hans E........ 5/27/47

Ldg. No.

Scheffer, Eugene R. . . . . . 3/26/48

760

Lorenz, Carl ........ ... 6/29/48

1

Beck, Clyde M........ . 6/27/47
Daniels, Jack R......... 7/13/46

769

Dillingham, Leon L .... 10/29/48
Hagerty, Elliot B ........ 11/8/46

Meyer, Leonard C .. ..... 5/14/48
Compton, Aubrey W. . .. 6/30/47
Hoppes, Charles A. . . . . . . 515148

9

775
775

57

776

Rose, Woodrow W. . . . . 10/24/47

136

Keyte, Lawrence E. . . . . 10/25/46
Vickrey, Lowell M . ... .. 3/16/48

780

Overfield, James T. . .... 6/22/48
Forrester, Linton E ...... 5/13/43

144

788

Knapp, Sterling R. ..... . 6/30/4 7
Bliss, Elmo D . ......... 2119/46

789

687

Bell, William J .. ....... 3/29/47
Patterson, William W .. .. 1215/47

789

687

Roberts, EdgarW.. .... . 9/16/47

687
687

682
682
682
682
682
683
686
686

690
693
693
693

789

Claytor, George V. ... 4/21/1923

322

799

Wood, William M... ... 11/29/47

499

Sievert, Guilio E.. .. .. 7/24/1922
Deise, Thomas A. .... . 5/4/1923

Joyner, Otis B. . . . . . . . . . . I /6/48

804

Sercovich, Albert R ... 7/25/1923

804

Philamalee, Arthur E. . . . . I /3/48
Mc Roy, Irvin E.... . ... 3/10/48

551

Taylor, William D. . ... .. 7nt41
Maltby, Jack A. ... .. ... 2/24/48

676

Eldridge, Arthur J ..... 9/12/1921

813

Griswold, Gale .......... 6/8/39

Chicklis, Larry C. . ..... 1/13/48
Craig, George R. . . . . . . . 2/25/42

820
820

Bettencourt, Victor S. . .. 3/19/46
Fowler, Arthur F........ 8/30/44

Stein, Sidney G ......... 3/31/47

830

693

842

721

Stiff, Julian P. . . . . . . . . I 0/29/46
Smith, Dale J. . ........ 7128/48
Mc Kelvey, David R.... . 3/11/48

842

721

Kohler, Edward A . ...... 2/28/47

844

726
726

Dickey, Martin L. ...... 4/22/48
Day, Earl L........... . . 515148

726

Dietze, Herbert F. . ...... 4/6/46

726

Lane, Virgil L. ........ 10125/46
Seymour, OliverW .. . . .. 6/21/48

728
735
735

Haynes, Moody P.. ... .. 6/29/48
Floethe, John A. .. ... .. 6/29/46
Edwards, Noel C. Jr... . 10/27/47

736

Thompson, Will L. .... 10/24/47
Hargrave, Marion A. . . . . 9/28/48

736

Hodges, Hershel H. . . . . . 2/24/48

736

Durham, John S........ 1/26/48
Brown, Glenn E. . ..... 11/23/43

753
753
753

Rodgers, Daniel D. . .. 6/30/1923
Fix, Ernest E......... 11/1/1922

314

693

735

Haskell, Robert K. .... 6/18/1923
Lovotti, Carl D. . . . . . 11/18/1922

Elliott, Charles R. . ..... 6/10/38
Sartain, Fred L... ... ... 10/3/47

789

693

726

149

Rush, Orlof E. . . . . . . . 5/30/1923
King, Omer L. . . . . . . . 6/25/1923

VanValkenburgh, N.P. . 4/3/1923
Taylor, Harold F ... ... 3/19/1923

830

711

16

Recipient's Name
Raised Date
Heitmann, Irving F. . . . . 5/5/1923

300

Chapnick, Allan A. . . . . . 3/29/43
Cutrona, Ralph ........ 7/17/47
Gaynor, Morris N ....... 7/26/48

693

Denham, Robert N ...... 11/5/47
Davis, Robert B. . ...... 11/3/47

75-Year Pins Presented

Bilberry, Kelly .. ..... .. 4/24/47
Cook, Johnnie L........ 9/25/47

826
830
830

Harker, Edward .. ... ... 5/31/48
Hoigaard, Harry C. . . ... 4/24/48
Holmes, Howard W . . ... 9/22/47
Hiatt, Eugene W .. .. .. .. 1/10/48
Mathews, James D.. .... 5/31/47
Lundquist, Raymond B. . 12/18/47
Bland, Herbert K. . . . . . . 1/26/35
Keith, Claude P......... 7/22/46

202

227

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

t

APPENDIXF

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

,

231

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURE R
Most Worshipful, Brethren:

..

At the outset, the Ritual Committee takes this opportunity to say thank
you for the privilege of serving this past year.
The annual Inspector's Reports have disclosed much information
regarding the condition of our Lodges.

1

Since our last Communication, the attrition rate has shrunk our
membership roster by another 5,000 to below the l 00,000 mark plus the loss of 14
Lodges.
Lack of officers continues to plague our Lodges and rely more and more
on Past Masters and the spontaneous request of sideliners for assistance. Of
course, their help is appreciated, realizing that this is only an ephemeral solution.
The attendnace at our seventeen seminars throughout the jurisdiction is
most gratifying and we thank you.

ln closing, we say thanks to our Grand Lodge Officers who have acquitted
themselves so well at our ceremonies throughout the year.
To our Grand Secretary and his entire staff, much thanks for all your
assistance whenever we needed it.
To our Inspectoral corps, all l 08 of you, for all the time and service you
give to our Fraternity - thank you, thank you, thank you.
To all our coaches for all your efforts, a grateful fraternity says thank you.
To my colleagues on the Ritual Committee, my sincerest thank you for all
your help.
And to you, my Brethren, for making it all possible - thank you.
Respectfully submitted,
Ulysses G. Patropulos, Grand Lecturer

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPENDIXG

l

t

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

235

GRAND CHAPLA IN'S MESSAG E

Devotiona l Service
Sunday, October 11, 1998
V. Kent Annstrong, Grand Chaplain
Invocation
Great Architect of the Universe, we ask that you look with favor
on this gathering of our Masonic Family and our endeavors here in San
Francisco this week. Grant to our members peace and hannony as they
make the legislation that will lead us into the next century. Give them
Wisdom to make decisions that are good for our Fraternity, Strength to
keep their convictions and values and the Beauty that comes from
knowing that they have helped make Masonry stronger and better in
California and have done their best to make this indelible impression clear
and beautiful. Watch over our Grand Master and his corps of officers and
grant to them that watchful care that you give to those who follow your
path. We ask that you watch over our Masonic Family, especially the
youth that are the cornerstone of the future and in whom we must trust to
carry on our traditions and values. All this we ask that we may honor
your Holy Name. Amen.
I wish to welcome all of your. Thank you for helping us begin our Grand
Lodge week as all great and important undertaking should begin, by including in
our schedules time to make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Our Grand Master has
for his theme this year, "Freemasons United an Indelible Impression," and in our
time together here today we would like to share with you some indelible
impressions that scriptures have made on our lives.
As a young child in Oakdale, I was exposed to many different Christian
churches. When I was about seven, my Grandmother Annstrong, who was
babysitting me, enrolled me in Vacation Bible School at the local Naz.arene
Church, and it was there that I received one of the most indelible impressions of
my religious life. During that week were required to learn a "Bible" verse and to
tell why we had chosen that verse. The verse that I choose was the JOQlh Psalm.

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands
Serve the Lord with gladness; come before his presence with
singing
Know ye that the Lord he is God; it is he that hath made us, and
not we ourselves; we are his people; and the sheep of his
pasture.
Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with
praise; be thankful unto him, and bless his name.
For the Lord is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth
endureth to all generations.
This verse seemed to my young mind to be the way I wanted to worship
my Creator, with joyful praise and singing, not with fire and brimstone ~nd
damnation. When you are uyoung those are not the things that lead you to enjoy
worship. Having fun, singing and laughing was how I wanted to worship my
Creator; it was how I wanted to live my life. I loved singing the songs that we
learned in Sunday school and in Vacation Bible School. Even though I couldn't
carry a tune I belted out with all the volume of my voice my praise to the Lord. I
wanted the world to know that I loved my Creator and I enjoyed making a joyful
noise unto him.
What a wonderful way to approach our Creator. Singing and making a
joyful noise, laughing and enjoying His presence and the wonde~l w~rld he m~e
for us. Imagine if we lived our lives with this verse as our gmdmg hght. Gomg
through life making a joyful noise, not grumbling; singing, not muttering under our
breath about how rotten we are being treated; praising the Lord and our fellowmen,
not trying to chop them down or spread vicious rumors about them; d~c~g and
singing, not stomping angrily about telling the whole world how rotten 1t 1s. We
would spend our lives making a joyful noise and the world be so much more
pleasant.
In this world we should be happy to serve the Lord with gladness and to
come into presence singing. How wonderful it is to serve the Lord and come into
his presence singing and rejoicing. Truly this is the way to approach the Lord.
Goodness and Thanksgiving are surely the results of following this verse
and of making it your personal philosophy.
Poets and philosophers have written about a world that is filled with joyful
noise, one that sings the praise of our Creator, songs of Thanksgiving, not songs
of war and hate. This world does not yet exist; sadly the latter world seems to be
the one that is prevalent. I hope that each of us can use our lives to make a joyful

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

237

noise, singing and praising, loving and laughing, not hating and shouting in anger.
Knowing the Lord as our Creator and the shepherd of our flock. Imagine how
much nicer this world of ours would be.
Another verse of Scripture that has truly made an indelible impression on
me comes from my time in De Mo lay. At the opening of each meeting the candles
are lighted and the Master Councilor gives a short bit of ritual about each candle.
As the seventh candle is lit, the ritual quotes Matthew 5-15: "Let your light so
shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which
is in Heaven."
This verse is one that each of us should make our personal philosophy.
Each day we should let our light so shine so that we truly do glorify our Father
who is in heaven. How do you let your light shine? You can follow the principles
laid down by our Masonic Virtues, doing things that are kind and helpful without
making glaring bids for publicity.
Masons do lots of these acts and they do not "Let their light shine." Our
Fraternity spends lots of money and time to help children who have disabilities
lead normal and productive lives. Our Shrine Hospitals, Scottish Rite Clinics and
Knights Templar Eye clinics are only a a few that come to mind. Our scholarships
help children gain higher education; our Lodges spend time working in the schools
helping the children learn to read and supporting the public schools programs in
cities throughout this state. All of these acts are ways of letting our Light shine,
but we seldom let Cilthers see those good works. Every part of our Ma sonic Family
does things that can only be considered shining lights, yet we seldom publicize
those good works; in fact we seem to try extra hard to hide those things. Our
modesty has been one of our biggest detractions and this is the time that we should
begin to truly make the Light shine and to call attention to it.
Now is the time to make a joyful noise. In your programs there is a song
printed that I will ask all of you to join with me in singing the praise of the Lord.
Brother Grand Organist, if you will, please start.

FAITH OF OUR FATHERS
Faith of our fathers! Living still
In spite of dungeons, fire and sword;
0 how our hearts beat high with joy;
Whene'er we hear that glorious word.
Faith of our fathers, holy faith!
We will true to Three till death.
Faith of our fathers! We will love
Both friend and foe in all of our strife:

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

And preach Thee too, as loves know how,
By kindly deeds and virtuous life.
Faith of our fathers, holy faith!
We will be true to thee till death.
91''PSALM
Dwelling in the shelter of the Most High,
Abiding under the protection of the Almighty,
I say of the Lord:
'He is my refuge and my fortress,
My God, in whom I trust.'
He will deliver you from the snare of the fowler,
And from the destructive pestilence.
He will cover you with His pinions,
And under His wings shall you take refuge;
His truth is a shield and armor.
You shall not be afraid of the terror by night,
Nor of the arrow that flies by day;
Of the pestilence that stalks in darkness,
Nor of the destruction that ravages at noonday.
A thousand may fall at your side,
And ten thousand at your right hand;
But it shall not come near you.
You shall behold only with your eyes,
And see the recompense of the wicked.
Because you have made the Lord your fortress,
And the Most High your refuge,
No evil shall befall you,
Neither shall any plague come near your tent.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

For He will give His angels charge over you,
To guard you in all your ways.
They shall bear you upon their hands,
Lest you strike your foot upon a stone.
You shall tread upon the lion and asp,
You shall trample on the young lion and serpent.
'Because he has set his love upon Me, I will deliver him;
I will protect him because he has known My name.
He shall call upon Me , and I will answer him:
I will be with him in trouble;
I will rescue him and and bring him to honor.
And I will give him abundance of long life,
And he shall witness My salvation.'

FAITH OF OUR FATHERS
(from Holy Scripture)
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by
the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made
of things which do appear.
But without faith it is impossible to please him; for he that
cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a
rewarder of them that diligently seek him.

239

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Benediction

GRAND CHAPLAIN'S MESSAGE

Our Great Creator who is truly our refuge and our fortress, we ask that
you continue to watch over us as we go from this place. Help us to let our Light
shine and to make a joyful noise unto you. We ask also that the Faith of our
Fathers become even stronger through our love of you and in our trying to obey
your laws and your ways. Finally, Great Architect, let your blessing pour down on
our Masonic Family. Keep them in Thy sight and under the protection of your
wing and let them prosper. This we ask that we may honor your Holy Name.
Amen

241

These Are The Times That Try Men's Souls
One of the great patriots of our Revolutionary War, Thomas Paine, began
his pamphlet Common Sense with these words: "These are the times that try men's
souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from
the service of their country; but he that stands it now, deserves the love and thanks
of man and woman." This was written December 1776, at a time when our country
was deeply involved in a war that would eventually give our country it's birth. It
was a tumultuous time, one full of anger, resentment, injustice and revolution. It
was a time when moral outrage at the inequities and injustices imposed upon the
American Colonies by the British King were so strong that only acts of violence
and aggression would relieve the situation. Common sense and reason could not
justify those acts of the British government and so the people of the Colonies were
engaged in a war to bring relief to the people of that future United States from
those injustices.
Masons were very instrumental and influential in those times. Men like
George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Paul Revere and many other Masons led
the way and guided this country through those times and into greatness. We can
find many examples of Masons leading the people. Masons were members of the
Continental Congress, they were the signers of the Declaration oflndependence,
and later the Constitution of the United States. Masons were generals and soldiers
in the anny. They were Governors of the States and leaders in the houses of
government. They were the merchants, the manufacturers and even the fanners
who fed the country. In every aspect of this time that tried men's souls, Masons
were deeply committed and involved with their country and their society.
I believe that the days we are now living in are also the times that try
men's souls. This is not a period of political crisis, we are not rebelling at
injustices and tyranny of government, but we are in the midst of a crisis. Our
country is currently experiencing a moral and ethical turmoil that truly tests our
moral fabric. Today, we, as Masons, must determine if we are summer soldiers
and sunshine patriots or if we are those souls who are the fabric and foundation of
our society. We must determine if we will follow our Masonic virtues and remain
as the foundation of our Society or if we will fly away as leaves from the trees
break away and scatter in the storms of the fall. We must hold fast and see our
beliefs through this winter of crisis and into the spring where our values will burst
forth like new leaves to again regain their rightful position as the true foundations
of this country's beliefs. We must not relax our position and let our values be
decimated or trampled by the masses who are currently in fashion in this country.

242

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our political and religious leaders are at the apex of this crisis. We see
our political leaders publicly admit to adultery and sexual crimes. They have been
accused and often found guilty of illegal fund raising, of teaching college classes
to improperly raise money for their political causes, and of making telephone calls
to raise money from inside government buildings. They are censured for sexual
harassment, found to have had homosexual relationships with pages, sexual
encounters with interns and admit to having affairs. This is true not only of the
. President but members of the House, the Senate and state and local offices as well.
Even members of the judiciary and candidates for the Supreme Court are guilty of
these offenses. This is not limited to one political party, but is found in both the
major parties. Drug and alcohol problems frequently are exposed and these
legislators and their wives or husbands go off to "dry out" at clinics with little or
no censure. The mayor of the Capital of the United States was an admitted and
convicted drug abuser and was re-elected.
Religious leaders also have been in the news lately. Famous leaders of
denominations have publicly admitted or been convicted of crimes and moral
offenses. They have affairs with their assistants, with prostitutes and sometimes,
even persons of the same sex. We frequently read in the news that some Priest,
Minister or Rabbi is convicted or accused of molesting children. Sometimes this
abuse is of children of the same sex, sometimes of the opposite sex. These are not
infrequent items in our newspapers, they happen much too often. These acts have
been going on for years and frequently the church and those who are in power
within that church have covered them up. We also see in the news stories of
embezzlement of church funds by the members of the clergy, secretaries or
members of the leadership of that church. These types of articles appear much too
often today in our news. Those stories underline the moral and ethical depravity
that seems to permeate our society and is rotting the structures of family values and
the morals of our society today.
We cannot go to the movies or watch television without being exposed to
violence, sex and crime. Our children's cartoon heroes are Ninjas, Power Rangers
and other figures that go about fighting, maiming and killing. Saturday morning
acts of violence are all too prevalent on television and the cartoons and shows are
children are exposed to seem to extol the virtues of violence. Computer games that
our children love glorify violence and arcades dedicate aisle after aisle to games
that teach our children that they must blow away someone or something to be a
winner. Children of every age are exposed to these games. Children of both sexes
are exposed to these games and programs. Violence permeates our entertainment
and our children are learning from an environment that extols maiming,
bloodletting and killing. Even public television presents programs that depict
animals hunting, killing and even killing members of their own species.

f

I

243

In many of our cities, gangs are becoming the surrogate families of our
youth. They teach a way of life that is full of violence, drug~ and sex. Those
children who are lured into their way of life are assured of a hfe that fre~uently
leads to jail, to prison or even an early death. Yet young people are contmually
recruited into those bastions of evil because they need and w~t the. values o.f a
family the love and care of parents, the discipline that they lack m therr home hfe,
and th; attention they crave. All too often today families consist of one parent ~d
children. Parents who are drug abusers or alcohol dependent and c~ot provide
to their children the values that form the basis of good morals. With an all too
sickening frequency we see on the news or in the papers the story of some young
people who were just hanging out and m~t their de.ath because they were there
when some gang members decided that this was therr turf and those people were
trespassing so they must destroy them. I remember the story a while back of a
young couple and their children who got lost in East Lo~ Angeles, turned down the
wrong street and were met with a hail of bullets that killed most of the members
of the family. This family were merely strangers who were lost and ~ing t~ fmd
their way back to familiar roads and were only traveling down a street m therr car.
They died simply because they turned down the wrong street. Their only offence
was not being a member of that gang.
.
"What can I do.?" I
With examples like this you surely must be saymg,
am only one person, one family. These are the time when we must hold ste~dfast
to our Masonic yirtues, those moral values that we hold to be. self-evident.
Brotherly Love, Relief, Truth, Temperance, Prudence and Justice are Important and
real values that we cherish.
If each ofus holds true and lives by these values we will be the leaders of
our society those Masons who like George Washington and Benjamin Franklin set
the exampie for their time. We can be the beacons of light that spring forth to
show those traveling on stormy waters the rocks and shoals of moral decade~ce
that are so prevalent today. We can guide our youth to a different path by workmg
with our Masonic Youth Groups and encouraging all the young people we know
to be a part of those groups. We can set the example for our churches, our
politicians and our society. We can change the way our society sets its example.

We should protest the violence and sex that permeate our entertainment.
We must present to our children family values that are good and wholesome and
follow those teachings we call Masonic Virtues. We must not allow ours~lves to
be dragged off the path into the mud and slime that is cm:ently permeatmg o~r
society. We must hold our family sacred and do whatever is necess~ to ~eep it
as a wholesome place for our children to grow up. We must spend t~e with o~r
children and give to them the guidance, the discipline and the attent10n t~at will
keep them out of gangs and away from drugs. We must each be responsible for

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

our lives and our chil dren 's welfare.
We must constantly be aware of the
dangers
of drugs and know that our children need
guidance and love to help them resist
the
temptation of drugs and gangs.
These values will keep Mas ons as the
leaders of our society. The y will
keep us as the beacon that shines the
light to our communities. They are
the true
values that we must demand are the
minimum standards for our society.
Yes, these are truly the times that try
men 's souls and we as Masons mus t
not be counted as Summer soldiers and
Sunshine Patriots. We must hold fast
and
endu re like those citizens who endu red
Valley Forg e's winter and held fast to
thei r
beliefs. We must continue to hold fam
ily values and morals to the bulwark
of our
greatness and in the end we will win
this war against the forces that are thre
aten
ing
our coun try today. Thank you.
Respectfully submitted,
V. Kent Armstrong, Jr., Gra nd Chaplai

n

AP PE ND IX H

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

247

GRAND ORATION

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Most Worshipful Past Grand Masters,
honored officers of Grand Lodge, and my distinguished Brothers of Grand Lodge
- this has to be the most exciting and most humbling moment of my Masonic life.
Most Worshipful Tony, Virginia and I owe this wonderful Masonic Year
to you - and Marilyn, and we shall always remember this period in our lives as
long as we live.
It has been thrilling from the moment you asked if I would accept the
appointment as Grand Orator, to these final hours. My only wish is that every
Mason in California could have equally shared this year with us. From the socials,
the traveling, the cornerstones, the dedications and rededications, the awarding of
50 and 75 year pins, the business meetings, and, of course your grrreat trip through
the Scandinavian countries.
But most importantly, we wish all Masons in this jurisdiction, and their
families, could see the new excitement in our fraternity, the acceptance of new
challenges by so many, and the renewed pledges from the hearts of our members
throughoutthejurisdiction. I've never felt such an exhilaration, nor ever been so
optimistic about something good, getting better.
I'm truly proud to have had the opportunity to serve you and the
Freemasons ofou&Grand Lodge during the years 1997-98. To you Grand Master,
Marilyn, and all the members of the California Grand Lodge, my everlasting
gratitude. I'm sure, with the warm and friendly leadership you have given, an
indelible impression in the footsteps of time has been left for those who follow.
I know you all are waiting to hear a "Grand Oration", which is traditional
from the Grand Orator; however, what I'm aboutto say, will not necessarily be an
oration. My duty, as the Grand Orator, is to deliver an address to you, the Grand
Lodge, on matters appertaining to the craft. I'm not really sure what I'm about to
say is even an address or even on matters appertaining to the craft. What I am
going to say today- are the feelings about Freemasonry that are in my heart; and
I pray some of you may have these same feelings.
But first, I would briefly like to share with you a story about a 93-year old
mother who believes that Freemasonry is next to Godliness. A woman, who upon
the birth of her only son, prayed to God that one day he would become a DeMolay
and subsequently one day would become a Mason. She lived in a small coal
mining town, there poverty was as common as the noon day sun.
But, one very important thing about this small village was obvious- and
that was the fact that the leaders in this town were the most respected people. They

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

were the business owners, the church goers, and in her sight, were the elite of the
community. They were all Masons to the man. She dreamed and prayed that her
son would not become just another coal miner, but that he would fit into this
special earthly heaven of her mind, that he would become one of the Masons in
town.

hours, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. These volunteers are also from the Masonic
community.

The beginning of her dream was fulfilled fifteen years after her son's
birth, when he was initiated into the Order of DeMolay; and climaxed six years
later when he was Raised a Master Mason. The dreams of her little world were
then fulfilled.
Fifty years after her son's acceptance into DeMolay, she still had the
canceled check for his initiation, showing evidence of her pride in the Fraternity,
and she even saved the Lodge's photograph of her son's first Stated Meeting as a
Master Mason, which now is nearly a half century later. As a Past Worthy Matron
of Eastern Star, she has, throughout all these years, shared each thrilling moment
of her son's activities in Masonry. Time is running out for her and she may not
have many years left, but her daily prayers includes her thanks to God for her son,
and appreciation to the Masonic Fraternity and what it has meantto her, and to her
son.
I wonder how many of you can repeat a similar story? I'm sure this
scenario is not unique, for this great and wonderful Fraternity has grown
throughout time on the foundation of love and dreams.
And why not? We give to mankind more love and charity than any other
body or organiz.ation in all of history. So, why don't we flaunt it, brag about it,
advertise it - in other words why aren't we telling the world just how good we
really are? I know that inside the breast of each Freemason is a heart filled with
a special pride, unmatched by any pride that has ever been earned or received,
throughout all time.
Each year, hundreds of millions of dollars are spent on children
numbering in the hundreds of thousands across this vast continent. We boldly face
every conceivable mental and medical problem known to man. I am well
acquainted with several Masonic children's hospitals, that together, treat over
300,000 children each year, with every conceivable childhood disorder.
Everything from pediatric orthopaedics, to cystic fibrosis, brain tumors,
critical bums, cancer, epilepsy, you name it, and we treat it. One of the hospitals
not only treats about 150,000 children each year, but has a startling statistic, that
of over 49,000 visits to their emergency ward, in just a single year. They enjoy
over 500 volunteer workers from the Masonic community. One of the other
hospitals is proud of it's 850 volunteer workers that assist the staff on assigned

249

And of course, we cannot forget the 160 Childhood Language Disorder
and Learning Centers around the country, and the ever present care for the eyes,
the contributions to the muscular dystrophy research, and many more human needs
- far too numerous to share today. And don't let us forget the medical research
for those children who will need help in the future; and the loving care given to
those in their golden years.
Forgive me, I know I'm addressing the choir, but I just can't help
reminding you of "who" we are. There is no question or doubt, that you who are
here today are the workers, the leaders and a vital and integral part of the backbone
and stability of our house - not built with hands.
You all have heard about our forefathers, and their accomplishments. Just
to name a few: Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, Washington, Franklin, Edison; and in
this century alone- Presidents Teddy Roosevelt, Taft, Franklin Roosevelt, Harry
Truman - Generals Pershing, MacArthur, Doolittle, Bradley, Marshal - Admiral
Byrd, King George of England, Winston Churchill, Lindbergh, Dr. Mayo, Sousa,
Will Rogers, Rudyard Kipling- I could go on and on all day, and not name them
all. Yes, and I am sure that I could name most everyone in this Grand Lodge as
being great for something. You get the picture, don't you?
But there is one name I haven't mentioned. It's a name quite obscure to
most of our members, but if I had to list the top twenty influential Mason's in this
century, I would certainly include this man among the most worthy. The more I
read about him, the more I am impressed with his contributions to our society and
his presence in our lives today.
He lived at a time in Masonic history when our fraternity grew from 1.3
million members to 2.57 million. The time period was 1910 to 1920. This was a
period when increased membership meant expanded administration for the various
Grand Lodges and the concordant and affiliated bodies. All the officers had
enlarged responsibilities. It meant more staff, more equipment, increased welfare
work, and the establishmentofnew educational programs, and a new emphasis on
Americanism. This was a period just right for a person like this man, or put
another way, this person was just right for this period in Masonic history. Hie
enthusiasm for Masonry was the same energetic, continuing eagerness as that of
his Masonic father.
At the age of 35, he joined the Army to fight in the Spanish-American
War. It wasn't long before he was promoted to Captain, a title he enjoyed for the
balance of his life. Ten years after leaving the Army, he was Raised a Master
Mason in Louisville Lodge No. 400, and it wasn't long after, that he became

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master of his Lodge. Shortly after his term as Master, he joined the York and
Scottish Rite Bodies, and again, it wasn't long before he became Venerable Master
of his Scottish Rite Valley. He was a special person, a knowing person, and
everyone that knew him, agreed he as destined for greatness. A short time later he
was coronated a 33 ° Scottish Rite Mason, and was crowned Sovereign Grand
Inspector General for the Orient of Kentucky. His special aptitudes were so
evident, that it only took a short while before he was voted the Secretary General
for the Southern Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite Supreme Council. He served in
this capacity for ten years, and then was voted into Scottish Rite's highest position,
that of Grand Commander. His name is John H. Cowles.
Illustrious Cowles was not a well-educatedman, not wealthy, and thought
by many to be very controversial, but everything he did in life was for the good of
the Masonic Order. He single handedly, persistently pursued an exhaustive
campaign against the bureaucrats of Washington for a Department of Education
and compulsory education for the children of America. Even though his efforts
were not passed immediately by Congress, our neighboring State of Oregon
decided to go ahead and adopt a referendum requiring compulsory attendance for
all children in the public schools.
He was one of the first to establish a permanent foundation for the care
of sick children in America - this was long before government welfare agencies
were heard of. His penetrating focus on childhood disease, which was killing
thousands of children throughout the nation, was long before vaccination programs
and the development of antibiotics. As we all know, polio was a cruel adversary
of children' s health in those days. And it was during this period that the now
world famous Scottish Rite Children'sHospital was built in Atlanta, Georgia. This
hospital, I'm sure, was the inspiration and guiding light for the first Shriner's
Hospital to be built in Shreveport, Louisiana in l 922.
Cowles once said, "A nation cannot last as a money-making mob; it
cannot with impurity and simply plain existence, go on despising literature,
despising science, despising art, despising nature, despising compassion and
conceding its soul to every penny. The values inculcated by Freemasonry were
needed for the common good of the nation, in danger of being spoiled by the
excesses of the rich patterns of life."
Cowles was concerned about the disuse of public Masonic ceremonies,
the little attendance at Masonic Burial Services, the reduction of laying
cornerstones for public buildings. His belief was that Freemasonry offers a
"spiritual oasis, a retreat from this world; that it reinforces traditional morality, so
that the idea of the asylum promised harmony in a world, so sorely lacking it."
Does this remind you of today?

Just think, nearly l 00 years ago, it was said that the fraternity was
concerned chiefly with membership and the individual Mason, and thereby had
concentrated its attention on religion and the personal morality of its members. We
were developing a consciousness of the external world, and desired some visible
part in it, as Masons. They were saying then, that the problem of low attendance
at Lodges revealed that a large number of members had come to regard Masonry
"more as symbolic than a participatory organization".
John Cowles was a tireless promoter of job placement for our members
throughout the nation who were unemployed, and as such, set up an unofficial
national employment service. He was also exceedingly generous with his own
personal resources, rarely refusing the appeal of any family in need. It wasn't
uncommon for him to respond to a letter requesting help - with a sizeable check
from his own personal account.
Of course, Masons do this today, and they always have, and I pray they
always will. And like many men we know today, those sitting to my right, and
many of you around this Lodge room, John Cowles as a Mason's Mason.
The straight lines of history appear rarely, perhaps as often as baseball' s
seventy home runs or as infrequently as Halley's Comet. Instead, the crooked
grains of the past bend toward the present, usually bulging into the future by
rounded curves like those encircling a dark knot in a pine board. As I have learned
in my philosophy class at school, some philosophers of history insist on the grand
theme of returning cycles. They believe starting points and destinations share a
similarity approaching sameness. Consequently, we find that history does repeat
itself.

251

Surprisingly, history is not simply a turning wheel with compass points
fixed and known in advance. History indeed has its circles, but it also has its
crooked roads.
This is apparent in the ever-ancient and ever-new question - where are
we going? It is, however, a far more problematic question than - where have we
been?
From the past, a historian can extrapolate a few tendencies, underline
noticeable trends, examine causes and outcomes. But these variables do not help
predict next year's weather. Rathertha n a sense of inevitability about the cyclical
lessons of history and their bearing on what happens next. A trustworthy and
memorable coincidence occasionally offers the interlude that lets us have history
both ways - as nothing new under the sun - and surprisin gly- as a direct beam
of light to direct our future.

253

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No time or place on earth, in all of history, has the work and deeds of the
Freemasons been more evident than today. Our history and our future certainly has
the direct reflection of a perfect light.
I've often been puzzled, as you have been, why doesn 'tthe general public
- yes, and even some of our own members- see us for what and who we really
are?
Do you think, maybe, we might need a uniform of some kind, like the
Salvation Army, or wear an arm band with a cross on it, or hang a stethoscope
around our neck or a uniform like the paramedics? No, I don'tthink so! For when
you think about it, we do have a uniform, but its one that can only be seen by those
who see our good works. The uniform we wear is a perfect fit, for it fits around
our heart. It's given to us when we kneel at the altar, and take our obligations.
You may not have noticed it at the time, but you were fitted with a coat of human
relief, trousers with pockets full of caring love, shoes that will take you to every
needy person you can find. You wear a shirt of purity, and a tie of brotherly love
with the design of charity written all over it. Your gloves are of pure lambskin in
which you carry.the Holy Writings of your individual faith, and under your arms
are the square, compass and level, all three so symbolic of our way of life.

Remember the standards that Grand Commander Cowles exemplified.
We must keep those same standards in our vision to make possible that which is
impossible, make honest that which is dishonest and reinstitute goodness as a
standard in our everyday life.
We know that when Freemasons stand united, they truly will leave an
"Indelible Impression".
So in conclusion and with remembrance of the past, and a heart filled with
love and gratitude from the little lady of93, who always believed in her son and
in Freemasonry - and also with my heart hull of teary eyed sentiment and
wonderful memories and dreams - my mother of 93, my children and
grandchildren, Virginia and I - thank you for the privilege of serving the greatest
and most honorable fraternity in the history of mankind. Thank you.

252

Yes, you have a beautiful uniform, and many in this world have seen it,
but many more have not - and this is our challenge. You see, I have a vision and
a challenge. Maybe it's the same as yours. I can see men of all ages searching for
a better life, better surroundings, a better universal world to live in. This vision and
challenge includes a society of people without needs of the flesh, a happy people
with purity in their souls. A society void of selfish wants. I see men of all ages
wanting to share their lives with others, to maintain an environment of traditional
values worthy of our Lord's plan for all mankind.
At the front of this vision and challenge, I see the square and compass
being handed out to every man who understands the purpose for our creation as a
brotherhood, with a charge to lead the way to that perfect life, as it was intended
in the beginning. We have all been given the tools of learning, and with these
tools, we can teach and influence those who follow us in the ways of righteousness
and of goodness.
There still are, as there always have been and always will be, frontiers to
conquer, discoveries undreamed still remain. The greatest literature has not yet
been written; the finest painting has not yet been painted; the finest symphony has
not yet been composed, our wonderful fraternity has not yet seen its finest day. In
this vision and challenge, I see new and exciting horizons.
If we can but maintain the initiative and develop the imagination to
penetrate them, we will see that society which is reserved for only the good.

Respectfully submitted,
Thomas M. Boles, Grand Orator

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPENDIX I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

257

GRAND MASTE R'S DECISIO N AND RECOMM ENDATI ONS

Grand Master Wordlow 's Decision No. 1
Last year Grand Lodge approved Grand Master Gresham's Decision No.
1, which was to suspend the Master of Pasadena Lodge No. 272, pending further
investigation into alleged financial irregularities in the Lodge. My Decision No.
l was to continue that suspension pending the conclusion of the investigation.
The investigation led to the filing of Masonic charges, and ultimately to
the expulsion of the Master. Although my Decision No. l is of historical interest
only now, you must still vote on it. I therefore request your approval of my
Decision No. 1.
Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
The Grand Master continued the suspension of the Master of Pasadena
Lodge No. 272 until the conclusion of the present investigation of the
circumstances outlined in the letter of October 6, 1997 from Grand Master
Gresham.
Section l 050c of the California Masonic Code authorizes the Grand
Master to suspend the Master of any chartered Lodge until the next Annual
Communication. This situation involves serious financial irregularities and
therefore the Grano Master's Decision is in accord with our policy and general
purposes.

Decision AFFIRMED.
Grand Master Wordlow 's Decision No. 2
After due deliberation, I have decided that the reduction of the
Candidate's Proficiencies for the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees,
as approved by Grand Lodge at the last Annual Communication, is optional rather
than mandatorv.
It is therefore my decision that each candidate in this jurisdiction may
decide on his own whether or not he proves his proficiency by learning the
traditional "long form" of the proficiency, or by learning the Obligation, and the
signs, words, and modes of recognition .QD!y. In each case, the demonstration of
the proficiency of the candidate shall be in a tiled Lodge in the manner approved
by the Grand Lecturer.

259

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I would remind you that the adoption of Resolution No. 96-05 did IlQ!
shorten the Proficiency in the Master Mason Degree. The only option for that
proficiency remains the "long form" as before.

Grand Master Wordlo w's Decision No. 3
I have been called upon to decide ifthe California Masonic Code, or our
in
adopted Ritual prohibits the wearing of personal religious articles and apparel
which
our lodges. I have decided that there is nothing in our law or in our Ritual
would orohibit such acts of personal religious devotion.
While Freemasonry requires a belief in a Supreme Being, it encourages
each man to follow the dictates of his own religion in matters of conscience. This
has been so from the formation of the first Grand Lodge in 1717, and from which
all legitimate Freemasonry springs. The fU"St Constitutions of Freemasonry,
adopted by our Mother Grand Lodge, the Grand Lodge of England, in 1723, could
not make our position more clear. The First Charge of 1723 sets forth our Masonic

258

Report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has decided that the reduction of Proficiencies for the
the
Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees, as approved by Grand Lodge at
111
148 Annual Communication, ( 1996 Carry-over Resolution No. 96-05) is optional
rather than mandatory.
At the 1997 Annual Communication, Carry-over Resolution No. 96-05
the
was passed. The Resolution amended Section 26340 to state explicitly that
Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft shall only be required to recite from memory
the obligation and modes of recognition. This amendment, as well as the fact that
the word "entirely" was removed from the phrase "entirely proficient'', a phrase
referring to the long form, indicates that there is no provision for an optional Jong
form.
However, Section 26430 then goes on to describe the method to be
employed when more than one candidate is to be examined. It is explicitly stated
s
that the questions are to be asked in rotation. The short form has no question
that
s
question
only
The
n.
obligatio
the
repeat
to
posed; the candidate is directed
arise are the ones during the challenge regarding the modes of recognition; clearly,
of
these are not to be answered in rotation by several candidates. The retention
basis
legal
a
provide
could
form,
long
the
to
these directions, which also referred
O
for claiming that a long form option is present. As it is now written, Section 2643
us.
is ambiguo
Report ofthe Committee on Ritual:
It has always been our endeavor to oppose options in our Ritual. The
the
adoption of Resolution No. 96-05 shortened the Candida te's Proficiencies for
made
Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees. No inference was ever
cy
~uggesting ~~t a Lodge or a Candidate had the option of delivering the proficien
the
be
never
should
it
that
maintain
we
and
form"
m the trad1t10nal "long
our
Candida te's choice to make. Options tend to take away from the uniformity of
our
in
ncy
consiste
maintain
to
striving
in
pride
takes
Ritual. The Ritual Committee
Ritual and believes that Grand Master's Decision No. 2 does nots upport its effort.
We recommend that this Grand Lodge not support this Decision.
Decision AFFIRMED.

obligation in this manner:
A Mason, is obliged, by his Tenure, to obey the moral Law; and if he
rightly understand the Art, he will never be a stupid Atheist, nor an
irreligious Libertine. But though in ancient Times Masons were charg' d
in every Country to be of the Religion of that Country or Nation,
whatever it was, yet 'tis now thought more expedient only to oblige them
to that Religion in which all Men agree, leaving their particular Opinions
to themselves; that is, to be good Men and true, or Men of Honour and
Honesty, by whatever Denominations or Persuasions they may be
distinguish'd; whereby Masonry becomes the Center of Union, and the
Means of conciliating true Friendship among Persons that must have
remain'd at a perpetual Distance.
This, the fU"St of the "Six Charges of a Free-Mason" which were adopted
as
by the fU"St Grand Lodge in the world in 1723, comes as close to a Landmark
so
is
onry
Freemas
anything in Freemasonry. I have decided that this Landmark of
fundamentally importantto the welfare of the Craft in California, that our customs
our
and traditions must conform to it. And as I can find nothing in our law or in
am
I
nce,
custom that forbids the wearing of personal articles of religious significa
atTmning that the same is allowed .
In addition, Sectiom 380 of the California Masonic Code prohibits Grand
Lodge and any constituent Lodge from interfering or voicing an opinion with
regard to religious matters. If we prohibit any Mason from wearing personal
religious articles, apparel or other emblems or symbols of his faith, then we have
not
voiced an opinion about his religion. We will have thus told him that we do
respect his particular religious practices, and this is against our law.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This decision allows a priest or a rabbi to wear clerical clothing
appropriateto their profession when in our lodges, it allows jewelry and pins, such
as crosses or other religious symbols, to be worn, and it will allow our Jewish
brethren who choose to do so, to wear the yannulke when sitting in lodge.
done so.

I have been called upon as Grand Master to rule in this matter, and I have

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Grand Master Wordlow' sDecision No. 3 will permit the wearing of items
of personal religious devotion in our Lodges. This decision is in hannony with
Section 380 of our California Masonic Code, which prohibits interferring, or
voicing an opinion, with regard to religious matters. Personal religious headwear
is not worn, and should not be construed as being worn, to confuse the identity of
the presiding officer, who is the only person entitled to wear a hat in a tiled Lodge.
We all recognize that this is a very sensitive matter, and we suggest that
any future incidents or concerns be addressed with due diligence and concern with
regard to our Grand Lodge policy, which includes our ritual practice.
Report ofthe Committee on Ritual:

Two years ago, after much objection by the Ritual Committee, the
wearing of yannulkes at Masonic funeral ceremonies was approved by the Grand
Lodge of California. It was thought at the time that this practice would be
restricted to funerals.
About a month ago, a newly appointed Inspector called me in order to
ascertain what the guidelines were for wearing any headgear other than the top hat
in Lodge. He further stated that one of the officers in his District was wearing a
skull cap in Lodge. I asked him to advise the officer that, in this jurisdiction, no
one other than the Master wears a head covering, namely the top hat. Several days
later, the officer in question called to discuss the matter with me. I asked him to
please call back in about an hour as I was then engaged in another matter that
needed my immediate attention. I did not receive a return call. Several days later,
however, I received a copy of a letter sent to our Grand Master castigating me and
saying that I was a "Jew hater". My Brethren, I do not deserve either that abuse
or that label.
It has long been the establishedcustom in thisjurisdiction,as in most, that
the only person in the Lodge whose head is covered is the presiding officer. In the
Marshal's interrogations the candidate agrees that he will "cheerfully conform to
all the ancient established usages and customs of the fraternity".

261

th
d"date is admonished "never to
Again in the !~ird Degreeu~h=!~lis:ec::u~toms". The desire to wear a
countenance any dev1at1on fro~ o d . . ·olationofboth of these principles.
th h d
Yarmulke or any other head gear m Lo ge is m v1
. 0 fa yarmulke or any o er ea
We believe that permitting the wearmg
in Lodge is a deviation from our established customs.
gear
We regret we cannot support our Grand Master in this matter and
recommend a "No" vote.
Decision FAILED.
Grand Master Wordlow's Recommendation No. 1
Financial Accountability
··
d financial integrity are important to our
.
.
Fmanc1al accountab1h~c~·fornia The reputation of all lodges can be
lodges, and to the Grand Lodge o .. a I d fi~ancial integrity by one lodge, and to
damaged by the lack ofaccountab1htyan .
"b Tty f the Grand Lodge
protect the reputation of the Craft in general is a respons1 I I o
of California.
b d t and use the
Lodges with sound financialpractices.alwayds h?ve ~e uye~ 'In addition,
"d r ti the making of expenditures urmg
.
budget as a gm e
or
II as ood fmancial practices, require the
our present Masomc law' as we d g H
er the present law does not require
of expenditures by vote of the lo ged owe; d~es not require any standardized
the adoption of a bud~et by the ~o ge, fian a roval to the lodge. Nor does it
procedures for ~resentmg expend1~res tr~:k ~~such expenditures. This lack of
require standardized forms for ~eep~g I dges and a greater difficulty for our
"ti
.
tr "butes to confusion m our o
'
um orm1ty
con
officers
who
are Ielected to manage the fimances of the lodge than is necessary.
.
I
Accordingly, I am recommen d"mg that the following changes m our aw
be adopted by Grand Lodge:

~e

appro~al

I.

All lodges should be required to adopt a budget at thedfirst stated
meeting after the installation of the Master of the lo ge ..

2.

All lodges should be required to vote to authorize ex~end1:e~
even though budgeted in advance, so that the mem ers o
what financial liabilities are being incurred by the lodge.

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3.

4.

Lodges should be pennitted to approve bills against the lodge
only when the bills are supported by proper documentation, such
as an invoice or receipt.
The semi-annual reports of the Secretary and the Treasurer
should be made on standard fonns as approved by the Grand
Master. And a copy of those reports should be transmitted to the
Grand Lodge.

As Grand Master I ask your support for this needed legislation.
If this recommendation is adopted, Section 210 l 0 of the California
Masonic Code will be amended to read as marked:

§21010. CONTRO L AND USE.
A Lodge must retain control of its own funds and property. It may
deposit its funds in a sound and reputable bank or banks. A Chartered
Lodge may, after receiving consent from the Grand Lodge Committee on
Temple Properties and Taxation, cause the incorporation of a Temple
Association for the purpose of purchasing, erecting or maintaining and
holding title to real estate for a temple for Lodge uses and purposes, and
a Lodge or Lodges may hold shares of stock in such corporation. Space
in such temple may be rented for commercial and other uses consistent
with the purposes of the Lodge or the corporation and not in violation of
this Code.
A Lodge shall not incorporate. It shal not divide its funds or property
with its members, even those withdrawing to form a new Lodge or with
the new Lodge thus formed. A Lodge shall not divide its funds with an
existing Lodge by way of a contribution.
A Lodae shall adqpt a budaet for the followina twelve months at the first
Stated Meeting held after the annual installation of the officers of the
~No money shall be drawn without the express consent of the Lodge. even
thou&}l included in a Lodi:;e budeet. except that:
A.

Dispensed by the Charity Committee;

B.

Due Grand Lodge; and

C.

Required to pay the taxes or other charges of local, State or
Federal governmental agencies.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

263

Lodges may ;mprove bms ai::ainst the Lodge onlv when the bms are
supported by proper documentation. such as an invoice or recei~t. No
warrant shall be drawn unless there are sufficient funds to honor it.
A Lodge shall not invest any of its funds in any manne~ o~ obligate itse_lf
in any way for the purpose of acquiring land or buddmg a Masomc
temple except upon compliance with the provisions of this Code.
A Lodge shall not establish or form a foundation separate from the L~ge
with power to receive, hold, administer, invest or reinvest funds received
by the Lodge.
In addition, Section 25230 of the California Masonic Code will be
amended to read as marked:

§25230. DUTIES OF SECRETA RY.
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to:

A.

B.

c.
D.

E.

Record all proceedings at each meeting proper to be written,
under the direction of the Master, and to transcribe the same in
a minute book to be kept for that purpose, and at the next Stated
Meeting to read the minutes to the Lodge and, after they are
approved, to present them to the Master for his signa~e. A~er
approval no change may be made except by appropnate motion
properly recorded;
Present to the Lodge at each August Stated Meeting, a statement
of income and expenditures, assets and liabilities. on a form
promulgatedtzy the Grand Master. for the six months end~d on
the preceding June 30, and at each February Stated Meetm~ a
similar statement for the 12 months ended on the preceding
December 31, and to submit a copy thereof to the Inspector of
the District to which the Lodge is assigned and to the Grand
Master;
Prepare and transmit a copy of such record, or of any part
thereof, to Grand Lodge, when required;
Collect and receive all monies due the Lodge and pay them to
the Treasurer;
Keep the seal of the Lodge and affix it with his attestation to all
papers issued under its authority or in obedience to all the

264

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

F.

G.

265

requirements of the Constitution and Ordinances of Grand
Lodge;

b.

Dates of their initiation, passing, raising, or
affiliation,

Transmit a Certificate of Election, accompanied by a copy of the
dispensation, if required, when the election is held at a time
other than that prescribed, to the Grand Secretary, immediately
after each election in the Lodge;

c.

Name, number and location of the Lodges of
which those affiliated last were members,

d.

Age and occupation of each when received,
and

e.

Dates of their withdrawal, expulsion,
suspension, death, or restoration.

Transmit reports to the Grand Secretary in such rom and with
such frequency as the Grand Secretary shall determine, but in no
event more frequently than monthly nor less frequently than
annually;

H.

Transmit with the annual report to the Grand Secretary the
number of life members, the amount of the fund thus created,
and the manner in which the fund is invested;

I.

Transmit with the annual returns to the Grand Secretary the
names, dates of initiation, passing and raising, and the dates of
death of all permanent members of Grand Lodge;

J.

Report all rejections for the degrees, expulsions, suspensions,
and restorations to the Grand Secretary, immediately after their
occurrence, in the forms provided;

K.

Promptly notify an applicant who is not elected in writing of his
rejection, and refund all fees and contributions paid;

L.

Furnish to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board such
information pertaining to matters affecting or relating to his
Lodge as may be requested from time to time;

M.

Send the required notification to delinquent dues;

N.

Keep, in such form as may be provided, the following books of
the Lodge;
I.
A minute book, in which he shall record all the
transactions of the Lodge proper to be written of all
Stated and Special Meetings,

0.

4.

A register, to be kept in the Tiler's room, in which all
members and all visitors shall record their names, and
the names, numbers, and locations of their respective
Lodges, before entering the Lodge. All entries shall be
in ink or other permanent writing; and

5.

A set of such account books as may be necessary to
present clearly:
a.

The account of each member with the Lodge,

b.

The receipts of the Secretary which provide a
clear and permanent record of all monies
received and from whom received with
accounts outstanding, if any,

c.

His payments to the Treasurer; and

Preserve the Code which may from time to time be published,
together with all the printed Proceedings.

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has recommended that Lodge Financial Accountability
be improved and the Lodge semi-annual reports of the Secretary and Treasurer be
made on standard forms .
This Recommendationmore clearly defines the process whereby funds are
expended by the Lodge and the subsequent reporting thereof.

2.

A book of By-laws, for the signatures of the members
in the order of their admission, in which he shall see
that each member signs his name in full,

This Recommendation is consistent with Grand Lodge policy and general
purposes.

3.

A roll book, in which he shall record, upon pages
alphabetically arranged, the:

Recommendation CARRIED-OVER.

a.

Full name or names of all members of the
Lodge,

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CARRY -OVER LEGISL ATION

1997 ANNUA L COMM UNICA TION
Grand Master Gresha m's Recomm endation No. 1
Elimination of Candidates Proficiencies
The winds of change are blowing across the world of Freemasonry as we
prepare ourselves to enter the next millennium. No change is being discussed more
widely than what should be required of candidates for o~r degrees, and how
quickly they should progress toward becoming a Master Mason. In some oth~r
m
jurisdictions candidate proficiencies have been modified or reduced, or even
day
"one
the
at
look
to
but
has
One
entirety.
their
some cases, eliminated in
classes" where all three degrees are conferred in one day.
Grand Lodge has grappled with the issue of changing the candidate
proficiencies several times before, and this year we will consider Carry-Over
Resolution No. 96-05 which would limit the proficiencies to the signs, words,
modes of recognition, and memorization of the Obligation of each degree. I am
laying before Grand Lodge as my Recommendation No. 1 another option.
It is my recommendation that we eliminate the traditional co~cept of .a
it
memorized candidate's proficiency after each of the degrees and substitute for
be
would
e
candidat
The
ion.
recognit
of
modes
and
words,
instruction in the signs,
instructed privately, and he would not be required to demonstrate them before the
lodge. In addition, after his Third Degree the newly raised Master Mason would
be taught how to pass a suitable examination using these signs, words, and mo~es
of recognition, should he wish to visit another Lodge.. ~e would als? receive
instruction on the use of his dues card to prove that he 1s m good standmg when
e
traveling. This recommendation eliminates in its entirety the need to memoriz
cy.
proficien
one's
Jong portions ofritual in demonstrating
The current code does not place any restriction on the speed with which
to
a candidate can progress through the degrees. He is limited solely by his ability
these
ing
Eliminat
Lodge.
the
before
them
recite
to
memorize the proficiencies and
memorized proficiencies would raise the possibility of conferring all ~he degrees
we
in one day, a practice which I do not favor. I am therefore recommendmg th~t
e
candidat
the
enable
to
degree,
each
establish a minimum waiting period between
the
for.
ty
oppo~i
an
provide
to
to reflect upon what he has experienced, and
Lodge to instruct the candidate in the meaning behind the ceremomes. I behev.e
that this "waiting period" should be no less than twenty days. If a man must wait
at least twenty days between each degree, he will have ample opportunity to reflect

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

267

upon the meaning of the degree he has received. Also, the Lodge will have the
he
opportunity to provide for a reasonable amount of candidate education before
believe
I
for
ry
mandato
be
n
educatio
such
that
ending
recomm
not
progresses. I am
that such should be left to the discretion of each Lodge. However, the Grand
Secretary's Office has available instructional materials which can be used for
candidate education, including booklets containing information for each of the
three degrees.
The time has come for our Grand Lodge to make a decision on the
important matter for candidate proficiencies and candidate advancement. We have
far too many Entered Apprentices who fail to advance, partly because they cannot
or will not memorize our lengthy proficiencies. My proposal would restore any
fees that either Entered Apprentices or Fellow Crafts have forfeited, and allow
them to continue should they so desire. Without the need to memorize a large
quantity ofritual, many, if not most, may choose to become Master Masons.
Ifwe do nothing we will continue to lose far too many of those who have
e
voluntarily sought to become Masons, and then found that our extensiv
t
importan
this
make
we
If
them.
for
much
to
memorization requirements were
of
way
different
a
to
s
ourselve
change in our requirements we will commit
instructing our candidates in the future. I believe that the time has arrived to make
this commit ment- for the new millennium![insert text]
If this recommendation is adopted, Section 26340 of the California
Masonic Code wi.U be amended to read as marked:
§26340. ADVANCEMENT.
A Lodge shall advance an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft
to a higher degree ifhe has given satisfactory evidence, by strict
examination in open Lodge, that he is entirely proficient and
well qualified in the degrees which he has already taken. Any
number of applicants may be examined at a meeting, but not
more than five shall be examined at any one time with the
questions being asked in rotation. Such examination shall be
held in front of the East between the altar and the Master's
station.
No Lodge may advance an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft
to a higher degree until the lapse of twenty days after the
conferral of the last degree which he has received. No Entered
Apprentice or Fellow Craft shall be required to memorize any
portion ofa Candidate's Lecture ofa degree for advancement.
He shall be instructed privately in the signs, words and modes of

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

recognition of the degrees through which he has passed.
Following the conferral on a man of the Degree of Master
Mason, he shall be instructed privately on how to pass a suitable
examination using the signs, words and modes of recognition
and his dues card, should be wish to visit another Lodge.
If for any reason there is an erroneous conferral of a degree or
degrees, the candidate retains the status reached but must wait
one year and present an application for a higher degree or
degrees.

mail, with return receipt requested, deposited in the U.S. Post
Office, addressed to him at his last known address a notice
advising him that unless he shall present himself qu~lified for
advancement, on or before a specified date, at least 60 days in
advance, his fees for the unconferred degrees and all of his
previous contributions will be declared forfeited.
On the date specified, the Master shall declare the fees forfeited
unless further time has been granted by vote of the Lodge.
A candidate thus denied advancement shall be considered only
~an Entered~pprenticeor a Fellow Craft of the Lodge with the
n~t of applymg for the remaining degree or degrees, and again
~aym~ t~e fees and contributions therefor, subject to
mvest1gatton and election, the same as any other applicant.

In addition, Section 26330 of the California Masonic Code will be
repealed and a new Section 26330 adopted to read as follows:
§26330. RESTORATION OF PREVIOUSLY FORFEITED
FEES.
Any Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft who failed to present
himself for advancement to the next higher degree, and whose
fees and contributions shall have been forfeited for failure to
advance in accordance with the laws of this Jurisdiction
previously in effect, shall have all such fees and contributions
restored as if no action to forfeit these fees had ever taken place.
He shall be restored automatically as an Entered Apprentice or
Fellow Craft, as the case may be, as ifthe forfeiture had never
taken place, and shall be entitled to advancement by presenting
himself to the Lodge.
For your convenience, I set forth the current version of Section 26330 which would
be repealed by this recommendation:
§26330. FORFEITURE OF FEES AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
When a candidate does not present himself qualified for the
Fellow Craft and Master Mason Degrees within a period of three
years from the date of his initiation, the Master shall appoint a
committee of two or more members of the Lodge to investigate
and report back to the Master the reason why the candidate has
not done so. If the candidate does not supply an explanation
satisfactory to the Lodge, the Master shall direct the Secretary to
forward to the candidate either by registered letter or certified

269

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Grandl':'1~terGres~am'sCarry-overRecommendationNo. 1 proposes to
ehm~nate all trad1ttonalcand1date proficiencies that require memorized work. The
candidate would be instruct~~ privately and would be required to learn the signs,
. .

words and modes of recogn1tton, but would not be required to demonstrate them
before the Lodge. It also includes a provision for a waiting period of 20 days
between degrees.

.

. There . is_ a potential problem with eliminating the Third Degree
~ofic1e?cy . Th~s 1s the only occasion in our Ritual in which the candidate receives
mstruct1on relatmg to the unwritten law prohibiting solicitation. However, even
thou~ n~w some Master Masons do not complete the Third Degree Proficiency
ex~m~t10n and ~~s are not formally instructed about the prohibition against
sohc~tat1on, _to ~hmmate the proficiency entirely could perhaps result in no
candidate bemg mformed of the unwritten law.
This ~ecom~endation is consistent with the overall general purposes of
Grand Lodge m that 1t encourages membership application and retention.
However, the elimination of the proficiencies is not consistent with our
current policy. It_is inconsistent with both our policy and general purposes not to
educate our candidates about our prohibition of solicitation .
Recommendation NOT ADOPTED.

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Resolution No. 97-05
Substitutes 'Holy Writings' for 'Holy Bible' in the Ritual
The proponents of this Resolution seek to substitute the words 'Holy Writings' for
the words 'Holy Bible' everywhere they appear in the Ritual.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
WHEREAS, numerous members of our beloved ancient and honorable
fraternity are voicing concern over the use of the term 'Holy Bible' in the
California Masonic ritual;
WHEREAS, a strong implication exists which indicates the JudeoChristian persuasion is to be held in reverence above all other religious bodies;
WHEREAS, our Craft teaches that we recognize and accept men of all
faiths, as long as they believe in a Supreme Being and life hereafter;
WHEREAS, while most members acquiesced in the past and did not
question the use of the words 'Holy Bible' in ritual work, individuals openly
voiced concern about having to refer to their Holy Writings as a 'Holy Bible' once
our California Grand Lodge adopted the use of alternate Holy Writings;
WHEREAS, no member, thus far, has objected to use of the term 'Holy
Writings' in lieu of the term 'Holy Bible';
WHEREAS, our Third Degree lecture begins, "[w]e read in the Holy
Writings that it was decreed in the wisdom and counsels of Deity aforetime, that
a house should be built, erected to God and dedicated to His Holy Name"; and
WHEREAS, the words 'Holy Writings' may be substituted for the words
'Holy Bible' everywhere they appear in the Ritual without great difficulty, as the
syllables are the same and changes can be readily made in the Monitor and Cipher
by lining through the word 'Bible' and writing in the word 'Writings' in the space
immediately above.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVEDthatthe Ritual be amended to
substitute the words 'Holy Writings' for the words 'Holy Bible' everywhere they
appear.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that any Brother who so desires may be
re-obligated in the Degree of Master Mason on the Holy Writings of his choice
selected from those authorized by Section 26295 of the California Masonic Code.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to substitute the words "Holy
Writings" for the words "Holy Bible" everywhere they appear in the Ritual. They
also have added a second part, that would make it possible for a Brother to be reobligated on the Holy Writings of his choice. The word "Bible" is defined in every
dictionary as including the sacred writings or books of any religion. Therefore, the
words "Holy Bible" and "Holy Writings" are synonymous.
Further, if one were to address every slight difference between the
monitor, cipher ritual, etc., there would be no end to the changes that make no
difference in the intent of the Ritual. To make available the re-obligation of many
men on a different"Holy Writings" would not be consistent with the intent of our
obligation.
This Resolution is not consistent with Grand Lodge policy or general
purposes.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Resolution No. 97-07
Addresses Procedures When Alternate Holy Writings Are Used
The proponents of this Resolution seek to clarify and modify the procedures when
alternate Holy Writings are used.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
WHEREAS, Grand Lodge approved Recommendation No. 5 of Grand
Master R. Stephen Doan at the l 44th Annual Communication to provide for the
use of alternative Holy Writings by a candidate who is of a religious faith other
than the Christian religion;
WHEREAS, that legislation provided that when alternate Holy Writings
are used, a closed Holy Bible must also be on the altar;
WHEREAS, the Christian Bible is a symbol only for the Christian
religion; and
WHEREAS, there is no valid reason that the alternate Holy Writings on
which the candidate is obligated could not be the only book on the altar, both for
the obligation and for all ritual work conducted during that particular degree.

272

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 26295 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:

the Holy Bible may be used for the opening and
closing of the Lodge.
E.

When alternate Holy Writings are used during a
degree, a closed Holy Bib le of any size must be on the
altar. the book selected shall be the only Holy Writings
on the altar.

F.

Alternate Holy Writings may be used only at a Lodge
meeting during which a man selecting the alternate
Holy Writings receives a degree and on no other
occasion.

§26295. ALTERNATE HOLY WRITINGS.
A candidate for the degrees in Masonry may select alternate
Holy Writings on which he will be obligated, but only under the
following circumstances:
P.

B.

c.
D.

If a man does not wish to be obligated on the Holy
Bible, he must select alternate Holy Writings from a
list promulgated from time to time by the Grand Master
of the Holy Writings of those recognized religions
whose theology is not inconsistent with a belief in a
Supreme Being and a future existence. The Grand
Master's list shall at all times include the al-Kitab alAqdas of Bahaism, the Tripitaka of Buddhism, the
Analects of Confucianism, the Vedas of Hinduism, the
Koran of Islam, the Tanach of Judaism, the Koji-ki of
Shintoism, the Adi Granth of Sikhism, the Tao-te
Ching of Taoism and the Zend Avesta of
Zoroastrianism. In selecting alternate Holy Writings,
the man must state that the book chosen is the Holy
Writings of his religious faith.

273

Report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to clarify and modify the
procedures when alternate "Holy Writings" are used.
It has always been the policy of this Grand Lodge to respect a man's
religious principles, his beliefs, and to treat all religions equally.
This Resolution is consistent with Grand Lodge policy and general
purposes.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

The particular book selected for use on the altar during
the ceremonies of a man's degrees must be of a suitable
size as determined by the Ritual Committee.

Permits Tiler to Sit in the Doorway

Grand Lodge shall make available all books on the list.
Grand Lodge shall loan any book on the list upon
request to a Lodge which requires it for a degree.

The proponents of this Resolution seek to permit the Tiler to sit in the doorway to
the Lodge room when the premises are adequately secured.

The book selected shall remain on the altar throughout
the meeting during which it is used for a man's degree,
including the opening and the closing of Lodge, unless
the Lodge schedules more than one man to receive a
degree at a meeting and all men receiving a degree on
that occasion will not be obligated on the same book of
Holy Writings. In that event, the book shall be
changed when the Lodge is at refreshment after the
first section of each of between the degrees, and any of
the alternate Holy Writings used in the conferral may
be used for the opening and closing of the Lodge, or

Resolution No. 97-12

To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge, F.& A.M of California:
WHEREAS, Section 23080 of the California Masonic Code states that
members are entitled to be present and participate in Lodge proceedings;
WHEREAS, Section 160 IO of the California Masonic Code states the
Tiler is present while at his post in the Tiler's room;
WHEREAS, these two sections conflict, because a Tiler cannot
knowledgeably participate while in his room;

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WHEREAS, many Lodges are experiencing decreased membership and
many Masters are having difficulty appointing a Tiler who is content to sit in his
room and unable to participate in all Lodge proceedings;
WHEREAS, many Lodges are built with one or more outer doors that can
be locked, and may be equipped with bells, video, intercoms and/or other means
of alarm; and
WHEREAS, Lodges that lock these doors past the room immediately
adjacent to the Lodge room can use the locked doors as a barrier to the profane.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that, in Lodge meeting
facilities with one or more outer doors which can be locked and are equipped with
bells, video, intercom or other means of alarm, the Master shall have the option of
allowing the Tiler to sit within the Lodge anteroom doorway (half in and half out)
during such periods when the doors immediately adjacent to the Lodge room are
locked. Should any alarm be detected, the Tiler shall retire, close the Lodge room
door, ascertain the cause of the alarm and initiate appropriate action. When the
premises are again secure, he may reopen the Lodge room door and return to his
chair in the Lodge anteroom doorway.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
WHEREAS, while Masonic Lodges and the Grand Lodge recognize the
Hiram Award and have awarded such with a certificate, medallion and lapel pin
available through Grand Lodge, there is no actual criteria established for the award;
WHEREAS, there has been no clear guidance on the award, its purpose
and its title since the original concept of the award was proposed in Resolution No.
4 at the Grand Lodge 1979 Annual Communication, such resolution having failed
to pass because it was too restrictive on who was entitled to the award, its limit of
one award a year not taking into account a Lodge which may on occasion wish to
award more than one in a year; and
WHEREAS, the present understandingthat the award is the highest honor
that can be bestowed upon a brother by his Masonic Lodge is not proper as the
highest honor that can be bestowed on a Mason is the lambskin apron which he
received in his First Degree.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that a new Section 23155 of
the California Masonic Code be added to read as follows:
§23155. HIRAM AWARDS.

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to permit the Tiler to sit in the
doorway of the Lodge Room when the premises are adequately secured.
This Resolution opens the Lodge door and is not consistent with our
current Grand Lodge policy. However, in a secure environment, it does allow the
Tiler to observe Lodge proceedings and is consistent with the purposes of Grand
Lodge.
Resolution ADOPTED.
Resolution No. 97-14

Establishes Rules/or the Hiram Award
The proponents of this Resolution seek to establish qualifications and procedures
for bestowing the Hiram A ward.

275

The Grand Lodge, upon request of a Masonic Lodge under its
jurisdiction, shall furnish a certificate honoring the Master
Mason designated by the Lodge as a recipient of the Hiram
Award. The certificate shall be delivered to the Masonic Lodge
for presentation to the recipient. The Grand Lodge shall make
available for purchase a medallion and lapel pin for recipients of
the Hiram Award.
The Lodge may only designate for the Hiram Award a Master
Mason who has served the Lodge and the Masonic Fraternity
with devotion over and above the ordinary. Service as an officer
or as Master of a Lodge shall not be in itself sufficient
qualification for the award nor shall it be a disqualification. The
award should be based on what the recipient has done, not what
positions he has held.
The Hiram A ward shall be considered the highest honor for
service that can be bestowed upon a member by a Masonic
Lodge. The presentation should be made with appropriate
ceremony. When a selection has been made, it should be
announced so the recipient may invite family and friends to the
award presentation. To maintain the prestige and importance of

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Hiram Award, a Lodge may present only one Hiram Award
in any one calendar year. Such limitation should not suggest
that this award should be presented every year.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 26060 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:
§26060. JURISDICTION TO RECEIVE APPLICATIONS.

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

The proponents of this Resolution seek to establish qualifications and
procedures for bestowing the Hiram Award.
It has been the policy of this Grand Lodge to have a Lodge present the
Hiram Award to a Brother who, through the years, has served the Lodge with
devotion over and above the ordinary.
This Resolution establishes guidelines for the reception and presentation
of this prestigious award. This Resolution is consistent with Grand Lodge policy
and purposes.
Resolution ADOPTED.

Resolution No. 97-16
Allows for Notification ofApplications for Degrees or Affiliation

277

[

Any Lodge in this Jurisdiction can receive and act on an
application for any degrees of Masonry from a qualified resident
of this Jurisdiction. If the applicant is a candidate of another
Lodge, his application must be accompanied by a Waiver of
Jurisdiction from the Lodge of which he is a candidate, directed
to the Lodge to which he is applying.
A Lodge shall notify any other Lodge or Lodges within I 0 miles
of its place of meeting of any applications it may receive for
degrees or affiliation within I 0 days after receipt. Notification
to the Masonic Service Bureau or to the Masonic Secretaries
Association, whichever operates a clearing house for
applications for the degrees and for dual or plural membership
by affiliation, in the area in which the Lodge is situated shall be
deemed to constitute notification to other Lodges within I 0
miles.

Through a Masonic Secretaries Association
Report ofthe Co"Jmittee on Policy and Gener':'/ Purposes:

The proponents of this Resolution seek to allow Lodges to give notification to
other Lodges of applications for degrees or affiliation through the local Masonic
Secretaries Association.

The proponents of this Resolution seek to allow Lodges to give
notification to other Lodges of applications for degrees or affiliation through the
local Masonic Secretaries Association.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:

It is the policy of this Grand Lodge to provide every safeguard possible,
so that a Lodge may be assured that a candidate making application, or a Mason
applying for affiliation, is worthy and well qualified, no matter what avenue is used
or employed.

.
WHEREAS, the California Masonic Code states that "[a] Lodge shall
notify any other Lodge or Lodges within IO miles of its place of meeting of any
applications it may receive ... ";
WHEREAS, the California Masonic Code also provides that the
notification of the Masonic Service Bureau in the area shall be deemed notification
to other Lodges;
WHEREAS, in some areas of California the Masonic Secretaries
Association has for many years received these notifications and in tum made
notification to the Lodge in the area; and
WHEREAS, in these areas such notification is not in compliance with the
California Masonic Code.

This Resolution is consistent with current Grand Lodge policy and
purposes.
Resolution ADOPTED.

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1998 RESO LUT IONS
Reso lution No. 98-01
Expands Proficiencies in the First Two Degrees

to Include
Explanation ofApro n and Working Tools and Short
ens
the Master Mason's Proficiency

The proponents of this Resolution seek to expand
the candidate's proficiencies in
the first two degrees to include the explanation
of the Lambskin Apron in the
Entered Apprentice degree and the applicable work
ing tools in the first two degrees
and to shorten the Master Mason proficiency to the
obligation, working tools, signs
and modes of recognition.
To the Most Worshipful Gran d Lodge, F.& A.M

of California :
WHEREAS, this Grand Lodge, at its 148th Annu
al Communication in
1997, limited the proficiencies necessary to the advan
cement of Entered Apprentice
and Fellow Craft Masons to the obligation, signs
and modes of recognition of each
degree;

WHEREAS, the legislation adopted at the I48th Annu
al Communication
did not specifically define the nature of the profic
iency of a Master Mason;
WHEREAS, it is desirable that the proficiencie
s for all three degrees
under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge be equal
ly and clearly defined in the
same portion of the California Masonic Code;
WHEREAS, the Fellow Craft degree specificall
y reminds every Mason
in this jurisdiction of the reason why Freemasonr
y has survived when the lapse of
time, the ruthless hand of ignorance and the devas
tations of war have laid waste
and destroyed many valuable monuments of antiq
uity, including the Temple of
Solomon;
WHEREAS, the reason given in the Fellow Craft
degree for the survival
of Freemasonry is that tools and implements of
architecture most expressive are
selected by the Fraternity to imprint upon the mem
ory wise and serious truths; and
thus, through the succession of ages, are transmitted
unimpaired the most excellent
tenets of our institution; and
WHEREAS, the reason given in the Fellow Craft
degree for the survival
of Freemasonry is, in the judgm ent of this Grand
Lodge, an accurate, truthful and
wise expression of historical reality which will conti
nue to apply in the future.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

279

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that
Section 26340 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:
§26340. ADVANCEMENT.
A Lodge shall advance an Entered Apprentice or
Fellow Craft
to a higher degree if he has given satisfactory
evidence, by
examination in open Lodge, that he is profic
ient and well
qualified in the degrees which he has alread
y taken. To
demonstrate such proficiency, an Entered Apprentice
or Fellow
Craft shall only be required to recite from memory
the obligation
of each degree, together with the explanation of
the working
tools and the signs and modes of recognition of each
degree. In
addition to the foregoing requirements, to demo
nstrate such
proficiency, an Entered Apprentice shall be requi
red to recite
from memory the explanation of the lambskin
apron . Any
number of applicants may be examined at a meeti
ng, but not
more than five shall be examined at any one
time with the
questions being asked in rotation. Such examinatio
n shall be
held in front of the East between the altar and
the Mast er's
station.
If for any reason there is an erroneous conferral
of a degree or
degrees, the candidate retains the status reached
but must wait
one year and present an application for a highe
r degree or
degrees.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a new Section
26345 be added to the
California Masonic Code to read as follows:
§26345. PROFICIENCY IN THE MASTER
MASON
DEGREE.
To obtain a Certificate of Proficiency in the Cand
idate's Lecture
of the Master Mason Degree, a Master Maso
n must give
satisfactory evidence, by examination in open Lodg
e, that he is
proficient and well qualified in the Master Maso
n degree. To
demonstrate such proficiency, a Master Mason
shall only be
required to recite from memory the obligation
of a Master
Mason, together with the explanation of the work
ing tools and
the signs and modes of recognition of that degre
e.

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This Resolution seeks to expand the candidate's proficiencies in the first
two degrees to include the explanation o.f the L~bskin Apron in the Entered
Apprentice degree and the applicableworkmgt~ls 1? the first.two degre~s and to
shorten the Master Mason proficiency to the obhgat1on, workmg tools, signs and
modes of recognition.
It would also require that a new Section 26345 be added to the California
Masonic Code to read as follows:

281

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. ofCalifornia:
WHEREAS, qualified Master Masons who are not officers are penn itted
to participate in the conferral of degrees;
WHEREAS, other Grand Lodges have success fully allowed the working
tool lectures to be delivered by any qualified Master Mason, not just the presiding
officer;
WHEREAS, involving more members in our degrees will not detract from
nor prolong the degrees but may expand participation;
WHEREAS, the actual ritual would remain the same with the sole
"· and
exception of changing the word "I" to "Brother

"To obtain a Certificate of Proficiency in the Candidate's Lectur~ of the
Master Mason Degree, a Master Mason must give satisfactory ev~denc~,
by examination in open Lodge, that he is proficient and well qualified m
the Master Mason degree. To demonstrate such proficienc~, a .Master
Mason shall only be required to recite from memory the obhgat1on of a
Master Mason, together with the explanation of the working tools and the
signs and modes of recognition of that degree."

-----·

WHEREAS, the floor work could be as simple as is done when someone
other than the Chaplain delivers the charge, such as by placing a smal I pedestal for
the working tools near the Marshal's place with the working tool lecture delivered
from the same place where the charges are delivered, or by placing the working
tools on the Master's pedestal with the working tool lecture de livered just south of
the Master's station.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Ritual be modified to
pennit any qualified Master Mason, not just the presiding officer, to deliver the
working tool lecture in any degree, in accordance with a procedure established by
the Grand Lecturer.

Changes to proficiencies have been discussed at our Annual
Communication s for many years. Resolutions have been filed and v~ted. on
annually. Studies have been made and reports delivered at each Commumcat10n.
Finally Section 26340 of the California Masonic Code was c~anged to the current
wording at the 1997 Communication. This change was done 1~ or~er to shorten the
memory requirement for the First and Second Degree profic1enc1es.

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

The addition of materials to these proficiencies is not consistent wit~ our
current purposes. However, reducing the content of the third Degree proficiency
is consistent with those purposes.

The proponents of this Resolution seek to allow any qualified Master
Mason, not just the presiding officer, to deliver the working tool lecture in any
degree in accordance with a procedure established by the Grand Lecturer.

.

The California Masonic Code states that the lectures are to be given in full
in accordance with the ritual.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

There is no limitation stated as to which individual presents the ritual, as
long as he is qualified.

Resolution No. 98-02
Allows Any Master Mason to Deliver

The current ritual presentation does not separate sections of the lectures.
Therefore this Resolution is not consistent with current Grand Lodge policy.

The Working Tool Lectures
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
The proponents of this Resolution seek to allo":' any qualified ~aster Mason, n~t
just the presiding officer, to deliv~r the workmg tool lecture m any degree, m
accordance with a procedure established by the Grand Lecturer.

l

282

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolution No. 98-03
Returns the Proficiencies to the Full Form
Requ ired Before 1997

satisfactory to the L~dge, th_e Master shall
direct the Secretary to
fo~ard_ to the candidate either by

The proponents of this Resolution seek to
repeal Resolution 96-05 and return the
proficiencies to the full form required befo
re October 1997.
To the Most Worshipful Gran d Lodge, F.&

A.M of California:
WHEREAS, Resolution 96-05 reduced
the proficiencies required of
Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts
to the o\iAigation, signs and modes of
recognition of the preceding degree; and
WHEREAS, the proponents of this resolution
believe that such change
was a mistake and thatt he changes made by
Resolution 96-05 should be repealed.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
that Section 26330 of the
California Masonic Code be repealed and
replaced with the following, thus
returning the Section to its form before the
adoption of Resolution 96-05:
§26330. RESTORATION OF PREVIOUSL

Y FORFEITED
FEES.
Any Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft
who failed to present
hims elf for advancement to the next high
er degree, and whose
fees and contributions shall have been forfe
ited for failure to
advance in accordance with the Jaws
of this Jurisdiction
previously in effect, shall have all such fees
and contributions
restored as if no action to forfeit these fees
had ever taken place.
He shall be restored automatically as an Ente
red Apprentice or
Fellow Craft, as the case may be, as ifthe
forfeiture had never
taken place, and shall be entitled to advancem
ent by presenting
hims elf to the Lodge and complying with
the provisions of
Section 26340 of this Code.
§26330. FORFEITURE OF FEES AND CON

TRIBUTIONS.
When a candidate does not present hims
elf qualified for the
Fellow Craft and Master Mason Degrees with
in a period of three
years from the date of his initiation, the Mas
ter shall appoint a
committee of two or more members of the
Lodge to investigate
and report back to the Master the reason why
the candidate has
not done so. If the candidate does not supp
ly an explanation

283

registered Jetter or certified
mail, with return receipt requested, depo
sited in the U.S. Post
Of~c~, ad~essed to him at his
last know n address, a notice
adv1smg him that unless he shall present
himself qualified for
advanceme~t, on or before a spec
ified date, at least 60 days in
adva_nce, his fees for the unconferred degr
ees and all of his
previous contributions will be declared forfe
ited.
On the date specified, the Master shall decla
re the fees forfeited
unless further time has been granted by vote
of the Lodge.
A candidate thus denied advancement shall
be considered only
~ an Entered ~pprentice or a Fello
w Craft of the Lodge with the
ngh_t of applymg for the remaining degree
or degrees, and again
~aym~ ~e fees and contribut
ions therefor, subject to
mvest1gat1on and election, the same as any
other applicant.

. BE IT FUR THE R RESOLVED that Sect
ion 26340 of the California
Masonic Code ~e amended to read as it did
before the adoption of Resolution No.
96-05, by making the changes as marked:
§26340 .•ADV AN CEMENT.
A L~ge shall advance an Entered Apprenti
ce or Fellow Craf t
to a h~gh~rde~ee ifhe has given satisfacto
ry evidence, by strict
exammati_on m. open Lodge, that he is entir
ely proficient and
well qualified m the degrees which he has
already taken. To
demonstrate such proficiency, an Entered
Apprentice or Fellow
Craft shall only be required to recite from mem
ory the obligation
of each degree, together with the signs and
modes of recognition
of eac~ degree. Any number of applicant
s may be examined at
~ meetm_g, but not more than five
shall be examined at any one
time .w1~ the questions being asked
in rotation. Such
exammat1on shall be held in front of the East
between the altar
and the Mas ter's station.
If for any reason there is an erroneous conf
erral of a degree or
degrees, the candidate retains the status reach
ed but must wait
one year and present an application for
a higher degree or
degrees.

)

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

284

General Purposes:
Report of the Committee on Policy and
to return the proficiencies to the
The proponents of this Resolution seek
.
full fonn required before Octo ber 1997
adopted Carry-over Resolution No.
In October of 1997 this Gra nd Lod ge
cy and General Purposes Committee:
96-05, with this report from you r Poli
for beco min g a Mason, the lengthy
"Wh en one thinks of all the reasons
be one. The signs and obligations,
proficiencies now required would not
of what a Masonic com mitm ent
on the othe r hand, represent the essence
is."
with the general purposes of Gra nd
That recommendation was consistent
hip retention.
Lod ge relating to improving members
th this year, including bringing back
Many Lodges have experienced grow
the
s because they were unable to commit
candidates who had languished for year
time to learning a long proficiency.
ge to shorten the proficiencies in the
It is the current policy of Gra nd Lod
tion.
interest of membership growth and reten
that policy.
This Resolution is not consistent with
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Res olut ion No. 98-04
the Obligation,
Limits Master Mason's Proficiency to
Signs and Modes ofRecognition
cy to
to limit the Master Mas on's proficien
The proponents of this Resolution seek
ee.
degr
gnition of the third
the obligation, signs and mod es of reco

F.& A.M of California:
To the Most Worshipful Gra nd Lodge,
ted by this Grand Lodge at the
WHEREAS, Resolution 96-05 as adop
ure in
d the portion of the Can dida te's Lect
1997 Annual Communication shortene
to
ired
requ
t Degrees which the Mason is
the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craf
mem oriz e before advancing; and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

285

. .
shor
larly
simi
degrees without
ee.
mng t e proficiency ID the third degr
NOW THE RE
FORE, BE IT RES OLV E D that a new Section 26345 be
'
t
added to the California Masonic Cod e o read as follows:

ical to sh
two
~EREAS, it is illog
h orten. the p~ofic1enc1es in the first
te .

§26345. PRO FIC IEN CY
DEGREE.

IN

THE

MA STE R

MA SON

.
·
To obtain a Certificate of Pr fitc1en
the Can dida te'sL ectu re
cy1D
o
D
on
Mas
ter
of the Mas
a. M?ster Mason must give
satisfactoryevidence by egre~,
on ID open Lod ge, th at he is
mat1
exam
•
.
the
in
ified
qual
fi
well
and
pro 1c1ent
Master Mason degree. To
demonstrate such proficienc
y, a Master Mason shall only be
required to recite from mem
ory the o bl"igat1·on of a Master
Mason, together with th .
e signs and mod es of recognition of that
degree.

Gen 1 p
Report ofthe Committee on Policy and
era urposes:
'
the
t
limi
to
seek
ts
onen
. . The prop
s proficiency to the
on
~as
ster
fMa
"t"
gn
reco
of
obhgat1on, signs and mod es
I ion o the Third Deg ree
.
.
Pass age of this Resolution will a ch.ieve cont1Duity among the required
d
e
thre
ihe
for
d I .
proficiencies
egrees of Mas onrv
c anfy the proficiency
.
·J an
W d
requirements for the Master and
for Grand Mas ter
true
"'.as
r ens. _As
Gre sham 'sRe com men dati onN o I th"a
e the admonition
inat
~lim
~~olut1on ":Ill
concerning solicitation. Oth er th~ th:~
t with Grand
isten
cons
is
n
' is Resolut10
Lodge policy and general purposes.
Resolution CARRIED-OVER.
Res olut ion No. 98-0S
'
Eliminates Requirement ofthe U aster Mason s Proficiency
for the Master and Wardens
. .
seek t
The proponents of this Resolution
o ehm1Date the requirement that the
h
ct
-ele
dens
War
and
lect
Master-e
iciency in
ave successfully completed their prof
the third degree.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

286

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
WHEREAS, it is presently required that the Junior Warden-elect of a
Lodge be qualified to give the work and lectures of the Entered Apprentice Degree,
that the Senior Warden-elect be qualified to give the work and lectures of the
Entered Apprentice Degree and the Fellow Craft Degree and that the Master-elect
be qualified to give the work and lectures of all three degrees;
WHEREAS, in order to qualify each of these officers must learn the
obligation, signs and modes of recognition of each of the respective degrees as a
part of this qualification;
WHEREAS, Masons are now required to memorize only those portions
of the Candidate's Lectures of the Entered Apprentice Degree and of the Fellow
Craft Degree consisting of the obligation, signs and modes of recognition of each
of these degrees;
WHEREAS, the need to learn the Candidate's Lecture of the Master
Mason Degree is an added burden on the Master-elect (as long as the "long form"
is still required); and
WHEREAS, it is unnecessaryto have a separate requirement for the First
and Second Degrees, and may be unnecessary ifthe requirement for memorizing
the Candidate's Lecture of the Master Mason Degree is shortened to consist of the
obligation, signs and modes ofrecognition of that degree.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 25070 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 25080 of the California
Masonic Code be amended as marked:
§25080. QUALIFICATIONS OF SENIOR WARDEN.
Before a Senior Warden-elect can be installed there shall be
presented to the Installing Officer the Certificate of the Grand
Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturer of the division in which
his Lodge is situated, or the Inspector the district in which his
Lodge is situated, certifying that:
A.

He has personally examined the Senior Warden-elect,
and that he is qualified to give the work and lectures of
the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees; and

B.

He has received a Certificate of Proficiency in the
Candidate's Lecture of the Master Mason Degree; and

C.

He is proficient in those portions of this Code that
relate to the government of a Lodge.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 25090 of the California
Masonic Code be amended as marked:
§25090. QUALIFICATIONS OF JUNIOR WARDEN.

§25070. QUALIFICATIONS OF MASTER.
Before a Master-elect can be installed there shall be presented to
the Installing Officer the Certificate of the Grand Lecturer,
Assistant Grand Lecturer of the division in which his Lodge is
situated, or the Inspector of the district in which his Lodge is
situated, certifying that:
A.

B.

c.

Before a Junior Warden-elect can be installed there shall be
presented to the Installing Officer the Certificate of the Grand
Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturer of the division in which
his Lodge is situated, or the Inspector of the district in which his
Lodge is situated, certifying that:
A.

He has personally examined the Master-elect and that
he is qualified to give the work and lectures in the three
degrees; and

He has personally examined such Junior Warden-elect,
and that he is qualified to give the work and lecture of
the Entered Apprentice Degree; and

B.

He has received a Certificate of Proficiency in the
Candidate's Lecture of the Master Mason Degree; and

He has received a Certificate of Proficiency in the
Candidate'sLectureofthe Master Mason Degree; and

c.

He is proficient in those portions of this Code that
relate to the government of a Lodge.

He is proficient in those portions of this Code that
relate to the government of a Lodge.

287

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

c'

The proponents of this Resolution seek to eliminate the requirement that
the Wardens-electand the Master-elect be qualified in the candidate lecture of the
Master Mason degree. Masons are now required to memorize only those portions
of the Candidates Lectures of the Entered Apprentice and the Fellow Craft Degree
consisting of the obligation, signs and modes of recognition of each of these
degrees.
This change therefore, would be consistent with Grand Lodge policy.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Resolution No. 98-06

Defines Which Past Masters May Participate
in the Past Master's Collective Vote
The proponents of this Resolution seek to define who can cast the collective Past
Masters' vote, and under what conditions it cannot be cast.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

§620.

289

VOTES.

The following shall each be entitled to one vote:
A.

Elective and appointive Grand Lodge Officers except
the Grand Tiler and the Assistant Grand Tiler;

B.

Past Grand Officers;

C.

Masters, Senior Wardens and Junior Wardens of
chartered Lodges; and

D.

Past Masters collectively of each chartered Lodge.
Only those Past Masters registered and present at an
Annual Communication shall be entitled to participate
in the collective vote. If there are an equal number of
such Past Masters on opposite sides of a question, the
collective vote shall not be cast on that question. If a
majority of such Past Masters favors a particular vote
on a question, the vote shall be so cast. In the event of
a contested election for a Grand Lodge office, the
collective vote shall be cast in accordance with the
wishes of a plurality of such Past Masters. If there is
no such plurality, the vote shall not be cast on that
ballot.

.

WHEREAS, there is confusion among the craft as to which Past Masters
are eligible to participate in the single vote accorded the Past Masters collectively
ofa Lodge;

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

WHEREAS, in the past some Past Masters not in attendance at an Annual
Communication have participated in voting on questions;

The proponents of this Resolution seek to define who can cast the
"collective" Past Masters' vote and under what conditions it may not be cast.

WHEREAS, in the past some Past Masters have participated in voting on
questions before those questions have been debated on Grand Lodge floor; and

Passage of this Resolution will establish guidelines to assure that all Past
Masters of a chartered Lodge in attendance at the Annual Communication will
have an equal opportunity to participate in casting the collective vote.

WHEREAS, in the past some Past Masters, registered and in attendance
at an Annual Communication, have not been allowed to participate in the Past
Master's collective vote.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 620 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:

This Resolution is consistent with Grand Lodge policy and general
purposes.
Resolution CARRIED-OVER.

290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Resolution No. 98-07

D.

Establishes a Legislation Information Committee

To consist of not less than six nor more than 15
members:
l.

The proponents of this Resolution seek to protect the interests of the Masonic
Fraternity through knowledge by establishing a Legislation Infonnation
Committee.

E.

To the Most Worshipfal Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
WHEREAS, the government is being reinvented by present day
politicians;
WHEREAS, members of the Masonic Fraternity have been instrumental
in crafting and signing the Declarationoflndependenceand the Constitutionofthe
United States of America; and
WHEREAS, the interests of the Masonic Fraternity may be in jeopardy.

H.

Finance;

2.

Trial Review;

3.

Credentials; and

4.

Masonic History.

To consist of five members each:
l.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 6020 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:

Grand Lodge Week Activities.

To consist of seven members each:
l.

G.

Charters.

To consist of not less than nine nor more than 18
members:
l.

F.

Memorial Service; and

2.

Masonic Service Bureaus;

3.

Legislation Infonnation.

To consist of not less than l 0 nor more than 30
members:

§6020. STANDING.
The members of standing committees shall be appointed by the
newly installed Grand Master at each Annual Communication
before the close thereof.

I.

.To consist of 15 members:

The following are standing committees:

J.

To consist of the Grand Lecturer and Assistant Grand
Lecturers:

A.

To consist of nine members each:
l.

Jurisprudence;

2.

Policy and General Purposes; and

3.

Investments.

B.

To consist of not less than 15 nor more than 50
members:

c.

To consist of not less than 15 nor more than 30
members:

l.

l.

Public Schools.

U.S. Constitution Observance.

291

l.
l.

l.

Masonic Education.
Temple Properties and Taxation.

Ritual.

The duties of such committees shall continue during the year and
shall cease at the close of the next succeeding Annual
Communication, except as to members of committees whose
tenns do not end with the close of that Annual Communication.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a new Section 6165 be added to the
California Masonic Code to read as follows:

r

292

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

freedom, values which are common both to that political movement and to
Masonry.

§6165. LEGISLATION INFORMATION.
The Committee on Legislation Information shall:

A.

Prepare a yearly updated statement of current Masonic
interests and submit the statement for publication in the
California Freemason;

B.

Prepare a yearly list of twelve or fewer state legislative
bills that relate to Masonic interests and a voting record
of members of the California legislature on each of
those bills, and make such lists available for purchase;

c.

Make available to Masons for purchase pamphlets on
matters of interest deemed significant by the
Committee; and

D.

Provide for publication in the California Freemason a
yearly list of reports, lists and pamphlets available from
the Committee.

293

. . The proponents have not provided any specifics as to how Masonry may
be m Jeopardy under our current system. Politicians have been reinventing
government ever since we began electing them to office. This is their job, and
whatever changes they create is then subject to the approval of their constituents.
.

Even if this action does not represent an actual involvment in politics, the
Distributing the
~otmg records oflegislators within the context of an issue that is identified as being
important to Masonry will work either to support or reject a particular elected
official. The proposed legislation is in conflict with Section 380 of our California
Masonic Code and is not consistent with either our policy or our purposes.
est~bhshmentof such a committee will create such a perception.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Resolution No. 98-08
Permits Stated Meetings in the Entered Apprentice Degree

Report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

The proponents of this Resolution seek to give each Lodge the option to hold its
Stated Meetings i? the Entered Apprentice Degree.

This Resolution proposes to establish a Legislation Information
Committee charged to identify current Masonic interests as well as legislative bills
which relate to those interests. The committee will also track the votes of
legislators on those bills. The proponents state that the interests of the Fraternity
"may be in jeopardy", apparently because current politicians are reinventing
government. They justify the creation of a committee which clearly has political
overtones by observing that Masons of the 18th Century were involved in political
activities, namely the creation of the United States of America.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:

WHEREAS, as an historic perspective, it is acknowledged that,
throughoutthe formative years of Freemasonry, Entered Apprentices made up the
bulk of the membership in our Fraternity, and Fellow Crafts and Master Masons
were rare;

Masonry has a fundamental tradition of non-involvement in politics.
Section 380 of the California Masonic Code states: "Grand Lodge and the
constituent Lodges shall not interfere or voice an opinion with regard to political
or religious matters." Even in the case of the public school system, an institution
Masonry is dedicated to preserving, Section 15060 of the California Masonic Code
expressly forbids us from taking any action to endorse, approve, or disapprove any
candidate or ballot issue.

WHEREAS, in the 1840's many Grand Lodges in the United States
revised their rules to require Lodges to hold Stated Meetings only in Lodges of
Master Masons, originally done to encourage all Masons to become Master
Masons;
WHEREAS, this change eventually resulted in the exclusion of Entered
Apprentices and Fellow Crafts from the core life of their Lodges, and
contemporary Masonic experience teaches us the importance of including Entered
Apprentices and Fellow Crafts whenever possible in the life and activities of the
Lodge; and

The proponents are historically correct in noting that Masons were
instrumental in the creation of the Declaration of Independence and the
Constitution. However, these men were not acting as official agents of Masonry
in this effort. Rather, they were individuals who were supporting principles of

'

J

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREA~, most Stated ~eetingsshould be open to Entered Apprentices
and Fellow Crafts, with only ballotmg for candidates and election of officers being
reserved for Master Masons.

7.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 16010 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:
§16010. CONDITIONS
FOR
CONDUCTING
BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED.

AND

A Lodge shall not be opened, nor shall any work be done or
business transacted, except by, or in the presence of, and under
the continual direction of the Master or the ranking Warden or
the Grand Master or his designated representative. All business,
except the examination of candidates in the lectures of the
Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft degrees, the conferring of
the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft degrees, and the
consideration of relief of a worthy Brother, shall be done in a
Lodge of Master Masons, unless the Lodge shall have exercised
the option as provided for elsewhere in this Code for conducting
such meetings in a Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons. No
Lodge shall transact any business with less than seven members
present except the conferring of degrees. The Tiler is present
while at his post in the Tiler's room.

Collections or appropriations for charity;
Conferring degrees;

C.

Ceremonial observances;

D.

Electing a representative to the Grand Lodge;

E.

Balloting for commissioners to try charges of
unmasonic conduct; or

F.

After dispensation from the Grand Master:

6.

Balloting for and conferring the degrees upon
an applicantwithoutrefe renceto a committee
or
'

Receiving and acting upon the application of
a rejected applicant within less than 12
months after the date of his rejection.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a new Section 16015 be added to the
California Masonic Code to read as follows:
§16015. OPTIONAL CONDUCT OF BUSINESS IN A
LODGE OF ENTERED APPRENTICE MASONS.
All business, except the examination of candidates in the
lectures of the Fellow Craft and Master Mason degrees and the
conferring of the Fellow Craft and Master Mason degrees, shall
be done in a Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons after the
Lodge has exercised the following option:
A.

At a Stated Meeting of the Lodge, a resolution shall be
introduced to the effect that all Stated Meetings of the
Lodge be conducted in a Lodge of Entered Apprentice
Masons.

B.

Following this meeting, written notice shall be given to
•each Lodge member setting forth the text of the
resolution and the date of the Stated Meeting at which
the vote is to be taken.

C.

At the Stated Meeting designated for the vote, the
resolution shall be adopted by a two-thirds vote of the
members present.

D.

The resolution shall have no effect until approved by
Grand Lodge or the Grand Master, and until approval
has been transmitted to the Grand Secretary. The
Grand Secretary shall then notify the Lodge that it shall
thereafter conduct all Stated Meetings in a Lodge of
Entered Apprentice Masons.

E.

The Secretary of the Lodge shall note in the minutes of
the Lodge the notice of the proposed resolution when
made. When transmitting a resolution for approval, the
Lodge Secretary shall forward a certificate, under seal,
showing that the law has been complied with and that
the resolution has received the required vote.

All business shall be transacted at a Stated Meeting, except the
following may also be conducted at a Special Meeting:
A.
B.

295

296

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

297

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

F.

If the Brethren of a Lodge thereafter desire to conduct
their Stated Meetings in a Lodge of Master Masons, the
Lodge shall follow the same procedure as described
above.

The proponents of this Resolution seek an option for a Lodge to hold a
Stated Meeting in the Entered Apprentice degree in order that a new member may
be involved as soon as he joins our fraternity.
This proposal has been before Grand Lodge many times and rejected each
time. Our current policy continues to be to encourage members to achieve Master
Mason status and take their rightful place among the brethren. Recent changes in
our proficiencies have shortened this process considerably.

While a Lodge is holding its Stated Meetings in a Lodge of
Entered Apprentice Masons, Entered Apprentices and Fellow
Crafts may speak and vote on all matters to come before the
Lodge with the following exceptions: only Master Masons may
ballot on candidates for the degrees of Masonry in that Lodge
and for the election of officers.

This Resolution is not consistent with current Grand Lodge policy or
general purposes.

When an Entered Apprentice is obligated in a Lodge that is
authorized to hold Stated Meetings in the Entered Apprentice
Degree, he shall commence paying dues starting with the month
following his Entered Apprentice Degree as if he were a Master
Mason.

Resolution No. 98-09

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 23090 of the California
Masonic Code be amended as marked:

Resolution CARRIED-OVER.

Permits Quarterly Stated Meetings

The proponents of this Resolution seek to give each Lodge the option to hold
quarterly Stated Meetings.
To the Most Wor:Jhipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:

FELLOW

WHEREAS, some Lodges do not have sufficient business to warrant a
business meeting every month;

Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts have only the right to sit
in the Lodge in which they received the degree or degrees when
open in a degree taken by them, and the right to advancement
therein after satisfactorily passing a strict examination in open
Lodge. They may, with the consent of the Master, visit another
Lodge working in a degree taken by them, if accompanied by a
Master Mason who has sat with them in open Lodge and
vouches for them.
They are not required to pay dues and are not entitled to vote or
speak in Lodge, except as provided for elsewhere in this Code.
They may be buried with Masonic honors upon the request of
their family. Neither they nor their widows or orphans are
entitled to relief from the Lodge. They shall not exercise any
control over Lodge funds for charity, or for other purposes,
except as provided for elsewhere in this Code.

WHEREAS, such Lodges could devote the time otherwise employed in
holding a Stated Meeting to some other useful Masonic endeavor, if our law
allowed them the option to meet less frequently than monthly;
WHEREAS, Lodges should meet in the monthsofFebruary,May, August
and November to receive semi-annual reports from the Lodge Treasurer and
Secretary and to hold the annual election of officers; and

§23090. ENTERED
CRAFTS.

APPRENTICES

AND

WHEREAS, this proposed change would be optional, and each Lodge
could choose whether to hold a Stated Meeting four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
ten, eleven or twelve times a year.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 16030 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

§ 16030. STA TED MEETINGS.
A Lodge shall hold a Stated Meeting for the transaction of its
regular business once in each calendarmonth of February, May,
August, November and such other calendar months as the Lodge
by its By-Laws may provide, except that Lodges whose Bylaws provide for meetings fixed by the phase of the moon shall
hold a Stated Meeting each lunar month in each lunar month
which includes February 15th, May 15th, August 15th and
November I 5th and in such other lunar months as the Lodge by
its By-Laws may provide.
A Lodge may be opened for a Stated Meeting prior to the time
fixed in its By-Laws. No business shall be transacted prior to
such time.
The Inspector may grant a dispensation to change the date of a
Stated Meeting, as provided for elsewhere in this Code.
In the event that the Master of a Lodge determines that
inclement weather, including ice, snow, and flood conditions,
existing on the day established in the By-Laws of the Lodge for
its Stated Meeting, makes it hazardous for members of the
Lodge to attend the meeting, he may, with the consent of the
Inspector of the District to which the Lodge is assigned,
postpone the Stated Meeting to the same day of the week next
following the week scheduled for the Stated Meeting. Upon
such postponing, the Master shall notify, to the extent possible,
all members of the Lodge residing within 50 miles of the
meeting place of the Lodge.
Should a Stated Meeting be postponed, the business transacted
at the postponed Stated Meeting shall be limited to the reading
of the minutes of the last Stated and subsequent Special
Meetings, action thereon, payment of the invoices of the Lodge,
and such other business of an emergent nature as determined by
the Master to require immediate consideration. No other new
business shall be considered.

ARTICLE III

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Article III of Section I 9040 of the
California Masonic Code be amended as marked:

299

MEETINGS OF THE LODGES
Section 1. The stated meetings of this Lodge shall be held on
in each month the months of February, May,
the
August and November and the months of
' at _ _o ' c Ioc k _.m., except as follows. During the
the Stated Meeting shall be
months of
o'clock_.m. In any month when the regular
held ~t
legal holidays, or
or
me~tmg date shall fall on
durm~ the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, the Stated
month
of
Meetmg shall be held on the
by
shall
Lodge
this
observance,
religious
a
to
due
If,
at-.·~·
in
either
held
Meeting,
Stated
a
at
Lodge
the
of
vote
a maJonty
in
month
the
preceding
immediately
the.second or third month
meeting
the
change
occurs,
wh1c~ such religious ob~ervance
date, m the manner provided for elsewhere in this Code such
change of meeting date need not be approved by Grand Lodge
or the Grand Master. Notice thereof shall be given to the Grand
Masterand the members of the Lodge not less than three weeks
before the meeting date fixed in the By-Laws. This change of
date shall not be an amendment to these By-Laws.

u.

• Requires appropriate revision for Lunar Lodges.
Section 2. Special meetings may be called from time to time as
'
the Lodge or the presiding officer may direct.
Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

The proponents of ~is R~solution seek to allow Lodges the option of
.
holdmg quarterly Stated Meetmgs m pre-determined designated months.
This Resolution contains some potential technical problems:

I.

It ~ill disrupt a Lodge's system of paying bills on a monthly
basis.

2.

It specifies four particular months, which might be inconvenient
for son:ie Lodg~s, requiring the need for dispensations and
further mtroduct1on of additional Resolutions.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

300

3.

the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge for membership. If a class
of persons is designated, the first person from the class to
~ec~iv_e ~he Entered Apprentice Degree in a Lodge under the
JUnsdiction. of this Grand Lodge shall be entitled to apply the
$~00 donation toward the fees and contributions required of
him.

Balloting on a new candidate will require a much longer time, up
to nine months.

However, more importantly, this Resolution will discourage Lodges from
meeting on a monthly basis. In addition to these technical problems, Grand Lodge
has had a long standing policy that "business" should not be the sole activity at
a
Stated Meeting, but that the meeting should include dinners, socialization,
fellowship and Masonic education. It is not consistent with Grand Lodge policy
to discourage these activities.

If the required fees and contributions exceed the sum of $200
the applicant shall pay the balance. If the required fees and
contributions are less than the sum of $200 at the time that the
applicant applies for the degrees, the difference shall be
transferred by the sponsoring Lodge to the Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund once the applicant has been initiated. If the
applicant petitions a Lodge under the jurisdiction of this Grand
Lodge other than the sponsoring Lodge, the sponsoring Lodge
shall make the donation available to the petitioned Lodge upon
request and b~fore a vote is taken on the application. (Should
there later arise an event which would otherwise require the
refund of the f~es and contributions, the petitioned Lodge shall
make the requrred refund to the sponsoring Lodge.)
All contributions to the Fund shall be nonrefundable and
nontransferable.
All interest earned on the Masonic
Members.hip Trust Fund shall be transferred no less often than
annu~lly to the_ ~as~nic Homes Endowment Fund. Any unused
donat10n remammg m the fund sixty-five years after its addition,
any unused donation remaining in the Fund after the death of the
person named to use it and any unused donation remaining in the
Fund five years after rejection of an application for the degrees
of the person named to use it shall be transferred to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Resolut ion No. 98-10
Withdrawn

Resolution No. 98-11
Permits Lodges to Establish a Fund to Pay Application Fees
The proponents of this Resolution seek to establish a fund which will pay up
to
$200 of the application fees and contributions required when a named person
applies for the degrees.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, a Mason or his family may wish to endow the required fees
and contributions should a particular person or group of persons apply for the
degrees of Masonry; and
WHEREAS, our law does not now provide for any such fund.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that a new Section 26115 be
added to the California Masonic Code to read as marked:

§26115. MASONIC MEMBERSHIP TRUST FUND.
A Lodge may adopt a standing resolution providing for a
Masonic Membership Trust Fund. Donations to the Fund shall
be in the amount of $200 and shall name the person or class of
persons who may apply the $200 donation toward the fees and
contributionsrequired should he later petition any Lodge under

301

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

fee.

This Resolution proposes that a fund be established to pay an applicants'

.
Our current policy requires a candidate to pay his own application fees.
This not only_ esta~~ishesa willingness on his part to partake in our mysteries, but
also shows his abihty to support himself and assist others.

302

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

bilitywould not be consistentwith
To relieve the candidate of this responsi
hennore, this Resolution would create
our curr ent policy or purposes. Furt
Lodges and Grand Lodge.
significant accounting burdens for the
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Resolution No. 98-12
Solicitation
Repeals the Unwritten Law Regarding

The proponents of this Resolution seek
members.

to allow solicitation of prospective

F.& A.M of California:
To the Most Worshipful Gra nd Lodge,
declining;
WHEREAS, membership in Masonry is
n a willingness to change by
WHEREAS, Grand Lodge has show
candidate proficiency;
lessening the memory wor k required for
n does everything except come
WHEREAS, the Friend to Friend campaig
ay and actually exerts more pressure than
right out and ask someone to join anyw
a personal invitation;
e with the general public who
WHEREAS, we should be allowed to shar
we are and what we do;
a family member or friend to
WHEREAS, we should be allowed to ask
rienced through the Blue Lodge;
share in the personal growth we have expe
"[b ]e faithful .. . by refusing to
WHEREAS, all Brothers are charged to
g
in our privileges, unless you have stron
reco mme nd anyone to a participation
our
on
r
hono
ct
ity, he will ultimately refle
reasons to believe that, by a similar fidel
ancient institution"; and
"of his own free will and accord"
WHEREAS, membership would still be
because he can always JUST SAY NO.
that all references in our Ritual
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
be removed.
to the unwritten law against solicitation
Section23035 be added to the
BE ITF URT HER RES OLV EDt hata new
ed:
California Masonic Code to read as mark
§23035. SOLICITATION FOR MEMBER

SHIP.

membership within the
Any Mason may solicit a person for
.
bounds of due propriety

303

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to allow solicitationofp_ro~pec~i~e
members, by deleting all references to solicitation in our ritual and cod1fymg 1t ~n
a new Section 23035. The Ritual for the Third Degree has a reference to free will
and accord. There are other references to asking the candidate if he has been
solicited in our ritual.
Our California Masonic Code Section 220, paragraph D, recognizes and
supports the Ancient Landmarks as an established policy of th~s G.rand Lodge. I_n
1927, Alfred Mackey distinctly enumerated those Landmarks m his Encycl~ped1a
of Freemasonry. To be noted is the fact that the 25 Landmarks do not contam any
reference to "Free Will and Accord" or "Solicitation". The current Grand Lodge
booklet on Constitution and By-Laws, given to Master Masons, contains the 25
Landmarks which similarly do not include the word "Solicitation" or the phrase
"Free Will ,and Accord". However, Brother Mackey did state, under the section
"Free Will and Accord" that: "it is wholly uncongenial with the spirit of our Order
to persuade anyone to become a Mason." "This is a settled Landmark of the

Resolution No. 98-13

Order."
The Grand Lodge pamphlet on Masonic Law and Custom, 1992, page 13,
does refer to "Free Will and Accord". The Grand Lodge pamphlet "12 Questions
on Freemasonry" indicates in number IV, that a candidate is not to be solicited. In
1993, Grand Master Stephen Doan, in his Decision No. 2, differentiated ~~~en
solicitation and providing information. The decision states, in part, that sohc1tat1on
is unacceptable to the Masonic Fraternity.
Upon reading the available sources, notwi~standing the absen~e of any
reference to solicitation in the Landmarks, the existence of the term m Grand
Lodge publications would indicate that it is the policy of this Gran~ Lodge not to
allow solicitation. Therefore, this Resolution is not consistent with our Grand
Lodge policies and general purposes.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

305

Requires Appointment ofa Committee to Study the
Allocation of Resources Between Teaching of
Ritual and Other Aspects of Masonic Education
The proponents of this Resolution seek to have the Grand Master appoint a
committee to study the allocation of volunteer time and other resources of the
fraternity between the teaching of the Ritual and other aspects of Masonic
education.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
WHEREAS, Grand Orator Eugene N. Dueprey's 1895 oration challenged
the Brethren to proudly discourse on Freemasonry's mission as an instrument of
friendship, benevolence and compassion toward others; as a model for man's plans,
purposes, hopes and strivings to be better; and as a platform to strengthen and
express a belief and devotion to God;
WHEREAS, Delmar D. Darrah in an article published by The Masonic
Book Club of the Grand Lodge of Illinois in 1915 stated: "Every effort is made to
post a candidate in the several lectures appertaining to the degrees but the moment
he signs the by-laws, the Lodge seems to forget its obligation and leaves him to
secure necessary Masonic Information the best way he can. It is no wonder that
many Masons lose their interest in the fraternity which might have been retained
had proper instruction been given them. The greatest need of the present Masonic
period is definite information upon Masonic subjects and the relationship which
Masons bear to the fraternity."
WHEREAS, in an Article titled "Worthy and Well Qualified", published
in the Alberta Grand Lodge Bulletin of 1936, explained the problem in this
manner: "Freemasonry may be, as is all too often the case, at fault in failing to
properly instruct its neophytes, but if the material with which the teachers must
work is missing, the chances of making Masons rather than Lodge members is
small."
WHEREAS, in the Proceedings of the Fourth Joint Meeting of the
California Research Lodges under the auspices of the Grand Lodge Masonic
Education Committee held June 26, 1965 appears an article by V. W. Donald G.
Campbell, Past Grand Lecturer, Titled "Masonic Education for the Candidate",
stating: "The subject of Candidate Education has been a major concern to
California Masonry for many years. In fact the early proceedings of Grand Lodge

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

show that one of the problems of the jurisdiction was not only ritual, but also the
imparting of Masonic Knowledge.
WHEREAS, in the 1989 Spring Issue of the California Freemason, Ralph
H. Head, Editor, published an article titled "Applied Masonry", states: "In the new
era Masonry should inspire all Masons to live a Masonic life. How a Mason lives
outside the Lodge is much more important than what he does in it. Taking another
Degree, another path, learning a new sign do not necessarily evidence forward
steps in Masonic living. We need not change our rituals. What we need is a
change in the understanding of them. We need not change precepts or doctrines
or duties. What we need is to recognize their significance and how to apply them
in practical and useful ways in our daily lives."
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand Master appoint
a Special Committee to study problems arising from the existing inequities in the
allotment of personnel, time and finances to the teaching of Masonic Ritual,
Masonic Communication, Masonic Education, Masonic Information and Masonic
Application to the officers and members of this Grand Lodge in order that they
may obtain the knowledge required that they can practice out of the Lodge that
which they have been taught in it.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this Special Committee report its
findings to the Grand Master in sufficient time for him to review and study the
report and to submit his recommendations and/or decisions on the subject matter
of the report at the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

307

This deficiency in ongoing Masonic education has been recognized at the
Grand Lodge level for several years. It has been discussed in the Executive
Committee and the Masonic Renewal Committee, and, since three of the five
proponents are members of the Masonic Education Committee, it is likely that that
topic has arisen there as well.
Section 6160 of our California Masonic Code charges this latter
committee to promote Masonic education. Hence, the mechanism to launch such
a study is already in place, as it would fall within the purview of that committee.
It is contrary to Grand Lodge policy and general purposes to promote duplication
of effort.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Resolution No. 98-14
Establishes a Ladies Service Pin Designed by the
Grand Lodge Committee on Awards and Recognition
The proponents of this Resolution seek to establish a ladies service pin for women
who have performed admirable service to the craft or its charities.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M ofCalifornia:

Report ofthe Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this Resolution note that a numberofMasonic scholars
believe that the craft spends more time emphasizing rote memorization than in
teaching the meaning of our Fraternity. It is true that an institutional emphasis on
memorization has been present, as is typified by our candidates' and officers'
coaching programs. On the other hand, education relating to the history, the
meaning and, perhaps most importantly, the relevance of Masonry has received
much less formal support. In fact, while each Lodge has designated coaches and
Inspectors, the only constituted individuals for Masonic Education are the members
of a single Grand Lodge committee.
The proponents wish to establish a special committee to study the
problems which this potential inequity has created, and to report back to the Grand
Master in time for recommendations to be drafted for the next Annual
Communication. The Finance Committee estimated that this will cost Grand
Lodge about $5,000.

WHEREAS, it would be appropriate to establish an award to honor ladies
for their service to the fraternity as the Hiram Award honors men who have served
the fraternity; and
WHEREAS, such award could be presented to the wife ofa Hiram Award
recipient.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand Lodge adopt
and make available for purchase by the constituent Lodges of this jurisdiction a
Ladies Service Pin and Certificate which shall hereafter be designed by the Grand
Lodge Committee on Awards and Recognition.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the pin and certificate may be
presented to any lady selected by the Lodge.

308

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ral Purposes:
Repo rt ofthe Committee on Policy and Gene
establish a ladies service pin for
The proponents of this Resolution seek to
ce to the Craft or its charities.
wom en who have perfo nned adm irabl e servi
wom en have been presented
Proposals to establish such recognition for
r occasions. In 1979, a
othe
two
least
for Gran d Lodge consideration on at
Lodge approval for a pin the design of
Resolution was presented, seek ing Grand
and the letter "G'', for presentation to
which inclu ded the Square and Com pass
all ladies of families with Masonic
"wiv es, wido ws of Master Masons, and
Committee and the Policy and General
conn ectio ns". Both the Jurisprudence
vote, and the Resolution was "No t
Purposes Committee reco mme nded a "no"
of the lack of clarity as to who would
Adopted". The reasons given were because
because of our long standing policy of
be eligible to receive the pin, and secondly
by anyone othe r than Masons. In 1997,
prev entin g use of our Masonic emb lem
ladies service pin for women who have
Reso lutio n 97-15 soug ht to establish "a
its charities". A description of the pin
perfo nned admirable service to the craft or
did not propose to use the Square and
was inclu ded in the Resolution but it
Gene ral Purposes Committee reported
Com pass or the letter "G". The Policy and
policy on this matter." That Resolution
that, "cur rentl y there is no Grand Lodg e
was not adopted.
s service pin has now been
The fact that this proposal to establish a ladie
not been adop ted has established Grand
considered twic e by this Grand Lodg e and
Lodg e policy on the subject.
This Resolution is not consistent with curre

nt Gran d Lodge policy.

Resolution NOT ADO PTE D.
Reso lutio n No. 98-15
Certificate
Establishes Ladies Service Awa rd Pin and
d Lodg e
Sele cted from Designs Pres ente d at Gran
to establish a Ladies Service Award Pin
The prop onen ts of this Resolution seek
onne d adm irabl e service to the craft.
and Certificate for wom en who have perf

309

A.M of California:
To the Most Worshipful Gran d Lodge, F.&
have give n years of
WH~REAS, the Hiram Award honors Brot hers who
.
d and certificate to
awar
ce
lish a servi
service to the1~ Lodges, and we should estab
arly;
simil
hono r our ladies who have perfo rmed
ld be mad e available to all
. WHE REA S, this pin and certificate shou
;
Lodg es m the State of California
ted at the 1998 Ann ual
~-EREAS, should this resolution be adop
tyto subm it its version
rtuni
oppo
Commu~1cat1on,eac.h Lodge should be given the
at the J999 Annual
ay
displ
be put on
of the P~ ~d cert1fic~te, which shall
process;
tion
selec
the
in
choice
Commumcation, affordmg each Lodge a
ficates submitted and
WH~REAS, there coul d be several pins and certi
999, accompanied by
J
1,
June
than
later
each such design ~hould be submitted no
num ber and an itemized cost list for
the man ufac turer snam e, address, telephone
each of the items;
Grand Lodge to produce and
WHEREAS, there wou ld be no cost to
and as there coul d be several
es,
s~pply pins a.nd certificates to the constituent Lodg
should only be required for
vote
rity
pms ~d certificates submitted, a simple majo
selection; and
ould be designed to go with one
WHEREAS, as the pins and certificatessh
set.
a
as
on
d
another, they should be vote
the Grand Lodg e adop t
NO~, 11-IEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that of this jurisdiction a
constituent Lodges
and _make a~a1la~le for purc hase by the
te.
ifica
Cert
Ladies Service Pm and
pin and certificate be prepared
BE _IT FUR THE R RES OLV ED that sue h
le majority vote from amo ng the
fro~ the des~gn selected by Gran d Lodge by simp
consideration at the 1999 Annual
designs ~h1~h may be presented for
Commumcation.
pin and certificate may be
BE IT FUR THE R RESOLVED that the
e.
presented to any lady selected by the Lodg
ral Purposes:
Report of the Committee on Policy and Gene
to establish a Ladies Service
The proponents of this Resolution seek
nned admirable service to the
perfo
have
Award Pin and Certificate for women who
craft.
Resolution No. 98-14 which we
This proposal is substantiallythe same as
onents provide a period of
prop
the
~ave just considered. However, in this one,
Grand Lodge as to the desig n, cost, etc.
time for the Lodges to subm it proposals to

J
310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

e to vote at the 1999 Annual
of the pin and certificate; and for Grand Lodg
d Lodge woul d then make the
Communication upon the designs submitted. Gran
by the constituent Lodges. The
pin and certificate selected available for purchase
selected by the Lodge.
pin and certificate could be awarded to any lady
sals to provide a pin to
As we reported on Resolution No. 98-14, propo
Craft and/o r its charities were
recognize and hono r women for service to the
They were not adopted on each
previ ously submitted in 1979 and in 1997.
occasion.
d Lodge policy.
This Resolution is not consistent with current Gran
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.
Reso lution No. 98-16
Declared Out ofOrder
Reso lutio n No. 98-17
Lodge
Separates Lodge Dues Between the Porti on/or the
and the Porti on/or the per Capita Assessment
Lodg e dues between the portion
The propo nents ofthi s Resolution seek to separate
e so that Lodge dues need not be
for the Lodg e and the portion for Grand Lodg
assessment.
increased solely to pay an increase in the per capita

of California:
To the Most Worshipful Gran d Lodge, F.& A.M
es and Grand Lodge,
WHEREAS, costs are continually rising for Lodg
gh higher per capita
throu
es
Lodg
and Grand Lodge passes its increased costs to the
assessments;
l increase in per capita
WHEREAS, each Lodg e must absorb this annua
thereby leaving fewer
bers,
mem
assessment out of the annual dues paid by the
and
ams;
progr
and
dollars available for Lodge operating expenses
raise its dues in order to
WHEREAS, over time, the Lodge must vote to
as well as the added burden of
keep up with increases in its own expenses,
objec t to an increase in dues
times
at
increased per capita assessment, and members
going.
are
rs
because they do not know where their dues dolla

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

le IX of the Unifo rm
NOW, THEREFORE, BE_ IT RESO LVED that Artic
Masonic Cod b
ornia
Calif
the
of
19040
on
Code of By-Laws of Lodges, Secti
e, e
amended as marked:
ARTICLE IX
DUES
e shall be the
Section 1. The dues of each mem ber of this Lodg
a sums as
capit
per
sum of(a) $_ _ per annum and (b) such
d on the
carrie
n
Gran d Lodge has levied on each Master Maso
relate
dues
Lodg e's rolls as ofJun e 30 of the year to which such
'
ry.
payable in advance on the first day of Janua
at the
~ection 2. No member, who shall be in arrears for dues
to be
le
eligib
be
or
time of an election shall be permitted to vote,
apply
not
shall
elected or hold any office. Such disqualification
any time within
to amember~hose dues have been remitted at
one year previous to an election.
ayment of
Section 3. Should any mem ber suspended for non-p
or have
dues
his
dues neglect for the period of two years to pay
good
to
ed
the s~me remitt~d by his Lodge, he may be restor
.
ances
standmg as provided for by the Ordin
withdraw from
Secti on4. Any mem ber in good standing may
Lodge to that
the
ing
membership by paying his dues and notify
ing.
effect at a Stated Meet
. BE IT FUR THE R RESO LVED that Section
Masonic Code be amended as marked:

2701 0 of the California

§27010. MINIMUM.
per
n
Maso
er
Mast
cap1~a sums as Gran d Lodge has levied on each
h
whic
to
year
earne d on the Lodg e's rolls as of June 30 of the
first day of the
such dues relate. D~es shall commence with the
Mast er Mason
month next followmg the conferring of the
.
Degree or as provided for elsewhere in this Code

Th~ minimum annual dues are the sum of $12 plus such

27020 of the California
. BE IT FUR THER RESOLVED that Section
ed:
mark
Masonic Code be amended as

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

§27020. LIFE MEMBERSHIP.
A Lodge may adopt a standing resolution providing for a system
of life membership, which shall forever exempt a member from
the payment of dues therein. The resolution or any amendment
shall not be acted on at the Stated Meeting at which it is
introduced, or until notice in writing has been forwarded by mail
to every member of the Lodge. It must provide that life
membership shall be granted upon payment of a sum of money
named therein, which sum shall in case the annual dues are $12
be not less than $250 and the minimum amount be
proportionately greater as the dues are greater; or, in the
alternative, it may provide for the granting of such a life
membership upon payment of a sum of money equal to the
annual dues of the Lodge multiplied by the factor indicated
opposite the member's age in the following schedule:

It is the policy for Grand Lodge to make work as easy as possible for the
constituent Lodges. This objective will be accomplished in one respect, in that
Lodges will no longer have to change their dues simply to account for the changes
in the per capita assessment.

Under age 49, 21 times annual dues;
50 to 54 inclusive, 19 times annual dues;
55 to 59 inclusive, 17 times annual dues;
60 to 64 inclusive, 14 times annual dues;
65 and over, 11 times annual dues;
shall then become an executed contract requiring the consent of
the Lodge and the life member to rescind it. The resolution shall
take effect only upon its approval by the Grand Master.
When the annual dues of the Lodge are increased, the Lodge's
standing life membership resolution shall be deemed to have
been amended without further action of the Lodge to increase
the dollar amounts required for a life membership by the same
percentage that the Lodge dues have been increased.
For purposes of this Section 27020, the Lodge's "annual dues"
shall mean the rate of dues in effect on the date that the life
membership is purchased.
Report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

This Resolution proposes to change a Lodge's dues notice to reflect the
component due to the Grand Lodge per capita assessment.

1
I~

313

This Resolution will more clearly identify the amount of the per capita to
each Mason, in particular those who are not present when this figure is announced
to his Lodge at a Stated Meeting. This is consistent with the Grand Lodge policy
of having an open financial policy for the membership.
The Resolution will create some other technical, albeit usually short term,
problems for the Lodges. It is unclear to this committee whether or not Lodges
will have to amend their By-Laws on a one-time basis to establish a new annual
dues figure. Lodges will not be able to mail the next years' dues statements until
after the close of Grand Lodge every year. This Resolution may also impact the
life membership plan. Lodges which are financially able to charge only $12/year
because they can supplement the difference will be compelled to charge their
members $12 plus the Grand Lodge per capita. As it is not the policy of Grand
Lodge to create confusion and/or extra work, the creation of such short-term
problems is inconsistent with Grand Lodge policy.
Report of the Committee on Finance:

The Finance Committee was concerned about the impact on existing life
memberships should this Resolution pass. We were assured by both the
Jurisprudence Committee and the proponents of this Resolution that the existing
life membership contract, which exempts the life member from all dues, including
per capita tax, will not be changed.
This report is for clarification purposes only as the Resolution has no
financial effect on the Grand Lodge. Therefore, the Finance Committee has no
recommendation.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

314

PROCEEDING S OF THE

t

...
APPEN DIXJ
•

t

•

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

317

REPO RT OF THE TRUS TEES OF THE
MASO NIC HOME S OF CALIF ORNI A
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:

The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, a charita
ble
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Califor
nia, respectfully
presents its I 06th Annual Report of the Masonic Homes of Califor
nia for the fisca I
year July I, 1997 through June 30, 1998.

Organization of the Board
The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco, California on Octobe
r 15,
1997, for the purpose of organization. The election of Melville
H. Nahin (520),
Deputy Grand Master; Alvin J. Weis (480), Senior Grand Warde
n; and David C.
Decker (419) Junior Grand Warden, was fonnally reported
to the Board and
pursuantto the provisions of the California Masonic Code, they
became members
of the Board, ex-officio. In addition to the Grand Lodge Officer
s, the Board was
composed of the following Trustees for tenns as of the close
of the Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge in the years indicated:
1998

1999

2000

·warre n T. Buschmann (278)
Stanley M. Cazneaux (191,295)
Robert D. Peters (551)
Thomas F. Joy (290)
Ernest A. Pooleon (368)
Frederick L. Sorsabal (26)
Victor Howard (295)
Charles H. Alexander ( 111)
David R. Doan (369)

Melville H. Nahin (520), Alvin J. Weis (480), and David
C. Decker (419)
respectively, Deputy Grand Master, and Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, are the
remaining three Trustees.
Stanley M. Cazneaux, PGM, was elected President of the Board
and
Warren T. Buschmann, was elected Vice-President; and by virtue
of their offices
as Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary, Thomas C. Holm
(428) was elected
Treasurer, and John L. Cooper III (467) was elected Secretary.

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Organization of Staff
Brother Kelly Wiest ( 167), served his fifth year as Administratorat Union
City.
Brother Dale Ankney (428), served his third year as Administrator at
Covina.
Kira Reginato is the Homes Representative at the office in San Francis~o
and is Director of Outreach Services, with the assistance of Darren Guentert 111
Southern California.
Jeff Eichner is Director of Charitable Giving.

Board Meetings
Meetings of the Trustees are usually held on the first Wednesday of the
month, alternating between the Union City and Covina Homes.
The administrators and committee chairmen of the Board of Trustees
contribute in the preparation of this Annual Report as follows:

Admissions Committee
by Victor HrJward, Ph.D., and Ernest A. Poo/eon, Co-Chairmen
The Admissions Review Program of the Board is a carefully developed
analysis and evaluation process that continues to be improved and refined to meet
the evolving needs of our Applicants, as well as the Homes Staff, and the Board
itself.
Over the past several years, experience has confirmed the value of the
required overnight visit to one of the facilities by all applicants in order that
Administrators and Medical Staff can evaluate them and assist in determining the
most appropriate placement. (The facility visited is not an indication of where the
most appropriate placement might be.) A report on this overnight visit is then
added to the information sent to committee members.
Prior to the regular Board Meeting on the first Wednesday of each month,
the six Trustees who form the Admissions Committee (three from the North and
three from the South) have each received and carefully studied the applications for
Masonic assistance. Each Trustee reviews and evaluates the applications and
accompanying data, and then submits his comments and votes to the two cochairmen, who discuss the results of the vote by phone, and then present the results
at meetings of the entire committee, at which time Homes Staff Representatives
and Administrators attend and assist in the discussion. The committee's
recommendations are then presented to the full Board for final confirmation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

The number of applications handled by the committee for couples,
individuals and children varies from month to month. This past year the high was
nine applications handled in one month for seniors, and three applications in one
month for children.
The ongoing reconstruction at the Union City facility continued to require
close control of admissions. However, as room became available in the Assisted
Living-Ambulatorysection, some admissions were accepted for this level of care.
And as space permitted, a number of couples were admitted where one of the
members of the couple required Assisted Living Non-ambulatory or Skilled
Nursing level of care while the other member was capable of living at the
Independent Living level of care.
During this past year the adult facility at Covina continued its expansion
of Assisted Living services. The number of Assisted Living beds was doubled, and
as a result, the need to transfer residents to facilities that offer higher levels of care
was largely diminished.
Building upon its success in providing Assisted Living care, the Covina
facility sought, and was granted, a waiver by the State of California to provide
hospice care to its terminally ill residents. This allowed Covina's residents a
palliative care option that previously was only available through placement in a
skilled nursing setting. Several residents availed themselves of this new care
option during the past year and the families of these residents were deeply
appreciative oftl\e services provided.
The Child Care Program at Covina continued to develop, and the
introduction of a limited number of non-Masonic children has proven to be of
benefit to all concerned. Careful screening by the Home's Child Care staff and
consulting psychologists has resulted in the admission of children who have
benefitted from our program of care, while developing mutually positive
relationships with our Masonic children.
The co-chairmen gratefully acknowledge the hard work and dedication of
the Trustees who are on the Admissions Committee. These members are David C.
Decker, Charles H. Alexander, Robert D. Peters, and Thomas F. Joy. We also
acknowledge the assistance and support of our two Administrators, Kelly Wiest
and Dale Ankney, and their staff.

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Centennial Celebration Committee
by Jeff H. Eichner, Jr., Chairman
The Centennial Celebration Committee is charged with planning events
and activities during 1998 to celebrate the l 00-year history of the Masonic Homes.
The committee consists of Stanley M. Cazneaux, Alvin J. Weis, Kelly Wiest, Dale
Ankney, and Jeff H. Eichner, Jr.
After being formed in late 1995, the committee quickly set the theme for
the centennial, "Buildinga Future Upon a Century of Caring". Numerous activities
and events were carried out during the first half of the year that not only celebrated
the first l 00 years of the Masonic Homes of California, but strengthened rapport
and increased awareness of the Homes' facilities, services, and programs with
California Freemasons, their families and the general public.
One of the largest events of the year was the 68th Annual Conference of
the Masonic Homes Executives' Association of North America (MHEANA), that
was hosted in June 1998 by the Masonic Homes of California. Nearly 200
representatives from Masonic and Eastern Star Homes from all over the United
States attended the 4-day conference and toured the Union City Home.
A highlight of the year was the issuance of a special publication

com~e~ora~g ~e.centennial of your Masonic Homes of California. The 32-page
pubhcat1on, Butldmg A Future Upon A Century Of Caring/Masonic Homes of
California: 1898-1998",also the theme ofour centennial year, reflected in photos
and _text the loving environment provided to our residents at Union City and
Co~ma a~ the ~asonic Homes of California looks to another century of caring.
This special ed1t1on was sent to every California Mason and to other Grand Lodge
jurisdictions.
Titroughout the year the Homes at Union City and Covina hosted many
events to commemorate the Homes' centennial. The year started out with the
Family ofFreemasonry"Fun on Wheels" float in the Tournament of Roses Parade
that featu~ed children from Covina and "The Old Woman in the Shoe", a 99 years~
young Mildred Burke, also a resident of the Covina Home. Another centennial
event was a "Run for Life" to raise funds for charity and the Masonic Home at
Covina. Brother Tom Jones, a resident of the Covina Home from 1976 to 1980
ran the length of California from the Oregon border to the Mexican border (se;
California Freemason, Spring 1998 Edition).
Planning is proceeding to rededicate the Home at Union City on Saturday,
October l 0, 1998.
The Centennial Celebration Committee acknowledges with sincere
appreciation the support provided by Gloria Cazneaux and Kim Hegg in making
the MHEANA Conference a success.

321

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Financial Planning and Budget Committee
by Frederick L. Sorsaba/, Chairman
The Budget and Finance Committee of the Masonic Homes of California,
Board of Trustees, includes the Chairman, Right Worshipful Alvin J. Weis and
Right Worshipful David C. Decker. The work of the committee could not be
completed without the excellent cooperation by the Administrators of both Homes
and the outstanding advice and counsel of our Chief Financial Officer, Brother
Douglas A. Scott. Without the time and energy Brother Scott has given to this
committee, it could not conclude the budget process in a timely and effective
manner. The committee wishes to express our sincere appreciation to Brother
Scott for his support.
The committee also acknowledges the participation of the Board of
Trustees in the budget process; the support and counsel provided by the Most
Worshipful Stanley M. Cazneaux, President of the Masonic Homes of California's
Board of Trustees, and the wise counsel of the Very Worshipful Thomas C. Holm,
Grand Treasurer.
The committee also acknowledges the outstanding work of the two
Administrators and the Grand Secretary for implementing cost controls at each of
the locations. The following is a Budget summary:

.

1997/98 Budget

1997/98 Actual

Union City

15,058,470

14,484,529

Covina

3,908,941

3,799,063

San Francisco

2,556,244

3,387,870

Location

NRA & Outplacement
Total Expenses

823,460

870,135

22,347,115

22,041,462

At its meeting in May, 1998, the Board of Trustees approved an operation
budget as follows:

322
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Location
Union City
Covina
San Francisco
NRA & Outplacement
Total Expenditures

1997/98
Approved
Budget

1998/99
Approved
Budget

Percentage
Change

15,058,470

15,627,714

3,908,941

3.8%

4,649,079

2,556,244

18.9%

3,427,607

34.1%

823,460

858,870

22,347,115

4.3%

24,563,270

9.9%

Long Range Planning Committee
by Fred Sorsabal, Chairman
The Long Range Plann · C
.
David C. Decker, Robert DmgPe~;:m1ttee,consistingoftheChairman,R:.W:.
Administr~tor - Union City, a~d Dale' ~;las Sc~tt'. SFO, Kell~ Wiest,
charged with updating last y '
.
y, Admm1strator - Covma was
'
ear s extensive report h · hr1 h .
a Y~ar ago, and presenting to the Board of Trustee ' ig ~ tm~ the actions since
believes there is a need to brio
.
. s areas m which the committee
future.
g particular attention and/or consideration for the
Of greatest concern to the committee h
number of applications to the H
d
as been the steady decline in the
facilities. Although there has b omth~ and 1!1e subsequent reduced census at both
. N
een is ecline we hav
. d
'
e notice a dramatic growth
m onresident Assistance (NRA) Wh .
1
1 e not yet at a crisis, the LRP Committee
has recommended that the ti t tr.
applicants to the Homes Irrst s ategy be to find ways to attract and admit more
·
.
·
was proposed that the dm · ·
simp1ifiedand reduced in time Th B
a iss1ons process must be
by relieving the Lodges of th t. d. e oard o~ Trustees took action to do just that
th
.
e e ious task of mvestig f
.
e applications. The Homes Staff ·u
a ionspnor to submission of
function wi~h the Lodges only sponsor:• i:;ow a~sume the _entire investigative
amount of time in processing.
g e applicants. This should reduce the
r
The total surrender of assets
hpo icy was thought to be a barrier to
admissions to the Homes and th ti
th t l"
ere ore t e committee
a po icy to enhance the numb
f
.
recommended a change in
"sliding scale" of surrender of as e~ ob ap~licants. It was recommended that a
provide a small donation to their ~;~ e a opted ~o enable eligible applicants to
by the Homes legal staff fior . cl I en .. The policy change is now under review
imp ementation.
The committee also recommend d d .
Trustees, that an adult day-care
. b e an . it was adopted by the Board of
service e provided at the Covina facility. This

323

new service would first be offered to the Masonic fraternity in the San Gabriel
Valley and if the numbers are insufficientthen this service would be provided (on
a fee basis) to the public. The committee felt that this service would best be
accomplished through a partnership with another non-profit entity that possesses
experience in this type of senior care.
The committee has been charged with looking at land-use alternatives at
Union City. At present, our flower grower has vacated the property that he has
leased for the last twelve years, and the Homes must now maintain the property.
In the committee's investigation, it was found that the underlying zone for the
property was Agriculture, Recreation and Open Space. A consultant has been
hired and we have begun work with the City of Union City to see ifthere are some
compatible land uses which can be placed on the acreage. This will take several
years before anything comes to fruition.
Medical Advisory Committee
by Victor Howard, Ph.D., Chairman
The Medical Advisory Committee, initially established July 1, 1992, has
had as its purposes, the following:
A.

Assure the Board of Trustees that on-going medical services are
consistent with the best medical practice.

B.

Provide advisory assistance and guidance to the Board of
• Trustees as required.

C.

Provide assistance and counsel to both Medical Director and
Board when "second opinions" are appropriate or when citations
are received.

D.

Provide "Advisory Assistance and Guidance" to Medical
Director and Administratorson on-going issues or problems, as
requested by Medical Director or Administrators.

E.

Provide counsel and guidance to both Medical Director and the
Board in areas of Long Range Planning for issues, needs, and
concerns likely to arise in the future.

During the past year, the committee has worked closely with both
Administrators in reviewing the special needs of their facility. Dr. Weinreb visited
Covina on several occasions and consulted with Dale Ankney on the planned
expansion of the Assisted Living area, as well as the provision of Hospice
Services.

324

325

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

He also worked closely with Administrator Kelly Wiest in the resolution
of several issues concerning the Phannacy at Union City, and in answering several
questions raised by Homes Residents about special equipment needs.

this new professionalism is a more consistent approach to addressing the problems
confronting the children residing at the Home. This consistency has minimized
conflict among the children and allowed each child to focus attention on his own
individual challenges in life. By doing so, the child matures, and in most cases,
begins working to achieve his or her highest potential.

During the period between our former Medical Director and Dr. Rashkis
joining the Homes, Dr. Weinreb functioned as Interim Medical Director, and
worked closely with the Admissions Staff in reviewing applicants' medical results.
He then met with Dr. Rashkis to assist in his taking over the responsibilities of the
Medical Director for the Homes.
The committee was also involved in a special environment study of the
Union City campus. Carol Dietrich, R.N., assisted the Professional Nursing Staff
in the development of in-service class for SNIF, and in several health care issues.
The committee continues to function as an independent, objective qualityreview body for the Board of Trustees of the Homes, to ensure that Residents at the
Homes continue to receive the highest effective level of health support available.
It also will continue to provide a professional base of support and
consultation as needed to the Homes Administrators, the Medical Director, and the
Professional Health Care Staff of the Homes on health care issues as they arise.

The committee includes:
Irwin Weinreb, M.D., Chairman
Clinical Professor, U.C.S.F. School of Medicine, and U.C.S.F.
Graduate School of Nursing; Consultant on Internal Medicine
and Cardiology; Gerontological Medicine.
Carol Dietrich, R.N.
Clinical Professor, U.C. School of Nursing, Gerontological
Nurse Practitioner
Ken Gottlieb, M.D.
Psychiatrist, Assoc. Professor, U.C.S.F. School of Medicine
Renaldo Parisi, D.D.S.
Dentist
Victor Howard, Ph.D.
Psychologist - Liaison with Board of Directors

Personnel Committee
by Victor Howard, Ph.D., Chairman
Under the direction of our Covina Administrator, Dale Ankney, the child
care program continues to strengthen as more House Parents received their
professional certification in the Family Home Model of Care (also known as the
Boys' Town model). At the close of the fiscal year, only one house was staffed by
house parents who had not received their professional certification. The result of

Again this year, while the rebuilding of the Union City complex is ongoing, the Administrator, Kelly Wiest, has continued to carefully monitor and
manage the staffing of the Home to ensure a continuinghigh level of flexibility and
adaptability. In addition, with the support of our Director of Human Resources,
Dawn Graeff, Administrator Wiest has dealt with a number of senior staff changes,
including a new Director of Environmental Services, Mike Heavidside, and a new
Director of Purchasing, Sharin Thygesen. Both of these new Directors come to the
Union City Masonic Home with a wealth of experience that will enhance our
residence programs.
The new Medical Director for Masonic Homes, Dr. John Rashkis, joined
us in August, 1997, and is providing medical guidance and assistance to both
facilities. He also is involved with the Admissions Committee in reviewing all
applicants for the Homes.
To accommodate both the Nonresident Assistance (NRA) and the
Admission parts of our Masonic Assistance Program, our Director of Masonic
Assistance, Kira Reginato, added two professional social workers to the staff. This
will greatly expedite the interviewing and processing of applicants, and assist the
Board in their review and approval process.
Other major efforts completed by the committee, with the assistance of
our Director of Human Resources, include the annual review of our compensation
and benefits program, with recommendations to the Board for adjustments where
necessary, to reduce turnover and remain competitive in California's tight labor
market; and maintaining on-going oversight of issues relating to discipline, of
communication to reduce liability and improve employee relations, as well as ongoing oversight of Workers' Compensation issues to reduce liability and contain
costs.
Following is a summary of personnel and compensation as budgeted for
the 1998/99 fiscal year:
Total Employees

Total Salary

San Francisco

10

Covina

70

$343,994
$1,644,366

Union City

282

$7,669,758

Location

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I would like to acknowledge the dedication and cooperation of Committee
Members David R. Doan and Charles H. Alexander, and the very capable
assistance of Union City Administrator, Kelly Wiest, and Covina Administrator,
Dale Ankney, as well as the continuing support of our Director of Human
Resources, Dawn Graeff.

assistance on them was provided upon request throughout the year. The
advantages of revocable and irrevocable trusts include reducing or eliminating
estate taxes, maintaining control of an estate even during disability, maintaining
control over distribution of assets, and avoiding lengthy and costly probate. Such
trusts can be used to achieve both charitable and non-charitable objectives that can
benefit the individual, family members, and the Masonic Homes of California.

Planned Giving Program
by Jeff H. Eichner, Jr., Director ofCharitable Giving
The Planned Giving Program is charged with the responsibility of
providing information and assistance to people on how to make gifts to the
Masonic Homes of California. During the year assistance and information was
provided to individuals, financial advisors, attorneys and accountants on various
ways to make charitable gifts.
Some of the Planned Giving Program options provide attractive and viable
ways for donors to receive a lifetime income, receive an income tax deduction, and
avoid capital gains tax, if applicable, while supporting the Masonic Homes. These
options include the Pooled Income Fund and Charitable Remainder Trusts.
The Pooled Income Fund offers an easy way to make a charitable gift to
the Masonic Homes of California and receive a lifetime income, avoid capital gains
tax, if applicable, and receive a charitable tax deduction that can be spread over six
years if necessary. During the year $82,000 was added to existing accounts, one
new account was established for $25,000, and $334,062 was transferred to the
Masonic Homes. As of June 30, 1998, the Pooled Income Fund had 69
participants with a year-end principal of$4,534,168.
During the year information and assistance was provided to many
individuals on how to establish Charitable Remainder Trusts that benefit the donor
as well as the Masonic Homes of California. In these cases, the donors receive a
lifetime income based on the full value of their gifts, avoid capital gains tax, if
applicable, and take a charitable tax deduction for up to six years.
Making a request in a will is one of the most common methods of making
gifts to the Masonic Homes and information and assistance on wills and bequests
was disseminated throughout the year. The Totten Trust is used, also, to designate
the Masonic Homes of California as the beneficiary of an individual's savings
account(s) in banks and other savings institutions. The money in the savings
account(s)belong to the donor, who can withdraw it at any time with the balance
of the account(s) going to the Masonic Homes of California at the time of the
donor's death.
Charitable giving through a living or family trust is another popular
method of making gifts to the Masonic Homes of California and information and

327

Policy Committee
by Charles H. Alexander, Chairman
The Policy Committee is charged with preparing changes in the Policy of
the Masonic Homes of California. These may include the preparation of a policy
statement reflecting changes made by the Board of Trustees, or the proposing of
policy changes that have been suggested by administrators ·or staff. Proposed
changes are submitted to the Board in advance, usually at the month preceding the
regular meeting when the change is scheduled for adoption. When adopted, new
pages are furnished to the staff and members of the Board for replacement of the
changed pages in the Policy Manual.
The following changes have been made during this year (October 1997
to August 1998.)
Policy Chapter &
Number

Title

Revision Date

IV;.002

Eligibility for Admission
of Children

November 5, 1997

[To conform to action taken at the 1997 Annual Communication to admit children
without Masonic relationship]
VII; .002

Confidentiality

February 4, 1998

[To expand and more strictly state the responsibilities regarding confidentiality of
information concerning residence, applicants and employees]
II; .001

Personnel Manual

August I, 1998

328

329

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

[To make explicit the policy of non-discrimination and to specify that Masonic
membership is not a factor in hiring or retention of employees]

During the past fiscal year, July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1998, we sold
a total of sixteen (16) pieces of property for a total of $1,016,667.34. In addition,
we sold fifteen (15) motor vehicles for a total of$37,210.

III ; .004

Scholarship Policy

August 1, 1998

[To establish a program of cultural enrichment for children residents of the Masonic
Home at Covina]
IV; .002

Admission, Withdrawal,
Termination and Eviction
of Children Residents at
Covina

August 1, 1998

[This was to being this section into conformity with the admission of children without
Masonic relationship]

In addition, a check sheet for all changes made since the 1996 re-printing
of the Policy Manual was submitted for all holders of the manual to check to make
sure that all the new pages had been correctly inserted.
In addition the Committee is studying Policies relating to the assignment
of assets to bring that policy into conformity with proposal made by the Long
Range Planning Committee, and adopted at the August 1998 Board meeting to
liberalize the bequeathing or gifting of assets of an applicant. Proposed changes
to effect the new policy have been submitted to the ChiefFinancial Officer and the
Chairman of the Long Range Planning Committee for review. If they concur in the
proposal, it will be presented at the October meeting of the Board Trustees.
Since the Policy Manual was last reprinted in 1996, I would make two
recommendations: one, that the manual be reprinted in it entirety and distributed;
secondly, that we purchase new binders. Since the Policy Manual is only a little
over 100 pages, it could be placed in a much smaller binder and be more
convenient to use and take to Board meeting.
Real Estate Committee
by Robert D. Peters, Chairman
The Real Estate Committee of the Masonic Homes of California is
charged with the responsibilityof disposing of all real estate and automobiles made
available to the Masonic Homes through asset assignment, wills and bequests, gifts
and grants.

We reduced notes receivable by $518,061 during the year, and were left
with 23 notes and $737,948 in receivables at fiscal year end.
We almost always have an inventory of unsold properties, due to the Life
Care Contract signed by each new resident of the Homes. This affords them a
ninety (90) day period to adjust and satisfy their own minds that they have no
intention of withdrawing from the Masonic Home. The resident then signs a
release authorizing the sale of their property.
The Real Estate Committee and the entire Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California wish to thank the office staff in San Francisco, the
co-ordinators in the respective Home, and particularly Brother Tom McKinney,
Mrs. Betty Blidy, and Brother Doug Scott, CFO, for their continuing assistance and
support in all of these various transactions.
Scholarship Committee
by Charles H. Alexander, Chairman
1998 Grants
We madt: two continuing grants this year. Adam Perry was granted
$10,340 to continue his work in Communications and Computer Science. He
needs to "get caught up on math." (His words) He plans to eventually transfer to
a four-year college. He was encouraged to limit his work hours and concentrate on
improving his academic performance.
Joey Burns' ultimate plans are to become a Landscape Architect. He was
given his requested grant of$7,200. Again we stressed the necessity of performing
academically, and minimizing work hours if need be. He reported that he had
raised his GPA to 2.00, which is encouraging.
We made an initial grant of $4,000 to Daysha Shunn, a graduating senior.
However, this was conditional on her graduating from high school. At the time of
the interview, there was some question. Having heard nothing to the contrary, it
may be assumed that she did graduate. I tried to verify this, but Barbara TenBroek
was not available at the time of the writing of this report.
We rejected two applications for very valid reasons. In one case, the
Administrators at the Covina Home recommended that a grant be dependent upon
the applicant remaining at the home for the first year of higher education. This the

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

applicant declined to consider, even though we indicated that her grant might
depend upon it.

our Administrators, Staff and Residents. The theme chosen for this Centennial
Year's events is, "Building A Future Upon A Century Of Caring".

The second rejection was based upon an incomplete application. No
record was submitted of her current classes at the community college where the
applicant was currently enrolled, although it has been repeatedly requested by the
administrators.

The first major project of this special year was the publishing of our
Centennial Magazine, a copy of which was sent to every Mason in our Grand
Jurisdiction. This highly successful publication entitled, "Building A Future .upon
A Century Of Caring", was developed under the direction of Worshipful Ronald
E. Cooper, a Past Master of Burbank Lodge No. 406. The magazine portrayed
through pictures and articles an historical biography of the growth, development
and accomplishmentsof the Homes over the last one hundred years. The Board of
Trustees wants to extend our thanks to Brother Cooper for an outstanding job.

Cultural Enrichment Program
The Scholarship Committee Recommended, and the Board of Trustees
approved the initiation of a program for cultural enrichment. The funds to support
such a program would be limited to 2% of the funds available for scholarship. The
rationale for this recommendation was that many of our child residents come from
disfunctional families with related cultural deprivation.
Future Concerns
As noted in the June 1998 report of the Scholarship Committee, the funds
currently available for scholarships is larger than any foreseeable need. Without
touching the corpus of the initial bequests, there is approximately 1.2 million
dollars in accrued interest and appreciation. This amount may vary due a change
in the value of the equities, but the Board of Trustees, together with the Board's
Attorney and ChiefFinancial Officer, needs to explore ways in which these funds
can be used without violating the terms of the wills and bequests of the donors.
IRS regulations could be involved if we simply let the funds continue to accrue
without limit.
President's Report
by Stanley M Cazneaux, PGM
Nineteen ninety-eight is an historical year in the history of the Masonic
Homes of California, as it ushers in the Centennial Anniversary of our beloved
Homes. Over these one hundred years our Homes have grown, flourished and
progressed, producing facilities and care of the highest quality and caliber. The
Masonic Homes of California, should be justly proud of their accomplishments,
and for the care and concern they show for their fellow man.
On Saturday, October 10, 1998, in celebration of the Centennial
Anniversary, the Most Worshipful Anthony P. Wordlow, Grand Master of Masons
in California, conducted the Centennial Rededication Ceremonies on the steps of
the SiminoffCenter, at our Masonic Home at Union City. This was the final event
of a year long celebration. It has been an exciting year for your Board of Trustees,

331

Included in the Centennial Celebration this year, was another major event,
the hosting of the Masonic Homes Executives' Association of North America on
June 20-24, 1998, at the San Ramon Marriott Hotel at Bishop Ranch. Two hundred
(200) participants attended this annual event. Three (3) days of high quality
educational training was provided for Administrators, Staff and members of the
Boards of Trustees. In addition, there were several social events and tours provided
for the families of the delegates. The event concluded with a wonderful Banquet
Dinner and Installation of the new officers of the Association. At the dinner a gift
of three ceramic quail, made by the residents of our Homes at Union City and
Covina, was presented to all those in attendance. The Board of Trustees wants to
thank Jeff Eichner, Director of Charitable Gifts, for participating as the Chairman
of this event and to the Administrators Kelly Wiest and Dale Ankney for their
assistance in making this one of the highlights of this Masonic Homes year.
To commemorate this Centennial Year your Board of Trustees
commissioned Nancy Pratt, a well known local artist, to paint a montage painting
that would give the viewer an insight into the warmth and love in our Masonic
Homes. Nancy far exceeded our expectations with her finished work. We have
now made copies of this beautiful painting available, in limited editions, to our
lodges or for private collections. I would encourage each lodge in our Grand
Jurisdiction to purchase one of these paintings and proudly place it in a prominent
location in the lodge.
In July the Board of Trustees met in Sacramento for its Annual Weekend
Retreat. The main focus of this retreat, in addition to its regular business, is to
update the Long Range Plan for our homes. We revisited and revised our Mission
Statement as well as making some major changes in the operation of our Homes.
One change, which I am sure will meet with the approval of all lodges in our
jurisdiction, is the abolishing of the requirement for the lodges to conduct the
investigation of applicants for the home. The Homes staff will now relieve the
lodges of this time consuming task. Another major change, will be a change in the
requirement of asset assignment. Applicants will still be required to tum-over

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

assets but will be able to keep or gift a certain percentage. Final details are being
worked on and a policy statement will be forwarded to the lodges in the near future.
I want to extend my personal thanks to Fred Sorsabal, Chairman of the Long Range
Planning Committee, for a job well done.

Report of the Administrator

I want to take this opportunity to express the Boards appreciation for the
work done by Kira Reginato, Director of Masonic Assistance and her staff.
Without her guidance and direction many of the changes described above would
not have happened. She has carried a very heavy workload while still finding time
to train her new staff. I know that those lodges who have required her assistance
appreciate her as much as the Board Members. She is truly a great asset to our
Masonic Homes.

Centennial Year

There are many hard working Committees on our Board of Trustees, but
none harder working than the Physical Facilities Committee, under the
Chairmanship of Warren T. Buschmann. He along with Thomas F. Joy and Alvin
J. Weis, put in many hours each month to assure the very finest facilities for our
residents and staff. They are currently in the middle of a fifty (50) million dollar
earthquake retrofit program, requiring many hours of dedicated work. On behalf
of the Board, I extend our deep appreciation for their tireless work.
This report would not be complete without words of appreciation for Kelly
Wiest, Administratorofthe Union City Home and Dale Ankney, Administrator of
our Covina Home and their staffs. They are professionals of the highest quality
and their efforts on behalf of our residents is appreciated by the Board of Trustees
and every Mason in our Grand Jurisdiction.

Charles H. Alexander, PGM
David R. Doan
Thomas F. Joy
Robert D. Peters
Frederick L. Sorsabal

Masonic Home, Union City

1997-1998

This year marked a major milestone for your Masonic Homes. Back in
December 1891, Grand Master William Johnston gave his official approval to the
plan for organization and maintenance of the "Masonic Widows and Orphans
Home", and a Board of Directors was appointed to oversee the project. This was
followed by the purchase of 268 acres of land near the town of Decoto on March
I 0, 1893. Construction of the Home began in 1896, and the completed Home was
dedicated by Grand Master Thomas Flint on October 12, 1898. During the first
year of operation 16 men, 5 women, I 0 boys and 6 girls were admitted to the new
Home. More information about the original dedication of this great Home can be
found in Chapter XIV "Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home" in the book, Eifiy
Years of Masom:y in California.
On October I 0, 1998, rededication ceremonies celebrating the first 100
years of the Masonic Homes of California were held at the Union City Home with
the same excitement and commitment as the original dedication in 1898!
One highlight of this event was the display of the 1896 cornerstone casket
contents:

•

Respectfully submitted,
Stanley M. Cazneaux, PGM, President
Warren T. Buschmann, Vice-President
David C. Decker
Victor Howard
Melville H. Nahin
Ernest A. Pooleon
Alvin J. Weis

333

•
•
•
•
•

A plate engraved setting forth the object of the Home, the order by which
it was projected, the date of the laying of the cornerstone and the names
of the Trustees, and the architect of the structure.
The Constitution of the Grand Lodge, F.&.A.M. of California.
The first volume of the proceedings of the Grand Lodge, F.&.A.M. of
California.
The address of Grand Master Preston for the present year.
Copies of the proceedings of the Grand Lodge from 1892 to 1985
inclusive.
Copies of the proceedings of the Grand Chapter, R.A.M., of 1896.

•

Copy of the proceedings of the Grand Council, R.&S.M., of 1896 .

•
•
•

Copy of the proceedings of the Grand Commandery, K.T., of 1896 .
Copy of the proceedings of the Grand Consistory, A.&A.S.R., of 1896 .
Copy of the proceedings of the Grand Chapter, O.E.S., of 1896 .

334

335

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•

By-laws of Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home.

1941

James R. Eubanks

Superintendent

•

List of subscribers to Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home Fund.

1956

Gail H. David

Superintendent

•

Copies of San Francisco daily papers and of the Oakland Tribune for
October 13, 1896.

1971

Hugh B. Herring

Superintendent

1974

Joseph M. Olafson

Superintendent

1976

J. Burton Brown

Administrator

1989

Paul M. Boyar

Administrator

1993

Kelly E. Wiest

Administrator

Another highlight was a first time ever color edition of our residents'
monthly newsletter THE MESSENGER containing many great photos of our
Home and its history, as well as greetings to the residents from our Grand Master,
Anthony P. Wordlow and our Board of Trustees President, Stanley M. Cazneaux.
This edition, as well as the following items were placed in the 1998 time capsule,
to be opened at our bi-centennial celebration in the year 2098.
•

1998 Centennial Magazine

•

October 10, 1998 newspaper

•

1998 silver minted coins

•
•
•
•
•

Current list of Grand Lodge Officers
Current list of Board of Trustees
Current list of Masonic Home for Adults employees
Current list of Masonic Home for Adults residents
Letters from current residents to future residents, describing life at the
Home in 1998

•

1998 Rededication program

•

Dietary menus

During the Home's Centennial year, I feel it is important to acknowledge
the previous men who played leadership roles in this distinguished 100 year
history:

"Building a Future Upon a Century of Caring" has been our year long
theme to celebrate this historical occasion. In May, all California Master Masons
received the Masonic Homes of California Centennial magazine by this same
name. This publication has an excellent historical time line, and life at both
Masonic Homes is depicted by many wonderful pictures.
However, due to major renovations underway at the facility, in another
short year the magazine could be updated to include the newly remodeled North
Wing residence containing 36 modem spacious apartments, as well as
Environmental Services, Transportationand Maintenance offices in the basement.
This renovation will also include major earthquake renovation work and a brand
new enlarged elevator.
By the tilne my next Annual Report is printed, I will be advising you of
the Main Administration or South Wing renovation. Our historic red brick exterior
will remain for these last three major building renovations.
The residents of the Home were quite active this Centennial year in
participating in several public and vendor open houses, and in making two
Centennial quilts. One of these quilts is on display in the Siminoff Center and the
other one is displayed in the Adams Residence Recreation Area. The following
residents were involved in these quilt projects:
Adams Quilt

Siminoff Quilt
1898

l.R. Aiken

Superintendent

Ellen Amauric

Ruth Asher

Maxine Hurtt

1905

Hiram N. Rucker, M.D.

Superintendent

Ruth Alice Brooks

Betty Ashfield

Thelma Kilbury

1907

George Runkel

Superintendent

Anna Davis

Ida Mae Coffman

Sally Kirkpatrick

Mabel Faukner

Maxine Land

1908

William H. Edwards

Superintendent

Peggy Franklin

1909

H. W. Martin

Superintendent

Mike Kilbury

Peggy Franklin

Gladys Lewis

1910

Frank B. Hartman

Superintendent

Thelma Kilbury

Ethel Gersbacker

Louise McCord

336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Gladys Lewis

Toni Gomez

Adeline Morehead

Virginia Thompson

Marion Harrington

Freda Shrank

Bee Young

Rae Hester

Cozy Ora Sloan

Ellen Holmes

Marye Whitfield

Bee Young

Resident centennial milestones this year included the birthdays of:
Lily Wilkinson

Age 107

Charity Jarman #362

Edward Jesse Lacy

Age 107

San Fernando #343

Lillian Garfias

Age 106

Occidential-Califomia # l & Temple# 14

Maria Head

Age 102

DeAnza #511

Rose Packard

Age 100

Los Gatos-George E. Tutt #292

Another notable accomplishment in this special year was the hosting of
the 68th Annual Meeting of the Masonic Home's Executive Association of North
America. On June 22, 1998, 200 participants of this conference visited our Home
for tours and a barbecue. These 200 delegates were Administrators, Chief
Executive Officers, Trustees, Grand Lodge Officers, and staff and family members
of other Masonic and Eastern Star Homes from across the country. They were
truly impressed with our Home and the care provided to our residents. Below is
a quotation from one of our visitors:
"The reception and tour that we were treated to was of
exceptional quality and of commendable pride and thoroughness. Our
entire group was continually amazed by the high degree of professional
care and first class accommodations that residents receive at the Home.
It was indeed a refreshing exhibit of how well older adults can live out the
golden years of their lives in comfort, serenity and complete peace of
mind that they will be cared for physically, emotionally, medically and
spiritually.
As we toured the different areas of the Home, the staff was
cordial, polite and very interested in showing us the areas of their
responsibility and appeared to be genuinely involved with the residents.
And, we could see the reciprocal feeling by the residents toward the
employees as if they were an extended family."

337

The Board of Trustees had the foresight to capture our Centennial History
on canvas. Nancy Pratt, a well known Bay Area water color artist, was
commissioned to do a Limited Edition Centennial watercolor.
Both Masonic Homes of California, that of Union City and Covina, are
showcased in this beautiful watercolor montage using an early Italian architectural
style. The five arches and columns of the old and new entrance to the Union City
Home provide the perfect design for the painting which provides the viewer
glimpses of indoor and outdoor scenes of the Victorian treasure. The flowered
borders show off the flora and fauna around the Home, including gladiolus from
surrounding hillsides, roses, deer, the California State flower, the Golden Poppy
and the California State bird, the Valley Quail. If you haven't seen this magnificent
painting, you are in for a real treat! Paintings may be ordered through my office
and proceeds will support the Masonic Homes.
When not involved in Centennial events, the residents of the Home
continued to use the Grider Health Center which was built in 1996 to keep our
residents healthy and active. This year the center recognized 22 residents who
earned the President's Sports Award. The President's Council, in conjunction with
national sports organizations and associations, offers the Presidential Sports _Award
Program to recognize and promote "the commitment to fitness through a~t1~e and
regular participation in sports and fitness activities." The program, adm1mstered
by AAU (American Athletic Union), has been adopted by the Grider Health Center
to encourage and reinforce consistency in participation. And it works!
Our annual population report indicates that as of June 30, 1998 we had
226 residents, 58 Masons and 168 spouses/widows. There were 20 couples and the
average age is 87.
Once again we are grateful to the many Masonic affiliated groups who
have assisted the Home in various ways. During the past year there were 60
Masonic Lodge visits, 14 Eastern Star Chapter visits, 33 Assemblies of Rainbow
Girls visits, and 6 Bethels of Jobs Daughters visits.
Special appreciation is once again extended to the following
Lodges/Associations who hosted special resident events throughout the year:
East Bay Past Matron's Association

84th Jam and Jelly Day

Alameda Lodge No. 167, Fremont

Octoberfest

Crow Canyon Lodge No. 551, Castro Valley
Acacia Lodge No. 243, Hayward

Strawberry Festival
Steak Barbecue

338

339

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Crow Canyon Lodge No. 551 is also due recognition for donating a brand
new flag pole complete with the U.S. and California flags for .our main entrance.
Many thanks to the Brothers and Ladies of this Lodge for this very patriotic
addition to our campus.

Masonic Home for Adults at Union City

The employees of this great Home deserve a great deal of praise for all the
love and care they provide to our residents on a daily basis. Without their
professionalismand hard work, we never could have grown into the organization
we are today. I am especially grateful to Shirley Weber, Associate AdministratorHealth Services, and Gilbert Smart, AssistantAdministrator-BusinessServices, for
the leadership roles they play in building and guiding our very capable
Management Team.
Credit must also be given to the Masonic Homes of California Board of
Trustees for its excellent leadership, planning and wisdom that is so vital in
keeping our mission alive while guiding us into the next millennium.
Special recognition is due to the members of the Endowment Board for
their continuous efforts in obtaining funds to support our great Home, and to all
California Masons who give so generously to the Endowment Fund and who are
also very supportive of our many Home events.
On behalf of our employees and residents, we look forward to seeing
many of you during the coming year!
In closing, I am reminded of the following quote by Eleanor Roosevelt,
"The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams." Masonic
Homes of California has many dreams for our next 100 years. It truly has been a
year of"Building a Future Upon a Century of Caring"!

Annual Report July I, 1997 to June 30, 1998
Population Changes During the Fiscal Year

Totals

Average Age

Admissions

235
+26

86 years
84 years

Deceased
Withdrawn

-35
0

89 years
0

Population June 30, 1997 .

226

87 years

Men
0
7

Women
0
15

Total

23
27

88
61
4

111
88
5

58

168

226

Population July I, 1997

AgeGroues
60- 69 years
70- 79 years
80- 89 years
90- 99 years
100 +years

Respectfully submitted,
Kelly Wiest, Administrator

TOT AL RESIDENTS

+ Indicates Couple
• New Resident

0
22

340

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Women Admitted (17)
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998

Women Residents (168)
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998

Average Age - 82 Years

Average Age - 87 Years
ADMITTED

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

ADMllTED

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

Albertson, Viola

12127/90

Riverbank

459

Riverbank

??

01/26/98

Vitruvius

145

Bloomfield

86

Alcalde, Evelyn

I0/23/95

Acalanes Fellowship

480

Lafayette

90

NAME
NAME
Arenander. Mary•

341

AGE

Baldwin, Ellen•

07114/97

Francis Drake

Bixby, Louise•

376

So. San Francisco

80

Amauric, Ellen

05/12/97

Crow Canyon

551

Hayward

88

12/15/97

Acacia Grove

Bradley, Margaret•

351

Garden Grove

Anderson, Lorraine

07/29/96

Acacia

243

Hayward

82

06/08/98

71

Westchester - Salinas

Brewer, Sarah•+

204

Salinas

01/26/98

Vitruvius

145

Bloomfield

??

10/20/97

83

Arenander, Mary•

Fresno

247

Fresno

75

Asher, Edna

04/18/94

Dusmuir/McCloud

297

Dunsmuir

83

Ashfield, Elma+

09/11/95

San Diego

35

San Diego

??

Butler, Enna•

01/12198

Island City

Denyberry, Helen•+

215

Oakland

11/04197

82

Chico-Leland Stanford

111

Chico

84

Gitschlag, Laura·

03/15/98

Napa Valley

Hennanson, Etna•

93

St. Helena

84

Balcer, Clarice

10/03/86

Western Star

2

Shasta

??

06129/98

Blackmer

442

San Diego

07/14/97

Francis Drake

376

So. San Francisco

80

09/15/97

85

Baldwin, Ellen•

West Valley

611

Canoga Park

Barger, Roberta

01/31/94

Oceanside

381

Oceanside

90

08/04/97

82

Brotherhood

370

San Francisco

Barnett, Katherine

08/26/86

So. Pasadena

290

So. Pasadena

??

06/15/98

93

Brotherhood

370

San Francisco

08/14/90

Southern California

529

Playa del Rey

86

09/15/97

Palm Desert

89

Bechtel, Jean

826

Hot Springs

Beech, Artie

03/06/95

Oxnard

341

Oxnard

79

10/28197

86

Alcalanes Fellowship

480

Stockton

78

Berger, Edna

11/19/84

Oovis

417

Clovis

94

Heumann, Ruth•
Mills, Thelma•
O'Connor, Inna•
Prater, Lillian•+
Redhead, Gladys•+
Rensen, Araminda•+

08/14/97

Old West

Wulf, Grace•

813

Newhall

81

Berry, Roberta

03/29/91

Gateway

339

Brea

01/20/98

Nevada

13

Nevada City

12/15/97

Acacia Grove

351

Garden Grove

??
??

04/20/98

80

Bixby, Louise•

Santa Cruz - San Lorenzo

38

Santa Cruz

85

Bolander, Irene

06/27/94

Long Beach

327

Long Beach

79

Boscow, Elsie

12102/91

Orinda

494

Orinda

91

Bradley, Margaret

06/08/98

Westchester - Salinas

204

Salinas, CA

??

Brewer, Sarah•+

I0/20/97

Fresno Lodge No. 247

247

Fresno

75

Brooks, Ruth M.

06/14n4

Alta Mt. Sierra

408

Altadena

??

Brown, Floss

09/25/91

Downey United

220

Downey

91

Young, Kathleen•

Men Admitted (9)
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998
Average Age - 84 Years
NAME

ADMITTED

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

I0/20197

Fresno

247

Fresno

77

Eller, Robert•

11/04/97
09/08197

Chico-Leland Stanford
Acacia

111

Chico

86

Finch, William•

243

Hayward

12115/97

East San Diego

83

561

San Diego

05/18/98

International City

90

389

Bellflower

93

826

Hot Springs

90

Brewer, Dee•+
Denyberry, Warren•+

Perrin, Paul•
Prater, Floyd•+

09/15/97

Palm Desert

Redhead, Frank•+

I 0/28197

Acalanes Fellowship

Rensen, Serafin•+

03/18/13

Old West

Riley, Roland•+

03/25/98

Reading Lodge

480

Stockton

AGE

80

813

Newball

85

254

Redding

84

Buscaino, Alice

03/14/84

Mission

169

San Francisco

??

Butler, Enna•

01/12198

Island City

215

Oakland

82

Byars, Betty

05121185

Fresno

247

Fresno

80

Carstens, Gladys

07/13/92

Sanger

316

Sanger

Casler, Winifred

09/24/91

Stanislaus

206

Modesto

Church, Ann

01/28/91

Pacific Grove

331

Pacific Grove

Coffman, Ida Mae

02111/88

Taft-Midway

426

Taft

??
??
??
??

Conner, Alice

11/27/95

Chico-Leland Stanford

111

Chico

87

Cornett, Edna

10/19/92

Crow Canyon

569

Castro Valley

??

Creek, Edna

I0/20/89

Sacramento

40

Sacramento

96

??
??
??
??

Daniel, Josephine

04/22/86

Capital City

499

Sacramento

Davis, Anna

05/20/96

Fairfax

556

Larkspur

Davis, Sarah

05/04/92

Truckee

200

Truckee

Delavan, Bernice

06/17/82

Tehama

3

Sacramento

342
NAME

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
ADMITTED

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

343

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

NAME

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

Delk, Genevieve

12/15/87

Yucaipa Valley

726

Yucaipa

??

Jackson, Thyra

08/12/86

Table Mountain

124

Paradise

91

DeRiemer, Theone

03/16/88

Roseville

222

Roseville

85

Jensen, Jacquetta

01/06/86

Sotoyome-Curtis

123

Healdsburg

83

Denybeny, Helen•+

11/04/97

Chico-uland Stanford

111

Chico

84

Johnson, Mary

04/19/82

Live Oak

61

Oakland

??

Doty, Ora

06/01/92

Corinthian

Marysville

83

Jones, Ann+

07112/89

Oxnard

341

Oxnard

??

9

Duch, Anna+

03/24/86

Chula Vista

626

Chula Vista

88

Dunlap, Lydia

03/06/90

Magnolia-La Cumbre

242

Santa Barbara

88

ADMITTED

Karnes, Olma

07/01/92

So. Pasadena

290

So. Pasadena

??

Kaufinan, Florence

02/17/88

ubanon-Pacitic

136

San Francisco

94

Eggers, Mildred

09/30/91

DeAnza

511

Sunnyvale

82

Keasler, Lena

01/16/90

Inland Empire

306

Rialto

93

Eichorn, Florence

12128/93

Pomona

246

Pomona

90

Kilbury, Thelma+

12/12194

Unity

753

Hawthorne

80

Kirkpatrick, Sara

04/14/97

Santa Rosa Luther Burbank

57

Santa Rosa

??

Ferrara, Evelyn+

12/13/82

Burbank

406

Burbank

??

Forsberg, Anna

05/18/92

Georgetown

25

Georgetown

12/18/87

Tehachapi

313

Tehachapi

??

10/16/87

Diablo Valley

448

Concord

??
95

Lamphiear, Claire

Forsyth, lone+

Land, Eliz.abeth+

I 0/04/93

Santa Cruz

38

Santa Cruz

75

Fowler, Ruby

05/16/90

Normal Heights

632

San Diego

91

Lawler, Betty

08129/89

La Jolla

518

La Jolla

??

Francis, Jean

08/01/94

Diablo Valley

448

Concord

??

Lewis, Gladys+

02113195

Table Mountain

124

Paradise

86

Franklin, Peggy

03121195

South Bay

421

El Segundo

96

Lohmeyer, Dorothy

11/09/81

Occidental-CA

San Francisco

??

Frush, Elisabeth+

10/07 /82

Santa Monica-Palasades

307

Santa Monica

93

Love, Verna

02126/86

Los Altos

712

Los Altos

??

Garfias, Lillian

07/28/87

Temple

14

Sonoma

105

Mallard, Ellen

01/19/93

Normal Heights

632

San Diego

86

Gersbacher, Ethel

05123194

Lodi

256

93

Maneff, Mary

07 /22192

Beverly Hills

528

Beverly Hills

85

92

Marble, Esther

03124/97

Compass

590

Pomona

84

84

McCallum, Charlotte

05128186

Pasadena

272

Pasadena

88

Gilbert, Maybelle

05/15186

Crow Canyon

551

Lodi
Hayward

Gitshlag, Laura•

03/16/98

Napa Valley

93

St. Helena

Goodale, Rachel

10/28/91
09125195

Willow Glen

676

San Jose

89

McCord, Louise

I 0/25/94

Crow Canyon

569

Castro Valley

??

San Francisco

120

San Francisco

79

McCrory, Agnes

06/16/97

Rosemead

457

Rosemead

??
86

Graham, Elsie
Grimstad, Kathleen

08/02193

Woodland

81

Woodland

89

Miller, Myrtle

11/19/92

LaPuente

446

West Covina

Gruening, Margaret

07/23/87

So. Pasadena

290

So. Pasadena

??

Miller, Wanda

03/17/86

Mariposa

24

Los Angeles

95

Mills, Thelma•

08/04/97

Brotherhood

370

San Francisco

93
??

Hamp, Irene+

10/26192

Magnolia-La Cumbre

242

Santa Barbara

??

Morehead, Adeline

03129/93

Enterprise

70

Yuba City

Hansen, Alice

06/15/89

Orland Laurel

245

Orland

90

Morton, Pauline

10/11/90

San Jose

10

San Jose

??

Hanington, Marion

01122192

Golden Trowel

273

Norwalk

??

Murphy, Helene

08/26/80

Riviera

780

Pac. Palisades

90

Harvey, Esther

06/29/92

Acacia

243

Hayward

87

Havlik, Helen+

06/09/97

Winnedumah

287

Bishop

80

Neckel, Vaneeta

05123195

Liberal Arts

677

Los Angeles

83

Head, Maria

05/31178

De Anza

511

Sunnyvale

102

Nelson, Martha Jane

I 0128/93

Lassen-Janesville

149

Susanville

79

Heikens, Dorothy

05/19/97

Los Altos No.

712

LosAltos

??

Neumann, Cecile+

10/27/92

Yucaipa

726

Yucaia

??

Henwood, Eva

07 /12193

San Jose

10

San Jose

??

Norbert, Ethel

07/18/90

Mission

169

San Francisco

??

Herdman, Ruth

07 /15/91

San Francisco

120

San Francisco

87

Hermanson, Ema•

06/29/98

Blackmer

442

San Diego

85

O'Connor, Irma

06/15/98

Brotherhood

370

San Francisco

??

Hester, Rae

06/19/95

Vista

687

Vista

80

Oidne, Audrey

0 I /22196

Berkeley

363

Berkeley

80

Heumann. Ruth•

09/15/97

West Valley

611

Canoga Park

??

Oman, Marianne

03/07/85

Acacia

243

Hayward

Higgins, Betty

??

I 0/07/96

Morning Star

68

Stockton

74

Osborn, Maxine

12/04/95

Crow Canyon

569

Castro Valley

Holmes, Ellen

??

12/ 11191

Golden Rule

479

San Jose

85

Oxe,Mabel+

06/15/92

East San Diego

561

San Diego

Hopkins, Louise

01107/88

Silver Gate

296

San Diego

93

Howdeshell, Mary

10/08/85

Hollywood

355

Van Nuys

89

Packard, Rose

05129184

Los Gatos-George E. Tutt

292

Los Gatos

100

Hurtt, Maxine

09123196

Hesperian

264

Santa Maria

??

Palmer, Margaret

05/17/88

Van Nuys

450

Van Nuys

??

NAME
Pappas, Katherine•

ADMITTED
09/12/96

LODGE
South Pasadena

NO.
290

LOCATION
Pasadena

AGE
92
96

Pmy,Fem

09/03/86

Woodbridge

131

Galt

Petersen, Wilhelmina
pfaff, Sarah

11129/93

220

Downey

08/09/93

Downey United
Redwood City

J68

Redwood City

90

11/22/93

Alcatraz

244

Oakland

91

Pflug, Velma+
Phillips, Eleanor
Pikes, Frances
Prater, Lillian•+
Quigley, Rachel•

01/3 J/91
07/06/92
09/15/97
03/13/97

Estero
Palm Desert Lodge
Table Mountain

24
719
826
124

?"
?"

09126194

Mosaic

01/13/92

Pasadena

272

Walter, Olyve

09/26/gg

Homitos

98

Homitos

92

Warfield, Eleanor
Webb, Eleanor

06/26/89

Live Oak

61

02/17/81

Marin

191

Oakland
San Rafael

·99

Hayward

97

?"
??

Webber, Haul

12/08/86

Acacia

MorroBay
Hot Springs

87

Whiteman, Malvina

01/17/85

388

San Francisco

86

Whitfield, Marye
Whitsitt, Evelyn

OJ/30/95

Columbia
Charity Jasman

362

Campbell

Reading
Charity Jarman

254

Redding

80

362

San Jose

107

Marysville
Los Angeles

89

Paradise

??

12/06/94

Wilkinson, Lily

08101189

Will,Ivadel

04/22/92
09/16/92

Corinthian
Atwater Larchmont

614

11/08nJ

Fresno

247

Nevada

13

9

??

10/02/95

394

79

10/28197

Morning Star

68

Stockton

78

Wulf, Grace•

01120198

08/14/97

Old West
East-Belt Tuolomne

813

Newhall

8

Sonora

87

Santa Cruz - San Lorenzo

38

04/20/98

Santa Cruz - San Lorenzo

38

789

Coming
Sacramento

Young, Bernice
Young, Kathleen

09/12/94

93

486

Bakersfield

??
89

01/25/93
04127/92
01/13/97
04/30/91

Olivet
Oak Plains
Caledona

205

120
215

Alameda

86

08/24/89

Hemet

615

87

Shecklen, Jean•

J0/21/96

301

Sigler, Winifred
Sloan, Cozy

I0109195
06/26/95

Ontario
Oakland-Durant-Rockridge
Van Nuys

Hemet
Ontario

450

Oakland
Van Nuys

09110186

Alamo

122

Concord

I gg

Van Nuys

86

09/21/92

Hollywood

57

02127/95

Lancaster

437

Lancaster

09110191

Wisdom

202

Pasadena

09115180

Huntington Beach

380

Huntington Beach
San Francisco
King City

01/21/92

I 1/07 /90
I0/1 1/89
08/03/92
08/05192

I0106189
02/18/87

Columbia
Santa Lucia
Brotherhood
Golden Gate-Speranza
Van Nuys
Carpinteria
Consuleo

NAME
Blackmon, Mary
Brooks, Ruth Alice
Brown, Mary

355

08/12/92

Columbia

388
302
3 70
30
450

444
325

San Francisco
San Francisco

85
85

Average Age - 90 Years

?"

388

12/11/95

?"
80

Women Deceased (25)
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998

85
86

670

Santa Cruz
Santa Cruz

??

??

Whinier
Santa Rosa
San Francisco

GrecnleafGardens
Santa Rosa Luther Burbank

03/17/87

Stockton
Nevada City

87

San Francisco
Island City

Wagner, Evelyn

Pasadena

Walden, Velma
Walker, Geneva

Mariposa

08/23/93

Van de Geer, Selma

AGE

Torrance

06/30/89

Turner, Jean

LOCATION
Livermore

218

Garberville

Schrank, Freda
Sedam, Helen
Sermuks, Eunice+

Tomlin, Mildred
Tompkins, Leannah
Tomai, Elizabeth

NO.

243

San Francisco

Thompson, Virginia
Thurston, Helen
Thweatt, Mary Bell

LODGE

683

Rensen, Araminda•+
Riley, Geraldine

Stobie, Carolyn
Stukey, Anna
Swallow, Ada

ADMITTED

Redwood Empire
Torrance University

06/22/88

Sobey, Mildred
Somes, Margaret
Southworth, Lucile+

NAME

Wilson, Pearl
Wolfendon, Inez

Ratchford, Sadie
Ratzlaff, Emma
Redhead, Gladys•+

Rogers, Dorothy
Rominger, Marie
Runyun, Winnie

Mariposa

345

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

344

87
77

87
87

?"
?"

ADMITTED

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

313

Tehachapi
San Leandro
Oakland
National City

83

03/30/97

Tehachapi
Eden Standard
Oakland Durant Rockridge

Dauphine, Eva
Dorman, Marian

06/13/85

South West

283

02/25/85

202

Edwards, Jean
Falkenstein, Madge
Faulkner, Mabel

11129/82

Wisdom
Palo Alto Roller

346

I 0/21/87

Table Mountain

124

Pasadena
Palo Alto
Paradise

I 0/05192

Clovis

417

aovis

93

Gomez, Antonia
Goodrich, Clara

09116194

315

Norwalk

77

726
215

Yucaipa
Alameda

95

09109196

Norwalk
Yucaipa
Island City

02/06/95

Victorville

634

Victorville

89

12/31/91

Tuscan-Maxwell
Durant Rockridge

182

Sacramento

85

188
61

Oakland
Oakland

98

290

So. Pasadena

86

486

Bakersfield

94

Jacobs, Doris
Kraft, Muriel
Manford, Evelyn

08126/88
03/04/96

04/06/92

113
188

93
92

99
92

88
96

78

89

Van Nuys

Marshall, Lulu
McPherson, Edythe

01/17/81
01/04/93

Carpinteria

O'Dcan, Wanda
Olsen, Melinda

Live Oak
So. Pasadena

03/13/86

Caledonia

12114/87

Keith

187

Gilroy

88

Escondido

Phillips, Leona
Preston, Alice

01104189

Palm Springs

693

Palm Springs

85

93

95

11123/92

NAME

ADMITIED

LODGE

347

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

346

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

NAME

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

06/09/97

Winnedumah

287

Bishop

80

ADMllTED

Robb, Edith

11/30/92

Columbia

388

San Francisco

99

Havlik, Louis+•

Vacaville

134

Vacaville

91

Hendry, Joseph

04/17/91

Kem River Valley

Kernville

??

07/17/85

827

Rosenblum, Bernice

Johnson, Herbert

05/13/96

Taft-Midway

426

Taft

??

Kilbury, Minard+

12/12/94

Unity

753

Hawthorne

74

Koehler, Jack

01/10/79

Acacia

243

Hayward

??

Kraft, Ludwig

02/06/95

Victorville

634

Victorville

96

Lacy, Jesse

03/09/92

San Fem an do

343

San Fernando

106

Land, Virgil+

10/04/93

Santa Cruz

38

Santa Cruz

82

Leach, Lester

04/20/92

Camarillo

824

Camarillo

91

Lehman, Adolph

09/I 5/89

Stanislaus

206

Modesto

99

Lemley, William

06/20/94

Orange Grove

293

Orange

85

Lewis, Howard+

02/13/95

Table Mountain

124

Paradise

88

Lewis, Richmond

08/25/92

Alhambra

322

Alhambra

??

Shields, Lillian

04/30n9

Metropolitan

352

Downey

91

Street, Clara

01117/80

Diablo Valley

448

Concord

92

Triplett, Ruth

04/30/86

Fort Crook

250

Fall River Mills

91

VrMeer, Chrystelle

08/28/95

Acacia

243

Hayward

91

Men Residents (58)
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998
Average Age - 87 Years
NAME

ADMITIED

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

Anderson, Dewey

02/03/97

Rosemead

457

Rosemead

??

Ashfield, Arthur+

09111195

San Diego

35

San Diego

??

Bar!cer, William

07/20/92

San Francisco

120

San Francisco

85

Bennin, Loren

12/12/86

Long Beach

327

Long Beach

Brewer, Dee'+

I 0/20/97

Fresno Lodge

247

Fresno

??
??

Burt, Roy

07108192

Tri-Square

551

Hayward

Cheney, Benjamin

03/13/95

Solomon's Staircase

357

Buena Parle

Daube, Ironton

08/24/92

San Francisco

120

San Francisco

93

03/20/95

Table Mountain

124

Paradise

78

Derryberry, Warren•+

11/04/97

Chico-Leland Stanford

111

Chico

Duch, Joseph+

03/24/86

Chula Vista

626

Chula Vista

Davis, Bernard

McDonald, Walter

0 l /3 l /89

Island City

215

Alameda

97

Muhlmann, Reinhard

09/ 14/93

Hermann

127

Burlingame

??

70

Neumann, Lloyd+

10/27/92

Yucaipa

726

Yucaipa

??

??

Olson, Marvin

06/30/80

Capital City

499

Sacramento

92

San Diego

93

??
??

Eller, Robert*

09/08/97

Acacia

243

Hayward

??

Erickson, Gustav

12/12190

Oakland-Durant

188

Oakland

??

Oxe, Carl+

06/ l 5/92

East San Diego

561

Perrin, Paul

05/18/98

International City

389

Bellflower

Pflug, Carl+

11122193

Alcatraz

244

Oakland

??
??

Phillips, Norton

I 0/30/95

Santa Rosa Luther Burbank

57

Santa Rosa

88

Pitts, Jack

03/13/97

Upland-Mt. Baldy

419

Upland

Prater, Floyd+

09115198

Palm Desert

826

Hot Springs

??
??

Redhead, Frank•+

10/28197

Fellowship

480

Stockton

Rensen, Serafin•+

08/14/97

Old West

813

Newhall

??
??

Ferrara, Frank+

12/ 13/82

Burbank

406

Burbank

88

San Diego

90

Riley, Roland•

03125198

254

??

561

Redding

East San Diego

Reading

Finch, William•

12115197

05/28/91

Oakland-Durant-Rockridge

188

Oakland

91

04/19/93

Elysian

418

Los Angeles

??
88

Forsyth, Bernard+

05/21/91

Diablo Valley

448

Concord

97

Rothe, Henry

Frush, Paul+A343

08/14/73

Santa Monica-Palisades

307

Santa Monica

??

Ruggeri, Andy

315

Norwalk

??

Sermuks, Carl+

08124/89

Hemet

Norwalk

615

09/16/94

Hemet

Gomez, Jesse

95

808

W. Sacramento

??

01/09/95

09109192

Scepter

Gonsalves, Gabriel

Smith, Herbert

76

Southworth, Herbert+

12111/95

Santa Rosa Luther Burbank

57

Santa Rosa

??

Live Oak

61

Oakland

Gonzales, John

03/02/92

Vacaville

134

Vacaville

Gorham, Henry

05124189

Columbia

388

San Francisco

??
88

Trabucco, Ray

11121 /94

Jackson

97

Burbank

65

09/12196

406

Amador

Griffin, Alfred•

Burbank

Grigsby, John

03/08194

Anaheim Azure

207

Anaheim

Magnolia-LaCumbre

242

Santa Barbara

??
??

Watkins, Edward

02/12/96

Oakland-Durant-Rockridge

Oakland

??

10/26/92

188

Hamp, Clarence+

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Men Deceased (10)

Report of the Administrator
Masonic Homes, Covina
1997-1998

July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998
Average Age- 88 Years

NAME
Conner, William

ADMITTED
11127195

LOCATION

Chico-Leland-Stanford

111

Chico

86

Oxnard

451

Whittier
Rosemead

83
84

Jones, William

07112/89

Magil, Howard

08/19/95

Oxnard
Montebello

341

McCrory, J.R.
Monroe, William
Oidne, Frederick

06/16/97

Rosemead

457

02/02/89

San Jose

10

01122/96
12/14/87

Berkeley

363
187

Phillips, Guy
Roudebush, Myron
Vandebrooke, Karl
Wright, Claude

09/14/89

Keith
Long Beach

06105195

Occidential

09/04/91

AGE

NO.

LODGE

Vista

87

San Jose
Berkeley

89

Gilroy

86

327

Long Beach
San Francisco

92

687

Vista

95

84

91

349

As the dawn of a new century approaches, the Masonic Home at Covina
is well-positioned to continue serving children and adults alike. Thanks to the
generosity of our membership and the dedicated service of a professional staff,
there is little doubt that the Covina Home will continue to set the standard of care
for those in need in the new millennium.
Last year I described the many innovations we have implemented in order
to better serve the residents of the Home. That tradition has continued during this
past year, but it has taken on somewhat of a new form. Our goal during this past
year was to refine our existing programs, and through that refinement process,
identify enhancements to our programs that will allow our residents to receive the
maximum benefit from our staff's efforts.
Perhaps the greatest effort put forth at Covina during the past year was on
the children's side of our campus. As I have previously reported, the Covina
Home elected two years ago to revise its child care program in order to better meet
the needs of a more challenging clientele. By challenging, I mean that the children
who were in residence at the Home when we revised our program were children
who had little understanding of what the meaning of family really was. Typically,
a child resident at.the Home had come to us from an environment that included
neglect, abuse and sometimes abandonment. Family support was foreign to their
way of thinking, and because of the child's unfortunate family experience, the term
family took on a negative connotation. Our ultimate goal was to change that way
of thinking.
The means we chose to help our children was to implement the Family
Home Model of Care, a care model developed by Dr. Montrose Wolf of the
University of Kansas, and practiced with great success at Boys Town group homes
nationwide. The primarycomponentofthis program is the employment of married
couples to serve as Family Specialists (formerly known as house parents) in each
individual cottage. These married couples, often accompanied by their own
children, live with our child residents and serve as family role models. Now in our
third year with this model, we have made great strides in improving our staff's
professional skills and establishing a nurturing environment for the children we are
here to serve.
During the past year, three of our Family Specialist couples have been
certified as professional practitioners of the Family Home Model of Care. The
process of becoming certified is extremely difficult, requiring many hours of

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

classroom training; in-home observations by our psychologists, consultants and
Director of Children's Services; and evaluations by consumers, including the
children for whom the Family Specialists are held accountable, the children's
school teachers, and their families. More importantly, it is a continuous process
of review. Re-certification is required every year, and only after a Family
Specialist couple receives their re-certification are they entitled to consideration for
a merit pay increase. Failure to become re-certified after a number of attempts is
grounds for severe disciplinary action.
To date, the increased professionalism of our staff has led to marked
improvements in the lives of the children we serve. Most of our children are
gaininga betterunde rstandingo fwhat"fam ily"really means, and because ofthis,
our children are learning to respect one another. That respect has translated into
improved behaviors, not only at home, but in the classroom as well. This in tum
has led to improved academic performance and heightened self esteem. As a
further sign of the success we are enjoying with our new model of care, at the
conclusion of the annual survey conducted by the California Department of Social
Services, our licensing analyst rewarded us with a deficiency-free report.
An additional refinement of our child care program during the past year
was the implementation of improved assessment methods for children applying for
admission. As a direct consequence of the Fratemity'soverwhelmingendorsement
of the Board's recommendation to open the Home to all deserving children within
the jurisdiction, we made it a priority to establish assessment tools that would
ensure only appropriate children were admitted to the Home. By appropriate, we
mean children who can benefit from the model of care we employ, and who are
judged by our professionals and staff to possess the capability of positively
influencing our overall community. To date, our new assessmenttools have served
us well.
At the close of the past year there were 25 children in residence at Covina.
In addition to those in residence, our Director of Children's Services was in the
process of conducting assessments on five young people. As our reputation for
serving non-Masonic as well as Masonic children grows, we expect our census to
increase dramatically. Our new fiscal year budget provides funding for 35
children, or a 40% increase over last year. If in fact we have 35 children in
residence by year end, we can all share a sense of pride in knowing that our great
fraternity has provided much to the many, who are all too familiar with the least
in life.
Similar to the children's side of our campus, our adult home experienced
a year ofrefineme nt and limited expansion. The overall census for the adult home
remained on par with last year, but the character of that census continued to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

351

change. With the average age of our residents climbing to 86 years, the nature of
our care continued to move in the direction of assisted living.
Assisted living care can best be described as personal care required by
elders who are unable to independently provide for their own activities of daily
living. Assistance in dressing, bathing and ambulating, as well as assistance in the
administration of a resident's centrally stored medications are common
characteristics of this level of care. Despite the quasi-medical nature of assisted
living care, state regulations do not require licensed medical personnel to
administer to assisted living residents. As an example of our commitment to
quality care however, we employ licensed vocational nurses around the clock,
seven days per week. These highly qualified professionals are assisted by certified
nurse assistants, and the entire program at Covina is regularly reviewed by a
Medical Director and our licensed Director of Adult/Health Services.
By the end of this past year, over one-half of the adults residing at Covina
were receiving some type of assisted living service. This tremendous escalation
in demand caused us to expand our Assisted Living accommodations to include the
Beachwood building in addition to the existing Ashwood building. We have also
taken the step of re-licensing our entire campus as a non-ambulatory facility,
thereby allowing us to provide Assisted Living care throughout the entire facility,
should the need arise.
Because of the success we have enjoyed with our Assisted Living
program, manage111entrecommended,and the Board approved, the construction of
a new building designed to provide an improvement in our care delivery service.
Known as our Assisted Living complex, the new building will be centrally located
within the adult community and will be connected to each of our adult residential
buildings. Housed within the building will be our nursing staff; medical facilities
such as examination rooms, therapy rooms, and a dental office; and dining and
activity rooms. At the maximum, the distance from any one of our resident's
rooms to this new complex will be half what it is to our main adult complex today.
It is our sincere belief that this central location coupled with the overall expansion
of building space will enhance our ability to serve our residents, and will improve
the overall quality of care at Covina.
In addition to expanded Assisted Living care, the Covina Home applied
for, and received, the necessary licensing to provide hospice care to its residents.
For those terminally ill residents who choose the hospice care option, it will no
longer be necessary for them to receive their hospice care outside their home. Our
new licensing, togetherwith our newly establishedrelationship with Citrus Valley
Health Partners, will allow our residents to remain in their homes, near their
families, while they receive the palliative care offered by the hospice service. To
date, six residents have chosen the hospice service offered by the Covina Home,

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and the residents and their families have been extremely pleased with the care
provided.
As I hope you can see from this report. it was indeed a busy year at the
Covina Home, but one that was different than those of the recent past. We
deliberately slowed the pace of change a bit in order to allow ourselves the
opportunity to refine the innovative programs we introduced just several years
earlier. That pause has served us well, and we now look forward with renewed
optimism to the challenges that confront us in the new millennium.
It would be misleading if I did not mention that in addition to the
important programs we refined during the past year, we also had quite a bit of fun
around here. We hosted many events to celebrate our Centennial year of service,
including an Easter egg hunt, which attracted in excess of 200 children; a
Children'sday celebration, which included every game imaginable, as well as the
antics of those world famous Shrine clowns; and our children had the special treat
of vacationing on the east coast where they visited such noteworthy sites as
Colonial Williamsburg, Fort Sumter, South Carolina, Cape Canaveral Space
Center, and Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida.
Our adults even got into the swing of things this past year. Thanks to the
generosity and flexibility of Mount San Antonio College, the College conducted
water color painting classes on our campus. Many of our residents participated in
the classes and were enthusiastic about the success of the program. In fact, the
program was such a success that in September, 1998, our campus will become a
satellite school for the college. In addition to our own seniors, seniors throughout
the nearby community will be attending classes at our Home. This will be a
wonderful way for our senior residents to make new friends, and in the process, it
will allow the outside community to better understand why we think Freemasonry
is something very special.
I would be remiss ifl did not thank you, the members of the Fraternity,
who make all of these good works possible. Not only are we at the Home thankful
for your financial support, we are equally grateful for your personal interest in our
Home.

Children Residents
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998

I receive calls throughoutthe year asking if it would be an inconvenience
if the caller were to stop by to learn more about the Home. Let me assure you that
your visit will never be inconvenient for us. A key part of our mission is to make
sure that you understand how we are serving the needs of our residents. By
acquiring this knowledge, we know you will feel pride in your continuing support,
and you will be better prepared to explain to those outside the Craft what
Freemasonry stands for. Working together, we will most assuredly succeed in
making our Homes and Freemasonry even better in the future.

Boys
Andrew Sharp
Cory Lindeman
David Boobar
Devin Pitts
Jam es Watson
Jeffery Canizares
Joel Beck
Joey Madeira
Joseph Boobar
Rene Hernandez
Stephen Cody Pitts
Stephen Meyer
Steven Martin
Timothy Canizares
James Thorpe

Age

Girls
Amber Mischel
Brittaney Madeira
Crystal Guerrero
Danielle Mischel
Gayle Boboar
Jennifer Gillingham
Jessica Sandoval
Kristina Madeira
Sabrina Kruger
Katina Pavlidis

Age

Corey Martin
Dallas Phillips
Darrell Montoya
David Sarot
Felecia Ehlers
Gilbert Serna
Jamie Liebert
Natalie Rodriguez

12

14
17
16
12
17
IS
9
10
18
IS
8
16
II
13
18

.

12
8
10
IS
IS
17
12
II
IS
IS

16
18
18
12
14
IS
16

353

Lodge and Number
Downey United No. 220
Buena Ventura No. 214
Alhambra No. 322
Antioch Brentwood No. 17S
La Puente No. 446
Glendale No. 368
University No. 721
San Marino No. S88
Alhambra No. 322
Not Determined
Antioch Brentwood No. I 7S
El Dorado No. 26
Antioch Brentwood No. 17S
Glendale No. 368
Claremont No. 436

Birthdate

Lodge and Number
San Dimas No. 420
San Marino No. S88
Norwalk No. 31 S
San Dimas No. 420
Alhambra No. 322
Pasadena No. 272
Not Determined
San Marino No. S88
Not Determined
Claremont No. 436
Reunited With Family
Antioch Brentwood No. I 7S
Whinier No. 323
Acacia No. 243
Santa Ynez No. 701
Golden Gate No. 30
Upland No. 419
Home No. 721
San Dimas No. 428

Grade

01/31/84

7

01/26/81

11

06/09/82

9

OS/18/86
06/01/81

6
10

06/IS/83

9

06/23/89

4

06/09/88

3

03/18/80

II

02/17/83

9

08/20/90

2

08/19/82

9

09/01/87

s

OS/30/8S

7

06/04/80

11

Birthdate

Grade

02/10/86

6

11/29/80
03/10/88

2
4

07/23/83

9

06/IS/83

8

03/26/81

11

10/30/86

7

08/0S/87
I0/2S/83

3
8

12/16/82

10

12/21/8S

6
10

12/0S/81
02/0S/80

12

03/31/80

12

07/IS/8S

7

06/2S/83

7

09/02/82

9

08/13/81

10

354

355

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Daysha Shunn

18

Graduated From High School
San Fernando No. 343

06/04/80

12

Lilly Crawshaw

18

Alhambra Progressive #322

06/27/80

12

Lodge & Number

Adm. Date

Birthdate

Westchester No. S72

04/14/97

02109104

Borcher, Emma

Arcadia No. 278

OS/12/93

06/04/03

Brekke, Betty

Table Mountain No. 124
Wisdom No. 202

11/26/90

10/20/09

02/19/92

08/17/10

Women
Booher, Katherine

Brussa, Alexandra

Adults Currently in Residence
June 30, 1997 - June 30, 1998

Consuelo No. 32S
S.W. Hackett No. S74

01/13/90

10/12/1898

Cardella, Berenice

OS/13/93

09/09/11

Conner, Sarah
Daniell, Margaret

San Marino No. S88
La Mesa No. 407

12103/97

09/0S/12

06/18/98

07/08/08

DeBerry, Elaine

Burke, Mildred

Men

Lodge & Number

Adm. Date

Birthdate

Anderson, Jeanne

Point Loma No. 620
Glendora No. 404

03/30/9S

11/01/19

DeJong, Johanna

South Pasadena No. 290
Boron No. 822

01/08/96

04/17/12

Dey, Florine

Alhambra No. 322

12/13/97

11122106

Table Mountain No. 124
San Marino No. S88

11/26/90

06/0llOS

Fillmore No. 291

06129/98

01/01/08

12103/97

10/06/IS

Duncan, Elizabeth
Eckland, Angeline

02/24/17

OS/21198

10/0S/12

Erickson, Margaret

Hollywood No. 3SS
Las Palmas No. 366

01/02/91

Hollywood No. 3SS
Boron No. 822

11/26/91

11/06/19

OS/14/96

04/19/10

07/08/07

01/02191

12123113

Los Angeles Harbor #332
Phoenix No. 178

06/26/93

Hollywood No. 3SS

French, Ruth
Gaberdiel, Elizabeth

06/0S/91

Hollywood No. 3SS
East San Diego No. S6 l

08/13/93

06/2S/IS

Gill, Vivian

Normal Heights No. 632

04/18/94

10/02109
10/19/17

03/03/9S

07121/07

Heumann, Ruth

04/19/16

06/22198

09129119

Hoppert, Patricia

West Valley No. 611
Redondo No. 328

Ol/2S/94

Anaheim No. S33
Normal Heights No. 632

09101190

01113/2S

04/18/94

OS/17/12

Azusa No. 30S
Glendora No. 404

OS/31196

09114/1899

Ashcraft, Virgil
Brekke, Wallace
Conner, Will
Cummings, Ray
Delong, Dirk
Eckland, Gerald
Erickson, Carl
Finch, William
Gassett, Stephen
Gill, Allen

OS/26/98

12113/19

OS/14/96

OS/03/21

Hoppert, Harold

Perris No. 411

12120/94

08/30/11

Jackson, Lillian
Kabisch, Norene

OS/18/98

03/20/14

Markham, Herbert

Triangle Palms No. S 12

11/11/93

08/24/04

Keith, Virginia

Silver Gate No. 2%

08/1 S/97

08/26/17

Morris, Harold
Phillips, Reuben

North Hollywood No. S42
International City No. 389

09/27/97

02114/06

Kemp, Villa

I l/22/9S

10114/01

03/20/96

OS/IS/14

OS/24/93

07/09/09

Prater, Floyd

Palm Desert No. 826

02/23/96

03/07/08

02/26/0S

Old West No. 813
Morning Star No. 68

04117/96

02/23/12

Granada Hills No. 378
Yucaipa No. 726

10/08/96

Randall, John

Lee, Florence
Llwellyn, Frances
McPartland, Martha

Hemet No. 61 S
El Dorado No. 26

10/23/96

10/23/12

04/28/97

03/21/18

Mills, Zella

06/13/97

08109/lS

Old West No. 813
Reading No. 2S4

07/26/93

03/18/13

Mooney, Alta

Alturas No. 248
Anchor No. 273

10/31190

OS/31/08

OS/13/93

OS/29/14

Page, Marie

OS/03194

03/08/18

San Marino No. S88
Perris No. 411

12/12197

06/06/16

Papke, Eva

Point Loma No. 620
Metropolitan No. 3S2

11127/91

08/27/11

02123/96

08113/IS

Phillips, Martha

International City No. 389
Palm Desert No. 826

03/20/96

08/10/11

02123/96

10/01111

OS/09192

03/17/08

Randall, Ruth

E. Whittier Wayfarer #776
Mt. Baldy No. 81S

06/27/9S

09/19110

Redhead, Gladys

Morning Star No. 68

04/28/97

09/14119

Rensen, Araminda

Old West No. 813
Redondo Beach No. 328

07/26/93

OS/16/17

10/24/92

11/03/03

08/02/93

03/21/16

Schenck, Zella

Loyalty No. S29
South Pasadena No. 367

04/29/92

11116/20

Scholl, Blanche

Huntington Beach No. 380

06/29/91

OS/22109

Redhead, Frank
Rensen, Serafin
Riley, Roland
Rockwell, Jack
Suarez, Philip

Prater, Lillian
Women

Lodge & Number

Adm.Date

Birthdate

Ammons, Miriam

Consuelo No. 32S

09129194

03/08/09

Anderson, Beverly

Point Loma No. 620
East San Diego No. S6 I

03/30/9S

10/0S/22

01/26/93

10/28/07

04/12/94

02/27/10

Bell, Ellen

South Pasadena No. 290
Crossroads No. 696

04/22/92

03/29/07

Bixby, Louise

Garden Grove No. SOS

OS/lS/92

06/17127

Blabon, Naomi

Oceanside No. 381

03/IS/90

11/15/1897

Angle, Julia
Asquith, Elianore

Prinz, Marian

Richey, Myrtle
Rosenthal, Lydia

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

357

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA

Women Admitted
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998
Average Age 85 Years

Birthdate

Women

Lodge & Number

Smith, Margaret

Consuelo No. 325

12/16/96

03/28/11

Suarez, Ester

Perris No. 411

02123/96

02/23/18

Sudano, Rosanna

Burbank No. 406

01/09/90

04/09/04

Velzy, Rosadel

Rim of the World No. 711

01/23/93

02/03/07

Wark, Josephine

Hollywood No. 355

09/12/96

02/08/19

Name

Lodge and Number

Adm. Date

Birthdate

Age

04/12/94

05/18/11

Conner, Sarah

San Marino No. 588

12/03/97

09/05/12

85

08/07/93

08/27/11

Daniell, Margaret

La Mesa No. 407

06/18/98

07/08/08

89

DeBerry, Elaine

So Pasadena No. 290

05/26/98

12/13/19

77

Dey, Florine

Alhambra No. 322

12/13/97

11/22/06

91

Duncan, Elizabeth

Fillmore-Santa Paula

06/29/98

01/01/08

90

Kabisch, Norene

Glendora No. 404

05/18/98

03/20/14

84

Keith, Virginia

Silver Gate No. 296

08/15/97

08/26/17

79

Wertz, Virginia
Woods, Arline

Adm. Date

Tuolumne No. 8
Arcadia No. 278

Deceased
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998
Name

Lodge and Number

Adm. Date

Birthdate

Blabon, Naomi

Oceanside No. 381

03/15/90

11/15/1897

Brussa, Alexandra

Wisdom No. 202

02/19/92

08/17/1910

Jackson, Lillian

Azusa No. 305

05/3I/96

09/14/1899

Residents Relocating to Union City
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998

Kemp, Villa

Hemet No. 615

11/22/95

10/14/1901

Lee, Florence

El Dorado No. 26

05/24/93

07/09/1909

Name

Date

Mills, Zella

Alturas No. 248

06/13/97

08/09/1915

Bixby, Louise

12/15/97

Mooney, Alta

Anchor No. 273

10/31/90

05/31/1908

Heumann, Ruth

09/15/97

Prater, Floyd

09/15/97
09/15/97

Morris, Harold

North Hollywood No. 542

09/27/97

02/14/1906

Randall, John

Old West No. 813

04/17/96

02/23/1912

Prater, Lillian

05/22/1909

Redhead, Frank

10/28/97

08/12/1915

Redhead, Gladys

10/28/97

Scholl, Blanch
Suarez, Philip

Huntington Beach No. 380
Perris No. 411

06/29/91
02/23/96

Men Admitted
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998
Average Age 83 Years

Rensen, Ariminda

08/14/97

Rensen, Serafin

08/14/97

Riley, Roland

03/25/98

Residents Relocating to Other Facilities
July 1, 1997 - June 30, 1998

Name

Lodge and Number

Conner, Will
Cummings, Ray

Adm. Date

Birthdate

Age

San Marino No. 588

12/03/97

10/06/15

82

Hollywood No. 355

05/21/98

10/05/12

85

Gassett, Stephen

Anaheim No. 533

06/22/98

09/29/19

78

Morris, Harold

No Hollywood No. 542

09/27/97

02/14/06

91

Respectfully submitted,

Rockwell, Jack

San Marino No. 588

12/12/97

06/06/16

81

Dale Ankney, Administrator

No Residents Relocated

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE

years. It show that the brethren who are dedicated to supporting the Homes realize
that its needs grow every year, just as our own needs, and those of any other
activity.

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers and Members of the Grand
Lodge. Brethren: I am happy to report to you a very successful year for your
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund for the fiscal year that ended June 30, 1998. If
you paid close attention to the latest issue of the Ca/ifornai Freemason you will
have seen a three page listing of your Brethren who contributed at least $100 to the
Fund during last year. In the next issue you will see an even larger list of those
who contributed between $50 and $100. It is gratifying to recognize that over three
thousand of our Brethren are numbered in this distinguished group. The reported
numbers of those major contributors this year was over twice the number for last
year. This is a significant accomplishment.
Because of our declining membership, we have seen, during the past few
years, a steady decrease in the total dollars received annually into the Endowment
Fund. This year, however, there was the possible indication that the trend may be
reversing. Whereas previous years have dropped as much as ten percent below the
year before, this year's decrease was only one half of one percent! I certainly hope
that this represents a renewed interest in the support for our Homes, and a
regeneration of the dedication that caused the Homes to be created l 00 years ago.
It is time that the contributions begin to increase instead of decrease, at least to
keep up with the growth of inflation.
Total gifts to the Endowment Fund last year were as follows:
Wills & Bequests

$2,267' 772.58

Contributions through Lodges

1,008,780.42

Through United Way

7,877.39

Undesignated Gifts

7,118.00

Memorial Contributions

3,815.32

Total Gifts

$3.295 363 71

There are a few significant things about the giving pattern to this major
Masonic activity that are worthy of note. First, the average contribution for the
Grand Lodge overall (that is total giving divided by total membership) was $10.15
- a five percent increase over last year. The average among actual contributors
was $28.13. That latter number has increased by over 50 percent in the last ten

359

The negative part of the picture, however, continues to be that the
percentage of California Masons making any contribution to the Homes decreases
every year. This year only 36 percent of us participated in this important charity.
That is a pretty small representation. I often wonder why that is. Perhaps the
reason is that the brothers who recognize the significance of the Endowment Fund
are either passing on or not able to participate any more. Perhaps we are not
educating our newly-raised brethren to the importance of their support to the
Homes. If that is true, then I must challenge each one of you to return to your
Lodges and make a significant effort to pass the word along. The Masonic Homes
of California, that fantastic facility that is taking care of our needy brethren and
their wives, and helping us as Masons to fulfill our charitable obligation, absolutely
depends on ~ to give it the resources needed to continue its outstanding efforts.
I now want to give you some interesting news that will make it easier, and
hopefully more attractive, to support the Homes Endowment Fund. We have set
up a system whereby donations can be made by credit card. You can make a taxfree gift to the fund, and earn frequent flyer miles at the same time! Your Lodge
Secretary will have the necessary information. There are new envelopes available
to use for direct, credit card gifts. I encourage you to take advantage of this new,
modem, twenty-~rrst century method to fulfill your Masonic duty.
We have had a pretty good year, and I trust that next year will be even
better. I challenge each of you to renew your dedication to this weighty
responsibility. For what you have done, and what you will do, I thank you, the
Endowment Board thanks you, the Grand Master thanks you, and every resident
of the Masonic Homes thanks you with all of their hearts.
Respectfully submitted,
W. Bruce Pruitt, Chairman
Milton M. Abbott, Jr.
Billy N. Bowles
Douglas P. Burton
Carl R. Delaney
Donald A. Franke
Paul I. Greenwood
Charles A. Grossman
Daniel P. Halstead
Darrel E. Hunter

Donald R. Bell
Miles H. Bresee, Jr.
Melbourne L. Clark
Michael A. Fechner
Meredith M. Gayler
Richard M. Griffin
Richard L. Haggerty
Ira R. Herring
A. Lester Hutchison

360

Richard W. Jeanson
Allen F. Kelman
Keith D. Liddle
Thomas W. Magee
Kenneth G. Nagel
Lucien T. Ong
Eugene R. Perkins
Joseph H. Ross

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bruce D. Johansen
Sam L. Levin
Donald W. Lindenau
John M. Morrison
Galen E. Niedenfuehr
Allen J. Palmer
J. Norman Roberts
Lauryn H. Taylor

361

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:

Most Worshipful, Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters, Past Grand
Officers, Distinguished Visitors, members of the Grand Lodge and my brethren.
It has been my pleasure and honor to have served as the elected President
of the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Foundation, and I extend my
thanks to each of them for their confidence in me and for their dedicated service
to our fraternity .

The Board meets quarterly, twice in the Covina Home and twice in the
Grand Lodge Office, in order to fulfill the mission of the Foundation: to support
the youth of our country as they strive to become productive citizens.
The Foundation has made the following expenditures this year:
4.

5.
6.

7.

8.

$10,000 to assist the National Masonic Foundation in the
expansion of the Masonic Student Assistance Program
throughout the United States and we are proud of M :. W :.
William Stovall who is a member of the National Foundation.
$2,500 to each of the four youth groups for use in their
Jeadership training.
Certificates of Recognition and $ 1,000 checks to each of the five
"California Teachers of the Year" to be used in their respective
school districts as they wish. These presentations were made in
Sacramento by our Grand Master with the intent that awareness
of our fraternity's involvement in public schools through the
Masonic Student Assistance Program and our Scholarship
Program could be made to the State Board of Education.
$500 checks and certificates to each school hosting a
cornerstone ceremony. These were presented by our Grand
Master to the principals of the schools to be used for the
improvement of the schools' programs.
As you are all aware, the cost of a college or university
education continues to increase and many more students would
not be able to attend without financial assistance. I am pleased
to report your Foundation assisted 231 young adults in their
pursuit of knowledge. Twelve C.E. Towne Scholarships of
$10,000 were presented this year. An additional 58 awards of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

362

9.

10.

$2,500 were presented at high school graduation awards
programs. The total of new scholarships presented was
approximately $295,000. One hundred forty-eight $2,000 or
$10,000 awards were presented to students returning to school
for their second, third or final years of eligibility. The total
value of this year's awards was $668,400.
The Masonic Student Assistance Program (MSA P) continues to
be a most viable part of our education program. This year 425
educators from 98 school districts participated in our training
sessions. This brings the total number of educators trained to
1,311 representing 371 schools or districts in our state. As a
result of this program, districts report that approximately 9,000
students have been referred for assistance. It is not surprising
that educators continue to praise our fraternity for its dedication
to serving the youth in our schools. Due to the encouragement
of our Deputy Grand Master, Melville H. Nahin, we will
increase the number of classes for the 1998-1999 school year to
twelve, with the number of booster classes from 2 to 4. This has
been made possible by the generosity of our Masonic Homes of
California Board of Trustees who have agreed to allow us to use
the Covina Home for our training without cost. The Board of
Trustees of the California Masonic Foundation would like to
thank M :.W :. Stanley Cazneaux and his Board for their support
and express our sincere thanks to Dale Ankney and his staff for
their untiring efforts to make our program run smoothly. We are
grateful for the hours spent by the members of the Public
Schools Committee by serving as liaisons between the Lodges
and the schools with teams in their areas. They have been very
instrumental in public relations in their communities. I invite
you to visit our display on "G" Floor and read some of the
responses from the school teams. It will help you realize the
value of your contributions to insure the success of the
educational system of California.
This year the Foundation embarked on the funding of a new
project called "KIDS" or Child ID Program. Three computer
systems were purchased at a total cost of$29,378. In addition,
all expenses incurred in the use of the equipment has been paid
by the Foundation. Be sure to see the program in operation on
"G" Floor.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

363

My brethren, the success of these programs is directly related to the extent
to which your fmancial support is given. We now sponsor programs for children
from kindergarten through four years of college. We can be proud of the
community service we are currently giving and we need to do all in our power to
cause this service to grow in order to meet the needs of our young pepple.
Remember what R:.W:. David Decker said last year, "Today's actions are
tomorrow's legacy." The future of our country, the freedom of future generations,
the legacy of hope to leave this world are expressed in the Foundation's motto:
An Investment in Our Country's Future Through Education
Respectfully submitted,
Donald A. Nielsen, President
David R. Azcarraga, Vice President
Wayne L. Butterbaugh
Larry A. Coffin
Edgar L. Friedman
Richard F. Locke
FrankLoui
Dan R. McDaniel
Thomas G. McKinney
Melville H. Nahin, DGM
David Francis Philips
Melvyn B. Stein
Michael W. Stovall
Dan H. Wasson
Robert E. Winter

364

365

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE

Right now I would like to have the Board members present to please stand
for introduction. Vice President, Lowell Daniels; Clerk of the Board, Lloyd
Clayton, Trustee; Sean Foran, Trustee; C. Ray Whitaker, Trustee; John Argue,
Trustee; Henry W. Coil, Jr., Advisor to the Board; and G. Thomas Melugin,
Advisor to the Board. In addition, each year the Junior Grand Warden, Senior
Grand Warden and Deputy Grand Master are also voting members of the Board by
virtue of their office.

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand
Masters, Distinguished Visitors, and my brethren all.
It is with a great sense of pride and appreciation that I stand before you
today, as this will be my last annual report as President of your California Masonic
Memorial Temple Board of Trustees. I have been on the Board seven years with
the last five of those years as your President. By California Masonic Code law I
must step down. Not only as President but also off the Board completely. But fear
not my brethren our Deputy Grand Master has already see to it that I shall be heard
from again from a different direction.

As you will hear about shortly from Nob Hill Masonic Management, we
have jointly entered into an agreement where Nob Hill is taking over the normal
wear and tear items of the building. ADA upgrades that were funded by CMMT
are almost completed. The new meeting room where the old library and museum
used to be that was funded by CMMT is almost completed.
The primary purpose of CMMT, as I see it, is now to look to long term
capital expenditures. Things such as $300,000 boilers that are 40+ years old.
Things like $85,000 compressors that are also 40+ years old, or the $750,000
elevator. The list goes on and on. So there was a definite need for this mutual
agreement between the two entities. Without it we would still be spending our
time fighting fires instead of preventing them.
Part of the joint agreement was a new lease arrangement with a cap on the
lease payments that NHMM pays to CMMT. There are several reasons we agreed
to this. Many of which wil be explained by NHMM's report on the fair wear and
tear part of the agreement. The other, of course, is to allow more funds to flow into
Grand Lodge each year. The cap on the lease also allows for a modest 4% or so
increase each year. With the cap less our usual expenses plus already planned
projects we will still be able to put a little aside each year for capital expenditures.
I might mention that one project that is still ongoing is the feasibility study
of cleaning and or restoring the beautiful mosaic in the lobby. We have had several
professional people involved in looking it over. Brother Doug Scott, our Chief
Financial Officer, is heading up the project.
I would be remiss ifl didn't mention Brother Kevin Tuck and the job he
has done with our newest gem on top of Nob Hill, The Henry Wilson Coil Library
and Museum. It truly is a magnificent edifice. It is a showcase for Freemasonry
just as it was planned to be.

My brethren, yes I may be the President and be in the spotlight, but let me
tell you this, it is these hard working brethren that make things happen. One
person cannot make things happen. It takes a team approach. If I may borrow the
definition of TEAM from our Prince Hall Brethren, Together Each Accomplishes
More. Brethren, this team has worked together for over 5 years. Look around you
my brethren and see if Together Each "HAS" Accomplished More.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to the office staff on the third
floor. Teena, Pam, Kimberly, Gloria, Judy, Brother Mark Johnson, as well as all
the rest of the staff, have done an exemplary job of meeting our every requirement.
Very Worshipful John Cooper has picked his staff well!
To all the Past Grand Masters that I have served under, it has been both
a privilege and a pleasure to work with all of you. Thank you all for your support.
Most Worshipful Grand Master Anthony P. "Tony" Wordlow, on behalf of the
Board of Trustees and myself, we thank you for allowing us to serve this Grand
Jurisdiction of California.
Respectfully submitted,
Francis A. Russell, Jr., President
Lowell E. Daniels, Vice President
John A. Argue
David C. Decker, JGW
Melville H. Nahin, DGM
C. Ray Whitaker

J. Lloyd Clayton
Sean N. Foran
Alvin J. Weis, SGW
Henry W. Coil, Advisor
George T. Melugin, Advisor

366

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
NOB HILL MASONIC MANAGEMENT, INC.

Auditorium & exhibit hall revenue increase by . . . . $315,000 (or20%)
Garage revenue increased by ................. $109,000 (or 11%)

367

Retained earnings increased by ............... $195,000 (or 54%)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
As a preface to Nob Hill's formal report it is important for you, our
stockholders, to know that the Temple Board (owner's of this center) and Nob Hill
( the operators of this Center) enjoy the power of a shared vision mutually
developed That shared vision briefly stated is" .... to do everything necessary
and required to prepare The Masonic Center for another forty or more years of
service to Freemasonry." Because of this shared vision it is nearly impossible to
report the activities of one without including the activities of the other. As an
example, later when I report to you concerning the ADA work you should be
aware that the Temple funded the work and Nob Hill either performed or
administered the entire project. When, two organizations (The Temple and Nob
Hill) have a shared vision mutually developed the accomplishments of each
contributes to the success of the other. In this instance the real beneficiary is
neither organization, but rather, as it should be, California Freemasonry and you
my brethren its members.
As President and on behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to
present the sixth annual operating and financial report for Nob Hill Masonic
Management, Inc. (Nob Hill). This report is different in content and scope from
all other reports presented during the Annual Communication because Nob Hill is
the one and only for-profit entity owned and operated by this Grand Lodge. Nob
Hill was established to operate the California Masonic Memorial Center's
auditorium, parking garage, exhibit hall and various rental properties under terms
of a lease with the California Masonic Memorial Temple. This report deals with
the operationsofNob Hill forthe fiscal year just completed, July 1, 1997 through
June 30, 1998, and will cover operations with limited financials. As you are
aware, full, complete and audited financial statements for Nob Hill are provided
together with all other Grand Lodge financial reports by the Grand Treasurer and
published in the Annual Proceedings.
Having spent most of my working life in a publicly traded corporation I
am well aware that truly outstanding, across-the-board record performance is as
rare as it is exciting. And I am both excited and gratified to be able to report both
record revenue and record profit. How successful was fiscal 1997/1998?

Record financials reflect only a part of this past year's overall success.
About halfway through the past fiscal year Nob Hill assumed responsibility for all
Fair-Wear, and Tear expenses connected with the Masonic Center. In doing so
Nob Hill established a Five (5) Year Fair-Wear and Tear Project Schedule.
The budget and commitment was for a minimum average annual
expenditures of $100,000. As can be expected with all such programs the first
year or two call for the largest expenditures. By the end of fiscal year 1998-1999
these special projects are expected to cost in excess of $300,000. Obviously to
generate the required funds we expect to spend-down a large portion of the
$195,000 in retained earnings reported to you, a moment ago.
Before I address this special category of expenses, I would first note that
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) settlement we reported to you last year
caused us to delay nearly all of the Fair-Wear and Tear Project work until the ADA
work was substantially completed. I would also note that the ADA work itself
cost us an estimated three months of bookings in order to allow time for design and
engineering, permits, construction and clean-up all as needed to meet or exceed the
ADA requirements. How fortunate it was that last year's extradorinaryand record
performance prov1ded the funds needed to carry us over what would have been a
difficult period in our history. Because of the extensive scope and considerable
impact of the ADA work (which cost the Temple over $350,000), I would like to
highlight a few specific ADA work items. As I do so, those lodges who own
Masonic Centers and similar facilities rented to the general public may want to
consider what work, if any, they may need to undertake to comply with ADA
requirements. As you are aware from previous Nob Hill reports our ADA work
was fully defined as a result of a legal settlement. Without such guidance most of
us find the ADA requirements difficult to identify, define and understand. Our
advice based on extensive experience is to retain, at the earliest possible date, one
or more qualified experts: Architects, Consultants and Contractors, familiar with
ADA compliance.
Now to the specific ADA work we have undertaken here in the Masonic
Center:
I.

Accessible seating in the front of the Auditorium (required us to
level this area, create seating for 10 wheelchairs, with permanent

368

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

369

companion seats and place standard seats on removable skids for
replacement when not needed for handicapped seating);

•

stainless steel renovation and renewal of the elevator doors on
levels l & 2

2.

Accessible seating in the rear of the auditorium for 6
wheelchairs, (required leveling of entry aisles and of
surrounding areas with similar companion seats and skids);

•

refinish terrazzo floors in the lobby and on the stairway to Gfloor

•

recover all concourse benches

3.

Accessible seating for 16 wheelchair locations in the balcony
(on the same basis as the main floor and in addition it was
required that we cut and remove wing wall sections for each
wheelchair placement);

•

new carpet in the elevators

•

renovation of the kitchen

•

back-lighting the magnificent lobby mosaic & lighting the
memorial statement above the grill gates including a special spot
to light the Grand Lodge Seal over the main entrance to the
auditorium

•

stainless steel and bronze renovation and renewal of the main
entrance grill gates

•

repainting garage walls, elevator lobbies with new signage and
graphics

•

re-lamping the garage for improved visibility

•

update and expand security system in garage

•

upgrading the production sound equipment

•

and finally the creation of meeting rooms on "G" floor through
.the installing of sound proof operablewalls (now under
construction with renovation paid for by the Temple and
furnishings by Nob Hill)

4.

Construct accessible rest room on the balcony level;

5.

Provide 44 easily accessible seats (where the arm on the aisle
can be lifted for easier access);

6.

Install an additional 36 hearing assisted devices;

7.

Redo all signage and install kick plates for the main entrance
grill gates.
Redo front entry railings to meet new code (not in effect a year
or so ago when we first installed);

8.
9.

Install wider/modifiedentr}r doors to the auditorium to conform
to guidelines;

10.

Modify and expand handicap parking in the garage.

This work eitherrequired or lead us to other renovations or modifications
to maintain the physical appearance and function of the facility. (i.e. new carpeting
throughout the auditorium and concourse and aircraft aisle strip lighting on
dimmers).
As the ADA work was being finalized the, Fair-Wear and Tear Projects
were given top priority. All of these projects involved substantial improvements
to the public areas and were specifically directed toward two goals: to promote
profit generation on the one hand and enhance Freemasonry's public image on the
other. This special category of work undertaken by Nob Hill included but was not
limited to:
•
•

wall covering in the concourse
painting concourse ceiling, balcony foyer ceiling and adjoining
hallways

•

marble cleaning of all exterior and interior walls

My brethren, a great deal of work has been undertaken and accomplished.
To appreciatethe full scope ofall the work, outlined in this report, you truly need
to walk around the Center. When you do so, we believe you will agree that the
symbol of Freemasonry in California, The California Masonic Memorial Center,
atop Nob Hill, has never shined brighter.
I have every reason to believe that this past year and the current year taken
together, will have established many records which will be difficult to match let
alone exceed. But be on notice, that the dedicated employees of Nob Hill have
every intention of ensuring that the current accomplishments are just another
milestone in the quest for ever greater records of achievements. As but one
example, the current year's budget increased payments to the Temple and Grand
Lodge from $450,000 to $510,000, while reinvesting substantial sums in the FairWear and Tear Projects detailed in this report.

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Finally, none of this would have been possible without a truly outstanding
Nob Hill stafflead by Jim Willers, Executive Vice President and General Manager,
and Terry Hobson, Assistant General Manager. At your convience and before this
Communication closes please take a moment to express appreciation to one or
more of the staff for all their efforts on our behalf. Each and everyone of the staff
is dedicated to the vision we all hold for this Center and we, the Directors
gratefully acknowledge their individual rolls in the success of Nob Hill as
measured by the success to date of the shared vision mutually developed
The Directors of Nob Hill wish to thank our Grand Master, Anthony P.
Wordlow, and you my brethren, our stockholders, for your continued support and
confidence in us and for affording us the opportunity to serve this great and good
fraternity.
Respectfully submitted,
Warren J. Blomseth, PGM, President
Donald B. McCJary, Vice President
David C. Decker, JGW
W. Bruce Pruitt

Verl B. Lobb

APPENDIXK

373

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE
COMMI TTEE ON CHARTE RS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
It has been a privilege to serve on the Committee on Charters for the past
six years and as Chairman for five of those years. During my years of service two
new lodges have been instituted and chartered. Starting in 1992, the Charters
Committee was asked to oversee consolidations so that the proper procedures were
followed and in most cases we have been able to accomplish th is objective. There
are a few cases where the consolidation had been almost completed before we were
informed and in at least one case it was necessary to delay action because the steps
toward consolidation had not been taken in the proper order and necessary
information had not been furnished. The Inspectors have been asked to inform us
of any pending consolidations and this has helped.
Due to a difference in interpretation.my report of 1997 shows a different
number of consolidations completed from that of the Grand Secretary in the
Proceedings. I have therefore revised my records to show the correct numbers. I
had used the date of approval whereas the Grand Secretary used the actual date of

consolidation.
I therefore submit the following statistics:
Lodges in the process of consolidation at October 13, 1997
Consolidation in process of which the Committee was
notified subsequent to October 13, 1997

12

Total in process during the year

28

Consolidations completed and approved

15

Consolidations discontinued

8

16

23
Consolidations pending as of October 14, 1998

5

Again, my personal thanks, as well as that of the Committee to the
personnel in the Grand Secretary'soffice for their cooperation and especially to our
Assistant Grand Secretary who has kept me informed of the approvals by the
Grand Master. Also, my thanks to the several Grand Masters who have seen fit to
reappoint me to this committee for the past six years. I extend my best wishes tot

he new committee chairman and trust that he will receive the same cooperation as
I have.
Respectfully submitted,
Harold M. Hand, Chairman
James Matthews, Jr.
Vandell C. Owen
Arthur Pasquinelli
William J. Schlichting
Daniel J. Thom
Donald D. Updegraff
George R. Wiech

Richard S. Andrews
Louis G. Carsner, Jr.
Charles A. Cooper
Haskell L. Goodman
James Jarnagin
Jerald Kirsten
Verl B. Lobb

375

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

374

REPORT OF THE
COMMITTE E ON CREDENTI ALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
The Credentials Committee is pleased to present this report of registrants
at the I 49th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
Of the 412 chartered lodges, 360 lodges are represented (87%).
The total registration is recorded as follows:
Grand Lodge Officersd

27

Past Grand Masters

20

Past Grand Officers

5

Masters

249

Senior Wardens

215

Junior Wardens

182

Elected Representatives

29

Past Masters

354

Inspectors

70

Board Members

41

Committeemen

107

Secretaries

97

Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions

5

Grand Lodge Officers of other Jurisdictions

6

Past Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions

2

Master Masons

169

Master Masons of other Jurisdictions

31

Grand Total as of October 13, 1998

1609

Respectfully submitted,
Garrett S. Chan, Chairman
Robert Lam
Kenneth Martensen
Oliver Thomas

Kenneth Knight
Michael Mancuso
Donald Strand

REPORT OF THE COMMITTE E
ON FINANCE
Most Worshipful and Members of the Grand Lodge:
With your indulgence and that of the Grand Lodge here assembled, the
Finance Committee reports that it has reviewed and inspected all the Grand
Master's Decisions and Recommendations and the proposed Legislation before the
Grand Lodge.
Only five items, Resolution Numbers 98-07, 98-13, 98-14, 98-15 and 9817 will be reported on at the appropriate time. Otherwise, the other regular
Recommendation and Grand Master's Decision and proposed Legislation will bear
no impact upon the finances of the Grand Lodge. Therefore, In the interest of time,
our committee will not report on each individual proposal as it is presented.
Respectfully submitted,
Herbert P. Wilkins, Chairman
Russell E. Charvonia
Donald W. Finton
John R. Morris

Miguel A. Cheng
Frederick G. Kleyn III
V. Allen Winter

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE

Respectfully submitted,
R. Stephen Doan, PGM, Chairman

To the Most Worshipfal Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
The Committee on Jurisprudence serves as the legal adviser to the Grand
Master and the legal adviser to Grand Lodge when in session. The Committee
reviews proposed resolutions and recommendations to be considered at the next
Annual Communication and prepares any necessary legislation to carry out the
intent of the proponents. At the Annual Communication, it comments on the
legality of the Grand Master's decisions and dispensations and on the legal effect
of the proposed recommendations and resolutions.
After the Annual
Communication, it prepares the changes to the California Masonic Code to reflect
the legislation which was adopted.
In the Committee's view, those of Grand Master Wordlow' s decisions and
dispensations coming to its attention were legal and within his discretion. In the
Committee's view, the legislation mailed by the Grand Secretary on July 15th of
this year is sufficient to carry out the intent of the proponents, and the legislation
contained in GrandMasterWordlo w'srecommendations which he will present in
his message is sufficientto carry out his intent. We believe that each piece of this
legislation has the legal effect set forth in it.
The legislation mailed by the Grand Secretary on July 15th of this year and
the legislation contained in Grand Master Wordlow'srecommendations require no
separate motion because they are automatically before this Annual
Communication. The presiding officer will announce the vote required for passage
of each item before discussion begins. The presiding officer will announce the
vote required for passage of each item before discussion begins. Any legislation
which does not amend the California Masonic Code or the Ritual requires a simple
majority only for adoption. Any amendment to the California Masonic Code or
the Ritual must be adopted by a five-sixths affirmative vote. If the amendment
receives a simple majority but less than a five-sixths affirmative vote, it carries
over to the next Annual Communication when only a two-thirds affirmative vote
is required for adoption.
We thank the Grand Master for the opportunity which he has given us to
serve this year.

Jerrold B. Braunstein
Richard B. Eaton
Theodore Meriam, PGM
John C. Nolan

377

Donald B. Constine
James D. Johnson
John Nelson
Robert L. Sills

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
MASONIC HISTORY
The work of the Grand Lodge Masonic History Committee during 1998
has been largely concerned with carrying out the 1984 Recommendation No. 4 of
Grand Master E. Arthur Haglund that the Masonic History Committee ... "plan the
writing and printing of an appropriate history to commemorate the 150th
Anniversary of this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge and to recommend other
possible activities." The Recommendation was approved.
At the 1990 Annual Communication, it was voted to set aside the money
to finance the publication. Because of the magnitude of planning and writing of
the proposed publication, this year, the "other activities" were assigned to another
committee.
When the History Committee was reorganized following the 1997 Annual
Communication, it was decided, following consultation with the Executive
Committee, that a collection of individual Lodge histories was not the desired
format for the publication. As a result, the Committee determined that an "issue"
oriented publication was desired. A publication is now being planned for release
early in the year 2000. It will consist of one-year write-ups of each of the years
1950 to 1999. These write-ups will be very condensed, with only one page for
each year. Living Past Grand Masters have been asked to review the year of their
presiding, and have made many helpful suggestions for additions, deletions, or
clarifications.
In addition, a series of articles on various issues that have been central to
the last fifty years are planned. Examples of these are: "Modification of
Proficiencies," "Physical Qualifications," "Formation of the Grand Lodge of
Hawaii," "Adoption of the Cipher Ritual," "Rose Parade Floats" and "Recognition
of Prince Hall Masonry." There are several other timely topics as well. In addition,
short histories of our Masonic youth groups, and Masonically related bodies, the
York Rite, Scottish Rite and the Shrine are included. Where appropriate, and
available, we will make extensive use of pictures.

378

379

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Four meetings of the full Committee have been held, two in the south and
two in the north. In addition, several meetings with one or more committeemen
present, have been held with our publisher. At the time of this writing,
negotiations have resulted in a basic agreement and a contact is due to be signed
shortly. Senior Grand Warden Alvin Weis has attended two of the meetings and
has been most helpful to the History Committee

with the Executive Secretaries of the Bureaus also participate in the work of the
Masonic Relief Association of the United States and Canada.

The four remaining Lodges of the original five involved in the formation
of the Grand Lodge of California in April of 1850, have been asked to write a short
history along the theme of"What Are We Doing Today?'
In appears at present that the publication of this new volume will be
within the funds allocated for this purpose.
Respectfully submitted,
Charles H. Alexander, PGM, Chairman
Richard Bingle
Ralph H. Head
Hugh A. Shuffleton III
Jorge Soto
R. Stephen Doan, PGM, Advisor

Richard B. Eaton
Brett A. MacDonald
William F. Sizemore
Elton L. Turner
Theodore Meriam, PGM, Advisor

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE
ON MASONIC SERVICE BUREAUS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
The Committee on Masonic Service Bureaus, serving the Grand Lodge
of California for 71 years, submits the following data as its Annual Report for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1998.
The Committee takes its directive to supervise the operations of the
several Masonic Service Bureaus within the borders of the great state of California
most seriously. These Bureaus which now number 10, extend from Sacramento
in the North to San Diego in the South. Their charge is to render assistance to
distressed worthy Brothers, their widows and orphans residing in the jurisdiction
of the Grand Lodge F.& A.M. of California. Sojourners as well as California
Masons are entitled to receive assistance when the situation requires it. The
Committee also assists the Masonic Service Association in the continuing
development of its "Hospital Visitation Program" at several of the Veterans
Administration Facilities in California. Members of the Committee in conjunction

Committee Members
The 1997-98 Committee consists of Wor. Paul Brown of San Diego, Wor.
Robert W. Meier of Los Angeles, Wor. William H. Murphy of Fresno, Wor.
George C. Hesse of San Jose and Wor. Howard J. Dumont of Elverta, who serves
as Chairman.
In Memoriam
It is with heavy hearts this committee reports the loss of Committeeman
Paul Brown. He was called to that house not made with hands on May 16, 1998.
There are few who will pass by this way as good and noble as he.
Executive Secretaries
The Executive Secretaries of the 10 Service Bureaus who serve our
fraternity deserve special recognition for the long hours that are required to
perform the duties required of the office. The full spectrum of their duties cover
such items as: answering questions from the general public (about Masonry);
tracking down those Brethren that have lost touch with their home Lodge;
communicating with the member Lodges regarding Masonic funerals,
investigationsand dissemination of information regarding charlatans who wish to
defraud a Masonic Lodge and tracking the financial condition of the respective
Bureau. To these Brethren, this Committee expresses its' deepest gratitude.
Bush Masonic Relief Inc.
Bush Masonic Relief Inc. is the primary source of funding for the three
Service Bureaus (Los Angeles, Long Beach & San Gabriel Valley) in the greater
Los Angeles area. This fund which provides a majority of the funds for these
Bureaus, is the result of very careful investment by the trustees of the fund. This
Committee wish to acknowledge the hard work of the Trustees, Wor. Bro. A.
Bruce Ivie, Very Worshipful Herbert P. Wilkins, Past Grand Treasurer of this
Grand Lodge and the Right Wor. Bro. Mel Nahin who is currently serving as our
Deputy Grand Master.

381

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Committee Meetings

Blood Bank

This year the Committee held one informational meeting for the Executive
Secretaries of the southern portion of the state. The meeting was held at the
Pasadena Scottish Rite Center on Saturday, April 18, 1998. The purpose of the
meeting, as in years passed, was distribution and explanation of the several report
forms required to put together the annual statistical analysis. This year's analysis
is detailed at the end of this narrative. A meeting of the Executive Secretaries for
the northern part of California was not held as a cost cutting measure. The
distribution of the annual report forms required by this Committee was via U.S.
Mail.
The Committee encountered two items that were not resolved during this
fiscal year. The first was a hold over from the preceding two years, that of
consolidation of the Bureaus in the San Francisco Bay Area. Many of the member
Lodges were of the opinion that loss oflocal control and having this consolidation
pushed upon them was unfair. The Most Worshipful Allen B. Gresham asked for
a meeting to be held on July 12, 1997 in which the member Lodges could
participate in an open discussion. Most Worshipful Gresham moderated the
meeting and ended it with a promise to seek an amenable solution to their
concerns.
In March of 1998 the Grand Secretary, John L. Cooper III, Assistant
Grand Lecturer of Division I, Edward P. Margherio and the Chairman of this
Committee, met at the offices of our Grand Lodge in San Francisco. The Very
Worshipful Cooper and Worshipful Margherio proposed that the business of the
San Francisco Service Bureau be handled by two "sub" offices. One would be
located in Oakland(to handle the affairs of the old East Bay and Southern Alameda
Bureaus) and the other in San Francisco. The offices would be located at a
Masonic Lodge with a qualified Brother from each area to perform the duties of
Executive Secretary. The funds for the operating expenses would be from two
sources: Per Capita taxes from the member Lodges and the income generated by
the funds held by the San Francisco Bureau. This proposal has been approved by
the Most Worshipful Anthony P. Wordlow.
The second problem emanated from the Central Valley Bureau. Hanford
Lodge No. 279 joined the Central Valley Bureau in January 1997. In September
1997, the Lodge voted to withdraw from the Bureau citing their reason( s) for such
action as "... no services or visits were afforded Hanford Lodge." This Committee
rejected their request as the reasons given were not of a substantial nature to
warrant "good cause" as required by the California Masonic Code Section 28020.
This matter has been put in the hands of the Grand Master and this Committee
awaits his decision.

Four of the Service Bureaus provide and maintain a Blood Bank. The
Bureaus which provide this service to our Fraternity are: Sacramento, San
Francisco, Bakersfield, and Central Valley (Fresno).

380

Uniform Compacts
Uniform Compacts, which serve as a written agreement between the
Masonic Lodge and the local Service Bureau, were finalized for the following
Lodges:
Orange County, Yorba Linda No. 469
San Diego, Black Mountain No. 845
Conclusion
This Committee sincerely appreciates the support it has received from the
Most Worshipful Anthony P. Wordlow, the elected and appointed corps ofofficers,
and the staff of the Grand Lodge office in San Francisco. Recognition is also given
to those special Masons who give of their time to act as Officers of the Masonic
Service Bureaus. Last, and of course not least, this Committee extends its greatest
admiration and appreciation to those ten Master Masons who serve this Fraternity
as Executive Secretaries of their respective Service Bureaus.

.

Respectfully submitted,
Howard J. Dumont, Chairman
Paul Brown
William H. Murphy

George C. Hesse
Robert W. Meier

.....
oc
N

RECAPITULATIO N OF SERVICE BUREAU OPERA TING EXPENSES
JULY 1, 1997-JUNE30, 1998

Bureau Name

Saloria
E..c.Sec:

Rent

Print
Office

P~one

Sapplla

"Aul.

Up11

Puking
Mileage

Poatqe

....

Ta1.e1

Health

Fed/Stole

Audit

Ot~er

Totol

'"Cl

Central Valley

1.200.00

0.00

338.90

167.24

64.00

204. 17

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

1,974.31

~m

Long Buch

7,670.00

4,682.00

839.38

673 .01

225 .00

0.00

775.00

2,234.63

775 .00

351.63

18,225.65

0

Los Angeles

66,040.00

9,096.00

1.435.00

1,700.00

2,700.00

2,660.00

2,972.00

5,308.00

1,000.00

32,008.00

124,919.00

<mngcCo.

1,500.00

600.00

460.00

120.00

175.00

0.00

0.00

300.00

20.00

0.00

3, 175.00

Sacramento

2,400.00

0.00

275 .00

100.00

48.00

200.00

0.00

426.00

0.00

200.00

3,649.00

'Tl
....j

San Diego

3,600.00

0.00

240.00

180.00

400.00

110.00

0.00

275.00

0.00

71.00

4,876.00

~

0.00

115.87

0.00

600.00

4,729.87

3,747.00

8,659.50

1,795.00

33.230.63

161,548.83

NO REPORT

Bakersfield

m

zCl
~

0

NO REPORT

San Francisco
San Gabriel

3.600.00

0.00

350.00

0.00

64.00

0.00

86,010.00

14,378.00

3.938.28

2,940.25

3,676.00

3,174. 17

NO REPORT

Santo Clara Valley
TOTALS

MASONIC SERVICE BUREAUS
APPROVED BUDGETS
JULY 1, 1997.- JUNE 30, 1998

0
Service Bureau

Budget
'98- '99

Budget
'97 - '98

Long Beach
Los Angeles

Per Capita
'97 - '98

Per Capita
Iner I (Deer)

Total
Assets

~0

4,499.20

§
m

t""'

NO REPORT RECEIVED

Bakersfield
Central Valley

Per Capita
'98- '99

Increase
(Decrease)

1,718.59

2,249.00

(530.41)

0.60

0.60

0

17,900.00

18,705.00

(805 .00)

(I)

(I)

(I)

37,410.00

(I)

(I)

129,919.79
5,331.20

129,790.00

124,919.00

(I)

4,871.00

2,644.00

2,665.00

(21.00) '

0.60

.60

0

3,458.00

302.00

0.83

0.73

0

6,917 .56

Sacramento

3, 156.00

5,093.80

5,037.30

56.50

0.70

0.70

0

10,187.90

San Diego

(I)

(I)

9,528 .00

Orange Co.

San Gabriel

4,764.00

4,414.00

(I)

!!:::;:;
0

~

NO REPORT RECEIVED

Santa Clara
Valley
Total

(I)

350.00

'Tl

('}

>

NO REPORT RECEIVED

San Francisco

0

165,368.39

Funded by Bush Masonic Relief

161 ,145.30

6,935.91

-

203,793 .65

.....
00
.....

384

385

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
BUREAU INCOME JULY 1, 1997-JUNE30, 1998
BUREAU ASSETS- JUNE 30, 1998

Bureau Name

Per Capita Income

Total Income

0

0

0

0

-

0

g

Total Assets

NO REPORT RECEIVED

Bakersfield
Central Valley

1,685.40

1,718.59

Long Beach

(I)

(I)

Los Angeles

(1)

(1)

0

0

0

0

17,746.52

g

Orange County

2,665.00

2,665.00

2,085.02

Sacramento

3,208.00

250.00

5,362.13

San Diego

5,004.30

5,037.30

~

8

8

~

8

-

0

0

N

N

-

0

0

~

0

0

N

0

-

0

M

....

0

0

0

0

~

;;;

NO REPORT RECEIVED

San Francisco
(1)

(I)

12,565.70

9,672.89

San Gabriel
Total

0

(1) Funded by Bush Masonic Relief

7,642 .53

!I! B
·-1:~=
0

<

=

......
"'

386

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPOR T OF THE COMM ITTEE
ON MEMO RIAL SERVIC E
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Grand Lodge Officers, Past and Former
ful
Grand Lodge Officers and Brethren, will you share with me and Worship
V.
Brothers Robert Deter, Mark Sandstrom, William Wine and the Very Reveren d
the
to
d
dedicate
Service
a
in
us
with
join
to
you
ask
Kent Armstrong, as we
memory of our departed Brothers.
From the dawn of human time, we find recorded that man has
occasionally paused from his daily labors to stop and render tribute and homage
to the memory of those who he held dear in his heart, those whose lives were
remembeed fortheir many unselfish deeds toward their fellow man. They gathered
be
to recall those whom the Source of All Light and Understanding had seen fit to
joy.
and
s
happines
peace,
in
forever
Him
with
called unto His House and to abode
And now, my dear Brethren, we come to that same time when we pause
in our work and deliberations, that we too may in this hour of sadness, reflect upon
those brethren who we have this day gathered to honor our Past Grand Master
we
Lester Stafford McElwain, and the 421 Grand Lodge members, whose Iieves
for
only
not
,
affection
with
them
er
rememb
have been privileged to share. We
those
to
n
dedicatio
ing
unbound
their
of
their labors of love, but as an example
s of
ideals to which we, as members of this fraternity, aspire. To all those member
With
Made
Not
"House
that
of
this Grand Lodge who now dwell within the portals
for
Hands", we do indeed now offer our undying gratitude for loaning them to us
recall
likewise
but
help
such a short time. Forgive me, my brethren, but I cannot
to memory thosema gnificen texempl arsofyea rs past, with whom many of us were
so profoundly influenced. That magnificent circle of men, whom we are sure,
we
welcomed with open arms and hearts into the kingdom of Heaven, those whom
ing
welcom
have gathered here this day to honor. That great circle of men, the
committee if you wish, such as Alfred Breslaur, Arthur Warren, Lloyd Wilson,
Edward Siems, Chester MacPhee, and a myriad of others. I cannot help but be sure
that they likewise smilingly and lovingly, welcomed with open arms, those many
the
ever-faithful and distinguished officers, secretaries and treasurers, together with
as
bilities
responsi
their
shired
never
who
men
d
dedicate
hundreds of faithful and
d
cherishe
many
gamer
we
them
of
all
To
.
fraternity
faithful members of our
gratitude
ed
unbound
our
express
to
te
inadequa
memories and find ourselves totally
for their guidance, love and understanding.
If our departed brethren could but speak to us, they would admonish us
so
not to weep, but remind us that we are now the custodians of that which they
their
to
dear
so
held
they
that
all
in,
believed
fearlessly expounded, defended, and

387

hearts. It is because of the efforts and contributions of our departed brethren that
for
our lodges continue, not only with the conviction of those high ideals they set
of
ood
Brotherh
"The
y
fraternit
our
of
dogma
us, but with the philosophical
Man".
As we move through this transitory life, the very change of the seasons
proves that death is not the end - no more than life ends for nature at the passing
a
of the four seasons - for we all know that it will surely spring again into
written,
have
hers
philosop
Many
season.
its
of
"newness oflife" after the passage
its
and poets have sung, of the beauty of the passing of the soul from its earthly to
Masonry
In
Jive.
to
better
how
men
spiritual glory and, in so doing, have taught
we do not attempt to teach one how to die, but rather we attempt to teach one how
d
to live, and live with love among our fellow man. This probably is best expresse
,
writings
Sanskrit
ancient
be~er than I could ever hope for - for we find among
ay
"Yesterd
words:
~ntten by a long forgotten author from the distant past, these
1s but a dream, and tomorrow is only a vision, but the today well-lived, makes
I
every yesterday a dream of happiness and every tomorrow a vision of hope."
thank you, my brethren.
Respectfully submitted,
Emile R. Laversin, Chairman
Robert Deter
William Wine

Mark Sandstrom
ng, Advisor
Armstro
V. Kent
REPOR T OF THE COMM ITTEE ON
TEMPL E PROPE RTIES AND TAXAT ION

Your Committee on Temple Properties and Taxation has continued to
emphasize that the committee is constituted to assist Temple Associations and
ee
Lodges in operating their real estate through its diverse specialized committ
ent;
managem
property
real
of
members. Your committee offers help in the areas
purchases and sales; construction, repair and maintenance; contract negotiation;
Lodges
ta~ation ~d relations between the officers of Temple Associations and
e
specializ
s
instance
with the aid of members who are familiar with, and in many
of
ce
importan
the
in, these areas in their daily vocations. Your committee stresses
conscientious management of properties while recognizing that local Temple
ent
Associations and Lodges are responsible for, and most capable of, the managem
of their real property.
Since the members of the committee are spread throughout the state, they
are able to deal with local problems or call on other committee members from other

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

locales for specific knowledge required to recommend a solution to a local issue.
It is the concertedeffortofall members of the committee to suggest or recommend,
rather than dictate, possible solutions to issues brought to their attention. In that
regard, the members of the committee have strived to be "deal makers" rather than
"deal breakers".

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON

388

Like many years in the recent past, this year has been a very active one for
the committee with many questions being asked by Inspectors, individual Lodges
and Temple Associations, and analyzed and answered by its committee members
throughout the state. Specifically, the tax consequences and treatment of the
proceeds of the sale of temple sites have been reviewed and communicated to a
number of Lodges and Temple Associations. Assistance was offered in the
documenting the legal status of Lodges and Temple Associations and clarifying the
interactive roles of Lodges and Temple Associations.

TOURNAMENT OF ROSES PARADE FLOAT

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
Your Committee is charged with the responsibility of arranging all of the
necessary details associated with entering a Masonic Float in the Pasadena Rose
Parade on New Year's Day each year. The purpose of entering a float in this
Parade is summarized briefly as follows:
l.

Freemasonry is presented to the public in a positive manner by
displaying some of our principles and accomplishments,
especially our concern for children and our charitable support in
the community. We hope that this exposure will offset the
negative perceptions of Freemasonry promulgated by our critics
and adversaries.

2.

The anniversaries of the various Masonic organizations provide
opportunities to demonstrate to the public that these groups have
long been a part of the Family ofFreemasonry, working together
for the benefit of the community.

3.

The float provides an exciting opportunity for our young people
to be involved in an outstanding project.

4.

The float videos which record the entire process of putting a
float in the Parade also provide some information about the
fraternity which is helpful in explaining Freemasonry to nonMasons.

The committee has participated in meetings for Inspectors, Lodge officers
and Temple Association officers by making presentations and answering questions
from the floor in each meeting.
During the year, the committee has received numerous requests for
approval of purchase, sale or renovation of Temple sites throughout the state, in
excess of $50,000 each, which were analyzed and reviewed by the Chairman for
decision by the Executive Committee of the Grand Lodge. In accordance with the
regulations established by the Grand Lodge, when requests were received for
approval of renovation of Temple sites which were less than $50,000 in total
expenditure, these requests were dealt with by the committee members individually
or by the Chairman of the committeewithoutreferenceto the Executive Committee
based upon the amount to be considered.
Respectfully submitted,
Harry G. Golden, Chairman
Larry L. Adamson
Ronald L. Hein
Richard B. Lane
Donald B. McClary
Ralph E. Newman
Allen J. Palmer

Garrett S. Chan
Frederick Kao
Thomas J. Luby
Lloyd D. Minor
David A. Poole, Jr.
Bernard R. Shepard
Wilbur H. Stevens

389

The scope of the Committee's tasks includes the selection of the float
theme, design of the float, contract negotiations with the float builder, fund raising
from members of the Masonic fraternity on a voluntary basis, liaison with the
Tournament of Roses Organization and the float builder, selection of float riders,
publicity, float decoration, food service for the decorators, costumes,
accommodation for float riders, photography and videography, design and sales of
merchandise relating to the float, and many other details.
The theme of the 1998 Rose Parade was "HAV'N FUN". The 1998
Parade coincided with the l OOth anniversary of the Masonic Homes of California,
the 75th Anniversary of the Shriners' Hospitals and the 125 1h Anniversary of the
Order of Eastern Star. Following the great public and media reception of our 1996
float depicting Humpty Dumpty, we decided that the 1998 float would be based on

391

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

another storybook rhyme "The Little Old Woman Who Lived in A Shoe". The
float consisted of a large shoe built in the form of a roller blade shoe with a roof
over the top from which smoke poured out as the shoe was careening down the
street headed for Pasadena. It encountered a skunk in the road and came to a halt
just in time with its front wheels spinning in the air. The title of the float was
"FANTASY ON WHEELS". As the float passed along the Parade route, music
was played to the tune of "The Little Old Lady From Pasadena".
The 35 foot float was designed and built by Phoenix Decorating Co.,
Pasadena at a cost of $80,000 for the float contract which includes the design,
rendering, construction, decoration materials, music, float driver, observer and
insurance. Additional Committee expenses include the entry fee of $1,000,
publicity and fund raising expenses, mailing, video production, photography,
costumes, office supplies and food for the decorators which collectively totaled
approximately $15,000. Thus the total cost of the 1998 float was approximately
$95,000.
The float was adorned with an assortment of seeds, leaves and more than
20,000 flowers, all carefully prepared and placed by a team of about 600 members
of the many organiz.ationscomprisingthe Family of Freemasonry who spent more
than 6000 hours decorating the float. Fortunately, the Masonic float was the 39th
unit in the Parade of l 05 units, ensuring that it would be shown on the national
television networks before these stations cut away to football games.
Riders on the float consisted of ten children and two "old women". One
of the ladies was Melissa Cronin, a tireless decorator of many Masonic floats, who
rode in the top of the shoe while seated at a steering wheel. The other "old
woman" was 99-year old Mrs. Mildred (Dolly) Burke, a resident of the Masonic
Home at Covina. All of the riders were dressed in roller blade safety helmets and
pads. Dolly Burke was believed to be the oldest person ever to ride in the Rose
Parade. She was the star of the Parade in many respects. The press and television
reporters spent many hours with her before and after the Parade. The Parade TV
commentators also spent much of the float's exposure time (approximately one
minute) talking about Dolly while the children waved to the very receptive
audience along the Parade route and the 500 million people viewing the Parade in
more than 100 countries around the world. The Family of Freemasonry was the
recipient of much positive publicity with the appearance of this float.

Hospitals, Scottish Rite clinics, York Rite hospitals, scholarships for children and
the Masonic Model Student Assistance Program. Unfortunately, commentators
did not cover these items completely.
The Committee felt that this float was one of the more successful floats
in terms of the viewing public's ability to recognize and be amused by the float
design and the publicity for Freemasonrythrough Dolly Burke's presence and her
lively comments.
Immediately after the 1998 Parade, work began on the selection of a float
design for the 1999 Parade. Because of some earlier rumors that several float
sponsors might not be invited to participate in upcoming Parades, we made a
conscious decision to enter a larger and more expensive float in the 1999 Parade
so that we would be in a position to be invited to sponsor a float in the 2000 Parade
which is expected to be an elaborate affair. The 1999 float is 55 feet in length and
is designed as a replica of the original Hunt Club horse-drawn carriage with eight
riders. The riders will be prominent people, including some Masons, who have
played important roles in the history of the Rose Parade, the city of Pasadena,
government and entertainment industries. The design has been strongly endorsed
by the President of the Tournament of Roses. The total outlay for this float will be
$132,000.
Fund raising for this program continues to be a problem as voluntary
contributions from Grand Lodges, Constituent Lodges, other organizations and
individuals have been steadily declining each year. Contributions during 1997 for
the 1998 float amounted to only $38,500. Fortunately, in 1995, Grand Master
Charles H. Alexander offered his support through the adoption of a Grand Master's
gift pin program proposed by Affmity Marketing Associates. This program was
very successful and enabled the Float Committee to fulfill its financial obligations
by drawing on some of these funds. Grand Master Allen B. Gresham continued
the pin program during his term as Grand Master and thus ensured that the
Rainbow girls would not be disappointed. We are especially grateful to Grand
Master Alexander and Grand Master Gresham for their vision and assistance in our
hour of need. Unfortunately, some problems occurred with the program for the
current year and no funds were obtained for the float program. However, by
drawing on the previously mentioned funds, we will be able to meet our 1999 float
obligations.
The future of the float program is uncertain at this point. After seven
years, it is quite apparent that the voluntary contribution method of fund raising has
run its course both in California and in other Grand Lodges and associated
organizations. We hope to be able to sponsor a float in the year 2000 to help
celebrate the beginning of a new century and, hopefully, the beginning of a turnaround in Masonic membership.

390

In the words of the nursery rhyme, the Old Woman " had so many
children, she didn't know what to do, so she fed them some broth without any
bread, then whipped them all soundly and put them to bed". We took advantage
of this wording to draft a TV script which pointed out that Masons know what to
do with children - treat them with love and care. The script then covered the
support that Masons provide to children, through the Masonic Homes, Shrine

393

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

The Float Committee has produced a video of each year's float, including
the design, construction and decorating of the float and the television coverage
during the Parade. In addition to providing a record of each float for historical
purposes, these videos serve as useful tools for informing friends and the general
public about various aspects of the Family of Freemasonry. We also furnish a
complimentary copy of each video to every Grand Lodge in North America for use
in their jurisdictions.
The Committee wishes to thank the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of
California for permission to invite some of the children and Dolly Burke to be
riders on the 1998 float. The assistance of staff members at the Covina Home in
procuring safety items for the riders, providing transportation to the Parade with
the Homes bus and arranging lunch for the group after the Parade is also greatly
appreciated.
Again, the Committee gratefully acknowledges the contributions of many
individuals and organizations in the success of the program. In addition to the
Lodges and other organizations which contributed financially, we wish to thank
members of Al Malaikah Shrine RV Club who, for several years, have stationed
their motor homes at the beginning of the Parade to keep the riders warm and
nourished prior to boarding the float, Pasadena Temple which also made
arrangements for facilities in which to hold the New Year's Eve party for the youth
decorators, Pasadena Scottish Rite for the use of their meeting facilities, Southern
California Research Lodge for assisting with the distribution of float flyers through
their regular mailings to members, members of the York Rite and Shrine who
provided food service to the decorators for more than a week and, last but not least,
the approximately 600 volunteer decorators who turned out to add their touch to
the beauty of the float. We also are indebted to Mrs. Melissa Cronin for her
untiring efforts to coordinate the youthful decorators, to Mr. and Mrs. William
LaValley for coordinating the adult decorators and to Mrs Saundra Coe for her
devoted work in handling the decorator registration and sale of float memorabilia.

The Float Committee is convinced that the continual presence of the
Family of Freemason ry in the Rose Parade is a cost-effective way to inform the
public about some aspects of Freemasonry. It is the only Masonic public relations
program in existence which reaches a potential audience of almost half a billion
people in more than 100 countries throughout the world. Through this !)oat
program, we hope to increase the awareness of the fraternity and its good works,
but we also recognize that the float program is only one part of a series of efforts
needed to attract high quality members in the future. We hope that our efforts meet
with your approval. We are always receptive to suggestions for improving our
performance and enhancing the image of the fraternity in the community.

392

Our special thanks are also extended to Grand Master Wordlow, Grand
and the members of the California Masonic Family Forum for their
officers
Lodge
entin this very important program of public relations. We
encouragem
support and
assistance of the Grand Lodge office staff.
periodic
also appreciate the
The Chairman also gratefully acknowledges the dedication and support
of the Float Committee for their many hours of voluntary work.
members
the
of
receives no budget appropriation from the Grand Lodge, most
Committee
Since the
et
of the out-of-pock expenses for meetings, etc. are borne by the Committee
members.

Respectfully submitted,
Stanley L. Channon, Ph.D., PGM, Chairman
LeRoy Bartels
Frederick T. Alexander
George H. Cronin
Robert C. Coe
David H. Farlee
Vernon M. Dandridge
Thomas C. Letcher
Donald A. Hull
Richard K. Pumerantz
Herschel P. Mazer
Raymond B. Rosenbaum
JackM. Rose
Mark E. Schrock
Gaylord V. Roten
H. Douglas Lemons, PGM, Advisor
REPORT OF THE COMMIT TEE
ON TRIAL REVIEW

To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge, F.& A.M ofCalifornia:
Since the 1997 Annual Communication there have been referred to your
Committee on Trial Review eleven completed trials, and one application for
restoration from expulsion. Two restorations from suspension were considered at
the Lodge level. These are reviewed by the committee and the Grand Lodge only
when exceptional circumstances are present. Our log shows eleven completed
trials, four matters disposed of before trial, seven matters pending but not
completed , one petition for restoration from expulsion and two cases in which
Lodges have restored suspended members.
Your committee has reviewed each of the Trial Records numbered 2383,
2398, 2404, 2405, 2406, 2408, 2410 and2412 and finds that in each case there was
substantial compliance with the procedural requiremen ts of our Constitution and
Ordinances, and the result is supported in the record of each case, and that there are
no miscarriages of justice.

394

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The committee feels compelled to highlight Trial Record No. 2406
included in this report. This trial involved a Past Master of Pasadena Lodge No.
272 who was found Guilty of embezzling property and stealing funds from the
Lodge and its Temple Association, and was expelled. This was a very complicated
and difficult trial. The committee was very impressed with the well-documented
trial transcript and the outstanding conduct of the Trial Master and others
connected with conduct of the trial. A newly made Master Mason, Charles
Carmody, attended the trial. He heard of the difficulty in reporting the trial. He
volunteered to record it, and when the trial was over he volunteered to prepare the
transcript and did so. Your committee on Trial Review commends the Trial Master
and other Brothers involved in conducting the trial in Trial Record No. 2406 for
their outstanding effort on behalf of Grand Lodge.
Your committee therefore submits and moves for adoption the following
resolution:
"Resolved, that in each of Trial Records numbered 2383, 2398, 2404,
2405, 2406, 2408, 2410 and 2412 the judgment and penalty imposed be
and are ratified, affirmed and approved."
Resolution ADOPTED.
Members of this committee are lawyers, judges, and law enforcement
officials. As such they have seen in court all manner of human foibles. They
expect in Masonry to see the rare serious crime, either of violence or greed. But
it is almost as disturbing to see charges of petty bickering, of Lodge politics, or of
brother against brother by words or conduct, which result in Masonic charges,
seemingly filed as a tool for revenge. Most of these should not have been elevated
to Masonic charges. Often they have a very divisive effect upon the Lodge. Each
of us can and should do something to prevent the offended feelings, the hurt, the
jealousy, which cause some of these things to arise.
The members of this committee are grateful for the opportunity to use
their professional skill for the benefit of Masonry. We thank the many people who
participate in the task of providing Masonic justice.

395

Trial Record No. 2219
This is an application for restoration from suspension.
Because the Lodge was notified that the penalty was suspension, it
properly entertained the application of the accused for restoration and approved it.
A restoration from suspension need not be reviewed by Grand Lodge.
However, this is an unusual case.
The accused was charged and found guilty. It was recommended that he
be suspended. The Trial Review Committee in 1985 recommended to the Grand
Lodge that the penalty be raised to expulsion. The 1985 Proceedings do not
indicate the result of the ballot. The vote on the recommendation is not recorded.
The Grand Secretary's office wrote the Lodge that the penalty was fixed at
suspension. However, the Grand Secretary's log show expulsion. The Junior
Warden from Vitruvius Lodge was present in Grand Lodge for the first time. He
was quite impressed with everything, but particularly the action of Grand Lodge
concerning a matter from his home Lodge. He remembers discussion from the
floor and the vote which denied the change recommended and left the penalty at
suspension. A Trial Review Committee member for that year also re members that
Grand Lodge denied the recommendation of the committee on Trial Record No.
2219.
So that the record may be clear and unambiguous, we make this report.
The record should show that the penalty in Trial Record No. 2219, was fixed in
1985 at suspension. Thus, the action ofVitruvius Lodge No. 145 in restoring the
accused is in accord with Masonic law.
We therefore move the adoption of the following resolution:
"Resolved that the records of this Grand Lodge shall show that the
penalty in Trial Record No. 2219 was fixed in 1985 at suspension."
Resolution ADOPTED.

Trial Record No. 2330
This is an application for restoration from expulsion. The accused was
found guilty of taking Lodge funds from a refreshment box; of taking money from
an elderly Brother, now deceased, who had given him a power of attorney; and of
two counts involving his conduct with Rainbow Girls. He was tried in 1991 and
found guilty. Because of the state of the record, the 1991 Annual Communication
reversed the verdict and remanded the matter for a new trial. He was tried again

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in 1992, was again found guilty and the 1992 Annual Communication upheld the
verdict and the penalty of expulsion.
He has now applied for restoration from his expulsion. He gave notice of
his intent to the Lodge of which he had been a member at the time of his trial and
expulsion, though he failed to include a copy of the intended application as
required by California Masonic Code Section 33 l 00. The Lodge received at least
two letters opposing restoration and heard oral objections to the restoration. The
Lodge voted 17 to 0 to disapprove of the application for restoration.

The evidence shows that the accused, while a trustee of a trust, did
transfer $I 00,000 to his own personal account from which he used monies to
purchase personal items, including an automobile for himself; further, that the
accused received interest payments payable to the trust, but deposited same into his
own personal account. The accused admitted that he made a "mistake'', but he said
that the principal, before her death, had verbally gifted the funds to him. The
accused further testified that he later returned the funds to the estate.
As a trustee, the accused owes a fiduciary duty to the Principal which was
admittedly breached by the accused, and is a very serious Masonic offense
involving moral turpitude.

396

In a letter accompanying his Application for Restoration he says:
"I have now spent six years on the outside looking in. I still see a good
organization. I very much want to be a part of Masonry now and in the
future.
I am truly sorry that I accepted the money from (Brother X) - now
deceased. I can assure you this will never happen again with him or any
other person.
As for the charges concerning the girls, there is nothing I would ever
knowingly do to hurt or embarrass one of any sex. Actions such as this
are not part of my nature."

397

We do not concur with the penalty of suspension and believe that this case
requires the greatest penalty and recommend that the penalty be raised to
expulsion.
Your committee therefore submits the following resolution:
"Resolved, that in Trial Record No. 2407 the findings of the
Commissioners be affirmed and approved except that the penalty is raised
to expulsion."
Resolution ADOPTED.

The Committee on Trial Review recommends that the Application for
Restoration in Trial Record No. 2330 be denied, and moves the adoption of the
following resolution:
"Resolved that the Application for Restoration in Trial Record No. 2330
be denied."
Resolution ADOPTED.

Trial Record No. 2407
A member of Alhambra Lodge No. 322 was charged with unmasonic
conduct in two specifications. The specificationsalleged Breach ofFiduciary Duty
and Embezzlement.
The accused was properly served with the charges and pied "Not Guilty".
A Trial Master was appointed and Commissioners duly charged with hearing the
evidence. A Trial resulted in a finding that the accused was guilty of both counts
and penalty was fixed at suspension.

Trial Record No. 2409
In Trial Record No. 2409, the accused, a Past Master, was charged with
the unlawful taking of money from three brothers whom he was coaching on their
proficiencies . In this case the accused fraudulently promised the victims that they
would double their money in less than 60 days if they invested with him.
The fraudulent solicitation claimed that a company, which would be based
in Palm Springs under the name of Chase Mortgage Company, was about to go
public. This company in fact, did not exist; therefore it could not issue any stock
certificates for anyone to purchase. Additionally neither the company, nor the
accused were registered and/or authorized to engage in the sale of securities. The
three victim brothers, along with others in the community, were defrauded by the
accused by means of buying stock in this nonexistent company.
Masonic charges were filed and the accused pied guilty, a Masonic Trial
was held and the accused was found guilty on all specifications with the penalty
set at suspension.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

398

Your committee on Trial Review thanks all concerned for their efforts in
However, because the accused is a Past Master and was the candidate
trial.
this
of his victims that he clearly breached his Masonic obligation and
three
for
coach
used his position of trust and confidence in committing this Masonic offense
against newly raised members. This is a serious transgression that demands the
most serious penalty under our law.
Your committee therefore submits the following resolution:
"Resolved, that in Trial Record No. 2409 the findings of the trial be
affirmed and the penalty raised to expulsion."
Resolution ADOPTED.
Trial Record No. 2411
In Trial Record No. 2411, a member of North Hollywood Lodge No. 542
was charged in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los
Angeles with l) shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, and 2) assault with a
firearm . There were additional allegations regarding Count l that the charged
crime is a serious felony, that the defendant personally used a firearm, and with the
intent to do so inflicted great bodily injury. There were additional allegations
regarding Count 2 that the defendant personally used a firearm, and with the intent
to do so defendant inflicted great bodily injury. Factually, the case involved an
altercation in a parking lot which escalated to the point where the member shot
through a car window causing the driver of the vehicle to suffer both gunshot and
glass wounds as he was retreating from the scene. After a jury trial, the member
was found guilty of both counts and all special allegations. Further, after an
unsuccessful appeal to the California Appellate Court, the member was remanded
to state prison.
Masonic charges were filed. They alleged substantiallythe same offenses
as had been charged in the Superior Court. Upon being properly served with the
charges, the member pied not guilty and requested a Masonic Trial. The Trial
Commissioners found the member not guilty. In the usual case this would be the
end of the story. However, after a complete and thorough review of the entire trial
record, your Committee on Trial Review is convinced that the evidence in this case
requires a reversal. California Masonic Code Sections 330 l 0 and 33030 provide
authority in an appropriate case for reversal of a not guilty finding in a case of
gross violation of Masonic law by the Trial Commission.

399

The record reveals irregularities in the presentation of the evidence and
the order of argument allowed by the Trial Master. Further, it appears from the
record that there is a substantial likelihood the Trial Commissioners were not
properly instructed on the issue of moral turpitude and were thus inadvertently
misled in their duty. Your committee believes this was a gross violation of
Masonic law, which has caused a miscarriage of justice and requires the reversal
of this not guilty finding.
The committee therefore submits the following resolution:
"Resolved, that in Trial Record No. 2411, the findings of the Trial
Commissioners be reversed and set aside and the matter be remanded for
further proceedings and retrial with the following instructions to the Trial
Master. In any retrial of these charges, the Trial Commissioners shall be
instructed that the crimes of 1) shooting an occupied vehicle, and 2)
assault with a firearm are crimes which involve moral turpitude as a
matter of law."
Resolution ADOPTED .
Respectfully submitted,
Donald R. Fretz, Chairman
David R. Doan
Thomas C. Letcher

Charles W. Foster
Duke D. Rouse

REPORT OF THE COMMIT TEE ON
U.S. CONSTIT UTION OBSERVA NCE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
The committee has had a very active year in terms of Constitution
Commemorations and related activities. In July, the Grand Master issued a
proclamation directing all constituent Lodges to "participate in an appropriate
program to commemorate the signing of the Constitution during the month of
September". His theme was "We the People - The Constitution, an Indelible
Document of Freedom". The Grand Master's proclamation was supplemented by
a letter from the committee chair providing and referring to materials that would
assist Lodges in their commemoration programs. A Constitution Week Planning
Booklet, which was originally prepared for the Constitution Bicentennial, was
provided each Lodge and offered ideas in planning local programs. Copies of the

401

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Si~ature Newsletter of the National Constitution Center were disseminated, which
contained information on commemorative activities. Also provided were
facsimiles of the U.S. Constitution, the Bill of Rights and the Declaration of
Independence. A Report of Activities form, sample Certificates of Recognition
and a directory of U.S. Constitution Observance Committee members were also
provided.

Worshipful Master John Gates of Georgetown Lodge No. 25 reported a
program which included patriotic music, poems, members portraying George
Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln.

400

Since the U.S. Congress was in the process of considering a constitutional
amendment that would protect our Flag from acts of desecration, a separate
memorandum was distributed which encouraged Lodges to display the U.S. Flag
and participate in the programs of the Citizens Flag Alliance. A sample Certificate
entitled "Show Your Colors, America" was provided, encouraging Lodges to
nominate organizations and individuals for recognition for their outstanding
citizenship and activities in displaying the U.S. Flag. A large number of Lodges,
individuals and public spirited organizations were nominated to receive and were
issued the "Show Your Colors, America" certificates.
The committee received many reports of Lodge Constitution Observance
Programs. Many of these activities were conducted strictly within the Lodges and
entailed speeches or patriotic programs. Other reported programs were more
elaborate, involving several Lodges, as well as other Masonic and non-Masonic
organizations.
Noteworthy among these programs was the program at San Bernardino
Lodge No. 178 which included a colonial style dinner, an enjoyable Masonic play
on the Constitution with participants in costume, and speeches by Senior Grand
Warden Weis (in colonial costume) and R:.W:. Alvin portraying Benjamin
Franklin. Many other members and participating groups were garbed in colonial
attire, including Past Grand Master Allen Gresham.
The Constitution Observances at the Knotts Berry Farm Independence
Hall continue to attract public attention. Again, several Lodges, the National
Sojourners, Sons of the American Revolution, representatives of the U.S. Armed
Forces and Masonic Youth Group Flag Teams participated in this elaborate
commemoration, which included comments by costumed speakers representing
delegates to the Constitution Convention. Committee members Bill Sizemore,
Gene Collins, Ron Markarian and Chris Christoff all participated in the program.
Brother David Francis Philips entertained the attendees with several patriotic
songs.

Lodges, such as Nevada No. 13, co-sponsoreda Community Constitution
Day Parade and Celebration that included a Civil War Encampment and Battles,
a "gold country duck race", outside concert, ceremonies re-enacting the signing of
the Constitution and a pancake breakfast. Participating organizations included the
49er Rotary Club, Nevada City Fire Department, Re-enactors of the American
Civil War, Shrine units and the world famous Watsonville Marching Band.
Worshipful Master Hall states, "it (the program) grows each year".
The committee continues to sponsor a booth during the Annual Grand
Lodge Sessions. Constitution Observance materials, including articles, quizzes,
examples of programs, pocket Constitutions and other related materials, are
available to Grand Session attendees. The committee is indebted to Brothers Brad
White, Roger Torrey and Russ Roberts, among others, for setting up and staffing
the booth.
As a follow-up to the very successful and popular 501h Anniversary of
World War II program, the committee distributed advance copies of informational
material and applications for Commemorative Community status for the 501h
Anniversary of the Korean War, which will be celebrated nationally during the
years 2000-2003. Participating Lodges will receive a Certificate from the U.S.
Department of Def~nse designating them as an official "Commemor~tive
Community", a specially designed 501h Anniversary flag and other educational
materials relating to the Korean War and its significance in United States history
and world events during that period.
Again, the committee salutes the many, many Lodges that marshaled their
resources to make the 1998 U.S. Constitution Observance Program a great success.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronald H. Markarian, Chairman
Bradley R. White, Vice Chairman
Allen S. Beddoe
Chris R. Christoff
Maurice R. Crosby
Ramon A. Figueroa
Douglas S. Lawrence
Robert W. Martin
Lewis L. Millett
John V. Neal

Mario Chiappe
Daniel G. Cook
Ralph C. Dills
William Kludjian
Michael Marcellos
Thomas F.J. McDuffie
Guillermo P. Munda
Jerry D. Roberts

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Russell D. Roberts
John W. Runcie II
Benjami n T. Sutherlin
Roger W. Torrey

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFOR NIA

Orren C. Rupert
William F. Sizemor e
Theodore P. Tartagli a
Stephen S. Wallace

REPOR T OF THE COMM ITTEE ON
WARDE NS' LEADE RSHIP RETRE ATS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
The Wardens' Weeken d Leadersh ip Retreat Program continues to be one
total
of the most successful program s of our Grand Lodge. This year we trained a
of
138
of 200 Senior Wardens and 139 of their ladies, 209 Junior Wardens and
in
Lodges
their ladies. We continue to provide training to fifty (50) percent of the
our Grand Jurisdiction. The following is a breakdo wn of the Retreats:
Senior Warden s Retreat , North - 98 Wardens and 79 ladies, March 6-8,
1998, San Ramon Marriott Hotel, at Bishop Ranch
Senior Warden s Retreat , South - 102 Wardens and 63 ladies, March
20-22, 1998, Crown Plaza at LAX Airport
Junior Warden s Retreat , South - 103 Wardens and 62 Iadies, May 1-3,
1988, Crown Plaza at LAX Airport
Junior Warden s Retreat , North - I 06 Wardens and 76 ladies, May 1517, 1998, San Ramon Marriott Hotel, at Bishop Ranch
The Senior Wardens Retreats were under the direction of our Deputy
built
Grand Master, Melville H. Nahin and his wife Alice. These Retreats were
A
around Brother Nahin's theme, "THE BEST OF TIMES IS NOW - WHAT
"The
WONDE RFUL WORLD". Leadersh ip training was provided in the areas of,
and
sonry
"Freema
ity",
Commun
the
With
on
Interacti
"Positive
Power to Create",
Master's
"The
1999",
in
s
Relation
"Public
s",
nication
Religion", "Commu
Respons ibilities and Obligations", "Develo ping Lodge Leadership", "If Enough
"
People Care", "Friend-to-Friend" and "Planning a Sixty Minute Stated Meeting
their
with
subjects
above
the
of
many
in
ted
and "The Gift". The ladies participa
gA
husband s and in addition covered subjects on, "Grand Lodge Week", "Plannin
ce
Assistan
student
Model
c
"Masoni
Program ", "Plannin g An Installation",
l".
Memoria
Masonic
ton
Washing
Program ", "Masonic Charities" and the "George
All of the above training was reinforc ed with Team building Exercises and Group
Reports.

403

The Junior Wardens Retreats were under the direction of our Senior
built
Grand Warden Alvin J. Weis and his lady Virginia. These Retreats were
A
NG
BUILDI
DREAM
THE
ING
"BUILD
theme,
around Brother Weis's
Search
"In
,
included
Retreats
these
in
covered
Subjects
BETTER TOMOR ROW".
Your
of Excellen ce", "Discov ering the Future", "Commu nication s", "Plannin g
Lodge",
a
of
Books
the
ing
"Review
,
Budget"
Year as Master" Develop ing a Lodge
nia
"Publicity and ~blic Relations", "Grand Lodge Informa tion Sources", "Califor
"The
ent",
Involvem
nity
"Commu
ship",
Masonic Code", "Passion for the Member
ladi~s
Secretar y as Master's Support" , "Friend-to-Friend" and "The Gift". The_
the ~
m
covered
~lso
and
participated in many of the subjects with their husb~?,s
,
Event
Good
a
own sessions subjects on, "Grand Lodge Events , Plannmg
for
"Ideas
s",
Charitie
"Organiz ation of the Grand Lodge of California", "Masoni c
n_ry:
Commu nity Involvem ent",Sen iorGran d Warden's Remarks ", and "Freem~o
Bmldmg
Today-T omorrow -2000". This training was also reinforc ed w!th T~am
_these
Exercise s and Group Reports. The Junior Wardens and therr lad1~s left
the
m
role
Retreats with a better understa nding of Freemas onry, their leadership
Lodge and how to make their Lodges successful.
Speaker s used in these sessions included Melville H. Nahin, Alvin J.
Fred
Weis, David C. Decker, Stanley M. Cazneau x, John L. Coope~, Fred Kie~,
Doan
Sorsabal, Loyal Stark, Robert Winterton, John Nolan, ~ark ?1~s~n, Da~1d
and Larry Ard. The ladies speakers included Alice Nahm, Vrrgm1a Weis, Nancy
of
Decker, Gloria Cazneau x, Marlene Sorsabal and Judy Ard. I want to thank each
these ladies for their participa tion and for an excellen t job.
In addition to the four scheduled Retreats, the Wardens' Leadersh ip
Retreats Commit tee was invited to Las Vegas, Nevada, to present the Retreat
199~.
Program to the National Masonic Renewal Task Force, on March 13-15,
this
at
ted
Many Grand Lodges from througho ut North America were repres_en
were
special training session. The training was well accepte~ and comm1~ents
made to take the training back to their Grand Lodges for unplementat1on. I exten_d
their
a special thank you to the member s of the Commit tee wh~ took time ~ut of
I
busy schedules to provide this importan t training to the National Masomc Renewa

1

Task Force.
A very special thank you is extended to Kimberl y H~gg of the Grand
Lodge office staff for the outstand ing support she has provided. She a~ways
provides quality material in a very professional manne~ for the_ Retreats. Without
y for
her expertise it would be very difficult to have the quahty that 1s so necessar
the success of the Retreats.
For myself, I want to once again express my deep apprecia tion to the
to
Grand Lodge Officers for their continui ng support of the Wardens Retreats and
Once
.
the member s of the Commit tee for their dedication to this importan t program

404

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

again, I extend to my wife Gloria, a very special thank you, for without her
assistance and long hours of work, I would never be able to accomplish all the
tasks necessary to make these Retreats successful. Her assistance and continued
support of Freemasonry is deeply appreciated.
Respectfully submitted,
Stanley M. Cazneaux, PGM, Chairman
Alvin J. Weis

Melville H. Nahin
David C. Decker
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE
ON YOUTH ORDERS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M of California:
During the 1998 Masonic Year the Youth Orders Committee has actively
engaged in a fraternal interchange with the youth orders in our jurisdiction. In
November an introductory meeting of the adult leadership of Job's Daughters,
Rainbow for Girls and the Northern and Southern Jurisdictions ofDeMolay was
held while attending the NORCAL DeMolay Convention in Sacramento. The
meeting, although brief, was productive in setting forth the committee's objectives
for the ensuing Masonic year. The annual MA YO conference with the Grand
Master, members of the Executive Committee and the youth orders adult leadership
was held in January. All in attendance contributed freely in the discussions that
centered primarily on items concerning membership and methods and programs
that would renew interest in joining organizations of the Masonic family.
In addition to the NORCAL DeMolay convention the committee chairman
and members attended the Rainbow Grand Assembly in April, Job's Daughters
Grand Bethel in June and the SOCAL DeMolay Conclave in September. As is past
years, the Youth Orders Committee presented each of the four youth groups with
$1,500 to support their leadership training programs. Throughout the year all
committeemen endeavored to attend local youth activities in their areas. These
visitations supported the committee's goal of improving the fraternal relationship
between Grand Lodge, constituent Lodges and the Youth Orders.
Two regular meetings of the committee were held. The first on March 28,
1998 and the second on May 16, 1998. The first meeting was primarily for
organization and establishing the objectives of the committee for the ensuing year.
It was emphasized for the committee members that the purpose of the committee
was to promote fraternal relations between the Youth Orders, Grand Lodge and the

405

constituent Lodges. Additionally, that a secondary role of the committee was to
identify Master Masons that would serve on Rainbow Advisory Boards, Job's
Daughters Bethel Councils and DeMolay Advisory Boards.
The May 16th meeting was spent documenting the selection criteria and
guidelines for nominating and selecting recipients of the Grand Master's Youth
Service Award. It was found that the criteria and guidelines used in previous years
were not well documented and were changed from time to time in response to
verbal inputs from various sources. The committee is continuing this task into the
1999 Masonic year and the documented criteria and guidelines will be presented
to the Executive Committee for review and approval.
To enhance the communications of the committee a Web site was created
on the Internetand linked from the Grand Lodge Web site. The Web site includes
links to the Grand Lodge home page, the Masonic Foundation, and to the Northern
and Southern Jurisdictions of DeMolay home pages. Web pages for the California
Rainbow for Girls and Job's Daughters were also established in the Web site. This
tool has proven effective as several inquiries for information related to our youth
orders were received during the year from throughout the country as well as in the
jurisdiction. Visitors to the site included a senior DeMolay from Massachusetts,
members of our youth orders asking for information regarding Masonic
scholarships and others seeking locations of our local youth groups in their
immediate area.
At this year's Annual Communication of Grand Lodge the committee set
up a booth in the exhibition hall. The committee provided handouts on the youth
orders organizations as well as answering questions from the many visitors
stopping at the booth. Additionally, a computer based color presentation was on
display during the three day period.
Your Committee on Youth Orders respectfully submits this report on its
activities for the 1998 Masonic year. We thank you for the opportunity to have
served this Grand Lodge and its elected and appointed officers, our constituent
Lodges and our Masonic Youth Orders.
Respectfully submitted,
Raymond W. Peltier, Chairman
James J. Nash, Jr.
Domingo R. Solo
Joseph A. Stouch
Daniel J. Thom

J. Dennis Conwell
Raymond E. Davies
Richard G. Dixon
W. Alfred Kelley
David Denbow, Advisor

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

409

COMMITTEES AND BOARDS OF GRAND LODGE

Commencing October 14, 1998
EXECUTIVE

Standing Committee
Melville H. Nahin (520) ............ 6500 Wilshire Blvd., 16th Floor, Los Angeles 90048-4925
Alvin J. Weis (480) ......................... 627 N. Silverado Drive, Lafayette 94549-5334
David C. Decker (419) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381 Millwood Road, Riverside 92506-5306
C. Ray Whitaker (280) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224 So. "J" Street, Madera 93637-4645

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Board of Trustees
Stanley M. Cazneaux (191)(295) President .. 840 Mark West Springs Rd., Santa Rosa 95404-1140
Warren T. Buschmann (278) Vice-President ....... 1741 Calle Catalina, San Dimas 91773-3950
Charles H. Alexander (111) ........................ 1025 W. Lindo Ave., Chico 95926-2018
Roy Anderson (180, 295) ....................... 38 Westgate Circle, Santa Rosa 95401-9014
David C. Decker (419) ......................... 1381 Millwood Rd., Riverside 92506-5306
David R. Doan (369) ......................... 12010 Alderbrook St., Moorpark 93021-3130
Victor Howard (780)(5.7)(295) .................... 530 Los Altos Ct., Santa Rosa 95403-1329
Thomas F. Joy (290) ......................... 20400 Lake Canyon Dr., Walnut 91789-3524
Ernest A. Pooleon (368) .............................. P.O. Box 2699, Covina 94722-8699
Frederick L. Sorsabal (26) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522 Teal Pond Ct., Placerville 95667
Alvin J. Weis (480) ........................... 627 N. Silverado Dr., Lafayette 94549-5334
C. Ray Whitaker (280) ............................ 224 So. "r' Street, Madera 93637-4645
Thomas C. Holm (428) Treasurer ............... 1131 Flamingo Street, Glendora 91741-2383
John L. Cooper III (467) Secretary . . . . . . . . . 543 Green Ridge Drive, #6, Daly City 94014-3480

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT
W. Bruce Pruitt (712) ..................... 14101 Manuella Rd., Los Altos Hills 94022-2019
Milton M. Abbott, Jr. (79) ........................... 2974 Eagle Ln., McKinleyville 95519
Billy N. Bowles (813) ........................... 22127 Barbacoa Dr., Saugus 91350-2224
Miles H. Bresee, Jr. (295) ............ 4286 Redwood Highway, #234, San Rafael 94903-2610
Douglas P. Burton (277) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11279 S. Fowler Ave., Selma 93662-9619
Melbourne L. Clark (103) .............................. 94 Greenbrier Dr., Oroville 95966
Carl R. Delaney (789) ............................ 2593 Sunrise Dr., Fairfield 94533-1307
Ralph Dunn (595) .................... 3166 S. Sepulveda Blvd., #5, Los Angeles 90034-4223
Michael A. Fechner (419) .......................... 1490 W. Aster St., Upland 91786-2116
Donald A. Franke (13, 117) ........................ P.O. Box 687, Dayton, NV 89403-9998
Meredith M. Gayler (476) ............................. 83-175 Avenue 55, Thermal 92279
Richard M. Griffin (719) .............................. 1256 Bolton Dr., Morro Bay 93442

410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Charles A. Grossman (380) ............. 20072 Beaumont Cir., Huntington Beach 92646-5427
Ira R. Herring (99) . . ..... .. . .... ...... .. . . ........... 1720 Jean St., Merced 95340-5237
Emmett F. Hill (297) .. ..... : ..... .......... . . 108 Riverwood Way, Dunsmuir 96025-2134
Darrel E. Hunter (111) .... .. .. .. .... . .............. . .. 4 El Cerrito Dr., Chico 95973-0603
A. Lester Hutchison (486) ........ . ...... ..... 917 Cherry Hills Dr., Bakersfield 93309-2984
Richard W . Jeanson (273) ............. . .. . . .. 17976 Pasco Del Sol, Chino Hills 91709-3956
Bruce D. Johansen (691) . . ....... . . . ..... ..... .... P.O. Box 1118, Ridgecrest 93556-1118
Allen F. Kelman (721) . .......... .. ... ......... . .. ... 20207 Stagg St., Canoga Park 91306
Sam L. Levin (529) ... . .... . .. .. .. . ......... 11145 McDonald St., Culver City 90230-5367
Keith D. Liddle (404, 428, 272) .... ... . .... . ..... 337 W. Bennett Ave., Glendora 91741-2548
Donald W. Lindenau (78) ... ... . . ... .. ..... . .. . P.O. Box 261, Mountain Ranch 95246-6974
John M . Morrison (421) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340 I Cerise Ave., Hawthorne 90250-6331
Kenneth G . Nagel (299) ....................... 2131 Briarwood Dr., Santa Clara 95051-1944
Galen E. Niedenfuehr (442) .. .. ..... . .... . ... . ... 4766 Lorraine Dr., San Diego 92115-1912
Lucien T . Ong (499) ............. . .......... . ... 1133 Derick Wy., Sacramento 95822-1034
Allen J. Palmer (463) ... ......... . .. .. ..... .. 16740 Springhill Ct., Morgan Hill 95037-4810
Eugene R. Perkins (448) .......... . ... .... .. ... 1736 Mendocino Dr., Concord 94521-1105
Fred Potter (824) . ... .. . . .............. .... . . . .. 345 Otono Court, Camarillo 93012-6822
J. Norman Roberts (670) ............... 2067-D Via Mariposa East, Laguna Hills 92653-0381
Joseph H. Ross (215) . .............. . .. .......... .. .. 1718 High St., Alameda 94501-1720
David R. Sullivan (314) ......... .... .. ........ 13381 Magnolia Avenue, #14, Corona 91719
Donald R. Taylor, Sr. ........ . ....................... 4545 Bond Street, San Diego 92109
Lauryn H. Taylor (370)(169) . . .... ................ 28 Tulane St., San Francisco 94134-1146

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

Board of Trustees
Donald A. Nielsen (380) President . . . . . . 20041 Crown Reef Ln., Huntington Beach 92646-4513
David R. Azcarraga (87) Vice-President ... . .. ....... 129 Ebbets Pass Rd., Vallejo 94589-1936
Thomas M . Boles (202) ........... . ....... .... 1761 E. Woodcrest Avenue, La Habra 90631
Wayne L. Butterbaugh (428, 357) .... 7217 Marina Pacifica Dr. N., #11, Long Beach 90803-3807
Larry A. Coffin (316) ... . ............. . . . . . . . .. .. . ... .. 2268 Almond Ave., Sanger 93657
Walter A. Eagan (123,181) .... . .... . . ..... . .. . .... 1276 Jensen Lane, Windsor 95492-9147
Richard F. Locke (190, 346) .. . . .... .... . .... . .. 1559 St. Andrews Dr., Redding 96003-9799
Frank Loui (120) .. . ..... . ................. . ... 640 Los Palmos Dr., San Francisco 94127
Dan R. McDaniel (712) ........... . .............. 1250 Petersen Ct., Los Altos 94024-5750
Thomas G. McKinney (827) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SOI Woodland Dr., Wofford Heights 93285-9625
David Francis Philips (272) ........... 522 S. Alexandria Ave., #302, Los Angeles 90020-2825
Melvyn B. Stein (35) .. .. . .. ......... . . . ...... . . . .. 2733 1st Ave., San Diego 92103-6277
Michael W. Stovall (327) ......... . .... ... . ... 272 College Park Dr., Seal Beach 90740-2504
Dan H. Wasson (209) .. ........ ... .... .. .. .. 2044 Loomis St., San Luis Obispo 93405-2118
Alvin J. Weis (480) .. ......... . . . .... ....... 627 N. Silverado Drive, Lafayette 94549-5334
Thomas C. Holm (428) Treasurer .. . .... . . . . .... 1131 Flamingo Street, Glendora 91741-2383
John L. Cooper III (467) Secretary ........ . 543 Green Ridge Drive, #6, Daly City 94014-3480

411

Board of Trustees
Lowell E. Daniels (95) President .. .. . . ... ......... .. P.O. Box 963, Sutter Creek 95685-0963
John A. Argue (807) Vice-President . ........... 3905 Mayfield St., Newbury Park 91320-4215
Ian D. Atkinson (663) · .. · . . ... .................. ..... . . P.O. Box 1152, Ojai 93024-1152
J. Ll~yd Clayton (357) ........... .... . ..... . . . 6142 San Lorenzo Ln., Anaheim 92807-4035
David C. Decker (419) · . ..... . . .... .. . . ...... .. 1381 Millwood Rd., Riverside 92506-5306
Sean N. Foran (373, 677, 528) . .. .... .. .. .... ...... 25826 Piuma Rd., Calabasas 91302-2153
Edg.ar L. Fri~dman (520) .... . ........ .. . 1825 Selby Avenue, #103, Los Angeles 90025-7615
Alvm J. Wets (480) · .......... . .............. . 627 N. Silverado Dr., Lafayette 94549-5334
C . Ray Whitaker (280) · ·. · · · ............ . ............. 224 S. "J" St., Madera 93637-4645
Henry W. Coil, Jr. (635)(259) Advisor . ...... . . .. .. 2257 El Capitan Dr., Riverside 92506-461 S
George T. Melugin (341) Advisor .. . .... . .... . .. . .... 416 Pearson Rd., Port Hueneme 93041
Thomas C . Holm (428) Treasurer ... .. . ....... .. 1131 Flamingo Street, Glendora 91741-2383
John L. Cooper III (467) Secretary .. ... . ... 543 Green Ridge Drive, #6, Daly City 94014-3480

Noe HILL MASONIC MANAGEMENT CORPORATION

I

Board ofDirectors

...

Warren J. Blomseth (SSI) President ..... Bella Oaks, 5995 Via Madrid, Granite Bay 95746-5802
Donald B. McClary (35) Vice-President ......... 2315 Caminita Estero, San Diego 92107-1522
Verl B. Lobb (325) · · ..... .. .. . .... .. .... ... .... 4163 Andros Wy., Oceanside 92056-7402
W. Bruce Pruitt (712) ................... . . 14101 Manuella Rd., Los Altos Hills 94022-2019
C . Ray Whitaker (280) · · .. ... ... . ............ . ..... 224 So. "J" Street, Madera 93637-4645
Thomas C. Holm (428) Treasurer ...... ... . ... .. 1131 Flamingo Street, Glendora 91741-2383
John L. Cooper III (4~7) Secretary .. .. .. .. . 543 Green Ridge Drive, #6, Daly City 94014-3480
Douglas A. Scott (712) Controller . .... ... ... .. 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108-2284

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

Publication Board
Ralph H. Head (352) Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 492 Scenic Dr. Santa Barbara 93103
Melville H. Nahin (520) ............ 6500 Wilshire Blvd., 16th Floor, Lo~ Angeles 90048-4925
John L. Cooper Ill (467) .......... . ...... 543 Green Ridge Drive, #6, Daly City 94014-3480

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

412

413

CREDENTIALS

ST ANDING AND SPECIAL COMMITTE ES

Standing Committee

AW ARDS AND RECOGNITIO N

Special Committee
p O Box 207 Roseville 95678-0207
Ken Kessel (222) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
M~lberry A;e., Upland 91786-2739
Glenn C. Johnson (428) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . 1 0
·
820 Sea Spray Ln., #302, Foster c·tty 94404•2443
Sidney Koss (344) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
.
Harvey Malin (42) .. . . . ..... .. .. . ....... . . 12631 El Cammo
1 #2J07 , san ff1ego 92130
Rea,

32

Kenneth D. Knight (376) ....... . ..... .. .... ........ . 1006 Muir Wy., Belmont 94002-3009
Robert Lam (120) . ....... . . ... ... ....... . .... . ..... . . 147 Anderson Rd., Alameda 94502
Michael A. Mancuso (400) .... ... ... .. ... ... ....... 2021 Lyon Ave., Belmont 94002-1636
Kenneth G. Martensen (120) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116 Creekside Cir., American Canyon 94589-3943
Thomas E. Riley III (480) . ... ... .. ...... . .. ..... . 738 Daffodil Way, Concord 94518-2342
Donald E. Strand (376) ... ... ... ... ·. .... .. 634 Emerald Hill Rd., Redwood City 94061-1149

FINANCE
CHARTERS

Standing Committee

Standing Committee
12481 Russell Ave., Chino 91710-2317
Vandell
C. Owen (301) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·
ct., N apa 94558
·
4249 Lmus
Louts G. Carsner, Jr. (93) ............. ... . .....
c~ie. C~i.no, San Clemente 92673-2707
Charles A. Cooper (357) · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . . .
· h I 95608 1108
·
(131)
6408 Rampart Dr., Carm1c ae
•
Maunce R. Crosby (520)............. ........ 435 S Curson Ave.,
#10-J, Los Angeles 90036
Haskell L. Goodman
···················
·
N
91405
James Jarnagin (666) .. .. .... . ............. .... .. ... 14714 Co~as~et St.,
Lu~~ 95242
Jerald Kirsten (256) .. ........ . . . ... . ... . .. . .......... 1726 WmdJammer. dt., 92~;6 7402
Ver! B. Lobb (325) ... ... .. .... ... .......... . ... 4163 Andros Wy., OcSeanJs1 e 95124.3702
·
· (47 9) ...........
•
Arthur A Pasqumelh
· · .. · · · · · · · · · · · 1735 Ewer Dr.• an ose
William Schlichting (788) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58876 Road 2~5, No~~o;~ :!~~
John N. Stallings (99) ............. ............. ....... 2970 Rustle ourt,S laB1 te h 90740
·
Balboa Dr., ea eac
Daniel J. Thom (327) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704
Box 67 Clarksburg 95612-0067
Donald D. Updegraff(l43) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · P.O.
'
. ob·
93405
George R. Wiech (209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621 Cordova Dr., San Luis
1spo

j7ji

v;

i.

CHILD ID PROGRAM

Special Committee

v Allen Winter (20) .. . . . . ............ . ... 10735 Sunrise Ridge Circle, Auburn 95603-6014

Eilis R Adams (293) ... .... .... ... ... ... ..... 3023 N . Fairbairn Street, Orange 92665-1604
. And
(26)
3967 Los Santos Drive, Cameron Park 95630-8601
B~n.t K·
erson
··················
mbia Drive Sacramento 95864-5353
Wilham F. Faught (58) ... . ........ . . .. ....... 701 Colu
S ' S ff
92111 3442
David L. Haefuer (620) .... ... .... . .... ... ..... 3986 Ardmore treet, an 1e.go
•
Camillo L. "Blackie" Passarelli (307) . . . . . . . . 1013. 10th Street, #4, Santa Monica 904039-42516922
44550 La Paz Road, Temecula
Ronald C. Perry (5 24) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
M land Drive, Vista 92083-3334
Mark E Pressey (671) . ..... . . . .. ... .... . · · · .. · · · · 805 ary
Orren
Rupert (448) .... ..... ............ . 1122 Kilamey Lane, Walnut Creek 945~~-~;!~
Hugh A. "Bud" Shuffieton III (2) ............. ............ P.O. Box 369, Shasta 960 •

c.

Donald W. Finton (58) ....... . ............. . 5236 Marimoore Wy., Carmichael 95608-6157
Russell E. Charvonia (214) ............. ....... 5536 N. Bryn Mawr St., Ventura 93003-2224
Miguel A. Cheng (120) . ..... . ...... . ....... 190 San Pablo Ave., San Francisco 94127-1536
Michael D.T. Sanders (254) ............. . . ....... 3064 Crossroads Dr., Redding 96003-7909
Hal G. Scott (799) .. .... .. ........ ... ... .... 4892 Mt. Bigelow Dr., San Diego 92111-2526
V. Allen Winter (20) ............. .... . .. . . .. .. . . 10735 Sunrise Ridge Cir., Auburn 95603
Horace D. Young (72, 289) .... .. ............. 34329 Corncrib Circle, Wildomar 92595-9135
Frederick G. Kleyn III (837) Advisor . . . . . . . . 11073 Plum Tree Lane, Spring Valley 91977-7047

FRIEND-TO-F RIEND

Special Committee
Harvey Mayhill (207),. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519 Mammoth Cir., Placentia 92870-4011
James E. Banta (247) ............. .. .. ......... .... . 1623 W. Saginaw Wy., Fresno 93705
Harold N. Barker (26, 43, 25) ............. ........... 2661 Larsen Dr., Camino 95709-9704
Allan Casalou (480) ............. ............. ....... 4631 Nevin Ave., Richmond 94803
David H. Denbow (479) . ... ... ... . ... ..... ...... 281 Terra Cotta Dr., San Jose 95135-2027
Edward Hernandez (666) ... .. ............. ... . .... . ... .... . 9639 Crebs Ave., Northridge
David E. Higdon (269) ............. ............. .. 1054 E. Cross Ave., Tulare 93274-2925
Louis A. Langie ( 111) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708 Magnolia Ave., Chico 95926
Paul E. McCleary (580) . .. .... ... ... ... ... ... ... 12911 Oak Knoll Rd., Poway 92064-5621
William Namahoe (428) ....... ... .... .. ..... 1709 Calle Ciervos St., San Dimas 91773-4121
Ronald C. Perry (524) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44550 La Paz Rd., Temecula 92592
Charles E. Trullinger (190) ..... .. ... . ........... . .... 17650 Flowers Ln., Anderson 96007
Alfred R. Truslow III (57) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1324 Parsons Dr., Santa Rosa 95404-2553
David C. Decker (419)Advisor ............. ..... 1381 Millwood Rd., Riverside 92506-5306
"Jerry Burk (224) Consultant .... .. ..... . ... ... ... . . .. .... . . 2312 Wild Oak Ct., Bakersfield

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES

Standing Committee
William J. Morris (120) ..... .. ............. ..... 1375 Manzanita Dr., Millbrae 94030-2851
Edward Barber (370) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1540 Valdez Wy., Pacifica 94044-4437
Donald E. Bohn (388) ............. ........ 1481 Plymouth Ave., San Francisco 94112-1242
John W. Booth, Jr. (370,1) ... .. ... .. .... ... .... .. .. 505 College Ave., San Francisco 94112

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Garrett S. Chan (136) ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
.. 786 -9th Ave., San Francisco 94118
Albert E. Crooker (370,336) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 188 Franciscan Dr., Daly City 94014
Corrado L.J. DeMartini (139, 388, 17) ...... ..... 72
Berkeley Wy., San Francisco 94131-2518
Lawrence E. Laidlaw (139) ...... ...... ..... . .. 35
Edinburgh St., San Francisco 94112-1603
Howard A. Lancer (120, 344, 136) ... . .. . .... .. . . ..
104 Elm St., #26, San Mateo 94401-2758
Richard J. Modolo (I) ..... ... .. . . . ... ... .. . 601 Tompk
ins Ave., San Francisco 94110-6146
Patrick D. Moore (344) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . 379 Shawnee Pl., Fremont 94539
Harry M. Pallas (370) ...... ...... . . . ....... .. ....
..... 270 Pope St., San Francisco 94112
Bernard R. Shepard (400). .. ....... . ...... ...... .....
1301 Drake Ave., Burlingame 94010

GRAND MAST ER'S ACHIE VEME NT AWARD

Special Committee
Paul E. McCleary (580) ...... ...... ...... ...... .
12911 Oak Knoll Rd., Poway 92064-5621
Frederick G. Kleyn III (620, 837) . .. ...... .. . 11073
Plum Tree Ln., Spring Valley 91977-7047
Donald E. Newcome (748, 178) .... . ...... ...... ...
.... P.O. Box 981, Highland 92346-0981
Madison E. Rogers (442) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 10125 Pino Dr., Lakeside 92040-3350

INSURANCE

Special Committee
Stuart A. Wright (202) ...... ...... ...... ...... . 22835
Calabash St., Woodland Hills 91364
Larry L. Adamson (369,813) . ...... ...... ...... ...
. . 24210 Bella Ct, Newhall 91321-3923
Robert H. Edwards (60) .... . ...... ...... ...... ......
. P.O. Box 1076, Quincy 95971-1076
Richard 0. Wright (256) ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
. 13675 N. Hartley Ln., Lodi 95242
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) Advisor ...... ...... ......
. 1624 McClaren Dr., Carmichael 95608

INVESTMENT

Standing Committee
Joseph W.R. Ashwill (327) .... .. ... . ..... ...... 3647
Colorado St., Long Beach 90814-2731
Joseph H. Bulllock (323, 614) ...... ...... ..... 16627
Pear Blossom Ct., Whittier 90603-3257
James F. Leggate (479) ....... . ..... ...... .... ..
... 7202 Golf Course Ln., San Jose 95139
John 0. Morris (528) ...... . .. ... .. ... . ... .......
13336 Huston, #D, Sherman Oaks 91423
Chris U. Patropulos (344, 366, 290) ...... ...... ....
6797 N. Chance Ave., Fresno 937104 533
Robert D. Peters (551) ...... ...... .. 6533 Seaview
Ave. N.W., #508, Seattle, WA 98117-2964
Loren E. Piper (494) ...... ...... ...... . ...... ....
1999 Harrison St., #1200, Oakland 94612
Richard K. Pumerantz (436) ..•... ...... ...... .....
2367 N. Ukiah Wy., Upland 91784-1335
Joe Winchell (42) . ....• ...... ... . ...... ...... . ......
P.O. Box 6628, Stateline, NV 89449

JURISPRUDENCE

Standing Committee
R. Stephen Doan (369) ....... . . ....... . ..... 6411
Seabryn Dr., Rancho Palos Verdes 90275
Richard S. Andrews (60) ...... ....•. .•.... .... . ..
. .... P.O. Box 106, Quincy 95971-0106
Ralph B. Dash (721) ....... .. ...... ...... . ..... 12812
Tiara St., Valley Village 91607-1027
Donald J. Drew (528,278) . ...... ...... ...... ....
1066 Singing Wood Drive, Arcadia 91006

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

415

James D Johnson (672) ...... .. . ...... .... . ......
... 27422 Valderas, Mission Viejo 92691
John Neison (400) ....... . ...... . . ...... ...... ....
355 N. Humbolt St., San Mateo 94401
John Nolan (178) ...... .. . .... .. ....... ... .......
. . 419 Summit Ave., Redlands 92373
Robert ·L. Sills (520) .. .... . .. . .... ....... . .. . ....
12544 Allin St., Los Angeles 90066-6718

c

LODG E SERVICES COORDINATING

Special Committee
Allen B. Gresham (178) ... . .. . ... ... . . . . ....... . 825
Vista Dr.? San Bernard~no 92405-2040
Charles H. Alexander ( 111) . ...... . .. ... ....... . . ..
I 025 w_. Lmdo Ave., Chico 95926-2018
Stanley M. Cazneaux (191, 295) .... ...... 840 Mark
West Spnngs Rd., Santa Rosa 95404-1140
Todd c. Ganos (462) ...... ...... ...... ...... .. 786
- 37th Ave., San Francisc.o 94121-3406
c. Richard Hutchinson, Jr. (247) ...... ...... ...... 8630 E. Herndo
n Ave., Clovis 93611-9001
Ronald H. Markarian (366) ...... . . ..... . ...... .....
8547 N. Calaveras Ave., Fresno 93711
Harvey Mayhill (207) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
519 Mammoth Cir., Place~tia 92870-4011
Raymond w. Peltier( 419) ...... ...... ..... . ......
.... . 6822 ~urke Ct., Chmo 91710-6206
William N. Wine (448) ..... ...... .. . . . . . ...... ....
1487 Barb1s Wy., Concord 94518-1247

MASONIC EDUCATION

Stand ing Committee
William N. Wine (448) ...... ...... ...... ...... ....
1487 Barbis Wy., Concord 94518-1247
Gordon c. Alexander (542) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13044 Hartsook St., Sherman Oaks 91423
Lee J. Baxter (588) . . .. .. . . ... . .. .. .... .... . .......
618 W. Longden Ave., Arcadia 91007
Rodney H. Davis (389) ... . . .. . .. ..... . .... .... . .
. 1803 Nipomo Ave., Long Beach 90815
Edward W. Greenberg {362) ...... ...... ...... ......
. 1600 Stokes St., #24, San Jose 95126
Mark S. Hasey (38)(110) . ...... ...... ...... ..... :
... 2-3030 E. Cliff Dr., Santa ~ruz 95062
Howard E. Lewis Ill (789) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 1130 Mosswood Ln., Dixon 95620
Kaulayaw S. Medina (283) ...... ...... ... . ... 439
Meadowbrook Dr., San Diego 92114-6131
Rollin R. Murr (501) ...... . .. . ...... ...... .... 5568
Heavenly Place, Paradise 95%9-5 219
Hartford L. "Root" Rutan (756) ...... ...... ..... ......
. 1719 West St., Concord 94521-1005
Mark R. Sandstrom (615, 334) ...... ...... ...... .. 239
E. Juanita Ave., Glendora 91740-5646
Daniel o. Schaefer (448) ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
. 437 Turner Drive, Benicia 94510
William F. Sizemore (315) . ...... ...... ...... ... ....
P.O. Box 17271, Anaheim 92817-7271
Robert L. Sorensen (686)(431) ...... ...... . . .......
2519 Heide Ct, El Sobrante 94803-3609
Auri Spigelman (595) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 148 No. June St., Los Angeles 90004
Roy E. Steinfeld (198) . ...... ...... .. .... .. ......
... P.O. Box 7549, Torrance 90504-8949
John M. Storlie (286X493) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 2238 Olive St., Paso Robles 93446
C.E. "Gene" Trullinger (190) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17650 Flowers Ln., Anderson 96007-8226
Richard A. Tucker (663) . ..... ..... .. .. .. .... . ...
.. 665 Nectarine St., Oxnard 93033-4616
Jerrold A. Wohlfarth (687) . .... . ...... ...... . .......
759 Lazy Circle Dr., Vista 92083-6745
Thomas D. Worrel (356) ...... ...... ...... ...... ..
80 Elaine Ave., Mill Valley 94941-3540

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HISTORY

Standing Committee
Charles H. Alexander (111) . . .. . .. .
. . . . . .... . ... . . . 1025 W. Lindo Ave.,
Chico 95926-2018
Richard Bingle (428) . . . . . . ... .. . .
. . . . . . . . . ... .. . ... . .... 120 E. Juani
ta, Glendora 91740
Brett A. MacDonald (315) ..... . . ....
.... .... .... . 469 N. Stephora St., Covi
na 91724-2653
William F. Sizemore (315) ..... ....
. .. . . . ..... . . ... . P.O. Box 17271,
Anaheim 92817-7271
Jorge Soto (175) . . . . ... ... . . . .. . .
. . . ..... . . . .. ... ... P.O. Box 4073,
Antioch 94531-4073
Elton L. Turner (26) . . . . ..... .. ....
.. ... ..... . ... 5236 Merritt Ln., Place
rville 95667-8828
Michael G. Arnold (254) Advis or ....
.... .... .... .. . .. .. .. . P.O. Box
1243, Redding 96099
R. Stephen Doan (369) Advis or . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . 6411 Seabryn Dr., Rancho
Palos Verdes 90275
Richard B. Eaton (2) Advisor . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520 West
St., Redding 96001
Ralph H. Head (352) Advisor . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 492 Scenic Dr.,
Santa Barbara 93103
Theodore Meriam (l l l)Adv isor .. . .....
.... . . . .... . .. . 520 Citrus Ave., Chico
95926-4507
Hugh A. Shuftleton 111 (2) Advis or . .....
... . . ... . .. . . . . . . P.O. Box 369, Shast
a 96087-0369

MASONIC SERVICE BUREAUS

Stan ding Committee
Howard J. Dumont (786) . . . . . .... ..
. .. . . . . . . ..... . . . 8517 El Modena,
Elverta 95626-9568
Edga rL. Friedman (520) . .... . .....
..... 1825 Selby Avenue, #103, Los
Angeles 90025-7615
George C. Hesse ( 10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 2238 Los Gatos-Almaden Rd.,
San Jose 95124-5317
Alexander T. Kirkpatrick (494,61,188)
..... . .... . . 3926 Randolph Ave., Oakla
nd 94602-1211
Robert W. Meier (290) . . . . . ... . .. .....
. . ... . . . ..... .. 424 Marie Ave., Los
Angeles 90042

MAS ONIC WID OWS PROGRAM

Special Committee
Robert E. Winter (187) .. .. . . .... ..
. . . ..... .. . . . . ... . . 7700 Crews Rd.,
Gilroy 95020-9558
John T. Ansell (20) ... . .... . ... . ..
. . . . . . . . ..... 6920 Chevy Chase Wy.,
Sacramento 95823
Harold N. Barker (26,43,25) .... .. .
..... . . ..... ..... 2661 Larsen Rd.,
Camino 95709-9704
William A. Biggs (580) . .. .. .. . ....
.... .... .... .... . 1382 Darcy Ln., Ramo
na 92065-3349
Irwin T. Cohen (10,120) ..... . .. .....
. . ... . ... . . .. 900 S. Clover Ave., San
Jose 95128-3322
Steven D. Cooley (807) .. ... . .. . . .
... . ..... . . 3408 Michael Dr., Newb
ury Park 91320-3131
Harvey C. Ferguson (221) . ... ..... .....
. .... .. ... 1428 Bear Creek Dr., Bisho
p 93514-1948
Howard C. Fish (830,691 ,384) . . .. . .....
.. 3939 Walnut Avenue, #151, Carmichae
l 95608-2193
Frederick H. Griffin (327) . . .... . ...
. . . . . . 1380 Weeburne Rd ., #81F, Seal
Beach 90740-3944
Edward Hernandez (592) . . ... . .. . ...
. . . . . . ..... .. 9639 Crebs Ave., North
ridge 91324-1911
Sam Jaber, Jr. (80) .... . . .. .... ....
.... .... .... .... 601 Carbondale Rd.,
Ione 95640-9525
Thomas I. Jarrard (35) ..... ..... 3089
-C Clairemont Avenue, Suite 169, San
Diego 92117-6802
Roy L. Kimmell, Jr. (634, 842) ..... ...
. . ..... . . .. 16469 Mesquite St., Hesp
eria 92345-5846
Paul L. Mease (576) ..... . . . . ... ...
.. . . . . . ... . 244 Shady Ln., Lot4 0, El
Cajon 92021-7160
William Nemoy (520) . . . . . . . . . . . ..
.. .. 2323 S. Bentley Ave., #304, Los
Angeles 90064-1963
Eligio D. Pangilinan (283) .... .... ....
. . ..... . . . 7979 Royal Oak Pi., San Diego
92114-7714
Edward L. Potter (466) . ... . ..... .....
. . . . . . . . ..... .. 1213 Ridge View, Bake
rsfield 93306
Mark E. Pressey (671) . ... . . .. ... .
. ... . . . . . . ... . . . .. 805 Maryland Dr.,
Vista 92083-3334
James C. Rudeen (200, 691) . . .. . ..
. ... . ... . ..... ... 11886 Frond Rd.,
Truckee 96161-2152
Daniel 0 . Schaefer (448) . . ..... ....
. . . ... . ..... . ... . . . . 437 Turner Drive
, Benicia 94510
Arthur H. Scott (326) .... . .. . ... . .
.. . . . . . ... . . .. P.O. Box 5525 , Moha
ve Valley, AZ 86446

GRA ND LOD GE OF CAL IFOR NIA

417

John w. Siemers (131) . ..... . . . ....
..... .. . ..... ••.. 2338 W. Tokay St.,
Lodi 95242-3600
John H. VandenBos (61) ... . ..... .....
. ..... ... . . 1624 Boxwood Ave., San
Leandro 9457 9

MEM ORIA L SERVICE

Standing Committee
Emile R. Laversin (I) . . . . . .... . ...

. ... .

..... . . ... . . 2345 Lawton St., San Franc
isco 94122
v. Kent Armstrong, Jr. (591) .... . . . .. .. .....
.

. .. .. .. . . . 364 Birchwood St., Manteca
9533 6
Robert N. Deter (611) .. ..... . . ....
. ... . .... . . ... . . . . 22309 Baltar St.,
Cano ga Park 9130 4
Mark Sandstrom (615 334) . .. . . . ...
. . . . .. ..... .. 239 E. Juanita Ave., Glend
ora 91740-5646
William N. Wine (44S) . . . . . .. . . . . .
. . .. . . .. .. . . . . ... .. .. 1487 Barbis
Wy., Concord 9451 8
Sean N. Foran (373,677,528) Advis or
.. . ..... . . ..... 25826 Piuma Rd., Calab
asas 91302-2153

OFF ICER S' MANAGEMENT WOR KSH

OPS

Special Committee

c. Richard Hutchinson, Jr. (247) ... . .. . . . . . . .
. . . . . 8630 E. Herndon Ave., Clovis 9361
1-9001
James J. Bajgrowicz (57,295) . ... . ..
..... . . . . .. 235 Wikiup Meadows Dr.,
Santa Rosa 95403
H. Edward Barr (378) ..... .. . . . ....
. . . ..... ..... . . . . P.O. Box 779, Helen
dale 92342-0779
Ronald E. Cooper (406) . . . . ... . . . ...
. .. . . . . .. . 7906 Rim Canyon Rd., Sunla
nd 91040-2236
Mark G. Gershon (520) . . . . . . .. .....
. . 142 S. Wetherly Drive, #102, Los _A
ngeles 90048-2922
Frederick G. Kleyn lll (620, 837) . .....
..... . 11073 Plum Tree Ln., Spring Valle
y 91977-7047
Howard E. Lewis m(789) .... . .....
..... ..... .... 1130 Mosswood Ln.,
Dixon 95620-3217
Paul E. McCleary (580) . . . . .. . . . . .
. . ... . ... . ... . 12911 Oak Knoll Rd
.•. Poway 92064-5621
Donald E Newcome (748,178) ... . .
... ... . .. . . ... . . ... P.O. Box 981, High
land 92346-0981
Raymond. w. Peltie r(419 ) .. . .... ..
. . ..... ..... ..... . .. 6822 Burke Ct.,
Chino 91710-6206
Larry A. Reynolds, Sr~ (40) . . .. . .....
.. . .. .. . . . 2100 McGregor Dr., Ranc
ho Cord ova 9567 0
Robert A. Reynolds (389) .. . ... . . ...
.. ... . ..... . 21117 Northview Dr., Wal?
ut 91789-2023
Madison E. Rogers (442) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10125 Pino Dr.,
Lakeside 92040-3350
Hal G. Scott (799) . . . .. .... .. .....
.. ..... .. . 4892 Mt. Bigelow Dr., San
Diego 92111-2526
Ross A. Simonet (98,99) . . .. . .. . ..
. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . ..... . . 2139 La Paz
Ct., Me17ed 9534 0
Jay v Smith (668) . .. ..... . .. .....
. .. .... . . . . ... 5700 W. Wilson St.,
#94, Banning 9222 0
Domi~go R. Sola (441) . . ... . . . . ..... . .....
. . .. 9854 Tomcat Place, San Diego 9212
6-5529
Peter J. Thompson (185) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38080 Ocean Ridge
Dr., Gualala 95445
F Allan Weinstein (120) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . 120 W. Third Avenue, #308
, San Mateo 9440 2
Gary A. Yanes (218) . ..... . . . .. ...
. ... . . . . ... . . . .. 367 Polk Way, Liver
more 94550-3441
PLANNING AND RESEARCH

Special Committee
E. Arthur Haglund (480) ... . .. . .. .
..... . 5433 Quail Ridge Circle, Spokane,
WA 99223-6388
David R Doan (369) ... . ... .. ... .
.. . ... . ..... 12010 Alderbrook St., Moor
park 93021-3130
Frederick G. Kleyn III (620, 837) ....
. . . ... . . 11073 Plum Tree Ln., Spring
Valley 91977-7047
Jack R. Levitt (35) ... . . .. .. . .. . . .
. . . ... . . . 2570 Fairway Drive, Bozeman,
MT 5~715-5843
Frederick L. Sorsabal (26) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1522 Teal Pond
Ct., Placerville 95667

418

PROCEEDINGS OF Tiffi
POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES

Standing Committee
Lester W. Miller (327) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2999 E. Ocean Blvd., #2030, Long Beach 90803-2542
David T. Buck (287) .......... .. ........... ... ...... 2637 Irene Wy., Bishop 93514-3029
Ronald L. Koretz (520) .................... ... .... 16847 Colven Rd., Granada Hills 91344
Edwin A. Robinson (357) .... ....... ........ ..... ...... 9859 Via Sonoma, Cypress 90630
Francis A. Russell, Jr. (341) .... ................... .... 520 Willow St., Oxnard 93033-6012
Thomas M. Sagar (576) .................... . ... ... 2282 Dehesa Rd., El Cajon 92019-2724
Rodger D. Siems (615) ............................... 27828 Lake St., Hemet 92544-8457
Loyal L. Stark (243) ......... . ......................... 24065 Edloe Dr., Hayward 94541
James D. Stephens (26) ..................... 1460 Cold Springs Rd., Placerville 95667-7944

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

419

Roger S. Murray (762) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835 Standish Rd., Pacifica 94044
Robert A. Palmer (615) .......................... 702 Vista Del Monte, Hemet 92543-8033
William F. Parker (626) ...................... 600 Sheffield Ct., #8, Chula Vista 91910-6247
Donald T. Pollock (721) ........ . .................... 20350 Lorne St., Canoga Park 91306
Lester E. Schultz (753) ..... .................... 17701 S. Avalon, #175, Carson 90746-1553
Harold R. Sheets (614,352) ................... 211 N. Loraine Avenue, Glendora 91741-3161
David Shira (808) .. . .......... . .............. . ...... 2557 Ribier, Rancho Cordova 95690
N. Glenn Stanphill (208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2778 Canal Court, Fairfield 94533
Roger W. Torrey (1) .......................... 1354 - 29th Ave., San Francisco 94122-1406
L. Albert Wheeler lII (327) .... . ............... . 3740 Ransom St., Long Beach 90804-2717
Billy R. Wilkerson (327) .. ................... 5318 E. Hanbury St., Long Beach 90808-1918
Jerrold A. Wohlfarth (687) .......................... 759 Lazy Circle Dr., Vista 92083-6745 ·
RETIREMENT PENSION PLAN

PUBLIC RELATIONS

Standing Committee

Special Committee
Mark N. Gibson (693, 826) ................. ..... .. 73080 San Nicholas, Palm Desert 92260
Eldean Behunin (35,296,407) .................. 4562 Georgia St., #8, San Diego 92116-2607
Stephen H. Chan (136) .. . .... ..... .............. 326 - 32nd Ave., #6, San Francisco 94121
Robert S. Granas (529) ... . .......... . ...... . . 4864 Glencairn Rd., Los Angeles 900~7-1135
Stephen T. Hawkins (272) ................... 662 W. Huntington Dr., #518, Monrovia 91016
Douglas B. MacMullen (202) ................... P.O. Box 5201, Sherman Oaks 91413-5201
Roger S. Murray (762) ................................ 835 Standish Road, Pacifica 94044
Floyd E. Prather (190, 2) ..................... . . . ....... 19670 Valley Ln., Redding 92002
Raymond B. Rosenbaum (352, 712) .......... 18102 Burbank Blvd., #37, Tarzana 91356-2522
Michael L. Sellick (499) ...... . ........ . . ... 6504 Meadowcreek Wy., Citrus Heights 95621
Roy E. Steinfeld (198) ............ . .............. . .. P.O. Box 7549, Torrance 90504-8949
Myron Tisdel (254) ....................... ... ... 4690 Memory Ln., Redding 96001-4027
Rodney P. Wineberg (436) ...... . .................... 120 E. Amherst St., Claremont 91711

Robert A. Klinger (120) ........ .. ............. . ..... 283 - 30th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Roy J. Henville (588) ............................ 3046 Stoneley Dr., Pasadena 91107-5550
Harry L. Maynard (214) ........................ 5448 No. Bryn Mawr, Ventura 93003-2252
RITUAL

Standing Committee
Ulysses G. Patropulos (344) .............. 1275 Washington St., #1, San Francisco 94108-1053
Harold A. Macy (769) .......................... 2127 East Ave. Q-2, Palmdale 93550-4029
Edward P. Margherio (347) ....................... 2503 Heide Ct., El Sobrante 94803-3609
Willis H. Rogers (300} ........•.............. 280 W. Highland Ave., Redlands 92373-6768
Robert S. Watanabe (58) .... . ............. 6908 Westmoreland Wy., Sacramento 95831-2717
SESQUICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION

PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Special Committee

Standing Committee
Todd c. Ganos (462) ......................... . 786- 37th Ave., San Francisco 94121-3406
Sarkis Babian (520) ................. 2621 N. Commonwealth Ave., Los Angeles 90027-1209
Allan E. Bartlett (122) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3340 Peachwillow Ln., Walnut Creek 94598
Richard J. Bingle (428) . .......... . ........ ... ..... .4922 Burnaby Dr., Covina 91724-1904
Edward A. Blevins (178) ........................... 1208 Del Havens Ct., Redlands 92374
Roy H.E. Dale (187) .............................. 7765 Eigleberry St., Gilroy 95020-5124
Wesley w. Daniels (57) ................... . ....... 2155 Francisco Ave., Santa Rosa 95403
Kenneth L. Davis (732) ............................... 8035 Dorian Wy., Fair Oaks 95628
Clifford R. Dobbins (262) ......................... 1201 Primrose Ct., Lompoc 93436-3259
William J. Edwards (209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1580 Diablo Dr., San Luis Obispo 93405
William Gillaspie (149) .... ...... .. .. ...... .. .. .. .... 697 Gold Run Rd., Susanville 96130
Stanley E. Jacobs (19) .............. ... ............ 5052 Blue Spruce Ct., Stockton 95207
William H. Kennedy (611) .............. ... ........ P.O. Box 7205, Northridge 91327-7205
Johns. Kovacevich (316) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2354 Sequoia Avenue, Sanger 93657
Marvin E. Locke (2) ............................. 14250 Wyndhaven Dr., Red Bluff96080
Kaulayaw S. Medina (283) ................... 439 Meadowbrook Dr., San Diego 92114-6131

Larry L. Adamson (369, 813) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24210 Bella Ct., Newhall 91321
ThomasM.Boles(202) ........................ 1761 E. WoodcrestAvcnue,LaHabra90631
Ronald E. Cooper (406) ...................... 7906 Rim Canyon Road, Sunland 91040-2236
JeffH. Eichner, Jr. (686) ................................ . 332 Skylark Way, Napa 94588
Davis B. Leonard (322) ........ ...... ...... 1422 S. Ninth Avenue, Hacienda Heights 91745
Gary C. Young (3) ...... .. ...... . . .. ... .. ... 7028 Pera Drive, Rancho Murieta 95683-9559
TEMPLE PROPERTIES AND TAXATION

Standing Committee
Harry G. Golden (520) .................... 3611 Motor Ave., #103 , Los Angeles 90034-5748
Larry L. Adamson (369,813) ..... .. ...................... 24210 Bella Ct., Newhall 91321
Garrett S. Chan (136) ................................ 786-9th Ave., San Francisco 94118
Howard J. Dumont (786) .... .......... ......... ..... 8517 El Modena, Elverta 95626-9568
Ronald L. Hein (190) ................................ .... 6775 Riata Dr., Redding 96002

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Frederick Kao (113) . . .... .... .... . ..... . ... .. . ... ..... . 2853 Carmel St., Oakland 94602
Richard B. Lane (305, 428) . . ............... 410 E. Bougainvillea Ln., Glendora 91741-2600
Donald B. McClary (35) .. . . ... .. . .. . ........ 2315 Caminito Estero, San Diego 92107-1522
Lloyd D. Minor (579) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3260 Hector Rd., Newcastle 95658-9720
Ralph E. Newman (635) .. . .. . .. . . . ...... . . ... . . .. 5286 Jurupa Ave., Riverside 92504-1224
Allen J. Palmer (463) ...... ... .. . .......... . . 16740 Springhill. Ct., Morgan Hill 95037-4810
David A. Poole, Jr. (241) . .. . . . . . .. .. ....... ... . ... 13202 Marshall Ln., Tustin 92780-1820
Bernard R. Shepard (400) ........ .. . . . .. ....... ... . . . 1301 Drake Ave., Burlingame 94010
Wilbur H. Stevens (204) .. . ........................ . 38 Santa Ana Dr., Salinas 93901-4136
Thomas J. Luby (444) Consultant .. ... .. ......... 1260 La Brea Lane, Carpinteria 93013-1428

U.S. CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
Standing Committee

420

TOURNAMENT OF ROSES PARADE FLOAT

Special Committee
Stanley L. Channon (259) . .. . ...... .... 2202 Vista Del Lago Dr., Valley Springs 95252-9379
Frederick T. Alexander (450) .. . ..... ... . . ..... . .. .. .. P.O. Box 6854, Burbank 91510-6854
LeRoy Bartels (421) .... ... . . . .. ........ . . ..... 6131 Flight Ave., Los Angeles 90056-1509
Robert C. Coe (322) Treasurer . ............ ..... .... P.O. Box 661567, Arcadia 91066-1567
George H. Cronin 11 (372) . . .. . ... . ... . . . . ... . .. . . ..... 1904 W. 148th St., Gardena 90249
David H. Farlee (677) Secretary .... . . . ...... ... ..... 24620 Eilat St., Woodland Hills 91367
Donald A. Hull (332) . . . ... .. ... . . ......... . ..... 1911 W. 233rd St., Torrance 90501-5530
Thomas C. Letcher (202) . . .. . . . ... .. ........ .... ....... . P.O. Box 6279, San Pedro 90734
Herschel P. Mazer (721) .... . ...... ... 7826 TopangaCanyon Blvd., #308, Canoga Park 91304
Raymond B. Rosenbaum (352, 712) ....... ........ 18102 Burbank Blvd., #37, Tarzana 91356
Gaylord V. Roten (677) .... ......• . .. . .. . ....... . 10304 Northvale Rd., Los Angeles 90064
Mark E. Schrock (841, 612, 625) ... .. . ..... .... .. . . .. .. 5200 Irvine Blvd., #25, Irvine 92620
H. Douglas Lemons (327) Advisor . ... ...... ... . .. . 2958 Daneland St., Lakewood 90712-2134

TOWN HALL MEETING

Special Committee

421

Ronald H. Markarian (366) . .. . ...... . . . . .. ...... .. . 8547 N. Calaveras Ave., Fresno 93711
Michael J. Bear (520) ...... . . ...... ....... 12518 Brooklake Street, Los Angeles 90066-1810
Mario Chiappe (793, 577) .. .. . . . ..... ....... . . ... .. 4600 W. Broadway, Hawthorne 90250
Chris R. Christoff(625) ..... .. . ... . .. .. .... . 5971 Ave. Juan Bautista, Riverside 92509-6419
Daniel G. Cook (191) .. . ... . .... .. ... . .... .. . . .... 4985 Paradise Dr., Tiburon 94920-1072
Maurice R. Crosby (131) . . ... . ....... .. ..... .. . 6408 Rampart Dr., Carmichael 95608-1104
Ralph C. Dills (557) . ..... .......... .. .. . . . .. 431 Y:. Hillcrest Ave., El Segundo 90245-2912
Ramon A. Figueroa (104) . . .. ...... .. .. ... . . 11014 Famdon St., South El Monte 91733-3944
William Kludjian (352) ....... ...... ......... .. 14503 Dunnet Ave., La Mirada 90638-4114
Douglas S. Lawrence (57) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5421 Monte Verde Dr., Santa Rosa 95409
Brett A. MacDonald (315) . ......... . ....... . ... .. 469 N. Stephora St., Covina 91724-2653
Michael M. Marsellos (677) . . . . .......... 1431 Ocean Ave., #1519, Santa Monica 90401-2150
Robert W. Martin (5 II) .. ... ........ ..... .. . ... . . . . .. . ... P.O. Box 3503, Saratoga 95070
Lewis L. Millett (668) ...... ........ ... . . ...... .... . P.O. Box 1752, Idyllwild 92549-1752
Guillermo P. Munda (614,840) .. .. . .. ....... 7302 Irvine Ave., North Hollywood 91605-3943
John V. Neal (802) ... ...... . . . . ... .. . ....... ....... . 7092 Sunset Rd., Joshua Tree 92252
Jerry D. Roberts (26) ..... ...... . ...... ... ....... 6601 Thunderhead Ln., Placerville 95667
Russell D. Roberts (269) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13233 Avenue 232, Tulare 93274-9326
John W. Runcie II (712,399,844) . .. . . ..... . .. . ..... 995 S. Daniel Wy., San Jose 95128-3120
William F. Sizemore (315) .... .. . ... . ... ... . . .. P.O. Box 17271, Anaheim Hills 92817-7271
Auri Spigelman (595) ........ ..... ........... .... . 148 No. June Street, Los Angeles 90004
Benjamin T. Sutherlin (625) .. ...... . . .... . . . .. . 10181 Kings St., Los Alamitos 90720-2229
Theodore P. Tartaglia (277) . .......... .. ... . ..... 947 W. Friesen Ave., Reedley 93654-2730
Roger W. Torrey (I) ...... .. ....... . ..... . ..... 1354 - 291h Ave., San Francisco 94122-1406
Stephen S. Wallace (318) ... . ...... . ............ ll08 N. Meyler St., San Pedro 90731-1328
Allen S. Beddoe (561) Advisor . ..... .. .. . ... . . . .. .. 5125 Arlene St., San Diego 92117-1414
Orren C. Rupert (448) Advisor . ...... .. . . . . . . . . 1122 Kilamey Ln., Walnut Creek 94598-1517
Bradley R. White (286) Advisor . ... . . .. . ...... . . .. 610 Funston Ave., San Luis Obispo 93401

Richard L. Riemer (357) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850 N. Parton, Santa Ana 92701-3393
Donald G. Souza (327) ...... .. . ... ....... ..... ....... . .. P.O. Box 392, Sebastopol 95473

VIDEO AND CREATIVE PROJECTS

TRIAL REVIEW

Frederick T. Alexander (450) .. ...... .. . ......... ... .. P.O. Box 6854, Burbank 91510-6854
Gordon C. Alexander (542) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13044 Hartsook St., Sherman Oaks 91423
David Bergen (542) ... .... .. . .... . .... .. 13354 Magnolia Blvd., Sherman Oaks 91423-1576
Pasquale M. Moscatello (542) ...... . .. . .. .. ..... . . 820 N. Verdugo Rd., #B, Glendale 91206
Todd K. Orr (506) . . .. . . .. . ....... . .. . ...... 17128 Tribune St., Granada Hills 91344-4937

Standing Committee
David R. Doan (369) . .. . .. .... . .............. 120 I 0 Alderbrook St., Moorpark 93021-3130
Donald B. Constine (344,136) ....... . . . ..... . .. . ... .. 182 -32..i Ave., San Francisco 94121
Charles W. Foster (807) . . ... ... . .. ..... .... . .. ... . 2509 Renata Ct., Thousand Oaks 91362
Vernon A. Leeper (3) ..... . . .. ............. . 356 Prestige Ln., Rancho Cordova 95670-4316
Thomas C. Letcher (202) ......... .... . ... ...... .... P.O. Box 6279, San Pedro 90734-6279
Duke D. Rouse (178) ............. . ... .. .. ...... .. ... 7607 Streater Ave., Highland 92346
Clifford L. Shinn (614,524,411) .. .. .......... . ...... P.O. Box I 538, Wildomar 92595-1538
Donald R. Fretz (99,12) Advisor .. ... .. .. . ... . . .. ... .. 3279 Scenic Drive, Napa 94558-4349

Special Committee

WARD ENS' LEADERSHIP RETREATS

Special Committee
Stanley M. Cazneaux (191,295) .. . ... . .... 840 Mark West Springs Rd., Santa Rosa 95404-1140
David C. Decker (419) ... ... .. . .... . .. .. . .. . .. 1381 Millwood Road, Riverside 92506-5306
Frederick L. Sorsabal (26) . . .. ...... .. ... . . ... ...... 1522 Teal Pond Ct., Placerville 95667
Alvin J. Weis (480) . ...... .. .. ..... ......... 627 N. Silverado Drive, Lafayette 94549-5334
C. Ray Whitaker (280) .... . .. . . . . . .. ....... ......... . 224 So. "J" St., Madera 93637-4645

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

YOUTH ORDERS

REGISTE RED ATTENDA NTS

Special Committee
Raymond W. Peltier (419) ... ...... .. . ..... ......... ... 6822 Burke Ct., Chino 91710-6206
Joseph A. Stouch (437) Vice-Chairman ........... .. .. . 6081 Devonshire Dr., Palmdale 93551
William H. Boxell, Jr. (732) .. ... ... . ........ ... . 5400 Biltmore Way, Fair Oaks 95628-2904
J. Dennis Conwell (479) ... ... .. ....... ... ........... 424 Colfax Dr., San Jose 95123-3403
Ronald E. Cooper (406) ... .. ... .. . . . . ... .. ... 7906 Rim Canyon Road, Sunland 91040-2236
Raymond E. Davies (220) ... .. ... . ........... .. 9432 Asbury Cir., Westminster 92683-6509
Richard G. Dixon (264) ........... ........... ........ 165 Deerrun Ln., Santa Maria 93455
Louis D. Gross (377) ...... ... .. .... .. .. .... 24309 Friar Street, Woodland Hills 91367-1126
George E. Harrison (290) ....... 7139 Coldwater Canyon Avenue, North Hollywood 91605-4969
W. Alfred Kelley (180) . ..... .... .. .... ..... . ... 9160 Piccadilly Cir., Windsor 95492-8319
James J. Nash, Jr. (693) ........... ........... .... 1930 Paseo Raqueta, Palm Springs 92262
Jack M. Rose (428) .. .. ... ....... ... . .... 601 N. Darwood Avenue, San Dimas 91773-1609
Domingo R. Sola (441) ........... ........... .. 9854 Tomcat Place, San Diego 92126-5529
Daniel J. Thom (327) ... .... . ...... ........ ... . .. ..... 704 Balboa Dr., Seal Beach 90740
Gary A. Yanes (218) ....... . .......... . ........... 367 Polk Wy., Livermore 94550-3441
David Denbow (479) Advisor ........... ........ 3281 Terra Cotta Dr., San Jose 95135-2027

Member
Ldg. No.
Beard, Scott R .. .. . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . I
Bennudez, John A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
Laversin, Emile R . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
Menzies, Robert . . .. . . .. . . . .. . .. .. .. . . I
Miller, Albert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
Modolo, Richard J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
Torrey, Roger W .. ... . ......... .. .... I
Casady, Patrick R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Eaton, Richard B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Murray, John R ........... . .. . . ...... 2
Shuffieton, Hugh A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Wordlow, Christopher A . . .......... . . . 2
IYAvis, Don W . .......... .... .... .. .. 3
Ervin, Leroy L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Harris, James P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Leeper, Vernon A ..... .. ....... ... ... . 3
MartY, Richard H ............ ......... 3
Mc Donald, William L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Parell, Louis V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Wordlow, Anthony P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Young, Gary C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Ancheta, Franklin C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Apclado, Eduardo M .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 5
Dalangin, Corseno D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
De Rosas, Crispin R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Ecalnea, Pascual A ...... ............ . .. 5
Evensen, Russell A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Gallegos, Roberto S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Gatdula, Donald F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Henslin, Aaron I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Ibo, Franco S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Infante, Almedo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Infante, Reden A .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. 5
Mones, Danilo C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Patricio, Felimon .... ............ ..... 5
Salcedo, Cesar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Ursua, Ernesto V .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 5
Calvert, Robert G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Chin, Harry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Olson, Dale B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Robertson, Jack D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Longenbach, Foster K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Driesbach, David R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I0
Ford, Royce M ............ .......... 10
Hesse, George C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I0
Mark, Leo B . . ......... . ......... . .. IO
Walton, Arthur H ............ . .. ... .. 10
Burris, Willard G . . .. . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . 12
Butler, Eric D ............ ........... 12
Coulter, William E . . ............ . . ... 12

423

Member
Ldg. No.
Knoblauch, Thomas M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Richardson, Marvin V . .... .. . .... .. .. 12
Dahle, John R.E.. . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . 13
Hall, Bertrand F ... ............ ...... 13
Quinby, Eldon R ............ ........ 13
Kelso, Robert C ........ . ....... . .... 14
Reber, David J .. .. ............ ...... 14
Mackay, Mark T . . .. .. .. . .. . . . . . .. .. . J6
Mc Crea, Stephen J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Bihan, Maurice C .. . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. . . 17
Dubost, Pierre H . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . 17
Ghiai-chamlou, Alain M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Ghiai-chamlou, Yves F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Cabero, Hardy C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Evans, Kenneth R . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . .. 19
Frymire, Bryan K .. . . . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . 19
Jacobs, Stanley E . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . .. . . . 19
Meritt, Dennis M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 19
Turner, Dean E . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . 19
Knox, John W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Porterfield, Reynold A . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Squyer, Miguel H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Van Wagner, Gerald W ..... . .. .. ..... 20
Wilson, Richard A ..... .. ............ 20
Winter, Virgil A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Marsh, William G . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . .. . . . 23
Hender, Marion R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Perez, Roberto G. . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . • 24
Chandler, David A ............ ... .. .. 25
Gates, John N . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Powers, Claude T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 25
Day, William M . ............ ........ 26
Murry, Owen C ............ ....... .. 26
Reeder, Darrell J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Sorsabal, Frederick L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Stephens, James D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Tatti, Richard N . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
West, Robert 0 .. .. ............ ...... 26
Adams, James L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Sutton, Loyal D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Swierstra, Harry S . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . 30
Travis, Gilbert M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Whiteside, Glenn G .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. . .. 30
Witmer, Winfield A ...... .. .......... 30
Jump, George A .. ... ...... . ... . ... .. 32
Kiely, James R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
McNamara, Brian . .. .. ... ... .. .. ... .' . 32
Frederick, David A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Thomas, Charles R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Welling, Charles F ............ ....... 33

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Member
Ldg. No.
Ashfield, Arthur G .... ....... ........ 35
Bergen, Albert D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Emery, Thomas P .. ...... .. .. .... .... 35
Goodloe, John D ............. . .. . ... 35
Gore, Franklin D . . ...... . .. .. ... .... . 35
Greenwood, Paul I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Hertz, Adde . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Hess, Dale C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Hughes, John R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Hylton, Beverley M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Jarrard, Thomas I .... .. .. ...... . . .... 35
Kleyn, Frederick G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Leach, James H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Levitt, Jack R ... ... ...... . .... .. . .. . 35
Lopez-sainz, Arthur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Mansfield, Robin ............... ..... 35
Mc Clary, Donald B ...... . ... . ...... . 35
Murphy, Patrick J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Quimpo, Fulgencio I.J ..... . ... ..... ... 35
Stein, Melvyn B ... ......... ...... ... 35
Van Tassell, Delmar W . . ... .. .. .. .... 37
Hasey, Mark S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Land, Virgil R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Mac Donald, Daniel G ........ . ....... 38
Turegano, George C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Williams, Todd E .. ..... . ..... .. ..... 38
Born, Laddie R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Clause, Clifford E .... .. ... . ........ .. 40
La Sala, Ronald W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Thompson, Jay D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Walrath, George R .......... .. ....... 40
Beringer, John D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Emerson, Dow! V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Fisher, Charles R ........... ... . . .... 41
Heasley, Alfred C . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 41
Moberly, Thomas W ... . . ... . ....... . 41
Tartini, Louis E ............. .. ...... 41
Webb, Ernest C ............... . ..... 41
Wilhite, Robert W ......... . . .. ...... 41
Goss, Barry A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . 42
Mehlinger, Jordan L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Von Geczy, Joseph ... . . .. .. . ......... 42
Chatterton, Scott R ... . . . .... ...... ... 43
Cheezum, Howard J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Metcalf, Edward L ........ ....... .... 43
Seibert, James C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Weist, Elbert L ..... .. ......... . ... .. 43
Ingram, Paul S .... .. . .. ...... . .. .. .. 46
Sutherland, Richard S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Billingsley, Randy W .... ... .. . ... . ... 55
Clayton, Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
De Paul, Vincent L ......... .. .. .. .... 55
Walker, Raymond R ..... ........... .. 55

Member
Ldg. No.
Wolfe, David E .. ........ .. .......... 55
Bajgrowicz, James J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Daniels, Wesley W ....... . ....... . ... 51
Hollingshead, Richard S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Lawrence, Douglas S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Southworth, Herbert H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Truslow, Alfred R . ..... .. ........... . 51
Faught, William S .. .. . ... ... .. ...... 58
Finton, Donald W ...... . . . ..... ..... . 58
Fong, Paul E .. .. .. ................ . . 58
Hunsaker, Clyde A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Watanabe, Robert S .................. 58
Andrews, Richard S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Khan, Enver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Kirkpatrick, Alexander T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Loeser, Frederick A ......... ....... .. 61
Montgomery, Glen E ....... . .. .... . . .. 61
Parker, Donald R .................... 61
Rice, Marcus . .... ......... .. . . .. ... 61
Tom, John .......... ..... .. . . .. .. ... 61
Vanden Bos, John H ... . ..... .. ....... 61
Weisse, Donald E .... .. ..... . . . . ..... 61
Norris, Casey W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Parker, Lloyd M ............. ... .. ... 64
Rurka, Charles D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Scarbrough, Joseph C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Baker, John L ........ ... .......... .. 68
Church, Robert W .... . ... .. . . .. . .... 68
Du Bois, William E ... .... ....... . . .. 68
Garcia, Richard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Mc Alister, Scott P .....•..... . ... .... 68
Rousey, Andrew J .. .... .. .... . . ... .. 68
Santos, Donald C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Sweeso, Thomas M . . .... . ........... 68
Toler, William E ...... ....... . ..... .. 68
Wilburn, Clifford A ........ . . .. ..... . 68
Fredell, Donald G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Peardon, William A ....... .. .... .. . . .. 70
Benns, Gary E .. ...... . .. . .......... 78
Gibson, David F . .....• • .. ... . . . ..... 78
Lacy, Floyd A .......... ..... ... .. . .. 78
Abbott, Milton M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Lambo, William J ... .. ...... ......... 79
Mills, Russell E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Davis, Robert W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Radford, Michael H .. ......... .. . . ... 81
Young, Douglas W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Brasher, Billy N ....... . .... . . .. ..... 84
Sanders, Gerald W ..... . . . . .... .... .. 84
Azcarraga, David R ..... . . ......... .. 87
Doherty, Gerald R . .... .. . ....... .... 87
Doyel, Henry A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Espinosa, Antonio G ....... . . ........ . 87

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Member
Ldg. No.
Gardner, Charles E ...... . ............ 87
Kimble, Lester E . . ....... . . . ........ 87
Mac Connell, David P ... . .. .... ...... 87
Mc Kendry, Kenneth D .......... . .. .. 87
Miller, George H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Stout, Alvin J .... ..... .. ....... ..... 87
Thomas, David M . . . . .. . . ......... ... 87
Tool, Bill L . .. . ..... .. ........ . ..... 87
Forde, Richard J ........ .. . ..... ... .. 91
Lovell, Robert A ..... . ..... ..... .... . 91
Ingram, Howard H . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Moore, Norman E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Ogletree, Charles F . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 93
Sakai, Calvin K ... . . ...... ... .... . .. 93
Spindler, Robert L . .. ... ... .. .... .... 93
Stem, Donald L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Stem, Michael J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Werle, Ronald J ... ... ............... 93
Whiteley, James M .. . . ............. . . 93
Daniels, Lowell E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Sparks, Jordan C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Fretz, Donald R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Henry, Darwin V . ... . . ............ .. 99
Krebs, Joseph M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Ortega, Isador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Stallings, John N . . ..... ...... ........ 99
Beckman, Arthur ......... ......• .. . 101
Irvine, Robert W . . .... . ..... . .... . .. 101
Murray, Ronald E .... ~ ... . ... . ... ... JOI
Connelly, William F ... .. .. . . .. .. . ... 103
Leask, Robert A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 03
Mahlum, Dana R ................ . .. 103
Juell, Leonard L.A .. .............. .. 106
Ziegenfuss, Donald L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 06
Hushbeck, Charles F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Rounsevell, George B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Schattenburg, Alan J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Termini, Michael ................... 110
Alexander, Charles H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Derryberry, Warren E .... ........ . .. . 111
Dunham, Ray C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Henderson, William W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Hunter, Darrel E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Kidwell, Leonard H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Kidwell, Michael D.L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Langie, Louis A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Meriam, Theodore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Wood, Glenn R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Bright, Robert L ............ . . .. .... 112
Cowin, Ronald W ...... . .... ...... .. 112
Noe, Randy L . .... .. .... ........... 112
Walter, Rudolph K .. . .. ......... .... 112
Billings, William L .. .......... . ... . 113

425

Member
Ldg. No.
Kao, Frederick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 13
Kokinos, Peter J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 13
Lindsey, Walter L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 13
Franke, Donald A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Norris, Marvin R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Schultz, Herman F . ................ . •117
Birnbaum, Kenneth C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Cheng, Miguel A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Colombana, Gino S . ............. ... . 120
Froomin, Leonard B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J20
Gentschel, Richard P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Harlow, Walter J ..... ... ........... 120
Klinger, Robert A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Lam, Robert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J20
Lancer, Howard A ........... . . . .. .. 120
Lim, Edmond M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Loui, Frank ........... . ......... . .. 120
Martensen, Kenneth G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Mc Caw, Donald B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Morris, William J ... . ..... . . ... ..... 120
Owyang, Paul L ...... . ... . ......... 120
Speir, Thomas J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Trombulak, George . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Truitt, Trenton J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Weinstein, F. Allan .. ............. .. 120
Adams, WilbertB . ... ...... ..... .... 122
Augustine, Emilio H ... . ....... .. .... 122
Bartlett, Allan E . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Bloom, Gregory W ... .. . .... ... . .. .. 122
Grayson, Lincoln B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Caldwell, William E ................. 123
Eagan, Walter A .. . .. ..... ....... ... 123
Brekke, Wallace C ......... .... ... . . 124
Daley, Raymond H ..... .. .... .. . . ... 124
Slaght, Leon H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
Vest, William R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J24
Boltz, Roy W .... .. .. ..... ... ...... 126
Guyer, Kenneth 0 . . ...... ..... . , ... 126
Herzog, Donald J . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . 126
Herzog, Philip R ...... .... . .. , . . . . . . 126
Katsanos, George H . ... ............. 126
Mohn, Harlan J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Molnar, John . ........... ... ....... 126
Wootten, Raymond K .. . . . .......... . 126
Degenhardt, Albert .. . .... ....... .... 127
Kamilli, RudolfK ... .... ...... .. .... 127
Thielemann, Uwe K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Goeringer, Harold H ........ ...... .. . 128
Hildebrand, Howard L ....... . . ..... . 128
Hopper, Richard W ........ ..... .... 128
Page, Wayne E ..... .... .......... .. 128
Sherrill, Jerry M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Crosby, Maurice R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 131

426

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ld1. No.
Member
Denney, Harold W ........ .. . ....... 131
Sweeney, James R ..... ............. 131
Callison, Louis D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Esh, Marlin L .. .. .. .. . . . .. . . .. .. . .. 134
Lake, Edward R .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . .. 134
Moomey, Charles E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Waterman, Charles R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Chan, Garrett S . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . 136
Chan, Stephen H . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . 136
Friedman, Joseph .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . . . . . 136
Levy, Daniel E .. ........ .......... . 136
Magid, Fay A . . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
Pantages, Gregory J .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. . 136
Pond, Sidney L. . .. .. . .. . . .. . . .. .. . . 136
Rothblum, Carl H ........... ...... . . 136
Young, BarrettW ................... 136
Brewer, Richard J .............. .. . .. 143
Cowsert, Frank L .............. ... .. 143
Carlson, Neil A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144
Beck, Leon R . . . . . . .. .. . . . .. .. . .. .. 145
Chalmers, Guy M .. .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . 145
Holmes, Cebert C.C ....... ... ..... . . 145
Reed, Ralph W . . .. . . . . . .. .. .. .. . . . . 145
Timms, Richard W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
Bratsis, Haralampos ....... . .. .. ..... 146
Hurd, Gerald P ... . ........... . . .... 146
Littleton, Donald K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
Marcheschi, Eugene C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
Hauser, Wayne ..................... 147
Stebbins, Linton F ......... . ........ 149
Conway, Phillip W ............. ..... 150
Gray, Ivan M ........... .. ...• .. .. . 150
Smith, William J .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . . 150
Bussman, Robert W ........... ..... . 161
Carpenter, William S ................ 164
Anieta, Jesse H. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167
Campbell, Percy R ...... ... ....... .. 167
Cuenca, Allen ......... .... .. .... . .. 167
Donnici, Albert ........... .......... 167
Gardner, Teddy L ....... ........... . 167
Myrick, John ............ .. ........ 167
Szwaja, Joseph M . . . . .. . .. .. . . . . . . . . 167
Westfall, James D .......... . ... ..... 167
Wiest, Kelly E.................. .... 167
Baxter, Henry J.V ............. ...... 168
Pearce, Raymond R .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. . 168
Castelli, Joseph A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
Cesena, Earl L . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 169
Downing, Richard J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
Keller, Edward R ............ . ..... . 169
Nikas, Aristides J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
Paul, Varnum ........... ... ....... . 169
Pavlou, Emilios M .... . ... .. . .. . .... 169

Ldg. No.
Member
Silva, Carlos J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
Tchakedjian, Michel M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
Terrel, WalterC ...... .............. 169
Duncan, Gordon C . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 173
Hardiman, Philip A . . .... ........... 174
Andrews, Craig E . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 175
Halstead, Daniel P. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Soto, Jorge S .. .. . .. .. . .. . . . . . .. .. . 175
Wallis, Richard E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Wies, Joseph M . . ........... . .... .. 175
Blevins, Edward A . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . . 178
Flood, Jake W . . . .. . .. . .. . . • . . . .. .. 178
Georgiou, George M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178
Gresham, Allen B .......... ......... 178
Harlan, Richard P .. .. . . .. .. .. .. . .. . . 178
Hubbard, Steven B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178
Nolan, John C ....... ..... .......... 178
Root, Allan B .. .. . . . . . . .. .. .. . .. .. . 178
Rouse, Duke D . .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . .. 178
Smith, Joseph V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178
Whitley, Ellis ........ .............. 179
Horst, Otto J .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. • . .. 180
Kelley, Wallace A ...... .... ..... ... 180
Mogel, Emil J .... . ....... .......... 180
Stewart, Randy J .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . . 180
Whitten, George F .. .. .. . . . . . . .. . . . . 180
Baum, James G . .. ..... ...... . ...... 181
Giertz, John T .. . . . . .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . . 181
Siemer, Leslie W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
O'Neill, Thomas 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 183
Buss, Arthur E .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . 184
Crawford, Francis N . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187
Dickerson, William D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187
Gopp, Jeffrey A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187
Winter, Robert E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187
Altomare, Lawrence A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188
Andrus, Thomas M .. . . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . 188
Carnavali, Joseph N . . . . . .. .. . . . .. . .. 188
Dewitt, Carl L . . . . . .. .. . . .. . . . .. .. . . 188
Emberton, Gordon H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188
Hodgins, Raymond H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188
Stohr, John A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188
Prather, Floyd E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190
Cazneaux, Stanley M . . .. .. .. .. .. . . .. 191
Davis, John B .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . 191
De Young, Robert E ........ ......... 191
Dwyer, Carl S ........ .... . ......... 191
Eckles, C. Leland ................... 191
Martens, John E ... ... ........ .. .... 191
Polk, John R ... . ... .... ..... .... ... 191
Thompson, Peter J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
Jones, David R ... .... .......... ... . 192
Lewis, H. Francis .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 192

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Ldg. No.
Member
Bay, Kirby L . ................ ..... . 193
Spittler, John H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Brown, Gregory L .. . . .. .. .. . . . .. .. . 194
Hill, Stephen C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194
Baker, Rodney W . . .. .. .. . . .. .. . .. . . 195
Cummings, Richard S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I%
Lemming, Runo J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
Forbes, Conrado R ....... .. ... ..... . 198
Lacy, James A .................. ... 198
Steinfeld, Roy E . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . 198
Boaz, William L ..... . ........ . . .... 200
Marx, Henry A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200
Brun, Nicholas C ................... 201
Harp, William B .................... 201
Atkinson, Francis C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Boles, Thomas M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Bottorff, William .... . .............. 202
Bralley, Maurice W ... ...... . . ...... 202
Jackson, Charles W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Keshishian, Levon H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Klein, Daniel A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Letcher, Thomas C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Mac Mullen, Douglas B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Nazerian, Hampartzoum H ..... ... .... 202
Patterson, David R . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . 202
Rodriguez, Frank . . .. .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. 202
Roos, Edwin M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Rosenberger, Melvin D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Sciortino, Salvatore A • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Shirikjian, Gerard L .. . .. . . . . .. .. . . . . 202
Szeto, Philip K. .. .. . . .. .. . . . . .. .. . . 202
Waterhouse, Ritchie ..... ..... ....... 202
Wright, Stuart A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Alexander, David L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
Blum, Myrl G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
Rosier, Lewis G ............•. ... . .. 203
Hilblom, Carl B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Isaac, John D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Isaac, John W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Roel, Fred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Brown, Richard 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205
Abanathie, Bruce H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
Helsby, Jack E ... . .. . .... ... ....... 206
Van Holland, Jacobus ...... .. ........ 206
Black, Michael D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Leeper, Norman B. . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Mayhill, Harvey c... ..... .. ..... .... 207
Pll7.0, Raphael . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Sizemore, William F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Stanphill, Neville G . .. .. .. . . . . .. .. .. 208
Fowler, Kenneth W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
Nelson, Eldon S . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . 209
Wasson, Dan H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

427

Ld1. No.
Member
White, Bradley R . . . .. . . .. .. . .. .. .. . 209
Flores, Humberto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 O
Ruyle, Kenneth E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 O
Ancheta, Froilan A .................. 212
Bautista, Jesus R ................... 212
Castillo, Manuel D .................. ·212
Chavez, Thomas C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
Concepcion, Jose S .. .. . . .. . .. . . .. .. 212
Cruz, Rodolfo F .................... 212
Dionida, Bing I ..................... 212
Dionida, David V .. . .. . . .. .. . . .. . .. 212
Dori, Ronnie P .................... . 212
Geronimo, Danilo C . ...... .... ...... 212
Gulen, Rogelio T .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . . . . 212
Macaraeg, Rufo A .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . 212
Mastrile, Renato S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
Mendoza, Moises G .. .. . . .. . . . . . .. .. 212
Molina, Candido P .................. 212
Pagsanjan, Eduardo M ............... 212
Pagsanjan, Mario M ................. 212
Palmer, Claude J .. .................. 212
Policarpio, Rupert D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
Semana, Valeriano S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
Tuck, Kevin M .......... . .......... 212
Zapata, Gregorio F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
Zapata, Xerxes F . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 212
Charvonia, Russell E ..... ... ...... .. 214
Denton, John L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214
Maynard, Harry L ... ................ 214
Milligan, Bernard C ................. 214
Robles, John D ..................... 214
Amberg, Wilber H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215
Dalie, Stewart A . ................... 215
Frye, Edward M . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. .. .. . 215
Hansen, RobertE ................. .. 215
Joumeay,JerryV ..... ......... .. ... 215
Kittleman, Donald L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215
Mac Kenzie, Harold R .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 215
Perry, Edward F .................... 215
Ross, Joseph H . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 215
Schafer, Allen F ... ... . ............ . 215
Smalley, Hovel E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215
Quina, VirgilioC .................... 217
Smith, Dennis R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217
Williams, John A ................... 217
Boyes, Raymond L . . .. . . . . . . . .. .. . .. 218
Garbutt, Lloyd J .. . . . . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. 218
Page, Rodger J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218
Robinson, Glenwood E .............. 218
Thorne, David J . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . .. .. . 218
Yanes, Gary A . ... . . .. .. . .......... 218
Collins, Howard T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Hutchinson, Charles R .. ....... ...... 220

428

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Member
Ldg. No.
Ferguson, Harvey C ................. 221
Ballinger, James R .... .... . • ..... ... 222
Billings, Arthur S ................... 222
Kessel, Kenneth W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
Krummell, Thomas A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
Schmidt, Edward W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
Driggers, Norbert E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
St. Claire, Dale L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
Starr, Monte L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
Anderson, Gary R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Arp, David R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Baird, Michael T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Bettencoun, Joseph A . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 225
Langel, Charles A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Roulette, Edwin C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Sands, Harry F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Sands, Stuan A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Trimlett, Leonard R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Argabright, Cecil R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236
Estes, Terrell F ..................... 236
Neu, Benjamin D .. ................. 236
Ohlrogge, Albert L .................. 237
Privett, Bobbie D ................... 237
Violet, Jon A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 237
Little, Robert B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Manley, John A ........ . ........... 241
Meador, Stuart E ....... .... ..... . .. 241
Allen, Robert L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Hamp, Clarence G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Manin, Adam A ........ .. .......... 242
Cook, George W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243
Eller, Robert G ..................... 243
Stark, Loyal L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243
Von Konsky, Benram C .............. 243
Pacis, Cornelio F.................... 244
Rookard, Ray H . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 244
Thiel, Herman T . . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. .. . . 244
Donnelley, Larry A ................. 245
Kelly, Richard D ................... 245
Reimann, Frank K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 245
Arey, Tony ....................... . 246
Hager, Daniel E ........ . ....... . . . . 246
Brewer, Dee B ......... ...... ...... 247
Duncan, James R ................... 247
Emmen, Keith M ................. .. 247
Hill, Ivan G ....................... 247
Hutchinson, Charles R . .... ... ....... 247
Storment, Joe F ......... .. ......... 247
Hawthorne, Laurence F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
Kirkpatrick, Howard D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Van Pelt, Robert L .................. 254
Espiritu, Danilo T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Rutz, Jacob H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

Member
Ldg. No.
Wright, Richard O .................. 256
Channon, Stanley L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 259
Greenberg, Richard H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259
Lynch, James W .................... 259
Price, William H .. ....... ........... 259
Von Pertz, Robert R .. . .. ...... ...... 259
Knapp, J. C. . .... ...... ...... ...... 262
Miley, David R .......... .... .. ..... 262
Dixon, Richard G . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Drake, Randy L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Shaw, Gary W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Hammond, Joe ..................... 269
Higdon, David E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Miller, Allan D ................ . .... 269
Roberts, Russell D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Carmody, Charles J ......... .... .... 272
Freyburger, Douglas J ........... ..... 272
Habib, Gregory M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Paden, James R .............. . ...... 272
Philips, David F .................... 272
Saxberg, Joel T . .. .. .... .... ........ 272
Bodnar, Bart J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Gillespie, Henry F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Hernandez, John . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Jeanson, Richard W ................. 273
Mc Williams, Ivan S ................ 273
Miller, Everett E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Thompson, Clifford L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
Braun, Zachary L ................... 274
Rosson, Raymond E ................. 274
Daley, David R ..................... 275
Burton, Douglas P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
Rosenberg, Kurt I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
Tartaglia, Theodore P . ........... .... 277
Wingfield, Herbert L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
Connolly, William J .... ............. 278
Dines, Joe A ...... ... ........ .. .... 278
Drew, Donald J ..... ............ .... 278
Griffiths, Donald L ............ .. .... 278
Journey, Donald A .................. 278
Mayhew, Richard K ... ......... .. ... 278
Orth, Richard .... ...... .... ... . .... 278
Wilkins, Herbert ..... .... ... ... . ... . 278
Doerr, Jeffrey A ....... . ...... .. .... 279
Mc Killip, Larry F ........ .... .... .. 279
Robinson, John J.... .. .............. 279
Stover, Warren P ................... 279
Gordon, Vernon L ........ . .. .... ... 280
Huls, Gayle 0 ...................... 280
Johnson, David E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Mull, Rawlin L ..... ... .... .. ....... 280
Padgett, Richard P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Whitaker, C. Ray ................... 280

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Member

Ldg. No.

La Riza, William C...... .... ....... . 281
Almirol, Ricardo M ...... ..... ...... 283
Gustafson, Robert T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
Pangilinan, Eligio D ................. 283
Puspos, Dioscoro M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
Tumalad, Ernie F ................... 283
Jarvis, Connie L .................... 286
Johnson, Robert K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Buck, David T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Havlik, Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Mc Whorter, Marlin ................. 287

Fairfield, Anthony G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
Gordon, Kenneth E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
Hand, Harold M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
Joy, Thomas F ..................... 290
Meier, Robert W ..... .. . ...... ...... 290
Mucha, Daniel B ................... 290
Contestable, Pomphilo T ...... ....... 292
Rowan, Robert D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
Unger, John P ...................... 292
Adams, Ellis R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293
Bandak, Husam Y . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293
Greenfield, Shawn P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293
Sleppy, John C ..................... 293
Wilson, Johnny E ....... .. .......... 293
Nicholas, Joseph L . ................. 294
Anderson, Roy . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 295
Bresee, Miles H .................... 295
Feldman, Morris ... .. • .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 295
Mitchell, William C ...... ... ..... ... 295
Winkel, Horst 0 ......... .. ......... 295
Behunin, Eldean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296
Douglas, Bruce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296
Johnson, Luverne E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296
Mahoney, Edward W ................ 296
Hill, Emmett F ..................... 297
Clifford, Douglas L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Escamilla, Noe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Gross, Donald C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Harris, John L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Lim, Manuel V. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Nagel, Kenneth G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Zercher, Chris R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Harp, Brent M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Pena, Mario . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Rogers, Willis H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Tallon, Melvin K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Wiley, Keith R ...... .. ........... .. 300
Dunston, William H ................. 301
Doyel, Walter J ..................... 303
Griffin, Ronald D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
Herrold, Reuben F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
Tumey, Billy B .. . ................. 303

429

Member
Ldg. No.
Tumey, Lonnie J .. .. ........... .. .. 303
Lane, Kevin C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Lane, Richard B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
Torres, Alwyn ................•.... 305
Carlstrom, Terry G ............ . ..... 306
Bell, Donald R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Boyadzhyan, Vardkes ............ ... 307
Giel, Robert S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Ringwald, Walter R ................. 307
Ruhman, Lionel G.H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Thompson, Norman W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 307
Yoder, Robert E .... ...... .......... 307
Fletcher, Wayne F.... ..... .......... 309
Wans, Mack E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
Hembling, Brian L .................. 310
Jones, Ronald P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 313
Mink, Royal W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 313
Sullivan, David R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314
Eichen, Douglas B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 315
England, Daniel L ... ...... .... .... . 315
Gomez, Jesse D ... . .. ... .. . ........ 315
Hood, Lyle E ...................... 315
Kovacevich, John S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316
Ritchie, Jack E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316
Eytchison, Orville L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
Hall, William L ................... 317
Loomis, Paul A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
Allen, James B ....... ... . • . ........ 320
Creekpaum, Jerry H. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Krcelic, Brian A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Lynch, Charles A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Sweeley, RobertC .. .. ......... .. ... 320
Valenzuela, Robert R ................ 320
Kaplan, Jerold Z . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 321
Schwartz, Fredric M .............. ... 321
Str7.elec, Joseph F . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 321
Werner, Robert G. . ................. 321
Callaway, John D ................... 322
Coe, Robert C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 322
Hellem, David A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 322
Orrell, Thomas R ............. ... ... 322
Pierson, Weldon M . .. ........... ... . 322
Edmondson, Wilfred A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Parks, Robert L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Carlson, Robert M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325
Carmack, Gary L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325
Gibson, John P .. ......... .. ........ 325
Lobb, Verl B ....................... 325
Mackerley, Edward A ............... ; 325
Bennin, Loren C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Ferguson, Gene M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Gaddis, John W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
La Cost, Larry R .................... 327

430

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Member

Ldg. No.

Miller, Lester W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Peterson, James F . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . 327
Sherod, Ronald A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Shoemaker, Mark A ................. 327
Souza, Donald G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Stovall, William F .................. 327
Wheeler, L. Albert ..... •.• .......... 327
Anderson, George A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Ferris, Bert R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Stahlecker, Carl B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328
Bourguignon, Jacques C . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Dendia, John . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Dangreau, Paul D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Hamm, Charles E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Munger, TrevorD .................. 331
Donohugh, Michael S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332
Heiss, Todd R ...................... 332
Logan, Michael J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332
Mc Donald, James W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332
Moore, Ronald R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332
Miller, Glenn V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334
Clark, Verle E ...................... 337
Consiglio, Michael J ................ 337
Downen, Bill R ..................... 337
Emmanuele, Philip J ................. 337
Emmanuele, Salvatore ............... 337
Heisler, Marvin S ................... 337
Ko, Vincent C ...................... 337
Malone, Ronald W. . ................ 337
Van Winkle, John L ................. 337
Oltman, David R ................... 338
Alexander, David R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
Brubaker, Maurice L ................ 339
Fellows, Ralph M ................... 339
Marquez, Richard ................... 341
Riggs, Willard P .................... 341
Russell, F .A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341
Forbes, Ivan M ..................... 343
Shunn, Richard D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
Brown, Daniel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Brown, Richard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Constine, Donald B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Dean, Stephen J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Hobson, Terry L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Moore, Patrick D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Negrin, Jack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Patropulos, Chris U . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Patropulos, Ulysses G ................ 344
Beckner, Frederick L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Chamberlain, Thomas P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Deutsch, Murray . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Halpern, Mitchell B , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Hartsog, Alvie K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346

Member

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ldg. No.

Lesser, Harold ..................... 346
Locke, Richard F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Nickell, Eugene H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Teo, Anthony C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Wing, Richard V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
Grant, Edward J .................... 347
Hefley, Kennith A ..... . ............ 347
Margherio, Edward P ................ 347
Rogers, Arthur C ................... 347
Steele, Timothy D .................. 347
Draughon, Timothy P ................ 351
Roth, Maxwell S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
Willoughby, Darrell F ............... 351
Woods, Richard B .................. 351
Beck, John H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Chamberlain, James L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Faulkner, Carl R .................... 352
Head, Ralph H ..................... 352
Page, Edward C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Radford, Gene T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Rosenbaum, Raymond B . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Scott, Merrill D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Steigely, Edward A ................. 352
Bauer, Rudolph H. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
Cummings, Alfred R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
Curcuruto, Charles P ................ 355
Davids, David A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
Eckland, Gerald R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
Erickson, Carl A .................... 355
Romey, Marco D ................... 355
Short, Marvin G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
Shubb, Jerome A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
Thornton, Dale ..................... 355
Bransgrove, Stanley J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
Worrel, Thomas D .................. 356
Anderson, Nels A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
Chastain, James A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
Clayton, J. Lloyd ................... 357
Hoenow, Hans R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
Mc Donnell, Ronald R ............... 357
Riemer, Richard L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
Robinson, Edwin A. ................. 357
Greenberg, Edward W ............... 362
Ramsey, Howard W ................. 362
Butler, Kenneth H .................. 363
Coons, John G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363
Bjorge, John S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
Freeman, William R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
Jack, Cline C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
Leas, Hambleton F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
Pavlovich, Sam M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
Peloian, Jack H. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
Sorge, Theodore E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366

Member

Ldg. No.

Bagdasarian, Narbeh Y ............... 368
Jamgochian, George A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Koneff, Boris A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Mac Bride, Albert G ...........•..... 368
Missakian, Harry A. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 368
Mountjoy, Lawrence L ............... 368
Pooleon, Ernest A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Zenger, Ralph A. ................... 368
Adamson, Larry L . . . . . . . .. . . . .. .. . . 369
Cooke, Murray E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Doan, David R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Doan, R. Stephen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Dodds, Robert P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Foster, Harry M .................... 369
Kittredge, James H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Schultz, Nonnan M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Abuan, Renato F .................... 370
Barber, Edward L ................... 370
Booth, John W ..................... 370
Bush, Robert A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
Calalang, Alfonso P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
Freeman, Glen D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
Garland, Rodger G .................. 370
Gonzales, Raul C .................... 370
Green, Fred ........................ 370
Noveras, David A ................... 370
Sing, Franklin C .................... 370
Strohecker, Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370
Taylor, Lauryn H .........•......... 370
Vanta, Manolo A ....• ........... . ... 370
Cronin, George H ... ••• ............. 372
Davis, Freddie G ................... 372
Lenna, Victor M ..... . .............. 372
Martin, Kenneth E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 372
Watennan, Ira ...................... 372
Knight, Kenneth D .................. 376
Mose, James R ..................... 376
Rose, Thomas C .................... 376
Sandberg, Elmer A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376
Strand, Donald E ................... 376
Gross, Louis D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
Lindsey, William E ................. 377
Sheikh, Gulamhusei M ............... 377
Vrsalovich, Dana M ................. 377
Carmitchel, Bruce 0 ................. 378
Crocker, Jay W. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
Fisher, Wayne R .................... 378
Haecker, Irving M .................. 378
Hauben, Henry A ................... 378
Pitassi, Xavier A ..................•. 378
Porter, Scott T ..................... 378
Wrede, Robert A. ...... . ............ 378
Harp, Alvin C . . . . . . . . . • . . . .. . . . . . . . 380

Member

431
Ldg. No.

Jarjour, Nabil K .................... 380
Jones, Thomas G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Montgomery, Fred A ................ 380
Nielsen, Donald A .................. 380
Veatch, Scott A .................... 380
Carvalho, Anthony D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Gilmore, Jack H .................... 381
Nyberg, Richard A .... •••• .......... 381
Plummer, Jack L .................... 381
Schrum, George C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Youngblood, Roy L ................. 381
Becker, Arlie B ..................... 388
Bohn, Donald E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Burkard, Thomas C ................. 388
Campos, Juanito E ........... • . ..... 388
De Martini, Corrado L.J .............. 388
Estolano, Claude D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Finley, James E .................... 388
Frick, Wesley F .................... 388
Holly, Alfred G .................... 388
Kloess, Martin K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Lawrence, Lloyd R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Sears, Arnold C .................... 388
Sword, James A .................... 388
Tucker, Duane L .................... 388
Bruggeman, Charles H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Davis, Rodney H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Gatto, Rudolph A. .................. 389
Meigs, Arthur C ........•........... 389
Reynolds, Robert A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Sanford, George N . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Sine, David M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Petree, Joe D ....................... 390
Briones, Jonathan B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Reoch, Thomas B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Santarina, Elito M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Farr, Thomas A .................... 395
Mesa, Alfred F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395
Reed, Michael F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395
Smith, John R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395
Noland, Dalton A ................... 399
Scott, Dana F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399
Spalding, James W .................. 399
Conragan, Kevin L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Gardner, William J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Greensides, Derek F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Harlan, Harold R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Koula, Albert F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Mancuso, Michael A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Nelson, John D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Raafat, Farshid ..................... 400
Shepard, Bernard R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 400
Anderson, Henry L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Member

Ldg. No.

Errickson, John J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
Felt, John S .... .................... 402
Rice, Joshua H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
Holm, Thomas C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
Liddle, Keith D . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . 404
Pashby, Keith R .. .. . .. ........... .. 404
Pashby, Steven L ................... 404
Sprague, Harry R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
Young, Joseph C ................... 404
De La rosa, Noel H. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40S
Hope, Kenneth G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40S
Lombos, Ludovico R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40S
Popp, Augustin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40S
Barnes, Christopher K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
Carter, Richard B ................... 406
Cooper, Ronald E ................... 406
De Caro, Andrew A . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
Glance, Goodwin T .................. 406
Mc Elwain, Thomas G ............... 406
Proctor, Marian A ....... , . . . . . . . . . . . 406
Chadwell, Mark A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407
Hatcher, Mark F ... . .. ... .. .. ...... . 407
Seiler, Michael R ........ ... ... . .... 407
Berkshire, Douglas C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
Santiago, Iltyd J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
Lindstrom, Michial E.............. .. 411
Shinn, Clifford L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 411
Burnham, Alan B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
Cairns, Douglas N .. . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . 417
Chase, Steven A .. .. .. . .. . . . . . .. .. . . 417
Foote, Le Roy J ..... . ......... ..... 417
Hodges, David H . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 417
Lewis, Roben T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
Morse, Jordan C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
Sharer, Gerald A .... . ... . . . . ... ..... 417
Gonzalez, Carlos H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418
Albens, Joseph O . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Decker, David C ............. ....... 419
Fechner, Michael A ... .... . ....... . . 419
Hummel, Roben S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Kellner, Floyd S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Owen, Vandell C ................... 419
Parker, Frederick J ....... ... ........ 419
Peltier, Raymond W .. . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . 419
Pitts, Jack . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . 419
Ruh, Dennis A ..................... 419
Thomas, Eiben J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
Bartels, Leroy E .................... 421
Dietrich, Herman F ...... .. .......... 421
Armstrong, Earl D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 424
Huff, James C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 424
King, Paul H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 424
Lee, Woody A ..................... 42S

Member

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ldg. No.

Cooper, Stanley E ................... 426
Johnson, Herben W ................. 426
Skidmore, Fredrick W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 426
Crouch, Gregory W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
Rothschild, Jonathan D. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
Albers, Thomas T ................... 428
Ankney, Dale G .................... 428
Bingle, Richard J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Butterbaugh, Wayne L .... . . ... ...... 428
Johnson, Glenn C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Potter, Steven H .................... 428
Rose, Jack M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Reed, Roben L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
Pumerantz, Richard K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
Grossman, Jack .................... 437
Olmstead, Richard C ................ 437
Vickers, Jack R ..................... 437
Heffelfinger, Chris R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439
Lacy, James A ....... .. ............ 439
Concepcion, Apolinario T ........•... 441
Ebuen, Alben E .................... 441
Saldivar, Reynaldo A ................ 441
Sola, Domingo R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441
Andrews, Coren T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
Jensen, Harold L .. .... . . ............ 442
Newell, Ronald J .. .... ............ .. 442
Nilson, Tommy J ............ • ...... 442
Parks, Gary G ..... ............... . . 442
Rogers, Madison E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
Risdon, John M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
Tenold, Richard S ................... 444
Mautz, Roben L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
Rogers, Charles R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
Van Atta, Earl I .................... 446
Carlsen, Carl J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Devine, Gerald P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Hendrix, Verne W .................. 448
Lewis, Ernest E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Louis, Randall A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Parr, L.C. . .... .... .... . ....... .. .. 448
Perkins, Eugene R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Putnam, Herben B. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Rupert, Orren C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Rutan, Hanford L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Schaefer, Daniel 0 .................. 448
Terry, Donald E .................... 448
Williams, Todd E ................... 448
Wine, Lawrence E . ............. .... 448
Wine, William N ...... ... . .. ....... 448
Alexander, Frederick T .............. 4SO
Braun, Lance L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4SO
Dickson, William W ... ........... ... 4SO
Geoghegan, Leon D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4SO

Member

Ldg. No.

Richter, Brent A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4SO
Wallace, Neal D .................... 4SO
Brown, Maynard D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4S l
Figueroa, Ramon A . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 4S l
Logan, Gene A . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . 4S l
Meese, Charles F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4S l
Neely, Joe M ...................... 4Sl
Sutliff, Frank L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4S l
Andersen, Dewey ................... 4S7
Labrum, John M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4S7
Marlow, David I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4S7
Parker, Marshal F ......... .. ........ 4S7
Ryland, William J ...... .. .......... 4S7
Blundell, Edgar D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 460
Orr, Walter G ... . . ...... . ... ..... .. 460
Payne, Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 460
Routt, Leland G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 460
Feeney, Gerald W .... . ... ..... ...... 462
Ganos, Todd C ..................... 462
Gordon, William . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 462
Johnson, Mark A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 462
Springer, Joel H .................... 462
Tamano, Jimmy K ........ .......... 462
Blaustein, Leon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463
Levenon, Kenneth 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463
Munyon, Steven L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463
Palmer, Allen J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463
Potter, Edward L ........ .. ......... 466
Calhoun, Douglas K . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Cooper, John L ....... ...... ........ 467
Kenning, James S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467
Revill, Clive S .......... .... ....... 467
Martin, Glenn E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
Tambe, Joseph A .. ............. .... 469
Womack, Irving F ... . .............. 469
Boaz, Wilson R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
Kramer, Richard J ....... ..... ...... 479
Leggate, James F ......... . ......... 479
Mignosa, Charles P .................. 479
Shirey, Fred W ....... ........ ...... 479
Affolter, George .................... 480
Beitelschees, Roy E. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Casalou, Allan L . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 480
Haglund, Edward A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Haile, Roben D........ ...... ....... 480
Hughes, Vengie 0 ..... .. ........... 480
Mc Allister, Phillip L ................ 480
Peterson, Erik E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Redhead, Frank A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Shull, David M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Thomas, Oliver A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Weis, Alvin J ......... . . .... ....... 480
Wyne, Phillip H ......... .. ......... 480

Member

433
Ldg. No.

Bryant, Howard H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48S
Cheyne, James D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48S
Barfield, Charles H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 486
Bryan, James R ..................... 486
Hutchison, A. Lester . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 486
Worrell, Glen A ......... . .......... 486
Kimball, Roben C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488
Siebe, Barry C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488
Lopez, Francis S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 493
Marks, Thomas A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 493
Storlie, John M ..................... 493
Cazneaux, Richard S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 499
Cole, Clyde M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 499
Crandall, Kimberly L ................ 499
Ebbage, Raymond A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 499
Hankins, Leslie D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 499
Lindell, John A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 499
Ong, Lucien T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 499
Sellick, Michael L ...... ..... ....... 499
Young, Raymond A ................. 499
Stelzriede, Benjamin O . ...... ....... SOI
Hilt, Kenneth L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S 11
Mc Nitt, Ralph E ................... 511
Stanley, Harry L ....... ..... ........ 511
Robinson, Donaldo E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 513
Forster, Wolfram R ................. 518
Haas, Roben D ..................... 518
Kellner,AlbenL ................... 518
Aaronson, Lester . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Bear, Michael J ..................... 520
Cohen, Leonard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Friedman, Edgar L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Golden, Harry G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Goodman, Haskell L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Harris, Charles I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Koretz, Morris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Koretz, Ronald L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Marom, Joshua . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Nahin, Melville H. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Nemoy, William .................... 520
Omer, Allan ....................... 520
Pachter, Sam H ..................... 520
Paster, Max ........................ 520
Rudolph, Manin R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Schway, Stanley I ........ .... ....... 520
Sills, Roben L . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 520
Stein, Ronald J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520
Vanetek, Arthur D .................. 520
Hull, Ronald W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 524
Perry, Ronald C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 524
Burroughs, William D ............... 528
Foran, Sean N ........... ..... ...... 528
Lyman, Harvey B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 528

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Member

Ldg. No.

Ottinger, David P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 528
Turnquist, Lloyd R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 528
Granas, Rohen S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
Levin, Sam L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
Levine, Meyer S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
Schneider, Irwin M. . ................ 529
Singer, Aaron D .... ..... •• ......... 529
Smerling, Alexander . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
Smerling, William H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
Toepfer, Rudi A .................... 529
Carr, Rohen C . ..... ....... ...... .. 532
Davis, Delphin D .............. ..... 532
Philpot, Thomas D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532
Bray, William J .................... 542
Cowan, Alben G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 542
Duenckel, Richard G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 542
Maltby, Donald W .................. 542
Mc Elwain, Paul E ...... ........... . 542
Smith, Byron C ....... ............ . 542
Barnett, David C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Basham, James K . . ..... ............ 551
Benko, Mickey L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Blomseth, Warren J ............... . . 551
Cerates, Sidney H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Clendenen, Donald . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Ferrell, William M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551
Mac Laughlin, Kenneth H ............ 551
Matraia, Edward J .................. 551
Peters, Rohen D .................... 551
Pinto, Anhur J .. ... .. ........... ... 551
Weisser, Allen S ..... ............... 551
Woergoetter, Gerald R ............... 551
Herrera, Roger E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552
Peterson, Eric G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552
Tomlin, Fred R ..................... 552
De Baere, Jean G ........ ...... ..... 556
Towery, Gary W ................ . ... 556
Van Winkle, Paul J ........ . .. .. ..... 556
Echelberger, Clarence J . . . . ......... 557
Iott, John F ........................ 557
Nishikawa, James N. . . . . . . . . . . . .... 557
Patmore, Glenn T ................... 557
Richmond, Guy S ....... .... ..... . .. 557
Salas, Mario ...... ................. 557
Simmons, Neil F .................... 557
Beddoe, Allen S .................... 561
Pederson, James G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
Eusebio, Alejandrino A ............. . 567
Fenn, Samuel J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567
Hulsey, Anhur T ................... 567
Turek, Alben J.E....... ..... ... .. ... 567
Black, Clinton R ................ .... 574
Hale, Norman E ....... ...... ....... 574

Member

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Ldg. No.

Haslim, David A ....... .. ....... .. . . 574
Lyakov, Dimiter K. ................. 574
Lynn, Gerald R ..................... 574
Balke, Lewis G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
Bessent, Billy G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
Frost, Richard D ... ................. 576
Mease, Paul L .......... .... .. .... .. 576
Montanelli, John R ...................576
Hart, Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
Larsen, Oliver H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
Zuckett, Hans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
Larimer, Richard E .................. 579
Minor, Lloyd D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
Rae, Duane H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579
Scott, Daniel W .................... 579
Seirer, Willie L ....... . ....... .. .... 579
Biggs, William A ................... 580
Blackwood, William H ............... 580
Coyle, Larry W ........ .. ........... 580
Mc Cleary, Paul E ... ...... ......... 580
Regnier, Douglas G ............ . .... 580
Waldron, Leonard D . ................ 583
Woolley, WalterU .................. 583
Henville, Roy J .............. . ...... 588
Kahvedjian, Hovannes ............... 588
Robens, David M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588
Robens, Jack E. . .............. . ... . 588
Bowman, Eugene H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Dias, Louis L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Guyer, Larry G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Allen, James P ........... .. . ..... .. 591
Armstrong, V. Kent ..... ............ 591
Shannon, Rohen E . .. ............... 591
Solari, Charles M ................... 591
Hayden, Alexander W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 592
Hernandez, Gani R. ................ . 592
Nielsen, Paul T ......... . ........... 592
Dunn, Ralph S .. .......... . .. . ..... 595
Marco, Sol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595
Smith, Byron A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595
Falkenstrom, James E ................ 601
Denbow, David H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
Housley, William E ................. 604
Paris, Jack D ..... . .. .. . . . .......... 604
Swaim, John E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604
Webb, Dixon J ..................... 604
Drew, Byron A ............•.. .... .. 609
Mereness, Fenton R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
Ward, Clarence E . ...... . .. . ........ 609
Cunningham, James V ............... 611
Hahs, John C ................. . .... 611
Helwig, Alben E ....... ... .. ....... 611
Ohlaug, Raymond 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Member

Ldg. No.

Bates, Loren C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Fitch, William H .............. ...... 613
Real, James W ........ ............. 613
Schierenberg, Henry G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Aquino, Romulo L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Bustamante, Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Commons, Harry G ......... . .. ... .. 614
Dandridge, Vernon M ...... . ........ 614
De Castro, Leonardo M .............. 614
Hernandez, Anhur ............ ..... . 614
Lavares, Jose S. . ..... . ...... . ..... . 614
Munda, Guillermo P................. 614
Rosario, Dexter B. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Seeley,JamesJ ........... .......... 614
Simpao, Godfredo H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Zari, Reuben B ..................... 614
Crosby, Norman M ...... ............ 615
Hagans, Jerry C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Palmer, Rohen A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Preslan, Howard D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Siems, Rodger D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Whitener, JamesS .............. . . .. 615
Longbrake, Eugene H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
Lookinbee, Lawrence D....... ....... 617
Stanfield, George I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
Henderson, Jesse G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Johnstone, Donaldson M . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Layton, Fred L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Manocchia, John S ..•. . ..... .. . .... . 618
Passarelli, Camillo L ...... ......... . 618
Pruett, Charles W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Ross, VernonG .......... .......... 618
Shaver, Clark E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
Torgerson, Wayne D. . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 618
Barber, George B ... ................ 620
Frankel, Marvin V ........ .. ........ . 620
Freyer, Rohen A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
Geanoulis, George L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
Miller, Allen C . . ........... . ... .... 620
ToplilT, Clifford C ...... ... . ......... 620
Beers, Jack G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Christenson, Otto L . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 625
Gale, George F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Patton, Kenneth T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Ross, Roger S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Ary, Michael B ........ ....... . .. ... 626
Bergstrom, Duane E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Dysart, James L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Parker, William F .. . ... .. .. ......... 626
Coronel, Renato M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 632
Tojino, Arnold F ...... ... ... ....... 632
Vergne, Thomas B ... . ............ . . 632
Brackett, Barry R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633

Member

435
Ldg. No.

Scott, William G ............. ... .... 633
Weitzel, Norman T ....... . .. .... .... 633
Gilmore, James W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634
Hardy, John M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634
Lawler, Ricky L . ................... 635
Magee, Thomas W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635
Newman, Ralph E ..... .. . .......... 635
Stephens, Irving P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635
Croyle, Benny D .................... 648
Covert, Donovan H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
Duran, Charles ..................... 651
Haggerty, Richard L ................. 651
Haskins, Eugene C .... . ............. 651
Hennig, Paul D ........ .......... . .. 651
Olivera, Edward P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
Singley, Roy G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
Case, Donald G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
Wold, David C .... .... .... ......... 653
Wolf, Charles J ......... . ....... • ... 653
Hutchison, William W .. ... ..... ..... 657
Johnston, Douglas W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 657
Giesler, Charles L ........... ........ 659
Heyer, Frank F ...... .. ....... . ..... 659
Tucker, George . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 660
Atkinson, Ian D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 663
Chew, Kenneth W .................. 666
Cunningham, John S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666
Ferguson, Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666
Fisher, Frank E ............. .. . ..... 666
Perez, Moreno S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666
Perry, Gordon E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666
Smith, Charles N . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 666
Goodman, Lloyd J .......•.... ....... 668
Johnson, John R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 668
Kinnevey, Rohen K ........ ......... 668
Abi-khalil, Edgard ...... ... .... ..... 670
Biggers, Rohen M ..... ..... .... ... . 670
Robens, J. Norman ......... . ........ 670
Strong, Lee A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 70
Zietouny, Camille S . ................ 670
Derby, Thomas R ........•.......... 671
Gainor, Andrew J .............. .... . 671
Lowe, John F ................. ..... 671
Pressey, Mark E ........ . .. ......... 671
Schrock, Mark E . ................... 671
Scibuola, Frederick A.P .............. 671
Spiegel, Samuel ........... ......... 671
Lindsey, Victor A ....... . .... ....... 674
Siegel, Joseph A .................... 674
Yellin, Stanley S . .................. . 674
Benyamini, Paul A. .. . .. .. . . ........ 675
Hart, Gordon M .................... 675
Stroud, Donald W ................... 675

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ldg. No.
Member
Buntin, Thomas J . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676
Dietz, Noel T ...................... 676
Locke, Donald J ..... ............... 676
Meyers, Richard A ............ ...... 676
Scott, Craig T . . ..... ... ........ . ... 676
Cole, Richard A ..... .. ............. 677
Farlee, David H .................... 677
Lytle, Howard C ................... . 677
Marsellos, Michael M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Mc Ginnis, Roy E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Merrell, Floyd L ..... ..... . ....... .. 677
Ostrom, Alfred S .. . ........ ...... .. 677
Pearson, Robert A .. ..... ... . ....... 677
Roten, Gaylord R ..... . ... . ......... 677
Roten, Gaylord V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Sturdevant, Robert J ................. 677
Vanicek, John W ................... 677
Wood, Paul .... . ... .. ... . . . ........ 680
Mc Coy, Melvin L . .........•.. . • ... 682
Wright, Vincent I .......... . .. ... ... 682
Zilkan, Hany J . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. 682
Dailey, Merle L .......... . . ........ 683
Wallen, Hardy W ......... . ..... .. .. 683
Bryan, Lester W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Eichner, Jeff H. . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . 686
Luy, Max . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Markert, Donald T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Owens, Jacky R ............... .. ... 686
Sorensen, Robert L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 686
Card, Melvin E ..................... 687
Matthews, Miles M ...... ........... 687
Mc Lintock, Robert R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 687
Wohlfarth, Jerrold A ................ 687
Chantler, William T ...... .......... . 690
Mc Millan, Lester G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Nowell, Dale W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Johansen, Bruce D .............. ... . 691
Ludy, Robert L ..................... 691
Thurm, Raymond D . .... . ........... 691
Gibson, Mark N ................ .. . . 693
Adams, Steven R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
Denney, George M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695
Denney, John D ... . ................ 695
Billena, Urbano B ................... 696
Abutin, Reynante P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Barela, Angel B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71 O
Garcia, Augusto A . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Marshall, Walter B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
McCrory, James J ......... .. ....... 711
Buschek, Gregory D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712
Clarke, Edwin D..... .. .... ......... 712
Fentum, EdgarW . ... .............. . 712
Mc Daniel, Dan R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 712

Ldg. No.
Member
Mc Mahon, Cloyd E . . ......... .... . . 712
Scott, Douglas A ......... ..... .. .. . 712
Meador, Charles D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Seamans, Bernard R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Spangler, Edward B . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 719
Dash, Ralph B ..... . ....... . ... .. .. 721
Herman, Sidney L . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 721
Hernandez, Rafael . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Singer, Russell E ................... 721
Taub, Stanley R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 721
Courtright, John A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Silvernail, Edward L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Southard, Leon S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Boone, Charles H ..... . ......... .. . . 728
Lember, Charles R ..... . . . .......... 728
Boxell, William H .................. 732
Charles, Ronald M ..... . ...... . . . ... 732
Dunn, Richard E .... ... ... . . ... ..... 732
Macauley, Gary R ........... .. . . ... 732
Riegelhuth, Edward J ..... . .......... 732
Veale, Douglas S .. ..... ..... . ... ... 732
Werle, Harold R ...... .. ..... .. . .... 732
De Guzman, Edgardo . ............ . .. 735
Kornegay, James M .............. . .. 735
Terry, James D .... . .. ......... ..... 735
Chavez, Richard .................... 736
Hollowell, David C . . . .. ... ... . . .... 747
Meyer, Jurgen K ..... . .... ... . ..... . 748
Newcome, Donald E .... . . .... ....... 748
Dolphin, Patrick J .......... . ........ 753
Earnest, Richard C .... . ...... . . . .. .. 753
Muller, Leo R . . ..... ... ........ . . . . 753
Schultz, Lester E...... . ...... . ... . .. 753
Bagley, Grover C ..... . .... ......... 760
Biggs, Bruce W ...... ..... . . .... ... 760
Gillard, Eugene P ..... . .. ... . ....... 760
Herbert, Charles H .... .. ........ .. .. 760
Mitchell, Charles T . ........ .... ..... 760
Saber, Henry B . ......... .. .... ..... 760
Stites, David A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 760
Barrows, Jackson M .. ...... ... .. ... . 762
Murray, Roger S .... .......... . ..... 762
Nance, Roger J. . . ... .. ......... .... 762
Gosioco, Fernando L ....... ... ...... 767
Vizmonte, Nicanor T... . ......... . ... 767
Howell, Glendon L . .. ...... ... . . .... 769
Howell, Johnny L .. ........ . ...... .. 769
Macy, Harold A ..... . ........ . . . ... 769
Schuster, John M ......... .... ...... 769
Stocking, James E . ... ......... .. ... 769
Adams, Raymond A . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . 771
Fisher, Eugene L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771
May, Harlin C ........... . . ... . .. . .. 771

GRAND LOIXiE OF CALIFORNIA
Ldg. No.
Member
Reget, James R ... . ....... ... ....... 771
Wright, G. Fredrick ............ .... . 771
Maurer, Eugene D ........... . ... . .. 775
Branch, William H .................. 780
Collins, Richard J .... . ..... . ........ 780
Dumont, Howard J ... . .... . ........ . 786
Luce, David E ....... . . . ........ ... . 786
Sellman, William L ..... . ...... .. ... 786
Lagunoff, Alan L . .................. 788
Matthews, James W . ...... . .. . ...... 788
Mitchell, Joseph S ...... . .. . .. ... . .. 788
Obernolte, Ronald P ....... . ......... 788
Andrews, Edgar 0 .......... . ... . ... 789
Burghgrave, Rene J ....... .. . . ...... 789
Clemons, Arthur C .... .... .... . ..... 789
Delaney, Carl R .............. ...... 789
Gilley, Gary D ........ ........ .... . 789
Houston, Richard A ... ... ........... 789
Hughes, Leeton E ....... ... .. ....... 789
Kidwell, Ronald E .................. 789
Lewis, Howard E .. . . .. . ... . ........ 789
Mc Kee, David L ................... 789
Miller, Jay H .. . ........ . ... . ...... 789
Richey, James C.... . . .. ... . ... . .... 789
Mathis, Stephen A ............ ...... 791
Mc Vey, Billy A .................... 791
Mc Vey, Terry A .......... .. ... .... 791
Tomkins, Alan D ....... . . ... ....... 791
Miranda, Daniel V .. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793
Hanawalt, Hudson D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
Reynolds, David G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795
Dedrick, Richard E. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799
Mercer, Myron L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799
Rentie, Norman L ........... . ....... 799
Rayser, Dr. V. Fred ....... .. ... .. . .. 802
Allen, Delmar ... . .... . .... . .... . ... 804
Ethridge, Eugene L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Murr, David B ............... .... . . 804
Smith, David W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Argue, John A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Johnson, David D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Reed, Westel R .. . ..... ...... .. .. . .. 807
Schwartz, Jerrold J . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Wallingford, Lynn R .. . .... . .. ...... 807
Shira, David M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Bobo, James B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 813
Bowles, Billy N . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Chandler, Gerald L . ... ...... ... ..... 813
Haller, Austin P ........... . .. .... .. 813
Ivie, A. Bruce .. . ... ..... . . .. . . ..... 813
Luskleet, Richard E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Rennels, Brody L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Reuter, Charles A ............. . ..... 813

437

Ldg. No.
Member
Armstrong, John B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Malan, Frank A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Bearden, Chad W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Bearden, Winston F . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
De Jong, Dirk H . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Campbell, William F . .. ............. 824
Vadbunker, David R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Gibson, Philip D ................ .... 825
Lumm, George R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Martinez, Lorenzo U . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 825
Williams, Robert A ............ . .... 825
Mc Kinney, Thomas G ....... ....... . 827
Roseberry, Joseph P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Bolen, John W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Bradley, Lawrence M .............. .. 830
Fish, Howard C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Nicholls, E. Robert ... .. ............. 830
De Luna, Jose J ........... .. ....... 837
Fisher, Howard S ..... .. .... .. .. ... . 837
Heafner, David L ..... . ..... .... .... 837
Ogot, Maynard L . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Santos, Crisanto G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Tan, Jeffredo D ............. . ...... . 839
Martinez, Jose ... .... .... . . .. .. . . . . 842
Pedretti, Lany P . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Mc lndoe, James E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Pereira, Manuel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Runcie, John W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Wong, Alvin ............... .. .... . . 844
Goldman, Eugene L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Gutierrez, Fred A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Mc Gill, Howard L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845

STATISTICAL TABLE OF CONSTITUEN T LODGES

"'"

w
oc

Showing Membership Totals, Charter Dates, Degree Fees, Affiliation Fees, Dues, Life Membership, Degrees
Conferred and Per Capita Payments.
Grand Lodge per capita for the 1998-99 Grand Lodge year includes $16.19 for Grand Lodge, $1.00 for Special
Public Relations Program Assessment, and $1 .25 for publication of the California Freemason Magazine, for a total of
$18.44.
The membership totals apply to the year ending June 30, 1998.
For location of Lodges, see "Alphabetical List of Lodges."
Memben

No.

1997

1998

Ch1rter
Issued

Occidental-California

I

S06

490

18SO

100

Western Star

2

212

204

18SO

100

Tehama

3

340

319

18SO

100

Lodi:e

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

0

18

. JO

S4

10

G.L.
Per Capita

1

p

ALT

s

0

3

9,024 .88

37S

7

s

6

4,067.16

2S

0

4

3

I

S,891.36

R

Sublime-Benicia

s

338

329

18SO

161

2S

40

840

12

10

11

6,S86.68

Tuolumne

8

222

21S

18SO

100

so

0

2

1

0

3,841.76

36

ALT

2

2

I

4,453 .28

30

37S

0

6

0

4,737 .60

40

840

3

3

2

4,409.60

Corinthian-Hammonto n

9

2S8

240

18SO

7S

San Jose

10

284

264

18SO

7S

s
s
s

Yount

12

2S4

243

1850

12S

0

Nevada

13

339

326

18SI

100

0

20

0

11

7

6

S,983 .24

Temple

14

132

129

18SI

111

2

30

0

0

3

2

2,414.32

3

3

S,6S7 .20

Eureka

16

324

311

18SI

200

20

so

0

s

La Parfaite Union .

17

70

66

18S2

100

IS

IS

0

0

I

I

1,237.48

Mountain Shade

18

34

31

18S2

7S

s

2S

0

0

0

0

S71.64

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita

7

8

S,344.04

I

2

6,470.48

2

2

3,410.64

0

I

3,071.40

Memben
San Joaquin

19

412

304

1852

12S

10

so

0

Washington

20

373

3Sl

18S2

12S

10

36

800

Madison

23

190

18S

18S3

139

0

30

330

s
s
s

Mariposa

24

IS8

160

18S3

90

0

30

630

3

Georgetown

2S

1S

74

18S3

• 103

0

60

0

2

0

2

1,407.S6

El Dorado

26

269

304

18S3

100

0

40

0

20

19

16

S,827.00

~

I
~

~

Trinity

27

IS3

ISi

18S3

12S

0

SS

900

0

I

I

2,768.00

Golden Gate Speranza

30

302

277

18S3

100

10

2S

S20

4

4

3

S,108.92

Penrhyn Gold Hill

32

IS4

IS3

18S3

6S

2

3S

0

4

2

2

2,846.88

Ophir Bear Mountain

33

17S

16S

18S3

100

10

4S

0

I

3

2

3,012.84

San Diego

3S

934

916

18S3

100

0

40

900

13

12

9

16,713.32

Howard

37

172

163

so

~

18S4

I

36

S28

2

0

I

3,034.84

'Tl

Santa Cruz San Lorenzo
Valley

38

341

293

18S4

100

I

40

840

4

2

2

S,228.64

Sacramento

40

321

303

18S4

100

10

60

ALT

8

s

6

S,462 .68

Martinez

41

240

237

18S4

111

0

60

0

6

6

6

4,430.40

Los Angeles Silver Trowel

42

711

612

18S4

100

10

so

0

0

I

0

12,S9S.S2

Hiram

43

189

192

18S4

111

10

2S

ALT

4

3

3

3,667.48

Crescent

4S

122

120

18S4

ISO

10

so

0

I

2

2

2,236.24

Cl

~

0

t""'

0

0

(')

Texas

46

S6

S4

18S4

so

s

36

620

0

0

0

99S.76

Forbestown

so

102

99

18S4

llS

10

30

S20ALT

0

0

0

1,876. 12

Illinoistown

SI

87

87

18S4

60

0

3S

0

3

3

3

1,63S.96

Suisun

S5

2SS

247

18SS

llS

0

60

1260

7

4

7

4,760.48

10

70

0

0

0

0

2,636.92

100

0

8

6

6

8,829.76

Volcano

S6

IS6

143

18SS

12S

Santa Rosa Luther Burbank

S7

2S2

488

18SS

ISO

s

>

c'Tl

~

>

"'"

w

\C

Members
Lodge

No.

1997

Union Kit Carson

58

296

1998

Charter
Issued

280

1855

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

100

10

45

1125

G.L.
p

R

2

3

3

5,090.80

0

0

0

0

903 .56

I

Per Capita

1855

50

0

45

74

1855

75

2

40

0

2

2

1

1,351.12

603

1855

75

1

20

ALT

7

6

7

11,416.40

1855

100

5

20

0

10

8

7

6,840.84

25

0

1

1

3

1,610.40
8,342.88

Gravel Range

59

Plumas

60

76

Live Oak

61

629

Natoma

64

373

363

49

Degree
Fees

49

88

87

1855

60

5

68

509

460

1855

100

0

40

693

1

2

5

70

283

286

1855

91

5

50

1050

6

3

3

5,452.64

Calaveras

78

105

109

1855

85

10

24

0

7

8

8

2,181.96

Humboldt

79

183

181

1855

80

5

75

0

1

3

5

3,411.20

Ione

80

72

71

1856

100

0

50

0

2

I

1

1,239.48

Woodland

81

206

245

1856

50

0

45

ALT

15

7

12

5,007.72

Amador

65

Morning Star
Enterprise

Vesper

84

180

185

1856

115

0

32

ALT

2

2

2

3,532.28

87

638

595

1856

90

10

32

ALT

1

3

3

10,921.36

North Star

91

74

71

1856

50

5

40

0

0

0

0

1,364.56

Napa Valley

93

260

251

1856

60

2

25

600

4

3

0

4,622. 16

Henry Clay

95

82

80

1856

50

10

25

0

1

2

4

1,385.76

Homitos

98

93

90

1856

90

10

40

0

3

6

4

1,619.84

Yosemite

99

324

315

1856

90

0

40

833 .33

3

7

5

5,922 .16

Clay

101

66

65

1856

95

5

25

500

0

0

0

1, 124 .84

Oroville

103

381

366

1856

125

5

42

ALT

7

6

4

6,711.72

Lexington

104

276

265

1856

125

5

42

0

2

2

4

4,850.08

Arcata

106

183

182

1857

75

0

60

ALT

0

I

0

3,374 .52
4,550.48

242

1857

150

0

35

ALT

2

4

4

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

111

487

466

1857

90

0

60

924

4

3

3

112

102

97

1857

50

5

35

521.88

3

2

5

1,757.68

Eden Standard

113

167

175

1857

105

0

50

ALT

1

2

3

3,012 .92

Concord

117

111

112

1857

J15

10

32

0

3

6

6

2,043.40

San Francisco

120

309

850

1858

100

15

30

630

2

4

4

15,742.56
4,267 .76

110

255

Lodge

No.

Chico-Leland Stanford
Summit

Members

~

m

~

Cl
Vl

Naval

Soquel-Pajaro

~
~

0

~

~

G.L.
Per Capita
8,547 .72

Alamo

122

255

250

1858

75

0

48

775

2

1

3

Sotoyome-Curtis

123

172

160

1858

105

10

40

0

2

2

0

2,933 .96

Table Mountain

124

316

306

1858

80

10

45

0

6

6

7

5,571.44

La Fayette

126

132

~

132

1858

75

10

40

ALT

3

4

4

2,330.68

l'

Hermann

127

40

41

1858

150

30

30

0

0

0

0

737.60

Visalia

128

283

287

1859

75

0

75

1125

1

I

2

5,126.32

Nicolaus

129

121

115

1859

75

5

30

0

6

4

I

2,132.60

Woodbridge

131

246

246

1859

50

0

20

0

9

9

5

4,858.48

Sincerity

132

51

46

1859

135

5

40

0

0

0

0

735 .48

Vacaville

134

68

219

1859

161

10

64

1344

1

2

3

4,009.60

Valley

135

233

65

1860

50

12

25

0

0

0

0

1,198.60

Lebanon-Pacific

136

543

488

1860

100

20

20

416.66

3

3

2

9,086.84

San Francisco

139

564

0

1860

Grafton

141

69

0

1860

Franklin

143

64

63

1861

115

14

75

0

9

3

2

1,365.72

Oriental

144

162

158

1861

100

10

30

ALT

4

2

2

2,807.76

0

0

8
m

.,,0

(')

~
Cl
~

>

Consolidated with Fidelity No. 120 as San Francisco No. 120.
Consolidated with Woodland No. 81 as Woodland No. 81 .

Vitruvius

145

83

75

1861

75

0

30

0

0

0

I

1,125.84

Abell

146

204

191

1861

100

0

36

ALT

0

I

2.

3,543 .48

Eel River

147

148

143

1861

60

0

36

ALT

1

I

I

2,603 .04

~
~

Members

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

1862

75

0

50

0

2

2

3

2,539.96

69

1862

65

2.5

35

0

0

0

0

1,272.36

39

1863

75

10

30

750

0

0

0

719.16

12

0

0

0

0

405.68

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Lassen Janesville

149

135

132

Molino

150

78

Keystone

161

43

G.L
Per Capita

Degree
Fees

Lodge

Hannony

164

25

22

1863

50

5

Alameda

167

273

266

1864

165

5

55

0

I

5

8

4,897.16

Redwood City

168

240

220

1864

100

I

50

ALT

3

3

I

3,942.08

Mission

169

290

280

1864

100

50

18

ALT

4

6

4

5,348.64

10

48

ALT

5

3

4

3,802.80

5

100

0

I

I

3

686.28

3

I

5,726.92

Elk Grove

173

192

194

1864

l ll

Drytown

174

39

38

1865

61

48

1000

8

175

300

290

1865

75

0

San Bernardino

178

715

654

1866

75

5

27

575

4

3

7

ll,628.00

Mendocino

179

126

113

1866

125

10

40

ALT

2

I

I

2,130.84

Petaluma-Hamilton

180

274

269

1866

100

0

36

0

0

0

I

4,795.40
1,348.12

Antioch-Brentwood

Russian River

181

75

73

1866

76

5

25

ALT

0

I

I

Tuscan-Maxwell

182

85

82

1867

so

I

40

0

0

0

0

1,530.52

Clear Lake-Callayomi

183

212

191

1867

115

0

50

0

3

2

2

3,654 .60

25

36

0

I

I

I

537.76

0

903.56
664.84

Sierra Valley

184

32

30

1867

50

Claiborne

185

49

49

1867

50

5

36

0

0

0

Evening Star

186

35

37

1867

100

10

40

0

0

0

I

Keith

187

88

89

1868

61

2

30

625

I

0

I

1,586.84

16

500

2

I

I

5,480.68

48

1000

0

0

0

1,862.44
3,785.32

Oakland Durant Rockridge

188

325

307

1868

Ill

I

Northern Light

190

ll6

106

1868

100

5

191

230

204

1868

150

10

40

840

2

I

I

Santa Barbara

192

196

189

1868

100

0

60

ALT

7

2

3

3,441.96

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita

Ferndale

193

60

58

1869

50

0

30

0

0

0

0

1,069.52

Mountain View

194

169

164

1869

100

5

60

ALT

0

2

2

3,046.60

Marin

Members

Landmark-Buckeye

195

113

ll4

1869

85

25

26

ALT

3

2

I

2,169.84

San Simeon

196

66

62

1869

100

0

60

0

I

I

2

1,128.84

Angels Gate

198

383

342

1869

175

0

50

ALT

2

2

2

6,063.00

Hartley

199

117

109

1869

100

15

46

756

0

0

0

2,009.96

t

N

~
tT1

m

~
"'0'Tl
Cl

~

0

Truckee

200

71

70

1869

131

10

35

0

0

0

0

1,309.24

Athens-Silveyville

201

166

169

1869

90

5

30

0

5

2

2

3,209.72

Wisdom

202

485

441

1869

~

150

25

36

ALT

5

2

2

8,311.36

Confidence

r-

0

41

ALT

3

4

I

1,121.76

203

51

54

1869

75

Salinas

204

325

310

1869

105

0

47

ALT

I

2

3

5,685.52

Olivet

205

84

82

1870

50

0

25

0

0

0

0

1,475.20

Stanislaus

206

262

242

1870

115

0

60

ALT

2

I

I

4,451.28

Anaheim Azure

207

419

363

1870

150

0

60

ALT

7

6

3

6,294.44

Rio Vista

208

64

56

1870

100

26

25

0

I

0

0

1,072.64

King David's

209

230

217

1870

100

I

50

1050

2

4

4

3,989.84

Friendship

210

290

275

1871

111

25

48

ALT

6

4

3

4,915 .92

San Benito

211

73

75

1871

65

I

30

0

I

I

I

1,406.56

Crocker

212

296

295

1871

100

10

12

750

8

10

13

5,784.80

San Buenaventura

214

221

213

1871

100

0

60

0

I

2

I

3,731.00

Island City

215

692

658

1871

JOO

15

25

525

5

7

6

12,065.88

Monterey

217

154

145

1871

75

0

50

ALT

2

2

I

2,720.92

Mosaic

218

214

200

1872

115

0

72

0

4

3

4 •

3,616.28

Downey United

220

958

888

1872

125

0

30

1050

5

4

2

16,639.48

0

0

~

~
(')

~

~

>

.,...,..
w

Memben;

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

1872

75

10

48

0

I

I

I

1,164.72

100

10

40

0

10

8

6

7,509 .88

100

0

60

1355

2

I

I

4,692.00

0

0

3,596.80

No.

1997

1998

Issued

Inyo

221

63

62

Roseville

222

424

406

1872

Bakersfield

224

268

251

1873

65

ALT

5

4

3

3,802.80

0

45

940

0

0

0

3,005 .72

0

20

0

0

I

I

610 .52

0

980 .44
682 .28

204

1873

180

1873

75

1874

50

200

San Mateo

226

219

North Butte

230

164

163

Covelo

231

37

34

I

50

10

223

R

ALT

100

225

p

I

40

1873

San Leandro-Brooklyn

G.L.
Per Capita

Degree
Fees

Charter

Lo dee

""""
""

Hope

234

59

52

1874

50

0

36

0

I

0

Surprise Valley

235

45

37

1874

75

5

15

0

0

0

0

Livingston Hills Ferry

236

154

146

1874

75

5

20

0

2

3

4

2,853 .00

0

52

0

2

0

I

2,641.04

10

36

0

0

I

0

1,807.12
3,977.60

0...,

~

Guadalupe

237

150

142

1874

115

Colusa

240

101

97

1876

50

48

Tustin

241

219

223

1876

IOI

Magnolia-La Cumbre

242

292

285

1876

100

0

40

458

1876

150

0

30

Acacia

243

504

10

5

4

4

0

6

6

3

5,060.92

0

2

I

I

8,293 .36

6

6

3

2,495.56

3

0

2, 146.16

ALT

Alcatraz

244

136

131

1877

90

10

72

1042

Orland Laurel

245

140

132

1877

80

10

35

0

I

Pomona

246

156

160

1877

115

35

50

ALT

6

8

9

3,001.20

1878

100

0

44

875

7

10

7

12,780.24

1878

50

25

40

0

0

0

0

1,272.36

I

0

I

2,565 .16
4,491.04

Fresno

247

712

696

Alturas

248

76

69

Fort Crook

250

141

139

1878

100

5

25

ALT

Reading

254

264

252

1879

90

0

66

1375

I

I

3

303

313

1879

100

0

50

ALT

8

3

II

5,931.52

204

1879

75

0

40

835

7

5

4

4,021.44

Charter
Issued

Decree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita

Welcome

255

Lodi

256

210

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Memben
Evergreen

259

445

438

1880

117

0

65

1355

0

0

0

Lompoc

262

218

215

1881

100

25

52

1092

I

4

3

3,905.40

Hesperian

264

264

262

1882

100

0

50

0

2

I

2

4,676.80

Olive Branch

269

164

152

1883

75

0

54

ALT

I

I

I

2,697 .36

Snow Mountain

271

24

23

1884 •

75

0

18

0

0

0

0

405 .68

Pasadena

272

768

735

1884

115

0

35

1050

9

4

8

12,146.56

Golden Trowel

273

872

790

1884

125

0

30

0

I

I

2

14,260.24

Arroyo

274

142

141

1884

100

0

60

0

I

I

2

2,587 .72

Oakdale

275

139

129

1884

114

10

50

ALT

I

0

2

2,420.76

Selma

277

213

187

1885

80

0

42

0

2

I

0

3,554.28

Arcadia

278

602

577

1885

125

25

50

ALT

I

2

2

10,296.64

Hanford

279

163

159

1885

Ill

0

25

ALT

2

2

2

2,902.08

Madera

280

248

208

1885

125

0

60

1320

I

3

2

3,693.00

Mount Shasta

281

140

137

1886

90

0

48

0

3

5

5

2,613.28

South West

283

416

422

1887

135

0

48

1008

15

19

21

7,682.92

Paso Robles

286

181

178

1887

75

3

55

0

2

0

0

3,262.76

Winnedumah

287

165

152

1887

100

0

50

ALT

I

I

I

2,752.56

Elsinore

289

113

119

1888

IOI

0

60

0

2

I

5

2,305 .36

South Pasadena

290

904

838

1888

125

0

30

ALT

10

10

8

15,099.72

Fillmore-Santa Paula

291

294

270

1888

90

0

50

0

I

0

0

4,831.28

Los Gatos-George E. Tutt

292

381

343

1888

115

10

50

ALT

0

2

3

6,016.44

Orange Grove

293

373

366

1889

115

10

30

ALT

9

16

14

7,045 .64

Clarence L. Fraser ·

294

125

132

1889

80

10

30

625

2

0

0

2,483.76

Mount Jackson

295

65

69

1889

85

5

35

0

I

2

2

1,316.36

"tl

R

m
m
0

~

8,076.72

C')

~

t""'

0

~

0...,

~
~

::;;

>

""""

UI

Members
Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita
5,241.44

Silver Gate

296

345

284

1889

115

25

40

ALT

3

2

5

Dunsmuir-McCloud

297

112

103

1889

60

0

35

0

2

I

I

1,926.00

Liberty

299

243

246

1890

125

10

30

630

6

9

8

4,392.28

Redlands

300

246

229

1890

150

0

54

1008ALT

0

2

3

4,098.68

Ontario

301

167

158

1890

120

0

50

1050

7

6

6

2,916.20

Santa Lucia

302

92

86

1890

75

0

50

0

I

0

I

1,659.60

Porterville-Lindsay

303

321

310

1890

50

0

48

0

0

0

I

5,588.32

Foothill

305

221

201

1891

115

0

46

0

0

I

0

3,558.92

Inland Empire

306

400

397

1891

111

25

40

1150

0

0

0

7,320.68

Santa Monica-Palisades

307

431

410

1891

125

0

48

ALT

13

12

9

7,386.64

Delano

309

89

84

1891

100

0

36

0

0

0

0

1,493.64

Sisson-White Pine

310

100

91

1892

75

0

55

0

0

0

0

1,678.04

Los Banos

312

80

79

1892

75

20

45

0

I

0

0

1,496.76

Tehachapi

313

135

130

1892

125

0

65

0

3

3

2

2,537.64

Temescal Palms

314

263

325

1893

115

20

55

0

6

3

6

5,955.88

Norwalk

315

531

503

1893

139

0

25

ALT

I

3

2

9,024.28

Sanger

316

122

119

1893

75

0

30

0

I

0

0

2,234.36

Fallbrook

317

184

188

1893

90

5

55

ALT

3

4

3

3,618.72

Bellflower

320

364

353

1894

161

0

30

630

0

2

2

6,237.72

Alisal-Sequoia San Ramon

321

481

570

1894

140

0

60

0

4

I

4

10,534.36

Alhambra

322

552

525

1894

100

JO

20

ALT

2

2

0

9,343.32

Whittier

323

251

225

1895

153

25

48

1008

0

0

I

3,965.60

Consuelo

325

440

429

1895

120

25

55

1150

5

4

6

7,780.36

Needles

326

98

96

1896

122.5

I

60

0

0

0

0

1,801.80

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

Long Beach

327

1344

1203

1896

150

25

48

ALT

7

7

12

22,407.32

Redondo

328

411

390

1897

125

0

36

ALT

4

2

4

7,016.20

Vallee de France

329

60

61

1897

139

0

30

630

0

I

2

1,127.84

Pacific Grove

331

208

191

1897

75

0

45

0

0

I

2

3,432.84

Los Angeles Harbor

332

477

454

1897

160

0

27

600

3

3

3

8,196.36

2

I

I

6,222.52

Members

Covina

334

345

333

1898

115

0

48

1000

t

°'

"ti

~

tTl
tTl

~

@
~
-l

fii

G.L.
Per Capita

Fruitvale

336

209

196

1899

JOO

5

28

585

5

3

2

3,782.36

Bay Cities

337

288

494

1899

120

0

40

0

2

I

3

8,990.52

San Jacinto

338

76

84

1899

IOI

0

45

0

0

0

0

1,383.00

Gateway

339

320

295

1900

125

0

42

ALT

3

2

8

5,370.28

Oxnard

341

266

233

1901

125

35

50

0

0

I

2

4,225.76

San Fernando

343

262

247

1902

161

0

60

0

2

5

2

4,397.72

Starr King

344

481

451

1902

150

25

35

0

6

5

3

7,958.32

Palo Alto-Roller

346

321

298

1902

100

5

24

ALT

4

4

I

5,381.60

4

7

7,024.20

3

I

10,354.96

El Portal

347

402

385

1902

114

0

24

ALT

4

Acacia Grove

351

154

608

1903

120

10

40

0

4

Metropolitan

352

280

265

1903

115

0

12

ALT

4

3

2

4,959.50

Hollywood

355

482

445

1903

125

0

45

ALT

10

13

7

7,691.92

Mill Valley

356

138

134

1903

100

0

36

750

4

4

2

2,508.88

Solomon's Staircase

357

563

541

1903

135

10

60

ALT

8

6

10

9,768.40

Charity Jarman

362

372

357

1904

100

0

40

ALT

0

0

0

6,583.08

Berkeley

363

273

249

1904

125

15

40

ALT

I

I

I

4,541.36

Willits

365

104

90

1905

75

I

48

0

0

I

I

1,643.16

Las Palmas-Ponderosa

366

717

693

1905

136

10

60

1260

6

4

5

12,189.52

0

~

~
g
~

~

>

.j:>.
.j:>.

-..J

Members
1998

Charter
Issued

922

844

36S

349

370

S84

S2I

Gardena-Ascot

372

337

Francis Drake

376

ISO

Artesia

377

Granada Hills

378

Huntington Beach
Oceanside

Decree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

190S

100

0

190S

140

0

190S

100

2S

321

1906

12S

141

1906

12S

293

273

1906

I IS

0

336

313

1906

12S

0

380

4S8

677

1906

186

2S

381

304

286

1906

200

0

86

0

so

Lodge

No.

1997

Glendale

368

Sunset

369

Brotherhood

Life
Member

I

18

ALT

40

ALT

30

s
2S

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita

4

s

4

IS,363.S6

2

2

I

6,073 .88

0

4

3

0

9,237 .80

30

62S

4

2

3

S,87S.16

60

0

I

I

0

2,S84 .72

18

378

0

0

0

S,034.12

4S

ALT

8

6

3

S,677 .20

1S

ALT

IS

11

13

11,81S.60

6S

ALT

9

3

2

S,291.08

0

0

0

0

1,143.28

Dues

Orosi

383

83

64

1907

El Centro

384

184

0

1907

Columbia

388

S66

SSI

1907

ISO

20

24

soo

8

7

6

9,810.64

International City

389

628

606

1907

12S

0

30

ALT

6

8

6

10,8S8.72

Imperial

390

83

243

1908

12S

0

2S

S20

I

I

0

4,S02.48

East Belt

391

113

96

1908

so

s

3S

0

0

0

0

1,770.24

Torrance University

394

S31

Sl1

1908

100

10

30

ALT

s

6

4

8,776.12

Consolidated with Imperial No. 390 as Imperial No. 390

39S

298

291

1908

120

0

21

437.S

2

3

4

S,416.16

399

231

197

1908

I IS

s

48

ALT

3

2

I

3,77S.12
8,242.92

Burlingame

400

46S

447

1908

100

0

38

ALT

4

2

4

Brawley

402

116

108

1909

ISO

0

48

0

2

I

I

1,861.20

Glendora

404

292

283

1909

11S

0

48

0

2

2

I

S,207.20
3,380.S6

Moneta

40S

16S

173

1909

IOS

0

18

400ALT

2

6

II

Burbank

406

373

3S3

1909

12S

10

48

0

2

I

6,08S.20

La Mesa

407

298

281

1910

12S

3

4S

ALT

s
s

3

4

4,940 .60

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Decree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita

Alta Mt. Sierra

408

191

178

1910

90

0

30

0

0

0

0

3,061.04

Perris

411

3S8

347

1910

90

0

4S

ALT

2

0

3

6,399.28

Clovis

417

392

364

1910

160

0

60

630

9

13

14

6,S39.72

147

139

1910 •

ISO

36

7SO

2

3

3

2,Sl7 .96

11

9

8

S,347.84

Elysian
Upland-Mt. Baldy

418
419

219

290

1911

!IS

40

840

tTl

~

0

'11

Fraternity

s
so

.,,

g
Vl

Turlock

Members

~
~

00

South Bay

421

368

3SS

1911

100

2S

36

ALT

2

2

I

6,49S .88

Exeter Kaweah

424

148

136

1911

90

0

7S

0

3

0

0

2,S3S .64

Holtville

42S

S8

S7

1912

7S

2S

2S

ALT

I

I

3

1,113.S2

Taft-Midway

426

2SI

236

1912

so

0

3S

0

0

I

I

4,078.24

Chino Valley

427

118

118

1912

130

0

4S

999

I

I

I

2,17S .92

San Dimas

428

149

14S

1912

90

0

48

1000

s

3

3

2,629.48

Pittsburg

429

148

133

1912

1S

0

SS

ALT

3

I

2

2S40.64

Alpha Shattuck-Stephens

431

262

0

1912

Claremont

436

126

119

1913

111

2S

so

0

0

0

0

2,30S .OO

Lancaster

437

319

306

1913

llS

0

40

0

2

2

3

S,413.04

Tyrian

439

180

180

1913

7S

0

so

0

3

0

3

3,031.20

Coronado

441

288

270

1914

100

0

36

ALT

9

13

13

S,036 .60

~

0

~tl
b

~

0

'11

(')

Consolidated with Point Pinole No. 337 as Bay Cities No. 337

~

Blackmer

442

413

38S

1914

11S

2S

so

ALT

2

I

4

6,696.72

Carpinteria

444

141

139

1914

100

0

30

ALT

0

0

0

2,S63 .16

West Covina-La Puente

446

20S

19S

1914

201

I

so

700

0

I

I

3,622.80

Diablo Valley

448

S31

SIS

1914

136

0

60

ALT

I

I

2

9,119.92

Van Nuys

4SO

787

72S

1914

12S

10

60

12SO

18

13

11

12,994.12

Montebello

4Sl

429

404

1914

100

0

30

ALT

0

2

0

7,02S .S2

Rosemead

4S1

381

36S

191S

13S

0

24

ALT

I

0

2

6,753 .04

~
~

>

~
~

'°

No.

Members
1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Aflil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

Riverbank

4S9

107

100

191S

1S

0

40

ALT

MountOso

460

149

14S

1916

llS

I

so

10SO

Lodge

R

I

I

2

1,848.00

0

3

4

2,674.80

Paul Revere

462

171

16S

1916

100

10

24

soo

2

2

2

Morgan Hill

3,0S2.84

463

106

104

1916

100

I

SI

1062.S

8

4

Libertas-Security

s

1,937.88

466

363

3S6

1917

100

3S

60

0

4

3

3

6,404.80

Culver City-Foshay

467

149

14S

1917

100

0

40

0

s

2

4

Yorba Linda

2,638.04

469

182

182

1918

100

0

36

ALT

I

2

4

3,299.08

0

2,323.44

Blythe

473

127

12S

1919

1S

s

60

0

0

0

Coachella

476

133

124

1920

1S

0

60

0

I

0

0

Golden Rule

2,176.92

479

393

369

1920

ISO

2S

1S

0

s

3

6,670.84

480

327

321

1920

130

0

60

ALT

3

s
s

6

S,947.16

Acalanes Fellowship
Chowchilla

48S

112

107

1920

1S

10

4S

ALT

0

0

0

Caledonia

1,917.76

486

39S

370

1920

100

0

80

12SO

7

Patterson

s

s

6,S84.64

488

119

118

1920

86

s

30

ALT

I

2

I

Atascadero

2,123.60

493

98

103

1920

so

0

40

0

2

2

4

Orinda

1,930.00

494

409

371

1920

100

10

48

1008

4

3

0

6,7S7.16

Capital City

499

46S

41S

1921

139

IS

40

0

0

0

I

Westwood

7,340.12

SOI

123

118

1921

80

30

3S

0

0

0

Garden Grove

sos

0

2046.84

489

0

1921

DeAnza

Sil

333

313

1921

ISO

0

SI

ALT

I

I

2

S,609.76

Cahuenga-La Brea

Sl3

122

109

1921

2SO

s

6S

937.S

0

0

0

La Jolla

2,009.96

Sl8

IS9

162

1922

llS

0

S2

978

6

4

Ionic

7

3,003.20

S20

642

630

1922

ISO

2S

60

0

7

4

6

Temecula Catalina Island

ll,96S.32

S24

8S

87

1922

200

0

60

12SO

I

0

I

l,6SS.28

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Aflil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

Beverly Hills

S28

ISO

132

1922

12S

10

2S

Southern California

S29

623

1297

1922

ISO

2S

40

Smyrna

S32

162

IS8

1922

1S

0

3S

0

Members

""

G.L.
Per Capita

p

I

VI

0

~

tT1

~

.,,0
~

Consolidated with Fountain Valley No. 3SI as Acacia Grove No. 3SI

G.L.
Per Capita

I

p

R

S46

0

0

0

2,249.68

833.33

9

s

4

23,067.64

6

6

3

2,907.08

North Hollywood

S42

307

299

1923

•140

ALT

I

2

3

S,212.64

SSI

323

793

1923

100

s
s

60

Crow Canyon

40

ALT

3

3

3

14,747.80

Semper Virens

SS2

166

163

1923

1S

SS

60

0

0

0

0

2,9S0.40

Fairfax

SS6

213

208

1923

ISO

0

47

1000

3

I

3

3,703.68

Beach Cities

SS1

149

286

1923

llS

0

28

SSS

2

2

4

4,671.44

East San Diego

S61

410

373

1923

1S

0

48

IOOS

2

2

I

6,439.68

Pacific Rim

S61

338

312

1923

100

0

30

630

4

2

0

S,749.32

Crow Canyon

S69

S02

0

1923

Consolidated with Tri Square No. SS I as Crow Canyon No. SS I

Westchester Menorah

sn

849

0

1923

Consolidated with West Gate Loyalty No. S29 as Southern California No. S29

S.W. Hackett

S74

232

21S

1923

12S

10

36

1SO

3

3

3

3,71S.44

El Cajon Valley

S16

393

38S

1923

100

0

40

ALT

6

8

6

7,081.92

Sunnyside

S77

19S

190

1923

12S

20

3S

ALT

2

0

0

3,S09.84

Warren G. Harding

S19

269

248

1924

12S

10

60

0

10

2

2

4,930.88

Santa Maria

S80

140

139

1924

llS

0

30

ALT

7

4

s

2,38S.S2

Wasco

S83

96

88

1924

llS

0

4S

0

0

0

0

1,604.28

San Marino

S88

324

311

1924

110

s

4S

ALT

2

2

2

S,726.64

Compass

S90

12S

108

1924

llS

0

0

0

0

1,991.52

S91

90

87

1924

76

IS

ALT

I

7

6

1,639.28

Tujunga

S92

126

133

1924

12S

s

so
so
so

0

Escalon

0

4

4

s

2,282.00

Composite

S9S

426

394

1924

140

IS

40

0

2

I

I

6,923.24

Grizzly

601

44

46

192S

S1

0

41

0

I

I

2

891.24

a

~

0

r

!.,,
0

(")

t

~

>

""

VI

Members
Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Ch1rter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Aflil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

1

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita

Seafaring

604

426

380

192S

llS

I

4S

ALT

7

s

4

7,237.88

Provident

609

211

200

192S

100

0

4S

0

0

0

0

3,61S.24

West Valley

611

340

32S

192S

13S

2S

ALT

0

2

2

S,867.92

Three Pillars

613

242

221

192S

100

10

so
so

ALT

0

0

I

3,984.04

Atwater Larchmont Tilas
Pass

614

316

308

192S

100

s

30

ALT

6

s

4

S,672.80

Hemet

61S

420

399

192S

120

0

so

834

6

3

9

7,463.04

WcstBeach

616

322

0

192S

Big Bear

617

116

117

192S

100

0

so

0

Magnolia Park

618

308

301

192S

12S

10

36

ALT

I

I

2

S,333.16

Point Loma

620

290

262

192S

ISS

0

60

840

4

2

3

4,730.76

N

Consolidated with Huntington Beach No. 380 as Huntington Beach No. 380
3

2

3

2,190.48

A.M. Daylight

62S

266

26S

192S

90

0

2S

0

3

3

6

4,949.40

Chula Vista

626

S14

S61

192S

12S

10

48

ALT

17

12

13

10,113.36

Normal Heights

632

348

349

1926

164

0

SS

112S

16

II

12

6,448.04

Poinsettia

633

362

343

1926

100

0

40

0

4

0

4

6,147.64

Victorville

634

280

27S

1926

136

0

48

0

6

3

4

S,008.92

Riverside

63S

27S

26S

1926

120

0

48

ALT

8

8

s

4,S73.68

Damascus

648

309

304

1926

1S

s

30

0

0

0

0

S,624.20

Three Great Lights

6SI

S36

486

1927

12S

0

48

0

8

3

3

9,0S8.40

Fontana

6S3

14S

139

1927

llS

0

6S

ALT

I

I

I

2,420.76

John D. Spreckels

6S1

232

22S

1927

llS

0

40

ALT

I

I

I

4,0S9.80

La Habra

6S9

213

197

1927

12S

0

so

0

2

2

2

3,663.36

Baldwin Park

660

147

140

1927

llS

3

30

0

3

0

0

2,4S2.S2

Ojai

663

IOI

96

1928

lOS

0

48

0

I

3

3

1,778.36

Reseda

666

437

371

1928

180

2S

60

0

3

2

I

6,663.96

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Ch1rter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

G.L.
PerC1pit1

Members

""

UI

San Gorgonio

668

170

168

1928

IOS

3

48

0

0

0

I

2,931.96

Greenleaf Gardens

670

4SO

429

1928

100

0

36

ALT

s

7

s

7,690.16

Irvine Valley

671

140

21S

1928

161

0

1S

IOSO

10

IS

II

3,974.64

Saddleback Laguna

672

188

18S

1929

llS

IS

48

1000

4

2

3

3,442.40

Los Cerritos

674

332

27S

1929

17S

0

6S

0

3

s

s

S,424.28

Modesto

61S

276

269

1929

IS4

0

60

1000

4

2

4

S,027.92

Willow Glen

676

2SO

239

1930

llS

10

18

0

0

0

0

4,339.96

Liberal Arts

677

16S

162

1930

161

10

SS

0

10

6

8

3,312.08

Canby Cross

679

18

37

193S

6S

I

20

0

0

0

0

663.84

Carmel

680

104

103

193S

1S

0

4S

0

3

0

3

1,868.44

Dos Palos

681

S8

S6

1939

ISO

20

70

0

0

0

0

1,032.64

Barstow

682

229

220

1940

100

0

S2

0

8

6

s

3,873.96

Redwood Empire

683

62

62

1940

100

I

3S

0

I

I

I

1,166.84

Tron a

684

S2

S2

1941

100

0

2S

0

0

0

0

9S8.88

El Cerrito-Albany

686

IS6

147

194S

90

0

48

0

I

2

0

2,621.60

Vista

687

247

247

194S

ISO

0

48

0

7

8

9

4,482.80

3

2

2

3,270.88
4,019.60
3,8S3.00

.

San Carlos

690

189

182

1946

100

0

24

0

Indian Wells Valley

691

232

222

1946

140

0

so

I ISO

2

I

I

Palm Springs

693

214

207

1947

100

s

SS

0

s

4

3

Meudell-Oildale

69S

22S

230

1948

134.S

0

70

0

9

s

s

4,317.00

Crossroads

696

IS6

IS3

1948

161

0

S2

ALT

3

9

7

2,946.44

Santa Ynez Valley

701

118

llS

1949

1S

0

S2

ALT

I

0

0

2,111.84

Lake Tahoe

707

69

63

19SO

114

10

48

1SO

0

0

0

1,161.72

Anacapa

710

217

20S

19SO

IS

0

so

0

10

9

s

4,lOS.44

~gi
~

0

en
0

.,,

~

0

~

0

t""'

~
~

(')

~

::;::;

~

>

""

UI

w

Members
Lod1e

No.

1997

1998

Charter
luued

Rim of the World

711

98

90

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

19SO

IS9

10

60

0

0

1

0

l,S67.40

630

3

s

4

3,853.96

G.L.
Per Capita

Los Altos

712

208

201

19SI

100

s

30

Estero

719

133

126

1953

1S

0

40

0

3

1

I

2,44S .44

Home

721

S41

HI

1953

100

10

30

0

7

10

9

I0,207.08

San Ramon Valley

724

94

0

19S3

Yucaipa

726

179

159

19S3

!OS

0

50

0

Lakewood

728

205

202

1953

140

0

50

ALT

2

3

4

3,566.92

San Juan

732

303

288

1954

150

20

60

0

3

6

7

5,165.96

Oasis of Mara

735

119

118

1954

90

0

50

1041.66

2

1

0

2,255.92

Consolidated with Alisal Sequoia No. 321 as Alisal Sequoia San Ramon No. 321
I

3

s

2,9S8.52

Lemon Grove

736

316

304

1954

145

10

54

ALT

20

19

16

5,546.00

Claude H. Morrison

747

201

191

19SS

100

20

45

ALT

4

s

6

3,422.28

Highland

748

107

98

19SS

1S

1

30

0

s

9

6

1,993.20

Luther Burbank

752

270

0

19SS

753

298

276

1955

IOO

s

40

833.35

0

0

0

Sl07.88

760

177

175

1956

100

0

40

ALT

5

3

2

3,221.68

Coastsidc

762

97

89

1956

100

10

36

0

0

0

I

1,678.04

William Rhodes Hervey

767

51

47

1956

125

15

40

ALT

0

0

2

905 .56

Palmdale

769

201

196

1957

161

0

50

0

7

5

6

3,123.72

Mission Bay

771

172

165

1957

116

10

50

ALT

4

4

1

2,995 .28

San Dieguito

775

133

131

19S7

123

s

6S

ALT

I

2

2

2,421.64

East Whittier Wayfarer

776

283

269

19S7

100

0

4S

ALT

0

0

I

4,869.16

Riviera

780

100

100

19S7

1S

10

24

0

0

2

2

1,8S2.56

Rio Linda

786

199

199

1958

60

2S

60

ALT

I

2

2

3,566.04

Sierra

788

118

114

1958

75

10

60

ALT

3

I

I

1,996.52

Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

I

p

R

Oak Plains

789

386

373

1958

121

10

4S

ALT

s

8

8

791

99

91

1958

111

0

SS

0

2

I

I

1,763.04

Maya

793

138

129

1959

151

25

4S

0

I

I

2

2,237.36

6,61S .04

American River

795

113

I07

1959

100

10

50

0

I

I

0

1,827.56

Clairemont Mesa

799

137

129

1960

111

0

40

ALT

I

0

0

2,383.88

Yucca Valley

802

138

122

1961

120

0

50

0

5

2

2

2,281.36

Moreno Valley

804

155

149

1961

136

0

50

ALT

1

2

2

2,580.24

Simi Valley

806

113

116

1961

17S

0

so

0

I

3

0

2,182.04

Conejo Valley

807

221

218

1961

160

0

60

940

3

4

6

3,86S.96

Scepter

808

127

123

1962

139

10

4S

ALT

I

I

I

2,141.04

Victoria Palms

810

78

0

1962

Old West

813

248

244

1963

Mount Baldy

815

76

0

1964

Consolidated with Temescal No. 314 as Temescal Palms No. 314
50

0

4

4

6

4,387.40

C)

~0
t""'

~

0

'Tl

(")

Consolidated with Upland No. 419 as Upland-Mt. Baldy No. 419

Mar Vista

820

142

139

1965

179

0

60

0

0

0

0

2,563 .16

Boron

822

69

64

1966

90

0

75

0

0

0

I

1,126.84

Camarillo

824

181

161

1967

150

0

80

0

10

3

2

2,865 .S6

1000

3

4

7

2,412.32

Gemini

82S

134

137

1967

211

5

45

Palm Desert

826

109

106

1968

100

0

48

0

4

4

3

1,979.88 .

Kem River Valley

827

19S

172

1970

100

0

80

0

4

3

4

3,338.68

Bicentennial Daylight

830

172

171

1977

100

0

30

ALT

2

I

0

3,132.24

Joseph L. Shell Daylight

837

81

92

1985

139

0

45

ALT

4

4

4

1,726.92

Three Stars

839

235

261

1988

135

25

48

ALT

12

11

14

4,732.84

Sunrise

840

57

53

1988

86

5

48

0

14

5

8

1,440.32

Irvine

841

77

0

1989

Consolidated with San Clemente No. 671 as Irvine Valley No. 671

*~
'Tl

G.L.
Per Capita

General Henry H. Arnold

0

~gJ
0

Unity

12S

"C

Cl>

Consolidated with Santa Rosa No. S1 as Santa Rosa Luther Burbank No. S1

Lakeside

Members

""'
""'

UI

r>

::;:;

0

~

>

""'

UI
UI

.,,.
UI

°'
Members
Lodge

No.

1997

1998

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fees

Dues

Life
Member

.I

p

R

G.L.
Per Capita

Fox-Coates Daylight

842

68

68

1990

11S

3S

so

0

0

0

I

l,2S4.92

North County Daylight

843

78

79

1993

JOO

0

SS

0

1

I

1

1,498.76

Santa Clara County
Daylight

844

43

2

1997 lnfonnation not available at time of production

0

0

0

1,106.40

Black Mountain

84S

0

42

1998 lnfonnation not available at time of production

0

0

0

824.48

I04S71

993SS

1317

1176

1219

TOTALS

Sl ,81S,626.38

As of June 30, 1998, exclusive of the Research Lodges, there were 413 chartered Lodges in this Jurisdiction with a
total membership of99,570.

~
tTl

g)

z

@
For Membership and Degree totals, see Report of the Grand Secretary.

0

...,

'Tl

@

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATION
Name

No.

Location

Chartered

A.F.E. Irwin

645

Lomita

1?26

Consolidated July I, 1986 with Los Angeles Harbor No. 332 as Los
Angeles Harbor No. 332.

Acacia

92

Coloma

1856

Consolidated March 29, 1916 with Palmyra No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26.

a

Acalanes

723

La Fayette

1953

Consolidated December 4, 1979 with Fellowship No. 480 as
Acalanes-Fellowship No. 480.

0

Disposition

Acom

494

Oakland

1920

Consolidated September I, 1992 with Orinda-Plymouth No. 521 as
Orinda No. 494. Consolidated August I, 1998 with Alamo No. 122 as
Orinda No. 122.

Adin

250

Adin

1878

Consolidated September I, 1988 with Fort Crook No. 575 as Fort Crook
No. 250.

Alamo

122

Walnut Creek

1858

Consolidated August I, 1977 with East Bay No. 489 as Alamo No. 122.
Consolidated August I, 1998 with Orinda No. 494 as Orinda No. 122.

Albany

686

San Pablo

1945

Consolidated December 6, 1982 with El Ceritto No. 705 as El
Cerrito-Albany No. 686.

Albert Pike

484

Los Angeles

1920

Consolidated December 4, 1973 with Sunset No. 352 as Sunset No.
352.

Alexander Graham Bell

595

Los Angeles

1924

Consolidated August I, 1980 with Benjamin Franklin No. 509 as
Alexander Graham Bell-Benjamin Franklin No. 595. Consolidated
January I, 1984 with John Marshall No. 636 as Tri No. 595.
Consolidated January I, 1992 with Composite No. 639 as Composite
No. 595.

~

t""'

~

0

'Tl

(")

~

a~
>

.,,.
UI

....i

~

VI

00

Disposi~on

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Alexander Hamilton

535

Los Angeles

1922

Consolidated July I, 1976 with Harding No. 584 as Hamilton-Harding
No. 535. Consolidated April I, 1985 with Granada No. 608 as Granada
No. 535. Consolidated January I, 1993 with Alhambra Progressive No.
322 as Alhambra No. 322.

Alexandria

531

San Francisco

1922

Consolidated October 2, 1974 with Educator No. 554 as Educator No.
554.

Alhambra

322

Alhambra

1894

Consolidated December I, 1986 with Progressive No. 578 as Alhambra
Progressive No. 322. Consolidated January I, 1993 with Granada No.
535 as Alhambra No. 322.

Alisa(

1894

Consolidated August I, 1994 with Sequoia-St. Elmo No. 349 as Alisa!Sequoia No. 321. Consolidated November I, 1997 with San Ramon
Valley No. 724 as Alisal-Sequoia-San Ramon No. 321.

321

Pleasanton

All States

593

Long Beach

1924

Consolidated December I, 1988 with Palos Verdes No. 389 and Seaside
No. 504 as International City No. 389.

Alpha

431

Richmond

1912

Consolidated December 7, 1982 with Shattuck-Stephens No. 541 as
Alpha Shattuck-Stephens No. 431. Consolidated December 2, 1997
with Point Pinole No. 337 as Bay Cities No. 337.

Alta

333

Bridgeport

1897

Consolidated December IS, 1986 with Winnedumah No. 287 as
Winnedumah No. 287.

Alta Loma

643

Long Beach

1926

Consolidated December I, 1976 with Searchlight No. 567 as
Searchlight-Alta Loma No. 567.

Alta Vista

464

San Francisco

1916

Consolidated December 2, 1968 with Mt. Vernon No. 517 as Alta
Vista-Mt. Vernon No. 464. Consolidated April 4, 1983 with
Argonaut-Argonne No. 461 as Columbia No. 461

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Altadena

678

Altadena

1930

Consolidated July I, 1979 with Mt. Wilson No. 794 as Altadena-Mt.
Wilson No. 678. Consolidated May I, 1987 with Sierra Madre No. 408
as Alta Mt. Sierra No. 408.

Alturas

248

Alturas

1878

.

Consolidated August I, 1998 with Canby Cross No. 679 as Alturas
Canby Cross No. 248 .

America

475

Los Angeles

1920

Consolidated July I, 1991 with Pasadena Consolidated No. 272 as
Pasadena Consolidated No. 272.

Amity

370

San Francisco

1905

Consolidated March I, 1963 with Seal Rock No. 536 as Amity-Seal
Rock No. 370. Consolidated December I, 1975 with Veritas-Jonathan
No. 545 as Amity No. 370. Consolidated July I, 1987 with
Brotherhood No. 375 as Brotherhood No. 370. Consolidated November
I, 1992 with George Washington No. 435 as Brotherhood No. 370.

Anaheim
Anchor

207
273

Anaheim
Anaheim

~

m

~

Sl

.,,

0

-!

~

Dispensation 1864. Charter never issued.

Markeevill

Alpine

.,,

1870
1884

Disposition

Consolidated October I, 1996 with Azure No. 533 as Anaheim Azure
No. 207.

0

~

0

t""'

8m
~
(")

Consolidated December I, 1991 with Manchester No. 585, Lynwood
No. 600 and Tyre No.741 as Golden Trowel No. 273. Consolidated
November I, 1995 with Bell No. 483 as Golden Trowel No. 273.

F=

>

Angeles Mesa

625

Garden Grove

1925

Consolidated April I, 1989 with Orange County Daylight No. 833 as
A.M. Daylight No. 625.

Apollo

396

Alameda

1908

Consolidated December 6, 1983 with Woodstock No. 491 as
Apollo-Woodstock No. 3%. Consolidated December I, 1994 with
Foothill-Oak Grove No. 215 as Island City No. 215.

Arabic

763

Los Angeles

1956

Consolidated July I, 1995 with Pasadena No. 272 as Pasadena No. 272.

Arcadia

547

Arcadia

1923

Consolidated December I, 1992 with San Gabriel Southern California
No. 278 as Arcadia San Gabriel No. 278.

~
~

~

VI

\0

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Arcturas

180

Petaluma

1866

Arenas

185

Punta Arenas

1867

Argonaut

461

San Francisco

1916

Argonne

514

San Francisco

1922

Arizona

257

Phoenix, AZ.

1879

Arlington

414

Los Angeles

1910

Disposition
Consolidated December 1898 with Petaluma No. 77 as Petaluma No.
180. Consolidated April I, 1986 with Hamilton No. 751 as
Petaluma-Hamilton No. 180.
Name changed October 10, 1867 to Claiborne No. 185.
Consolidated December 5, 1968 with Argonne No. 514 as
Argonaut-Argonne No. 461 . Consolidated April 4, 1983 with Alta
Vista-Mt. Vernon No. 464 as Columbia No. 461 . Consolidated July I,
1987 with Balder No. 393 as Columbia-Balder No. 393.
Consolidated December 5, 1968 with Argonaut No. 461 as
Argonaut-Argonne No. 461 .
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona March 25, 1882.
Consolidated September 28, 1959 with Acacia No. 438 as Arlington
No. 414. Consoldiated August I, 1970 with Golden State No. 358 as
Golden State No. 358.
Consolidated December l, 1987 with Florence No. 423 as Artesia No.
377.
Consolidated July 24, 1978 with Tehachapi No. 313 as Tehachapi No.
313.
Consolidated July 1986 with Gardena No. 372 as Gardena-Ascot No.
372.
Consolidated October I, 1990 with Chateau Thierry No. 569 and Bay
View-Castro Valley No. 713 as Crow Canyon No. 569.
Consolidated December l , 1988 with Golden Valley No. 796 as
Golden-Ashlar No. 306. Consolidated January I, 199 5 with Rialto No.
582 as Inland Empire No. 306.

Artesia

377

Artesia

1906

Arvin

738

Arvin

1954

Ascot

538

Torrance

1922

Ashland

798

Castro Valley

1960

Ashlar

306

Colton

1891

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Athens

228

Davis

1873

Consolidated June I, 1995 with Silveyville No. 201 as AthensSilveyville No. 20 I.

Atwater

622

Los Angeles

1925

Consolidated December I, 1982 with Larchmont No. 614 as Atwater
Larchmont No. 614.

Avenal

772

Avenal

lf>57

Consolidated December I 0, 1981 with Coalinga No. 387 as Coalinga
No. 387.

Aztian

177

Prescott, AZ.

1866

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona March 25, 1882.

1922

Consolidated October I, 1996 with Anaheim No. 207 as Anaheim
Azure No. 207.

Azure

533

Anaheim

°'0""""

'"ti

g

!
~

~

Disposition

Azusa

305

Azusa

1891

Consolidated July I , 1996 with Monrovia No. 308 as Foothill No. 305 .

Balder

393

San Francisco

1908

Consolidated July I, 1987 with Columbia No. 461 as Columbia-Balder
No. 393. Consolidated December I, 1990 with Parnassus-Presidio No.
388 as Columbia No. 388.

Bay City

526

San Francisco

1922

Consolidated July I, 1973 with Jewel No. 374 and Lincoln No. 470 as
United No. 374.

Bay Claire Vista

799

San Diego

1960

Name changed October 15, I 964 to Clairemont Mesa No. 799.

Bay View

401

Oakland

1909

Consolidated July I, 1986 with Castro Valley No. 713 as Bay
View-Castro Valley No. 713 .

Beacon of the West

628

Los Angeles

1926

Consolidated February 14, 1939 with Truth No. 597 as Truth No. 628.
Consolidated January I, 1986 with Hollywood No. 355 as Hollywood
No. 355.

Bear Mountain

76

Angels Camp

1855

Consolidated January I, 1988 withOphir No. 33 as Ophir-Bear
Mountain No. 33.

0

~

0
l'

~

~

()

~
Cl

~

>

""""
°'

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

°'"""

Disposition

N

Bell

483

Bell

1920

Consolidated February 1, 1987 with Two Rivers No. 731 as Bell No.
483. Consolidated November 1, 1995 with Golden Trowel No. 273 as
Golden Trowel No. 273.

Bellflower

523

Bellflower

1922

Consolidated December 6, 1983 with Paramount No. 785 as Bellflower
Paramount No. 523. Consolidated June 30, 1987 with South Gate No.
320 as Bellflower No. 320.

Belmont Shore

716

Seal Beach

1952

Consolidated June 1, 1988 with Searchlight-Alta Loma No. 567 as
Pacific Rim No. 567.

Belvedere

539

Monterey Park

1922

Consolidated July 1, 1968 with Sunrise No. 522 as Belvedere Sunrise
No. 522.

Benevolence

631

Los Angeles

1926

Benicia

5

Benicia

1850

Consolidated July 1, 1976 with Golden State No. 358 as Golden State
Benevolence No. 358.
Consolidated August 1, 1993 with Sublime No. 831 as Sublime Benicia
No. 5.
Consolidated August I, 1980 with Alexander Graham Bell No. 595 as
Alexander Graham Bell-Benjamin Franklin No. 595.

Benjamin Franklin

509

Beverly Hills

1921

Berkeley

363

Berkeley

1904

Consolidated July I, 1968 with Charter Rock No. 410 as Berkeley No.
363 . Consolidated October I, 1981 with Thousand Oaks No. 478 as
Berkeley No. 363.

Berryman

4

Sacramento

1850

Name changed to Jennings No. 4. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.

Bethleham

453

San Francisco

1915

Consolidated April I, 1961 with Crocker No. 454 as Crocker No. 454.

Bixby Knolls

699

Long Beach

1949

Consolidated December 1, l 976 with Neptune No. 619 as Bixby Knolls
Neptune No. 699. Consolidated June 1, 1997 with Long Beach No. 327
as Long Beach No. 327.

Blue Lakes

714

San Bruno

1951

Consolidated November I, 1992 with Burlingame No. 400 as
Burlingame No. 400.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Bodega

213

Bodega

1871

Charter revoked October 12, 1889.

Bodie

252

Bodie

1878

Consolidated December 20, 1918 with Winnedumah No. 287 as
Winnedumah No. 287.

Brentwood

345

Brentwood

1902

Consolidated June 30, 1989
Antioch-Brentwood No. 175.

Brooklyn

225

Oakland

1873

Consolidated December 6, 1983 with San Leandro No. 744 as San
Leandro-Brooklyn No. 225.

Brotherhood

251

Duncan's Mill

1878

~

C)
(ll

~

~

Disposition

with

Antioch

No.

175

as

Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.

Buckeye

195

Winters

1868

Consolidated Decembe 4, 1979 with Landmark No. 253 as
Landmark-Buckeye No. 195.

Buena Park

357

Buena Park

1903

Consolidated September I, 1996 with La Mirada No. 750 as Solomon's
Staircase No. 357.

Burlingame

~gi

400

Burlingame

1908

Consolidated August I, 1981 with Hillsborough No. 737 as Burlingame
No. 400. Consolidated November I, 1992 with Blue Lakes No. 714 as
Burlingame No. 400.

Butte

36

Bidwell

1854

Charter Surrendered September 3, 1864.

Cahuenga

513

Los Angeles

1921

Consolidated December 5, 1978 with La Brea No. 650 as Cahuenga No.
513.

Calaveras

78

San Andreas

1855

Consolidated October 31, 1883 with Mokelumne No. 31 as Calaveras
No. 78. Consolidated October 1898 with Campo Seco No. 100 as
Calaveras No. 78. Consolidated December 25, 1919 with Mokelumne
Hill No. 298 as Calaveras No. 78.

Caledonia

486

Bakersfield

1920

Consolidated December I, 1991 with Tejon No. 773 as Caledonia No.
486.

C)

~

0
t'"'

!
~

(')

t

~

"""
w

°'

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Calexico

412

Calexico

1910

Consolidated January 11, 1982 with Imperial No. 390 as Imperial No.
390.

California

I

San Francisco

1850

Consolidated December 2, 1975 with Occidental No. 22 as
Occidental-California No. I. Consolidated July 11, 1978 with Mt.
Davidson No. 48 I as Occidental-California No. I. Consolidated July
3, 1979 with Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562 as Occidental-California No.

Disposition

°'""'""'

I.
Calistoga

233

Calistoga

1874

Consolidated May I, 1994 with Napa Valley No. 93 as Napa Valley No.
93.

Callayomi

282

Middletown

1887

Consolidated July I, 1989 with Clear Lake No. 183 as Clear
Lake-Callayomi No. 183.

Camellia

805

Temple City

1961

Consolidated December I, 1982 with Temple City No. 612 as Camellia
No. 612.

Campo Seco

100

Campo Seco

1856

Consolidated October I 898 with Calaveras No. 78 as Calaveras No. 78.

Canby Cross

679

Tulelake

1935

Consolidated August I, 1998 with Alturas No. 248 as Alturas Canby
Cross No. 248.

Capital City

499

Sacramento

1921

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Golden Empire No. 733 as
Capital City No. 499.

Carmelita

599

Pasadena

1924

Consolidated December I, 1981 with Lamanda Park No. 627 as
Lamanda Park Carmelita No. 627.

Carpenter

131

Wood's Ferry

~

gi

~

aVJ
~

-I

~

Dispensation 1858 Chartered in 1859 as Woodbridge No. 131, the name
of the location of the Lodge having been changed to Woodbridge.
Consolidated November I, 1993 with Galt No. 267 as Woodbridge No.
131.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Carquinez

337

Crockett

1899

.

Disposition
Consolidated January I, 1984 with Pinole No. 353 as Pinole-Carquinez
No. 337. Consolidated December I, 1988 with Point No. 503 as Point
Pinole No. 337. Consolidated December 2, 1997 with Alpha Shattuck
Stephens No. 431 as Bay Cities No. 337.

Carson

154

Carson City, NV

1862

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada January 16, I 865.

Castro Valley

713

Castro Valley

1951

Consolidated July I, 1986 with Bay View No. 401 as Bay View-Castro
Valley No. 713. Consolidated October I, 1990 with Chateau Thierry
No. 569 and Ashland No. 798 as Crow Canyon No. 569.

Cavite

350

Cavite, P.I.

1903

Transferred to Jurisdiction of the Phillippine Islands December 19,
1912.

Caymus

93

Yountville

1856

Moved to St Helena, name changed October IO, I 867 to St. Helena No.
93. Consolidated May I, 1993 with Silverado No. 782 as Napa Valley
No. 93. Consolidated May I, 1994 with Calistoga No. 233 as Napa
Valley No. 93.

Centennial

729

Norwalk

[954

Consolidated October I, 1988 with Norwalk No. 3 l 5 as Norwalk No.
315.

Center

465

Fresno

1916

Consolidated October I, 1992 with Fresno No. 247 and Sun Garden No.
530 as Fresno No. 247.

Channel

757

Stockton

1956

Consolidated December I, 1986 with San Joaquin No. 19 as San
Joaquin No. 19.

Charity

362

Campbell

1904

Consolidated November I, 1995 with John P. Jarman No. 669 as
Charity Jarman No. 362.

Charter Rock

410

Berkeley

1910

Consolidated July 1968 with Berkeley No. 363 as Berkeley No. 363.

a

~

0

r

~
~

a~~
>

°'""'
VI

~

Name

No.

Location

Chateau Thierry

S69

Castro Valley

1923

Consolidated October I, 1990 with Bay View Castro Valley No. 713
and Ashland No. 798 as Crow Canyon No. S69. Consolidated
September l, 1997 with Tri-Square No. SSl as Crow Canyon No. SSL

Chico

111

Chico

18S7

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Leland Stanford No. 784 as
Chico-Leland Stanford No. 111.

Citrol

656

Brea

1927

Consolidated December I, 1996 with Fullerton No. 339 as Gateway No.
339.

Claiborne

17S

Antioch

186S

Name changed October I, 186S to Antioch No. 17S. Consolidated June
30, 1989 with Brentwood No. 34S as Antioch-Brentwood No. 17S.

Clarence F. Smith

482

Granada Hills

1920

Consolidated April I, 1991 with Granada Hills No. 378 as Granada
Hills No. 378.

Clayton Valley

7S6

Concord

1955

Consolidated March I, 1986 with Saint John's No. 72S as Cayton
Valley Saint John's No. 7S6. Consolidated January 6, 1996 with
Mount Diablo No. 448 as Diablo Valley No. 448.

Clear Lake

183

Clearlake

1867

Consolidated July I, 1989 with Callayomi No. 282 as Clear
Lake-Callayomi No. 183.

Clinton

119

Igo

1858

Consolidated October IS, 1936 with Western Star No. 2 as Western Star
No.2.

Coalinga

387

Coalinga

1907

Consolidated December JO, 1981 with Avenal No. 772 as Coalinga No.
387. Consolidated January I, 1991 with Welcome No. 2SS as Welcome
No. 2SS.

Columbia

28

Columbia

18S3

Consolidated December 12, 1891 with Tuolumne No. 8 as Tuolumne
No. 8.

Colusa

142

Colusa

1860

Consolidated April 1, 1882 with Equality No. 240 as Colusa No. 240.

Composite

639

Santa Monica

1926

Consolidated January I, 1992 with Tri No. S95 as Composite No. 59S.

Chartered

~

Disposition

~

tT1

~

~

~

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Contra Costa

227

Somersville

1873

Charter surrendered October IS, 1897.

Corcoran

490

Corcoran

1920

Consolidated July I, 1990 with Olive Branch No. 269 as Olive Branch
No.269.

Corona

324

Pasadena

1895

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Pasadena No. 272 and San
Pasqual Lodge No. 452 as Pasadena Consolidated Lodge No. 272.

Corregidor

386

Manila, P.I.

1907

Transferred to Jurisdiction of the Phillippine Islands December 19,
1912.

Covenant

S27

Hawthorne

1922

Consolidated December I, 1971 with Henry S. Orme No. 458 as Henry
S. Orme No. 4S8.

Craftsmen

559

Los Angeles

1923

Consolidated July l, 1972
Palestine-Craftsmen No. 3S I.

Crescenta Valley

652

La Crescenta

1927

Consolidated December l, 1988 with La Canada-Oakwood No. 739 as
Crescenta Canada No. 6S2. Consolidated October I, 1994 with Jewel
City No. 368 as Jewel City No. 368.

0

'Tl

Disposition

with

Palestine

No.

351

as

Crocker

4S4

Daly City

1915

Consolidated April l, 1961 with Bethlehem No. 4S3 as Crocker No.
4S4. Consolidated July l, 1989 with South San Francisco No. 212 as
Crocker No. 212.

Crockett

139

San Francisco

1860

Consolidated November 2, 1972 with Park No. 449 as Park-Crockett
No. 139. Consolidated December 6, 1979 with Justice No. S49 as
Park-Crocket No. 139. Consolidated December l, 1986 with San
Francisco Educator No. 166 as San Francisco No. 139. Consolidated
February I, 1998 with Fidelity No. 120 as San Francisco No. 120.

Culver City

467

Culver City

1917

Consolidated December 4, 1973 with James A. Foshay No. 641 as
Culver City-Foshay No. 467.

Cupertino

SIO

Cupertino

1921

Consolidated July I, 1990 with Sunnyvale No. SI I as DeAnza No. SI I.

0

~
s
~

'Tl

(""}

t

~
>

~

°'....,

~

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Curtis

140

Cloverdale

1860

Consolidated July I, 1988 with Sotoyome No. 123 as Sotoyome-Curtis
No. 123.

Dana R. Weller

765

Torrance

1956

Consolidated April I, 1993 with Hermosa-Manhattan No. 557 as Beach
Cities No. 557.

Davy Crockett

7

San Francisco

1850

Name changed August 18, 1852 to San Francisco No. 7. Charter
revoked May 13, 1859.

Delta

471

Stockton

1918

Consolidated September I, 1989 with Morning Star No. 68 as Morning
Star No. 68.

Disposition

Diamond

29

Diamond Springs

1853

Charter surrendered October 18, 1873.

Dibble

109

Omega

1857

Charter Surrendered September 27, 1879.

Dimond

603

Hayward

1925

Consolidated July I, 1980 with Lakeshore No. 551 and Lake Chabot
No. 770 as Tri Square No. 551.

Dinuba

385

Doric

Dinuba

1907

North Fork

Consolidated July I, 1977 with Traver No. 294 as Clarence L. Fraser
No.294.
Dispensation 1861. Charter never issued.

°'oc

~

m

~

0

V'J

~

~

Doric

216

San Francisco

1871

Consolidated April I, 1974 with Starr King No. 344 as Starr King No.
344.

Downey

220

Downey

1872

Consolidated January I, 1996 with Rising Light No. 397 and Southeast
No. 596 as Downey United No. 220.

Dunsmuir

297

Dunsmuir

1889

Consolidated September I, 1985 with McCloud No. 430 as
Dunsmuir-McCloud No. 297.

Durant

268

Berkeley

1883

Consolidated January I, 1985 with Oakland-Rockridge No. 188 as
Oakland Durant Rockridge No. 188.

E.K. Kane

72

Nevada City

1855

Charter surrendered December I, 1858.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Eagle Rock

422

Los Angeles

1911

East Bay

489

Orinda

1920

Consolidated December I, 1967 with Hillcrest No. 573 as East Bay No.
489. Consolidated August I, 1977 with Alamo No. 122 as Alamo No .
122.

East Belt

391

Tuolumne

1908

Consolidated July I, 1998 with Tuolumne No. 8 as East Belt-Tuolumne
No.8.

0

East Whittier

776

Whittier

1957

Consolidated December I, 1991 with Wayfarer No. 717 as East
Whittier Wayfarer No. 776.

0

.

Disposition
Consolidated December I, 1987 with Glassell Park No. 605 as Eagle
Rock Glassell No. 422. Consolidated December I, 1993 with South
Pasadena No. 290 as South Pasadena No. 290.

Eden

113

San Leandro

1857

Consolidated December I, 1985 with Standard No. 440 as Eden
Standard No. I 13.

Educator

554

San Francisco

1923

Consolidated February 16, 1940 with Golden City No. 533 as Educator
No. 554. Consolidated October 2, 1974 with Alexandria No. 531 and
Educator No. 554. Consolidated December 5, 1979 with San Francisco
No. 166 as San Francisco Educator No. 166.

El Centro

384

El Centro

1907

Consolidated August 30, 1937 with Oasis No. 664 as El Centro No.
384. Consolidated July I, 1997 with Imperial No. 390 as Imperial No.
390.

El Cerrito

705

El Cerrito

1950

Consolidated December 6, 1982 with Albany No. 686 as El
Cerrito-Albany No. 686.

El Dorado

26

Placerville

1853

Consolidated October 16, 1902 with Palmyra No. 151 as Palmyra No.
26. Consolidated October 11, 1911 with Mt. Zion No. 113 as Palmyra
No. 26. Consolidated March 29, 1916 with Acacia No. 92 as Palmyra
No. 26. Name changed October I 0, 1929 to El Dorado No. 26.

El Rancho

759

Whittier

1956

Consolidated July I, 1988 with Rio Hondo No. 800 as El Rancho Rio
Hondo No. 800.

~

~
~

(J

~

~
~

>

~

°'
\Cl

...
....;i

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

El Segundo

507

El Segundo

1921

Consolidated July I, 1991 with Inglewood-James Kew No. 421 as
South Bay No. 421.

El Sereno

588

Los Angeles

1924

Consolidated December I, 1986 with Malta No. 661 as Malta-El Sereno
No. 588. Consolidated July I, 1994 with San Marino No. 685 as San
Marino No. 588.

Elmhurst

610

Hayward

1925

Consolidated July I, 1979 with Eucalyptus No. 243 as Eucalyptus No.
243.

Emmanuel

318

Biggs

1893

Consolidated October 8, 1968 with North Butte No. 230 as North Butte
No. 230.

Enterprise

70

Yuba City

1855

Consolidated November I, 1992 with Rose's Bar No. 89 as Enterprise
No. 70.

Equality

240

Colusa

1875

Consolidated April I, 1882 with Colusa No. 142 as Colusa No. 240.

171

Virginia City, NV

1864

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada January 16, 1865 .

Esmeralda

170

Auroa, NV

1864

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada January 16, 1865.

Esparanza

339

Fullerton

1900

Name changed October 13, 1904 to Fullerton. Consolidated December
I, 1996 with Citrol No. 656 as Gateway No. 339.

Eucalyptus

243

Hayward

1876

Consolidated July I, 1979 with Elmhurst No. 610 as Eucalyptus No.
243. Consolidated December I, 1987 with Lorenzo No. 709 as Acacia
No.243.

Euclid

519

Norwalk

1922

Consolidated April 3, 1973 with Norwalk No. 315 as Norwalk-Euclid
No.315.

Eureka

16

Auburn

1851

Consolidated September 2, 1919 with Raising Star No. 83 as Eureka
No.16.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Excelsior

166

San Francisco

1864

Exeter

424

Exeter

1912

Consolidated October I, 1994 with Kaweah No. 665 as Exeter Kaweah
No. 424.

Fairmont

435

San Francisco

1913

Consolidated December 3, 1974 with George Washington No. 525 as
George Washington No. 435. Consolidated July I, 1975 with Hunters
Point Naval No. 706 as George Washington No. 435. Consolidated
November I, 1992 with Brotherhood No. 370 as Brotherhood No. 370.

Escurial

.

.

0

Disposition

~

i
~

~

Disposition
Consolidated December 6, 1972 with San Francisco Victory No. 360 as
San Francisco No. 166. Conlidated December 5, 1979 with Educator
No. 554 as San Francisco Educator No. 166. Consolidated December
I, 1986 with No. 166. Consolidated December I, 1986 with
Park-Crockett No. 139 as San Francisco No. 139 .

Fairview

629

El Segundo

1926

Consolidated July 7, 1978 with Westminster No. 787 as
Westminster-Fairview No. 629. Consolidated December I, 1992 with
R.E. Dolley No. 616 as WestBeach No. 616.

Far West

673

San Francisco

1929

Consolidated July 11, 1978 with Golden Gate Speranza No. 30 as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30.

Fellowship

480

Oakland

1920

Consolidated December I, 1969 with Fortitude No. 624 as Fellowship
No. 480. Consolidated December 4, 1979 with Acalanes No. 723 as
Acalanes-Fellowship No. 480.

Fidelity

120

San Francisco

1858

Consolidated February I, 1998 with San Francisco No. 139 as San
Francisco No. 120.

Fillmore

379

Fillmore

1906

Consolidated May I, 1992 with Santa Paula No. 291 as Fillmore-Santa
Paula No. 291.

Five Points

779

Long Beach

1957

Consolidated October I, 1985 with Signal No. 543 as Signal Five
Points No. 543.

Florence

649

Walnut Park

1927

Consolidated December 3, 1970 with York No. 423 as Florence No.
423.

a

~

0
t""'

8m
0

'T1

(")

~

~

>

...
....;i

~

-...I

Name

No.

Folsom

Location

Chartered

Folsom

N

Disposition
Dispensation 1857. Charter never issued.

Foothill

564

Hayward

1923

Consolidated January I, 1993 with Oak Grove No. 215 as Foothill-Oak
Grove No. 215 .

Forbestown

50

Forbestown

1854

Consolidated July 19, 1926 with Jefferson No. 97 as Forbestown No.
50.

Forest

66

Allegheny

1855

Consolidated September 27, 1955 with Gravel Range No. 59 as Gravel
Range No. 59.

Forest Hill

534

San Francisco

1922

Consolidated December 12, 1974 with Oriental No. 144 as Oriental No.
144.

'"C

Fort Bragg

361

Fort Bragg

1904

Consolidated December I, 1989 with Mendocino No. 179 as
Mendocino No. 179.

m
m

Fort Crook

575

Fall River Mllls

1921

Consolidated September I, 1988 with Adin No. 250 as Fort Crook No.
250.

Fortitude

624

Oakland

1925

Consolidated December I, 1969 with Fellowship No. 480 as Fellowship
No. 480.

Fowler

398

Fowler

1908

Consolidated October 14, 1915 with Selma No. 277 as Selma No. 277.

Francis K. Shattuck

571

El Cerrito

1923

Consolidated December 4, 1972 with Henry Morse Stephens No. 541
as Shattuck-Stephens No. 541.

Frank S. Land

819

Los Angeles

1965

Consolidated April 4, 1983 with Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368 as
Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368.

Franklin

53

Sacramento

1854

Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.

Franklin

Meadow Valley

~

0

z

Cl

V>

0

'Tl

~

m

Dispensation 1857. Charter never issued.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Fremont

497

Oakland

1921

Consolidated Ocotber I, 1986 with Tri Square No. 551 as Tri Square
No. 551.

Fresno

247

Fresno

1878

Consolidated October I, 1992 with Center No. 465 and Sun Garden No.
530 as Fresno No. 247 .

Galt

.

267

Galt

1882

Consolidated November I, 1993 with Woodbridge No. 131 as
WoodbridgeNo. 131.

Garden Grove

586

Garden Grove

1924

Consolidated July I, 1990 with Silver Cord No. 505 as Garden Grove
No. 505 .

Gardena

372

Gardena

1906

Consolidated July I, 1986 with Ascot No. 538 as Gardena-Ascot No.
372.

Garvanza

492

Los Angeles

1920

Consolidated November 3, 1982 with Fellowship No. 290 as Fellowship
No. 290.

Gateway

821

Seaside

1966

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Pacific Grove No. 331 as Pacific
Grove No. 331.

George E. Tutt

722

Los Gattos

1953

Consolidated December I, 1989 with Los Gatos No. 292 as Los
Gatos-George E. Tutt No. 292.

Disposition

0

~

0

r

~
0

'Tl

George Washington

62

Chinese Camp

1856

Consolidated September 15, 1919 with Tuolumne No. 8.

George Washington

525

San Francisco

1922

Consolidated December 3, 1974 with Fairmount No. 435 as George
Washington No. 435.

Georgetown

25

Georgetown

1853

Consolidated December 1898 with Pilot Hill No. 160 as Georgetown
No. 25 .

Germania

438

Los Angeles

1913

Name changed October 16, 1918 to Acacia. Consolidated September
28, 1959 with Arlington No. 414 as Arlington No. 414.

~

~

~

>

~

-...I

w

.j:o.

~
Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Gibsonville

158

Gibsonville

1863

Consolidated November 1882 with Saint Louis No. 86 as Gibsonville
No. 158. Consolidated October IS, 1908 with Jefferson No. 97 as
Jefferson No.97.

Gilroy

159

Gilroy

1863

Charter surrendered September 28, 1864.

Glassell Park

605

Los Angeles

1925

Consolidated December I, 1987 with Eagle Rock No. 422 as Eagle
Rock Glassell No. 422.

Glendale

544

Glendale

1923

Consolidated April I, 1997 with Jewel City No. 368 as Glendale No.
368.

Glendora

404

Glendora

1909

Consolidated September I, 1993 with Sojourner No. 607 as Glendora
No. 404.

Disposition

Gold Hill

32

Lincoln

1853

Consolidated July I, 1992 with Penrhyn No. 258 as Penrhyn Gold Hill
No. 32.

Golden Bowl

755

South Gate

1955

Consolidated October 1, 1979 with Jordan No. 654 as Jordan-Golden
Bowl No. 654.

Golden City

553

San Francisco

1923

Consolidated February 16, 1940 with Educator No. 554 as Educator No.
554.

Golden Empire

733

Sacramento

1954

Consolidated December 1, 1990 with Capital City No. 499 as Capital
City No. 499.

Golden Gate

30

San Francisco

1853

Consolidated July 1, 1966 with Speranza Italians No. 219 as Golden
Gate Speranza No. 30. Consolidated July l, 1975 with Roosevelt No.
500 as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30. Consolidated february 7, 1978
with Mount Moriah No. 44 as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30.
Consolidated July 11 , 1978 with Far West No. 673 as Golden Gate
Speranza No. 30.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Golden State

358

Los Angeles

1903

Golden Valley

796

San Bernardino

1959

Golden West

455

San Francisco

1915

Consolidated April 6, 1982 with Mission No. 169 as Mission Golden
West No. 169. Name changed October 12, 1988 to Mission.

Grafton

141

1860

Consolidated December I, 1997 with Woodland No. 81 as Woodland
No. 81.

Knights Landing

""Cl

g
(Tl

gj

~

0

...,'Tl
~

Disposition
Consolidated August 1, 1970 with Arlington No. 414 as Golden State
No. 358 . Consolidated July I, 1976 with Benevolence No. 631 as
Golden State Benevolence No. 358. Consolidated December 3, 1981
with Sunset No. 352 as Metropolitan No. 352.
Consolidated December I, 1988 with Ashlar No. 306 as Golden Ashlar
No. 306.

Granada

608

Alhambra

1925

Consolidated April I, 1985 with Hamilton Harding No. 535 as Granada
No. 535 .

Granada Hills

790

Granada Hills

1958

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Mizpah No. 378 as Granada Hills
No. 378.

Granite

222

Rocklin

1872

Consolidated May 29, 1919 with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville No.
222.

Grass Valley

48

Grass Valley

1854

Charter surrenderd May 6, 1856.

Gravel Range

59

Comptonville

1855

Consolidated September 27, 1955 with Forest No. 66 as Gravel Range
No. 59.

Great Lights

818

Sunnyvale

1964

Consolidated January I, 1997 with Menlo Park Peninsula No. 65 I as
Three Great Lights No. 65 I.

Greenleaf

670

Whittier

1928

Consolidated February I, 1994 with The Gardens No. 621 as Greenleaf
Gardens No. 670.

Greenville

249

Greenville

1878

Consolidated October 16, 1896 with Sincerity No. 132 as Sincerity No.
132.

C)

~

t::l

i
~

~
~

~

>

.j:o.
-..j

VI

-..I
"""

°'

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Guardian

596

South Gate

1924

Consolidated June I, 1986 with Jordan-Golden Bowl No. 654 as
Guardian Jordan-Golden Bowl No. 596. Name changed October 16,
1987 to Southeast No. 596. Consolidated January I, 1996 with
Downey No. 220 and Rising Light No. 397 as Downey United No. 220.

Half Moon Bay

835

Half Moon Bay

1982

Consolidated April I, 1992 with San Mateo No. 226 as San Mateo No.
226.

Hamilton

751

Novato

1955

Consolidated April I, 1986
Petaluma-Hamilton No. 180.

Hammonton

433

Sutter

1913

Consolidated January I, 1997 with Corinthian No. 9 as CorinthianHammonton No. 9.

Harbor

502

San Pablo

1921

Consolidated December I, 1991 with McKinley No. 347 and San Pablo
No. 754 as El Portal No. 347.

Harding

584

Los Angeles

1924

Disposition

with

Petaluma

No.

180

as

Consolidated July I, 1976 with Alexander Hamilton No. 535 as
Hamilton-Harding No. 535.

'"ti

R
gJ
0

z

0

Vl

0

'Tl

Hawaiian

21

Honolulu, HI

1852

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1969

Hawthorne

647

Hawthorne

1926

Consolidated November I, 1993 with Lawndale No. 753 as Unity No.
753.

Hayward

226

Half Moon Bay

1873

Moved to San Mateo, name changed October 13, 1905 to San Mateo
No. 226. Consolidated April I, 1992 with Half Moon Bay No. 835 as
San Mateo No. 226.

Los Angeles

1928

Consolidated April 2, 1975 with Westlake No. 392 as Henry
Knox-Westlake No. 392.
Consolidated December 4, 1972 with Francis K. Shattuck No. 571 as
Shattuck-Stephens No. 541. Consolidated December 7, 1982 with
Alpha No. 431 as Alpha Shattuck-Stephens No. 431.

Henry Knox
662

:i!tT'l

Henry Morse Stephens

541

Berkeley

1923

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Henry S. Orme

458

Los Angeles

1915

Consolidated December I, 1971 with Covenant No. 427 as Henry S.
Orme No. 458. Consolidated December I, 1980 with Wilshire Garfield
No. 445 as Golden Gavel No. 445.

Heritage

764

North Hollywood

1956

Consolidated July I, 1979 with Southland No. 618 as Southland
Heritage No. 618.

Hermosa

557

Manhattan Beach

1923

Consolidated June I, 1984 with Manhattan No. 742 as
Hermosa-Manhattan No. 557. Consolidated April I, 1993 with Dana
R. Weller No. 765 as Beach Cities No. 557.

Hesperian

0

264

Santa Maria

1882

Consolidated October 13, 1910 with Santa Maria No. 340 as Hesperian
No.264.

0

Disposition

~

Highland Park

382

Los Angeles

1907

Consolidated January 6, 1982 with East Gate No. 290 as Fellowship
No. 290.

Hillcrest

573

Orinda

1923

Consolidated December I, 1967 with East Bay No. 489 as East Bay No.
489.

0

r>

t""'

~

'Tl

(')

Hills Ferry

236

Newman

1874

Consolidated May I, 1996 with Livingston No. 658 as Livingston-Hills
Ferry No. 236.

Hillsborough

737

Burlingame

1954

Consolidated January 15, 1975 with Millbrae No. 792 as Patriot No.
737. Name changed October 11, 1979 to Hillsborough No. 737.
Consolidated August I, 1981 with Burlingame No. 400 as Burlingame
No. 400.

Hollenbeck

319

Whittier

1894

Consolidated April 1, 1982 with Norwalk-Euclid No. 315 as Norwalk
No. 315.

Hollywood

355

Hollywood

1903

Consolidated September I, 1977 with William B. Ogden No. 816 as
Hollywood No. 355. Consolidated July 6, 1978 with Melrose No. 602
as Hollywood-Melrose No. 355. Name changed October 15, 1981 to
Hollywood No. 355. Consolidated January I, 1986 with Truth No. 628
as Hollywood No. 355.

~
~

>

-..I
"""
-..I

~

-.I
00

Chartered

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

409

Honolulu, HI

1910

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

Honolulu

96

Yreka

1856

Consolidated December 8, 1924 with St. John's No. 37 as Howard No.

Howard
Hueneme

3ll

Hueneme

1892

37.
Consolidated October 16, 1902 with Oxnard No. 341 as Oxnard No.
341.
Consolidated July l, 1975 with George Washington No. 535.
Consolidated January l, 1998 with WestBeach No. 616 as Huntington

Hunters Point Naval

706

San Francisco

1950

Huntington Beach

380

Huntington Beach

1906

Imperial

390

Holtville

1908

Beach No. 380.
Consolidated January 11, 1982 with Calexico No. 412 as Imperial No.
390. Consolidated July l, 1997 with El Centro No. 384 as Imperial No.

1855

390.
Name changed May 2, 1855 to Corinthian No. 69. Consolidated
December 1874 with Marysville. No. 9 as Corinthian No. 9.

~g:J
~

@
~

Independent Royal Arch

69

Marysville

Indian Diggings

85

Indian Diggings

1856

Consolidated October 17, 1874 with St. Mark's No. 85 as St. Mark's No.
85. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.

Indian Rock

638

Berkeley

1926

Consolidated October l, 1968 with Thousand Oaks No. 478 as
Thousand Oaks No. 478.

Ingleside

630

San Franciso

1926

Consolidated December 4, 1973 with Pyramid No. 562 as
Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562.

Inglewood

421

Inglewood

1911

Consolidated July l, 1980 with James H. Kew No. 766 as
Inglewood-James Kew No. 421. Consolidated July l, 1991 with El
Segundo No. 507 as South Bay No. 421.

221

Independence

1872

Consolidated January l 0, 1945 with Waucoba No. 413 as Inyo No. 221.

Inyo

Name

No.

Location

Ione

80

Ione

1856

Consolidated October I 5, 1887 with Nebraska No. 7 I as Ione No. 80.

Ionic

121

Iowa Hill

1858

Charter surrendered October 8, 1905.

Iowa Hill

63

Iowa Hill

1855

Charter surrendered October 29, 1857.

Irvine

841

Irvine

1989

Consolidated November l, 1997 with San Clemente No. 671 as Irvine
Valley No. 671.

0

James A. Foshay

641

Playa del Rey

1926

Consolidated December 4, 1976 with Culver City No. 467 as Culver
City-Foshay No. 467.

0

James A. Garfield

566

Los Angeles

1923

Consolidated October l,
Wilshire-Garfield No. 445.

as

b
~

JamesH. Kew

766

Inglewood

1956

Consolidated July l, I 980 with Inglewood No. 421 as Inglewood-James
Kew No. 421. Consolidated July l, 1991 with El Segundo No. 507 as
South Bay No. 421.

("}

Chartered

~

Disposition

1973

with

Wilshire

No.

445

James Madison

572

Playa del Rey

1923

Consolidated April l, 1976 with Westchester No. 703 as
Westchester-Madison No. 572. Consolidated December 7, 1978 with
Valley Forge No. 587 as Westchester-United No. 572. Consolidated
December I, 1991 with Menorah No. 623 as Westchester Menorah No.
572. Consolidated November l, 1997 with West Gate Loyalty No. 529
as Southern California No. 529.

Janesville

232

Janesville

1874

Consolidated May l, 1992 with Lassen No. 149 as Lassen-Janesville
No.149.

Jefferson

97

La Porte

1856

Consolidated October 15, 1908 with Gibsonville No. 158 as Jefferson
No. 97. Consolidated July 19, 1926 with Forbestown No. 50 as
Forbestown No. 50.

~
0

'Tl

~

::;:;

~

~

-.I

'°

~

00

0

Name

No.

Location

Jewel

374

San Francisco

1906

Consolidated July I, 1973 with Lincoln No. 470 and Bay City No. 526
as United No. 374.
Consolidated December I, 1988 with
Lebanon-Pacific No. 136 as Lebanon-Pacific No. 136.

Joesph us

152

Brush Creek

1862

Charter surrendered October 11, 1864.

John Marshall

636

Beverly Hills

1926

Consolidated January I, 1984 with Alexander Graham Bell-Benjamin
Franklin No. 595 as Tri No. 595.

John P. Jarman

669

San Jose

1928

Consolidated November l, 1995 with Charity No. 362 as Charity
Jarman No. 362.

Jonathan

545

San Francisco

1923

Consolidated December 3, 1963 with Veritas No. 640 as
Veritas-Jonathan No. 545. Consolidated December l, 1975 with
Amity-Seal Rock No. 370 as Amity No. 370.

Chartered

Disposition

g
tT'l

~

Joppa

508

San Joaquin

1921

Consolidated September 13, 1983 with Madera No. 280 as Madera
Joppa No. 280.

@

Jordan

654

Huntington Park

1927

Consolidated October l, 1979 with Golden Bowl No. 755 as
Jordan-Golden Bowl No. 654. Consolidated June I, 1986 with
Guardian No. 596 as Guardian Jordan-Golden Bowl No. 596. Name
changed October 15, 1987 to Southeast No. 596.

~

Josiah W. Roller

761

Palo Alto

1956

Consolidated December I, 1985 with Palo Alto No. 346 as Palo
Alto-Roller No. 346.

Jubilee

604

Newport Beach

1925

Consolidated September l, 1996 with Seafaring No. 708 as Seafaring
No. 604.

Justice

549

San Francisco

1923

Consolidated December 6, 1979 with Park-Crockett No. 139 as
Park-Crockett No. 139.

Kauai

589

Lihue, HI

1924

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Kaweah

665

Woodlake

1928

Kennett

456

Kennett

1915

Kerman

420

Kerman

1911

Kilauea

330

Hilo, HI

1897

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

King Kalakaua Daylight

838

Honolulu, HI

1985

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

t""'

Q

Disposition

Q

-

Consolidated October l, 1994 with Exeter No. 424 as Exeter Kaweah
No. 424.
Consolidated December 19, 1925 with Reading No. 254 as Reading No.
254.
Consolidated December I, 1991 with Madera Joppa No. 280 as Madera
No. 280.

King Solomon's

260

San Francisco

1880

Consolidated December 5, 1963 withSeaport No. 550 as King
Solomon's Seaport No. 260. Consolidated December I, 1986 with Starr
King No. 344 as Starr King No. 344.

Kit Carson

734

Sacramento

1954

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Union No. 58 as Union Kit
Carson No. 58.

Kana

836

Captain Cook, HI

1982

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

Kool au

801

Kailua, HI

1960

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

La Brea

650

Los Angeles

1927

Consolidated December 5, 1978 with Cahuenga No. 513 as
Cahuenga-La Brea No. 513.

La Canada

739

La Cresenta

1954

Consolidated July l, 1979 with Oakwood No. 743 as La
Canada-Oakwood No. 739. Consolidated December I, 1988 with
Crescenta Valley No. 652 as Crescenta Canada No. 652.

LaCumbre

642

Santa Barbara

1926

LaMirada

778

Buena Park

1957

Consolidated December l, 1990 with Magnolia Lodge No. 242 as
Magnolia-La Cumbre No. 242.
Consolidated December l, 1990 with Mother Colony No. 750 as La
Mirada No. 750.

0

~0

~

(')

~

~>

~

00

~

00
N

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

La Puente

446

La Puente

1914

Consolidated July I, 1985 with West Covina No. 758 as West
Convina-La Puente No. 446.

LaFayette

15

LaFayette, OR

1851

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 1851.

LaGrange

99

Merced

1856

Consolidated October 16, 1913 with Yosemite No. 133 as Yosemite No.
99. Consolidated December l, 1995 with Merced No. 749 as Yosemite
No.99.

Laguna Beach

672

Laguna Beach

1929

Consolidated April I, 1987 with Saddleback Valley No. 832 as Saddle
Laguna No. 672.

Lake Chabot

770

Hayward

1957

Consolidated July I, 1980 with Lakeshore No. 551 and Dimond No.
603 as Tri Square No. 551.

Lakes ho re

551

San Lorenzo

1923

Consolidated July l, 1980 with Dimond No. 603 and Lake Chabot No.
770 as Tri Square No. 551. Consolidated December l, 1986 with
Fremont No. 497 as Tri Square No. 551. Consolidated September I,
1997 with Crow Canyon No. 569 as Crow Canyon No. 551.

Lamanda Park

627

Pasadena

1925

Consolidated December l, 1981 with Carmelita No. 599 as Lamanda
Park Carmeltia No. 627. Consolidated March 31, 1995 with Pasadena
Consolidated No. 272 as Pasadena No. 272.

Lander

172

Austin, NV

1864

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada January 16, 1865.

Landmark

253

Esparto

1879

Consolidated December 4, 1979 with Buckeye No.
Landmark-Buckeye No. 195.

Lankershim

542

North Hollywood

1923

Name changed October 12, 1950 to North Hollywood.

Larchmont

614

Los Angeles

1925

Consolidated December l, 1982 with Atwater No. 622 as Atwater
Larchmont No. 614. Consolidated July l, 1993 with Tila Pass No. 797
as Atwater Larchmont Tila Pass No. 614.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Las Palmas

366

Fresno

1905

Consolidated April I, 1991 with Ponderosa No. 700 as Las
Palmas-Ponderosa No. 366.

Lassen

149

Susanville

1862

.

Consolidated May l, 1992 with Janesville No. 232 as Lassen-Janesville
No. 149.

Latrobe

189

Latrobe

1868

Consolidated October 17, 1884 with Natoma No. 64 as Natoma No. 64.

Laurel

245

Willows

1877

Consolidated January 1, 1992 with Orland No. 265 as Orland Laurel
No.245.

Lawndale

753

Hawthorne

1955

Consolidated November l, 1993 with Hawthorne No. 647 as Unity No.
753.

~

m
m

0

*~
V>

0
....,

195 as

Disposition

Lebanon

49

San Francisco

1854

Charter revoked June 29, 1857.

Lebanon

495

San Francisco

1921

Consolidated September 7,
Lebanon-Pacific No. 136.

Leland Stanford

784

Chico

1958

Consolidated December 1, 1990 with Chico Lodge No. 111 as
Chico-Leland Stanford No. 111.

Libertas

466

Baskersfield

1917

"ti

1971

with Pacific No.

136 as

Consolidated December 1, 1986 with Security No. 581
Libertas-Security No. 466.

as

Lincoln

470

San Francisco

1918

Consolidated July l, 1973 with Jewel No. 374 and Bay City No. 526 as
United No. 374.

Lindsay

416

Lindsay

1910

Consolidated June I, 1987
Porterville-Lindsay No. 303.

Live Oak

61

Oakland

1855

Consolidated March l, 1994 with Verba Buena No. 403 as Live Oak
No. 61.

Livingston

658

Livingston

1927

Consolidated May l, 1996 with Hills Ferry No. 236 as Livingston-Hills
Ferry No. 236.

with

Porterville

No.

303

0

~

b
~
~

(')

~

c
~

>

as

~

00

w

~

00

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Lodge Maui

472

Kahului, HI

1918

Transferred to Jurisdiction ofl-lawaii May 20, 1989.

Lomita

644

Lomita

1926

Consolidated October l, 1996 with Wilmington No. 198 as Angels Gate
No.198.

Long Beach

327

Long Beach

1896

Consolidated September 1, 1994 with Queen Vista No. 540 as Long
Beach No. 327. Consolidated June I, 1997 with Shoreline No. 543 as
Long Beach No. 327. Consolidated June l, 1997 with Bixby Knolls
Neptune No. 699 as Long Beach No. 327.

Lorenzo

709

San Lorenzo

1950

Consolidated December l, 1987 with Eucalyptus No. 243 as Acacia No.
243.

Los Almitos

809

Seal Beach

1962

Consolidated March l, 1989 with R.E. Dolley No. 616 as R.E. Dolley
No. 616.

Los Angeles

42

Los Angeles

1854

Consolidated November 1, 1990 with Plaza de Los Angeles No. 814 as
Los Angeles No. 42. Consolidated November 1, 1996 with Silver
Trowel No. 415 as Los Angeles Silver Trowel No. 42.

Los Gatos

292

Los Gatos

1888

Consolidated December 1, 1989 with George E. Tutt No. 722 as Los
Gatos-George E. Tutt No. 292.

Loyalton

359

Loyalton

1904

Consolidated November 6, 1972 with Sierra Valley No. 184 as Sierra
Valley No. 184.

Loyalty

529

Los Angeles

1922

Consolidated July 1, 1994 with West Gate No. 335 as West Gate
Loyalty No. 529. Consolidated November l, 1997 with Westchester
Menorah No. 572 as Southern California No. 529.

Luther Burbank

752

Santa Rosa

1955

Consolidated December 13, 1997 with Santa Rosa No. 57 as Santa Rosa
Luther Burbank No. 57.

Lynwood

600

Bellflower

1925

Consolidated December l, 1991 with Anchor No. 273, Manchester No.
585, and Tyre No. 741 as Golden Trowel No. 273.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Maccabee

823

San Marino

1966

Consolidated October l, 1980 with Monterey Park No. 457 as Monterey
Park No. 457.

Madera

280

Madera

1885

Consolidated September 13, 1983 with Joppa No. 508 as Madera Joppa
No. 280. Consolidated December 1, 1991 with Kerman No. 420 as
Madera No. 280.

Magnolia

242

Santa Barbara

1876

Consolidated December l, 1990 with La Cumbre No. 642 as MagnoliaLa Cumbre No. 242.

Magnolia Park

715

Burbank

1951

Consolidated April l, 1990 with Southland Heritage No. 618 as
Magnolia Park No. 618.

Malta

661

Los Angeles

1928

Consolidated December l, 1986 with El Sereno No. 588 as Malta-El
Sereno No. 588.

Manchester

585

Downey

1924

Consolidated December l, 1991 with Anchor No. 273, Lynwood No.
600, and Tyre No.741 as Golden Trowel No. 273.

Manhattan

817

Inglewood

1964

Consolidated December 5, 1972 with Morningside Park No. 742 as
Manhattan No. 742.

Manila

342

Manila, P.I.

1901

Transferred to Jurisdiction of the Phillippine Islands December 19,
1912.

Manzanita North

102

San Juan

1856

Consolidated October 13, 1910 with Nevada No. 13 as Nevada No. 13.

Maricopa

434

Maricopa

1913

Consolidated July 1, 1973 with Taft-Midway No. 426 as Taft-Midway
No. 426.

Mariposa

24

Mariposa

1853

Consolidated May 26, 1976 with Pohona No. 699 as Mariposa No. 24.

Marysville

9

Marysville

1850

Consolidated December 1874 with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9. Consolidated June 16, 1916 with Yuba No. 39 as Corinthian No. 9.
Consolidated January l, 1997 with Hammonton No. 433 as CorinthianHammonton No. 9.

.

~

~
tTl
tTl

~

0

tn

~

~

Disposition

~

t'"'

~
~

(")

[!:

::;;

~
>

~

00
UI

~

00

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Maui

223

Wailuku, lD

1873

Charter surrendered November 17, 1877.

Maxwell

288

Maxwell

1888

Consolidated December I, 1989 with Arbuckle No. 182 and Tuscan No.
261 as Tuscan Maxwell No. 182.

McCloud

430

McCloud

1912

Consolidated September 1, 1985 with Dunsmuir No. 297 as
Dunsmuir-McCloud No. 297.

McKinley

347

San Pablo

1902

Consolidated December 1, 1991 with Harbor No. 502 and San Pablo
No. 754 as El Portal No. 347.

Melrose

602

Hollywood

1925

Mendocino

179

Mendocino

1866

Menlo Park

651

Menlo Park

1927

Consolidated July 6, 1978 with Hollywood No. 355 as Hollywood No.
355.
Consolidated December 1, 1989 with Fort Bragg No. 361 as Mendocino
No.179.
Consolidated April 1, 1987 with Peninsula No. 745 as Menlo Park
Peninsula No. 651. Consolidated January 1, 1997 with Great Lights
No. 818 as Three Great Lights No. 651.

Menorah

623

Playa del Rey

1925

Consolidated December 1, 1991 with Westchester United No. 572 as
Westchester Menorah No. 572.

Merced

176

Snelling

1865

Charter surrenderd October 16, 1879.

Merced

749

Merced

1955

Meridian

182

Arbuckle

1867

Consolidated December 1, 1995 with Yosemite No. 99 as Yosemite No.
99.
Name changed October 16, 1919 to Arbuckle No. 182. Consolidated
December l, 1989 with Tuscan No. 261 and Maxwell No. 288 as
Tuscan Maxwell No. 182.

Meridian

667

Glendale

1928

Consolidated April 5, 1983 with Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368 as Jewel
City No. 368.

Chartered

Name

No.

Location

Metropolitan

646

South Pasadena

1926

Consolidated December 10, 1973 with South Pasadena No. 367 as
South Pasadena No. 367.

Meudell

695

Bakersfield

1948

Consolidated January 1, 1982 with Oildale No. 688 as Meudell-Oildale
No. 695.

°'

~
lTl

t3
~

Cll

~

~

Disposition

Michigan City

47

Michigan Bluff

1854

Charter surrendered Ocotber 15, 1897.

Midway

426

Taft

1912

Consolidated July 1, 1972 with Taft No. 516 as Taft-Midway No. 426.
Consolidated July 1, 1973 with Maricopa No. 434 as Taft-Midway No.
426 . Consolidated April 1, 1975 with Temblor No. 477 as
. Taft-Midway No. 426.

Military Service

570

San Francisco

1923

Consolidated July 1, 1974 with Richmond No. 375 as Brotherhood No.
375 .

Millbrae

792

Millbrae

1959

Consolidated January 15, 1975 with Hillsborough No. 737 as Patriot
No. 737.

C)

~

0
t""

~

0

'Tl

Mineral King

720

Visalia

1953

Consolidated April 1, 1994 with Visalia No. 128 as Visalia No. 128.

~

Minnesota

67

Minnesota

1855

Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.

0

Mission

169

San Francisco

1864

Consolidated April 6, 1962 with Golden West No. 455 as Mission
Golden West No. 169. Name changed October 12, 1988 to Mission No.
169.

Mizpah

378

Van Nuys

1906

Consolidated December l, 1990 with Granada Hills No. 790 as Granada
Hills No. 378. Consolidated April I, 1991 with Clarence F. Smith No.
482 as Granada Hills No. 378.

Mojave

783

Mojave

1958

Charter revoked October 12, 1983.

Mokelumne

31

Mokelumne Hill

1853

Consolidated October 13, 1883 with Calaveras No. 78.

c
'Tl

~

>

~

00
-i

-l>00
00

Chartered

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

Mokelumne Hill

298

Mokelumne Hill

1890

Mon eta

405

Gardena

1909

Monrovia

308

Monrovia

1891

Monte Vista

655

Long Beach

1927

Montebello

451

Montebello

1914

Morning Star

68

Stockton

1855

Morningside Park

742

Inglewood

1955

Mother Colony

750

Anaheim

1955

Mount Baldy

815

Ontario

1964

Mount Carmel

155

Red Dog

1863

Charter surrendered August 16, 1872.

Mount Diablo

448

Concord

1914

Consolidated January 6, 1996 with Clayton Valley St. John's No. 756
as Diablo Valley No. 448.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Mount Hermon

94

Elizabethtown

1856

Charter surrendered December 24, 1859.

Mount Jefferson

107

Garrotte

1857

Consolidated December 1876 with Tuolumne No. 8 as Tuolumne No.
8.

Mount Moriah

44

San Francisco

1854

Consolidated February 7, 1978 with Golden Gate Speranza No. 30 as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30.

Mount Olive

506

Van Nuys

1921

Consolidated December l, 1989 with Zenith No. 768 as Zenith-Mount
Olive No. 506. Consolidated November 1, 1996 with Van Nuys No.
450 as Van Nuys No. 450.

Consolidated December 25, 1919 with Calaveras No. 78 as Calaveras
No. 78.
Consolidated December I, 1971 with Vermont Square No. 515 as
Moneta No. 405 .
Consolidated July 1, 1996 with Azusa No. 305 as Foothill No. 305.
Consolidated October 1, 1989 with Queen Beach No. 540 as Queen
Vista No. 540.
Consolidated August 1, 1985 with Triad No. 812 as Montebello No.
451. Consolidated June I, 1993 with El Rancho Rio Hondo No. 800 as
Montebello No. 451.
Consolidated December 1, 1987 with Stockton No. 498 as Morning Star
No. 68. Consolidated September 1, 1969 with Delta No. 471 as
Morning Star No. 68.
Consolidated December 5, 1972 with Manhattan No. 817 as Manhattan
No. 742. Consolidated June 1, 1984 with Hermosa No. 557 as Hermosa
Manhattan No. 557.
Consolidated December I, 1990 with La Mirada No. 778 as La Mirada
No. 750. Consolidated September 1, 1996 with Buena Park No. 357 as
Solomon's Staircase No. 357.
Consolidated March I, 1998 with Upland No. 419 as Upland-Mt. Baldy
No. 419.

517

San Francisco

1922

Consolidated December 2, 1968 with Alta Vista No. 464 as Alta
Vista-Mt. Vernon No. 464.

Mountain

82

Don Pedro's Bar

1856

Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.

Mt. Davidson

75
481

Mountain Forest

1855

Charter surrendered May 1870.

~

@
~

~

C)

~

c

~

.,,

(J

r>

:::;;

San Francisco

1920

Consolidated July 11, 1978 with Occidental-California No. 1 as
Occidental-California No. 1.

0

>

794

Altadena

1959

Consolidated July I, 1979 with Altadena No. 678 as Altadena-Mt.
Wilson No. 678.

Mt.Zion

114

Grizzly Flat

1857

Consolidated October 11, 1911 with Palmyra No. 26 as Palmyra No. 26.

Napa

~

Dispensation 1859. Charter never issued.

Nashville
Natoma

rn

0

Mt. Wilson

Napa City

~

Disposition

Mount Vernon

Mountain Forest

..,,

Dispensation 1851 . Charter never issued.
64

Folsom

1855

Consolidated October 17, 1884 with Lattrobe No. 189 as Natoma No.
64.

-l>00

'°

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Naval

87

Vallejo

1856

Nebraska

71

Michigan Bar

1855

Neptune

619

Long Beach

1925

Consolidated December I , 1976 with Bixby Knolls No. 699 as Bixby
Knolls-Neptune No. 699.

Nevada

13

Nevada City

1851

Newville

205

Newville

1870

Consolidated October 13, 1910 with Quitman No. 88 and Manzanita
No. 102 as Nevada No. 13.
Consolidated October I, 1917 with Olivet No. 264 as Olivet No. 205.

North Butte

230

Gridley

1873

North East

266

Fort Bidwell

1882

North Star

91

Fort Jones

1856

Norwalk

315

Norwalk

1893

Oak Grove

215

Alameda

1871

Oakland

188

Oakland

1868

Oakwood

743

La Cn:scenta

1955

"'"""
0

Consolidated February I, 1994 with Vallejo Solano No. 229 as Naval
No. 87.
Consolidated October 15, 1887 with Ione No. 80.

Consolidated October 8, 1968 with Emmanuel No. 318 as North Butte
No. 230.
Consolidated July I, 1962 with Surprise Valley No. 235 as Surprise
Valley No. 235.
Consolidated October 15, 1905 with Owen No. I 08 as North Star No.
91.
Consolidated April 3, 1973 with Euclid No. 519 as Norwalk-Euclid No.
315 Consolidated April I, 1982 with Hollenbeck No. 319 as Norwalk
No. 315. Consolidated October I, 1988 with Centennial No. 729 as
Norwalk No. 315.
Consolidated January I, 1993 with Foothill No. 564 as Foothill-Oak
Grove No. 215. Consolidated December I, 1994 with Apollo
Woodstock No. 396 as Island City No. 215.
Consolidated December 6, 1983 with Rockridge No. 468 as
Oakland-Rockridge No. 188. Consolidated January I, 1985 with
Durant No. 268 as Oakland Durant Rockridge No. 188.

~
tT1
tT1

0

~en

.,,

0

~

Consolidated July I, 1979 with La Canada No. 739 as La
Canada-Oakwood No. 739.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Oasis

664

El Centro

1928

Consolidated August 30, 1937 with El Centro No. 384 as El Centro No.
384.

Occidental

22

San Francisco

1852

Consolidated December 2, 1975 with California No. 1 as OccidentalCalifornia No. I.

Ocean Park

369

Santa Monica

1905

Consolidated December I , 1994 with Triangle-Palms No. 512 as Sunset
No.369.

Oceanic

371

Honolulu, HI

1906

Name changed October 12, 1916 to Le Progres de l'Oceanie.
Transferred to Jurisdiction ofHawai May 20,1989

C')

Oil dale

688

Consolidated January I, 1985 with Meudell No. 695 as Meudell-Oildale
No. 695.

0

Bakersfield

1946

Disposition

~

r

Olive Branch

269

Tulare

1883

Consolidated July I, 1990 with Corcoran No. 490 as Olive Branch No.
269.

Olivet

8

364

Coming

1904

Consolidated October I, 1917 with Newville No. 205 as Olivet No.
205 .

~

Ontario

301

Ontario

1890

Consolidated January I, 1986 with Square and Compass No. 834 on
Ontario No. 301.

Ophir

33

Murphys

1853

Consolidated January I, 1988 with Bear Mountain No. 76 as
Ophir-Bear Mountain No. 33 .

Opportunity

740

.,,~
~
>

Hawthorne

1954

Consolidated February I, 1996 with Sunnyside No. 577 as Sunnyside
No. 577.

Orange County Daylight

833

Garden Grove

1982

Consolidated April I, 1989 with Angeles Mesa No. 625 as A.M.
Daylight No. 625.

Oriental

144

San Francisco

1861

Consolidated December 12, 1974 with Forest Hill No. 534 as Oriental
No. 144.

Orinda

704

Orinda

1950

Consolidated December I, 1966 with Piedmont No. 521 as Orinda No.
521.

tT1

(")

"'"""

~

"'
N

Disposition

No.

Location

Chartered

Orland

265

Orland

1882

Consolidated January I, 1992 with Laurel No. 245 as Orland Laurel No.
245.

Oro Fino

137

Oro Fino

1860

Charter surrendered June 1862.

Orosi

383

Orosi

1907

Owen

108

Scott's Bar

1857

Owensmouth

611

Owensmouth

1925

Consolidated July I, 1998 with Clarence E. Fraser No. 294 as DinubaOrosi No. 294.
Consolidated October 15, 1908 with North Star No. 91 as North Star
No. 91.
Subsequent to the name of the community being changed to Canoga
Park, the name of the Lodge was changed October 15, 1931 to Canoga.
Consolidated July I, 1992 with Woodland Hills No. 811 as West Valley
No. 611.
Consolidated October 16, 1902 with Hueneme No. 311 as Oxnard No.

Name

Oxnard

341

Oxnard

1901

341.
Consolidated September 7, 1971 with Lebanon No. 495 as
Lebanon-Pacific No. 136. Consolidated December I, 1988 with United
No. 374 as Lebanon-Pacific No. 136.

Pacific

136

San Francisco

1869

Pacific Grove

331

Pacific Grove

1897

Pajaro

110

Watsonville

1857

Palestine

351

Los Angeles

1903

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Palisades

637

Santa Monica

1926

Consolidated April I , 1987 with Santa Monica No. 307 as Santa
Monica-Palisades No. 307.

Palms

512

Los Angeles

1921

Consolidated January 31, 1984 with West Adams No. 565 as
Palms-Adams No. 512. Consolidated July I, 1992 with Triangle No.
548 as Triangle-Palms No. 512. Consolidated December I, 1994 with
Ocean Park No. 369 as Sunset No. 369.

Palmyra

151

Placerville

1862

Consolidated October 16, 1902 with El Dorado No. 26 as Palmyra No.
26

Palo Alto

346

Palo Alto

1902

Consolidated December I, 1985 with Josiah W. Roller No. 761 as Palo
Alto-Roller No. 346.

Palos Verdes

389

Long Beach

1907

Consolidated December I, 1988 with Seaside No. 504 and All States
No. 593 as International City No. 389.

Paradise

197

Hayward

1869

Charter surrendered July 20, 1972.

Paramount

785

South Gate

Park

449

San Francisco

1914

Consolidated November 2,
Park-Crockett No. 139.

Park Boulevard

568

Oakland

1923

Consolidated April I, 1979 with Verba Beuna No. 403 as Verba Buena
No. 403.

Parnassus

388

San Francisco

1907

Consolidated December I, 1969 with Presidio No. 354 as
Parnassus-Presidio No. 388. Consolidated December I, 1990 with
Columbia-Balder No. 393 as Columbia No-. 388.

1958

...,

~

(Tl

~

Cl

V>

0

"Tl

-!

~

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Gateway No. 821 as Pacific
Grove No. 331.
Consolidated November I, 1991 with Soquel No. 746 as Soquel-Pajaro
No. 110.
Consolidated July I, 1972 with Craftsmen No. 559 as
Palestine-Craftsmen No. 351 . Consolidated January 4, 1982 with
Fountain Valley Bicentennial No. 829 as Fountain Valley No. 351.
Consolidated December I, 1997 with Garden Grove No. 505 as Acacia
Grove No. 351.

Disposition

~

0
t""'
0

~
~

("}

F=

Consolidated December 6, 1983 with Bellflower No. 523 as
Bellflower-Paramount No. 523.
1972 with Crockett No.

0

139 as

~

>

~

~

.j:>.

'f

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Pasadena

272

Pasadena

1884

Consolidated December l, 1990 with Corona No. 324 and San Pasqual
No. 452 as Pasadena Consolidated No. 272. Consolidated July l, 1991
with America No. 475 as Pasadena Consolidated No. 272.
Consolidated March 31, 1995 with Lamanda Park Carmelita No. 627 as
Pasadena No. 272. Consolidated July l, 1995 with Arabic No. 763 as
Pasadena No. 272.

Paso Robles

286

Paso Robles

1887

Consolidated December l, 1968 with San Miguel No. 285 as Paso
Robles No. 286.

Pearl Harbor

598

Honolulu, HI

1924

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

Peninsula

745

Belmont

1955

Penrhyn

258

Penryn

1880

Pentalpha

202

Los Angeles

1869

Consolidated Aprill, 1987 with Menlo Park No. 651 as Menlo Park
Peninsula No. 651.
Consolidated July l, 1992 with Gold Hill No. 32 as Penrhyn Gold Hill
No.32.
Consolidated December l, 1987 with William D. Stephens No. 698 as
Consolidated June l, 1990 with Henry
Pentalpha No. 202.
Knox-Westlake No. 392 as Wisdom No. 202.
Charter surrendered September 26, 1890.
Consolidated December 1898 with Arcturas No. 180 as Petaluma No.
180.
Consolidated January l, 1994 with San Bernardino No. 348 as San
Bernardino No. 178.
Consolidated December l, 1966 with Orinda No. 704 as Orinda No.
521. Consolidated September l, 1985 with Plymouth No. 560 as
Orinda-Plymouth No. 521. Consolidated September l, 1992 with
Acom No. 494 as Orinda No. 494.

Pescadero

239

Pescadero

1875

Petaluma

77

Petaluma

1855

Phoenix

178

San Bernardino

1866

Piedmont

521

Piedmont

1922

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Pilot Hill

160

Pilot Hill

1863

Consolidated December 1898 with Georgetown No. 25 as Georgetown
No.25.

Pinnacle

777

Soledad

1957

Consolidated October l, 1979 with Santa Lucia No. 302 as Santa Lucia
No. 302.

Pinole

353

Hercules

1903

Consolidated January l,
Pinole-Carquinez No. 337.

Plaza de Los Angeles

814

Los Angeles

1963

Consolidated November 1, 1990 with Los Angeles No. 42 as Los
Angeles No. 42.

Pleasanton

218

Livermore

1872

Name changed October 18, 1881 to Mosaic No. 218.

Plymouth

560

Oakland

1923

Consolidated September 1,
Orinda-Plymouth No. 521.

Point

503

Richmond

1921

Consolidated December l, 1988 with Pinole-Carquinez No. 337 as
Point Pinole No. 337.

-

~g:i
~

@
0

'Tl

~

Disposition

1984 with Carquinez No. 337 as

1985 with Orinda No.

521

as

Point Firmin

558

San Pedro

1923

Consolidated December 2, 1981 with San Pedro No. 332 as Los
Angeles Harbor No. 332.

Polar Star

90

Poorman's Creek

1856

Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.

Polaris

730

Citrus Heights

1954

Consolidated April l, 1992 with Rio Linda No. 786 as Rio Linda No.
786.

Ponderosa

700

Fresno

1949

Consolidated April l, 1991 with Las Palmas No. 366 as Las
Palmas-Ponderosa No. 366.

Porterville

303

Porterville

1890

Consolidated June 1, 1987 with Lindsay No. 416 as Porterville Lindsay
No. 303.

Presidio

354

San Francisco

1903

Consolidated December l, 1969 with Parnassus No. 288 as
Parnassus-Presidio No. 388.

0

~

~
~

()

~

~

>

.j:>.

'°
VI

"""

°'"°

Name

No.

Location

Progress

125

San Francisco

1858

Charter revoked October 14, 1870.

Progressive

578

Alhambra

1923

Consolidated December I, 1986 with Alhambra No. 322 as Alhambra
Progressive No. 322.

Pyramid

562

San Francisco

1923

Consolidated December 4, 1973 with Ingleside No. 630 as
Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562.
Consolidated July 3, 1979 with
Occidental-California No. I as Occidental-California No. I.

Quartzburg

98

Quartzburg

1856

Moved to Hornitos, name changed May 1860 to Hornitos No. 98.

Queen Beach

540

Long Beach

1923

Consolidated October I, 1989 with Monte Vista No. 655 as Queen
Vista No. 540. Consolidated September I, 1994 with Long Beach No.
327 as Long Beach No. 327.

Ramona

457

Monterey Park

1915

Consolidated April 2, 1974 with Belvedere-Sunrise No. 522 as
Monterey Park No. 457. Consolidated October I, 1980 with Maccabee
No. 823 as Monterey Park No.457. Consolidated December I, 1988
with Rosemead No. 702 as Rosemead No. 457.

Chartered

Disposition

Reading

254

Redding

1879

Consolidated December 19, 1925 with Kennett No. 456 as Reading No.
254.

Reedley

304

Reedley

1891

Consolidated April I, 1996 with Selma No. 277 as Selma No. 277.

Rialto

582

Rialto

1924

Consolidated January I, 1995 with Golden Ashlar No. 306 as Inland
Empire No. 306.

Richmond

375

San Francisco

1906

Consolidated July I, 1974 with Military Service No. 570 as
Brotherhood No. 375. Consolidated July I, 1987 with Amity No. 370
as Brotherhood No. 370.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Consolidated July I, 1988 with El Rancho No. 759 as El Rancho Rio
Hondo No. 800. Consolidated June I, 1993 with Montebello No. 451
as Montebello No. 451.

~

~

5l
~

~

Disposition

Rio Hondo

800

El Monte

1960

Rio Linda

786

Rio Linda

1958

.

Consolidated April I, 1992 with Polaris No. 730 as Rio Linda No. 786.

Rising Light

397

South Gate

1908

Consolidated January I, 1996 with Downey No. 220 and Southeast No.
596 as Downey United No. 220.

Rising Star

83

Forest Hill

1856

Consolidated September 2, 1919 with Eureka No. 16 as Eureka No. 16.

Rising Sun

153

Brandy City

1862

Charter surrendered October 13, I 864.

Riverdale

4%

Riverdale

1921

Consolidated May 18, 1943 with Welcome No. 255 as Welcome No.
255.

0

Dispensation 1870. Charter never issued.

(')

Rocklin

Rocklin
Rockridge

468

Oakland

1917

Consolidated December 6,
Oakland-Rockridge No. 188.

1983 with Oakland No.

C)

~
~

t"""

'Tl

188 as

Rolling Hills

781

Lomita

1957

Consolidated October 5, 1983 with Torrance No. 447 as Torrance No.
447.

Roosevelt

500

San Francisco

1921

Consolidated July I, 1975 with Golden Gate Speranza No. 30 as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30.

Rose's Bar

89

Smartsville

1856

Consolidated November I, 1992 with Enterprise No. 70 as Enterprise
No. 70.

Rosemead

702

Rosemead

1949

Consolidated December I, 1988 with Monterey Park No. 457 as
Rosemead No. 457.

Roseville

432

Roseville

1912

Consolidated May 29, 1919 with Granite No. 222 as Roseville No. 222.

~

'Tl

0

~

>

"°"""
-..)

.j:>.

\Q

00

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Disposition

Rough and Ready

52

Rough and Ready

1854

Charter surrendered November 1864.

Saddleback Valley

832

El Toro

1978

Consolidated April l, 1987 with Laguna Beach No. 672 as Saddelback
Laguna No. 672.

Saint Elmo

697

Alameda

1948

Consolidated December 4, 1979 with Sequoia No. 349 as Sequoia-St.
Elmo No. 349.

Saint James

54

Jamestown

1854

Charter Surrendered February 20, 1875.

Saint John's

725

Concord

1953

Consolidated March l, 1986 with Clayton Valley No. 756 as Clayton
Valley Saint John's No. 756.

Saint Louis

86

Howland's Flat

1856

Consolidated November 1882 with Gibsonville No. 158 as Gibsonville
No. 158.

Saint Mark's

115

Fiddletown

1857

Consolidated October 17, 1874 with Indian Diggings No. 85 as St.
Mark's No. 85 .

Salinas

204

Salinas

1869

Consolidated December 1, 1992 with The Gabilan No. 803 as Salinas
No. 204.

San Antonio

694

Whittier

1947

Consolidated April 2, 1982 with Tyre No. 741 as Tyre No. 741.

San Bernardino

348

San Bernardino

1902

Consolidated January 1, 1994 with Phoenix No. 178 as San Bernardino
No. 178.

San Clemente

671

San Clemente

1929

Consolidated November l, 1997 with Irvine No. 841 as Irvine Valley
No. 671.

San Francisco

360

San Francisco

1904

Consolidated November 29, 1961 with Victory No. 474 as San
Francisco-Victory No. 360. Consolidated December 6, 1972 with
Excelsior No. 166 as San Francisco No. 166.

San Gabriel

546

San Gabriel

1923

Consolidated December l, 1977 with Southern Californai No. 278 as
San Gabriel-Southern California No. 278.

Name

No.

Location

San Joaquin

19

Stockton

1852

San Leandro

744

San Leandro

1955

San Lorenzo Valley

718

Felton

1953

.

Consolidated November l, 1994 with Santa Cruz No. 38 as Santa CruzSan Lorenzo Valley No. 38 .

San Lius Obispo

1861

Charter surrendered December 2, 1865.

San Marino

1944

Consolidated July l, 1994 with Malta-El Sereno No. 588 as San Marino
No. 588.
Consolidated December l, 1968 with Paso Robles No.286 as Paso
Robles No. 286.
Consolidated December I, 1991 with McKinley No. 347, and Harbor
No. 502 as El Portal No. 347.
Consolidated December I, 1990 with Pasadena No. 272 and Corona No.
324 as Pasadena Consolidated No. 272.

San Luis Obispo
San Marino

685

Chartered

~

@
~

~

Disposition

San Miguel

285

San Miguel

San Pablo

754

Richmond

1955

San Pasqual

452

Pasadena

1914

San Pedro

332

San Pedro

1897

Consolidated December 2, 1981 with Point Firmin No. 558 as Los
Angeles Harbor No. 332. Consolidated July l, 1986 with A.F .E. Irwin
No. 645 as Los Angeles Harbor No. 332.

San Ramon Valley

724

Danville

1953

Santa Ana

241

Santa Ana

1876

Consolidated November I, 1997 with Alisa! Sequoia No. 321 as Alisa!Sequoia-San Ramon No. 321.
Consolidated December 1, 1986 with Tustin No. 828 as Tustin No. 241 .

Santa Clara

34

Santa Clara

1853

Charter revoked October I 5, 1887.

Santa Cruz

1854

Consolidated November I, 1994 with San Lorenzo Valley No. 718 as
Santa Cruz-San Lorenzo Valley No. 38.

38

~

m
m

Consolidated December I, 1986 with Channel No. 757 as San Joaquin
No.19.
Consolidated December 6, 1983 with Brooklyn No. 225 as San
Leandro-Brooklyn No. 225 .

1887

Santa Cruz

"ti

0

~0
l'

~

~

()

~

~>

.j:>.

\Q
\Q

IJl

0
0

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Santa Lucia

302

King City

1890

Consolidated October I, 1979 with Pinnacle No. 77 as Santa Lucia No.
302.

Santa Maria

340

Santa Maria

1900

Consolidated October 13, 1910 with Hesperian No. 264.

Santa Monica

307

Santa Monica

1891

Consolidated April I, 1987 with Palisades No. 637 as Santa
Monica-Palisades No. 307. Consolidated March I, 1996 with West Los
Angeles No. 373 as Santa Monica-Palisades No. 307.

Santa Paula

291

Santa Paula

1888

Consolidated May I, 1992 with Fillmore No. 379 as Fillmore-Santa
Paula No. 291.

Santa Rosa

57

Santa Rosa

1855

Consolidated December 13, 1997 with Luther Burbank No. 752 as
Santa Rosa Luther Burbank No. 57.

Schofield

443

Wahiawa, HI

1914

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

Seafaring

708

Newport Beach

1950

Consolidated September I, 1996 with Jubilee No. 604 as Seafaring No.
604.

Seal Beach

616

Seal Beach

1925

Name changed October 14, 1937 to R.E. Dolley. Consolidated March
1, 1989 with Los Alamitos No. 809 as R.E. Dolley No. 616.
Consolidated December I, 1992 with Westminster Fairview No. 629 as
WestBeach No. 616. Consolidated January I, 1998 with Huntington
Beach No. 380 as Huntington Beach No. 380.

Seal Rock

536

San Francisco

1922

Consolidated March I, 1963 with Amity No. 370 as Amity-Seal Rock
No. 370.

Seaport

550

San Francisco

1923

Consolidated December 5, 1963 with King Solomon's No. 260 as King
Solomon's Seaport No. 260.

Searchlight

567

Long Beach

1923

Consolidated December I, 1976 with Alta Loma No. 643 as Seachlight
Alta Loma No. 567. Consolidated June I, 1988 with Belmont Shore
No. 716 as Pacific Rim No. 567.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Seaside

504

Long Beach

1921

Security

581

Bakersfield

1924

Selma

277

Selma

1885

Consolidated October 14, 1915 with Fowler No. 398 as Selma No. 277.
Consolidated April 1, 1996 with Reedley No. 304 as Selma No. 277.

Sequoia

349

Oakland

1902

Consolidated December 4, 1979 with Saint Elmo No. 697 as
Sequoia-St. Elmo No. 349. Consolidated August I, 1994 with Alisal
No. 321 as Alisal-Sequoia No. 321.

0

t"""'

Disposition

'"ti

R
gi
~
"'..,,0

Cl

...,
~

Disposition
Consolidated December 1,1988 with Palos Verdes No. 389 and All
State No. 593 as International City No. 389.
Consolidated December I, 1986 with Libertas No. 466 as ·
Libertas-Security No. 466.

Service

594

Long Beach

1924

Consolidated April l, 1989 with Signal Five Points No. 543 as
Shoreline No. 543 .

Sierra Madre

408

Sierra Madre

1910

Consolidated May I, 1987 with Altadena-Mt. Wilson No. 678 as Alta
Mt. Sierra No. 408.

Sierra Valley

184

Sierraville

1867

Consolidated November 6, 1972 with Loyalton No. 359 as Sierra
Valley No. 184.

Signal

543

Long Beach

1923

Consolidated October 1, 1985 with Five Points No. 779 as Signal Five
Points No. 543. Consolidated April 1, 1989 with Service No. 594 as
Shoreline No. 543. Consolidated June 1, 1997 with Long Beach No.
327 as Long Beach No . 327.

Silver City

163

Silver City, NV

1863

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada January 16, 1865.

Silver Cord

505

Santa Ana

1921

Consolidated July I, 1990 with Garden Grove No. 586 as Garden Grove
No. 505 . Consolidated December I, 1997 with Fountain Valley No.
351 as Acacia Grove No. 351 .

Silver Star

165

Gold Hill, NV

1864

Transferred to Jurisdiction ofNevada January 16, 1865.

~

0

~

~

g..,,
~
>

VI

0

VI

s

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Silver Trowel

415

Los Angeles

1910

Consolidated November I, 1996 with Los Angeles No. 42 as Los
Angeles Silver Trowel No. 42.

Silverado

782

Napa

1958

Consolidated May I, 1993 with St. Helena No. 93 as Napa Valley No.
93.

Silveyville

201

Silveyville

1869

Consolidated June I, 1995 with Athens No. 228 as Athens-Silveyville
No. 201.

Sincerity

132

Greenville

1859

Consolidated October 16, 1896 with Greenville No. 249 as Sincerity
No. 132.

Siskiyou

105

Henley

1856

Consolidated October 11, 1876 with St. John's No. 37 as St. John's No.
37.

Sisson

310

Sisson

1892

Consolidated January, I, 1988 with White Pine No. 555 as
Sission-White Pine No. 310.

Sojourner

607

Duarte

1925

Consolidated September I, 1993 with Glendora No. 404 as Glendora
No.404.

Solano

229

Vallejo

1873

Consolidated December I, 1989 with Vallejo No. 487 as Vallejo-Salano
No. 229. Consolidated February I, 1994 with Naval No. 87 as Naval
No. 87.

Solomon

Tombstone, AZ

Disposition

~

tTl

~

@
~

~

Dispensation 1881. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona March 25,
1882.

Soquel

746

Soquel

1955

Consolidated November I, 1991 with Pajaro No. 110 as Soquel-Pajaro
No. 110.

Sotoyo me

123

Healdsburg

1858

Consolidated July I, 1988 with Curtis No. 140 as Sotoyome-Curtis No.
123.

South Gate

320

South Gate

1894

Consolidated June 30, 1987 with Bellflower Paramount No. 523 as
Bellflower No. 320.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

South Park

563

Playa del Rey

1923

Consolidated January I, 1981 with Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392 as
Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392.

South Pasadena

367

South Pasadena

1905

.

Consolidated December 10, 1973 with Metropolitan No. 646 as South
Pasadena No. 367. Consolidated August I, 1991 with Golden Gavel
No. 445 as South Pasadena No. 367. Consolidated December I, 1992
with Fellowship No. 290 as South Pasadena No. 290.

Disposition

South San Francisco

212

Daly City

1870

Consolidated July I, 1989 with Crocker No. 454 as Crocker No. 212.

Southern California

278

San Gabriel

1884

Consolidated December I, 1977 with San Gabriel No. 546 as San
Gabriel-Southern California No. 278. Consolidated December I, 1992
with Arcadia No. 547 as Arcadia San Gabriel No. 278. Consolidated
January I, 1997 with Camellia No. 612 as Arcadia No. 278.

0

Southland

618

Glendale

1925

Consolidated July I, 1979 with Heritage No. 764 as Southland Heritage
No. 618. Consolidated April I, 1990 with Magnolia Park No. 715 as
Magnolia Park No. 618.

Speranza Italiana

219

San Francisco

1872

Consolidated July 1966 with Golden Gate No. 30 as Golden Gate
Speranza No. 30.

Square and Compass

834

Chino

1982

Consolidated January I, 1986 with Ontario No. 301 as Ontario No. 301.

St. John's

37

Yreka

1854

Consolidated October 11, 1876 with Siskiyou No. 105 as St. John's No.
37. Consolidated December 8, 1924 with Howard No. 96 as Howard
No.37.

Standard

440

San Lorenzo

1914

Consolidated December I, 1985 with Eden No. 113 as Eden-Standard
No. 113.

Starr King

344

San Francisco

1902

Consolidated April I, 1974 with Doric No. 216 as Starr King No. 344.
Consolidated December I, 1986 with King Solomon's Seaport No. 260
as Starr King No. 344.

~

0

i
~

("')

~

~

>

VI

0

l,;.J

VI

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Stockton

498

Stockton

1921

Sublime

831

Benicia

1978

Disposition

~

Consolidated December 1987 with Morning Star No. 68 as Morning
Star No. 68.
Consolidated August I, 1993 with Benicia No. 5 as Sublime Benicia
No. 5.
Consolidated October I, 1992 with Fresno No. 247 and Center No. 465
as Fresno No. 247.
Consolidated February l, 1996 with Opportunity No. 740 as Sunnyside

Sun Garden

530

Fresno

1922

Sunnyside

577

Hawthorne

1923

Sunnyvale

Sil

Sunnyvale

1921

Consolidated July I, 1990 with Cupertino No. 510 as DeAnza No. 511 .

Sunrise

522

Monterey Park

1922

Sunset

290

Consolidated July I, 1968 with Belvedere No. 539 as Belvedere Sunrise
No. 522. Consolidated April 2, 1974 with Ramona No. 467 as
Monterey Park No. 457.
Name changed October 12, 1899 to East Gate. Consolidated January
6, 1982 with Highland Park No. 382 as Fellowship No. 290.
Consolidated November 3, 1982 with Garvanza No. 492 as Fellowship
No. 290. Consolidated December l, 1992 with South Pasadena No. 367
as South Pasadena No. 290. Consolidated December I, 1993 with
Eagle Rock Glassell No. 422 as South Pasadena No. 290.

No. 577.

Los Angeles

1888

'"C

~

tT1
tT1

~0

Vl

~
-l

1ii

Consolidated December 4, 1973 with Albert Pike No. 484 as Sunset No.
352. Consolidated December 3, 1981 with Golden State Benevolence
No. 358 as Metropolitan No. 352.
Consolidated July 1962 with North East No. 266 as Surprise Valley No.

Sunset

352

Los Angeles

1903

Surprise Valley

235

Cedarvill

1874

Sutter

6

Sacramento

1850

Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.

Taft

516

Taft

1922

Consolidated July l, 192 with Miday No. 426 as Taft-midway No. 426.

235.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Tehachapi

313

Tehachapi

1892

Consolidated July 24, 1978 with Arvin No. 738 as Tehachapi No. 313.

Tejon

773

Bakersfield

1957

Temblor

477

Fellows

1'122

Consolidated December I, 1991 with Caledonia No. 486 as Caledonia
No. 486.
Consolidated April l , 1975 with Taft-Midway No. 426 as Taft-Midway
No. 426.

Temescal

314

Corona

1893

Temple City

612

Temple City

1925

Disposition

Consolidated January 24, 1998 with Victoria Palms No. 810 as
Temescal Palms No. 314.
Consolidated December I, 1982 with Camellia No. 805 as Camellia No.
612. Consolidated January I, 1997 with Arcadia San Gabriel No. 278
as Arcadia No. 278.

The Gabilan

803

Salinas

1961

Consolidated December I, 1992 with Salinas No. 204 as Salinas No.
204.

The Gardens

621

Pico Rivera

1925

Consolidated February I, 1994 with Greenleaf No. 670 as Greenleaf
Gardens No. 670.

Thousand Oaks

478

Berkeley

1920

Consolidated October 1968 with Indian Rock No. 638 as Thousand
Oaks No. 478. Consolidated October I, 1981 with Berkeley No. 363
as Berkeley No. 363 .

Three Pillars

613

Sacramento

1925

Consolidated January l, 1992 with Travelers No. 692 as Three Pillars
No. 613 .

Tila Pass

797

Los Angeles

1960

Consolidated July I, 1993 with Atwater Larchmont No. 614 as Atwater
Larchmont Tila Pass No. 614.

Torrance

447

Torrance

1914

Consolidated October 5, 1983 with Rolling Hills No. 781 as Torrance
No. 447. Consolidated January l, 1996 with University No. 394 as
Torrance University No. 394.

Travelers

692

Sacramento

1947

Consolidated January I, 1992 with Three Pillars No. 613 as Three
Pillars No. 613.

C>

~

0

t""'

~

~

(")

~
::;;
0

~

>

VI

0

VI

v.
0

Disposition

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Traver

294

Kingsburg

1889

Triad

812

Montebello

1963

Triangle

548

Venice

1923

Truth

597

Los Angeles

1924

Consolidated February 14, 1939 with Beacon of the West No. 628 as
Truth No. 628.

Tucson

263

Tucson, AZ

1881

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona March 25, 1882.

Tuolumne

8

Sonora

1850

Consolidated December 1876 with Mount Jefferson No. 107 as
Tuolumne No. 8. Consolidated December 12, 1891 with Columbia No.
28 as Tuolumne No. 8. Consolidated September I 5, 1919 with George
Washington No. 62 as Tuolumne No. 8. Consolidated July I, 1998
with East Belt No. 391 as East Belt-Tuolumne No. 8.

°'

Consolidated July I, 1977 with Dinuba No. 385 as Clarence L. Fraser
No. 294. Consolidated July I, 1998 with Orosi No. 383 as DinubaOrosi No. 294.
Consolidated August I, 1985 with Montebello No. 451 as Montebello
No. 451.
Consolidated July I, 1992 with Palms-Adams No. 512 as
Triangle-Palms No. 512.

Consolidated December I, 1989 with Arbuckle No. 182 and Maxwell
No. 288 as Tuscan Maxwell No. 182.

.,,

g
~

~

@
~
-t

fii

Tuscan

261

Williams

1880

Tustin

828

Santa Ana

1971

Two Rivers

731

Bell

1954

Consolidated December I, 1986 with Santa Ana No. 241 as Tustin No.
241.
Consolidated February 1987 with Bell No. 483 as Bell No. 483.

Tyre

238

Gold Run

1875

Charter surrendered October 16, 1884.

Tyre

741

Downey

1955

Consolidated April 2, 1982 with San Antonio No. 694 as Tyre No. 741.
Consolidated December I, 1991 with Anchor No. 273, Manchester No.
585, and Lynwood No. 600 as Golden Trowel No. 273.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Tyrian

284

Dunnigan

1887

Consolidated October 11, 1911 with Woodland No. 156 as Woodland
No. 156.

Tyro

73

Drytown

1855

Charter surrendered December 27, 1859.

Union

58

Sacramento

1855

Consolidated December I, 1990 with Kit Carson No. 734 as Union Kit
Carson No. 58.

Unity

88

Orleans Flat

1856

Name changed May 8, 1856 to Quitman No. 88. Consolidated October
13, 1910 with Nevada No. 13 as Nevada No. 13.

0

Unity

130

San Bernardino

1859

Charter revoked May 13, 1863.

0

Disposition

~

t""'

Unity

368

Glendale

1905

Consolidated April I, 1979 with Verdugo Hill No. 727 as Verdugo
Hills-Unity No. 368. Consolidated April 4, 1983 with Frank S. Aland
No. 819 as Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368. Consolidated April 5, 1983
with Meridian No. 667 as Jewel City No. 368. Consolidated October
I, 1994 with Crescenta Canada No. 652 as Jewel City No. 368.
Consolidated April I, 1997 with Glendale No. 544 as Glendale No. 368.

University

394

Torrance

1908

Consolidated January I, 1996 with Torrance No. 447 as Torrance
University No. 394.

Upland

419

Upland

1911

Consolidated March I, 1998 with Mount Baldy No. 815 as Upland-Mt.
Baldy No. 419.

Utopia

537

VanNuys

1922

Consolidated October I, 1981 with Van Nuys No. 450 as Van Nuys No.
450.

Vallecito

118

Vallecito

1858

Charter surrendered January 5, 1859.

Vallejo

487

Vallejo

1920

Consolidated December I, 1989 with Solano No. 229 as Vallejo-Solano
No. 229.

8
m

~
(j

F:

::;;
0

~

>

v.

0

-.I

._,,
0

00

Chartered

Name

No.

Location

Valley Forge

587

Playa del Rey

1924

Van Nuys

450

VanNuys

1914

Verdugo Hills

727

Glendale

1953

Veritas

640

San Francisco

1926

Vermont Square

515

Inglewood

1922

Veteran

373

Sawtelle

1906

Disposition
Consolidated December 7, 1978 with Westchester-Madison No. 572 as
Westchester-United No. 572.
'
Consolidated November I, 1996 with Zenith Mount Olive No. 506 as
Van Nuys No. 450.
Consolidated April I, 1979 with Unity No. 368 as Verdugo Hills-Unity
No. 368.
Consolidated December 3, 1963 with Jonathan No. 646 as
Veritas-Jonathan No. 545.
Consolidated December I, 1971 with Moneta No. 405 as Moneta No.
405.
Name changed October 12, 1939 to West Los Angeles No. 373.
Consolidated March I, 1996 with Santa Monica-Palisades No. 307 as
Santa Monica-Palisades No. 307.
Consolidated January 24, 1998 with Temescal No. 314 as Temescal
Palms No. 314.
Consolidated November 29, 1961 with San Francisco No. 360 as San
Francisco-Victory No. 360.

Victoria Palms

810

Riverside

1962

Victory

474

San Francisco

1919

Violet

138

Spanish Flat

1869

Charter surrendered October 16, 1879.

Virginia City

162

Virginia City, NV

1863

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada January 16, 1865.

Visalia

128

Visalia

1859

Waikiki

774

Honolulu, HI

1957

Consolidated April I, 1994 with Mineral King No. 720 as Visalia No.
128.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii May 20, 1989.

Name

No.

Location

Chartered

Washoe

157

Washoe City, NV

1863

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada January 16, 1865.

Waucoba

413

Big Pine

1910

Consolidated January 10, 1945 with Inyo No. 221 as Inyo No. 221.

Wayfarer

717

Whittier

1_952

Consolidated December I, 1991 with East Whittier No. 776 as East
Whittier Wayfarer No. 776.

Welcome

255

Lemoore

1879

Consolidated May 18, 1843 with Riverdale No. 496 as Welcome No.
255. Consolidated January I, 1991 with Coalinga No. 387 as Welcome
No. 255.

West Adams

565

Culver City

1923

~

0

~

(J)

~

~

Disposition

Consolidated January JI , 1984 with Palms No. 512 as Palms-Adams
No. 512.

West Covina

758

West Covina

1956

Consolidated July I, 1985 with La Puente No. 446 as West Covina-La
Puente No. 446.

West Gate

335

Los Angeles

1899

Consolidated July I, 1994 with Loyalty No. 529 as West Gate Loyalty
No. 529.

Westchester

703

Playa del Rey

1950

Consolidated April I, 1976 with James Madison No. 572 as
Westchester-Madison No. 572.

Western Star

2

Shasta

1850

Consolidated October 15, 1936 with Clinton No. 119 as Western Star
No. 2.

Westlake

392

Los Angeles

1908

Consolidated April 2, 1975 with Henry Knox No. 662 as Henry
Knox-Westlake No. 392. Consolidated January I, 1981 with South Prk
No. 563 as Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392. Consolidated June I, 1990
with Pentalpha No. 202 as Wisdom No. 202.

Westminster

787

Huntington Beach

1958

Consolidated July 7, 1978
Westminster-Fairview No. 629.

Westport

270

Westport

1884

Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.

with

Fairview

No.

629

C')

~

r'

~
~

g
~

>

as

._,,
0

'GI

VI

0

Charte red

Name

No.

Locatio n

White Pine

SSS

Weed

1923

William B. Ogden

816

North Hollywood

1964

William D. Stephens

698

Los Angeles

1948

Williamette

11

Portland, OR

18SO

Wilmington

198

Wilmington

1869

Wilshire

44S

Los Angeles

1914

Disposition
Sisson-White
Consolidated January I, 1988 with Sisson No. 310 as
Pine No. 310.
Hollywood
Consolidated September 1977 with Hollywood No. 3SS as
No. 3SS.
Consolidated December I, 1987 with Pentalpha No. 202
No. 202.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon November 18SI.

as Pentalpha

Windsor

116

Windsor

18S7

Gate No.
Consolidated October I, 1996 with Lomita No. 644 as Angels
198.
No. S66 as
Consolidated October I, 1973 with James A. Garfield
with Henry
1980
I,
er
Decemb
dated
wilshire-Garfield No. 44S . Consoli
August I,
S. Orme No. 4S8 as Golden Gavel No. 44S. Consolidated
367.
No.
a
Pasaden
South
as
367
No.
a
1991 with South Pasaden
Charter surrendered May 18, 1861 .

Wisconsin Hill

74

Wisconsin Hill

18SS

Charter surrendered August 29, 18S7.

Woodland

IS6

Woodland

1863

Woodland Hills

811

Canoga Park

1962

"i::i

~m
m

~Cl

Vl

~

~

nd No.
Consolidated October 11, 1911 with Tyrian No. 284 as Woodla
nd No. 81.
IS6. Consolidated June I, 198S with Yolo No. 81 as Woodla
Valley No.
Consolidated July I, 1992 with Canoga No. 611 as West
611.

Woodstock

491

Alameda

1920

YerbaB uena

403

Oakland

1909

Name

No.

Locatio n

Charte red

Yolo

81

Yolo

18S6

York

423

Walnut Park

1912

Yosemite

133

Coulterville

18S9

Yuba

39

Marysville

18S4

Zenith

768

Van Nuys

19S7

396 as
Consolidated December 6, 1983 with ApolJo No.
396.
No.
ock
Woodst
ApolJoS68 as Yerba
Consolidated April I, 1979 with Park Boulevard No.
No. 61 as
Buena No. 403. Consolidated March I, 1994 with Live Oak
.
61
Live Oak No.

Disposition
nd No.
Consolidated June I, 198S with Woodland No. IS6 as Woodla
81. Consolidated December I, 1997 with Grafton No. 141 as
Woodland No. 81.
Florence No.
Consolidated December 3, 1970 with Florence No. 649 as
as Artesia
377
No.
Artesia
with
1987
I,
er
423. Consolidated Decemb
No. 377.
Yosemite No.
Consolidated October 16, 1913 with La Grange No. 99 as
99.
ian No. 9.
Consolidated June 16, 1916 with Corinthian No. 9 as Corinth
No. S06 as
Consolidated December I, 1989 with Mount Olive
Zenith-Mount Olive No. S06.

0

~

t""'
0

~

~

~

r

~

~

VI

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

513

ELECTED OFFICERS OF GRAND LoDGE F.&A.M. OF CALIFORNIA
Since its Organization, April 18, 1850
18SO
Jonathan D . Stevenson . . . G.M.
California No. I
Bom Jan . I, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894
John A. Tutt . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Caleb Fenner .......... S.G.W.
Suhel Woods ... . ..... J.G.W.
Levi Stowell ............ G.T.
John H. Gihon . ..... . .. .. G .S.

18SS
William H. Howard . . . . . . G.M.
San Jose No. 10
Bom Aus. 29, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 1866
T.A. Thomas . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
J.A . Raymond .. ....... S.G.W.
Sam A. Merritt ........ J.G.W.
Addison Manin ...• . . , ... G.T.
Levi Stowell . . .. . ..... .. G.S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Cunis . . . . . . G.M.
Wuhinston No. 20
Bom Feb. 8, I 82S
Died July 12, 1897
P.W. Shepheard ..... . . D.G.M.
Wm . C. Belcher ....... S.G.W.
Alvinza Hayard . ....... J.G.W.
Addison Manin . . . . • . . . . . G. T.
Ale>< G. Abell ..... ...... G.S.

ISSI
John A. Tutt . . . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Tehama No. 3
Bom Feb. 4, 181 S
Died May 19, 1900
Benj. D . Hyam . . . . . . . D.G.M.
E.F.F. Ellis .. • ........ S.G.W.
Benj. S. Olda .......... J.G.W.
Townsend A. Thomu ..... G.T.
Levi Stowell .. , ....... .. G.S.

1856
William H . Howard . ... .. G.M.
San Jose No. 10
Born Aus. 29, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 1866
John A .Raymond ...... D.G.M.
Lemuel Lyon .......... S.G. W.
Peter W. Randle ....... J.G.W.
Addison Manin .......... G.T.
Alex G . Abell ........... G.S.

1861
James L. Enslish . . . . . . . . G.M.
Saaamento No. 40
Bom June S, 1813
Died May 29, 1889
Wm. C. Belcher . . . . . . D.G.M.
John W. Harville ....... S.G.W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....• J.G.W.
Jama Laidley . .......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam . . . . . . G.M .
Benicia No. S
Bom March I, 1813
Died July 12, 1893
Chu. M . Radcliff . . . . • D.G .M.
J.R. McConnel . ....... J.G.W.
Addison Manin . ... . ..... G .T.
Levi Stowell . . ... .. ..... G.S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Cunis . . . . . . G .M.
Wuhinston No. 20
Born Feb. 8, 182S
Died July 12, 1897
Charles Marsh . .••••. • D.G .M.
Aaron D. Park .. ...... . S.G.W.
John B. Pope .. . ....... J.G.W .
Addison Manin .. . . •. . ... G.T .
Al"" G .Abell .. .......... G.S.

1862
William C . Belcher . . . . . . G.M .
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept I, 189S
Gil. B. Claiborne . . . . . . D .G.M .
John W. Harville .. . . .. . S.G.W.
John B. Hewson ... . ... J.G.W.
James Laidley .. , ........ G.T.
Al"" G. Abell ........ , .. G.S .

1853
Charles M. Radcliff. . . . . . G.M.
Tuolumne No.8
Bom Feb. S, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1889
T .A. Thomas . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
J.R. Cmadall · .. .. . .. . . . S.G.W.
Richard F. Knott . . ..... J.G.W.
Addison Manin . . ..... .. . G.T.
Levi Stowell .. .. .... .... G.S.

1858
Nathaniel G . Curtis . . . . . . G.M.
Wuhinston No. 20
Bom Feb. 8, I 82S
Died July 12, 1897
P.W . Shepheard. . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm . McCormiclc . .•... S.G .W.
J.W. Bicknell .. . ...... J.G .W.
Addison Manin ... .. . .. • . G .T .
Alex G. Abell ..... ... .. . G .S.

1863
William C. Belcher . . . . . . G.M.
Corinthian No. 69
Bom Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, 189S
Gil. B. Claiborne .. .... D.G.M.
Louie Cohn .. . .• • . . .•. S.G.W.
Wm. A. Davies .. .. . . . . J.G .W.
James Laidley ..... . .• .. . G.T.
Alex G. Abell .... .. .. ... G.S .

1854
William H. Howard . . . . . . G.M.
San Jose No. 10
eom Aus. 29, 181 o
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Nath. G . Cunis . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Rector E.Cole ......... S.G.W.
Robt. N. Wood ........ J.G.W.
Addison Manin •......... G.T.
Levi Stowell .. .......... G.S.

1859
Nathaniel G . Cunis . . . . . . G.M.
Wuhinston No. 20
Born Feb. 8, 182S
Died July 12, 1897
P.W . Shepheard . . ..... D.G.M.
Ebenezer Lane ......... S.G.W.
Thos. P. Hawley ....... J.G.W.
Addison Manin .......... G.T.
Al.,. G . Abell . .......... G.S.

1864
William C. Belcher . . . . . . G .M.
Corinthian No. 69
Bom Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, I 89S
Gil. B. Claiborne . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm . A. Davies ........ S.G.W.
buc S. Tihll .......... J.G.W.
Jama Laidley ........... G.T.
Ale>< G . Abell ........... G.S.

.

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1865

1871

1877

Gilbert B. Claiborne . . . . . G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wm. A. Davies . . . . . . . D.G.M.
lsuc S. Titus .......... S.G.W.
Henry H. Hartley ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley ....... .... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

Leonidas E. Pratt . . . . . . . . G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Aus. 29, I 8JJ
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Chu. L. Wiggin . . . . . . D.G.M.
Benj. H. Freeman ... , .. S.G.W.
Geo. C. Perkins ........ J.G.W.
James Laidley ... ..... ... G. T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

John M. Browne . . . . . . . . G.M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 18J I
Died Dec. 1, 1894
Chu. L. Wiggin . .
D.G.M.
Wm. W. Traylor ....... S.G.W.
Wm. H. Crane .. ...... . J.G.W.
G.S. Mo,.. Heller ........ G.T.
Alex G.Abell ............ G.S.

1866

1872

1878

Gilbert B. Claiborne . . . . . G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Henry H. Hartley . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. H. Petenon ....... S.G.W.
Thomas Beck . . . ...... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell . ..... ..... G.S.

Leonidas E. Pratt . . . . . . . . G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Aus. 29, 1833
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Benj. H. Freeman . . . . . D.G.M.
Geo. C. Perli:ins ........ S.G.W.
John M. Browne ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley ... . .. .. .. , G.T.
Alex G. Abell ... ... ..... G.S.

John M. Browne . . . . . . . . G.M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 18JI
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Wm. W. Traylor . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. H. Crane ......... S.G.W.
Robt. C. Broder ........ J.G.W.
Moses Heller .... ...... .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell ..... ..... . G.S.

1867

1873

1879

William A. Davies . . . . . . . G.M.
Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916
Henry H. Hartley . . . . . . D.G.M.
Thomas Beck . ........ S.G.W.
Leonidas E. Pratt ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley . .. ........ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ... ... ... .. G.S.

!sue S. Titus . . . . . . . . . . . G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Died April 22, 1892
Geo. C. Perli:ins . . . . . . . D.G.M.
John M. Browne ....... S.G.W.
ChuE. Mitchell . .. .. .. J.G.W.
James Laidley ....... . ... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

William W. Traylor . . . . . . G.M.
California No. I
Born March 17, 1822
Died Jan. 18, 188J
Samuel C. Denson . . . . . D.G.M.
Clay W. Taylor ........ S.G.W.
John Q. Adams ........ J.G.W.
Moses Heller .......... .. G.T.
Alex G.Abell ............ G.S.

1868

1874

1880

Charles Minh . . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Nevada No. 13
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Died April 28, 1876
Leonidas E. Pratt . . . . . . D.G.M.
Theo. G. Cockrill . . .... S.G.W.
Fred F. Bans .......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell , .......... G.S.

Georac C. Perli:ins .....•. G.M.
Oroville No. I OJ
Born Aus. 2J, 18J9
Died Feb. 26, 192J
John M. Browne . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. B. Pulcer ........ S.G.W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ........ J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ..•........ G.S.

Samuel C. Denson . . . . . . . G.M.
Union No. 58
Born Sept. ll, J8J9
Died July 26, 1917
Oay W. Taylor . . . . . . . D.G.M.
John Q. Adams ........ S.G.W.
O.W. Hollenbeck ...... J.G.W.
Mo,.. Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell .........•. G.S.

1869

1875

1881

Leonidas E. Pratt . . . . . . . . G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Aug. 29, I 8JJ
Died Oct. 25, 1886
lsiw: S. Titus. ........ D.G.M.
John S. Ward .......... S.G.W.
Richard Dale .. ........ J.G.W.
JamesLaidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. . ........ G.S.

John M. Browne . . . . . . . . G.M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 18JI
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Chu. L. Wiggin . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ....... . S.G.W.
Jacob H. Neff ......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

Clay W. Taylor . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Wescem Star No. 2
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Died May I, 1897
John Q. Adams . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines ...... S.G.W.
Thos. J. Bowen .. ...... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

1870

1876

1882

Leonidu E. Pratt . . . . . . . . G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Died Oct. 25, 1886
!sue S. Titus . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Chu. L. Wiggin ...... . S.G.W.
Benj . H. Freeman ...... J.G.W.
James Laidley ... .... .. . . G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

John M. Browne . . . . . . . . G.M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 18J I
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Chu. L. Wiggin . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. S. Wells ......... S.G.W.
Solon W. Craigue ...... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

Clay W. Taylor . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Westan Star No. 2
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Died May I, 1897
Jonathan D. Hines . . . . . D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... S.G.W.
George Hinds . ..... ... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ...... ... ... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

515

188J

1889

1895

Jonathan D. Hines . . . . . . . G.M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. JO, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker ....... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

Morris M. Estee . . . . . . . . G.M.
California No. I
Born Nov. 2J, 18J4
Died Oct. 7, 190J
William Johnston . . . . . D.G.M.
Chu. R. Gritman ....... S.G.W.
Henry S. Onne . ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ... .. G. T.
George Johnson ..... . .... G.S.

Edward M. Preston . . . . . . G.M.
Nevada No. IJ
Born May 4, 1841
Died April 24, I 90J
Wm. T. Lucas . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Thomu Flint .......... S.G.W.
F.M. Angellotti . .. .. .. . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . . . . . . . . . G. T.
George Johnson ... ......• G.S.

1884

Jonathan D. Hines . .
G.M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. JO, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker .. ... .. J.G.W.
Moses Heller ......... ... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... G.S.

1890

Alvah R. Conklin
Inyo No. 221

1896

G.M.

Born 1835
Died Oct. 5, 1897
William Johnston . . . . . D.G.M.
Chas. R. Gritman ....... S.G.W.
Henry S. Onne ..... ... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spauldins ..... G.T.
George Johnson ......... . G.S.

William T. Lucu . . . . . . . G.M.
Guadalupe No. 2J 7
Born March 18, 1850
Died March 21, 19JI
Thomas Flint . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
F.M. Angellotti . • . ..... S.G.W.
Chas. L. Patton ...... . . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
George Johmon .... ...... G.S.

1885

1891

1897

Wiley J. Tinnin . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson . . . . . D.G.M.
Hiram N. Rucker ...... . S.G.W.
Henry H. Knapp ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spauldins ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell
........ G.S.

William Johnston . . . . . . . G.M.
Franklin No. 14J
Born June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Chu. R. Gritman ... . . . D.G.M.
Henry S. Onne .... .. .. S.G.W.
James B. Stevena ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spauldins ..... G.T.
George Johmon ........ .. G.S.

Thomas Flint . . . . . . . . . . . G.M.
TexuNo.46
Born May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 18, 19J6
F.M. Angellotti . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Chu. L. Patton ... .. . .. S.G.W.
James A. Foohay ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . . . . . . . . . G. T.
George Johnson .......... G.S.

1886

1892

1898

Edmund C. Atkinson . . . . . G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17, 18J7
Died March 20, 1911
Hiram N. Rucker . . . . . . D.G.M.
Morris M. Estee ....... S.G.W.
Alvah R. Conklin . . .... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spauldins .... . G.T.
Alex G. Abell
. ...... G.S.

Charles R. Gritman . . . . . . G.M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. JO, 18J8
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Onne . . . . . . . D.G.M.
James B. Stevena . ... ... S.G. W.
Edward M. Preston ... . . J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spauldins ... .. G. T.
George Johnson . . ....... . G.S.

Frank M. Angellcmi . . . . . • G.M.
Marin No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May ll, 1932
Chu. L. PlllDn . . . . . . . D.G.M.
James A. Foshay ....... S.G.W.
Wm. S. Wells .•....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .... ..... G.T.
George Johnson •......... G.S.

1887

189J

1899

Hiram N. Rucker . . . . . . . . G.M.
La Grange No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. IJ, 1905
Morris M. Estee . . . . . . D.G.M.
Alvah R. Conklin . ..... S.G.W.
Wm. Johnston . . . ...•.. J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spauldins .. . .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell
....... G.S.

Henry S. Onne . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Southern California No. 278
Born March 25, 18J7
Died Nov. 29, 1912
James B. Stevena . . • . . . D.G.M.
Edward M. Preston ....• S.G.W.
Wm. T. Lucu ...•. .... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ . G.T.
George Johmon ..... . .... G.S.

Charles L. Patton . . . . . . . . G.M.
California No. I
Born 1865

Died April 11, 192J
James A. Foshay . . • . . . D.G.M.
Wm. S. Wells ... . .. . .. S.G.W.
O.S. Hendenon ........ J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . . . . . . . • . G. T.
George Johnson .. .. .. .. .. G.S.

1888

1894

1900

Morris M. Estee . . . . . . . . G.M.
California No. I
Born Nov. 2J, I 8J4
Died Oct. 7, l 90J
Alvah R. Conklin . . . . . D.G.M.
William Johnston ..... . S.G.W.
Marc. D. BoNck . . .... . J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spauldins .... . G.T.
Alex G. Abell
.. .. .. . G.S.

James B. Stevena . . • . . . • . G.M.
Yount No. 12
Born March 27, 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Edward M. Preston . . . . D.G.M.
William T. Lucu ...... S.G.W.
Thomas Flint .......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . . G.S.

James A. Foshay . . . . . . • • G.M.
Southern California No. 278
Born Nov. ll, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
0 .S. Hendenon ...... . . S.G.W.
Chu. W. Nutting ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . . . . . . . . . G.T.
George Johnson .......... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ......... G.L.

516

PROCEEDINGS OF TiiE

517

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1901

1906

1911

1916

1921

1926

William S. Wells . . . . . . . • G.M.
Martinez No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23, 1919
0 .S. Hendenon . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Chu. W. Nutting ....... S.G.W.
Geo. W. Hunter ........ J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
George Johnson .......... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ......... G.L.

Edward H. Han . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perine . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Rueben H. Lloyd ....... S.G.W.
Oscar Lawler .......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . . . . . . . . . G.T.
George John10n . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ....... .. G.L.

Alonm J. Monroe . . . . . . . G.M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer . . . . . . . D.G.M.
J.D. Murphey ......... S.G.W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe . . ..... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ..•...... G.T.
John Whicher . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Francis V. Keesling . . . . . . G.M.
California No. I
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Died Sept. 25, 1963
Wm. R. Hervey . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Bn1dford Webster ...... S.G.W.
Charles A. Adams ...... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
John Whicher ... , , .. .... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......•.. G.L.

Samuel E. Burke . . . . . . . . G.M.
Sunset No. J52
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Died Feb. 14, 1961
Wm . A. Sherman ..... D.G.M.
Arthur S. Crites .. , ... , . S.G.W.
DavidJ.Reese ......... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
John Whicher ........... O.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. , .....• O.L.

George L. Joneo . . . . . . . • G.M.
Madison No. 2J
Born May II, 1873
Died June 22, 1956
Will H. FiJcher . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Gultav A. Hutaff ....... S.G.W.
C.M. Wollenberg .. . ... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
John Whicher . .. .. .. . . .. G. S.
Thomu J. Baker ....... , . G.L.

1902

1907

1912

1917

1922

1927

Orrin S. Hendenon . . . . . . G.M.
Morning Star No. 68
Born June 2, I 86J
Died June ZS, 1940
Chu. W. Nutting ...... D.G.M.
Geo. W. Hunter ........ S.G.W.
Motley H. Flint ..... .. . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... ..... G.T.
George Johnaon .. ........ G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ......... G.L.

G.M.
George M. Perine
Pacific No. I 36
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, J 933
Reuben H. Lloyd • . . . . . D.G.M.
Oscar Lawler ....•..... S.G.W.
W. Frank Pierce ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
George Johnson .......... G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ......... G.L.

Wm. P. Filmer . . . . . . . . . G.M.
King Solomon No.260
Born March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942
John D. Murphey . . . . . D.G.M.
Benj . F. Bledsoe ....... S.G.W.
Albert G. Burnett ...... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ......... G.L.

G.M.
Wm . R. Hervey
Pentalpha No. 202
Born March 26, 1870
Died Feb. I, 1953
Bradford Webster . . . . . D.G.M.
Charles A. Adams , ..... S.G.W.
Geo. F. Rodden .. , , .... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .. .... .. .. G.T.
John Whicher .. .. ....... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. .. ..... G.L.

William A. Sherman .. .. , O.M.
l'Rsidio No. J54
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crites . . . . . . . D.G.M.
David J. Reese ......... S.G.W.
Albert E. Boynton . , .... J.O.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .... ...... G.T.
John Whicher .. ....... . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . . . . . . . . . G.L.

Will H. Fischer ...... .. , G.M.
Wilshire No. 445
Born Sept. 21, 1875
Died Oct. 4, 1953
Gustav H. Hutaff .... , . D.G.M.
C.M. Wollenberg .. .. .. S.G.W.
J.S. Rou ............. J.G.W
Wm. P. Filmer .... , .•.. G.T.
John Whichcr ........... G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ......... G.L.

1903

1908

1913

1918

1923

1928

Charles W. Nutting .. , . . . G.M.
Evening Star No. 186
Born Oct. J , 1852
Died Sept 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Motley H. Flint •....... S.G.W.
Edw. H. Han .......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
George Johnson .......... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ......... G.L.

G.M.
Oscar Lawler .
East Gate No. 290
Born April 2, 1875
Died Jan. J, 1966
W. Frank Pierce . . • • . . D.G.M.
Dana R. Weller . . . .... S.G.W.
A.J. Monroe .......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ... . ..... G.L.

John D. Murphey . . . . . . . G.M.
Alta No. JJJ
Born July 7, I 86J
Died Sept. IS, 1945
Benj. F. Bledsoe . . . . . . D.G.M.
Albert G. Burnett ...... S.G.W.
F.V. Keesling ..... . ... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
John Whicher .......... . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Bradford Webster .... , . . G.M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941
Charles A. Adams . . . . . D.G.M.
Geo. F. Rodden .. ...... S.G.W.
Samuel E. BW'.ke ....... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .... . ..... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Arthur S. Crites ...... , . . O.M.
Bakersfield No. 224
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Died April 28, 1957
David J. Reese . . . . . . . . D.0 .M.
Albert E. Boynton ...... S.G.W.
George L. Jones ....... J.O.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ... . ...... O.T.
John Whicher ... . ....... O.S.
Thomu J. Baker ....... , , O.L.

Gustav A. Hutaff ... . .... G.M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. S, 1879
Died Oct 17, 1933
C.M. Wollenberg . . . . . D.G.M.
J.S. Rou ............. S.G.W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ... .. ..... G.T.
John Whicher ......•.... G.S.
Thomu J. Baker . ... . , , .. G.L.

1904
George W. Hunter ....•.. G.M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born 1854

Died Oct. 14, J92S
Motley H. Flint . . . . . . • D.G.M.
Edw. H. Hart •..••..... S.G.W.
Geo. M. Perine ........ J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
George Johlon ........... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards .••••••.. G.L.

1909

1914

1919

1924

1929

W. Fr.nk Pierce . . . . . . . . G.M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. J , 1910
Dana R. Weller . . . . . . . D.G.M.
A.J. Monroe .......... S.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ........ J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
John Whicher ... , .. . .... G.S.
Thomu 1. Baker ......... G.L.

Benj. F. Bledsoe ........ G.M.
San Bernardino No. 348
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Died Oct. JO, 1939
Albert G. Burnett . • . . . D.G.M.
F.V. Keesling ........• S.G.W.
Wm. R. Hervey ........ J.G.W.
Wm . P. Filmer .... . ..... G.T.
John Whicher . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Thomu I . Baker ........ . G.L.

Charles A. Adami ...... .. G.M.
Excelsior No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Died May I, 1962
Geo. F. Rodden . . . . . • . D.G.M.
Samuel E. Burke .... , .. S.G.W.
Wm. A. Sherman ...... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ...... , ... G.T.
John Whicher . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

David J. Reae .•.•..... , 0 .M.
San Buenaventunl No. 214
Born Aus. 22, 187 1
Died Nov. 9, 19J4
Albert E. Boynton . , ..• D.O.M.
George L. Jones .. ... .. S.G. W.
Will H. Fischer .... , ... J.O.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ....•..... G.T.
John Whicher ...... , . . . . G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ...... .. . G.L.

G.M.
C.M. Wollenberg .
Stal'T King No. J44
Born March 13, 1873
Died Oct. 22, 1962
John S. Ross • . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Robt. B. Gaylord .. .. ... S.G.W.
Frank W. Mi•ter . ...... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... 0 .T.
John Whicher . . . . . . • . . . G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ......... G.L.

190S

1910

1915

1920

1925

1930

Motley H. Flint . • . . . . • . . G.M.
Eu! Gale No. 290
Born Feb. 19, 186S
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Han . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Geo. M. Perine ........ S.G.W.
Reuben H. Lloyd ..... . . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .•....•.. G.T.
George Johnson .......... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ........• G.L.

Dana R Weller . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Southern California No. 278
Born March 24, 1874
Died Jan. 9, 1947
A.J. Monroe . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. P. Filmer ........ S.G.W.
J.D. Murphey .. ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ......... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......• , . G.L.

Albert G. Bwnctt . . . . . . . G.M.
Santa Rosa No. S7
Born April 9, 1856
Died Aug. IS, I 92J
F.V. Keesling ... , .... D.G.M.
Wm. R. Hervey ........ S.G.W.
Bradford Webster ...... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ........•. G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ........• G.L.

George F. Rodden . . . . . . . G.M.

Albert E. Boynton . . . . . . G.M.
Oroville No. I OJ
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Died Feb. 22, 1945
George L. Jones . . . . . . D.G.M.
Will H. Fischer ..... , .. S.G.W.
Gultav A. Hutaff ... .... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ......... , G.T.
John Whicher ..........• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......•.. G.L.

John S. Rou • . . .. . . . . . . G.M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21, 1879
Died Aua. JI, 1952
Robt. B. Gaylord . . . . . . D.G.M.
Frank W. Mi•ter ....... S.G.W.
James B. Gist ......... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
John Whicher •......... , G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Marin No. 191

Born Dec. 24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934
Samuel E. Burke . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. A. Sherman ...... S.G.W.
Arthur S. Crites ........ J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
John Whicher . ....... ... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . . . . . . . . . G.L.

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

19JI
Robert B. Gaylord . . . . . . . G.M.
Oa.ldllld No. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1876
Died Aug. 4, 19SJ
Frank W. Miner . . . . . . D.G.M.
James B. Gist , ... . . ... S.G.W.
Wm. A. Sitton ....... .. J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ........ . . G.T.
John Whicher ........ .•• G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ... • ..... G.L.

19J6
Rollie W. Miller . . . . . . . . G.M.
Sunset No. JS2
Born Oct. 17, l 88J
Died July 18, 1960
James T. Fruer . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Leon 0. Whitsell .... ... S.G.W.
William H. Waste .. .... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .. ... •.. .. G.T.
John Whicher .... .. . .... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ....••. ... G.L.

1941
Frank M. Smith . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Eut Gate No. 290
Born April I, 1894
Died April 7, 19Sl
Leslie E. Wood . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Claude H. Morrison ..... S.G.W.
G.C. Deforest ... ... .. . J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .. ... . . .. G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

John R. Moore .. .. .. .. .. G.M.
Meridilll No. 667
Born Sept 189J
Died March 28, l 96S
Chester H. Warlow •. , . D.G.M.
Edward H. Siems •..... S.G.W.
Ellsworth Meyer .... ... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... G.S.
Arthur M. Warren •....... G.L.

19Sl
Louis C. Drapeau . . . • . . . G.M.
Poinsettia No. 633
Born Aus. 30, 188S
Died Dec. 19, 1973
Arthur M. Warren . . . . . D.G.M.
Frlllk Harwell, Jr....... S.G.W.
Henry C. Clausen .. .... J.G.W.
Fr111cis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... G.S.
Walter H.E. VonKonsky ... G.L.

19S6
L. Harold Anderson ....•. G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1899
Died Oct. 16, 1974
Leo E. Anderson . . . . . . D. G. M.
Phil N. Myers ....... .. S.G. W.
Joe L. Shell . .... ...... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ....•... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .•....... G.S.
Eiben W. Davis ••.... .... G.L.

1932
Frank W. Miner . . . . . . . . G.M.
Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. JO l 87J
Died May 22, 1947
J1111es B. Gist . . . . • . . . D.G.M.
Wm. A. Sitton . . . ...... S.G.W.
R.V. Whiting .... .. .. .. J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer . . .•...... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomu J. Baker ......... G.L.

19J7
James T. Fraser . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Aus. 28, 1868
Died June 26, I 9SJ
Leon 0 . Whitsell . . . . . . D.G.M.
Willi1111 H. Waste ..... S.G.W.
William B. Ogden . . ... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer . . . . . . •.. G.T.
John Whicher . . . . • . •... G.S.
Lelsie E. Wood . ... • ..... G.L.

1942
Leslie E. Wood . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Provident No. 609
Born April 2, 1897
Died Jiil. 28, 1974
Claude H. Morrison . . . . D.G.M.
G.C. Deforest . . . . .. .. . S.G.W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ... . . J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

1947
Chester H. Warlow . . . . . . G.M.
Fresno No. 247
Born June 30, 1889
Died Dec. I 0, 1963
Edward H. Siems . . . . . D.G.M.
Ellsworth Meyer .•..... S.G. W.
Arthur Paulsen ... ..... J.G.W.
FrlllCis V. Keeslin1 ..... .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..... .. .. G.S.
Arthur M. Warren ........ G.L.

19S2
Arthur M. Warren .• ..... G.M.
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born Dec. 27, 1901
Died May 21, 1964
Fr111k Harwell, Jr. . . . . . D.G.M.
Henry C. Clausen ...... S.G.W.
Ed1ar V. Stewart, Jr. ...• J.G.W.
FrlllCis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •..• ...•. G.S.
Eiben W. Davis . . •....• .• G.L.

19S7
Leo E. Anderson .. .. .. .. G.M.
Hollywood No. 3SS
Born Feb. 20, 1902
Died Oct. 20, 1993
Phil N. Myen . . . . . . . D.G.M.
JoeL. Shell . .......... S.G.W.
Alfred F. BreallUOI' ..... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ..•..... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ••...•. .• G.S.
Eiben W. Davis ........ .. G.L.

1933
James B. Gist • . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aug. 8, 1868
Died April 2S, l 9S4
R.V. Whiting .... ..... D.G.M.
Earl Warren ... ........ S.G.W.
RollieW. Miller .... ... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ...• , . . • . G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ....... . . G.L.

1938
Leon 0. Whitsell . . . • . . . . G.M.
Orange Grove No. 293
Born July I0, 1876
Died Feb. 2S, 1966
William H. Waste . . . . . D.G.M.
William B. Osden ...... S.G.W.
Lloyd E. Wibon ....... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .... . : .... G.T.
John Whicher ..... . ..... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood .......... G.L.

194J
Claude H. Morrison . . . . . . G.M.
Siil Diego No. JS
Born July I 0, 1887
Died Nov. 2, I 9SJ
G.C. Deforest . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..... S.G.W.
Arthur W. Brouillet ..... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keeslins . . ... .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . ... .. . . G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

1948
Edward H. Siems . . . . . . . G.M.
Plymouth No. S60
Born Dec. 7, 1903
Died Jan. 29, 1997
Ellsworth Meyer . . . . . . D. G.M.
Arthur Paulsen .. ...... S.G. W.
Louis C. Drapeau •• •.•. J.G.W.
Frlllcis V. Keeslins ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .... . .. .. G.S.
Arthur M. Warren ........ G.L.

19S3
Frank Harwell, Jr. . . . . . . . G.M.
Beverly Hills No. S28
Born Oct. 4, 1898
Died Jan. 2S, 1966
Henry C. Clausen . . . . • D.G.M.
Edpr V. Stewart, Jr. •... S.G.W.
L. Harold Andenon •.. .. J.G.W.
Francis V. Keeslins ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ....... . . G.S.
Eiben W. Davis ...... .... G.L.

19S8
Phil N, Myers .. .. . .. .. . G.M.
McCloud No. 4JO
Born Jiil. 12, 1897
Died July 6, 19n
Joe L. Shell ..• ••.•... D.G.M.
Alfred F. Breslauer .... S.G.W.
Guy B. Mize .. .• . .. ... J.G.W.
EdwardH. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .. .... ... G.S.
Eiben W. Davis ...... .. •. G.L.

19J4
Randolph V. Whiting
G.M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. JO, 1870
Died Feb. 4, I 9S2
Earl Warren . . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
RollieW. Miller ..•. .. . S.G.W.
James T. Fruer . . . ..... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer ....... .. . G.T.
John Whicher .... . •..... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood .......... G.L.

19J9
William B. Ogden . . • • • . . G.M.
Hollywood No. JSS
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Died Sept. 12, 19S4
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . . . . D.G.M.
Frlllk M. Smith ... .. . .. S.G.W.
LeslieE. Wood ..... ... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .... .... .. G.T.
John Whicher . . ... ...... G.S.
Walter Leonard .... ...... G.L.

1944
Gilbert C. Deforest . . . . . . G.M.
Reading No. 2S4
Born Sept. 18, 1889
Died Jiil. 2S, 19S2
Lawrence C. Kelley . . . . D.G.M.
Arthur W. Brouillet .. . .. S.G.W.
John R. Moore ... .. .... J.G. W.
Fr111cis V. Keesling ...... . G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ..•..•.. ,G.M.
Libenl Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 190S
Died Oct. 7, 1984
Arthur Paulsen . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Louis C. Drapeau •..... S.G.W.
Arthur M. Wanai ...... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling .. .. ... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... G.S.
Walter H.E. VonKonsky ... G.L.

19S4
Henry C. Clausen . . • . . . . G.M.
lnsleside No. 630
Born June 30, l 90S
Died December 4, 1992
Edpr V. Stewart, Jr. . . . D.G.M.
L. Harold Anderson ..... S.G.W.
Leo E. Andenon ....... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...... ... G.S.
Eiben W. Davis .......... G.L.

19S9
Joe L. Shell . . . . . . . .. .. . G.M.
Siil Dieao No. JS
Born Feb. 18, 1892
Died May S, 1974
Alfred F. Breslauer .... D.G.M.
Guy B. Mize .......... S.G.W.
Ira W. Coburn ...••.... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems .•...... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .• ....... G.S.
Eiben W. Davis ..... .... . G.L.

19JS
Earl Warren . . . . . . . . . .. . G.M.
Sequoia No. J49
Born March 19, 1891
Died July 9, 1974
Rollie W. Miller . . . . . . D.G.M.
James T. Fraser ... ..... S.G.W.
LeonO. Whitsell ....... J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .......... G.T.
John Whicher .... ... . ... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood .. . .. .. .. G.L.

1940

Lloyd E. Wibon . . . . . . . . G.M.
lnsleside No. 6JO
Born AIJ&. 16, 189S
Died Nov. 2, 1961
Fmik M. Smith . . . • . . . D.G.M.
Leslie E. Wood ........ S.G.W.
Claude H. Morri1<>n ... .. J.G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ....• ... .. G.T.
John Whicher .... .... ... G.S.
Walter Leonard . . . .. .... . G.L.

194S
Lawra><:e C. Kelley ... . .. G.M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oct. 24, 194S
Arthur W. Bouillet . . . . D.G.M.
John R. Moore ...•. .... S.G.W.
Fr111ci1 V. Keeslin1 ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ...... • G.L.

19SO
Arthur Paulsen . . • . . . . . . G.M
Trinicy No. 27
Born May 4, 1890
Died Sept. 20, 1969
Louis C. Dropeau . . . . . D.G.M.
ArthurM. Warren ... ... S.G.W.
Frlllk Harwell. Jr. ...... J.G.W.
Frlllcis V. Keeslins . ...... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...•..... G.S.
Walter H.E. VonKonsky ... G.L.

19SS
Edpr V. Stewart, Jr. . . . . . G.M.
Loyally No. S29
Born Oct. 3, 1901
Died May 22, 1969
L. Harold Anderson . . . . D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson .... . .. S. G. W.
Phil N. Myers ..... .... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ..... .. . G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ......... G.S.
Eiben W. Davis ..•....... G.L.

1960
Alfred F. Breslauer .. . ... G.M.
Starr Kins No. 344
Born Aua. 26, 1898
Died Jiil. 27, 1971
Guy a. Mize . . . . . • . . . D.G.M.
In W. Coburn ... ..... . S.G. W.
Elmer W. Heald . . ... . . J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ..• ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1946

519

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

521

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1961
Guy B. Mize . . . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Unity No. 368
Born April 23, 1901
Died Feb. 27, 1985
Ira W. Coburn . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Elmer W. Heald .. , .... S.G.W.
Theodore Meriam ...... J.G.W.
Anhur M. Warren ........ G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

1966
Laurence E. Dayton . . . . . . G.M.
61
Live Oak No.
Born Nov. 28, 1900
Died Feb. I, 1986
John F. Porter . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Eugene S. Hopp .. , .... S.G.W.
Robert A. Crigler ...... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pfleuger . . . . . . . . . G.T.
Edward H. Siems ... . ... . G.S.
Harold N. Richards . . . . . . . G.L.

1971
G.M.
Lester S. McElwain .
Yerl>a Buena No. 403
Born Jan. I , 1910
Died Sept. 28, 1998
William H. Price . . . . . . D.G.M.
Raymond A. Ebbage .... S.G.W.
Burton Meyer, Jr ....... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ...... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglu Lemons . .... .. G.L.

1976
G.M.
Kermit A. Jacobson . .
599
Cannelita No.
Born July 10, 1911
Died October I, 1990
Donald B. McCaw . . . . . D.G.M.
Donald G. Ingalls ...... S.G.W.
Vernon L. Gordon ...... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... . G.T.
Edward H. Siems ....... . G.S.
H. Douglu Lemons . . . . . . . G.L.

1981
G.M.
Robert 0 . West • . . . . .
El Dorado No. 26
Born Aug. 10, 1926
Harry L. Maynard . . . . . D.G.M.
E. Arthur Haglund ...... S.G.W.
Roy J. Henville .... .... J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberser .. ... G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ........ G.S.
Joe Hammond .• , ........ G.L.

1986
Jack R. Levitt . . . . . . . . . • G.M.
San Diego No. 35
Born Oct. 2, 1925
Leo B. Mark . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Stanley L. Channon ..... S.G.W.
Sam M. Pavlovich .... . . J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger . . . . . G.T.
Robert A. Klinser .... .... G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulos ..... G.L.

1962
Ira W. Coburn . . . . . . . . . . G.M.
Doric No. 216
Born Jan. 4, 1904
Died Feb. 26, 1984
ElmerW. Heald ...... D.G.M.
Theodore Meriam . ..... S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith . , ..... J.G.W.
AnhurM. Warren ....... . ·G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

1967
Eugene S. Hopp . . . . . . . . G.M.
King Solomon's Seaport 260
Born April 25, 1910
Died Oct. 19, 1990
Robert A. Crigler . . . . . D.G.M.
Chester R. MacPhee .... S.G.W.
Hert>ert A. Huebner .. . .. J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards . ...... G.L.

1972
William H. Price . . . . . . . . G.M.
Evergreen No. 259
Born June 21, 1922
Raymond A. Ebbage . . . D.G.M.
Burton Meyer, Jr....... S.G.W.
John F. Roberts, Jr. ..... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee . . . . . . G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglu Lemons ....... G.L.

1977
Donald B. McCaw . . . . . . . G.M.
139
No.
tt
Park-Crocke
Born April 20, I 928
Donald G. lngallJ . . . . . D.G.M.
Vernon L. Gordon ...... S.G.W.
H. Dougw Lemons ..... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ...... G.T.
Verne W. Hendrix ... .. ... G.S.
Burton 0 . Youns . ........ G.L.

1982
Harry L. Maynard . . . . . . . G.M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Nov. 5, 1927
E. Atthur Haglund . . . . . D G.M.
Roy J. Henville . .. ..... S.G.W.
John W. Driskell .... . .. J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger . . ... G.T.
Robert A. Klinser ........ G.S.
Joe Hammond . ... .. ... .. G.L.

1987
G.M.
Leo B. Mark . . . . • .
San Jose No. Io
1922
Born May 6,
Stanley L. Channon . . . . D.G.M.
Sam M. Pavlovich ...... S.G.W.
Ronald A. Sherod ...... J.G. W.
Ralph H. Head ..•. , . ..... G.T.
Robert A. Klinger . ... . ... G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulos ..... G.L.

1963
Elmer W. Heald . . . . . . . G.M.
El Centro No. 384
Born Jan. 7, 1885
Died Nov. 26, 1975
Theodore Meriam . . . . . D.G.M.
Myron E. Smith ....... S.G.W.
Lourence E. Dayton ..... J.G.W.
Atthur M. Warren .. . .... . G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

1968
G.M.
Robert A. Crigler . . .
John M111hall No. 636
Born June 28, 1916
ChesterR. MacPhee ... D.G.M.
Herbert A. Huebner ..... S.G.W.
Lester S. McElwain .. ... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger .... . .... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

1973
Raymond A. Ebbage . . . . . G.M.
Capital City No. 499
Born March 20, 1913
Burton Meyer, Jr. . . . . . D.G.M.
John F. Roberts, Jr...... S.G.W.
Kermit A. Jacobson ... .. J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ...... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ... . .... G.S.
H. Douglu Lemons ....... G.L.

1978
Donald G. Ingalls . . . . . . . G.M.
No. 542
Hollywood
North
Born July 29, 1918
Vernon L. Gordon . . . . . D.G.M.
H. Douglu Lemons ... . . S.G.W.
Roberto. West . .. .. .. . J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... . G.T.
Verne W. Hendrix ........ G.S.
Burton 0 . Young . ........ G.L.

1983
E. Anhur Haglund . . . . . . . G.M.
Acalanes-Fellowahip No.480
Born May 9, 1928
Roy J. Henville . . . . . . . D.G.M.
John W. Driskell ....... S.G.W.
Jack R. Levitt ... . ..... J.G.W.
John Sickenberser ........ G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ........ G.S.
Joe Hammond ...•.... , .. G.L.

1988
Stanley L. Channon . . . . . . G.M.
Evergreen N~. 259
Born March 25, 1924
Sam M. Pavlovich . . . . . D.G.M.
Ronald A. Sherod . . . . •. S.G.W.
Stanley M. Cazneoux . . . . J.G.W.
Ralph H. Head .......... . G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ........ G.S.
Ulyues G. Patropulos • .... G.L.

1969

1979
Vernon L. Gordon . . . . . . . G.M.
Joppa No. 508
•
Born June 10, 1928
H. Douglu Lemona .... D.G.M.
Robert 0 . West .. ...... S.G.W.
Harry L. Maynard ...... J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger . . ... G.T.
Verne W. Hendrix ........ G.S.
Burton 0 . Youns ......... G.L.

1984
Roy J. Henville . . . . . . . . . G.M.
68S
No.
San Marino
Born Aug. II, 1913
John W. Drilkell . . . . . . D.G.M.
Jack R. Levitt ......... S.G.W.
Leo B. Mark .......... J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger ..... G.T.
Robert A. KJinser ........ G.S.
Joe Hammond .......... . G.L.

1989
Sam M. Pavlovich . . . . . . . G.M.
Lu Palmu No. 366
Born Feb. 1, 1921
Ronald A. Sherod . . . . . D.G.M.
Stanley M. Cazneaux •.. . S.G.W.
R. Stephen Doan ....... J.G.W.
Ralph H. Head .......... . G. T.
Robert A Klinger ... , .. . . G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulos .. . .. G.L.

1980
H. Douglu Lemons . . . . • . G.M.
Bixby Knolls
Neprune No. 699
Born May 29, 1925
Robert 0 . West . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Harry L. Maynard .. . ... S.G.W.
E. Arthur Haglund . ... . . J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberser ..... G.T.
Robert A Klinger ........ G.S.
Burton 0 . Youns .. .. ..... G.L.

1985
John W. DriMell . . . . . . . . G.M.
Capital City No. 499
Born Aus. IS, 1924
Jack R. Levitt . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
LeoB. Mark ......... , S.G.W
Stanley L. Channon ..... J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger ..... G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ........ G.S.
Joe Hammond .......... . G.L.

1990
Ronald A. Sherod . . . . . . . G.M.
Knolls
Bixby
Neptune No.699
Born May 24, 1926
Stanley M. cazn_,. ... D.G.M.
R. Stephen Doan ....... S.G.W.
Warren J. Blomseth ..... J.G.W.
Henry H.P. Wilkins ... , ... G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ........ G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulos ..... G.L.

Theodore Meriam . . . . . . . G.M.
Chico No. 111
Born April 18, 1910
Myron E. Smith . . . . . . D.G.M.
Laurence E. Dayton . . ... S.G.W.
John F. Porter ......... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueaer ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

G.M.
Chester R. MacPhee
Golden West No. 4S5
Born June 5, I 90S
Died Aug. 9, 1995
Herbert A. Huebner . . . . D.G.M.
Lester S. McElwain ..... S.G.W.
William H. Price .... . . . J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ...... . G.L.

1974
Burton Meyer, Jr. . . . . . . . G.M.
Golden State No. 3S8
Born Feb. 12, 1921
Died Apr. 25, 1995
John F. Roberts, Jr. . . . . D.G.M.
Kermit A. Jacobson ..... S.G.W.
Donald B. McCaw ...... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee . . . . . . G.T.
Edward H. Siems .... . ... G.S.
H. Douglu Lemons ....... G.L.

1965
Myron E. Smith . . . . . . . . G.M
Univenity No. 394
Born Dec. 2, 1906
Lourence E. Dayton . . . • D.G.M.
John F. Porter ......... S.G.W.
Eugene S. Hopp ...... . J.G.W.
Poul A. Pfueger .. ........ G.T.
Edward H. Siems ...... . . G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

1970
Herbert A. Huebner . . . . . . G.M.
Wilshire No. 445
Born March 21, 1902
Died March 25, 1974
Lester S. McElwain . . . . D.G.M.
William H. Price .. .. ... S.G.W.
Raymond A. Ebbage ... . J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee . . . . . . G.T.
Edward H. Si°'"' ........ G.S.
H. Douglu Lemons ....... G.L.

1975
John F. Roberts, Jr. . . . . . . G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born Feb. 22, 1910
Died Feb. I, 1981
Kermit A. Jacobson . . . . D.G.M.
Donald B. McCaw ...... S.G.W.
Donald G. Ingalls ...... J.G.W.
ChesterR. MacPhee . ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglu Lemons ....... G.L.

1964

522

PROCEEDINGS OF 11IE

1991
Stanley M. Cazneaux . . . . G.M.
Marin No. 191
Born Aug. 2, 1933
R. Stephen Doan . . . . . . D.G.M.
WlllTen J. Blomseth ..... S.G.W.
William F. Stovall . . .... J.G.W.
Henry H.P. Wilkins ...... . G.T.
John L. Cooper III . . . . . . . . G.S.
Ulyssea G. Patropulos ... .. G.L.

William F. Stovall . . . . . . G.M.
Long Beach No. 327
Born Dec. 26, 1932
Charles H. Alexander . . D.G.M.
Allen B. Gresham ...... S.G.W.
Anthony P. Wordlow ... J.G.W.
Henry H.P. Wilkins ..... . . G.T.
John L. Cooper III ........ G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulot ..... G.L.

1992
R. Stephen Doan . . . . . . . . G.M.
Triangle-Palms No. 512
Born October 17, 1949
Wanen J. Blomseth . . . . D.G.M.
William F. Stovall ...... S.G.W.
Charles H. Alexander .. . J.G.W.
Henry H.P. Wilkins ... ... • G.T.
John L. Cooper III ....... G.S.
Ulyssea G. Patropulot ..... G.L.

1995
Charles H. Alexander . . . . G.M.
Chiai-Leland Sunford No. I I I
Born July 27, 1927
Allen B. Gresham ..... D.G.M.
Anthony P. Wordlow ... S.G.W.
Melville H. Nahin ...... J.G.W.
Thomas C. Holm .....•... G. T.
John L. Cooper Ill ........ G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulot ..... G.L.

1993

1996
Allen B. Gresham . . . • . . G.M.
San Bernardino No. 178
Born May 10, 193 I
Anthony P. Wordlow . . D.G.M.
Melville H. Nahin ...... S.G.W.
Alvin J. Weis .••..... . J.G.W.
Thomas C. Holm ......... G.T.
John L. Cooper Ill ........ G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulos ..... G.L.

W11Ten J. Blomseth . . . . . . G.M.
Tri SqUaR No. 5 5I
Born April JO, 1929
William F. Stovall . . . . . D.G.M
Charles H. Alexander .. . S.G.W.
Allen B. Gresham ...... J.G.W.
Henry H.P. Wilkins ....... G.T.
John L. Cooper III . ....... G.S.
Ulyuos G. Patropulot ..... G.L.

1994

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1997
Anthony P. Wordlow .. , . G.M.
Tehama No. J
Born July 16, I936
Melville H. Nahin . . . . . D.G.M.
Alvin J. Weis ....... .. S.G.W.
David C. Decker ....... J.G.W:
Thomas C. Holm ........ . G.T.
John L. Cooper III ..... . . . G.S.
Ulysses G. Patropulos ..... G.L.

523

PAST MASTERS, MASTERS AND WARDENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES - DECEASED

Ldg.

No.
I
I
I
I
8

9
9
13
13
13
14
18
20
20
20
23
25
25
25
26
30
30
30
30
32
33
35
37
37
40
41
43
45
46
50
51
58
58
58
65
87
91
93
93

Deceased
Member
Date
Hannan, C.A. ....... 03/13/98
Sondecker, L.H... ... 12/17/97
Temple, 0 ..... . . . . . 10/18/97
Vandebrooke, K.A. . .. 07106197
Kilgore, W.L. ..... . . 02118/97
Houser, C.L. . ... .. . . l l/25/97
Mitchell, J.L. .... . .. 07/ll/97
Dundas, D.B .... .. .. 09102197
Elvin, E.C . . . . .. .. . . 01121198
Penrose, J.H .... . .... 05/20/98
Blair, H.J. . ... ...... 12/04/97
Royall, s.E ...... .. .. 01/20/98
Hardiman, E.P . . ..... 04/06/98
Porterfield, J.C . ...... 12122197
Wilson, M.R. . . ... . . 09/10/97
Gleim, A ......... . . 06/01/98
Davis, C.J. . ... . . . . . 01/19/98
Gravelle, H.C . .. . •... 12116/97
Stanley, C .L. .... . ... 05/01/98
Davis, C.J . ..... . . . . 01/19/98
Aslanian, L.L... ..... 08/17/97
Elliott, Jr., H.P . ...... 11/06/97
Mooney, F.J . ... . . .. . 03/24/98
Moore, R.W ..... ... . 06/24/98
Leak, E.F . ..... ..... 01/04/98
Mayo, E.R . . .. .. .. . . 05/01/98
Watson, J.P . . .. ... . . 12122197
Collier, J.R . ... . . . .. . 02/15/98
Lewis, B.M. . .. .... . 04/10/98
Thielbahr, W.M . . .... 01/23/98
Fountain, R .F ...... . . 02119/98
Meyers, L.L. .. . . .. . . 06/16/98
Hoyer, V. . ........ . 06/01/98
Larson, R.P. . . . .. . .. 06/02198
Gibbs, V ....... . .. . . 11105197
Weber, W.M .... .... 03/16/98
Graham, J.W .... .. .. 06/16/98
Smith, R........ .... 04/28/98
Zimmemtan, W.E . . . . 06/12/98
Doney, J.R . ... . . .. .. 04/03/98
Mays, A ........ .. .. 04/15/98
Renschen, E.D . . ..... 12100197
Angel, A.V . ......... 12/20/97
Bush, W.O . . .. . .... . 11/30/97

Ldg.

No.
93
93
95
98
IOI
103
llO
ll l
ll l
112
113
ll3
ll7
124
124
128
132

132
136
136
136
144
145
146
146
149
150
150
164
167
168
168
169
173
173
174
174
178
178
178
178
178
179
179

Deceased
Member
Date
Caiocca, Jr., J. . . .. . .. I 0/24/97
Taylor, R.A. .... .... 10120197
Munden, K .. . ....... 11/24/97
Wrenn, J.E . ... . . .... 10119197
Peevyhouse, W.G. . .. 01116/98
Johnston, W.F . . .. . . . 08/04/97
Hudson, D.M . .. ..... 06/11198
Conner, W.M . ....... 05/01198
Edwards, W.F. . . . . .. 02127/98
Shaw, J.A . . .. ... . .. . 02117/98
Anklam, W.A. .. ..... 09/30/97
Cherry, M . . ... ..... 09/08/97
Cassara, B. . .... . . . . 04/29/98
Castro!, J.P .... . . . ... 02112/98
Grandfield, S.S. . .... 05/24/98
Christy, J.C. . .. ..... 05/29/98
Anderson, S.W ... . . .. 01115/98
Wixom, L.M ........ 11114/97
Eng, A.D ... ... . . ... 12112197
Speier, S............ 09106197
Williams, R.E. . ..... 03/09/98
Riley, S.C. . ... ..... Ol/22/98
Miles, C.E. . ... . . ... 11129197
Balyeat, E.H. . . ..... 03/25/98
Rhoades, J.W . ... .... 11125197
Neely, T . .. ...... . .. 05/28/98
Ayers, E.H. .. ... . ... 09115197
Bartoo, Nelson, E. . . . I 0/02/97
Royall, S.E .. ... ..... 01120/98
Burtch, C.I ..... . .... 09101197
Dawson, H.C ... .. . . . 05/27/98
Dohling, T.E . ... . . .. 06/02/98
Hursh, J.E. . .. . .. ... 04/29/98
Davies, D.D. .. .. .... 07119197
Price, M.J . ..... ... .. 02/08/98
Cadenhead, R.C .. .... 02123/98
Hardiman, E.P . . ..... 04/06/98
Bailey, D.K. .... .... 09/13/97
Blake, G.M. . ....... 06/08/97
Edwards, C.C .. . . .... 12110197
Mclarty, D.J . .. ..... 08/28/97
Rich, J.F.. . . . . . .. . .. 01121197
Carlson, l.J. ....... . . 05/20/98
Dearing, J.D .. .... .. . 11109197

524
Ldg.
No.
179
183
183
183
184
188
188
188
188
188
190
191
192
195
195
196
196
198
198

199
201
201
202
202
202
202
204
207
209
210
211
214
214
215
215
215
215
217
220
220
220
220
220
225
225
231
234
241
242

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Deceased
Member
Date
Galliani, G.L. .. . ... . 03/04/98
Bandlow, A.W. ..... . 04/23/98
Lee, L.E .. .. ..... . .. 04/18/98
Zielski, R.J .... ... . . . 03/17/98
Genasci, J.C . . ... ... . 11/02/97
Dodge, F.C. . ....... 03/08/98
Geha, R.M.. .... . .. . 01/26/98
Hagen, C.E. . . .... .. 04/07/98
Lage, E.J. . . . .... ... 01/07/98
Threlfall, E.W. .... .. 08/25/97
Ronlake, H.B ..... ... 11/08/97

Boileau, F.W ....... . 05126198
Jones, E.l. . . . . . . . . . . 12/29/97
Durst, Jr., O.M.. ... . . 07/26/97
McDowell, H.J . ...... 02128/98
Andrews, J.D .. ... .. . 06/30/98
Banner, W. . . ... . . .. 12/10/97
Badar, S.F .. ... . ... . 01/03/98
Jarrett, R.C. . . . . . . . . . 12123/97
Morrison, H.D .... . .. 09127/97
Finlay, R.M ... ... ... 12/14/97
Smith, R.C . ..... . .. . 04/28/98
Fayles, G.C......... 10/31/97
Hollingsworth, G.D... 02/22198
Pablico, J.C .. ... .... 07/10/97
Whyte, R.R. . . . . . ... 01/11/98
Emlay, F.O. . ...... . . 04120/98
Grigsby, J.W.... . ... 07/01/98
Parker, E.L. ..... . . . . 06/01/98
Norton, R.L. . ... . . .. 01/20/98
Ley, M.D.. . ..... . .. 04121/98
Joe, Jr., J.W ......... 11/04/97
Macomber, W.L. .. . .. 10/15/97
Chute, W.W .. .. . . ... 03120/98
Cottrell, W.E.... .... 02/06/98
Horrisberger, R. . .... 03/30/98
Mohler, J.H. . ....... 09/28/97
Moody, J.S . .... . .... 05/09/98
Goldbeck, A.J .... .. . 03/04/98
Kolbenstetter, R.J. . .. 02/09/98
Lackey, B.L. . .. ... . . 12126/97
Shirley, C.T. .. ...... 11/06/97
Whitesell, C.F. . . ... . 03/04/98
Cherry, M....... . .. 09/08/97
Powell, C.E ......... 09/18/97
Stewart, L.A. . ... . . .. 06/12/98
Williams, S.V. . ... . . 06/06/98
Wheeler, R.S..... . .. 01/24/98
May,D.W.......... 02117/98

Ldg.
No.
244
250
250
250
254
255
255
256
256
264
269
272
272
273
274
274
275
275
279
279
281
287
287
290
290
290
290
290
290
290
291
291
291
291
291
291
291
291
291
291
291
291
291
292
292
293
293
294
294

Deceased
Date
Nelson, H.A. . . . . . . . . 10/30/97
Beck, E.L. .......... 07/17/97
Edgerton, K.L. . . .... 12127/97
Reed, W.A. . .. ... . . . 05/11/98
Mcfadden, C.A. .... . 09/29/97
Crowell, E.A. . .. . . .. 07/08/97
Mechalis, F.G.... . .. 11127/96
Fuller, R.S. . .... .... 08/05/97
Hayes, M.E. . . ... ... 04/08/98
Murrow, R.G. . . ... . . 03/15/98
Wood, J.A. .... . . . .. 09128/97
Cross, G.P . ......... 12/31/97
Rich, T.M . . . ...... . 12/30/97
Lister, F.A.. . . ... ... 03/03/98
Member

Brown, G.R. . ....... 04105198
Galbraith, C.A. ...... 10/19/97
Cashew, N.C. .... .. . 08/22/97
Dunwoody, K.S. ..... 05/16/98
Cox, B.E.. . . . .... . . 09/17/97
Sweeney, J.K..... . .. 06/06/98
Hard, G. . .... .. .. . . 04/08/98
Banta, W.J .. . . ... .. . 11/01/97
Partridge, W.W.. . ... 08120/97
DeBerry, E.B........ 01/05/98
Fairfield, L.C. ... .... 07/30/96
Jaenecke, J.C.F .... .. 10/30/97
Massey, J. .......... 06/20/98
Reed, H.E. . .. . ..... 08/22197
Schottke, L.S . .. ... . . 12/03/97
Stassforth, Jr., H.P . ... 10/31/97
Beem, A.L. . . . . . .... 12/06/97
Brown, J.R . . ........ 05104198
Fredrick, Jr., E.W .. . .. 04121/98
Hawkins, C.E . . . . . ... 03/03/98
Jones, H.E. . . . . . . . .. 06/05/97
Parrish, C.E.. . .. . . . . 01129/98
Plano, R.N . .. . ...... 07/24/97
Rudkin, W.H. . . . . ... 05/24/97
Schuetz, R.J. . .. ..... 05105198
Skillin, H.B. . . . . .. .. 02110/98
Smith, O.R. ... .. .. .. 03/03/98
Stansell, R.A . ... .... 05/03/98
Starnes, U.S..... .... 11122/97
Buffington, W.F . ..... 02/09/98
Matheny,O.E..... . . 04/18/98
Evans, R.F. . . . . .. ... 09/11/97
Sappington, W.D . ... . 01/08/98
Davis, W.G. . .. .. ... 02/03/98
Warholm, J.F . . ...... 05/08/98

Ldg.
No.
300
300
301
303
320
320
322
322
322
327
327
327
327
327
327
327
327
327
328
328
329
331
331
331
332
332
332
332
336
337
337
337
339
341
341
341
341
343
344
344
344
344
346
347
347
347
351
351
351

Deceased
Date
Beck, Jr., C.R... ..... 01/24/98
Patton, C.F.. . . .. . ... 06/12/98
Jensen, R.C.... .. ... 12/18197
Ware, B.W.. ........ 12/18/96
Frick, E.... . ...... . 09/11/97
Patzig, R.H. . . . . ..• . 09/14/97
Halm, T.C. . ........ 03/30/98
Isbell, K.F. . ... ..... 02/22198
Penn, L. . . . . . . . . . . . . 12104/97
Christian, B.L. ...... 05/30/98
Member

Crill, R.C . . ..... . ... 05130198
Forsyth, J.. ... . .. ... 02/08/98
Kerman, J.E ... . .. ... 02111/97
Lawrence, P.R.... .. . 10/09/97
Lilliehom, A.W ...... 11/14/97
Niles, K. .. ......... 04/00/98
Russell, W.. .... .... 01/31/98
Scott, W.J. . . . .. . . . . 12/31/97
Fairbrother, G.S. . . ... 04/30/98
Lewis, OJ .......... 12/31/97
Myara, A. . . .. .. . ... 05105198
Jones, L.M..... .... . 06/10/97
Snell, D.N. . . . ...... 02/02198
Whitaker, E.W....... 05/08/97
Arnold, T.O... .. . ... 09/13/97
DeVries, C. . ..... ... 03/03/98
Parker, W.P.... . . ... 08/01/97
Tillman, C.E.. .. ... . 09/07/97
Pryor, L.R. ... ...... 12129/97
Silva, R.A. .. . ... .. . 09/29/97
Smith, J.G. . .. ...... 08123/97
Spence, A.V .. . .. . .. . 04/14/98
Wells, K.R.. . .. . ... . 08/29197
Jones, R.E. . ... ..... 04/11/98
Jones, W.N... . . . .. . . 02/23/98
Martin, J.P. . .. . .. . .. 07/31/98
Wallace; G.D. ....... 08/10/97
Winslow, J.R... .. .. . 08/04/97
Gately, W.F.... . . .. . 03/10/97
Levin, R.L. . . ... .. .. 04/07/97
Lum, A.C... .. ...... 02127/97
Sheff, S. .. ......... 11/19/96
Peterson, O.E ... . . ... 11/20/97
Jones, A.L. .... . . ... O1/21/98
Metz, R.C. . .. . ... . . 07/11/98
Stanley, C.L. . ....... 05/01/98
Chandler, C.R.. ... .. 01/01/98
Paul, C.E. ... ....... 08/16/97
Waldron, R.F. .. .. ... 01/18/98

Ldg.
No.
352
352

355
355
355
355
357
366
368
368
368
368
368
368
369
369
369
369
370
370
370
376
376
376
378
378
378
380
383
388
388
388
388
388
388
390
390
390
390
390

399
399
402
402
402
404
407
417
418

Member

525
Deceased
Date

Brown, Sr., G.R. ..... 04105198
Didlake, J.B. . ...• .. . 09/09/97
Himes, G. . ......... 09/30/97
Kelly, Jr., J.E ....... . 12115/97
McArthur, w. . .. .... 06/22/97
McKimson, T.J ... ... 02114/98
Wade, R.E...... .. .. 01/31/98
Lewis, P.L .... . ..... 08/14/97
Hamill, Jr., G.M. .. ... 11/14/97
Kinnaird, K.A. .. .... 09/30/97
Muske, A.A. ........ 07/04/97
Peters, H.B. .. .....• . 02/22/98
Stubbs, F.H. . ... .... 01124/98
Voorhies, J.F... ... . . 09/19/97
Boyd, S.D...... ... . 11/01/97
Bray, A............ 02/23/98
Burnett, S... . . . . . .. . 09/09/97
Gilkey, J.A .. . .... ... 07/14/97
Loo, H.C ...... . .. . . 04/18/98
Moya, L. . . ... . .. ... 02/13/98
Taylor, J.H . . ... .. . .. 11/06/97
Owen, W.G..... ... . 11/23/97
Spangler, R.L. . . .. .. . 09/21/97
Troy, A.O........... 02/16/98
Castro, J.P ... ... . .. . 02/12198
Davidian, D.G. . ..... 11/05/97
Lindsey, BJ . . .... . .. 03/30/98
Waddington, J.K. . ... 04/09/98
Jadwin, T.A. ...... .. 01/24/98
Botn, H.R. . . ... . .. . . 07/02197
Bruch, J. . . .... . . . .. 02/22/98
Flowers, W.S........ 05/23/97
Loo, H.C... . ....... 04/18/98
Moody, G.E..... . ... 07/28/97
Robinson, L.D... .... 12102/97
Anderson, H.R... . . . . 04/18/98
Green, L.L. ... .. .. . . 01/16/98
Hansen, R.E. ..... . .. 02111/98
Pulliam, L.R. . ...... 04/09/98
Reeder, R.C . . . .. .... 02114/98
Kell, H.L. .......• . . 03/22198
Schatz, H.O. . . . . . . . . 02/13/98
Darnell, M.J . . .. ..... 10/10/97
Dent, J.D .. ..... .... 01/18/98
Presley, S.D........ . 10/30/97
Hielscher, O.C. . .. . .. 02124/98
Weber, R.S . ... ...... 07/14/97
Markus, F. .. . ... .. . . 03/19/98
Hill, K.E. . ... ... . .. 04/07/98

Ldg.
No.
418
419
424
429
429
441
441
450
450
450
451
457
466
466
469
469
479
479
480
480
480
494
494
511
511
511
511
518
518
520
524
524
528
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
529
532
532
532
542
542

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

526

Membe r

Deceased
Date

Reid, M.S .... . .. . . . . 10/27/97
Berg, T.H . .. . . . .. .. . 10/19/97
Rausin, B.H . . . .. . .. . 08/04/97
Smith, C.A. ....... .. 07/07/97
Williams, D .. . .... .. 03/27/98
Brown, P.E . . . .. . . .. . 05/16/98
Warf, D.L. ...... .. . . 01/05/98
Bayless, J.P . ... . .... 05/17/98
Bradbury, R.F...... . 09/02/97
Gunther, P.O . ...... . 08/10/97
Magill, H.M .... . . . . . 03/21/98
German, H.L. ..... . . 10/31/97
McCow n, I . .. . . .. . . Unknown
Watson, M.R....... . 02/03/98
Baldwin, F.W . ... . ... 03/29/98
Newcom er, J.C. . . .. . 12/08/97
Ellsworth, G .S ... . .. . 03/14/98
Holmes, B. . . ..... . . 02/26/98
Benas, L.B ....... ... 09/27/97
Bern, L.R. . .... . ... . 05120198
Nilson, C.A. . .. . . .. . 06/19/98
Hundley, R.K . . . .... . 07/12/97
Unland, R.J. ...... . . 08/28/97
Dennison, S.W ....... 02125198
Gamberg, W.J . . ... . . 03/17/98
McReynolds, F.M . .. . 09/09/97
Westberry, A. W . . . . . . 08/ 17/97
Aiman, V.V . ....... . 02/01/98
Gross, M.C ....... ... 12/31/97
Cherman, H.C. . . .. . . 06/11/98
Jarrett, R.C . .. ... . . . . 12/24/97
Wegmann, H.A. ..... 01120198
Fram, L.D.J....... .. 03/07/98
Cadis, A.J. . ... . . .. . 01/02/98
Carlston, L.R ... . .. . . 06/15/98
Conhaim, M.L. . . .. .. 04109198
Crockett, K.B . ....... 12/21197
Hawk, W.W ... . ..... 10/20/97
Landsberg, N ... . .. .. 11/26/97
Levine, M .E .... . .. . . 12/21197
Myerson, B. . .. . . ... 10/20/97
Nandy, J.F. . . .. . .... 11/10/97
See, G.G . . ... . . . .. . . 08/09/97
Smith, M . ... .. . . ... 01/09/98
Barnes, G.E . . .. . .. . . 10/13/97
Canant, Jr., F.C . . . .. . 04110198
Carmichael, H.E. .... 11/25/97
Morris, W .H .. . .. . .. . 04/18/98
Neuendorff, W.C . . .. . 01/25/97

Ldg.
No.
551
551

551
551
551
551
557
557
567
567
576
576
576
579
580
583
588
588
592
595
595

595
604
609
609
611
613
613
614
614
615
618
625
626
632
633
653
660
666
668
670
671
671
671
671
676
676
677
677

Membe r

Deceased
Date

Blount, J.H . ... . .. . .. 09/03/97
Lampton, L.E. . . . . . . . 11104/97
Monsen , W.H . ... . ... 10/27/97
Murlhey , C.R .. . .. . .. 03/27/98
Perryman, A.R . .. . .. . 11/29/97
Robles, J.H. . . .. . . .. 12/26/97
Ackerman, J.F. . . .... 04126198
Bradbury, R.F . ..... . 09/02/97
Miller, W.I . . .. . .. .. . 03130198
Reynolds, H.L. .. . . . . 11/05/97
Hall, H.W .. .. ...... . 01128/98
Koppel, W.T . . . ..... 03109198
McCoy, B.F ..... .. . . 01/14/98
Rae, R.S ... . . .. .. . .. 12/17/97
Dunn, I.I. . ..... . . .. 01126198
Cameron, P.R.. . .. . .. 06/22/98
Doyel, Sr., J.L. ...... 02120198
Tyler, M.B . . ..... . .. 10/27/97
Stuart, W.H . . . ... ... 01125198
Conhaim , M.L. . .. . .. 04109198
Dorshkind, H. . .. . .. . 03106198
Griemba um, S.M .... Unknown
Dunn, F.E. . . .. .. . .. 05131198
Jenkins, W.H . . . .. . . . 12/15/97
Netherton, H.E . .. . . .. 01130198
Barton, J.D... . . . .... 08/20/97
Holloway, J.F ... .. . . . 11/24/97
Irey, M.R. . . .. . .. . .. 04/17/98
Carlston, L.R... . .. .. 06116198
Frank, V.. . .... .. . .. 07/26/97
Bory, S . . . . ... ...... 03115198
Bailey, C.W.W. . .... 04/07/98
Livie, H.S. . .. ..... . 08/29/97
Parkes, R.R. . .. ..... 12/11/97
Mclees , W.S ....... . 11/01198
Rough, Sr., J.P ....... 01/20/98
Farnworth, D.C ..... . 11/02/97
Prado, D . ... ... .. . .. 08/00/97
Potter, F.C . . .. . ..... 03105198
Braggins, Jr., R.M. . .. 03129198
Mezori, R ..... . .. ... 12/13/97
Beck, R.C . . . . . . . ... 12/22/97
Fierst, I.I. . . . .. .. . .. 02/ 19/98
Hom, J.F. . . .. . . .. .. 06/27/98
McKibban, M.R . ..... 08/20/97
Elridge, A.J . ... .. ... 03/27/98
Scott, R.W .... . . . . .. 02/28/98
Christman, R.H . .... . 12/09/97
Grandfield, S.S. . . . .. 05124198

Ldg.
No.
679
682
690
691
691
693
695
696
696
701

726
726
736
747
748
753
776
780

Deceased
Date
Eddy, H.L. ....... . . 03103198
Keeling, Jr., W.A. . ... 05102198
Member

Hassell, F.R. . .. . .. . . 01/31/98
Davis, J.A. . . .. . .... 01/24/98
Markley, Jr., J.F.... . . 08/29/97
Gray, E.D..... . ... . . 03/22/98
King, F.C ... . .. . .... 01/23/98
Price, F.D. .. ... .. ... 11/26/97
Stripling, H.W .. . .. . . 07/05/97
Coburn, L.D . .. ... ... 06109198
Lively, J.D. .. . ...... 11/13/97
Pilkington, Sr., R . . . .. 01/23/98
Krueger, C.C .. . . .. .. 08/27/97
Bagnas, R.C . . .. . .. . . 06/04/98
Gotcher, H.W . .. .. . .. 01108198
Peppers, C.A. ....... 02105198
Butler, H.A. ... .... . 11/13/97
McKimson, T.J. . .... 02/14/98

Ldg.
No.
789
799
804
804
813
813
813
813
822
824
825
826
827
827
827
830
842

527

Deceased
Date
Buth, M.A. ....... .. 06120198
Member

Robinette, T.P . .... .. 04/17/98
Adams, D.G.. . . ... . . 10/29/97
Scurlock, F.W . . . . .. . 05112198
Bauers, DJ . .. .. . .... 04123196
Flinn, K.S. . ....... . 06105198
Freeman , Jr., J.T ..... 01119198
Reuter, C.A. .. .. . .. . 01/10/98
Clements, J.L. ... . . . . 02104198
Ballard, W.E . . .. .. . . 09/22/9 7
Tootle, G. . ....... . . 04124198
Dahlberg, H.E ... . . . . 01/11/97
Balthasar, L.P. . . .. . . 02121198
Brindley, V.F. .. . .. .. 11/08/98
Downie, W.W. . . ... . 08/20/97
Buth, M.A. . .... .... 06120198
Davis, I.A. . . .• . .. . . 01124198

528

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE

ALPHABE TICAL LIST OF INSPECTO RS
(Terms Expire December 31, 1999)

Name

Date
Appointed

Name
Inspectora l
District

Allen, John ......... ......... ..... 10/13/96 ......... ......... .. 482
Amos, Herschel R. ......... ........ 11115/90 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 179
Argabright, Cecil R. . .......... ...... 11123/87 ......... ......... .. 289
Annstrong , E. Dale ......... ....... 09/26/92 ......... ......... .. 299
Azcarraga, David R ......... ........ 02/15/95 ......... ......... .. 150
Balopoulos, Michael ......... ...... 10/11194 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Benedetto, Alton F. . ......... ...... 08/02/92 ......... ......... .. 322
Benko, Mickey L. ......... ......... 02/15/95 ......... ......... .. 159
Bergeron, Edmond P......... ....... 04/01/94 ......... ......... .. 486
Bourguignon, Jacques C ......... .... 11111167 ......... ......... .. 330
Bowman, Sr., Eugene H. . . . . . . . . . . . . 11109/93 ......... ......... . . 440
Bray III, William J. ......... ....... 01101/96 ......... ......... .. 324
Buck, David T ......... ......... ... 01101198 ......... ......... .. 300
Cairns, Douglas N. . ......... ....... 03/29/95 ......... ......... .. 293
Carpenter, William S......... ....... 08/30/92 ......... ......... .. 224
Carvalho, Anthony D ......... ...... 12/12/91 ......... ......... .. 490
Dailey, Merle L. ......... ......... . 04/26/94 ......... ......... .. 103
Dandridge, Vernon M . . ......... .... 01101/97 ......... ......... .. 328
Davies, Raymond E ......... ........ 02/26/96 ......... ......... .. 366
Davis, Freddie G ......... ......... . 01110/95 ......... ......... .. 367
Denney, Harold W. . ......... ...... 06/22/98 ......... ....... . ... 280
Denney, John D......... ......... .. 07/08/90 ......... ......... .. 303
Dixon, J.D ......... ......... ...... 07/12/90 ......... ......... .. 291
Dunlap, Norman W ......... ........ 10/11194 ......... ......... .. 156
Eichen, Douglas B......... ......... 01101197 ......... ......... .. 373
Errickson, John J. ......... ......... 01101194 ......... ......... . . 499
Evans, Jr., Howard L. ......... ...... 07/12/93 ......... ......... .. 249
Fechner, Michael A ......... ........ 10/17/96 ......... ......... .. 441
Fentum, Edgar W. . ......... ....... 07/11194 ......... ......... .. 165
Ferris, Bert R......... ......... .... 12/06/95 ......... ......... .. 475

Date
Appointed

529

Inspectora l
District

Ford, Royce M. . ......... ......... 05/01/97 ......... ......... .. 172
Garbutt, Lloyd J. . ......... ........ 01101/96 ......... ......... .. 155
Giesler III, Charles L. ......... ...... 01101194 ......... ......... .. 480
Greensides, Derek F ......... ....... 11/04/91 ......... ......... .. 161
Griffiths, Donald L ......... ........ 01116/90 ......... ......... .. 370
Hand, Harold M......... ......... . 01/01198 ......... ......... .. 326
Heasley, Jr., Alfred C ......... ...... 06/14/95 ......... ......... .. 151
Ingram, Howard H ......... ........ 02/13/96 ......... ......... .. 136
Ingram, Paul S......... ......... ... 01101/96 ......... ......... .. 132
Ivie, A. Bruce ......... ......... ... 12106/94 ......... ......... .. 320
Johnston, Douglas W. . ......... .... 02/10/98 ......... ......... .. 492
Kamilli, Rudolf K. . ......... ....... 02/07 /94 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
Keisler, William F......... ......... 03/21/92 ......... ......... .. 211
Kellner, Floyd S......... ......... . 03/01190 ......... ......... .. 444
Kelso, Robert C ......... ......... .. 04/03/97 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Kirkpatrick, Howard D ......... ..... 01/01/97 ......... ......... .. 213
Lane, KejVin C ......... ......... ... 05/21197 ......... ......... .. 336
Lazenby; Very! R. . ......... ....... 06/12/96 ......... ......... .. 459
Leach, Donald L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12/21187 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 16
Lewis, H. Francis ......... ......... 01127 /94 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160
Lindenau, Donald W......... ....... 04/24/96 ......... ......... .. 283
Loui, Frank ......... ......... ..... 02/08/93 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 163
Lovell, Robert A. . ......... ........ 01131197 ......... ......... .. 226
Macauley, Gary ......... ......... . 02/15/94 ......... ......... .. 247
MacBride, A. Glenn ......... ....... 01107/86 ......... ......... .. 173
Marcheschi, Eugene C. . ......... ... 04/03/97 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Marsh, Walter M......... ......... . 10/07/94 ......... ......... .. 453
Martell, Lonnie R. . ......... ....... 02/01193 ......... ......... .. 297
Mautz, Robert L. ......... ......... 01101198 ......... ......... .. 338
McCoy, Jr., Melvin L. ......... ..... 07/23/90 ......... ......... .. 305
McDaniel, Dan R......... ......... 01119/94 ......... ......... .. 170
McEnterfer, Jack B ......... ........ 12/06/94 ......... ......... .. 477

530

Name

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date
Appointed

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Inspectoral
District

McWilliams, I. Sam ................ 01/01/94 .................. .. 302
Metcalf, Edward .................. .................. ........... 240
Miley, David R. .................. . 02/01/93 .................. .. 312
Newsome, Virgil L. ................ 02/10/98 .................. .. 447
Noe, Randy L. .................. .. 06/22/89 .................. .. 285
Nolan, John C. . .................. . 05109198 .................. .. 443
Noland, Dalton A. ................. 05/18/91 .................. .. 175
Olmstead, Richard C ................ 01/01/97 .................. .. 304
Ostrom, A. Sherman ................ 01/03/90 .................. .. 362
Pangilinan, Eligio D. . .............. 01/31/97 .................. .. 495
Passarelli, Camillo L ................ 11/28/90 .................. .. 361
Phillips, Arthur W .................. 12/06/95 .................. .. 456
Potter, Steven H. . ................. 01/20/94 .................. .. 228
Radford, Sr., Michael H. . ........... 08/01/90 .................. .. 243
Reget, James R................. ... 02/10/98 .................. .. 493
Rentie, Norman L. ................. 01/01/95 .................. .. 494
Robertson III, James M ................. ................. ........ 162
Roth, Maxwell S................. .. 10/13/96 .................. .. 488
Rowan, Jr., Robert D .................. .................. ........ 177
Rurka, Charles D .................. . 09/02/92 .................. .. 242
Russell, O.D................. ..... 07/01/90 .................. .. 245
Saar, Andrew D.................. .. 01/01/97 .................. .. 314
Sakai, Calvin K. . .................. 11/05/98 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
Sloyer, Eugene G ................. . 06/02/93 .................. .. 449
Stebbins, Linton F. . ................ 04/24/96 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215
Stein, Ronald J................. ... 01/01/97 .................. .. 334
Sutherland, Richard S............... 08/14/90 .................. .. 222
Tartaglia, Theodore P............... 07/08/90 .................. .. 295
Thompson, Peter J.................. 09/17/95 .................. .. 106
Thurm, Raymond D. . .............. 02/01193 .................. .. 30 I
Tobener, Theodore N ............... 02/07/92 .................. .. 219
Toler, William E ................. .. 07/16/90 .................. .. 281

Name

Date
Appointed

531

Inspectoral
District

Tomlin, Fred R................. ... 01/31/97 .................. .. 101
Veale, Douglas S.................. . 02/01/93 .................. .. 246
Ward, James T .................. ... 0 l/3 l/97 .................. .. 210
Wasson, Dan H ................. ... 03/16/85 .................. .. 310
Weiss, Arthur H. . ................. 07/08/93 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 318
Weisser, Allen S................. .. 01/26/90 .................. .. 157
Wiley, Keith R................. ... 10/17/96 .................. .. 445
Willard, Danny M................. . 07/21/95 .................. .. 287
Wincentsen, Rodney E .............. 02/01/95 .................. .. 153
Winterton, Sr., Robert E ............. 12/21/91 .................. .. 497
Woods, David B................. .. 10/13/91 .................. .. 217
Woods, Richard B................. . 12/06/95 .................. .. 484
Zwald, John .................. .... 0110 l/96 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220

532

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
(OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES)
The following is a list of those Foreign Grand Lodges which are recognized by,
and in fraternal relations with, the Grand Lodge of California. All correspondence
should be directed to the Grand Lodge Office, 1111 California Street, San
Francisco, CA 94108-2284. The correspondencewill then be forwarded on to the
appropriate Grand Lodge.
ARGENTINA
AUSTRALIA

Santa Catarina
Sao Paulo

New South Wales
Queensland
South Australia
Tasmania
Victoria
Western Australia

BULGARIA
BURKINA FASO
CANADA

AUSTRIA
BELGIUM
BENIN
BOLIVIA
BRAZIL
Alagoas
Amazonas-Glomam
Bahia
Brasilia
Ceara
Espirito Santo
Goias
Maranhao
Mato Grosso
Mato Grosso Do Sul
Minas Gerais
Para
Paraiba
Parana
Pernambuco
Piaui
Rio De Janeiro
Rio Grande Do Norte
Rio Grande Do Sul
Rondonia
Roraima

Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Nova Scotia
Ontario (Canada, Province of Ontario)
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan

CHILE
CHINA
COLOMBIA
Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Grand Logia de Colombia
Serenisima Gran Logia Nacional
de Columbia
Gran Logia Occidental de Columbia
Grand Logia Oriental de Colombia

COSTA RICA
CUBA
CZECH REPUBLIC
DENMARK
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
ECUADOR
EL SALVADOR (CUSCALAN)
ENGLAND
FINLAND

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FRANCE
French National Grand Lodge

GABON
GERMANY
United Grand Lodges of Germany

GREECE
GUATAMALA
HONDURAS
HUNGARY
ICELAND
INDIA
IRAN (in exile)
IRELAND
ISRAEL
ITALY
JAPAN
LUXEMBOURG
MADAGASCAR
MEXICO
Baja California [Norte]
Baja California Sur
Benito Juarez
Cosmos
El Potosi
Nuevo Leon
Occidental Mexicana
Tamaulipas
Valle de Mexico
York Grand Lodge of Mexico

533

NETHERLANDS
NEWFOUNDLAND
&LABRADOR
NEW ZEALAND
NORWAY
PANAMA
PARAGUAY
PERU
PHILLIPPINES
PORTUGAL
PRINCE HALL GRAND LODGES
California and Hawaii, Inc.
Oregon
PUERTO RICO
RUSSIA
SCOTLAND
SENEGAL
SOUTH AFRICA
SPAIN
SWEDEN
SWITZERLAND
TURKEY
URUGUAY
VENEZUELA
YUGOSLAVIA

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge
No.
Location
Abell ......................... 146 ........................ Ukiah
Acacia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hayward
Acacia Grove .................. 351 ................... Westminster
Acalanes Fellowship . . . . . . . . . . . . 480 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lafayette
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fremont
Alcatraz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 244 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oakland
Alhambra ..................... 322 ...................... Granada
Alisal Sequoia San Ramon ........ 321 .................... Pleasanton
Alta Mt. Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sierra Madre
Alturas Canby Cross . . . . . . . . . . . . 248 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alturas
AM Daylight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anaheim
Amador ....................... 65 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jackson
American River . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 795 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rancho Cordova
Anacapa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710 ....................... Oxnard
Anaheim Azure ................ 207 ..................... Anaheim
Angels Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lomita
Antioch-Brentwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175 ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Antioch
Arcadia ....................... 278 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arcadia
Arcata . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 06 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arcata
Arroyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274 ................. Arroyo Grande
Artesia ....................... 377 ....................... Artesia
Atascadero .................... 493 .................... Atascadero
Athens-Silveyville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Davis
Atwater Larchmont Tila Pass ...... 614 ................... Los Angeles
Bakersfield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
Baldwin Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 660
Barstow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Bay Cities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 337
Beach Cities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Bellflower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Berkeley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363
Beverly Hills .................. 528
Bicentennial Daylight . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Big Bear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 617
Black Mountain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Blackmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442

.................... Bakersfield
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Baldwin Park
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Barstow
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richmond
............... Manhattan Beach
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bellflower
...................... Berkeley
..................... Van Nuys
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sacramento
. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . Big Bear Lake
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Blythe ........................ 473
Boron . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Brawley ...................... 402
Brotherhood ................... 370
Burbank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406
Burlingame . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400

535

Location
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Blythe
........................ Boron
...................... Brawley
.................. San Francisco
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Burbank
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Burlingame

Cahuenga-LaBrea ............... 513 .................... Hollywood
Calaveras ...................... 78 .................... San Andreas
Caledonia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 486 .................... Bakersfield
California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I ................... San Francisco
Camarillo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824 ........................ Somis
Capital City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 499 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sacramento
Carmel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 680 ....................... Carmel
Carpinteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carpinteria
Charity Jarman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Campbell
Chico-Leland Stanford ........... 111 ........................ Chico
Chino Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 427 ........................ Chino
Chowchilla . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485 .................... Chowchilla
Chula Vista .................... 626 ................... Chula Vista
Claiborne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 185 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Point Arena
Clairemont Mesa • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 799 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
Claremont . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Claremont
Claude H. Morrison ............. 747 .................... San Diego
Clay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IO I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dutch Flat
'Clear Lake Callayomi ........... 183 ..................... Clearlake
Clovis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417 ........................ Clovis
Coachella ..................... 476 ..................... Coachella
Coastside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pacifica
Columbia ..................... 388 .................. San Francisco
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colusa
Compass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pomona
Composite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Santa Monica
Concord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sacramento
Conejo Valley ................. 807 ................ Thousand Oaks
Confidence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Salinas
Consuelo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Escondido
Corinthian-Hammonton ........... 9 ..................... Marysville
Cornerstone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 659 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . La Habra
Coronado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Coronado

536

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Location

Covelo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231 ....................... Covelo
Covina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334 ........ .. ............. Covina
Crescent ....................... 45 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Crescent City
Crocker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Daly City
Crossroads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 696 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
Crow Canyon .................. 551 ... .. ............. Castro Valley
Culver City-Foshay . . . . . . . . . . . . . 467 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Culver City
Damascus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Bernardino
DeAnza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 511 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sunnyvale
Delano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Delano
Diablo Valley .................. 448 ...................... Concord
Dinuba-Orosi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294 ....................... Dinuba
Dos Palos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681 .... . ................ Dos Palos
Downey United . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220 ...................... Downey
Drytown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Plymouth
Dunsmuir-McCloud . . . . . . . . . . . . . 297 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mt. Shasta
East Belt-Tuolumne .............. 8 ...... .. ........ ... ..... Sonora
East San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
Eel River ..................... 147 ... ... ................. Fortuna
El Cajon Valley ................ 576 ...................... El Cajon
El Camino Research .......................... .............. San Jose
El Cerrito-Albany ............... 686 ................. .. .. El Cerrito
El Dorado ...................... 26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Placerville
El Portal ..... ... .............. 347 .................... Richmond
Elk Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173 ...... . ..... .. .. ..... Elk Grove
Elsinore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289 .................. Lake Elsinore
Elysian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles
Enterprise ...................... 70 ...................... Yuba City
Escalon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 591 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Escalon

Estero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Morro Bay
Eureka ........................ 16 ..................... · . · Auburn
Evening Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 186 ............... .. ... · . · · · Etna
Evergreen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Riverside
Exeter Kaweah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 424 ........................ Exeter
Fairfax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556 ............... . ...... Larkspur
Fallbrook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fallbrook
Ferndale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193 .. .. ............ .. .... Ferndale

Lodge

No.

537

Location

Fillmore-Santa Paula . . . . . . . . . . . . 291
Santa Paula
Fontana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
Fontana
Foothill . · · · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305 ..................... Monrovia
Forbestown ..................... 50 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . F orbestown
Fort Crook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fall River Mills
Fox-Coates Daylight . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Victorville
Francis Drake .................. 376 .................. San Francisco
Franklin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143 ..................... Courtland
Fraternity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399 ...................... San Jose
Fresno ........................ 247 ....................... Fresno
Friendship .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210 ...................... San Jose
Fruitvale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113 ................... San Leandro
Gardena-Ascot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 72 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gardena
Gateway ...................... 339 ......................... Brea
Gemini . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fremont
General Henry H. Arnold ........ . 791 .................... Rosamond
Georgetown .................... 25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Georgetown
Glendale ...................... 368 ...................... Glendale
Glendora ...................... 404 ..................... Glendora
Golden Gate Speranza ............ 30 ................... San Francisco
Golden Rule ... ~ ....... .. ...... 479 ...................... San Jose
Golden Trowel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273 ...................... Norwalk
Granada Hills .................. 378 .................. Granada Hills
Gravel Range ........ .. ......... 59 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Camptonville
Greenleaf Gardens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Whittier
Grizzly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 l . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Portola
Guadalupe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Santa Maria

Hanford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hanford
Harmony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 164 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sierra City
Hartley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199 ... .. ................. Lakeport
Hemet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hemet
Henry Clay ..................... 95 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sutter Creek
Hermann ...................... 127 ................... Burlingame
Hesperian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Santa Maria
Highland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Highland
Hiram ......................... 43 ...................... El Dorado
Holl~ood .................... 355 ..................... Van Nuys
Holtville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 425 ...................... Holtville

538

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

;i ..................... Location

N
1

Van Nuys
Lodge
Home · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 234 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beckwou rth
Hope. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 98 ........ ........ ....... Homitos
Hom1tods ........ ........ ....... 37 ........ ........ ........ . Yreka
Eureka
Howar · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
79
Beach
n
H~~~i~~~
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Humbold t · · ·
Huntington Beach . · · · · · · · · · · · · · 380 · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
51 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Colfax
· 1
Illinoistown ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
1
mpena
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
390
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Imperial
Indian Wells Valley ....... ·. · · · · 691 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Ridg~:~t~
Inland Empire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306 ........ ........ ........ B h
389 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·In~~pengnd::~e
International City · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
221 ........ ........ . .
Inyo · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 80 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ione
lone . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 520 ........ ........ .. . Los Angeles
.
San Clemente
lomc . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 671
Alameda
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Irvine Valley · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
215
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Island City .....
San Diego
San Diego

John D. Spreckels .... · · · · · · · · · · · 65 7
Joseph L. Shell Daylight . · · · · · · · · 837

187 ........ ........ ........ Gilroy
Keith ....... ········ ········ ··
........ ..... Kem ville
Kem River Valley .. · · · · · · · · · · · · 827 ........
Milton
s~ L~i~ Obispo
Keystone ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 161
.......
King David's .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 209 ........

................

0

Jolla
518 ........ ........ ..... . LLaM
La Jo II a .. ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
esa
a
.
.
.
.
.
407 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Francisco
La Mesa · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 17
Sebastopol
···················
La Parfaite Union · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
.
126 ........ .... " .....
South Lake Tahoe
LaFayette · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 707
Lake ~dahoe · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 760 : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ........ Lakeside
Long Beach
Lakes1 e . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 728
Lancaster
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Lakewoo d ....
437 ........ ........ .... . Esparto
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Lancaster ... ·
Landmark -Buckeye .. · · · · · · · · · · · 195 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · F
·· re~n °
Las Palmas-Ponderosa ....... · · · · 366 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·S
usanv1 e
14
9
........ ........ .. s~ Francisco
Lassen-Janesville · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
136
· · · · · · · · · · · ·······Le mon Grove
Lebanon-Pacific · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
736
El Monte
··················
Lemon Grove . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
4
1
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
o
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Lexingto n ...... · · · ·

11

Lodge

No.

539

Location

Liberal Arts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677 ........ ........ ... Los Angeles
Libertas-Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466 ........ ........ .... Bakersfield
Liberty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299 ........ ........ .... Santa Clara
Live Oak ........ ........ ....... 61 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oakland
Livingston Hills Ferry . . . . . . . . . . . 236 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Livingston
Lodi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lodi
Lompoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lompoc
Long Beach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Long Beach
Los Altos ........ ........ ..... 712 ........ ........ ..... Los Altos
Los Angeles Harbor . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332 ........ ........ ..... San Pedro
Los Angeles Silver Trowel ........ 42 ........ ........ .... Los Angeles
Los Banos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Los Banos
Los Cerritos ........ ........ ... 674 ........ ........ ... Long Beach
Los Gatos-George E. Tutt . . . . . . . . 292 ........ ........ ..... Los Gatos
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280 ........ ........ ....... Madera
Madison ........ ........ ....... 23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grass Valley
Magnolia Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Burbank
Magnolia-La Cumbre . . . . . . . . . . . . 242 ........ ........ .. Santa Barbara
Mar Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Newport Beach
Marin ........ ........ ........ 191 ........ ........ .... San Rafael
Mariposa ..... : . ........ ....... 24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mariposa
Martinez ........ ........ ....... 41 ........ ........ ....... Martinez
Maya . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Gabriel
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 179 ........ ........ .... Mendocin o
Metropolitan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352 ........ ........ ...... Downey
Meudell-Oildale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 695 ........ ...... . ..... Bakersfield
Mill Valley ........ ........ .... 356 ........ ........ .... Mill Valley
Mission ........ . , ........ ..... 169 ........ ........ .. San Francisco
Mission Bay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 771 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
Modesto ........ ........ ...... 675 ........ ........ ...... Modesto
Molino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150 ........ ........ ... Los Molinos
Moneta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gardena
Montebello . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 451 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Whittier
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Monterey
Moreno Valley ........ ........ . 804 ........ ........ . Moreno Valley
Morgan Hill ........ ........ ... 463 ........ ........ ... Morgan Hill
Morning Star ........ ........ ... 68 ........ ........ ....... Stockton
Mosaic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Livermor e
Mount Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 295 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Guemevi lle

540

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Location
No.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tracy
Moun t Oso . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 460 . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ande rson
.
.
.
.
.
Moun t Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 281
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Down ievill e
.
.
.
.
.
.
Moun tain Shade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
..... . Moun tain View
.....
Moun tain View ..... ..... ..... . 194 .....

Lodge

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Helen a
Napa Valle y ..... ..... ..... ..... 93 . . . . . .
..... ..... ..... . Folso m
Natom a ..... ..... ..... ..... ... . 64 .. . .....
..... ..... ..... : .. Vallejo
Naval ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 87 . .....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Need les
Needl es . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326 . . . . .
. ..... ..... ... Neva da City
Neva da ..... ..... ..... ..... .... 13 ..... .
..... ..... ..... Whea tland
Nicol aus ..... ..... ..... ..... .. 129 .....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
Norm al Heights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 632 . . . . .
.. . ..... ..... ..... Gridl ey
North Butte ..... ..... ..... ..... 230 .....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Escon dido
North Coun ty Dayli ght . . . . . . . . . . 843 . . . . .
.. . ..... .. North Holly wood
North Holly wood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 542 .....
..... ..... .. Fort Jones
North Star ..... ..... ..... ..... .. 91 ..... .....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oakla nd
North ern California Resea rch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
..... ..... . .... Millville
North ern Light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190 . . .....
..... ..... ..... .. Norw alk
Norw alk ..... ..... ..... ..... .. 315 .....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sacra mento
Oak Plains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789 . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oakd ale
.
.
.
.
.
Oakd ale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oakla nd
.
.
.
.
.
Oakla nd Duran t Rockr idge . . . . . . . 188
.... Twen tynine Palms
.....
Oasis of Mara ..... ..... ..... ... 735 .....
. . . . . . . . . . Ocean side
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Ocean side . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 81 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ojai
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Ojai . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 663 . . .
..... .. Newh all
.....
.....
Old West ..... ..... ..... ..... . 813 .....
..... .... Tular e
.....
.....
Olive Branc h . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269 .....
. . . . . . . Corni ng
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
..
Olive t . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205 . . . . .
... Ontar io
.....
.....
.....
Ontar io . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 I .....
Murp hys
...
.....
.....
Ophir Bear Moun tain ..... ..... ... 33 ..... .....
eim
Anah
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
......
Orang e Coun ty Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
e
Orang
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
........
Orang e Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293 . . . . .
isco
Franc
San
...
..... .....
Orien tal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144 .....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Conc ord
.
.
.
.
.
122
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Orind a . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Orlan d
Orlan d Laurel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 245 . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Orovi lle
Orovi lle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 03 . . . . .
..... ..... ..... ... Oxna rd
Oxna rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 341 .....

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Pacific Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
Pacific Rim
567
Palm Spring~ . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 693
Palmd ale . . .
769
Palo Alto-Roli~r· : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 346
Pasadena ..... ..... ..... ..... .. 272
Paso Robles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Patterson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488
Paul Rever e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 462
Penrh yn Gold Hill ..... ..... ..... 32

541

Lo

t'

ca 100

· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Pacific Grove
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Long Beach
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Palm Sprin gs
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Palmd ale
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . Palo Alto
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Pasad ena
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Paso Roble s
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Patter son
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · San Franc isco

· · · · · · · · · · · . . . . Penry
.n
Perris ..... ..... ..... ..... .... 411 · · · · · · · · ·
City
Sun
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
··········
Petalu ma-H amilto n . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180 · · · · ·
ma
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . Petalu
·
·
·
·
·
p·
urg
Pittsb
..... .. . ..... ..... .... 429 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . itts~urg
Pluma s ..... ..... ..... ..... .... 60
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Qumc y
Poinsettia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633 · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Ve~tura
Point Loma ..... ..... ..... ..... 620 · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · . San Diego
Pomo na . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246 · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Po~~m~ n a
Porter ville- Linds ay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303 · · · · ·
rv1 e
··············
·
·
·
·
·
·
Provi dent . . . .
609
Grove
Elk
.
.
..
···
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·················

11

Readi ng ..... ..... ..... ..... . . 254 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .... Redd ing
Redlands ..... .. ~ ..... ..... ... . 300
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... Redla nds
Redo ndo ....
328
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Redon do Beach
Redw ood City ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
168 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... San Carlo s
·
Redw ood Empir~. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 683 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . Garbe rville
Resed a ..... ..... ..... ..... .. . 666 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... Resed a
Rim of the World ..... ..... ..... 71 l
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... Twin Peaks
Rio Linda .... ..... ..... ..... .. 786
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· ..... Rio Linda
Rio Vista ..... ..... ..... ..... . 208
· · · · · · · · · · · · ..... .... Rio Vista
River bank ..... ..... ..... ..... . 459
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .... River bank
River side ..... ..... ..... ..... . 635
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... Riverside
Riviera . . . . . .
780 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Pacific Palisa des
Rosem ead .... : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 457 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... Rosem ead
Roseville
222 · · · · · · · · · · · ..... ..... Rosev ille
Russi an Ri~~r· : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 181
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .... Wind sor
S. W. Hacke tt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 574 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . San Diego
Sacramen to ..... ..... ..... ..... . 40
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . Sacra mento
Saddl e bac k Laguna . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
· · · · · · · · · · · · . . Lake Fores t
Sarmas ..... ..... ..... ..... ... 204 · · · · ·
·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... ... Salina s

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Location
No.
Lodge
.... .... .... .... .. Hollister
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Bernardino
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ventura
San Buenaventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Carlos
San Carlos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690 .
.... .... . . .... ... San Diego
San Diego .... .... .... .... .... . _. 35 ....
.... .... .... .... ... Card iff
San Dieguito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Dimas
San Dimas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428 .
.... .... .... .. San Fernando
San Fernando . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343 ....
.... .... .... .. San Francisco
San Francisco .... .... .... .... .. 120 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Banning
San Gorgonio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 668 .
.... .... .... .... San Jacinto
San Jacinto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 338 ....
.... .... .... .... ... Stockton
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 ....
.... .... .... .... ... San Jose
San Jose .... .... .... .... .... ... 10 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Citrus Heights
San Juan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 732 .
.... .... .... .. Castro Valley
San Leandro-Brooklyn .... .... ... 225 ....
.... .... .... ... San Marino
San Marino .... .... .... .... .... 588 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Mateo
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carnbria
San Simeon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sanger
Sanger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316 .
. . .... .... .... Santa Barbara
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Jose
Santa Clara County Daylight . . . . . . 844 .
.... .... .... .... . Santa Cruz
Santa Cruz San Lorenzo Valley .... . 38 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . King City
.
.
Santa Lucia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ramona
.
.
Santa Maria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580 .
.... .... .... .. Santa Monica
Santa Monica-Palisades . . . . . . . . . . 307 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Santa Rosa
Santa Rosa Luther Burbank .... .... 57 . .
.... .... .... .... .. Solvang
Santa Ynez Valley .... .... .... .. 701 ....
.... .... ... West Sacrarnento
Scepter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Newport Beach
Seafaring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604 .
.... .... .... .... .... Selma
Selma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277 ....
.... .... .... .... ... Eureka
Semper Virens .... .... .... .... . 552 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oakhurst
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 788 .
.... .... .... .... . Sierraville
Sierra Valley .... .... .... .... .. 184 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
Silver Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296 .
.... .... .... ... Simi Valley
Simi Valley .... .... .... .... . . . 806 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Greenville
Sincerity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mt. Shasta
Sisson-White Pine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 310 .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ceres
Smyrna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532 . . .
. . . . Stonyford

................
Snow Mountain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271 .
.... .... .... .... Buena Park
Solo mon 's Staircase .... .... .... . 357 ....

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

543

No.
Location
Lodge
Io
I
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Soquel-Pajaro . . . . . . . . .
· · · · · · · · · · · .... .... .... Soquel
Sotoyome-Curtis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123 .... .... .... .... .... Healdsburg
South Bay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 421 .... .... .... .... .... El Segundo
South Pasadena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . South Pasadena
South West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283 .... .... .... .... .. National City
Southern California . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Santa Monica
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anaheim
Southern California Research . . . . . . . . . . .
.... .... .... .... .. Modesto
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206 ....
starr K'mg · · · · . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344 .... .... .... .... .. San Francisco
.... .... .... .... .... Benicia
Sublime-Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . Fairfield
Suisun .... .... .... .... . . .... ... 55 . .
.... .... .... .. Knights Ferry
Summit .... .... .... .... .... . .. 112 ....

..... ..... ..... .... Torrance
Sunnyside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577 .....
Reseda

.......................
Sunrise · · · · · · · · · . · .. · . . . . . . . . . 840
369
.
.
.
.
.
.... .... .... .... .. Santa Mon1·ca
Sunset · . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. .... .... .... .... Cedarville
Surprise Valley .... .... ... .... .. 235 ....

.... .... .... .... .. Paradise
Table Mountain .... .... .... .... 124 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Taft
Taft-Midway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 426 .
.... .... .... .... . Tehachapi
....
Tehachapi .... .... .. . .... .... .. 313
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sacramento
Tehama · · · · · · · . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Temecula
Temecula Catalina Island . . . . . . . . . 524 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Corona
Temescal Palms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314 .
.... .... .... .... ... Sonoma
Temple .... .... .... .... .... .... 14 ....
.... ... . .... San Juan Bautista
Texas .... .... .... .... .... .... . 46 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Menlo Park
Three Great Lights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sacramento
Three Pillars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego
Three Stars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839 .
.... .... .... .. Torrance
T~"'.'°ce University .... .... .... . 394 .... ....
.... .... .... .... Weaverville
Trm1ty ·. · · . · .... .... .... .... .. 27 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Trona
Trona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 684 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Truckee
Truckee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tujunga
Tujunga .... .... .... ... .- . . . . . . 592 .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Turlock
Turlock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395 .
.... .... .... .... .. Williarns
Tuscan-Maxwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182 ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tustin
Tustin · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241 .
.... .... .... .... .. Manteca
Tyrian · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439 ....

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sacramento
Union Kit Carson .... .... .... .... 58 . .
.... .... .... .... Hawthorne
Unity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753 ....

544

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Upland-Mt. Baldy

.

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

545

Location

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419 ............. .......... Upland

MASONIC HO~ ENDOWMENT FUND
HONOR ROLL REPORT
JULY 1, 1997 to JUNE 30, 1998

.

Vacaville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134 ............. ........ Vacaville
Vallee de France ............. ... 329 . ............. .... . .. Pasadena
Valley ............. ........... 135 . ........... . .......... Linden
Van Nuys ............. ........ 450 ............. ........ Van Nuys
Vesper ............. ........... 84 ............. ......... Red Bluff
Victorville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634 ............. .. ..... Victorville
Visalia-Mineral King . . . . . . . . . . . 128 ............. .......... Visalia
Vista ............. ............ 687 ............. ............ Vista
Vitruvius ............. ........ 145 ............. ........ Petaluma
Volcano ............. .......... 56 ............. .......... Volcano

.

Warren G. Harding ............. . 579 ............. ..... . Sacramento
Wasco ............. ........... 583 ............. .......... Wasco
Washington ............. ....... 20 ........... . ........ Sacramento
Welcome ............. ........ 255 ............. ......... Lemoore
West Covina-La Puente .... ... ... 446 .......... ....... . West Covina
West Valley ............. ...... 611 : . ............. .... Canoga Park
Western Star ............. ....... 2 ............. ............ Shasta
Westwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 501 ............ ........ Westwood
Whittier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323 .............. ......... Whittier
William Rhodes Hervey .......... 767 . ............. ....... Palmdale
Willits ........... . ............ 365 ............. .......... Willits
Willow Glen ............. ...... 676 . ............. ........ San Jose
Winnedumah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287 ............. .......... Bishop
Wisdom ............. ......... 202 ............. ........ Pasadena
Woodbridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131 ... . .. ...... . ........ Woodbridge
Woodland . . ............. ....... 81 ............. ........ Woodland

.

.

Yorba Linda ............. ...... 469 ... ............. . .. Yorba Linda
Yosemite ............. ....... . . 99 . ............. .......... Merced
Yount ............. ............ 12 ... ..... .. ............. ... Napa
Yucaipa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726 ...... ............. ... Yucaipa
Yucca Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802 ............. ..... Yucca Valley

.

.

NAME

MEMBERS

UOOI
U002
U003

OCCIDENTAL-CALIFORNIA
WES'raRN STAR
TEHAMA
SUBLIME BENICIA
TUOLOMNE
CORINTHIAN
SANJOSE
YOUNT
NEVADA
TEMPLE
EUREKA
LA PAllFAml UNION
MOUNTAIN SHADE
SAN JOAQUIN
WASHINGTON
MADISON
MARIPOSA
GEORGETOWN
ELDORADO
TlllNITY
GOLDEN GATE SPERANZA
PENRHYN GOLD IULL
OPHIR-BEAR MOUNTAIN
SAN DIEGO
HOWARD
SANTA CRUZ-SAN LORENZO VALLE
SACRAMENTO
MARTINEZ
LOS ANGELES-SD..VER TROWEL
HIRAM
CRESCENT
TEXAS
FORBESTOWN

490
204
319
329
21'
240

uoo'

U008

LI009
1.IOIO
1.I012
1.I013
1.I014
1.I016
1.I017
1.I018
1.I019
1.I020
U023
l..I024
1.I02'
1.I026
1.I027
l.I030
1.I032
1.I033
1.I03'
1.I037
1.I038
1.I040
U041
U042
U043
U04'
1.I046
LIO'°
1.I0'1 ll.UNOISTOWN
~' SUISUN
l.I0,6 VOLCANO
1.I0'7 SANT A ROSA LUTIIER BURBANK
1.I0'8 UNION KIT CARSON
1.I0'9 GRAVEL REANGE
l.I060 PLUMAS
U061 LIVEOAK
LI064 NATOMA
U06' AMADOR
1.I068 MORNING STAR
U070 ENTERPRISE
U078 CALAVERAS
U079 HUMBOLDT
1.I080 IONE

..
.
.

.
.
.

IUIXL CUN I klDO I i6N EUN I iddd I 16N lbF

LODGE

264

243
326
129
311
66
31
304
3'l

m

160
74
304
1'l
277
1'3
16,
916
163
293
303
237
612
192
120
'4
99
87
247
143
488
280
49
74
603
363
87
460
286
109
181
71

• DENO'raS HONOR ROLL - SI0.70 OR MORE AVl!RAGE GIFT

FY 1996-97
,,903,,0
,36.00
,,~.00

1,8,,.00
1,179.'°
l,107.00
1,977.00
7,'43.34
4,487.00
1,200.00
3.~ . 00

0.00
17,.00
1,707.'°
3,692.00
957.00
711.'°
'8, ,00
3,640.19
1,14,.00
2.642.00
1,192.'°
1,,,,.00
11,897.00
967.00
720.00
2,191.00
1,210.00
0.00
1.323.00
,10.00
492.80
681.00
616.00
l,2',.00
l,4M.00
3,393.00
1,63,.00

m .oo
420.00
2.964.00
2,240.00
721.00
3,489.00
1,430.00
9'3.00
1,740.00
913.00

T06/30l98
,,881.44
'1UO
4,8,8.00
1,138.00
1.m.00
1,381.00
1,873.74
3.009.00
4,4'4.00
98.!l.OO
3,'68..56
W.00
40.00
2."1.'°
3,034.00
692.00
92'.00
790.00
3,363.67
64,.00
2,190.U
767.00
1,7,,.00
13,$70.84
874.00
l,,'4.00
2,727.00
1,939.00
3,012.00
1.216.00
'°1.00
39,.80
1.228.00
SIO.'°
1,101.00
1,12'.00
4,72'.00
2.032.'°
24,.00
419.00
6.6'9.00
2,474.00
271.00
4,041.00
1,48,,00
1'6.00
1.12'.00
682.00

" xva

PART

PART

GIFT

199
30

0.41
o.u
0.10
0.38
0.33
0.20
0.38
0.$7
0.68
0.4,
0.37
O.D2
0.03
0.38
0.2'
0.21
0.01
0.39
0.67
0.20
0.43
0.28
0.,1
0.,8
0.29
0.3'
0.34
0.,2
0.36
0.31
0.28
0.11
0.66
0.,3
0.23
0.$7
0.,8
0.31
0.24
0.34
0.00
0.47
0.01
o.'°
0.38
0 .04
0.28
0.3,

12.00
2,,2
U .23
3.46
"98

m
126
70
49
100
139
221
,8
116

114
87
38
I
29

20,
30
120
43
84
,3,
47
102
104
123
223

60
33
6
6'
46
,8
81
281
87
12
2'
2
172
228
109
4

"'
2'

'·"

7. 10
12.38
13.66
7.64
11.47
3.41
1.29
8.39
8.64
3.74
"78
10.68
11.06
4.27
7.91
Ml
10.64
14.82
, ,36
, ,30
9.00
8.18
4.92
6.33
4.18
7.33
12.40
6.'6
4.46
7.87
9.68
7.26
, ,00
"66
11 .04
6.82
3.11
8.78
, ,19
1.43
6.22
9.61

546

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IOIXL CbNIKIAOiitSN EUNIRIBOIION )bf

Utii WddbUNB

243

&.00

2,393.06

73

'ti.Ji
*

U084

185

668.00
4,971.00
135.00
2,975.00
1.215.00
1,160.00
2,339.00
319.00
1,675.50
209.00
452.00
2,262.30
3.537.59
1.250.00
50.00
445.00
6,323.00
979.00
1,275.00
5,024.73
785.00
325.00
855.00
730.00
2.261.00
120.00
1,548.00
857.14
2.035.00
790.00
2,470.00
410.00
l,476.00
598.00
118.00
420.00
0.00
190.00

815.00
1,801.00
135.00
2.910.67
1,530.00
945.00
1.094.00
100.00
1,196.50
l,ll8.00
355.00
1,851.00
2.684.68
1.100.00
2,097.00
485.00
11,134.00
1,146.00
1,745.00
845.00
1,060.50

47
105
12

0 .25
0 . 18
0 . 17

137

0.55

62
53

0.59

LODGE

•

•

•
•
•
•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•

U087
LI091
LI093
l..I09!I
U098
l.I099
LllOI
1.1103
1.1104
1.1106
1.1110
Lilli
Llll2
1.1113
1.1117
1.1120
1.1122
1.1123
1.1124
1.1126
1.1127
1.1128
1.1129
1.1131
1.1132
1.1134
1.1135
1.1136
1.1143
1.1144
1.1145
1.1146
1.1147
1.1149

l.1150
1.1161
1.1164
1.1167
1.1168
1.1169
1.1173
1.1174
l.1115
1.1178
1.1179
1.1180
1.1181

NAME
VESPER
NAVAL
NORTH STAR
NAPA VALLEY
HENRY CLAY
HORNITOS
YOSEMITE
CLAY
OROVlllE
LEXINGTON
ARCATA
SOQIJEL.PAJARO
CIDCO-LELAND STANFORD
SUMMIT
EDEN STANDARD
CONCORD
SAN FRANCISCO
ALAMO
SOTOYOME-CURTIS
TABLE MOUNTAIN
LAFAYE'ITE
HERMANN

VISALIA
NICOLAUS
WOODBRIDGE LODGE

SINCERITY
VACAVlllE
VALLEY
LEBANON-PACIFIC
FRANKLIN
ORIENTAL
VITRUVJUS
ABEU.
EEL RIVER
LASSEN-JANESVILI.E
MOLINO
KEYSTONE
HARMONY
ALAMEDA
REDWOOD CTTY
MISSION
El..K GROVE
DRYTOWN
ANTIOCH-BRENTWOOD
SAN BERNARDINO
MENDOCINO
PETALUMA-HAMJLTON
RUSSIAN RIVER

MEMBERS

595
71
251
80
90
315

65
366
265
182
242
466
97
175
112
850
250
160

306
132
41
287
115

246
46
219

65
488
63
158
15
191
143
132
69
39
22
2116
220
280
194
38
290
654
113
269
73

FY 1996-97

3,064.32
2,177.17
11,975.00
1.m.00
488.00
1,651.50
9,904.71
1,570.00
1,635.00
25.00

TO 6130/98

515.00
570.00
522.00
2,682.00
181.00
1,970.00
990.50
2,045.00
490.00
1,885.00
790.00
900.00
482.00
0.00
475.00
200.00
165.00
3,232.50
1.860.00
5,334.00
1,533.00

545.00
1,576.74
9.568.07
1,264.00
2,478.00
360.00

PART

I

9
99
116

106
112
34

69
36
226
44

7
52
35
29
I
32
351
13
87
4
116
16
59
42
56
31
0
24
12
98
93
157

8
18
116

269
52
75

69

PART

0 .71
0.00
0.14
0.27
0 .44
0.01
0.44
0.24
0.35
0 .39
0.32
0.27
0. 11
0.04
0. 17
0.27
0.71
0.00
0.28
1.43
0.28
0.40
0.06
0.24
0 .25
0 .37
0.56
0.29
0.22
0.00
0.35
0.03

0.55
0.37
0.42
0.56
0.04
0.47
0 .40
0.41
0.46
0 .28
0.95

AVd
GIFT

LODGE

16.39
4.41
3.03
1.90
11.60
19.13
10.50
3.47

1-54
3.27
4.22

Ui82 TUSCAN.MAXWfil
•
•

•
•

1.95
7.65

5.16
11.34
11.98
4.33
13.10

4.58
10.91
2.76
8.03
12.56
1.99
4.54
10.90
3.93
9.00
15.24
4.19
7.78
11.93
10.53
4.71
3.37
0.00
6.88
5.13
7 .50
12. 15
8.45
19.05
7.90
14.34

5.44
14.63
11.19
9.21
4.93

NAME

•

1.1183
1.1184
1.1185
1.1186
1.1187
1.1188
1.1190
1.1191
1.1192
1.1193
1.1194
1.1195
1.1196
1.1198

l.1199
Ll200
• Ll201
1.1202
• Ll203
Ll204
Ll2M
Ll206
• Ll207
Ll208

• Ll209
l.1210
• l.1211
1.1212
l.1214

• l.1215
1.1217
• l.1218
l.1220

1.1221
• 1.1222
• 1.1224
• 1.1225
1.1226
Ll230
l.1231
• 1.1234

l.1235
• 1.1236
1.1237
Ll240
• 1.1241
1.1242

CLEAR LAKE - CALLAYOMI
SIERRA VALLEY
CLAIBORNE
EVENING STAR
KEITH
OAKLAND DURANT ROCKRIDGE
NORTHERN LIGHT
MARJN
SANTA BARBARA
FERNDALE
MOUNTAIN VIEW
LANDMARK-BUCKEYE
SAN SIMEON
ANGELS GATE

HARTI.EY
TRUCKEE
ATHENS-SILVEYVILI.E
WISDOM
CONFIDENCE
SAUNAS
OLIVET
STANISLAUS
ANAHEIM AZURE
RIO VlST A
KING DAVID'S •

FRIENDSHIP
SAN BENITO
CROCKER
SAN BUENAVENTURA
ISLAND CITY
MONTEREY
MOSAJC
DOWNEY UNITED

INYO

idixt CONildiOllUN tbNiidiblibN IBP
MEMBERS

FY 1996-97

TO 6i30198

82

438.00

433.00

191
30
49
37
89

0.00
30.00
748.00
185.00
1,101.60
2,231.00
0.00
3,514.00
2,903.00
537.00
1,892.00
815.00
720.00
2,803.00
300.00
100.00
95.00
3,764.00
572.00
2.835.00
480.00
1,711.00
0.00
452.00
l,940.00
2,367.00
865.00
665.00
1.700.00
8.123.00
1,294.83
3,041.00
28.713.00
418.00
5,701.00
3,641.00
3,340.00
1,621.00
0.00
130.00
353.00
0.00

520.00
25.00
533.00
35.00
1.098.86
1.902.00
893.00
2.127.00
3,517.00
620.00
1,530.00
1.256.00
650.00
2.m.00
0.00
530.00
1.945.00
3,019.00
610.00
2,499.00
470.00
1,234.00
5.144.00
250.00
2,417.00
1,484.00
1,255.00
185.00
l,255.00
8.502.50
405.00
4.120.82
7,570.00
304.00
4,744.00
3,187.00
2,593.00
1,875.00
1,015.00
0.00
598.00
235.00

5,915.00

5,855.00

1.505.00
0.00
18,653.00
2,595.15

1.281.00
353.00
2.723.00
2.810.00

307
106
204
189
58
164
114

62
342
109
70
169
441
54
310
82
242

363
56
217
275

15
295
213
658
145

200
888
62

ROSEVILI.E

406

BAKERSFIELD

251

SAN LEANDRO BROOKLYN
SAN MATEO
NORTH BUTTE
COVELO
HOPE
SURPRISE VALLEY
UVINGSTON HILLS FERRY
GUADULUPE
COLUSA

547

200
204
163
34

52

TUSTIN

37
146
142
97
223

MAGNOLIA - LA CUMBRE

285

• DENOTBS HONOR IOU. · SIO. 70 OR MORE AVERAGE GIFT
•DENOTES HONOR IOU.-SI0.70 OR M<*E AVDAGE GIPT

PART

'*

PART

'Z4

6.29

23
I
98

0.12
0.03
2.00
0 .08
0.33
0.28
0.53
0.47
0.50

3
29
86

56
96
94
32
30
58

3,
94

0
2
158
85
55
147
27
29
3
21
92
54
44
2
I
279
13
116
303
214
16
113

116
I
0
32
10
45
49
21

69
105

0.55
0.18
0.51
0.56
0.27
0.00
0.03
0.93
0.19
1.02
0.47
0.33
0.12
0.01
0.38
0.42
0.20

0.59
0.01
0.00
0.42
0.09
0.58
0.34
0.02
0.53
0.06
0.57
0.32
0.01
0.00
0.62
0.27
0.31
0.35
0.22
0.31
0.37

xva
GIFT

rn

2.72
0.13
10.88
0.95
12.35
6.20
8.42
13.86
18.61
10.69
9.33
11.02
10.48
7.46
0.00
7.57
11.51
6.85
11.30
8.06
, ,73
5.10
14.17
4.46
11.14
5.40
16.73
0.63
5.89
12.92
2.79
20.60
1.52
4.90
11.68
12.70
12.97
9. 19
6 .23
0.00
11.50
6.35
40.10
9.02
3.64
12.21
9.86

idixt eoNllJBOilbN t6NikiBOJIUN IBP
LODGE

um XEXCIX Z
U244

• U245
• U'246
U247
U248

U250
1..1'254
U'255
U256
U'259
U'262
1.1264

1..1269
U'271
U'272
• U'273
U'274
U'27S

urn

NAME

ALCATRA

ORLAND I.AUREL

POMONA
FRESNO
ALTURAS
FORTCROOK
READING
WELCOME
LODI
EVERGREEN
LOMPOC
HESPERIAN
OLIVE BRANCH
SNOW MOUNTAIN
PASADENA CONSOLIDATED
GOLDEN TROWEL
ARROYO
OAKDALE

SELMA
• U'278 ARCADIA
• U'279 HANFORD
U'280 MADERA
U'281 MOUNT SHASTA
U'283 SOUTII WEST
U'286 PASO ROBLES
• U'287 WINNEDUMAH
U'289 ELSINORE
• U'290 SOUTII PASADENA
U'291 FILUdORE-SANTA PAULA
U'292 LOS GATOS· GEORGE E. nJTT
• U'293 ORANGE GROVE
U'2!M Cl..ARENCE L. FRASER
• U'295 MOUNT JACKSON
U'296 SILVER GATE
U'291 DUNMSMUIR-MCCLOUD
• U'299 LIBERTY
• 1.1300 REDLANDS
l.l301 ONTARIO
U302 SANTA LUCIA
U303 PORTEllVIl.LE·UNDSA Y
1.1305 FOOTIUU.
1.1306 INLAND EMPIRE
• U3<17 SANTA MONICA ·PALISADES
• U309 DEi.ANO
1.1310 SISSON· WHITE PINE
1.1312 LOS BANOS
1.1313 TEHACAPI

MEMBERS

FY 1996-91

TO 6130198

PART

!C

xoa

PART

GlFT

....

431

4.&B.00

4.003.00

i&&

OJ&

131
132
160
696
69
139
252
313

389.00
1,4115.00
1.652.00
4,234.00
25.00
1.050.00
1,983.00
l,430.00
l.020.00
l,715.00
641.00
3,412.00
900.00
!M.00
3,825.00
9,290.00
l,375.00
458.00
760.50
7,925.00
3,331.00
l ,523.00
508.00
18,459.14
1,639.25
l,29'.00
820.00
10,640.50
0.00
5.115.00
5,050.73
1.405.00
855.00
1.136.00
855.00
4,060.00
3,381.00
663.23
0.00
l,737.00
1.860.00
2,595.00
3.891.97
992.00
391.00
568.00
815.00

1,014.00
1,585.00
2,103.00
4,139.00
390.00
l,251.25
l.134.00
50.00
1,453.00
l,850.00
713.00
1,452.18
820.00
57.00
5.692.84
8,909.00
735.00
233.50
95.00
7,143.00
l,015.00
l,175.00
548.00
l,404.22
l,'66.00
1,660.00
850.00
12.020.18
2.'44.00
l,352.00
4,429.00
l,000.00
1.022.08
863.00
734.00
5.286.00
3,824.00
761.07
0.00
0.00
l.021.00
2.950.00
6.427.98
964.00
36S.OO
599.00
Sl0.00

30
54
48
76
27
77
77
I

0.23
7.74
0.41
12.01
0.30
13.14
0.11
S.9'
0.39
S.65
0.55
9.00
8.47
0.31
0.00
0.16
7.12
0.27
0.45
6.51
3.32
0.13
0.02
5.54
0.20
5.39
l.48
0.04
7.75
0.28
11.28
0.21
5.21
0.20
1.81
0.19
0.51
0.oJ
12.38
0.37
12.67
0.40
S.65
0.23
4.00
0.29
5.70
0.91
8.80
0.40
10.92
0.32
7.14
0.29
14.34
0.29
9.42
0.23
6.86
0.34
12.10
0.72
7.58
0.37
14.81
0.58
3.04
0.11
7.13
0.46
21.49
0.66
16.70
0.51
4.82
0.16
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.05
0.39
7.43
0.18
IS.68
O.S2
11.48
0.44
4.01
0.01 .
7.58
0.!M
3.92
0.01

204

438
215
262
152
23
735
790
141
129
187
577
159
208
137
422
178
152
119
838
270
343
366
132
69
284
103
246
229
158
86
310
201
397
410
84
91
79
130

• DENO'IU HONOR R0U. - SI0.10 OR MORI! AVERAGE GIFT

549

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

548

"

198
28
4
31

204
165
28
24
6
213
63
48
40
409
71
49
34
247
61
118
263
49
40
32
47
162
116
26
0
0
79
73
213
37
74
l

idi XL CUN Iidd&I lt5N CONI iliid IitiN ldf
NAME

LODGE

0314 MiESCXl PXiMS
1.1315
1.1316
• l.1317
• 1.1320
• l.1321
1.1322
• 1.1323
• 1.1325
1.1326
• l.1327
1.1328
• 1.1329
• l.1331
1.1332
1.1334
• 1.1336
1.1337
1.1338
• 1.1339
U341
U343

U344
U346
U347

NORWALK
SANGER
FALLBROOK
&ELI.FLOWER
AUSAL SEQUOIA SAN RAMON
AlJIAMBRA
WHITTIER
CONSUELO
NEEDLES
LONG BEACH
REDONDO
VAU£E DE FRANCE
PACIRC GROVE
LOS ANGELES HARBOR
COVINA
FRUITVALE

BAY CITIES
SAN JACINTO
GATEWAY
OXNARD

SAN FERNANDO
STARR KING
PALO ALTO· ROLLER
EL PORTAL
ACACIA GROVE
METROPOUTAN •
HOU.YWOOD
MIU. VALLEY
SOLOMON'S STA!RCASE
CHARITY JARMAN

1.1351
• 1.1352
• 1.1355
• 1.1356
1.1357
U362
U363 BERKELEY
1.1365 WILLITS
U366 LAS PALMAS • PONDEROSA
U368 GLENDALE
1.1369 SUNSET
• 1.1370 BROTHERHOOD
1.1372 GARDENIA • ASCOT
• 1.1376 FRANCIS DR.AKE
1.1377 ARTESIA
1.1378 GRANADA HlllS
• 1.1380 HUNTINGTON BEACH
• 1.1381 OCEANSIDE
• 1.1383 OROS!
• 1.1388 COLUMBIA
• 1.1389 INTERNATIONAL CTTY
1.1390 IMPERIAL
l.1391 EAST BELT
1.13!14 TORRANCE UNIVERSITY

MEMBERS

FY 1996-91

TO 6l30l9I

3ii

2.1&>.&i

0.00

503

4,428.36
990.00
2.870.00
l,917.00
6,872.00
4,738.52
3,730.58
S,430.83
1.055.00
10,265.54
3,136.00
690.00
4.034.25
3,826.50
l,097.00
2,123.00
4,803.00
375.00
0.00
2,140.00
1.m.00
1,1138.50
3,439.00
3,076.00
5,361.43
2.m.00
l,020.00
l,123.00
3,742.50
2,401.00
3,086.00
470.00
2.996.00
4,140.00
l.489.00
6.550.00
3.273.00
8,179.00
156.00
2.677.00
6,538.00
6,322.00
43S.00
6.273.oo
6,425.00
1.806.50
878.00
1.825.00

l,380.04
0.00
l,065.00
4,744.18
6.692.00
5.333.18
1.m.89
4.99'.51
865 .00
14.933.00
l,913.00
855.00
3,339.50
3,661.53
l,697.00
l.29'.00
3,758.00
400.00
4,735.79
1,342.50
1.013.oo
20.00
l,965.00
3,475.00
3,427.00
3.212.00
57.203.00
1,926.00
4,181.00
1.293.00
2,288.00
S69.00
l.730.00
7,164.98
l,498.00
6,325.00
3,252.00
10,487.00
1,444.50
l.817.50
11.716.00
S.S69.50
905.00
7,648.oo
7,036.00
2.284.38
608.00
1,427.00

119
188
353
570
525

w

429
96
1,203
390
61
191
454
333
196
4!14
84
29S
233
247
451
298
385
608

w

445
134
541
357
249
90
693
1.059
349
521
321
141
273
313
677
286
64

m

606
243
96
Sl7

• DENOTES HONOR ltDU. - SI0.10 OR MOR£ AVERAGB GIP'r

PART

6

!C

xva

PART

GIFT

6.&J

0.21
0.00
0
1.09
205
0.75
263
0.29
164
0.25
129
0.40
90
0.59
253
0.41
39
0.09
105
0.32
124
0.08
5
0.57
109
0.34
153
0.25
84
0.39
77
0.32
160
0.26
22
0.32
93
0.21
48
0.19
46
0.00
l
0.35
103
0.39
m
0.25
150
0.48
127
0.13
60
0.38
SI
0.27
148
0.11
41
0.56
140
0.16
14
0.22
155
0.24
257
0.27
95
1.06
m
0.38
Ill
0.80
113
0.14
39
0.3S
110
0.41
275
0.70
199
0.41
26
0.43
l3S
0.45
275
0.53
128
0.41
39
0.22
115

'°'

6.66
4.73
0.00
10.98
13 .44
11 .74
10. 16
12.32
11 .64
9.01
12.41
7.47
14.02
17.48
8.o7
8.10
11 .71
7.61
4.76
16.05
S.16
4.10
0.04
9.95
9.03
5.64
12.12
128.55
14.37
7.73
3.62
9.19
6.32
3.!M
6.77
7.16
12.14
10.13
74.38
5.29
9.00
17.31

19.47
14.14
13.88
11 .61
9.40
6.33
l .76

161 XL CON i klDO I ION CON I KIAU i lbN
LODGE

iJM TUiLUCk
• U399
U400
• U402
• U404
• U405

• U406
•

U407

• U408
• U411
U417
• U418
U419
• U421
U424
• U42'
U426
U427
• U428
U429
U436
• U437
U439
• U441
• U442
•

U444

NAME

FRATERNITY
BURLINGAME
BRAWLEY
GLENDORA
MONETA
BURBANK
LA MESA
ALTA MT. SIERRA
PERRIS
CLOVIS

ELYSIAN
UPLAND-MT. BALDY
SOIJ'llillAY
EXETER·KAWEAH
HOLTVILLE
TAFT·MIDWAY
CHINO VALLEY
SAN DIMAS
PITTSBURG
CLAREMONT
LANCASTER

3,082.49
6,981.511
1,493.00
8,128.00
2,793.00
6, 119.06
9,123.00
12'.00
8, 146.00
2,145.00
l,434.00
3,071.00
5,000.00
1,930.00
880.00
1,16'.64
490.00
2,19'.10
1,026.00
3,127.00
3,529.01
6511.00
3,138.00
4,79'.87
l,436.00
6,330.00
3,819.00
9,194.00
9,62'.00
3,519.00
900.00
600.00
3,19'.00
1,500.96
2,442.00

173
353
281
178
347
364
139

290
3,,
136
'7
236
118
145
133
119

306
180

270

WEST COVINA· LA PUENTE

U448
• U4511
• U451
U4'7
U459
U460
U462
• U463

MOUNT DIABLO
VAN NUYS
MONTEBELLO
ROSEMEAD
RIVERBANK
MOUNT OSO
PAUL REVERE
MORGAN HILL
LIBERTAS • SECURITY
CULVER CITY FOSHAY
YORBA LINDA
BLYTHE
COACHELLA
GOLDEN RULE
ACALANES FELLOWSHIP
CHOWCHILLA
CALEDONIA
PATTERSON
ATASCADERO LODGE
ORINDA
CAPITAL CITY

U466

2.113.00

197
447
108
283

CORONADO
BLACKMER
CARPINTERIA

FY 1996-97

iii

TYR1AN

• U446

• U467
U469
U473
U476
U479
• U480
U485
U486
U488
U493
• U494
U499

MEMBERS

38'
139
19'
5U

ru
404
36'
100
145
16'
104
3'6
145
182
12'
124
369

321
107
370
118
103

371
415

• DENO'IB HONOR ROLL. SI0.10 OR MORE AVERAGE GIFT

1,607.67
l,29'.00
2511.00
371.00
4,641.00
4,010.00
400.00
3,874.00
410.00
7511.00
5,199.00
10,022.00

551

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

550

TO 6/30/98

1m

AVG
PART

PART

GIFT

lbixt tONiklBOllUN CUNIRIBdiitJN
LODGE

l.d.36

91

6.31

3.33

3,277.511
4,303.00
1,535.00
8,266.34
1,974.00
6.970.00
4,168.80
2,291.00
6, 122.2'
2,200.00
2,029.00
2,832.00
4,312.00
975.00
645.00
1,435.34
585.00
2,401.511
88'.00
86'.00
3,493.00
710.00
2,998.00
5,707.00
l,734.00
3,688.00
3,194.26
10.794.00
9,360.00
3,278.00
870.00
0.00
1,088.00
1,223.00
2,152.00
1,848.44
l,ID.00
185.00
296.00
3,103.00
3,942.00
290.00
2,888.67
586.00

146
16'
52
129
66
178
171
132
239
106
70
109
108
9'
18
43
428
81
39
I
140
28
162
261
I

8U.OO

47
189

0.74
0.37
0.48
0.46
0.38
0.511
0.61
0.74
0.69
0.29
0.511
0.38
0.30
0.70
0.32
0.18
3.63
0.'6
0.29
0.01
0.46
0.16
0.60
0.68
0.01
0.69
0.08
0.64
1.42
0.44
0.45
0.00
0.32
0.27
0.00
0.2'
0.36
0.01
0.10
0.24
0.48
0.01
0.31
0.18
0.46
0.51
0.'4

16.64
9.63
14.21
29.21
11.41
19.7'
14.84
12.87
17.64
6.04
14.60
9.77
12.U
7.17
11.32
6.08
4.96
16.'6
6.6'
7.27
11.42
3.94
11.10
14.82
12.47
18.91
6.20
14.89
23.17
8.98
8.70
0.00
6.59
11.76
6.04
12.7'
6.88
1.48
2.39
8.41
12.28
2.71
7.81
4.97
7.91
12.89

• U635
U648
U651
U6'3
• U6'7

9.02

U6'9

4,781.00
3,743.00

m

42

466

m

160
45

0
52
28
36
6'

12
89
U3
I

JU
21

223

NAME

MEMBERS

FY 1996-97

TO 6/30/98

»ffi!

\C

AVO

PART

PART

GIFT

118

675.00

60.06

I

6.01

0.31

• '-"11
U513
'-"18
• '-"20
U524
• U528
• U529
'-"32
• U'42
• U"I
U,,2

DE ANZA
CAHUENGA ·LA BREA
LA JOLLA
IONIC
CATALINA ISLAND
BEVERLY HILLS
SOurnERN CALIFORNIA
SMYRNA
NORTH HOLLYWOOD
CROW CANYON
SEMPER VIRENS

313
109
162
630
87
132
1,297

FAIRFAX

208

BEACH CITIES

286
373
312
215
385
190
248
139
88
311
108
87
133
394
46
380
200
32'
221
308
399
117
301
262

4,298.00
19'.00
980.20
6,902.00
535.00
1,710.00
17,698.511
435.00
3,300.00
9,935.94
420.00
2,392.00
2,898.00
953.00
2,458.00
3,233.82
3.29'.00
1,304.00
2,338.00
1,,,3.00
869.00
3,979.17
1,12'.00
775.00
3,,.00
2,607.511
363.00
4,335.00
2,344.2'
2,964.00
1,794.00
2,196.00
4,819.27
1,814.00
4,068.00
1,300.00
4,284.00
6,312.60
3,8511.40
3,760.00
1,607.00
3,12'.90
2,0511.00
4,241.00
585.00
2,5111.00
1.33'.00
945.00

108

• U5'6
U5'1

5,059.00
210.00
471.00
7,291.00
7'5.00
1,777.00
4,1".00
600.00
3,3511.00
10,082.30
l,°'7.00
2,52'.00
2,530.00
2,085.00
3,546.00
1,684.00
1,723.73
1,079.00
3,00.00
1,580.00
'76.00
5,307.00
7'3.00
'75.00
729.32
3,086.511
278.00
6,072.00
2,437.17
2,411.00
1,698.00
3,079.08
5,109.74
1,307.00
4,099.00
4,061.51
3,647.00
6,7'4.00
4,233.91
3,200.00
l,779.00
3,281.08
185.00
3,672.7'
999.00
2,745.00
1,761.00
630.00

0.35
0.06
0.27
0.40
0.32
0.20
0.47
0.18
0.36
0.48
0.11
0.62
0.42
0.14
0.35
0.47
0.32
0.27
0.47
0.40
0.48
0.46
0.67
0.29
0.09
0.00
0.48
0.49
0.45
0.03
0.44
0.28
0.44
0.40

13.73
1.79
6.05
10.96
6.U
12.95
13.6'
2.7'
11.04
12.5.l
2.58
11.511
10.13

0301 WESTW66D

U561
U'67

• U574
U'16
U577

um
• '-"80
'-"83
• '-"88
U590
U591

um

U595
U601

• U604
• U609
U611
U613
U614
• U6U
• U617
• U618
U620

• U62'
• U626
• U632
• U633

U634

U660

EAST SAN DIEGO
PACIFIC RIM
S. W. HACXETT
EL CAJON VALLEY
SUNNYSIDE
wARREN G. HARDING
SANTA MARIA
WASCO
SAN MARINO
COMPASS
ESCALON
TUJUNGA
COMPOSITE
GRIZZLY
SEAFARING
PROVIDENT
WEST VALLEY
THREE PILLARS
ATWATER LARCHMONT
HEMET
BIGBEAR
MAGNOUA PARK
POINT LOMA
A.M. DAYUG!fr
CHULA VISTA
NORMAL HEIGIITS
POINSETilA
VICTORVILLE
RIVERSIDE
DAMASCUS
THREE GREAT UGIITS
FONTANA
JOHN D. SPRECKELS
LA HABRA
BALDWIN PARK

us
299

793
163

26'
'61
349
343
275
265
304

486
139
ill
197
140

• DENO'IB HONOR ROLL· SI0.10 OR MORE AVERAGE GIFT

6
44
2'2
28
27
611
28
108
380
18
129
121
51
109
100
12'

'2
117
'6
42
143

72
2'
12
I
22
18'
90
10
98
85
174
47
16'
44
174
317
28
141

0.,,

159

0.17
0.66
0.'7
0.08
0.41
0.40
0.40
0.32
0.33

21

o.u

116
66

0.52
0.34
0.51

Ill
106

96

72

2.,,
7.88
U.04
8.'6
6.86
9.43
11.17
9.88
12.79
10.42
8.91

2.67
6.62
7.89
11.41

11.72
9.12
8.12
7.13
12.08
U.511
13.51
4.96
16.17
11.2'
11.03
10.96
5.84
11.80
6.74
8.73
4.21
11.12
6.78
6.7'

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AVG

idixt CUNIMBOHON CUN ikiAOIION JU?
NAME

LODGE

• 06&J 6JXI
U666
U668
• l.1670
l.1671

U6n
U674
U67'
• U676
1.1677

• U679
• U680
U681
U682
•

U683
U684

U686
U687

U690
U691
U693
U~

U696
U701
U7fl7
U710
U711
• U712
• U719

•

• U721
• U726
• U7'28
U732

U73'
• U736
U747
• U743
U7'3
• U760
• U762
• U767
U769

• U771

• U77'
• U776
• U780
U786
U788
• U789

RESEDA
SAN GORGONIO
GREENLEAF GARDENS
IRVINE VALLEY
SADDLEBACK LAGUNA
LOS CERRITOS
MODESTO
WILLOW GLEN
LIBERAL ARTS
CANBY CROSS
CARMEL
DOS PALOS
BARSTOW
REDWOOD EMPIRE
TRONA
EL CERRITO • ALBANY
VISTA
SAN CARLOS
INDIAN WELLS VALLEY
PALM SPRINGS
MEUDEU • OILDALE
CROSSROADS
SANTA YNEZ VALLEY
LAKE TAHOE
ANACAPA
RIM OF THE WORLD
LOS ALTOS
ESTERO
HOME
YUCAIPA
LAKEWOOD
SAN JUAN
OASIS OF MARA
LEMON GROVE
CLAUDE H. MORRISON
HIGHL\ND
UNITY
LAKESIDE
COASTSIDE
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
PALMDALE
MISSION BAY
SAN DIEGUITO
EAST WHITI'IER WAYFARER
RIVIERA
RIO LINDA
SIERRA
OAK PLAINS

MEMBERS

FY 1996-97

TO 6/30/98

PART

PART

GIFT

96

l.&14.00

1.693.00

39

6.41

11.39

371
168
429
21'
18'
27,

3,095.00
17,19,.fll
8,105.84
2.968.30
1.11'.70
200.00

114
64
278
49
86
114

0.31
0.38
0.6,
0.23

6.60

269
239
162
37
103
'6
220
62

1:5.00
4,740.00
2,381.00
410.00
1,24,.00
2'6.68
1,380.00
827.00
1'0.00
639.00
1,711.00
2.669.00
830.00
74,.00
1,18'.00
2,140.3'
l,'81.00
69.00
1,314.00
640.00
2,497 .00
1,810.00
,,219.30
1,166.70
2,630.00
1,717.00
64,.00
3,722.30
1,922.00
1,134.00
2:102.00
2.204.90
632.00
,.,.00
83,.00
2,114.06
1,602.'7
, ,348.30
,,484.00
630.00
843.88
4,181.00

2,430.00
l.fll,.00
6,641.00
1,600.00
1,604.00
2,887.00
1,42'.00
3,986.32
1,297.00
440.00
1,31'.00
33,.00
1.380.00
733.00
118.00
427.00
1,947.61
27,.00
630.00
1,280.00
1.400.00
1,,26.00
3,103.00
132.00
2.008.00
620.00
2,308.00
1,841.00
6,n8.oo
2,162.00
2,217.00
1,787.00
230.00
3,'72.24
1,360.00
1,224..50
2,0,1.00
2.040.02
l.Ofll.00
,2,.00
1,142.14
1,89,,00
l,'33.36
,,864.00
24,139.00
49,.00
l.flll.70
4,192.34

,2
147
247
182

222
2fl7
230
1'3
113
63
20,
90
201
126
,31
1'9

202
288
118
304
191
98
276
173
89
47
196
16,
131
269
100
199
114
373

• DENO'Il!S HONOR ROU. • $10.70 OR MORE AVERA.GE GIFT

553

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2
1'9
47
18

46
34
66

27
12
30

99
II
18
'4

98
66
42

7
47
29
94
43
2'7
87
78
10,

0.46
0.41
0.01
0.67
0.29
0.49
0.4,
0.61
0.30
0.44
0.23
0.20
0.40
0.06
0.08
0.26
0.43
0.43
0.37
0.11
0.23
0.32
0.47
0.38
0.43
0.3'
0.39
0.36

o.rn
137
67

n

92
74

4,
38

3,
99

"

269
120
22
49
166

0.4,
0.3,
0.'3
0.33
0.42

0.'1
0.81
0.18
0.60
0.39
1.00
1.20
0.11
0.43
0.4,

6.40
1"48
7.44
8.67
10.30
,.30
16.68
8.01
11.89
12.77

'-98
6.27
11.82
2.27
2.90
7.89
Ul
2.93
6. 18
6.09
9.97
26.98
2.10
9.80
6.89
11.43
14.61
12.67
13.60
lo.98
6.20
1.9,
11.7'
7.12
12.49
7.43
11.66
11.31
11.17

LODGE

ldfxt CON I RiBO i ION CUN I RIAO fION Jdf

NAME

MEMBERS

• D791 dbNmtXL HENRY H. ARN&B
U793
U79'
U799

U802
U804

U806

•

•
•
•
•

U807
U808
U813
U820
U822
U824
U823
U826
U827
U830
U837
U839
U840

• U842
•

U843

U844
U84'
LR#Ol
LRI02
LRI03
LRI04

MAYA
AMERICAN RIVER
CLAIREMONT MESA
YUCCA VALLEY
MORENO VALLEY
SIMI VAUEY
CONEJO VALLEY
SCEPTER
OLDWEST
MAR VISTA
BORON
CAMARILLO
GEMINI
PALM DESERT
KERN RIVER VAUEY
BICENTENNIAL DA YUGHT
JOSEPH L. SHEU DAYUGHT
THREE STARS
SUNRISE
FOX · COATES DA YUGHT
NORTH COUNTY DA YUGHT
SANTA CLARA VAUEY DA YUGHT
BLACK MOUNTAIN
SOUTHERN CA RESEARCH LODGE
EL CAMINO RES§ARCH LODGE
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH
ORANGE COUNTY RESEARCH LODG

FY 1996-97

TO 6130198

91

1.161.36

i.213.00

129
lfll
129
122
149
116
218
123

0.00
'37.00
6,3.00
760.00
907.30
1.063.n
1,14,.00
1,227.00
4,17'.80
61'.00
223.00
1.362.30
1.12'.00
783.00
2,2,2.08
2,677.00
2,422.00
3,082.81
63.00
810.00
820.00
0.00
476.,0
630.00
0.00

119.18
72'.00
610.00
1,020.00
1,140.97
820.00
1,219.00
1,142.00
3,722.26
32'.00
1,220.00
1,06,.00
803.00
2,,00.78
3,264.30
l,7'7.30
2,821.'7
43.00
900.00
914.00
48,.00
0.00
,00.00
0.00

0.00
38.00

0.00
0.00

244
139
64
161
137
106
In
171
92
261

,3
68
79

"

42

0
0
0
0

3~.00

REPORT SUMMARY

No or lodcn iD dlil rqxirt(Research i.oci,a ,.,. incl)
Tocal Membcnbip
Previous year's comribulioas
This year's contributiom ••

Tol&l 11111Dber or cootributon
Over211 average girt per member
Over211 Pen:en111e Panioipalioo

"83
11.48
11.86
21.80
241.39
2.49
9.40
11.24

•• ln<:ludes $4,277 .74 ol Uoil<d Way coDlribuliom <rediled to Lodges.

0

DENOTI!.S HONOR ROU. - SIO.10 OR MORE AVl!RAG& GIFT

412
99,62'
1,018,613.7'
1,013,058.16
36,013
10.17
36. 1,;

PART

;1
1

26
33
47
2
26

,9
,6
136
1

24
47
31
40
92
141
63
12
34
61
19

0
133
0
0
0

\C

XVd

PART

GIFT

6.36

13.33

0.01
0.24
0.26
0.39
0.01
0.22
0.27

0.92
6.78
4.73
8.36
7.66
7.fll

0.46

9.28
1'.26
2.34
6. 17
7.'8
7.77
7.38
14.'4
19.09
19.10
10.81
0.91
13.24

0.,6
0.01
0.38
0.29
0.23
0.38
0.,3
0.82
0.68

0.0,
0.02
0.30
0.77
0.33
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

,,,9

1U7
8.'1
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

554

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

555

INDEX FOR 1998

A
Accounting
Grand Treasurer's Comments ...... ...... ...... ...... ..... 113
Acknowledgments by Grand Master ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
.. 53
Affiliation Fees Tabulated (see Fees)
Alphabetical List oflnspe ctors ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
..... 528
Alphabetical List of Lodges ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
.. 534
Amendments to By-Laws
Reported by Grand Secretary ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... 210
Anniversaries of Lodges ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
..... 76
Annual Election of Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . 41
Annual Dues
Tabulated by Amount ...... ...... ...... ...... .. . ...... .. 208
Tabulated by Lodge ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... . 438
Annual Returns
Details by Lodge ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ... 438
Membership Reported ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..... 438
Appendix
General ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..... 409
Appointive Grand Lodge Officers
1997-1998 ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...
23
1998-1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44, Back Cover
Appointments
Committees and Constitutional Boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 409
Directors for Nob Hill Masonic Management Corporation ...... . 411
Trustees for California Masonic Foundation ...... ...... ...... 410
Trustees for California Masonic Memorial Temple ...... ...... 411
Trustees for Masonic Homes of California ...... ...... ...... . 409
Appropriations
Approved ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ....
40
Reported ...... ...... ...... . ... .. .. . ...... ...... ...... ..
99
Attendance
Reported ...... ...... ...... ...... .... . ...... ...... . 374, 423

556

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

557

Charters Committee

Audits

55
· F oun dat1"on · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · I
· M asomc
· rn1a
Cahfo
·
············
California Masonic Memorial Temple . · · · · · · · ·
·············
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Plan
ment
California Masonic Retire
I I5
. ...... ...
. . . I3 I
fc I .ti .
··· ·
Grand Lodge o a 1 01:ma ·: · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. ·. ·. ·. . . . . . . . . .
I47
Masonic Home s ofCah fornia . . . . . . . . . . . .
I 77
.
.
.
.
.
........
Masonic Home s Pooled Income Fund . . . . . . . . . .
·············
Nob Hill Masonic Management, Inc. . . · · · · · · · ·
I2
Awards and Recognition Committee
4
·············
Members of .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

!:;

B
358
.
.
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Masonic Homes of Cahforn1a ..
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · iii
Biography, Anthony P. "Tony " Wordlow .. · · · · ·
Budget
104
· · · · · · · · · · · · · I 03
Administrative and Office · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · 40
Appropriations .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
··············
·
·
·
·
Approval by Grand Lodge · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · 105I
·
·
California Freemason ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
I 04
· · · · · · · · · · · · · 10
Estimated Income ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·.
·
··
General Expense .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
2IO
By-Laws
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
··
Amendments Submitted .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

Bequests

c
I 05
California Freemason
97
·.
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
Budget ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·
··
··
·····
·····
Per Capita ..... . ····· ····· ····· ····· ·····
I
California Masonic Foundation
55
..... ..... ... 4IO
Audit ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... .....
· · · · · · · · · · · · · 36I
Board of Trustees .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·············
·
Report of Trustees ... · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
I
California Masonic Memorial Temple
67I
4I
....
.....
.....
Audit ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... .....
· · · · · · · · · · · · · 364
Board of Trustees .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
viii
··········
Report of Trustees · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·
·
·
·
················
Certification ..... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Io
Place
ng
Changes of Meeti
2
·
·
···········
Report of the Grand Secretary · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · ·

..... ..... 4 I2
Members of ..... .. . ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... 3 73
.....
Report of ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
. 438
.....
.....
.....
Charters Issued (Years) ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
ittee
Comm
Child ID Program
..... ..... ... 4 I2
Members of ..... ..... ..... ..... ·..... .....
nts
intme
Committee Appo
..... ..... . 409
For I 998- I 999 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
)
ittees
Committee Reports (see Reports of Comm
ization Events ..... ... 85
Concordant, Appendant and Masonic Related Organ
s
Concordant and Appendant Bodie
. . . . . . . . . . . . II
In Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidation of Lodges
..... ..... ... 457
List of ..... .... . ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... .... 2 I 2
.....
.....
.....
Report of the Grand Secretary .....
Constituent Lodges Listed
..... ..... . 534
Alphabetically ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ..... 438
.....
.....
Statistical Table ..... ..... ..... .....
. . . . . . . . . . 409
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Constitutional Boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contributions
..... ..... 358
Masonic Home s Endo wmen t Fund ..... ..... .....
. . . . . . . . . . . 7I
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Cornerstone Ceremonies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Covina Home
..... ..... . 349
Report of the Administrator ..... ..... ..... .....
. . . . . . . . . . . 3 I7
.
.
.
Report of Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
..... ..... 353
Residents Listed ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... .... 409
Trustees of ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
ittee
Comm
Credentials
..... ..... ... 4 I 3
Members of ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ..... 374
Report of ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....

D
..... ..... ..... .... 523
Deaths ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
r
Maste
Grand
by
ions
Decis
Master of Pasadena
Decis ion No. I - Continuing the Suspension of the
272
No.
Lodge
.. 257
Legislation ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
257
..
Action by Grand Lodge ..... ..... ..... ..... .....

558

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decision No. 2 - Allowing Optional Long Fonn for First and Second
Degree Proficiencies
Legislation ......... ......... ......... ......... . 257
Action by Grand Lodge ......... ......... .. ..... .. 258
Decision No. 3 - Allowing the Wearing of Article of Personal Religious
Significance in Tiled Lodge
Legislation ......... ......... ......... ......... . 259
Action by Grand Lodge ......... ......... ......... 261
Decoto Home (see Union City)
Dedication Ceremonies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Degrees Conferred
Tabulated by Lodges ......... ......... ......... ......... 438
Totals Reported ......... ......... ......... ......... .... 438
Degree Fees
By Dollar Amounts ......... ......... ......... ......... . 206
By Lodge ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... 438
Deputy Grand Master Remarks
Grand Lodge Budget ......... ......... ......... ......... . 97
Devotional Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Diamond Jubilee Awards ......... ......... ......... ......... . 69, 227
Dispensations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Distinguished Guests
Addressed Grand Lodge ......... ......... ........ . .... 13, 32
Attendance Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11, 31
Dues
Amendments to By-Laws ......... ......... ......... ..... 210
Tabulation by Amounts ......... ......... ......... ....... 208
Tabulation by Lodges ......... ......... ......... ........ 438

559

Eulogy
McElwain, Lester S. . ......... ......... ......... ......... 27
Executive Committee
Meetings ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... . 74
Members of ......... ......... ......... ......... ....... 409
Exhibits and Reports
Grand Secretary ......... ......... ......... ......... .... 205
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ......... ......... ......... 457

F
Fees for Affiliation

Amendments to By-Laws .. ......... ......... ......... ... 21 o
Tabulated by Lodges ......... ......... ......... ......... 438
Fees for Degrees
Amendments to By-Laws ......... ......... ......... ..... 21 o
Tabulation by Amounts ......... ......... ......... ....... 206
Tabulation by Lodges ......... ......... ......... ........ 438
Fifty Year Buttons (see Golden Veterans' Awards)
Finance Committee
Members of ......... ......... ......... ......... ....... 413
Report of ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... 375
Foreign Grand Lodges
List ofRt!cognized Jurisdictions ......... ......... ......... 532
Fonnal Opening ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... ... 23
Foundation (see California Masonic Foundation)
Friend-to-Friend Committee
Members of ......... ......... ......... ......... ....... 413

G

E
Elected Officers
At 1998 Communication ......... ......... ......... ....... 23
For 1998-1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44, Back Cover
Grand Lodge, Since Organization April J8, A.L. 5850 ... . ...... 513
Election of Grand Lodge Officers ......... ......... ......... ....... 4 I
Endowment Board
Proclamation of Grand Master ......... ......... ......... ... 93
Masonic Homes Trustees' Comments ......... ......... ..... 317
Members of ......... ......... ......... ......... ....... 409
Report of ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... 358

Gavels Used During Communication
Monday Morning Session ......... ......... ......... ...... 23
Monday Afternoon Session ......... ......... ......... ... .. 31
Tuesday Morning Session ......... ......... ......... ...... 36
Tuesday Afternoon Session ......... ......... ......... ..... 40
Appendix
General
Alphabetical List of Lodges ......... ......... ......... .... 534
Committees and Boards of Grand Lodge ......... ..... .. .. .. 409
Elected Officers of Grand Lodge Since Organization ......... .. 513
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ......... ......... .. 457
Foreign Grand Lodges Recognized by California ......... ..... 532

560

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

List of Inspectors ....... ....... ....... ....... .. · .. · · · · · · 528
Masonic Homes Endowment Honor Roll ....... ....... · · · · · · 545
Past Masters, Masters and Wardens - Deceased ....... ..... ·. · 523
Registered Attendants ....... ..... . ....... ....... .. · · · · · · 423
Statistical Table of Constituent Lodges ....... ....... .. · . · · · · 438
General Condition of Masonry
53
Grand Master's Comments ....... ....... ....... . ·. · · · · · · · ·
Golden Veterans' Awards
Fifty Year Button Recipients .. . . ....... ....... ....... .. 68, 214
Grand Chaplain's Message
Sunday, October 11, 1998 ....... ....... ....... ....... . · .. 235
Monday, October 12, 1998 ....... ....... ....... .... · .. ·. · 241
Grand Lecturer
23 1
Report of ....... ....... ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
104
Grand Lodge
Administrative and Office Expenses ....... ....... .... · · · · · ·
. 103
'
....... ....... ....... ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Appropn.at ions
Audit ....... ....... ... . ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 115
Officers 1997-1998 ....... ....... ....... ....... ... · · · · · · · 23
Officers 1998-1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44, Back Cover
Grand Lodge Committees
List of ....... ....... ....... ....... .. · .. ······· ······· · 409
Reports of (see Reports of Committees)
71
Grand Lodge Openings ....... ....... ....... ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
12
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·.
·
......
.......
nication
Commu
at
nted
Grand Lodges Represe
tee
Commit
s
Activitie
Week
Grand Lodge
Members of ....... ....... ....... .. .... . · . · · . · · · · · · · · · · 413
Grand Master (see Wordlow, Anthony P.)
Grand Master's Achievement Award Committee
Members of ....... ....... ....... ....... ·. · ·. · · · · · · · · · · 414
15
Grand Master's Youth Services Award Recipient . .. ....... .... .. · · · · · ·
Grand Master's
68
Calendar ....... ....... ....... ....... ... ······· ······· ··
257
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
..
·
Decisions ....... ....... ....... ......
Message ....... ....... ....... ...... · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 53
91
.
....... ....... ....... ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Proclamations
Recommendation ... ....... ....... ....... ... ... · .. · · · · · · 261
Grand Oration ....... ....... ....... ... · ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 247
Grand Secretary
203
Report of ....... ....... ....... ... ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

561

Grand Treasurer
Report of ....... ....... ....... .... .. ....... ....... .... 113

H
90
Hiram Awards Presented by Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Homes)
Masonic
(see
Homes
Homes Statistics - Residents Listed
Covina ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ..... 353
Union City ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .. 339
Honor Roll (Endowment Fund) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545

I
Inspectors
Grand Lecturer's Comments ....... ....... ... . ....... ..... 231
List of ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ...... 528
44
Installation of Grand Lodge Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
75
..
.......
Installations ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
tee
Commit
e
Insuranc
Members of ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... . 414
Investment Committee
Members of ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... . 414

J
Jurisprudence Committee
Members of ..... ... ....... ....... ...... ....... ....... . 414
Report of ....... ....... ....... ...... . ....... . .. ....... 376

L
Legislation Proposed (see Resolutions)
Life Membership
Tabulated by Lodge ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .. 438
List of Inspectors ....... ...... .... ....... ....... ....... ....... . 528
Lodges
Alphabetical List of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 534
Anniversaries of ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ..... 438
Extinct and Consolidated ....... ....... ....... ....... ..... 457
Numerical List of ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .... 438
Lodge Services Coordinating Committee
Members of ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... . 415

562

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

M
Mason of the Year ..... ..... ..... .. · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 18
Masonic Education Committee
Members of ..... ..... ..... .... ·. · · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · 415
Masonic History Committee
416
Members of ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · 377
Report of ..... ..... ... .. ..... . ·. · · · · · · · · · ·
············
Masonic Homes
131
Audit . ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... .....
..... ..... 358
Contributions and Bequests · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·············
List of Trustees . ... ..... ..... .. · . · · · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · 409
Report of Endowment Board ..... ..... ..... ...
. tor, covma
. ..... ..... ..... ··.· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· · · 358
Report of Admi.nistra
· · 349
· tor, Umon
· C"ty
Report of Admi·nistra
1 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 333
Report of Trustees ..... ..... ..... .. · . · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · 31 7
Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund
Audit ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... .....
131
..... . . . . .. 358
Bequests .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Comments by Masonic Homes' Trustees ..... ... · · · · · · · · · · · · 317
·.···········
·
Contr1"but1ons
through Lodges ..... ..... · . · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
· 358
·· ·
..... .... 545
Honor Ro 11 ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·
409
Members of ..... ..... . ..... .. ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
············
Memorials ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · 3~~
Proclamation of Grand Master .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·············
Report of ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... . ·. · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · 358
Masonic Service Bureaus Committee
416
Members of .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
············ 8
Report of ..... ..... ..... .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · 37
Masonic Widows Program Committee
Members of ..... ..... ..... ..... ... · · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · 41 6
. .
Master Masons' Attendance at Communica
tion ..... .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 423
McElwain, Lester S.
27
Eulogy ..... ..... ... · · · · · · · · · · · · ·-· · · · · · · · ·
·············
Meeting Place
21 o
Changes Listed by Grand Secretary ..... ..... ·
.············
Member's Endowment Fund Contributions by Lodg
es ... · . · · · · · · · · · · · · 545
Membership
Tabulated by Lodges ..... ..... ..... ..... .. ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · 438
205
Membership Statistics .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
····················
Memorial Service ..... ..... ..... ..... · . · · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 25

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

563

Memorial Service Committee
Members of ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ... 417
Report of ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ..... 386
Memorial Temple (see California Masonic Memorial
Temple)
Message of Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

N
Nob Hill Masonic Management, Inc.
Audit ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ... 177
Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 411
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 366

0

Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of, For 1998-1999 ..... ..... .....
.. 44, Back Cove r
Attendance from other Jurisdictions ..... ..... ....
. ..... . .... 31
Since Organization, April 18 A.L. 5850 ..... .....
..... ..... . 513
Election of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Installed for 1998-1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 44, Back Cove r
List of, For 1997-1998 ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ..... . 23
Present at Communication ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ..... ... 23
Officers' Manage!llent Workshops
Members of ..... ..... ..... .. ..... .. .. .... .
. . . ..... .... 417
Opening of 149th Annual Communication ..... .....
..... ..... ..... ... 23
Oration by Grand Orator ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ..... ..... 247

p
Past Grand Masters
List Since Organization ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
..... .... 513
Present at Communication ..... ..... ..... .....
..... ..... ... 24
Visitors at Communication ..... ..... ..... ....
..... ..... .. . 12
Past Grand Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Past Masters, Masters and Wardens of Constituent Lodge
s - Deceased .... 523
Per Capita
Payment by Lodges ..... ..... ..... .... ... . ...
..... ..... . 438
Rate for Fiscal Year Ending June, 1999 ..... .. . .
. ..... ..... .. 97
Rate for Fiscal Year Ending June, 2000 . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Permanent Endowment Fund
(see Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund)

564

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Planning and Research Committee
Members of ........................................... 417
Policy and General Purposes Committee
(Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Members of ........................................... 418
Proclamations of Grand Master
Masonic Homes Endowment Month ......................... 93
Public Schools Month .................................... 92
U.S. Constitution Observance Month ........................ 94
Youth Month ........................................... 91
Public Opening Ceremony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Public Relations Committee
Members of ........................................... 418
Public Schools
Members of ........................................... 418
Proclamation of Grand Master .............................. 92

Policy and General Purpose
(Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Ritual
(Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Temple Properties and Taxation ........................... 387
Tournament of Roses Parade Float ......................... 389
Trial Review .......................................... 393
U.S. Constitution Observance ............................. 399
Wardens' Leadership Retreats ............................. 402
Youth Orders .......................................... 404
Representatives of Lodges
Attendance Reported .................................... 423
Residents at Homes
Covina ............................................... 353
Union City ............................................ 339
Resolutions
No. 98-0 I - Expands Proficiencies in the First Two Degrees to Include
Explanation of Apron and Working Tools and Shortens the Master
Mason's Proficiency
Legislation ..................................... 278
Action by Grand Lodge ........................... 280
No. 98-02 - Allows Any Master Mason to Deliver the Working Tool
Lectures
Legislation ..................................... 280
Action by Grand Lodge ........................... 281
No. 98-03 - Returns the Proficiencies to the Full Form Required Before
1997
Legislation ..................................... 282
Action by Grand Lodge ........................... 284
No. 98-04- Limits Master Mason's Proficiency to the Obligation, Signs
and Modes of Recognition
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 284
Action by Grand Lodge ........................... 285
No. 98-05 - Eliminates Requirement of the Master Mason's Proficiency
for the Master and Wardens
Legislation ..................................... 285
Action Taken ................................... 288
No. 98-06 - Defines Which Past Masters May Participate in the Past
Master's Collective Vote
Legislation ..... . ..... . ........ . ................ 288
Action by Grand Lodge ........................... 289

R
Receptions and Other Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ............................... 30
Recognized Jurisdictions ........................................ 532
Recommendations by Grand Master and Action by Grand Lodge
Recommendation No. I - Financial Accountability for Lodges
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 261
Action Taken ................................... 265
Registered Attendants .......................................... 423
Reports of Boards
California Masonic Foundation Trustees ..................... 361
California Masonic Memorial Temple Trustees ............... 364
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ........................ 358
Masonic Homes Trustees ................................. 317
Nob Hill Masonic Management ............................ 366
·
Reports of Committees
Charters .............................................. 373
Credentials ............................................ 374
Finance ............................................... 375
Jurisprudence .......................................... 376
Masonic History ....................................... 377
Masonic Service Bureau ................................. 378
Memorial Service ....................................... 386

565

566

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

lnfo nnat ion Committee
No. 98-07 - Establishes a Legislation
.... .... .. . . .... .. 290
Legislation .... . .... .. . .... .. .
. . .. .. .. . .. . ... . .. 293
Action by Grand Lodge . . .... . . .
in the Entered Apprentice Degree
No. 98-08 - Pen nits Stated Meetings
.. .. .. .. .. . . .. . . . 293
Legislation .... .... .... .. .. ....
. . . . .. . . .... .... . 297
Action by Grand Lod ge .... .. ....
Meetings
No. 98-09 - Pen nits Quarterly Stated
. . ... . .... . . .. . 297
.
Legislation . . .. . .... .... . .. . ....
. .. .... .... .... .. 300
Action by Grand Lodge .... . . ....
. . .... .... .... . .... .... . 300
No. 98-10 - Withdrawn . . .. .... ..
a Fund to Pay Application Fees
No. 98-11 - Pen nits Lodges to Establish
. . . .. .. .... .... 300
Legislation .... . .. . .. . .... .. . ....
.... . . .. . .... .. 302
.
..
Action by Grand Lod ge .... . ....
Solicitation
ng
ardi
Reg
No. 98-12 - Repeals the Unwritten Law
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
.
.
.
.
.
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .. . .... .. 304
....
...
Action by Grand Lod ge . . . ... . . .
to Allocation of
ee
mitt
t of a Com
No. 98-13 - Requires Appointmen
ects of Mas onic
Asp
al and Oth er
Res ourc es Between Teaching of Ritu
Education
. .... .. . .... .... . 305
Legislation .. .... .... . : .... ....
.. .... ... .. ... 307
Action by Grand Lodge . .... .... ....
ice Pin Designed by the Grand
No. 98-1 4 - Establishes a Ladies Serv
ognition
Lodge Committee on Awards and Rec
.... .... .... . .. . ... .. . 307
....
.
...
Legislation ... ....
... .... . .. . ... . .. 308
Action by Gra nd Lod ge . .... .. . ..
ice Award Pin and Certificate
No. 98-15 - Establishes Ladies Serv
Gra nd Lod ge
Selected From Designes Presented at
.. .. . . . .. .. . .... ... . .. 308
....
.
Legislation .... .... ..
.... .... .... . .. 310
Action Taken . .. .. . ... . .. . .. . ....
. .... .. . .... .... .... .. .. 310
No. 98-16 - [Declared Out of Order]
een the Portion for the Lodge and
No. 98-17 - Separates Lodge Dues Betw
ent
the Portion for the Per Capita Assessm
.. .. . ... . .... .... . 310
Legislation . .. . .... .... .... ...
. .... . . . .. .. . .... . 313
Action by Gra nd Lodge . .... ....
Retirement Pension Plan Committee
. .. . .... .... .... .... . . .. 419
Members of .... . .. . .... .... ...
ly on items referred to Committee)
Ritual Committee (Reported separate
. .... .... . . .... .. . .. . ... 419
Members of ... . ... . . .. .... .. ..
. .... .... . . .... . . . .. .. .. 231
Report of Grand Lecturer .... .... .
.... 23
.... .... .. . .... .... . . .... ... .
Roll Call . .... ... . ... . .... ....

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

567

s
Senior Grand War den' s Remarks
109
;~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Sesquicentennial Celebration Com~l~
Members of
. 419
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ...
Sessions of Communic~~i~~.. · · · · ·
Monday Mor ning . .. . ... . .. .
23
·························....
Monday Afternoon
31
.
.
.
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
··········
Tuesday Mor ning .. : : : : : : : : : · · ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . 36
·
·
·
·
n
rnoo
Tuesday Afte
: · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .... . 40
Wednesday Mor ning . : : : : : : : : : : :
44
lee A~~d~
Sev~n!Y-five Year Pins (see Diamond Jubi
)
es
Statistical Table of Constituent Lod
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . 438
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
g
Supplemental Appropriations
Auditor's Report . .... .... ... . ... 115, 131, 147, 155, 167, 177, 187

... ........ ........

T
mittee
Temple Properties and Taxation Com
Members of
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . 419
Report of .. : : : : : : : · · · · · · · · · · ·
· · · · ... 387
·····························
Third Degree Conferrals
.. . ... 88
....
.
..
.
....
~i~~ . . . ....
Tournament of Roses Parad~·Fl~~~ c~~
Members of
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .... 420
Report of . . . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
.. 389
.. . .... .. . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ....
Town Hall Meeting C~~~i~~~ ....
Members of
· .. . .... .... .. 420
·····························
Trial Records
Listed . .... .
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 213
~eport ofCom~i~~~·~~ T~l;l ·R~~i~~ · ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· ·· · · · · · · · · · · . . .... 393
.
Tna l Review Committee
Members of
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . 420
... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.· .· ....
Report of
.... .... .... .. 393
....
....
.
..
.
..
....
.
.... ..

U.
Unfinished Business From 1997 commu01cat1on
endation No
Gra n? Master Gre sham 's Recomm
· I - Elimination of
Candidates Proficiencies
Legislation
· · . 266
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. ..
Action by G~~d L·~dg·e· : ....
. 269
. . .... .... . . .... ..
.

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Resolution No. 97-05 - Substitutes "Holy Writings" for "Holy Bible" in
the Ritual
Legislation ......... ......... ......... ......... . 270
Action by Grand Lodge ......... ......... ......... 271
Resolution No. 97-07 - Addresses Procedures When Alternate Holy
Writings Are Used
Legislation ......... ......... ......... ......... . 271
Action by Grand Lodge ......... ......... ......... 273
Resolution No. 97-12 - Permits Tiler to Sit in the Doorway
Legislation ......... ......... ......... ......... . 273
Action by Grand Lodge ......... ......... ......... 274
Resolution No. 97-14 - Establishes Rules for the Hiram Award
Legislation ......... ......... ......... ......... . 274
Action by Grand Lodge ......... ......... ......... 276
Resolution No. 97-16 - Allows for Notification of Applications for
Degrees or Affiliation Through a Masonic Secretaries Association
Legislation ......... ......... ......... ......... . 276
Action by Grand Lodge ......... ......... ......... 277
Uniform Code of By-Laws ......... ......... ......... ......... .. 210
Union City Home (Decoto Home)
Report of Administrator ......... ......... ......... ....... 333
Report of Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
Residents Listed ......... ......... ......... ......... .... 339
U.S. Constitution Observance Committee
Members of ......... ......... ......... ......... ....... 421
Proclamation of Grand Master ......... ......... ......... ... 94
Report of ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... 399

v
Video and Creative Projects Committee
Members of ......... ......... ......... ......... ....... 421
Visits to Other Grand Lodges ......... ......... ......... ......... . 83
Visits to Other Organiz.ations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

w
Wardens' Leadership Retreats Committee
Members of ......... ......... ......... ......... ....... 421
Report of ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... 402
Widows Program (See Masonic Widows Committee)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

569

Wordlow, Anthony P.

~!~gr~phy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ill

en ar...... ......... ........
68
Decision s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·257
····
·········
·········
M essage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Photograph. . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .· . .· .· .· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 53..
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 11
Proclamations

Mas~nic Homes Endowment Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
93
Pubhc Schools Month ......... ......... ........ · · · 92
~.S.i~.stitution Observance Month ......... ..... : : : 94
onth . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ou
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 91
Recommendations
......... ......... ......... ......... .. 261

y
Youth Group Representatives
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 14
Youth Orders (Activities)
Grand Master's Proclamation
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 91
Members of
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 422
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
.......
of
Report
......... ......... ......... ......... ......... 404

570

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

571

572

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

573

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

OFFICERS OF THE
GRAND LODGE F.& A.M. OF CALIFORNIA

Commencing October 14, 1998
Grand Master ...................................................................................................................................... Melville H. Nahin (S20)
6SOO Wilshire Blvd., 16th Floor, Los Angeles 90048-492S
Deputy Grand Master ................................................................................................................................. Alvin J. Weis (480)
627 N. Silvcrado Drive, Lafaycnc 94S49-S334
Senior Grand Warden ........................................................................................................................... David C. Decker (419)
1381 Millwood Road, Riverside 92S06-S306
Junior Grand Warden ........................................................................................................................... C. Ray Whitaker (280)
228 S. "J" Street, Madera 93637-464S
Grand Treasurer ................................................................................................................................... Thomas C. Holm (428)
'
1131 Aamingo Street, Glendora 91741-2383
Grand Secretary ................................................................................................................................. John L. Cooper III (467)
S43 Green Ridge Drive, #6, Daly City 94014-3480
Grand Lecturer ............................................................................................................................ Ulysses G. Patropulos (344)
121S Washington Street, #1, San Francisco 94108- 10S3
Grand Chaplain ....................................................................................................................... Scan N. Foran (373, 677. S28)
2S826 Piuma Road, Calabasas 91302-2JS3
A.G.L. Division I .......................................................................................................................... Edward P. Marghcrio (347)
2S03 Heide Coun, El Sobrantc 94803-3609
A.G.L. Division II ............................................................................................................................. Robcn S. Watanabe (S8)
6908 Westmoreland Way, Sacramento 9S831-27 I 7
A.G.L. Division Ill ............................................................................................................................... Harold A. Macy (769)
2127 East Avenue Q-2, Palmdale 93SS0-4029
A.G.L. Division JV .............................................................................................................................. Willis H. Rogers (300)
280 W. Highland Avenue, Redlands 92373-6768
Grand Orator ............................................................................................................................................ Melvyn B. Stein (3S)
2733 First Avenue, San Diego 92103-6243
Assistant Grand Secretary .............................................................................................................. Joel H. Springer Ill (462)
771 33rd Avenue, San Francisco 94121
Grand Marshal ......................., ........ ,......................................._ •.,.................................................. A. Sherman Ostrom (677)
7142 Forest Hills Road, West Hills 91307-1339
Grand Standard Bearer ....................................................................................................... Urbano "Ben" Billcna (839, 283)
I S4S Stand lake Street, San Diego 921 S4-2840
Grand Sword Bearer ................................................................................................................. Xavier A "Sam" Pitassi (S42)
10041 HayvcnhurstAvcnuc, Nonh Hills 91343-1103
Grand Bible Bearer ...................................................................................................................... David Francis Philips (272)
S22 So. Alexandria Avenue, #302, Los Angeles 90020-282S
Senior Grand Deacon ..................................................................................................................... George A. Anderson (328)
22812 Fem Avenue, Torrance 90SOS-2934
Junior Grand Deacon .......................................................................................................................... James D. Stephens (26)
1460 Cold Springs Road, Placerville 9S667-9440
Senior Grand Steward .................................................................................................................. Franklin C. Sing (370, 169)
SS9 14th Avenue, San Francisco 94J 18-3S29
Junior Grand Steward ............................................................................................. Alexander T. Kirkpatrick (122, 61, 188)
3926 Randolph Avenue, Oakland 94602-1211
Grand Punuiv•t ................................................................................................................,... ,. .....,. .. Bllpr L. Friedman (S20)
1840 Camden Avenue, #I 07, Los Angeles 9002S
Grand Organist ................................................................................................................................ Francis C. Atkinson (202)
6218 Jamieson Avenue, Encino 91316-7222
Grand Tiier ........................................................................................................................................ Howard J. Dumont (786)
8SJ 7 El Modena, Elvcna 9S626-9S68
Assistant Grand Organist ............................................................................................................ Joseph Von Gcczy (42, 400)
I 107 2nd Avenue, #604, Redwood City 94063
Assistant Grand Tiler ..................................................................................................................._ ..,..,..•.• JICk M. Rose (428)
601 N. Darwood Avenue, San Dimas 91773

The One Hundred Fiftieth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California will be held
in the California Masonic Memorial Temple, 1ll1 California Street, San Francisco, commencing
on Monday, October ll, 1999.

