•

.•

and LOdge of California
of

he

ve1ciu:a, Grand Secretary of. the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge·
d Accepted Maaona of the jurisdiction
do
1
fy that the following pages
ntain j true and f~ithful
of the proceedings of that -Grand Body at its· SixtY-fifth
manmfcation-c9mmcnced at the City of San Francisco on
he thirteenth ~lay of October, -'\ L. 5914, and terminated on
ixtcer th day of said month.

I have hereunto appended my
official aienature and have
affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Frandsco. · this llixth day
of November, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred Jlnd Fourteen.

,JOHN D. MURPHEY
"ranb Slutrr
1914

Grand Lodge of California
I. JoHX VVHJC!IEH, Grand Secretary of the .\I.'. W.'. Crand Lodg<:
of Free and Accepted :'.\fasons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following· pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixty-fifth
:\nnual Commt111ication-comme'l1ced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the thirteenth day of October, A. L. 5914, and terminated on
Friday, the sixteenth day of .said month.

Jn wr.attmnng llt,urllf

•

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have
affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this sixth day
of November, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
H unclrcd and Fourteen.

\

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

Free and Accepted Masons
OF THE

Jurisdiction of California,
AT ITS

SIXTY-FIFTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION,
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 13th, A. D. 1914, A. L. 5914,
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 16, A. D. 1914, A. L. 5914.

SAN FRANCISCO:
Shannon-Conmy Printing Co .• 509 Sansome Street
1914

GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE

oF nm

OF

Grand Lodge of California

lJ1rrr auh i\rrrpteh flasnus
01' Tll E

FOR

I

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA.
The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5914

SIXTY-FIFTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
(,'rand },faster ...... ,...............M.".\V.".BENJAMIK F. BLEDSOE.. ...... S;m Bernardino
Address, Federal Building, Los Angeles.
nc('11tv Grand ilfaster........R.'. W.' .ALBERT G. Bt:R:'>IETT ...................... Santa Rosa
.
Address, State Capitol, Sacramento.
Senior Grand Wardc11 ...... .R. ·. \V.' -FRANCIS V. KEESLit\G .............. San Francisco
Address, Chronicle Building.
/11nior Grand l¥arden ........ R.'.\V.".W1r.Lic\M RHODES HERVEY ......... Los Angeks
Address. Trust and Savings Bank.
(;rand Treasurer .............. .V.'. W.'.WILLIAM P. Fn.MER ............... San Francisco
Address, 330 Jackson Street.
(,'rand Secretary ..................v ... w.· .JOHN WH!CHER .................. San Luis ()J,i,po
Address, :flfasonic Temple, San Francisco.
Gra11d Lecturer ....................v.·. \V. · .THO.!,L\S J. Jl,\KER ..................... S:icramento
Address, :flfasonic Temple, San Francisco.
Gnrnd Chaplain ..................V.'. R.'. JOHN B. llAKN.\....
....... Colton
.·lssistant Grand Secretary..
\V."-rL\IWY S. JoH:-ISON.. ...
.San Francisco
Grand Marshal ... .
\V.'.\Vir.r.i.nr Kcn:-n:K
........ .San Diego
Gra11d Standard Bearer
\V '.rb\'1n J. REF~f.
.... ............
.... Ventura
Gra11d Sword Bearer
\.V.'.Ho1urn V. Ln..
.. ........ Fort Jone'
Grand Bible Bearer............
\V.'.JoHN P. ]\R:11AK....
.. .. San Jose
Senior Grand Deacon........
\V.'.jAMf.S C. PoTTLI'..
.. ........ Fresno
/1111 ior Grand Deacon ......
\V.'. JooiEPH l-1. STEPH ttK:;..
..Sacramento
Grand Orator ...........
\V.'.:\l.\TT S. Hn;HF.s..
.. .... Pasadena
Se11ior Grand Steward........
Vv.' .M.\JOR S. CooK..........
...... El Centro
Junior Grand Steward........
\V.'.CL\RENCE A. BERRY ........... Mokelumne Hill
\V. ·.CHARLES H. R1TCHIE...
.. ... Ocean Park
Grand Pursuivant
\V.' .SA:.tt:EL D. MAYER ................. San Francisco
Gra11d Organist ................ ..
\V.' .Gf.ORGE P. AIL\:.ts ................... San Francisco
(,'ra11d Tsfer ...................... .
I 4)

- - - - ....

_____________________,.

The .:\fost \\' orshipfttl l~rand Lodge of Free and Accepted ::VJasons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Sixty-fifth ;\nnual Communication in the :\fasonic
Temple in the City of San Francisco, on Tuesday. Octoher
13th, A. L. 5914. at IO o'clock a. m.
The Committee on Credentials reporter! the presence
of the following Grand Officers:
M.'.-J.·.]oHN D. ).fuRPHEY ........................................... .............. Grand 1V!astcr
R.'. \:\/.'.BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE.................................... Dcputy Grand Master
R.'. \:\/.'.ALBERT G. BuRNETT........................................ Senior Grand Warden
~:. W.'.FRANCIS V. KEESLING .................................... hmior Grand Warden
w.·.wrLLlAM P. F1LMER.................................................. G1·a11d Treasurer
V. ·. W. ·.JOHN WHICHER.............................
..... ........ Grand Secretary
V.'. \V.'.THOMAS J. BAKER ........................... ........................... Grand Lecturer
V. ·· R. · · LEMt:EL L. TEsT..............................
. ......... Grand Cha('lain
w.·.wrLLJAM H. \:\/ASTE...................
.. .................... Grand Orator
\:V.' -HARRY S. ]OHNSON ................................Assistant Grand Secrctan•
W.'.JOHN P. ]ARMAN .................................................. Grand Bible Bcarc~W. ·-BEN LEVI.. ............................................................ Scnior Grand Deacon
\.V.'.FRF.D B. Woon............................................ ...... .Junior Grand Deacon
w.·.ROB!E E. DrLL....................................................Senior Grand Steward
W.".BENJAMIN B. TUTTLF; ................................... Junior Grand Steward
w.· .THEO. J. :VfrLLJKEN .................................................. Grand P11rsuirn11t
w.·.SAMUEL D. MAYER ..................................................... Grand Organist
W. ·-GEORGE P. ADAMS ............................................ .................. Grand Tyler

v ...

( 5)

6

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS.

The Grand Master then delivered his annual address
as follows:

J\,r:. w:. W1LLIAM s. WEns

:VI." .w: .SAMUEL C. DENSO!\"
M.". W.". ]AMES B. STF.VENs
M.". w:. WILLIAM T. LFC,\S

M.". w:. 0RRJN s. HENDERSON

]'vJ.". W.". THOMAS FLlNT
M. A NGl\LLOTTI

)if ... \V ... FRANK
~!.".

w:. CHARLES L. PATTON

w:. CHARLES W. Nt:TTTNG
]\[.°. w:. GEORGE M. PERJNE

]\[.°.

l\f.". \V.". DANA R. \VELLER. and

l\I.". W.". W1LLTAM P. F1u'1ER

And the Officers and Representatives of more than a
Constitutional number of Lodges to constitute a ciuorum.
The Committee on Credentials reciuested further time in
which to make a final report. and it was granted.
The Grand "'.\Taster appointed the followin~· brethren
to fill the vacancies occasioned by the absence of Brothers
\\'illiam 1-.:.ettner. Joshua D. Tucker and Leo \-. Youngworth:
Grand :\larshal, Charles (~. Landscheit;
Grand Standard Dearer. Douglaos B. Crane;
Grand Sword Bearer, Roderick G. Guyett.
And the Grand Lodge was opened i11 Ample Form.
with a delightful solo by Drother l\ orman A. :\foll in of
Sacramento, and the following· prayer by the Grand
Chaplain:
PRAYER.
Our Father in Heaven ! we come to Thee this day because we love
Thee. We come to Thee because we would worship Thee. We come
to Thee individually, and we pray Thee that Thou wilt make us true
and brave and strong and wise and good. We come to Thee collectively, as members of this Great Fraternity, and we pray Thee that Thou
wilt give us wisdom and strength and courage and gnidance. W c pray
Thee that our influence for good may he as broad as the wide world.
We pray Thee that our sympathies may be as deep as human need, and
we pray Thee that our service to our fellow men on earth may be
pleasing and acceptable in Thy sight. We pray Thee that this Grand
Lodge, thus begun in order, may be conducted in peace and closed in
perfect harmony. In the name of Him whose life on earth was the
perfect example of brotherly love, relief and truth; in the name of Him
who taught us to say, Our Father, we ask it. Amen.

7

Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
The ceremony in which you have just participated has opened with
amplified detail the Sixty-fifth Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of California, and it becomes my duty, agreeably to the requirements of the constitution, to acquaint you with such acts as I have
performed in fulfilling the trust imposed upon me as your chiet executive officer at the last Communication of this Grand Lodge, as well
as give you such information as I have relative to the general welfare
of the craft, and such suggestions as to legislation and other matters
as will tend to promote the fundamental principles of Free Masonry,
to the end that the membership may enjoy a greater fruition as we
pass from the accomplished things of the past to the possibilities of
the future.
,
Masonry has never been content to rest upon the laurels of past
achievement, splendiclly as that stands out in its history and tradition.
It has an "unhasting unresting," never-ending work to accomplish in
its chosen mission to elevate mankind. That there is ample work to
accomplish is pitifully evidenced by the unspeakable calamity that
now overshadows the greater part of the civilized world. The accomplishment of t.he dream of the idealist for peace on earth, good will
to men, that seemed so near of realization in the first generation of
the twentieth century, is as absolutely impossible as at any time in
the most brutal ages of the world's history. It was to be hoped
that under the guidance of an all-wise directing Master the influence
of the millions of our craft who stood for the fatherhood of God and
the brotherhood of man, such a stupendous calamity might have been
averted. But such was not to be, and it only the more forcibly reminds us of our solemn responsibilities. The fight is not lost, but
only stayed. In the end justice and right and eternal truth mnst prevail, and in the accomplishment of that grand mission Free Masonry
must and will play not only an important part, but it should be the
most important role; and I sincerely trust and hope and pray that
the beneficent influence of the teachings of our great institution will so
permeate the citizenship of this great nation that a repetition of this
stupendous calamity may never he the fate of the people of this continent; certain!>· the example of its appalling tragedy must inevitably
make the teachings of Masonry more effective, and the probability of
its recurrence less probable, and in this connection we should express
our thanks to Almighty God that there stands at the helm of state a
man that inspires the confidence of security and fills us with an abicl-

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

111g faith that there will he a safe and sane administration of our af-

is conclusive proof that such practices arc not tolerated. I am satisfied
that there has never been a time in California Masonry when manhood
has been subordinated to money, or where character has not 11ccn the
eS'sential qualificati<Mo of those who sought the l?encfit of our privileges.

fairs in this momentous period of our history.
I feel it incumbent upon me at this time to call your attention to the necessity of taking some action relative to the relief
of the terrible suffering and misery that necessarily follow in the wake
of the fearful cataclysm that embraces practically all the nations of
Europe. There is no doubt hut that in the immediate future the Grand
jurisdictions on this continent will he called upon to take concerted
action. In such a movement the loyalty of California to the sacred precepts of our Institution and her sympathy with the pitiful calls of
suffering humanity will be exemplified in no uncertain manner. This
is a vital and impcrati,·c matter-a matte.r of tremendous magnitude,
and the solution calls for serious and conscientious consideration. The
suffering and distress engendered by the monumental struggle has had
no counterpart in the history of the world's warfare. Thousandshundreds of thousands of those who are helplessly depen9cnt are the
immediate families of tho;;e who have assumed our vows and burdens
and responsibilities. and arc entitled to our benefits and privileges. One
of the first and most important lessons of the craft declares in no uncertain terms that l\Tasonic charity recognizes no limitation of country
or clime. In order that this matter may be brought to the consideration of the Grand Lodge, I have appointed a special committee of three,
consisting of Past Grand Master Charles L. Patton, Otto L. Sues and
Dozier Finley, to formulate such a plan of action as will appeal to their
discretion and meet the requirements of the situation, and present the
same in the form of a report to this Grand Lodge.
This has been a l~anner year for Pree Masonry in California. The
reports in the hands of the Grand Secretary show a greater increase
of membership than that of any antecedent year in our history. Thirteen dispensations for the formation of new lodges have been issued,
and in this respect also exceeding all previous records. This is as it
should be. Onr wonderful Empire of the West is advancing in wealth
and population as no other commonwealth in the Union, and it is hut
natural that this gr cat fraternity should keep pace in the general uphl'ilding. I hope that the growth has been natural and healthy. In my
visitations throughout the state I have endeavored to impress upon the
membership that ~lasonry is not a reformatory. nor an institution that
recognizes mere- monetary stringency as a justillcation for accepting
1111desirable timber. There is nothing more antagonistic to Masonic
teaching and more disgusting to real l\Iasons than the sugg-estion that
keen rivalry and small treasuries will justify promotion hy "drumming"
up carnlidatcs. The character of the men who have assembled in the
lodge rooms and at the banquet tables in the scver;t! l\f:io;onic districts

...

It is surprising to one who has made no ir~vestigation how slight
is the criminal clement in our Masonic membership as disclosed by the
number in this Jurisdiction against whom charges for criminal offenses,
Masonic or otherwise, have been preferred. Less than one in evcrv
twenty-five hundred Masons in California is prosecuted for crimes in·volving moral turpitude in the tribunals of the order, and little more
than <;>ne-half pf that number are actually found guilty ancl disciplined.
This, of course, includes all prosecutions, whether for offenses designated as purely Masonic offenses, or violations of the penal statutes of
the state. While there is in some lodges. no doubt, a reluctance to
prosecute and a tendency to minimize. I feel confident that there are
in every lodge those whose con;cientions devotion to dutv would not
permit them to let those who have seriously offended • against our
laws escape the just consequences of their acts. Judged hy this practical standard of actual experience. we may safely conclude that our
lodges are living up faithfully to the traditions of our institution in
maintaining the highest standard of. qualilicatinn for those who arc permitted to assume our obligations.
cannot pass this question of .qualification of a member without
discussing for a moment the requirement of our laws that applicants
for the degrees must be able literally to conform to our work. It
seems to me that this is placing too much stress upon the physical
r~ther than the mental equipment of candidates. Tn makinQ," my visitatlons throl'ghout the state my attention has been repeatedly called to
men who are extremely dcsiron:; of becoming ~Tasons. men who are
eminently qualilied mentally and morally, and ):et who suffer from some
physical imperfection, g;enerally slight, that disqualifies them under
our laws. In every instance these men were enthnsiasticallv endorsed
hy the Masons in the localities in which they li,·c. Som~ arc men
whose ancestors for many generations have been zealons ~Tasons, and
who by reason of this association felt keenly the misfortune that precluded .them from following in their footsteps. I feel that this great
frate.rmty ~ould he taking a long step in the .right direction if the
reqmrement as to physical, qualification were eliminated from our laws
and the whole matter left. to the wise discretion of_ the local lodges, 0 :
at least that the law be amended so as to require only substantial physical confor.mity, leaving a very large discretion in the subordinate lodge
to determme what shall constitute "substantial" conformity. In other
words, where the local lodge shall favorably pass upon the physical

10

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

alone, well merited; a reward higher than life's honors can bestow, a
reward which gives the weary craftsman after years of toil and sorrow an eternal, blissful rest."

sufficiency of a candidate, that finding slwuld be practically finally
determinative of the issue.
There is a pronounced tendency of the Grand Lodge, acting within
its undoubted constitutional authority, to curtail the independent activities of the constituent lodges. Wherever it is practicable, I am disposed to think that we should extend the field of activity in the local
lodge, grant them a wider discretion and impose upon them greater
respons'.bilities. I think this would result in the development of a
higher standard of citizenship within our order. Those of us who
are familiar with the character of the discussions in Masonic lodges
know that questions are seldom debated along broad lines of Masonic
policy. The right or justice or equity of the subject matter is relegated
to the background, and the issue to be determined usually finds expression in the question, "Have we a right to do it? Is not this a question solely under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge?" We should
be more liberal with the constituent lodges. \Ve should foster the
development of the individual Mason in his local surroundings, rather
than to make him feel that he is a mere automaton expressing the
will of a sovereign power on all questions affecting his well-being.

NECROLOGY.

I had beeu in hopes that I might repeat with all the sincere gratifi

cation it would afford the report of the Past Grand :V1aster Monroe,
wherein he said: "\Ve thank the Great Architect of the universe that
the cycle of time has not cnt down any officer of this Grand Lodge
since our last Communication."
The silent scepter of death has removed out of the great East
one of the great lights of Masonry in this Grand Jurisdiction. On the
14th day of January, 1914, Past Grand Master Foshay, while actively
performing the duties as chief executive of one of the great fraternal
organizations of this state, was stricken in death, and thus was smitten
one of the great pillars of Masonry in California. Little did we think,
my brethren, that this great, active man. strong mentally and physically, as he thrilled us with his wonderful voice in the opening of the
first Communication of this Grand Lodge in this magnificent Temple,
would not be able within a few short months to respond again to roll
call. Past Grand Master Foshay was a genuinely lbvable characterhonest, fearless, able. He has left an indelible influence OJ\ Masonry,
as well as the citizenship of this state. It may be well said of him, as
was said of one of his predecessors, "No, not dead, but gone beforegone to the reward which a busy and useful life, spent not for self

ll

A few months after the closing of the last session of the Grand
Lodge, and on the 17th day of .:\farch, 1914, the venerable Grand Bible
Bearer, Edwin A. Sherman, weighted down with years and honors,
passed peacefully to the Great Beyond. He was a conscientious,
earnest, faithful, active citizen, a Mason long before a large majority
of us who are here assembled appeared upon the scenes of this world's
activities. Major Sherman loved Masonry and never lost sight of a11
opportunity of singing its praises. It was the guiding star of his
destiny.
"Their voices are silent, yet they speak to us;
Their forms are unseen, yet they are with us."
Shortly after the death of Brother Sherman, I appointed John P.
Jarman of San Jose Grand Bible Bearer to succeed Brother Sherman.

'.

The death roll in other Grand Jurisdictions is a long one and
contains the names of men not only prominent in ~1asonrv in their
several states, but also men who have stood foremost in . state and
national life. vVe particularly note the passing of the late United States
Senator, Henry M. Teller, Past Grand Master of Colorado, a man of
wonderful activity, splendid ability and unswerving fidelity to every
trust.
The following constitutes a complete roster of those whose voices
are silent here but who enjoy that splendid promise and consolation of
Free Masonry-immortality. They ha,·c long ere this been welcomed
by the Kind Messenger to that all-perfect, glorious and celestial lodge
above.
Alabama: Rufus Wills Cobb, Past Grand Master. born Februarv
25. 1829, died November 26, 1913. The Grand Lodge of Alabama als~
lost "William Yates Titcomb. their distinguished chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, who died December 23, 1913, at the ripe
age of 86.
Colorado: Henry J\foore Teller, Past Grand :Master. born ·May
23, 1830, died February 23, 1914. Brother Teller was for many years
in public life, having been U. S. Senator from Colorado. and was Secretary of the Interior under President Artlmr. Colorado also mourns
the loss of George Edward Simonton, Past Grand Master, who died
in Denyer, the place of his birth, on the 24th of June, 1914. aged 51.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

12

13

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Connecticut: Frank \V. Havens, Past Grand J\laster and Grand
Secretary emeritus, born December 2, 1845, d'cd Octolicr 21, 1913. Also
Leon M. Woodford, Past Grand ]\faster, who died December 30, 1913.
Delaware: Jacob F. Mynich, Past Junior Grand \Varden, born
October 20, 1833, died Febrnary 19. 1914.
Idaho: James Alonzo Pinney, Past Grand Master, died Febrnary
4, 1914, aged nearly 79 years.
Tllinois: John Robert Thomas, Past Grand :\faster, born October
11, 1846, died January 20, 1914. He was wantonly murdered bf a convict in the State penitentiary at J\IcAlester, Oklahoma. while in consultation with a client. He was a distinguished soldier and served for
five terms in the Congress of the L'nited States.
Indiana: Joseph A. J\IcKce, Senior Grand \Varden, horn December 11, 1871, died December 6, 1913.
Kansas: Fred \I/ash hon, Past Grand Master, born January 23,
1867, died July 12, 1914.
Kentucky: John ·waldcn Landrnm, Past Grand 1\Iastcr. born
August 13, 1861, died March 14, 1914.
Micl1igan: Francis D. Clark<>. Grand :\laster, horn January 31,
1849, and died while holding the office oi Gnmd Master, 011 the 7th
of September, 1913.
Il-1ississippi: \Valter :\lorland Conner, Past Grand ]\faster, born
October 9, 1855, died August 4, 1913.
.Missouri: John \Vashington Owen, Grand Tyler since 1880, who
died at the spkndid age of 89 years. This jurisdiction also lost Chesley A. Mosman, Deputy Grand ;\laster, who died January 31, 1914, at
the age of 73.
.Montana: Fielding L. Gran•s, Past Junior Grand \Varden, passed
out after 80 years of usefulness on earth.
Nebraska: Samuel \Varn.'11 Hayes. Past Grand J\fastrr, horn September 26, 1819, died ?\ovcmher 15. 1913. He was the oldest Mason
in the jurisdiction. Nathaniel M. Ayers, Past Cr;rnd Master. horn June
12, 1847, died Novemher 19. 1913. George BelI' France, Past Grand
Master, born January JO. 1837, died August 16, 1914.
Xorth Dakota: William Sprig-gs. Senior Grand Warden, born
July 3. 1863, di<'d June 10, 1914.
Xm·a Scotia: Thomas 1'renaman, Pa:;t Crnrnl '!\faster. horn July
16, 1843, died April 27, 1914.
South C~trolina: .\ugustine Thos. Sim the, Past (;rand 11 astN,
horn Octoh•r 5, 1842, <lil'd June 24. 1914.
South Dakota : Syh·estcr Jc nes Conklin, !'ast Senior Cram!
Warden, born 1\lay 5, 1829_, died 1\fay 20, 1914.

Tennessee: Bernard Aaron Phillips, Crand Tyler since 1896. This
jurisdiction also lost the distinguished J:imcs D. Richardson, who had
been Grand Master and at the time of his ckmisc was the head cf the
Scottish Rite for the Southcrn Jurisdiction. He died July 24. 1914. On
the 12th cf February, 1914. Past Cram! Mast('!' James \V. Trwin. died
at his home in Sa1·annah. Tenn., after mere than 70 years of acti,·c and
useful life.
Texas: James l larvcv l\fcLcary, Past Grand 1\Iaster, horn July
27. 1845, died January 5, 1914.
Utah: Charles Bn:crton Jack, Past Cr:md 1\Lister. born .\pril 21.
1854. died June 4. 1914. Succeeded the \Tncrahlc Christopher Diehl as
Grand Secretary.
Washington: \Villiam Henry \Vhite. Past Grand '!\faster, died
April 29, 1914, agcJ 71 years.
LODGES CONSTITUTltD.

\Vithin sixty clays after the adjournment of the last Communication of the Crand Lodge the following lodges, to which charters had
been duly issued, were constituted. in accordance with our established form:
!\faricopa I\n. 434. at J\laricopa, I\:crn county. California.
Fairmont No. 4.35. at San Francisco, California.
Clarcment I\ o. 436, at Claremont, Los Angeles cot·nh' .
Lancaster No. 437. at Lancaster, Los Angeles cotmtv.·
Germania N'o. 438. at city of Los Angeles, California".
Tyrian ?'\o. 439, at :'lfantcca. San Joaquin county, California.

VTSJT.\TIONS.

On the 31st day ot Octohcr, 1913. I conn•ned the Crand Lodge <if
California in the lodge room of Durant Lodge I\ o. 268 ;me! ins~alkd
1-lon. \Villiam H. \Vastc as Crand Orator of this Gr;rnd Lodge. ;\s this
was Judge \Vaste's lodge, the spirit of cordiality that prevailed was
very pronounced. the n1emhers appreciating the fact that a desern·d
compliment had hcen paid one of their most distinguishccl rl'presentatin's.

On \'ovcrnlier 3d. in c"1npany witl1 (;rand Oratur \\'aste, \\'l' \·i,;·
ited Scqroia L"dg(' '\o. 349 ancl witn('ssecl the putting on of the Third
Degree by the Past :\fosters of that lodge. Needless to sav, the work
was impressively done. Suh;;equcntly Jndgc \V:1ste and .
had

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the good fortune to attend the public installation of the officers of
Sequoia Lodge. At both of these meetings there was a large attend;ince and the greatest enthusiasm was manifested.
On November 6th I e::invened the Grand Lodge of California in
University Lodge No. 394 at the city of Los Angeles and laid the
corner-stone of the new National Guard Armory in that city. On this
occasion a patriotic address was delivered by General Frank C. Prescott, and the Grand Lodge was honored by an escort of Knight Templar. There was an enthusiastic assemblage of patriotic citizens and
Masons to witness the ceremony.
On November 22d I paid an official visit to Charter Rock Lodge
No. 410 of Berkeley and found this youngest of the representatives of
the brotherhood in the l.~niversity City to be in flourishing condition
and enthusiastic workers in the cause.
On November 24th I was invited by the members of the. Acacia
Fraternity of Berkeley to be their guest at dinner and for the evening.
I was much impressed with the earnest and conscientious demeanor of
the thirty or more young Masons whom I found to constitute the membership of this fraternity, and I could readily appreciate th" power
for good that they must exercise in the university community. Many of
these young men by their own efforts were supporting themselves
through their university course. They are under heavy· expense for
rentals, and it occurred to me that some benevolently disposed Masons
who possess the means to justify it could find no more laudable object
for their bo11ntv than to erect, equip and transfer to these worthy young
Masons and tl~cir successcrs a suitable place of shelter. At Stanford
University there is also a branch of the Acacia Fraternity, with a large
and enthusiastic membership, who also deserve the highest credit for
the splendid example that they set in the university. life. It was my
good fortune recently to be the guest of these young men at dinner,
and I found conditions there to he very similar to those existing at
Berkeley.
On the 29th day of November I convened the Grand Lodge at the
city of Guadalupe and there laid the corner-stone on behalf of the
.\Iasonic fraternity of a new hall jointly dedicated to the use of the
.\Iasonic and Odd fellows lodges. :Notwithstanding the weather was
inclement, it raining during the greater part of the day, there was an
attendance of fully seventy per cent of the Masons of the Santa Maria
Valley. Xo more enthusiastic body of :Masons are to be found any
place in California. On the 1st day of July, 1914, I again convened the
Grand Lodge in the city of Guadalupe for the purpose of dedicating
this hall, the corner-stone of which had been laid in ~ovember. At
both of these meetings Past Grand Master Lucas was present and

delivered interesting and instructive historical addresses, he being one
of the oldest living Masons of Guadalupe Lodge No. 237. This lodge
has had many ups and downs in its long history, but at last the
brethren feel that they are on the high road to prosperity, and I certainly commend them for their zeal, courage and energy in the splendid work they are doing.
On December 27th, in response to the unwritten law, I installed
the officers of all 'the Masonic lodges in the city of Sacramento, in
Masonic Temple. On this occasion the Senior Grand Warden, Brother
Burnett, Grand Orator Waste, Grand Secretary Whicher, Grand Lecturer Baker and Grand Pursuivant Milliken were in attendance. The
meeting was a large one and a splendid Masonic spirit pervaded the
entire assemblage. Eloquent addresses were delivered by the Senior
Grand \Varden and the Grand Orator.
On December 29th, in company with the Grand Lecturer, I installed
in San Joaquin Lodge No. 19 the officers of the lodges in San Joaquin
county. The brethren from all over the county responded and the
large lodge room was filled to its full capacity. An interesting and
instructive program was presented, in which, among other persons,
Past Grand Master Henderson took a leading part.
On the 16th day of January I installed at Woodland in Woodland
Lodge No. 156 the officers of the several Yolo county lodges. The
large turnout of Masons at this place was especially gratifying to me,
as I was at this time returning to the county of my nativity, having
been absent therefrom practically all the time since infancy. The
meeting was cordial and enthusiastic and was thoroughly enjoyed by
all present.
On January lith, in company with the Grand Orator, I attended
a joint installation of the officers of Pinole Lodge No. 353 and Pinole
Chapter No. 220, Order of the Eastern Star. The work performed by
the ladies of the Chapter was such that neither the Grand Orator nor
myself have taken occasion to say much about our part in the ceremonies. I have found no more enthusiastic and hospitable Masons
anywhere in my visitations than those of this little lodge .
On February 19th, in company with Grand Orator 'Waste, I
paid an official visit to San Mateo Lodge No. 226 and witnessed the
conferring of the Master's Degree by the Past Masters of the lodges
of the 36th Masonic District.
On February 20th we visited Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38 and had an
interesting and instructive program. There were at this meeting representatives from the several lodges of the 35th Masonic District.
On February 21st we visited the lodges of the 37th Masonic District at the city of San Jose. The attendance was large and a very

14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

16

On 'Niay 31st I attended a meeting of the East Bav Past Masters'
Association 111 Berkeley, and spoke briefly on the work of the endowment fund.

lively l\lasonic spmt was manifested. This, as in all other districts of
California, is doing splendid work. Subsequently I again visited Friendship Lodge in this city and spent a very pleasant and profitable

On the 14tl1 day of May I convened the Grand Lodge in the Citv
of Orlai:d and dedicated the beautiful thirty thousand dollar tempi~
ere~ted m that place by Orland Lodge Ko. 265. The courage and fickhty of these brethren may be judged when I say that this lodge of
less than seventy members entlrnsiasticaily concurred in the erection of
a tt•mplc to cost $30,000. 1t is richly and handsomely furnished arnl
is a real home of which any lodge might be justly proud.

evenmg.
On the 30th day of Dccernhcr I visited Los Banos Lodge Xo. 212.
On this visitation the Grand Lecturer, Brother Baker, was with me.
] instalkd the officers and we witnessed the work in the Third Degree.
] 11 this little country town we were very much surprised and gratified
to !°rnd that all the officers of the lmlgc appeared in full dress. \Ve
were t'qnally well satislicd with the excellent manner in which the

On June 8th. in company with the Grand Lecturer and Inspector

work in the degree w<\S performed.
On :\farch 12th I visited Oroville Lodge No. 103, at Oroville,
Cal.. and on this occasion the Hon. J. C. Muerman, Pas't Grand Master
of Idaho. was present and delivered a very interesting and instructive
address on his -:lfasonic experiences, particularly in the Philippine

Wm. A. Sherman of the 33d l\fasonic District, I paid an official visit
to Truckee Lodge Xo. 200. Nothing was left undone bv these energetic brethren to make our visit pleasant and profitable. .
_

On June 9th and 10th, at the im·itation of the Grand Master of
the .M.'. w:. Wm. ).I. David. I attended at Reno the celebrat10n of th; SOth· ~n.nivcr~ary of the organi?:ation of the Grand Lodge
Nevada. rhe ongmal eight lodges that formed the Grand Lodge of
Nevada ~verc all chartered by the Grand Lodge of California, so that
='Jevada is m truth and fact a child of this Grand Jurisdiction. I was
much p~eased to attend this celebration and thus accentuate insofar
as poss1bl: the feeling of genuine cordiality and fraternity tha't has
alw'.1ys existed between these two adjoining and clo~ely related Grand
bodies; I was much. impressed with the spontaneous cordiality of my
recept10n. A splendid banquet was given in my honor, in which more
th.an three hundred of the leading· Ma sons of N cvacla participated. you
will .reca~l.that the then Grand l\Iaster of Xeva<la, ]\[.'. vV.'. \Vm. JH.
David, \'tsited our Grand Lodge at its last annual communication. and
I trust that the interchange of official courtesies may continue, as it
must result m cementing the tit'~ that connect us and in promoti 11 uthe highest ideals of frittcrnalism.
"'
Nev~da,

J slands.
0;1 ).larch 26th I visited Traver Ledge at Kingshnrg; March 27th,
Hanford; and March 28th, Las Palmas Lodge at Fresno,. At each of
these district meetings there was a splendid attendance of enthusiastic
brethren. There. as elsewhere, there is no evidence of contention, all
working harmoniously to the common end-the advancement of the
best interests of Freemasonry in California.
On April 19th I ;1ttcndcd a get-together meeting of ;di the lodge;;.
of Contra Costa County, at the City of Antioch. More than three hundred :.rasons and their families assembled on that occasion at
the banquet table, and testified their loyalty to our great institution. A
program, participated in hy members from each of the Contra Costa
lodges, as wdl as the Cranrl Officers present, covered the entire field
of Ma sonic acti,·itit'>. On this occasion the Grand Orator. Judge
\Vastc. and the Crand Lecturer, Brother Dakcr, accompanied me.
On l\[ay 16th. in company with Past Grand Master \Veils, Grand
Orator vVastc, and the judiciary generally of Alameda County, I visited l\ losaic Lodge l\' o. 218 at Lh-ermore and witnessed· the conferring
of the Third Degree before a large gathering of Masons.
On 1\Jay 28th I visited Trinity Lodge No. 27 at \Vcaverville and
was splendidly cntcrtaincd by the brethren.
On ]\fay 30th it was my privilege to Yi sit \V cstcrn Star Lodge
.'.\To. 2 of Shasta, and this to my mind is the most historic spot in
Masonry in California. Although the old town has the appearance of
a deserted village, the lodge still retains a membership of over a hundred. There was a large assemblage of Masons and we held an impressive meeting in this lodge room, where Masonry passed its for-

mative period in California.

17

o!

~ommen~ing on the 15th day of J unc and extending to and indndmg the first day of July. J officially visited. in companv with the
Gra'.1d Lectu~er. the \Iasonie Districts from the 4Sth to tiie 62d inclusive, and if we may j udgc hy the attendance. the appearance and
character of those who attended, and the spontaneous manifestation of
~Iasonic spirit and l.oyalty exhibited at these meetings, then Masonry
m the south~rn po:t10n of the state is accomplishing all that might be
expected of 1t by 1ts most enthusiastic adherents.

•

On the evening of June 15th we visited the Masons of the 45th
Masonic District in Lindsay Lodge Xo. 416.
On the 16th we visited the lodges of the 46th Masonic District 111
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

On the 17th we visited the lodges of the 61st :Masonic District at
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338.
On the 18th we visited the lodges of the 60th Masonic District at
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348.
On the 19th we visited the lodges of the 56th Masonic District at
Lexington Lodge No. 104 at the City of El llfonte.
On the 20th we visited Consuelo Lodge No. 325 at the City of
Escondido.
On the 22d we visited the lodges of the 62d Masonic District at the
City of San Diego.
On the 23d we visited the lodges of the 54th :Yiasonic District at
Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
On the 24th we visited the lodges of the 55th Masonic District in
Pomona Lodge No. 246 at Pomona.
On the 25th we visited the lodges of the 57th ),fasonic District at
Whittier Lodge No. 323 at the City of Whittier.
On the 26th we visited the lodges of the 58th Masonic District in
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389 at the City of Long Beach.
On the 27th there was tendered the Grand Master a reception by
all the lodges of the City of Los Angeles.
On the 29th we visited the lodges of the 59th :Yiasonic District at
Santa Ana Lodge No. 341 in the City of Santa Ana.
On the 30th we visited the lodges of the 48th Masonic District at
Oxnard Lodge No. 341 in the City of Oxnard.
At San Diego the temple, less than five years old, was entirely
inadequate to accommodate the throng of enthusiastic Masons who
assembled there, and at the City of Los Angeles the reception tendered
. by the lodges of that city brought together about seven thousand Masons, their wives, mothers, daughters and sweethearts. It was a magnificent assemblage and was but another evidence of the thoroughly
demonstrated fact that what the Masons of the Queen City of the
Southland "undertake they do.''
On July 13th, in company with Past Grand ~faster Wells and
Grand Lecturer Baker, I attended a reception and banquet given by
Alta Lodge No. 333 at the town of Bridgeport. As this was the first
official visit that I had made to my home lodge since entering upon
the duties of Grand Master, the brethren spared no effort to make it
an entire success. I was much impressed by the fact that brethren
from remote parts of the county attended in such numbers as to make
the attendance represent almost the entire Masonic population of the
county.

HI

On July 30th I visited officially Elk Grove Lodge No. 173 at Elk
Grove on the occasion of the celebration of the SOth anniversary of
~ the constitution of that lodge. I was accompanied on this visitation
by the Senior Grand Warden, Brother Burnett, and the Grand Lecc
turer. More than two hundred Masons from the City of Sacramento
and vicinity motored to Elk Grove to be in attendance at this celebration. No stronger testimonial of the high esteem in which the members
of this old lodge were held was possible than this splendid outpouring
of their Masonic neighbors to honor them on reaching this half century
mark of useful endeavor.
On the 10th day of August, 1914, I attended a get-together meeting
of all the lodges of Humboldt County, at the City of Eureka, at an
open-air meeting in the beautiful park located in that northern city.
There was a large and enthusiastic attendance of Masons and their
wives, the occasion being on commemoration of the 60th anniversary
of the constitution of Humboldt Lodge No. 79. All the lodges in Humboldt County were represented at this assemblage, and an instructive
historical program had been prepared, participated in by those stalwart
pillars of Masonry in Northern California, Past Grand Masters Monroe and Hunter.
On the 21st of September I had the pleasure of visiting King
Solomon's Lodge No. 260, and witnessed the work of the Third Degree
conferred by my distinguished predecessor, \Villiam P. Filmer.
On the 30th of September I was officially received by that great
big-hearted Lodge, l\fission No. 169, which is not only the largest lodge
numerically in the jurisdiction, but is composed of splendid men and
;\lasons.
And only last night, October 12, the Lodges of the citv of San
Francisco tendered a magnificent reception to your Grand M;ster and
the memhers of Grand Lodge and their families, which affair was attended by some seven thousand enthusiastic Masons and their wives
and daughters.
Wednesday evening of this week, the "San Francisco Bodies" of
the Scottish Rite propose to hold a reception and entertainment in
honor of the Grand Officers and members of Grand Lodge and their
families, and it may be safely said at this time that the outpouring of
),fasons will be magnificent as to numbers, and the entertainment will
be fully in keeping with the reputation of the hosts.
On December 15. 1913. Deputy Grand Master Blech;oe convened
the Grand Lodge at Glendale and. laid the cornerstone of the Masonic
Temple in that city.
On December 19, 1913, Junior Grand Warden Francis V. Keesling
convened the Grand Lodge at San Luis Obispo and dedicated with

20

l'HOCEEDlKG:; OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

solemn ceremony the beautiful l\Iasonic hall of King David's Lodge
:'\o. 209.
On January 7, 1914, Deputy Graml '.\laster Bl~dsoe convened the
Crane! Lodge at the Masonic Temple at Los Angeles and concluctecl ~he
funeral of Past Graml '.\laster James A. Foshay, the ceremony bemg
held in the Congregational Church, the same builcling in which the
Cram! Loclgc met in 1912, ancl it was crowded to the very doors by
loving friends ;rnd hretliren who came to pay their last tribute of aff ccticn to one of God's noblemen.
On January 31, 1914. Deputy Grancl '.\faster nlcclsoc convened thC'
Crancl Loclgc at the City cf vVatts, and laicl the cornerstone of the public lihran· in that city.
On ;he 21st cla\· of '.\larch, 1914. Deputy Grand Master Bleclsoc
crnn·cncd the Grand. Lodge in the City of Calexico, ancl laicl the corncr,:tcnc of the Marnnic Hall in that city.
On Ma,· 16 1914. Past Grancl l\fastcr vVeller, with his usual im- '
]·, 11'<1 tl1e cor11''t·c.
. ._ .-. tone of the new Government Building at Pasadena, in the presence of a vast crowd of Masons and citizens generally.
On June 22. 1914, while in the city of San Diego. l\Irs. M_u'.'phey,
'.\]rs. Bahr and myself were i1witecl by Mme. Tingley to vtstt the
home at Point Loma. whrre a reception ancl entertainment in my honor
"·as prepared by the pupils of the Raja Yoga College. I was snrprised
to find at this institution about thirty resident Masons in good standing who acted as a reception committee upon my arrival at the Home.
1 °was ,·er,· much impressed with the character of the instruction that
is given t~ the pupils in this college. ,\ distinctly creditable ~rogram
\\·as presented for our entertainment and we all
on leav1'.1g that
we were indebted to '.\Ime. Tingl~y for a \'Cry profitable and mstl'l'ctivc afternoon.
On the 21st of September. Past '.\Taster Roderick C. Guyett, Inspector for the 34th District. convened Grand Lodge at Alturas, and
in the presence of a large assemblage lair! the cornerstone of the new
Courthouse at that place.
'.\f ,. last public fnnction was on the 10th of October, when T con,·eil<'d .Cram! Lodge at the City of Berkeley, and with the usual ceremonies of the craft. lai<l the cornerstone of the new Postofficc at
that city.
·
•
'
press1ve
tnanner,

fc!t

m:c1s10:-.;s
:\ ,·ery ]a 1·ge 11 11111bn of questions ha,·c been submitted to me dnrj11..- nl\' n·ar as Cram! '.\laster for decision. '.\lany of these irn·olve no
11 ~~,- p~i 1~c:plc of l;rn· and have been disposed of by simply directing the

21

Grand Secretary to communicate the conclusion of the Grand l\Iastcr
without the necessity of a formal written opinion. Considering the
magnitude of this Grand Jurisdiction, the questions arc well within the
bounds of what might naturally be expected and were of a character
evidencing upon their face a conscientious endeavor to obtain needed
information. I shall submit but a few of my decisions, and only such
as I think will be of interest to the craft and convey information on
subjects not clearly compassed by the present written laws.
I. I am asked whether property should be deeded to the trustees
of the lodge or to the Master or to the lodge directly. As this is an
important question, and one about which there has been considerable
confusion, I take the liberty of quoting in full the present statute of
the State of California on the subject, Statutes 1911, page 572.
"All unincorporated benevolent or fraternal societies or
associations are, and every lodge or branch of such society or
association is, hereby at•thorizcd and empowered without incorporation to purchase, receive, own, held, mortgage, manage and
sell, all such real estate and other property as may be necessary
for the business, purposes and objects of said society, association, or lodge. or branch; subject to the laws and 1·egulations
of said society or association, or lodge or branch, and of the
Grand Lodge thereof; and also to take and receive by will or
deed,. all property, not so necessary, and to hold the same until disposed of within a period of ten years from the acquisition thereof; provic!ed, that all conveyances transferring or in
anywise affecting the title to real estate owned or held by
such society or asscciation shall be executed by the presiding
officer and recording secretary under its seal. after a resolution duly adopted hy said society or association authorizing
the same."
This does away with the necessity for conveying to trustees and
the corresponding difficulty of keeping track of their st·ccessors, and
is such a sane and simple manner of conveying and recetvmg property that it seems to me it should be generally followed by the craft.

2. The Master issued and had served summons requiring the attendance of members at a stated meeting of his lodge, which some re'fused to obey. He asked my opinion as to his conduct and as to what
dispensation should be had with reference to the members who refused to obey the summons. I amwercd:
"f am disposecl tu think that it is nut the intention of the
l\[asonic Law that the summons should be issued for the purpose of procuring the attendance of members at either Special
or Stated '.\Ieetings of the Lodge. However, in this case the

22

23

PROCEEDINGS OJ!' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

summons having been issued and served, it was not the province of the members so required to appear to question either
the legality or the propriety of the issuance of the summons.
\Vhat further procedure should be taken in the matter is to
be determined in the wise discretion of the ]\faster. Personally
r doubt whether it should be advisable at this time to take any
action in the matter."

accused in this jurisdiction may be pronounced. The procuring of a
certified record of the trial in a foreign jurisdiction at our. own ex·
pense will be a matter of comity that need give us at this time na
senous concern.
To the end that there may be a uniformity in the status of all
transgressors of Masonic law, it seems to me that this legislation is
imperative. \V c should do aw<ly with the anomalous situation that
now prevails in this that a Master Mason may or may not he entitled
to the rights and privileges of Masonry, dependent on his situation
whether on one or the other side of a state line. T'he matter is capable
of sane and satisfactory solution, and it is our dutv to take the initiative to the end that there may be no further doubt when cases of the
character here disclosed arise in this jurisdiction.

3. Yolo Lodge No. 81 suspended Brother 'William Samuel \Vall,
upon a certified transcription of the trial record from Churchill Lodge
No. 26. located at Fallon, Xevada, and requested me to pass 11pon the
correctness of their action.
After a comiderable investigation of this subject I am enaUe to
discover in the Ma sonic J nrisprudencc of this Grand Jurisdiction where
the question here suggested has e\·cr been considered or determined.
It is a question of far-reaching importance and great concern not
only to the craft in this, lmt all other Grand Jurisdictions, and merits
serious reflection ancl definite and final determination. In the absence of precedent or affirmative legislation on the subject any con·
clusion I may reach will necessarily be largely suggestive and serve
merely to bring the matter to the attention of the Grand Lodge at its
next annual comnmnication for affirmative action.
V1/ c claim the right by constitutional enactment to regulate the
conduct of Masons residing or sojourning within our territorial jurisdiction, and in doing this we care not from whence they come or to
what jurisdiction they acknowledge allegiance. \Ve claim to exercise
the right to try them in the tribunals of the order for any Masonic
offense committed within our borders and to inflict such punishment
as is warranted by our laws. Of course, we do not contend that the
judgment of our tribunals have any binding force beyond the territorial limits of our Grand J urisdictio11. ·while this is true. in my
judgment, it would be a long step in the right direction if each Grand
Jursdiction claiming this right would incorporate in its fundamental
law affirmative enactment making immediately effective the conviction
of any of its non-resident membership in other jurisdictions; reserving, however, the right to finally adjudicate the matter so far as it
affects the permanent statns of the accnsed in this jurisdiction by procuring a transcription of the trial record from the foreign jurisdiction,
and letting it take tlw ;;ame course as is now prescribed for trial
records in our own jurisdiction.
ln uthcr \\'Ords, that we recognize as imnJ<:diatcly diccti\·e the
j11dgment pronounced in a foreign jurisdiction as determinative of th.:
slatus of the accnsctl until the next succeeding annnal commLmic;ition
of our own Grand Lodge, when final adjudication cif the status of the

At the same time and in this same connection the Grand Lodge
should outline a procedure for the restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, all Masons convicted of Masonic offense in foreign
jurisdictions.

In the case at bar I find no warrant in law for the action taken
by Yolo Lodge :t\' o. 81, in entering the judgment of conviction against
\Villiam Samuel \Vall, a member of that Lodge, upon the certified
record of his conviction in Churchill Lodge No. 26, of the State of
>l"evada, and the action of the Lodge in that respect is therefore disapproved.
4. The Master of a Lodge should not permit any member to enter
or retire after announcing the report of the committee and directing
the ballot, unless sickness or some other imperative reason should
he pleaded. It is clearly within the province of a Master to prevent
brethren from evading the plain provisions of the law by retiring to
the anteroom for that purpose. If the 'Master has reason to question
the ~ood faith of members retiring to the Tylers' room preceding or
pcndmg a ballot, he certainly would be acting within his discretionarv
powers in directing and compelling them to return to the lodgeroot;1
and j)articipate in the ballot. I do not believe it incumbent upon the
Master to inquire as to whether brothers are in the anteroom prior
to ordering a ballot, but he has no power to excuse a member from
voting who asks it, whether in the lodgeroom or in the anteroom.
5. Objection was made to the advancement of an entered ap. prenticc. A committee was appointed and reported adverselv which
report was approved by the lodge. Sub~equently, upon fu;ther investigation some members of the committee desired to reverse the
former finding and advance the candidate. Decided that it could not
be d6rie, that the candidate must await one fuH year before applying
for remaining degrees. Section 111 of the Constitution provides: "The

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

PROCEEDINGS OJ!' THE

24

decision was Jina! ;" and Section 111 ( J) says, "One denied adYancement
must wait a year before again applying''
6. The question is asked whether it is proper for a person not
a member of the Lodge to see its hooks, and whether the practice of
permitting Lodge books to be audited by a member of the fraternity
other than a member of the Lodge is justified under our law.

procedure of the Master in the matter was correct in literally following the Constitution, Part 4, Article l, Section 1.

It does not seem to me that there is anything to construe in that
section; the language is perfectly clear, and if the count made by your
Secretary is correct. and for the purpose of this judgment it must be
assumed to be correct, your ruling of the Master that it required a
majority vote of the members present to elect is manifestly correct.
In this connection it might be well to say that in making a count the
Master ought to take into consideration Section 3, Part 4, Article 1,
in determining the question as to what memhers are entitled to vote.
That section reading, "None but members in good standing whose
dues are paid shall be entitled to vote at an election."

So far as I have been able to investigate the matter, I am of the
opinion that it was not the intention of the Grand Lodge in disposing
of the matter referred to in Section 150 (K) of the Constitution, to
hole! that it was a ::\1asonic offense to permit a Master :\fason to ins1wct the books of a Lodge other than the one to which he belongs.
I am satisfied that the word "personal," ·as used in that section, means
:;ome person other than a }faster Mason. Of course, the record iu
the case referred to was destroyed in the great fire of 1906, and we
are unable to ascertain just what the nature of the charges were against
the Secretary referred to in that section, but must assume that W did
not refer to a Master Mason.

I conclude, that, taking these two sections together. it requires a
majority vote of the members present, who are entitled to vote, to
determine an election. To hold a11y other way would be to read
something into the Constitution that is not there at present. Where the
language is plain I see no reason for attempting any forced construction.

Y 011 would be committing no Masonic offense in ha Ying your
books inspected by a l\Iastcr l\Iason in good stanuing other than a
member of your Lodge.

9.
can see no objection to the Secretary of the Lodge donating
for social or charitable purposes, as he sees fit, such amount as the
Lodge allows him as compensation for his services as Secretary.

7.

Section 488 of Anderson's Manual provides:
"There is nothing unmasonic, or even reprehensible, in
holding a dancing party in a Masonic hall. Social festivities,
when properly conducted, do not desecrate the lodgeroom, it
being understood, of course, that members on such occasions
are not to be clothed as Masons."

1 take it that the same condition would prcyail with relation to
social card games, where no Yiolation of the state or municipal laws
is involved. It is a matter that is and should be left largely to the
wise discretion of the particular Lodge. And in the event that objection thereto should reach such proportions as to cause serious dissension in the Lodge, great care should be exercised in passing upon
the matter.

Where it j:; apparent that there are members who are seriously
and conscientiously opposed to these pastimes taking place in the lodgeroom, their objections should be seriously considered, to the end that
the harmony of the Lodge and the best interests of the fraternity may
not be sacrificed.
8. At an election of officers the Master directed the Secretary
to count the number of members present, and he declared that in order
to elect, a candidate must receive a majority of the members present
as shown by the count. This act was questioned, and I held that the

10. A brother who is named in the charter of the Lodge as its
Master, and serves until the end of his term and until his successor
is elected and qualified, 'although that be but two or three months, is
under Section 224 of the Constitution entitled to the title of Past Master of this jurisdiction.

JLLINOIS RELJEF FUND.

On date of December 20th the Grand 11aster of Illinois, Henry T.
Burnap, wrote:
"Referring to the contribution of one thousand dollars tendered by the Grand Lodge of California A. F. & A. M. to the
fund to the relief of the brethren of this Grand Jurisdiction
who suffered and, in many cases were rendered homeless and
destitute, as a result of the floods which devastated a large
area in the southern part of our jurisdiction,
in the present year, I am directed hy the Grand Lodge of Ancient Free
and Accepted :\fasons of the State of Illinois lo return to your
Grand Lodge the amount of this contribution with expressions
of grateful thanks and assurances of the highest appreciation
of the generous and fraternal offer of assistance bv the Grand
Lodge of California."
-

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To which I replied:
"Your favor of December 20th, in re returning contribution of one thousand dollars, made by the Grand Lodge of
California, for the relief of the brethren of your jurisdiction
who were rendered homeless and destitute by reason of the
great floods that devastated a large portion of your state in
the early part of this year. and in which you say that the generous contribution of the constituent
of your Grand
Jurisdiction has left you in possession of a large unexpended
balance and that under such circumstances you feel that you
would ~ot be justified in further retaining the contribution of
this Grand Lodge, has been referred to me by the M.' · vV .. ·
Past Grand Master Filmer, for consideration.
"It is gratifying to learn that the responses of the brethren
of your jurisdiction were so generous as to leave no room f.or
contributions from sister jurisdictions, and your Grand J unsdiction is certainly to be congratulated upon this magnificent
demonstration of true l\fasonic benevolence. However, this
result is so manifestly in accord with the traditions of our institution . that we would not be justified in saying that it caused
us surprise.
"In behalf of the Grand Lodge of California, I accept the
return of our proffered contribution, and permit me to express
the sincere hope that no similar fatality may ever again befall
you or any other Grand Jurisdiction, and also to assure you
that we shall ever in the future hold ourselves ready to respond
to the call of distress from whatever jurisdiction the unfortunate appeal may come."

To this communication Grand :\faster Burnap replied:
"I have vour recent letter in acknowledgment of the receipt of the ;eturn of the contribution of the Grand Lodge of
California to our Flood Relief Fund.
"I thank you for your generous expressions of good will
and join with you in the hope that no similar calamity will
soon call for charitable action by our great fraternity."
ENDOWMl(NT FUND AND MASONIC HO:\!ES

1 feel a vital and continuing interest in the success of our Endowment Fund project. There is a well-defined sentiment, amounting
almost to a conviction, that properly and intelligently directed effort
will result in interesting well-to-do Masons in this jurisdiction in the
founding of a permanent endowment fund for the maintenance of the
Masonic Homes at Decoto and San Gabriel. It is our desire to es-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

tablish a million dollar fund, the interest on the investment of which
alone is to be used for the maintenance of om Homes.
This plan was formally put in operation about four years ago.
and a large committee was appointed to spread the gospel of endowment and swell the funds to the desired proportions. As to the ability
and Masonic devotion of this committee there can he no question;
·nevertheless, the result of their labors have not been as encouraging
as the optimism of the committee anticipated, if we may judge of their
attitude from the concluding sentence to be found in their first report
to the Grand Lodge, wherein they say: HOne million dollars will do
this, and with the present membersh;p of approximately fifty thousand,
the raising of the desired sum ought to be a work of love and occupy
no greatly extended time."
Several thousand dollars in cash have been actually added to the
nucleus fund of thirty thousand dollars in existence when the committee was appointed. This, howewr, is not evidence that the work
of the committee has been entirely unavailing. It is well known that
·even the very small amount of publicity given to the movement has
produced beneficial results. Reports have been received from various
parts of the state .that indicate that the Homes are being remembered
by Masons in testamentary disposition of their property.
This is exactly the fruition contemplated by the originators of the
plan, although we opine that such purpose was not generally understood by the craft. It could not be reasonably expected that such
a fund could be accumulated in a day, a year, or a generation, nor
was it to be hoped that cash donations effective immediately would
form any considerable portion of the fund. If the plan is to succeed
it inust be given intelligent publicity. \Ve must educate the membership of this Grand Jurisdiction, not only as to the needs but also
as to the character of our Homes. Any ::\fason who will take the
opportunity to investigate will find onr California Homes second to
none in existence.
It has been our pleasure to visit the Homes repeatedly. and never
have we visited San Gabriel and looked into the happy, cheerful and
contented faces of the sixty inmates, without feeling that if there were
no other excuse for the perpetuation of this great fraternity, its contiimed existence is amply justified by the splendid results there exemplified. In the atmosphere of that institution one cannot but feel
the ihSpiration of the fruition of the noble purposes and the presence
of a gratified and protecting Divinity. And it is a significant fact
that the children who have gone forth into the world from the institution have universally made good and reflected credit on the parent
institution. And the work done at the Home at Decoto is equally as
important, equally as imperative from the standpoint of duty and re-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sponsibility, and should appeal to our generosity and benevolence with
compelling force.
The educational propaganda in furtherance of this Endowment
Fund should be so thorough and effective that no well-to-do Mason
in this jurisdiction should he unmindful of the hopes and aspirations
of the Fraternitv in this respect to the end that, when the time shall
come for him t~ make final disposition of his worldly effects he must
conscientiouslv make or refuse to make provision for this beneficent
relief work. .Just how this is to be efkcted cannot be detailed ~t t!1is
time and within the limits of the medium afforded for the pubhcauon
of this statement.
It may be suggested. however, that an inexpensive method might
he devised wherehy the Secretaries of the various Lodges be required
to mail literature appertaining to this suhject matter in connection
with such notices as arc now required to be sent out in due course
of Lodge business; the literature to be prepared and furnished by
the Endowment Fund Committee. It is needless to say, of course,
that the establishment of a sufficient fund would do away with the
per capita tax now imposed for the support of the Homes, and would
enable us to extend onr relief and charitable W<)rk in other directions
where imperative calls of necessity at this time go largely unheeded.

in the Board being imposed on by unworthy members, who are
known as such by the respecth·e Lodge to which he belongs.
"The fact that a :i\Iason can belong to several Lodges at
the same time,, also works for frauds and unworthy men.
"The granting of dimits and renewing them ad infinitum
puts us in a position where we do not know how to act, we
wish to call yoi:r attention to a recent case:
"On or about K ovemhcr 10th, 1913, Brother Thos. 'Wyse
Brymer called at this office requesting relief for himself and
family. He
a <limit from Operative Lodge No. 47,
Dundee, Scotland, dated 1905. He stated that he had been
in San FranciscD since 1906 and had never affiliated, nor ap·
plied for affiliation.
"He was refused relief because according to our laws he
was not in good standing.

RELIEF WORK TROUBLE

Secrdary Leo Bruck. of the Masonic Relief Corps of San Francisco, wrote me substantially as follows:
"I have heen instructed to bring to your attention the
injustice done by the Lodges in the Grand Jurisdiction of Scotland, to this Board,
the issuing of life memberships to
most even" Ma son for a nominal fee of one to two guineas,
equal to $S or $10. and allowing them to travel over the world
and ],e a charge on the brethren of other jurisdictions.
"In the past we have had a great many Masons from Scotland, common laborers, sailors and men of that class, call on
this Board as soon as they land in this city, asking for relief,
and from the way it is generally demanded, we presume that
thcv are used to doing that in other places.
. "A request for reimbursement from the Lodges of which
these men are members does not even result in an answer;
we understand from previous correspondence with the Grand
Secretary of Scotland, that Lodges there do not ask for nor
expect to give reimbursements for Masonic charity. but failure
on the part of Lodges to answer communications often results

"On January 19th, 1914, he applied again for relief, this
time prcducing a new dimit dated December 9th, 1913, which
he stated he received at his request, without paying anything
from his Lodge in Scotland."
On February lith I wrote as follows:
"Col. Robert· King Stewart,
Jf.·.

iv:. Grand Master of ;'l,faso11s,

Freemasons Hall, Edinburgh, Scotland.
I feel constrained to call
your attention to the accompanying communication addressed
to me by the
of the Masonic Board of Relief of the
City of San Francisco.
"This Grand Jurisdiction has uniformly exercised the utmost liberality in the disposition of Masonic charities and relief. \Ve endeavor to take care of every worthy, destitute Mason who brings himself within the pale of our relief laws liberally construed. It is our policy that no deserving Mason
shall suffer privation and want while sojourning within our
jurisdiction. \Ve do this without imposing any requirements
that the jurisdictions from whence come these unfortunate
brethren shall
in any degree, but, nevertheless, with
the confident assurance that Masonic organizations, wheresoever located, will strictly adhere to the primary tenets of our
institution.
"1\I.'. W.'. Sm AND BROTHER:

"We sincerely trust that there is no warrant in the law,
or, in fact, in your Grand Jurisdiction, for the practices specified in this letter. Certainly we are entitled to an acknowledg-

29

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ment of the receipt of our communications acquainting your
brethren of the fact that advancements have been made in this
jurisdiction to Masons owing obedience to your Grand Lodge.
This is absolutely essential in order to prevent impositions.
Again, we cannot bring ourselves to a conviction that your
Grand Jurisdiction sanctions the doctrine that your dependent
brethren should be granted gratuitous <limits in order that
they may come within the letter of our laws as petitioners for
our assistance.
"We feel confident that we have but to call your attention
to this grave matter to be promptly advised that there is no
warrant for the delinquencies in this respect complained of by
the Secretary of the San Francisco Board of Relief, to be
found either in the practices or legislation of your Grand Jurisdiction. It is apparent that this would accomplish a patent
fraud on our generosity. vVe would very much appreciate a
response to this communication clearing up what we feel must
be misapprehension, and hopefully look forward to an uninterrupted continuance of the friendly relationship that has heretofore characterized the intercourse between our Grand Jurisdictions.
"With assurance of my profoundest esteem, I remain,
sincerely and fraternally yours,
"JOHN D. MURPHEY,
Grand Master."
To this date the only response we have received from that communication is dated Edinburgh, March 25th, 1914, Grand Secretary's
Office.
"John W. Murphey,
Most Worshipful Grand Master,
San Francisco, California.
"DEAR Sm AND M.'. W.'. BRO.: I am desired by our Most
Worshipful Grand Master, Brother Colonel Robert King Stewart, to acknowledge receipt of your letter of 17th February, together with communication addressed to you by the Secretary
of the Masonic Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco,
and to advise you that these communications are engaging the
attention of our Grand Committee.
DAVID REID,
"Yours fraternally,
Grand Secretary."

31

As ample time has passed since receiving that communication, it
would seem to me that this Grand Lodge should take some action
relative to the matters specified in the communication of the Secretary of the San Francisco Board of Relief.
SALJ\M FIR!\
Immediately upon learning of the disastrous fire at Salem, Mass.,
I directed the Grand Secretary to forward the following message to
the Grand Master :
"Melvin M. Johnson,
Grand Master of Masons,
Boston, Mass.
"Our Grand Master, John D. Murphey, extends his sympathy to the sufferers at Salem, and wishes to know if the
Grand Lodge of California can be of any monetary assistance in helping to alleviate their distress. If so, command us."
To which the following reply was received:
"Boston, July 8, 1914.

"Mr. Harry S. Johnson,
Asst. Grand Secy. of California,
San Francisco, Cal.
"DEAR SIR AND BRO.: On behalf of Grand Master Johnson, who is absent from the city during most of the current
month, I desire to return thanks for the kindly offer of assistance from your Grand Lodge. The Masonic Apartments at
Salem were not touched by the fire, and while in all some
eighty members of the Craft met with loss in a greater or less
degree, there appears to be no suffering among them that we
are not able to relieve ourselves, and we are, therefore, with
all due appreciation of the good wishes of those in other jurisdictions, proposing to take care of our own without calling for
their help.
"Please rest assured that in case of necessity we should
accept freely what is so freely offered, and should respond to
the needs of others in their distress just as heartily as if we
did not receive at the present time assistance from our brethren
outside of Massachusetts.
"Please see that our thanks are properly rendered to your
Grand Master.
THOMAS w. DAVIS,
"Yours fraternally,
Recording Grand Secretary."

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
THE MASONJC EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS.

The Masonic Employment Bl1reaus of Oakland, Los Angeles and
San Francisco are doing splendid work and deserve the encouragement of the fraternity, employment for several hundred men having
been procured l;y means of these bureaus both in San Francisco and
Los Angeles.
The vitalizing work which they have accomplished anti are performing in behalf of those whom misfortune and misadventure have
made the objects of our bene,·olcnt consideration should be brought
home to the Masons in this jurisdiction in such a way _that its importance will be understood and appreciated. The relief extended in
this jurisdiction through the regular channels provided by the great
Fraternity to which we arc proud to acknowledge allegiance is shared
by people representing enry civilized nation on earth. We care for
deserving l\Iasons and those dependent t:pon them, regardless of creed
or nationality. and without imposing any conditions as to reimbursement. This has not invariably resulted in good. Tt has resulted in
temporarily relieving distress, hut too often at the fearful cost of
breeding chronic idleness and impoverishing vital forces. It has been
forcibly impressed upon us that our charities have been too frequently
bestowed upon those whose only claim to our generosity has Leen
found in their ability to impose upon us hy misrepresentation.
We have encouraged dependency by indiscreet giving, and this
for the reason that no other method of alleviating distress had been
inaugerated. It was at this point that your splendid organization
stepped in and proposed a solution that was at once sane and saving.
It saves not only money, but, what is immeasurably more important,
it saves men by enabling them to maintain their self-respect and manhood, by affording them an opportunity through their own efforts to
provide for themselves, thus substituting independence for dependrnce.
There is nothing more humiliating to a man than to know that
he is dependent upon the benevolence of others. and there is nothing
more demoralizing to a spineless man than the knowledge that in
times of adversity he is certain of adequate provision for his maintenance. Security from want. by means of the activities of others, always breeds indifference. On the other hand there is nothing more
exalting than the consciousness that under the most desperate circumstances one has been able to work out his own salvation,
The efforts of these bodies to establish a medil1m through which
able-bodied Masons mav be enabled to overcome adversity without
asking charity are entitl~d to the encouragement and enthusiastic support of all right-thinking men, and particularly of all Masons, who
arc employers of labor in any of its branches.

33

It is the imperative duty of brethren in this jurisdiction to mm1mize the labors of these bodies in every way possible. Masons owe
it to them, owe it to themselves, and owe it' to the institution to help
them to help the distressed in this jurisdiction, and any failure of
loyalty in this respect is a failure to conscientiously perform the obligations they have assumed in the Order.
Let us hope that they will be able to broaden the scope of their
activities to such an extent that whenever a worthy, able-bodied Mason shall apply for assistance, he will Le given an operative implement and afforded an opportunity to use it.

TE~IPL£

ASSOCL\'flO:-;f

It is incumbent upon this Grand Lodgc, in conjunction with other
:\Iasonic bodies who are purchasers and owners of stock in the Masonic Temple Association, to devise some means of liquidating the
outstanding indebtedness. At the present time the entire income of
the property is not sufficient to pay the interest on the outstanding
obligations amounting to approximately $300,000, together with the
running expenses of the Temple. Stockholders of the Association,
Masons and Masonic bodies, have invested more than $700,000, from
which they receive no returns whatever. On the contrary, they arc
compelled to make good the difference caused by the failure of the
rentals to pay interest and running expenses.
By taking up the remaining less than one-third of the stock and
liquidating the indebtedness. the stockholders would immediately receive a return of 1Yz per cent on their whole investment, or an income of 4.Yz per cent on the amount necessary to raise in order to
cancel the indebtedness.
The faith of this Grand Lodge is pledged to the ultimate extingl1ishment of this indebtedness, and this it must do.
It requires no argument to show that ultimately this money must
come from the membership at large, by means of assessments on the
constituent lodges, unless the lodges themselves become the purchasers
in their own right. If the Grand Lodge takes up all of this remaining stock with funds supplied by the subordinate lodges, the entire
returns from rentals will go into the treasury of the Grand Lodge.
On the other hand, if the Masons and Masonic bodies' stockholders in
the Association, and the Lodges that have not yet subscribed for stock,
will take up this stock, they themselves will be the beneficiaries of
future returns. As the Lodges must ultimately pay this money, it
seems to me that it would be the wise thing to subscribe directly for
the stock rather than be compelled ultimately to pay for it through

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

assessments, and thus automatically cover the amount of all returns
into the treasury of the Grand Lodge as its assets.
I have great faith that the no distant future will find the entir~
rental space of this building producing revenue. The buildings actually in course of construction in the immediate vicinity, the completion of the }fonicipal Railway on Van ::\ ess Avenue, are hopeful signs
in this direction. 'vVlwn the entire building is rented, its revenues will
immediatelv make the invcstmeut a 4 per cent proposition. \Vhy should
the stockh~lders, owners of more than two-thirds of this great investment, permit the entire income to go to persons who have advanced
Jess than one-third of the money expended in the erection and furnishing of the Temple? Tt seems to me that it is unwise and indefensible as a financfr,l policy.
Aside from the business aspect, I think that as a matter of sentiment every Lodge in California should own some stock in the Temple
Association. The Temple wao erected to reflect credit on this great
fraternal organization, and it fully lives up to that purpose. There is
no Lodge in this state that would have sanctioned erecting anything
less imposing and inspiring-a credit to the fraternity and an ornament to the city, and the very Lodges that now refuse to subscribe
for any of the stock would have been the first to denounce a discreditable structure.
I sincerely trust that some means may be devised for the solution
of this important question in such a way that outsiders may not continue to enjoy all the revenues of the Temple for generations to come,
and whereby the owners of more than two-thirds of the stock in this
enterprise may be enabled to net some return for their investment,
however small that may be.
FUNl'.RALS

A matter of serious concern to I\fasons, particularly those in large
cities. is the time unnecessarily lost in attending funerals of deceased
brothers. The present method requiring Lodges to be formally opened
before attending a Masonic funeral consumes much time and entails
a great amount of inconvenience. It seems to me that the practice now
in'· vogue in some Eastern jurisdictions of permitting the Master to
call his Lodge members together at the place designated for the funeral,
there put on the proper
and conduct the funeral,
without the necessity of a formal
of the Lodge, would be a
wise solution of this question: and I recommend that the laws be
amended in such a manner as to permit the inauguration of this practice in this Grand Jurisdiction.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35

PROCJ.;DUR( FOR RECOGKJZJ:-IG VJSlTJNG BRETHREN

As during the
two years there will be manv Masons visit!ng in California, hailing from jurisdictions not specifically recog111zed by our Grand Lodge, who may fairly he entitled to visit our
Lodge.s and he recognized as .\Iasons, I have appointed the following
committee:
M:. vv:. EDWARD H. Hc\RT,

;vr:. vV:. \V1LLIA:1r P. F1LM£1i,

y:. w:. JOHN

to formulate some rule or procedure whereby our Lodges may be
advised as to who should be admitted, and have requested them to
make a report of their conclusions in such form and at such time as
may be available for presentation to this Grand Lodge.

The Trustees of the Masonic Homes and the Relief Boards in the
s~veral. cities of the state have prepared and presented for your constderation full and complete reports covering their activities during the
past Masonic year, thereby rendering it unneeessary for me in this
report to deal to any extent with their affairs. I commend the reports submitted by them for your thoughtful consideration.

FUNDS

. The amount, disposition, distribution and character . of the funds
of the Grand Lodge will he found fully detailed in the reports of the
Gra:id Treasurer and the Grand Secretary. No incident has occurred
durmg the year to call for any extraordinary expenditures of the funds
~: th~s ?ra:id. L~dge.' Th.e financial condition of the Lodges generally
. this JUnsd1ct1on is satisfactory. Only two Lodges have asked as;istance of the Grand Lodge <luring the year, and upon investigation a
ull report as to the financial condition, amount of dues and fees and
a full st~tement of expenditures, I concluded that one of these Lodges
was entitled to assistance, and I accordingly directed the Grand Secre·~~ry to draw warrant in its favor for the amount
which action
1
;
no doubt in due time he presented to the finance committee. The
u.es of the other Lodge being only six dollars per annum did not
ev1den.ce a su ff'1c1ent
·
·
..
. part to provide for its
' neces
d1spos1t1011
on its
sary. expenditures to justify me in extending Grand Lodge relief.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

36
~!ASONJC

BUlLlllNG AT P.\N:\M A PACll'lC EXPOSITION GROU:-!DS

Jn response to many suggestions that the :\lasonic bodies of California should erect a lmilding and
for its maintenance on the
Fair Grounds of the Panama Pacific Exrwsition during the next year,
T caused to be called together the executive officers of the various
:\fasonic bodies of this state for the purpose of inviting a full discussion of the subject matter. At the time and place agreed upon
there was practically a full representation of all the Masonic bodies
in California, and after a free and full discussion the consensus of
opinion was that the financial condition of the several Masonic bodies
was such that thev did not feel justified in recommending the expenditure ncccssars: for the construction of such a building.
Other propositions were submitted to me looking to the erection
of a building on the fair Grounds by Eastern Grand Jurisdictions,
hut after a great deal oi correspondence back and forth, no tangible
results were accomplished and the entire matter was dropped.

NA'tlONAL GRAND LODGE OF FRANCE

It was with nrnch pleasure we were advised some time since of
the organization of a new Masonic body in France, known as The
National Grand Lodge of France, which organization was perfected
largely through the good offices and efforts of the Grand Lodge of
England. This newly-organized body complies strictly with our views
of ,vhat constitutes Masonry. It requires that the holy Bible shall
always be open upon the altar when the Lodge is open; that the Lodge
shall alwavs be opened and closed with an invocation to the Great
Architect ~f the lJniverse; that no religious or political discussions
will be permitted in the Lodge; that the Lodge as such will not take
part in any political affair, but that every indivi<lual brother will preserve complete liberty of opinion and action; that only brethren who
are recognized as trnc hrcthrcn by the Grand Ledge of England will
be received in Lodge.
I recommend that the Independent National Grand Lodge of France
he formally recognh:ed.

CONCLUSION

In bringing to a close this memorandum of my year's stewardship
as chiei executive of this great fraternity, I can in truth say that I
have heen enabled to touch only a few of the high places of Masonic
activity that call for the conscientio11s attention of your Grand Mas-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

37

ter. Elevated to what I regard as the highest elective office within the
gift of this or any oth<'r hody of men within the confines of this Grand
Jurisdiction, I entered upon the performance of its exalted duties with
a keen appreciation of its difficulties and its responsibilities. \Vith an
abiding faith in the fundamental principles of fret" l\fasonry, I have
home to the craft in a straightforward. unostenendeavored to
tatious manner, and without any attempt at oratorical display, some
of the practical things that Masonry is
in this state at this time.
In this work I have had the efficient and cordial co-operation of my
fellow Grand Officers, as well as the faithful assistance and counsel
of the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts.
'l'o the Grand Secretary, John \Vhicher, and the Grand Lecturer, '!'hos. ]. Baker, with whom my association has been most intimate and cordial, I experience great pleasure in extending my heartfelt thanks. 'l'he Grand Lodge is fortunate in possessing two such
efficient officers and successive Grand Masters are to be congratnlated that in their arduous duties they will find these two faithful servants ready, willing and able to minimize their cares and responsibilities. Each of these officers has been of incalculable assistance to
me in my work. Brother \Vhichcr, notwithstanding the inconsolable
affliction that befell him in the loss of his devoted wife and helpmate, has insisted upon remaining steadfastly at his post of duty. In
his sorrow he has the intense sympathy of every member of the Grand
Lodge, as well as that of the membership of the state at large, and in
performance of the duties of his high office he has the good will and
confidence of the whole fraternity.

The Deputy Grand :\faster appointed the following
Committee upon Grand ::\laster's address: \Valter F.
Haas, Geo. J'd. Hardenbrook, }fervyn J. Neuberg.
The Grand l\laster then announced the appointment
of the following Committees:
On Charters: J. Claude Perry, \Villiarn R Flint., I.
D. Bluxome, Joseph H. Stephens, X. J. \\' eirzeniJerg.
On By-laws: Henry Ascroft, George L. \Veils, Egbert C. Bangs, \:V. E. \Vood, George Carson.
The Grand Secretary reported that the Chairman of
the Committee of Correspondence, Past Grand ::\faster
Edward H. Hart. was unable to present his report at this

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGT<; OF CALJFOH.NIA

time, and Brother Hart was given leave to present his
report to the Crancl Secretary at a later date. to he
printed in the official prnceecling·s of the Crancl Lodge.

GR,\?\D TREASCRER'S REPORT.
The Grand Treasurer presented the annnal report of
his office as follows:

Assets, July 31, 1914.

Balance on hand (Union T'rnst
Seven 6% Blue Lake \\Tater Co. bonds ({tl $ll0....$
Six 4 % Southern Pacific Railroad bonds @ $93 ... .
Nine 5% Cal. Gas and Electric Co. bonds @ $95..
Eight 5% Pacific Tel. and Tel. Co. bonds @ $100..
Two 5% L. A. Gas and Electric Co. bonds @ $93 ..
27,500 shares Masonic Temple Association @ $10..

11,807.98
7,700.00
5,580.00
8,550.00
8,000.00
1,860.00- 31,690.00
275,000.00

Total assets .................................................................. .

To the M.'. iv:. Grand Lodge af California:

39

...$318,497.98

1'he undersigned herewith sllbmits his account of the receipts and
expcnditllres of the Grand Lodge for the past year.

The Grand Treasurer reports that since closing his books for the
past fiscal year he has received :

The Grand Treasurer hi account with the Grand Lodge for the Fiscal
Year Ending July 31, 1914.

From the Grand
.......$61,149.15
Interest on seven Blue Lakes \\Tater Co. bonds........................
210.80
Interest on two Los Angeles Gas and Electric bonds.
S0.00

GENERAL Fl:N'D.
Total ........................ .

RECf.IP'rS.

Balance on hand as per last annual report, July 3L 1913. ........$16.509.25
662.44
Received interest on bank
60,613.70
Received from Grand Secretary.................... ..
6,000.(;Q
Received on bonds redeemed ......................... ..
Received interest on bonds, as follows:
Blue Lakes Water Co .................................. $420.00
California Gas and Electric Co ................... 400.00
Southern Pacific Railroad..... ....... .. .......... 240.00
Stockton Gas and Electric Co ...................... 540.00
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Co ........ 350.00
Los Angeles Gas and Electric Co.. ............ 50.00--2,000.00

.$61,409.15

MASONIC Hmm GEXERAL FUND TO JUI,Y 31, 1914.
RECF.JPTS.

Balance on hand, as per last report, Sept. 4, 1913
$ 14,404.05
Received from per capita tax for year 1913 ........$ 50,257.00
From sundry sources .........
............. ... 7,684.32
From Secretary Masonic Home .................
8,068.84
From Masonic Board of Relief...........
. ... .
90.00
Interest on bank deposits ............................................
875.98
Total receipts ....................................................... .

66,976.14

69,276.14

Total receipts for year ....................................................... .

Total receipts, i11cludi11g balance September 4, 1913
Total receipts, including balance on hand last annual report .................... .

EXPENDITCRES.

EXPEKDITURES.

Paid Endowment Fund ............................................ $
\\Tarrants

Paid, as per Warrants 1 to 216 ........................................$68.293.80
Paid for Cal. Gas and Electric Co. bonds ....$1,855.28
Paid for Pacific Tel. and Tel. Co. bonds .... 1,928.33
Paid for L. A. Gas and Eiec. Co. bonds .... 1,900.00-- 5,683.61

Home Building Fund ................................................. .
Home Building Fund (amount overdrawn)
Total expenditures ....... ".. ··

Total expenditures ..................... .

$73,977.41
Balance on hand, July 31,

Balance on hand July 31, 1914 (Union Trnst

....$ 81,380.19

.......$11,807.98

305.50
37,115.55
11,986.31
1,295.39
50,702.75
30,677.44

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

40

41

MASONIC HOME E?\DOWMENT FU?\D TO JULY 31, 1914.
RECElPTS.

MASONIC HOME BUILDING FUND.
RECEIPTS.

$ 25,128.50

Received per capita tax for year 1913 ..
From Masonic Home General Fund ..

....$ 11,986.31

Interest on bank deposits .....
.. ................ .
From Masonic Home General Fund (overdrawn)

474.25
1,295.39
13,755.95

Total receipts ............... ..
Total receipts, including balance on hand for 1913

... . ..$ 38,884.45

Total receipts ............ ..

6,421.95

Total receipts, including balance on hand last report ..............$ 9, 112.86

EXPENDITt:RES.

Paid warrants _

Balance on hand, September 4, 1913 .............................................. $ 2,690.91
Received interest on bank deposits .........................$
50.70
From various sources .....
..................
2,830.50
From bonds redeemed .....
...................
2,075.00
Interest on bonds:
City of Santa Barbara
.......$1,028.10
Pacific Tel. and Tel. Co ................... 250.00
City of San Diego ........
87.65
City and County of San Francisco
75.00
City of Richmond ............. ..
25.001,465.75

................. . ...........$ 38,884.45

EXPENDlTL'RES.

Paid for City and County of San Francisco bonds
County of Orange bonds ............... .
City of Richmond bonds
City of Richmond bonds

MASO::\'IC HOJ\IE GE't\ERAL FUND.

$1,018.00
5,051.42
1.036.44
1,026.00

.........$ 30,677.44

Balance ....

Total expenditures ............... ..

$ 8,131.86

Bank balances :
....$

Bank of Italy _
Bank of Italy .
Bank of Italy ....
Los Angeles Trust and Savings Bank .....
Total bank balances, July 31, 1914.....

Balance on hand, July 31, 1914 (Bank of Italy) .....................$

3,589.11
892.16
11,196.17
15,000.00

Assets Masonic Home Endowlllcnt Fund:

...........................$ 30,677.44

The Grand Treasurer also reports that since the commencement of
the present fiscal year he has received from the Grand Secretary the
following amounts, August 1 to October 9, 1914:
Home Maintenance Fund .
Home Building Fund _
Total .........

Balance on hand ............... .............................. .................
...$
21 41h% City of Santa Barbara bonds@ $537.50.... $11,287.50
10 40% City of Santa Barbara bonds @ $1,000.... 10,000.00
2 41h% City of San Diego bonds @ $975.......
1,950.00
5 5% Pacific Tel. & Tel. bonds @ $1,000...
5,000.00
2 5% City and County of S. F. bonds @ $1,000.... 2,000.00
5 5% County of Orange bonds @ $1,000................ 5,000.00
2 5% City of Richmond bonds at $1,000.......
2,000.00

981.00

37,237.50

............ $ 53,179.00
.......

981.00

26,589.50

Premiums paid, as per last report........
Premiums paid on bonds purchased since
last report ..............................................................

337.98

Total premiums ........................................ ..

434.84

96.86

... $ 79,768.50
434.84

Total assets, July 31, 1914................................................................. $ 38,653.34

42

43

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GlL\NU LOlJGE OF C.\LIFOHNlA

The Grand Treasurer also reports that since the commencement of
the present fiscal year he has recciyed the sum of $2.29 for the l\Iasonic
Home Endowment Fund.
Respectfully submitted.

:\lay 2, 1914-La Puente Lodge, at Puente, Los Angcks county;
May 4, 1914-Torrancc Lmlge. at Torrance, Los Angeles county;
"'\fay 21, 1914~--::'lfonnt Diablo Lodge, at Concord. Contra Costa
county;
May
1914-Park Lodge, at San Francisco;
June 2, 1914--Van Xnys Lodge, ;;t Van 1'\uys, L••s .\n.~dcs county;
August 4, 1914-::\Tontel:ello Lorlgc, at ::\Tontchcllo, Los Angeles
county;
August 24, 1914-San Pasqual Lodge. at Pasadena, Los c\ngeks
county.
This makes a tntal of three hurnlrcrl and sixty six Lodges now
under the jnrisdiction of our Cram! Lodge.
The membership one year ago was 50.257. Jt is nnw 53.179. a net
gain of 2,922. There were initiated :l,592; passed 3.538; raised
affiliated 1,223; restored 133; withdrawn 856: snspcndcd for non-payment of dues 532; expelled or suspended ior umnasonic conduct 16;
died 1,012.

\V:-1. P. FILMER.
Grand Treasurer.

which \Vas rcierrerl to the Committee n11 Finance.

GIL\l\D SECRET"\RY'S REPORT.
The Gra n<l Secretary presented his annual report as
follows:
To the Jt:. rv:. G1wul Lodge of
Bowing in hmnhlc submission to the decree of the gre-at God in
whose hands arc all our destinies, and with grateful thanks to !he many
brethren and friends whose expressions of sympathy and hope buoyed
me in the dark hours when the wife who had been my companion from
tl1e days of my youth-my chum and adviser-was called to the Great
Beyond. I present my annual report with some apology for having been
absent from office duly a part of the time when otherwise I should
have been at the helm. But I am persuaded that the brethren of Grand
Lodge appreciate the difficulties under which the husiness ot the year
has been
and I can say with the Psalmist. "Surely goodness and
mercy shall follow me all the days of my life."
At the close of the Annual Communication of 1913 there were 354
chartered Lodges on the roll of Grand Lodge. and one Lodge (Standard) under dispensation. Since then, by order of the Grand ]\faster,
dispensations to form nc\v Lodges have been issued from this ofiice as
follows (including Standard) :
October 3, 1913-Stanclard Lodge:. at Oakland, Alameda county;
October
county;

22, 1913-Coronatlo

Lodge, at

Coronado, San

Diego

October 27, 1913-Blackmer Lodge, at San Diego, San Diego
county;
December 8, 1913-Schofield Lodge, at Schofield Barracks, Leilihua,
Territory of Hawaii;
December 15, 1913-Carpintcria Lodge, ;it Carpinteria, Ventura
county;
April 6, 1914--\Vilshire Lodge, at Los Angeles, Los Angeles county;

of trial recorch have been received from the following
and Grievances:
Lodges and referred to the Committee on
Case No. 145-Suspcndccl by Solano Lodge .:.io. 229;
Case No. 146-Expelkd by ?\orthcrn Light Lodge No. 190;
Case Xo. 147-Snspended by California Lodge No. 1;
Case No. 148-Expclkd hy Ontario Lodge Xo. 301;
Case Xo. 149-::\Iembcr of Sunset Lodze NP. 352. expelled hy
Golden Gate Lodge No. 358.
Case No. 150-Expe!kd l1y Tlawaiian Lodge J\:o. 21;
Case :N" o.
by Crescent Lodge J\ o. 45;
Case Ro. 152-Member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. tried by Honolulu Lodge No. 4C9; commission rdmed to render verdict and passed up
the papers for review;
Case No.
hy South \Vest L,1dgc Xo. 283;
Case No. 154--Mcmher of Ashlar Lodge No. 306. expelled hy E\·cr·
green Lodge Ko. 259;
Case Ko.
by Doric Lodge
216:
Case No.
by Coalinga Lodge ::\ o. 387;
Case No. 157-Expelkd hy Sotoyome I,oclgc• :\ti. 123;
Case No.
by Na val Lodge l\ o. 87 ;
Case No. 159-Expellcd Ly Starr King Lodge No. 344;

44

I'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Case No. 160-Expclled by West Lake Lodge No. 392;
Case No. 161-Member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306, tried by San
Bernardino Lodge No. 348, and sentenced to reprimand; appealed by
]\faster of Ashlar Lodge;
Case Xo. 163-1\Iember of Amity Lodge No. 370, susp~ncled by
.\lturas Lodge No. 248; appealed by accused;
Case N' o. 164-Fellow Craft of Oakdale Lodge No. 275. expelled
hy San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.
Case X o. 165-Expelled by West Lake Lodge No. 392.
Case No. 167-Expelled by Charter Rock Lodge No. 410.
c\lso a petition in Case No. 560 for restoration from expulsion by
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361, July 7, 1908;
A petition in Case No. 85 Y,, for restoration from expulsion by
Crand Lodge in Octoher, 1910 (former member of Manila Lodge
N'o. 342).
Of proposed amendments to By-Laws, the Grand :\laster has appro1·ed the following:
:\bdishing affiliation fee: San Mateo No. 226;
Life membership: Whittier No. 323.
Reducing fee for affiliation: Presidio No. 354, Bay View X o. 401;
Decreasing dues : Chico No. 111.
Decreasing fees for degrees: Clinton X o. 119, Evening Star No.
186, Wilmington N'o. 198, Orland No. 265, Mt. Shasta N'o. 281, Waucuba l\o. 413;
Increasing clues : :\Ia<lison No. 23, San Diego No. 35, Los Angeles
X o. 42. :\Torning Star No. 68. Concord N' o. 117, \Vilmington X o. 198,
Cuadalt1pe No. 237, Reading No. 254, Hesperian No. 264, Tehachapi No.
313, Whittier No. 323, West Gate No. 335, Unity No. 368, Francis
Drake )Jo. 376, Huntington Beach No. 380, El Centro No. 384, Coalinga
Xo. 387. East Belt Ko. 391, Bay View No. 401, Sierra Madre No. 408,
Perris Xo. 411, Inglewood Ko. 421; Concord Xo. 117. Athens No. 228.
Increasing affiliation fee: Hawaiian Ko. 21, Chico No. 111, Doric
"\o. 216, Oceanic :\To. 371, Honolulu No. 409;
Increasing fees for degrC'es: Trinity No. 27, St. John's No. 37,
Suisun Xo. 55, Vesper No. 84, Howard :Xo. 96, Sotoyome Xo. 123, Petalt1111a :\o. 180. Buckeye No. 195, Athens No. 228, Cuadalupc Xo. 237,
.\nrlwr Xo. 273, South Cate ?\o. 320, Alhambra Ko. 322, Corona Ko.
324. Vallee <le France :lo. 329, Berkeley Xo. 363, Olivet Xo. 364, Huntin.c:tcn Beach ?\o. 380, l'.pland Xo. 419; Huntington Beach Xo. 380.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

Changing time of stated meetings : Plumas No. 60, Vesper N' o. 84,
Oak Grove No. 215, Alturas .\Jo. 248. Olive Branch No. 269, East Gate
No. 290, Los Banos No. 312, South Gate Ko. 320, Oxnard Xo. 341,
Fillmore No. 379, Highland Park Ko. 382, University No. 394, Arlington
No. 414, Elysian No. 418, Inglewood No. 421, l\IcCloud No. 430, Roseville No. 432, Claremont No. 436, Lancaster No. 437, Germania ?\ o. 438,
Wilshire U. D., Russian River No. 181, Eucalyptus Ko. 243, Chico
No. 111.
Fixing affiliation fee:

Corona No. 324.

By order of the Grand :\Jaster, special dispensations for vanous
purposes have been issued from this office, as follows:
To receive petitions from memliers of the United States Army or
Navy: Monterey No. 217, Lompoc Ko. 262, Blackmer U. D .. Coronado
U. D., Schofield U. D., Berkeley ?\ o. 363;
To hold election for officers at a time other than that tixcd by
law: Gold Hill No. 32, Texas Ko. 46, St. Helena No. 93, Nicolaus No.
129, Grafton No. 141, Oriental Xo. 144, Vitruvius No. 145, Evening
Star No. 186, Monterey Ko. 217. Alta No. 333, Hope Xo. 234, Selma
No. 277, Long Beach No. 327, Vallee de France Xo. 329;
To rehallot: Los Angeles No. 42, Live Oak :\o. 61, Eden Xo. 113,
Hermann l'\o. 127, Pacific l'\o. 136 (2), Crockett N'o. 139, King David's
No. 209, Friendship No. 210, Doric No. 216 (2). Anchor No. 273, Southern California No. 278, Los Gatos No. 292, Covina No. 334, Fullerton
No. 339, Palestine No. 351, l\Iill Valley No. 356, Richmond No. 375 (2),
West Lake No. 292 (2), Balder No: 393, Bav View Ko. 401, Moneta
No. 405, Alpha No. 431, Fairmount Xo. 43S,· Doric No. 216, Surprise
Valley Ko. 235, Moneta Xo. 405, Holtville No. 425.
The Grand Master also extended the time in which the Masterelect of Clay Lodge Ko. 95 should qualify.
The condition of the Special Emero-encv Relief Fund in the hands
of the Grand Secretary is as follows : "'
,
Balance on hand as per report of 1913 ____ ----------·----·- __________ ,_ ... _.... $5,057.57
December 27, 1913-Refuncl from Crand Master of Illinois .... ---- 1,000.00
December 31, 1913-Dividend _
101.14
June 30, 1914-Diviclend
123.00
Total on ham!

- - - $6,281.87

The above fund is in savings bank, subject to call, and draws interest at the rate of 4 per cent a year.

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~he .Ohio Flood Relief Committee has ordered that one-third of
contnhut10ns from jurisdictions outside of Ohio shall be refunded to
the donors. The contribution from the Grand Lodge of California
amounted to $5.000, and wry probably the sum of $1,666.66 will soon
be returned.

47

The Pierce Collection
DONATED BY TH£ DAUGHTERS
OF

The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life memberships m :\fann Lo(\ge No. 191, San Francisco Lodge Xo. 360, Apollo
Lodg-e ~o . .396, and Fairmount Lodge No. 435.

W. FRANK PIERCE

LIBRARY

Drytown Lodge No. 174 petitioned regularly to remove from Drytown to Plymouth and the petition was approved by the Grand Master.
The following Lodges have a 111emhership of 500 or more:
1. :\fission No.
2. South Gate X o. u-•v............... .
3. Live Oak X o.
4. Southern California
5. Hollenbeck No.
6. Pacific No.
7. East Gate No.
8. California No.
9. Oakland Ko.
10. Occidental X o. -- ...................... .
11. Fidelitv No.
12. Golde1; Gate Ko.
13. King Solomon's ?\ o. 260....
.. .............509
14. Pentalpha N'o.

THE LIRRARY,

. \Ve have many books, but mainly proceedings of other J urisdictlons. Of miscellaneous reading our library is sadly deficient. All the
books have been placed in modern cases and labeled and a card catalogue completed. A few donations have hccn made, but most of the
books are from the \V. Frank Pierce collection. :\ book-plate has been
adopted for those. the following being a copy:

OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
CASE........... ..

No ...........

In some of the Eastern Jurisdictions brethren who are interested
have presented to Masonic libraries collections on particular subjects,
and they are appropriately called "Memorial Collections." For instance, the late James D. Richardson filled one alcove in the library of
the Scottish Rite at Washington with books relating alone to the
politics, history and the public men of the 'Cnited States; Martin Collins contributed money to the amount of $1,300, which was expended
on books of travel and descriptions in the United' States and its possessions; William Busby of Oklahoma contributed $1,880 for a collection comprising science in general, mathematics, physics, astronomy,
electricity, mechanics, geology, ethnology, botany and natural history.
We have ample room in the Temple for any donations that may be
made.
Contributions have been made during the year as follows:
A picture of Jonathan D. Stevenson, our first Grand Master, by
Jas. F. Robinson, Grand Secretary of Oregon;
A part of the old. Temple at Post and Montgomery streets, being
the figure of clasped hands that ornamented the Post street entrance,
by Hermann Muller Hoadley of ~fount Moriah Lodge N'o. 44. So far
as we know, this is the only relic of the old Temple extant;
Photograph of old Temple, by George Bell of San Francisco Lodge

No. 360;
::\:lackey's History of Freemasonry, seven volumes, by A. F. Donnelly, Richmond Lodge No. 375;
Bound volumes Proceedings Grand Lodge of California, by T. N.
Alexander, Berkeley Lodge No. 363;

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bound volumes Proceedings Grand Lodge of· California, by L. B.
Hathway, Rising Star Lodge No. 83;

Most Ancient and Honorable Custom of the Royal Craft, in all ages
and nations throu~hout the known world and not contrarywise. And
we do further empower and appoint the said T. l\L Reed, I. P. Davison
& P. \V. Cunningham and their successors. to hear and determine all
the singular matters and things relating to the Craft, within the jurisdiction of the said Lodge, with the assistance of the Members of the said
Lodge. A N'D LASTLY we do hereby authorize and empower our
said trusty and well beloved Brethren, T. M. Recd, I. P. Davison, &
P. \V. Cunningham to Install their successors, being first duly elected
and chosen, to whom they shall deliver this vVarrant and to invest them
with all the powers and dignities to their offices respectively belonging, and such successors shall in like manner, from time to time,
Install their successors, etc. etc. Such Installation, to be upon or near
St. John the Evangelist's Day. during the continuance of this Lodge
forever. PROVIDED ALWAYS, That the said above named Brethren and their successors pay duC' respect to this Right Worshipful
Grand Lodge, and the ordinances thereof, otherwise this warrant to be
of no force or effect

·wood from battleship Hartford, by John Cline, Solano Lodge
No. 229;
Bound volumes Proceedings Grand Lodge of California, by Jesse
Walton, Oakland Lodge J\o. 188;

Arn! through the kindness of Edward Dexter we received from
l\Irs. Helen Knights. administratrix of the estate of William H.
Knights (Sacramento Lodge No. 40), Voice of Masonry (7 volumes),
The
of Freemasonry, Masonic Chart, The Book of the Chapter,
Cryptic .\fasonry, Masonic Jurisprudence, Masonic Parliamentary Law;
From Mrs. Edwin A. Sherman, a number of Proceedings of this
and otlicr Jurisdictions.
I
1'

I

\V c also have a photographic copy of one of the forms of charter
issued in
days-Georgetown
No. 25-which reads as follows (note that the Lodge was permitted to be "holden in the town
of
El Dorado county, California, or within fi1.1c miles of
the.same"):
R. D. l-Iyam, Grand lv!astcr
Chas. M. Radcliff, Deputy Grand Master
A. Hollub. Sn1ior Grand Warden
John A. Tutt, Junior Grand Tl'ard,'11 pro tcm.
TO ALL W£-f01I IT MAY CONCER:\
The Crane! Lodge of Free and Acc-cpted :'lfasons for the State of
California, and Masonic Juri:;diction thereunto belonging,
In Ample Form assembled at San Francisco, in the State of C;ilifornia.
WISDO:Vf

STRENGTH

FRATERNI1Y

KNOW
That We the said Grand Lodge of the :'lfost Ancient
and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons according to
the Old Constitutions, revised by his Royal Highness, Prince Edwin,
at York, in the Kingdom of England, in the year. of the Christian era
nine hundred twenty and six, and in the year of Masonry four thottsand
twenty and six, by virtue of the powers and authorities vested in us,
DO hereby constitute and appoint our trusty and well beloved Brethren
T . .M. Reed, W. Master; I. P. Davison, Senior \Varden, and P. W.
Cunningham, Junior Warden of a Lodge to be called Georgetown
Lodge No. 25, Number Twenty-five, to be held in the Town of Georgetown, El Dorado county, California, or within five miles of the same,
AND we do further authorize and empower our said trusty and well
beloved Brethren T. M. Reed, W. ~-• I. P. Davison, S. W., & P. W.
Cunningham, J. W., to admit and make Free' Masons according to the

L

49

GIVEN JN OPEN GRAND LODGE, under the hands of our Right
Vvorshipful Grand Officers and the seal of our Grand
Lodge at San Francisco, this sixth day of May, A. C. one
(seal)
thousand eight hundred and fifty-three, and of Masonry five
thousand eight hundred and fifty-three. A. L. 5853.
Attest:
L. Srowl':LL, Graud SecrctarJ'.
AnmsnN l\TARTIN. Gra11d Treasurer.
During the year ending July 31, 1914, I have drawn against the
Grand Treasurer as follows:
if''arrant
No.
1. Masonic Temple Association, 1500 shares of stocL ..........$15,000.00
2. John Whicher, salary, August. 1913............ ........ .................
300.00
3. T. ]. Baker, salary, August. 1913............................................
200.00
4. H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1913.. ...................
150.00
5. E. ]. Tobin & Co., rent, September, 1913...... ,.....................
118.00
6. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman... .............
25.00
7. Mrs. C. W. Taylor. appropriation hy Grand Lodge............
25.00
8. H. S. Crocker Co., filing cases and index (card system)..
47.25
9. Pacific T. & T. Co,, rent, August, 1913................................
8.23
10. W. M. Plummer Mfg. Co., 1 flag, 18x24 inches..................
38.50
11. E. C. Hughes, cards for Credential Committee ..................
22.50
12. Wilson Bros. Co., storage and moving (Pierce library)....
19.50

50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

13.

Shannon-Conmy, 800 annual return blanks, $90.00; SOO
large 2c envelopes, $12.7S; 400 lists of rejections,
130.2S
$1S.OO; SOO small 2c envelopes, $12.SO........................... .
3.00
14. W. N. Brunt, SOO cards (removal notice) ........................... .
lS. J olm \Vhicher, expressage, $1.47; insp. reports to Grand
Lecturer, $S.SO; rubber stamp, 80c; repairing chairs,
10.22
$1.00; telegrams, $1.4S .............................................. .
1.SO
16. The Call, July to September, 1913......................................... .
2.2S
17. Star Towel Supply Co., June to September, 1913............. .
171.00
18. T. J. Baker, ~xpenses July 2S to August 27, 1913 ............... .
19. William S. Wells, for Masonic Homes ................................. . 3,000.00
300.00
20. John Which er, salary, September, 1913 ............................... .
200.00
21. T. J. Baker, salary, September, 1913 ....................................... .
lS0.00
22. H. S. Johnson, salary, September, 1913 ............................... .
7S.OO
23. C. B. Seaman, salary, September, 1913................................... .
2S.OO
24. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman ................... .
2S.OO
2S. l\Irs. C. vV. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ......... .
lS0.00
26. Masonic Temple Association, rent, October, 1913............. .
27. J olm \Vhicher, expressage, $1.40; telegrams, SSc; labor
7.9S
on books (Pierce library), $6.00................................... .
28. W. N. Brunt, 2,000 dedication programs, $180.00; SOO
clasp envelopes, $6.00; 7SO folders (Grand Lodge
meeting), $13.SO; 1,000 invitati0ns and tickets (dedi2S4.SO
cation), $SS.OO ················---·························--·-··········---········
S4.00
29. H. S. Crocker Co., standing desk ................................ .
30. G. R. Armstrong, 8,000 receipts for dues, $29.60; 2,000
3S.60
second sheets, $3.00; 2,000 4s cap hone! legal, $3.00 ....
26.10
31. J. B. Bocarde Co., moving from Hewes Bldg. to Temple ..
12S.OO
32. Charles Waltz, 1 safe ---·-···············-·-·····--········-·····················---8.3S
33. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, September, 1913........................... .
12.7S
34. Shannon-Conmy, SOO large 2c envelopes ............................... .
3S. Rucker Fuller Desk Co., mahogany desk, $S7.SO; mahogany chair, $30.00; mahogany chair, $42.SO; mahogany revolving case, $23.7S; mahogany basket,
160.2S
$6.SO ·········--···························-----·················--·-·--····-··--··············
8.2S
36. Wilson Bros., moving from Hewes Bldg. to Temple ....... .
149.6S
37. T. J. Baker, expenses, August 28 to September 2S, 1913 ..
4.00
38. Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ... .
35.00
39. Grand Lodge of Iowa, set of Grand Lodge reports ......... .
118.45
40. Charles l\L Plum, carpet, etc., Grand Secretary's office ..
200.00
41. E. H. Hart, Chairman Committee on Correspondence... .
42. Ralph Lowe, pay roll, 1913 .......................................................... 7,546.80
60.00
43. E. B. Spencer, 300 linen aprons ............................................... .
44. Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco ......................... . 3,118.64

Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles .......................... . 4,000.00
Masonic Board of Relief of San Diego .............................. . 1,000.00
60.00
S. D. ]\fayer, salary as Grand Organist.. ............................ .
12S.OO
Geo. P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler ................................ .
J. D. Murphey, contingent expenses, Grand l\Taster.. ....... . 1,200.00
50. W. P. Filmer, appropriation by Grand Lodge (Hawaiian
200.00
trip) ...................................................................................... .
s1. Masonic Temple Association (Annual Communication) .. lS0.00
lS.00
S2. J. H. Sampson, assistant Grand Tyler. ............................... .
129.90
S3. John Whicher, balance pay roll... ......................... .
300.00
S4. John Whicher, salary, October, 1913 .............................. .
2SO.OO
SS. T. J. Baker, salary, October, 1913 ....
lS0.00
S6. H. S. Johnson, salary, October, 1913
7S.OO
S7. C. B. Seaman, salary, October, 1913 ........ .
2S.OO
58. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge
lS0.00
S9. Masonic Temple Association, rent, N ovcmber, 1913
11.00
60. B. Pasquale Co., 4 dozen gloves ............................ .
300.00
61. E. H. Adams, tea set (Grand Master Filmer) ................ .
62. Shannon-Conmy, 400 lists of rejections, $12.SO; SOO bul17.2S
letin board sheets, $4.75 .................................................. .
3.SO
63. William R. Phillips Co., 1 roll book ....................................... .
10.70
64. R. H. Mitchell, installing two buzzers and tel. holder.. ... .
8.40
6S. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, October, 1913.............................. .
66. S. D. Mayer, choir dedication, Grand Lodge, Memorial
60.00
service -·-····-············---·······-····-- .............................................. .
19.60
67. J. P. Fraser, lettering doors and cleaning furniture ......... .
7.40
68. Rabjohn & Morcom. 3 frames -····--·--·······22.SO
69. Wilson Bros. Co., moving from Hewes Bldg. to Temple ..
70. C. F. Weber Co., mahogany table, $8.SO; T. W. stand,
20.00
$11.SO ···-··-··········--··········
············--······-········--············18.7S
71. Rucker Fuller Desk Co., glass to cover desk. ................... .
13.8S
72. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, blotters, pens, twine, ink. etc ... .
420.7S
73. H. S. Crocker, book cases for library ............. .
6.00
74. A. L. Auradou, engrossing six charters .......................... .
10.7S
7S. T. J. Baker, expenses. September 27 to 30, 1913.
76. John Whicher, expressage, $4.S3; telegrams, 6Sc; blackboard, 40c; Grand Tyler, petty expense, $2.3S;
10.93
Cheesbrough, $3.00 ........................................................... .
77. Cancelled.
2SO.OO
78. T. J. Baker, salary, November, 1913.
lS0.00
79. H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1913 .................... .
7S.OO
80. C. B. Seaman. salary, November, 1913.............. .
lS0.00
81. Masonic Temple Association, rent, December, 1913 ......... .
2S.OO
82. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge........... .

45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

J.

51

52
83.
84.

8S.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.

93.
94.
9S.

96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
lOS.
106.
107.
108.
109.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

W. E. Engle, subscription to Relief Association United
States and Canada .....
.................. .
E. C. Hughes Co., 1,000 letterheads, $4.75; 500 envelopes,
$2.50; 500 2c envelopes, $13.50; 5.000 mailing cards,
$13.50; 1,000 letterheads, $12.SO ............ .
N ea! Publishing Co., 100 key to questions and 400 examinations of J\fasters-clcct .................................................. .
Star Towel Supply Co., rent, September to December,
1913 .
H. S. Crocker Co., 1 steel unit, $28.00; 6 transfer cases,
$2.40 ..................................... .
Pacitic T. & T. Co .. rent, Xo\'cmlwr, 1913 ........................ .
C. M. Plum, imported napier matting for library ..
J. P. Fraser, stainin[; floor
................. .
Dorland & Jones, premium bonds Grand Secretary and
Grand Treasurer
................ .
John vVhicher, telegrams, $2.4S; expressagc, $S.SS; note
book, 2Sc; taxes, 20c; postage stamps, $3S.OO; laundry aprons and gloves, $38.4S .
...................... .
T. J. Baker. expenses, October 26 to November 27, 1913 ..
D. G. Blakison, oil portrait \Villiam A. Davies
Shannon-Conmy, 1.000 clasp envelopes, $10.00; 2,000
copies address Grand l\Iaster and Grand Orator,
$84.00; 4CO copies list of rejections, $12.00; SOO large
2c envelopes, $12.7S; 1.000 :\fonitors, $120.00; SOO
2c envelopes. $12.SO; 300 circulars ( R. R. rates),
$3.7S; cards (committee rooms), $4.SO; 2,000 address
labels, $S.OO .......................................................................... .
John Which er, salary, X ovembcr, 1913
John vVhichcr, salary, December, 1913 ..
T. ]. Baker, salary, December, 1913 ..
l L S. Johnson, salary, December, 1913 ..
C. B. Scaman, salary, December, 1913.
Masonic Temple Association, rent, January, 1914
J\Irs. C. W. Taylor. appropriation by Grand Lodge
Ceo. P. Adams, distrilmting S6 copies Proceedings ..
D. K. Blakiston, oil portrait ]. H. Stc\·em
................. .
.............. .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, December, 1913
H. S. Crocker Co.. oak table, $18.00; roller shelf,
$12.00; type for addrcssograph, 87c
............... .
l rvine & Jachcns. repairing sczil
E. C. Hughes Co .. 1,000 letterheads
Rabjohn & l\J orcnm, 1 frame .......... .

GRAND LODGI<; OF CALIFORNIA

2Sl.2S

46.7S
14.00
2.2S
30.40
13.28
74.SO
8.00
62.SO

81.90
99.85
100.00

264.SO
300.00
300.00
2SO.OD
lS0.00
7S.OO
lS0.00
2S.OO
7.8S
100.00
10.3S
19.07
2.25
9.00
I.SO

53

110. T. J. Baker, expenses, November 30 to December 23,
28.45
1913 ··························································································
1,200
copies
Proceedings
1913,
111. Shannon-Conmy,
$1,331.80; 500 copies dedication ceremony, $100.3S ..... . 1,432.lS
38.85
112. Geo. R. Armstrong, 10,SOO receipts for dues ....................... .
113. John Whicher, expressage, $2.40; telegrams, 60c; post10.02
age, $7.00 .............................................................................. .
114. Masonic Temple Association, 1,000 shares of stock. ........ . 10,000.00
1lS. Transfer of funds from A. Borel to Union Trust Co .. .
300.00
116. John Whicher, salary, January, 1914....................................... .
2SO.OO
117. T. J. Baker, salary, January, 1914...................................... .
lS0.00
118. H. S. Johnson, salary, January, 1914.................................... .
75.00
119. C. B. Seaman, salary, January, 1914 ....................................... .
lS0.00
120. Masonic Temple Association, rent, February, 1914........... .
2S.OO
121. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ........... .
122. T. J. Baker, expenses, December 29, 1913, to Jannary
101.lS
28, 1914 ····················································································
123. John Whicher, expressage, $138.67; postage stamps,
$28.00; telegrams, $3.90; rubber stamps, 40c; twine,
172.07
60c ; lettering vessels, SOc ................................................ .
8.30
124. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent. January, 1914................ .
283.36
12S. Stockholm & Allyn, shelving in library .
78.00
126. Rabjohn & Morcum, frames ................................. .
12.8S
127. Wentworth & Boyce, cards and guides for library ........... .
128. N ea! Publishing Co., 1.200 copies amendments, $13.7S;
16.7S
SO sets letters and tigurcs for library, $3.00 ............... .
13.SO
129. Wm. R. Phillips, cash book Grand Secretary .................. .
130. Shannon-Conmy, SOO 2c envelopes. $12.SO; 500 clasp envelopes, $6.00; SOO large 2c envelopes, $12.7S; 400
4S.2S
lists of rejections, $14.00 ........
..................... .
l.SO
131. W. N. Brunt, SOO sheets of paper .............
..................... .
300.00
132. John Whicher, salary, February, 1914 ..... .
2S0.00
133. T. J. Baker, salary, February. 1914 ...
lS0.00
134. H. S. Johnson, salary, February, 1914..
lS0.00
,13S. Masonic Temple Association, rent, March, 1914............... .
2S.OO
136. Mrs. C. 'vV. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ........... .
12.80
137. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent. February, 1914............................... .
20.00
138. Arapahoe Nursery, floral piece]. A. Foshay ....................... .
139. N ea! Publishing Co., SOO Constitutions, $27S.OO; 600
292.00
amendments to Constitution, $17.00
140. Star Towel Supply Co., rent to March. 1914.......... .
2.2S
141. Shannon-Conmy, 7SO Rosters, 1913 .................... .
2,069.60
142. D. G. Blakiston. oil portraits W. P. Filmer am! F. l\!.
200.00
A1igellotti .... ..... .. ... .. ..... .. ... ... ... .... ... .... .. . ··· ..... ·· ·· ·.. ········ ·····

143. John \Vhicher, exprcssage, $8.07; envelope moistener, 75c
144. T. J. Baker, expenses, January 31 to February 24, 1914.. ..
145. Whittier Lodge No. 323, or<lcr of Grand Master.. ............. .
146. John \Vhichcr, salary, March, 1914.
.. ........... ..
147. T. ]. Baker. salary, March, 1914 .......................................... .
148. H. S. Johnson, salary, Mardi, 1914..
149. l\Iasonic Temple Association, rent, April, 1914 ................... .
150. .\Irs. C. \V. Taylor, apprnpriation by Grand Lodge
151. Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ... .
152. Rabjohn & Morrnm, frame to portrait F . .\L Angellotti ... .
153. Geo. R. Armstrong, 24,000 receipts, $88.80; 400 life memhership receipts. $9.50 ........................................ ..
154. John \Vhichcr, cxpressage, $3.19; twine, 75c ................... ..
155. Pantagraph Printing Co., 400 lists of Regular Lodges ...... ..
156. Geo. P. Adams, distributing 44 copies roster ....
157. Pacific T. & T.
rent, .\farch, 1914........
.. .............. .
158. T. J. Baker. expenses, February 25 to .i\Iarch 25, 1914.
159. Rabjohn & J\forcum, fr;:ime to portrait \V. P. Filmer
160. J. Seulberger & Co .. floral picc~ E. A. Sherman ..
161. D. G. Blakiston, oil portraits G. C. Perkins and $. C.
Denson
................ ..
162. John Whichcr, salary, April, 1914..... .
163. T. ]. Baker, salary, April, 1914...
.. ........................ ..
164. H. S. Johnson, salary, April, 1914............ .
165. l\fasonic Temple Association, rent, l\Iav. 1914
166. .Mrs. C. \V. Taylor, appropriation by G1:an<l Lodge ......... ..
167. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait T. Flint and C. L. Patton ..
168. John \Vhichcr, postage stamps, $12.05; telegrams, $1.60;
cxpressage. $106.05
169. Pacific T. & T. Co .. rent, April, 1914 ...
170. J\lercantilc Trust Co., rent deposit box.. .. .................... ..
171. T. J. Baker. expenses. March 26 lo c\nril 15, 1914..
172. R;ibjohn & l\forcum, frames portr;its Perkins and
Denson ......................................... .
173. E. C. H ughcs, check book, $12.50; 6,000 visitors' cards.
Sl6.00
174. John Whir.her, salary, May, 1914 .. ..
175. T. ]. Baker, salary, May, 1914............................... ..
176. H. S. Johnson. :;alary, l\Iay, 1914 ..
177. ::\fosnnic Temple Association, rent. Junc, 1914.
178. Mrs. C. \V. Taylor, appropriation by Crand Lodge ..
179. Geo. P. Caldwell, binding 75 \'olt1mcs Procccding,s 1913...
180. Rz1 bj ohn & l\forcum, frames to portraits T. J~'lint and
C. L. Patton ..................................................................... ..

55

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

181.
182.

8.82
84.10
105.00

300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
4.00

35.00
98.30
3.94
150.79
8.80
8.85
86.80
35.00
20.m
200.m
300.00
250.0J

LSD.OD
150.00
25.0'.J
200.0D
119.70
8.30

7.50
41.75

70.00
28.50
300.0J
250.00
150.00
150.00
25 00
132.00

'

Star Towel Supply Co., rent to June 1, 1914.. _...... _............. .
Shannon-Conmy, 700 lists of inspectors, $36.00; 4,000
book labels. $8.00; 1,000 large 2c envelopes, $25.~0;
1,000 small 2c envelopes, $25.00; 2,000 address labels,
$5.00; 400 lists of rejections, $16.00; 1,000 Monitors, $120.00; 1,500 slips for Deacons and Masters,
$7.00 ........ -............................................................................... .
183. Rt,ckstell & Land, ad in S. F. Call ...................................... .
184. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent .. _......
.. .......... _.................... .
185. John Whicher. expressage, $2.06; grip binders, $2.50;
telegrams, $3.55 ................................................................... .
186. T. J. Baker, expenses, April 25 to l\fay 29, 1914............... .
187. John Whicher, salary, June, 1914.......................................... ..
188. T. J. Baker, salary, June, 1914................................................
189. H. S. Johnson, salary, June, 1914 ................. ..
190. Masonic Temple Association, rent, July, 1914............-.... .
191. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ........... .
192. G. R. Armstrong, 23,500 receipts, $86.95 ; 535 holders,
$96.30 ....................................................................................... .
193. H. S. Crocker Co., City Directory ............ ......................... ..
194. C. C. :\lattie. Jr., oil portrait W. T. Lucas ............................
195. Neal Publishing Co., 600 copies U'niform Code By-Laws ..
196. Rabjohn & Marcum, frame portrait W. T. Lucas ............. .
197. Fairmount Floral Co., floral piece Mrs. Whicher ............... .
198. A. Brown Co., 2 limousines, funeral E. A. Sherman ..... ..
199. E. C. Hughes Co., 1,000 letterheads ................................. _.... .
200. John \Vhicher, expressage, $5.23; telegram, 40c.
201. Pacific 'I'. & T. Co., rent. June, 1914....................................... .
202. Schwabacher-Frey Co., 4 reams second sheets ...... .
203. F. A. Edwards, binding 21 vols. Proceedings (Bledsoe)
204. T. J. Baker, expenses, :Vfay 30 to June 25, 1914.............. .
205. John Whicher, salary, July, 1914................................. .
206. T. J. Baker, salary, July, 1914........................... .
207.. H. S. Johnson. salary. July, 1914........................................... .
208. Masonic Temple Association, rent, August, 1914.. ___ .. .
209. William P. Filmer, salary for year 1914............................. ..
210. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ........... ..
211. John Whicher, postage, $49.00; expressagc, $3.17; wire,
45c ..........................................
.................................... .
212. Morton & Co .. 2 prints charter Georgetown Lodge ........... .
213. T. ]. Baker, expenses, June 26 to July 23, 1914.................. ..
214. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, July, 1914......................................
215. Schmidt Lithograph Co., 302 diplomas ................................ ..

2.25

242.50

.40
9.60
8.11
109.15
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
183.25
7.50
100.00
11.00
35.00
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.63
8.75
2.00
42.00
87.05
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
200.00
25.00
52.62
1.85
102.05
11.17
262.70

70.00

---

..... -~ ....

-----·--------

53

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

216.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Shannon-Conmy, 400 lists rejections, $15.00; 800 envelopes, $8.50; 950 annual return blanks, $120.00; 500
large 2c envelopes, $12.75; 500 small 2c envelopes,
$12.50; 400 lists of rejections,
Total .................... .

185.25

.................................................$68,293.80

The Grand Secret;iry in account with the Grand Lodge of California
for the fiscal year ending Jnly 31, 1914:
General Fund
Dues from Subordinate Lodges ............... .
············ $57,072.55
Fees for charters (7) ......... .
350.00
...............
Dispensations to form new Lodges (11) ....
825.00
Special dispensations for various purposes ......... .
480.00
Returned premium on insurance ................... .
7.70
l'\eedles Lodge No. 326, refund account of relief... ............... .
10.00
Balance on sale of bonds ....................................... .
676.39
Grand Chapter and Commandery, sale of steel safe. ................. .
75.00
Pay roll, balance not paid to Representatives
39.70
Sales for the yearDiplomas (large) ......................................... .
195.00
Diplomas (small) ... .....................
............... .
47.75
Constitutions (paper bound) ............................................ .
5.50
Constitutions (interleaved)
6.00
Constitutions and Ceremonies .
517.00
Proceedings and Rosters ......... .
25.00
Receipts for dues .......... .
381.25
Receipt holders
52.00
Bound volumes .
2.50
Monitors ...................... .
518.00
List of Regular Lodges
3.75

Home Maintenance Fund
Home Building Fund

. ······· ............ ······················· ... ........

Amounting in the aggregate to ..

$61,290.09
50,257.00
25,128.50

................ ················· .... $136,675.59

All which has been paid to the Grand Treasurer, as per receipts on
file in this office, and as should be shown by his report.

l

57

For the current fiscal year, August 1 to October 8, 1914, inclusive,
I have collected and paid to the Grand Treasurer the sum of $140,917.65,
segregated as follows :
Home Maintenance Fund ...
Home Building Fund ..
General Fund
Representative Fund .....

. . . ... $ 53,179.00
26,589.50
50,676.15
10,473.00

Total .............................................................$140,917.65

JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

and it was referred to the same Committee as that to
which had been referred the Address of the Grand Master.

REPORT OF THE .JIASO::-JIC TEMPLE
ASSOCL;\TIOX.
The report of William H. Crocker, President of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, was presented
as follows:
Ta the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
BRETHREN: The Directors of the Masonic Temple Association of
California herewith present for your information a foll and complete
statement of account from September L 1908, to September 1, 1914,
which contains therein the cost of the building, the cost of the ground
upon which it is erected, the cost of maintenance since it was occupied,
the amount paid for taxes and incidental expenses, and also the source
of all revenues derived and the amount of the present indebtedness.

58

PROCEgDJNGS OF THE

RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITGRES, l\1:\SOI\IC TEJ\IPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALTFORX IA, FROl\I SEPTEJ\IBER
1_.
TO SEPTEl\IBER 1, 1914.
RECEIPTS.
SunscRJPTrn~s PArn.

Grand Lodge. F. and A. ?\L .....................................................$275,000.0Q
Grand Chapter, R. A. M ...................... ........ ... ..................
57,500.00
Grand Commandcry, K. T..........
............................ 30,000.00
California Lodge No.
50,000.00
La Parfaite Cnion Lodge No. 17.......
1,000.00
Hawaiian Lodge No. 2L..
.... .............
1,000.00
Occidental Lodge No. 22....................................
15.000.00
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. ........ . ......... ...............................
10, 100.00
:\fount Moriah Lodge No. 44...................... ..................
................ 15,000.00
Hornitos Lodge Xo. 98..............................
.........................
200.00
Clinton Lodge No. 119.........................
........... .......
100.00
Lodge No. 120......
.............. ... .............. ....
25,000.00
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123........................... ......... .... ..........................
500.00
Hermann Lodge No. 127. ................. ............................................ .... 5,500.00
Pacific Lodge No. 136.................... ........................... ....... ................ 5,000.00
Crockett Lodge No. 139...................................
............................ 7,500.00
Franklin Lodge No. 143. ... ... ....... ... ...............................
500.00
Oriental Lodge No. 144.................................................. .................... 7.550.00
Abel! Lodge No. 146...........................
................
1,000.00
Excelsior Lodge No. 166........... .... .. .............................................. 20,000.00
Mission Lodge Ko. 169.................................................
1,000.00
Antioch Lodge Ko. 175... ......................................................................
100.00
Evening Star Lodge No. 186........................ ..............................
100.00
King David Lodge ?\ o. 209............................................... ... ............
100.00
Doric Lodge No. 216..................... ....................
................
7,500.00
Speranza Italiana
No. 219..........................................
3,000.00
Solano Lodge No. 229................................................................
500.0:J
Surprise Valky Lodge No. 235...............
22.50
l\fagnolia Lodge No. 242.................. ... ... ..........................................
100.00
Encalyptus I,odge Ko. 243......................................... .................
750.00
;\din Lodge X o. 250. .... .. ...... ..
....................
200.00
l\fok<:lumne Hill
100.00
No. 298 .............................. .
Alta Lodge No. 333 ............................................................ .
750.00
Carquinez Lodge No. 337 ................................................................. .
100.00
Starr King Lodge No. 344..................................................... .
1,000.00
McKinl<'y Lodge No. 347 .................................................................... ..
250.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Presidio Lodge No. 354............... ............................................
1,000.00
Yiill Valley Lodge Ko. 356............. .................................. .................
10.00
San Francisco Lodge No. 360..... ..... ....................
........................ 1,000.00
vv'illits Lodge No. 365............
................
100.00
Amity Lodge No. 370......................... ..
. .........................
1,000.00
Richmond Lodge No. 375....
..............................
100.00
Parnassus Lodge No. 388..................
..............................
50.00
California Chapter No. 5 ........................ ...................................... 30,000.00
Naval Chapter No. 35..............
.... ................................
1,000.00
Humboldt Chapter No. 52. ....................... . .......................
500.00
San Luis Chapter :No. 62............. ..................... .................
50.00
California Commanclery No. 1................ ................................. ......... 33,750.00
San Luis Comman<lery No. 27..... ................
30.00
Mount Shasta Commandery No. 32. ..........................
200.00
Eureka Commandery No. 35 ............. .. ...........................
500.00
California Scottish Rite Bodies...............
500.00
Evening Star Chapter Ko. 10. 0. E. S............................
100.00
'Miramar Chapter No. 25, 0. E. S......... .................... ................
50.00
Stella Chapter No. 39, 0. E. S.
....... ............
50.00
Sotoyome Chapter No. 82, 0. E. S..... ....................
250.00
{'iapphire Chapter No. 230, 0. E. S. ....
...... ........... .
100.00
Total paid, Masonic

.. ........... $76,530.00
Individual Masons ............................................ .
Part payments on subscriptions....
1,768.50
Refund of taxes on purchase...
.....................................
699.83
Rents prior to building.......
....... .............
4,895.00
Interest on loan.......................
..........................
1,691.06
Refund acct. interest ...............
................................................
1.10
Refund Board of Public Works.......................................................
1,002.00
8.41
Rebates acct. bi11s ................................................... ..
84.36
Rebate acct. insurance ................................................................ .
Rent of halls, Sept., 1913, to Aug., 1914 ( 12 months) ............... .. 22,440.70
Total receipts to Sept. 1, 1914................. .

.... $722,483.46

60

GRAND LODGE: OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1912.

TOT AL EXPENDITURES FROM SEPTEMBER 1, 1908, TO
SEPTEMBER 1, 1914.
1908.
Real estate ................ $ 257,000.00
Taxes, 1st inst. 1908
568.77
Refund taxesHale lot __________________
87.25
Printing ......................
26.75
Engrossing By-laws..
20.00
Corporation seal........
20.00
Safe deposit box........
5.00

Stamps and postals ..
Safe deposit box ....... .
Taxes, 1st inst. 1910
Architects ................. .
Stamps and postals ... .
Blanks ....................... .
Envelopes and Letter
Heads ..................... .
Solicitor ..................... .
Solicitor's expense ... .
Printing ................. .

1909.
Taxes, 2d inst. 1908 ..
Watchman _________________ _
Recording deeds ....... .
Signatures to by-laws
Warrant book ........... .
Photo of sidewalk ..... .
Corporation tax ......... .
Taxes, 1st inst. 1909
Safe deposit box ....... .
Scavenger ................. .
Advertising in
Trestle Board .... .
Printing .............. .
Secretary .
Stationery

568.77
48.50
5.60
5.00
3.00
4.00
100.00
1,042.22
5.00
2.75
100.00
37.40
275.00
1.40

1910.
Secretary .................. .
Architects ------------··---·
Title Co ...................... .
Taxes, 2d inst. 1909 ..
Taxes refund, Magee
Stationery ................. .
Title Co ...................... .
Stock certificate book
Printing ..................... .
Adv. annual meeting

305.75
750.00
19.50
1,042.22
62.55
5.50
15.10
6.00
94.95
6.00

272,932.61
2,400.00
600.00
1.00
375.CiO
34.9;)
28.50
64.4:)
23.55
1,156.42
6.GO
] ,283.51
5.50
Photo of sidewalk
Safe deposit box ....... .
5.00
Photo of building _____ _
5.50
Taxes, 1st inst. 1912
1,256.40

Contract account.. ..... .
Supt. of construction
Secretary .................. .
Notary ...................... .
Insurance
Telephone
Watchman
Printing ........... .
Blanks ..................... .
Taxes, 2d inst. 1911 ..
Electricity ____________ _
Interest _________________ _

7.75
5.00
1,128.20
10,000.00
8.00
15.00
26.00
350.00
150.00
11.50

1911.
Secretary .... .
Notary ............... .
Ledger ....................... .
Printing ..................... .
Taxes, 2d inst. 1910 ..
Architect's fee ........... .
Permit, Board Public
Works ..................... .
Contract account ....... .
Supt. of construction
Stamps ...................... .
Stationery ................. .
Blanks ....................... .
Printing ..................... .
Safe deposit box ....... .
Grand Standlaying corner stone
decorating ............. .
copper boxes and
cartage ·---------------organ chairs _________ _
Taxes, 1st inst. 1911
Architect's fee ........... .
Contract account.. ..... .

500.'lO
2.00
li.25
228.25
1,128.20
5,000.00

1913.
Secretary ____ _
Contract account...
Insurance ................... .
Architect's fee ........... .
Interest account ....... .
Motor oil ................... .
Electricity and gas ... .
Telephones ····------------Printing ..................... .
Notary ....................... .
Supt. of construction
Organs ....................... .
Taxes, 2d inst. 1912 ..
To let sign ................. .
Fuel oil ....................... .
Hardware ................. .
Stock certificate bks.
Labor -----------···-----------Cleaning utensils
Furnishing ............... .
Cleaning building
and windows ......... .

1,002.00
40,870.54
800.00
2.65
4.G-0
16.00
11.50
5.00
360.00
15.00
16.00
7.00
1,156.42
5,646.00
3,104.02

- - - - ..

_____...

600.•)0
252,080.Gl
1,476.73
11,066.73
10,950.86
16.10
463.60
53.60
17.75
8.75
2,000.00
10,069.45
1,256.4.0
8.00
495.85
80.70
16.50
8.00
163.60
68,440.59
240.45

Postage .
Franchise tax ...... .
Toilet paper
Fuses ........................ .
.Janitors
Check returned ......... .
Stationery .
Trucks and garbage
cans _____ _
Drayage ....
Safe deposit box
Paint ....
Disinfectant
Asbestos
Bellows ...
Taxes, 1st inst. 1913
Lamps .....
Repairs
Rent of piano.
Photo and frame,
President
Tools ...
Water

61

6.00
5.05
9.00
121.27
1,547.50
15.00
5.35
42.85
20.50
5.00
64.52
45.00
4.41
.i5
2,242.00
57.75
49.20
12.00
14.50
29.86
35.-16

1914.
Contract account
Furnishing ............... .
Insurance .
Supt. of construction
Organs
Interest account
Secretary .................. .
Architects
Fuel oil .................... .
Gas ______ _
Electricity ...... .
Towels .......... .
Repairs
Water ....................... .
Tools .......................... .
Cleaning utensils ..
Gas regulator ........... .
Lamps ................... .

2,444.!i1
2,576.97
127.15
200.00
5,670.00
10,804.99
400.00
2,500.00
233.!ll
499.65
1,897.70
54.10
163.29
124.80
33.C4
37.00
16.00
25.58

62
Small hardware
Fuses ........................ .
Telephones
Piano
.Janitors ... .
Paint ....................... .
Step ladders
Moving dirt
Stationery ................. .
lVIotor oiL .................. .
Care of elevators ..... .
Soap ................ .
Toilet paper
Xotary

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1.65
13.90
51.55
28.00
3,070.65
13.88
11.05
8.00
5.60
2.85
54.60
29.88
9.00
.75

Assessment, Twin
Peaks TunneL ...... ..
Printing ........... .
Disinfectants ........... .
Scavenger ................. .
Taxes, 2d inst. 1913 ..
Drayage ..................... .
Postage ....................... .
Corporation tax, 1914
Personal property
tax, 1914 ................. .

63

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

690.90
92.SO

10.00
45.00
2,242.00

4.00
.50
5.00
22.4!:

Total expenditures .. $1,012,076.54

2,882.95
729.76
4,187.60

Electricity and gas .. .
Fuel oil ....................... .
Miscellaneous bills ..

Cash receipts

$1,012,076.54
722,483.46

Outstanding bills (balance architect's fee)

$289,593.08
14,036.87

Total deficit .................................... .

$303.629.95

EDWARD PEABODY,
Secretary Masonic Temple Association .

The above statement shows the total cost of the building,
lot and furnishings to be.......................................................... $969,243.52

REC:\PITCL:\ TION.
Real Estate .

$257,000.00
571,432.69
Ft1rnishing ··71,017.56
Taxes .................................. .
15.070.29
15,739.45
Interest ...................................................................................... .
23,039.36
Architect
34,616.95
Insurance _
1,978.88
Permit Board of Public \Vorks ........ .
1,002.00
Janitors
...................................................................................... .
4,618.15
Supt. of Construction .........................................................................
5,400.00
2,670.00
Assessment Twin Peaks Tunnel ................................................... .
690.90
Contracts .

Taxes interest insurance, maintenance and miscellaneous
e~penses f:om September 1, 1908, to September 1, 1914..

42,833.02

Total expenditures to date ..............................................$1,012,076.54
The present indebtedness is $303,629.95, distributed as follows:
Savings Union Bank of San Francisco ............ $250,000.00
Crocker National Bank ................ ..................... 40,000.00
Balance due architect .............. ............................. 14,036.87

Cash on hand .................... .

$304,036.87
406.93

The cost of maintenance of the building for the past year is probably in excess of what it will be in the future because some extraordinary expenses incident to a first year's business have been necesEarily
incurred that will not occur again.
The building contains six meeting halls, rented as follows:
Commandery Hall-One regular tenant.
Blue Lodge Hall No. I-Rented 4 tenants.
Blue Lodge Hall No. 2-Rente<l 5 tenants.
Blue Lodge Hall No. 3-Rented 4 te11ants.
Chapter R. A. M. Hall No. 4-Rented 6 tenants.
Chapter 0. E. S. Hall-Rented 7 tenants.

------ - - _{_ __~

PROCEJ.,DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

These bodies now occupying these halls are paying rentals of from
30 to 40 per cent more than they paid to the old Temple Association,
and this, together with the fact that twenty-six Masonic bodies now
occupy space in the ))11ilding, clearly indicates the loyal support of the
San Francisco :\iasoas to the Fraternity in general and their pride in
the Temple.

increasing the per capita tax on its Subordinate Lodges, and to the
end that the Grand Lodge as well as all the stockholders may derive the
benefit of an income at the earliest moment we suggest that the Grand
Lodge provide for the retirement of the indebtedness by pledging itself
to subscribe and pay for stock to the amount of $25,000.00 annually
until the amount is liquidated. We feel assured that this tax on the
Grand Lodge will not continue many years, because the business of the
building will soon commence to be sufficiently profitable to materially
assist in the reduction of the debt.
WM. H. CROCKER,
President Masonic Temple Association of California.

64

The several offices on the top floor arc rented to the Grand Lodge,
the Grand Commandery, Chapter and Council, the Board of Relief, Em-

ployment Bureau and California Lodge, Chapter and Council.
The total rentals for halls and stores amount to about $2,000.00
per month.
Thus far the stores and other space on the ground floor of the
building have not rented, but the rapid encroachment of business
toward Van Ness Avenue and Market Street as a center gives abundant
assurance that the time is not far distant when this part of the building
will bring constantly increasing revenue. The close proximity to the
Civic
the new Municip<tl Street Railroad on Van Ness Avenue,
the opening of the Twin Peaks Tunnel, thereby connecting a large and
rapidly growing residence section with the l\farket Street district, give
promise of early business activity in the vicinity of our building.
At present the most serious problem confronting the Board of
Directors is the reduction of the large indebtedness of over $300,000.00
and its interest cost, which is our hea\•iest burden of expense. The
i\fasonic bodies of San Francisco, with an investment of $241,550.00,
have been generous in their subscriptions to stock, and have purchased
to the extent of their financial ability, and confidence in the ultimate
financial success of the building was further evidenced during the past
year by subscriptions for stock of over $6,000.00 from the Lodges and
individuals.
Many other Masonic bodies as well as brother Masons have also
indicated their pride and interest in the Masonic Temple of our great
State by generorndy subscribing to stock, and they will continue to do
so from time to time, but the burden is heaviest NOvV, and we feel
obliged to ask the assistance of the Grand Lodge to the extent of its
financial ability.
The spkndid bnilding is the :'.\JASO?\IC TEMPLE of our State,
and from loyalty to our great Order it commands the fraternal interest
of every Masonic body and of every Master Mason within our borders.
The Grand Lodge has. for the past few years, annually subscribed to
stock to the amount of from ten to fifteen thousand dollars, without

65

Printed copies being in the hands of Representatives,
the reading of the above report was waived, and it was
referred to the Committee on Finance.

BOARDS OF RELIEF.
The reports of the Boards of Relief of San Francisco
Los Angeles, San Diego and Oakland were presented and
referred to the Committee on Finance, as follows:
SAX FRANCISCO

BOARD OF RELIEF.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of Relief of the city of San Francisco begs

~eave to prese~t the following report for the year beginning August 26,
913, and endmg August 24, 1914, both dates inclusive:
As. will be seen by the figures of our reports in the years past, our
expend1t~res for relief are constantly increasing, the amount of the year
past having been the largest in our history.
T?e .establishing of the Employment Bureau has saved a great deal
of rehef, not only to the Board but also to individual Lodges as the
memb ers. w ho were thus helped would in a great many cases have
'
hac
to be assisted financially.
We take this opportunity of asking the Masters of the various
tdges to discourage the giving of relief by individual members of
dges to strangers, but to ask them to refer all applicants to the
B Oard.

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

RECEIPTS AND DISBURSE1\1EXTS CLASSIFIED BY
JURISDICTIO?\S.
RECElPTS.
UNITED STA'fES.

Refunds from Lodges in California .......................... $2,577.00
From other Jurisdictions in the U. S........................ 6,359.25
From foreign Jurisdictions ........................................
203.92
From Grand Chapter and Grand Commandery of
California on account a dimitted case..............
75.90
3,118.64
From the Grand Lodge ................................. ..
Interest from Johnson bequest fond........................
Interest from banks .................................................... .

Received from
JurisdictionIndiz<iduals. Lodges.
Alabama .' ......................
$2.00
$..............
Arizona
10.00
H•••••••«•<•••••••••••••

Ai:kansas ........................
Colorado ··········-·············

510.00
357.40

Connecticut ....................
Dist. of Columbia..........
Delaware ..........
Georgia ...................

Total receipts
Balance on hand last report.. ..................................... 10,827.20
$24,029.31

Total receipts and balance ................................ ..

DISBURSEMENTS.

For Lodges of California ............................................ $3,790.95
For other Jurisdictions of U. S ..............................

For foreign Jurisdictions ......................................... ..
For dimitted cases .................................................. .
For Lodge unknown ............................ .......................

8,693.80
1,623.15
1,584.40

'l'otal disbursements ....................
Balance on hand ........................ .

7.05
10.50
. ...............
67.85
180.24

Illinois ----·-····--- ...............
Iowa -·········----··················
Indiana ·--··-······-------····----Idaho ···-·····-··········--··-----Kansas . ...........................
Kentucky ........................

···---------····

Louisiana ........................

··········-·----

103.50
10.00
8.00
118.50

Massachusetts -·-·······•• .. •••••••--•••H••
Maine ···-·········-····-----···--·· ...... , .........
Montana
................
Michigan ................ «<•·····
2.25
Minnesota .. ....................
2.10
Missouri ..........................
51.00
Mississippi ....................
5.00
Nebraska ···············
·········----···
New Hampshire ·-········
36.21
Nevada ·-··········-·····-·····-10.00
New York ............
291.43
North Carolina
20.00
New Jersey
H••-•••••••"-••••••••••

360.00

.......................$16,052.30
Total relief .
Rent, salary and incidentals ...............$2,362.06
Telephone and Telegraph......
99.96
Donations to Employment Bureau.... 495.00
Total expenses ..........'.\.................

169.95

2,957.02
19,009.32
............................. $5,019.99

North Dakota
Ohio ································
Oregon ·······-···-···-·········--·
Oklahoma

···••w•Hooooo••••••••

3.00
·----···········

7.00
"•H••••••~••WW•

25.00
55.00
26.30

······----······
46.60
302.50
165.00
122.75
57.65
37.00
50.00
100.00
52.00
85.00
100.00
................
340.00
274.20
24.75
70.00
20.00
369.65
911.95
..... , ..........
170.00
25.00
293.65
526.95
5.00

Recciz·cd
Total.

Disbursements.

$2.00
10.00

$5.00
10.00

25.00
224.95

320.25

33.35
10.50
114.45
482.74
268.50
132.75
65.65
155.50
50.00
100.00
52.00
85.00
100.00
2.25
342.10
325.20
29.75
70.00
56.21
379.65
1,203.38
20.00
170.00
28.00
293.65
533.95
5.00

27.05

.so
330.60
113.70
644.88
260.00
140.75
95.65
393.00
7000
186.00
161.18
147.29
220.00
112.85
307.69
370.95
78.00
70.00
260.56
476.00
1.303.93

..................
170.00
30.50
464.15
548.95
7.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

68
Pennsylvania
Philippine Islands
South Dakota .........
Tennessee

---·-···----·-··

Texas

----··········--

-------··········

Utah ...... ··················
Virginia .........
Washington ..........

II
I

191.00
5.00
15.00

-------·······-·

······--·-······

411.00
20.00
165.00
8.07
25.00
75.00

·······--·--····

17.60

West Virginia
\Visconsin

220.00
15.00
150.00
8.07
25.00
75.00
237.05
25.00

4.00

254.65
25.00
4.00

733.40
23.25
194.00
8.07
27.00
75.00
10.50
267.15
25.00
4.0~)

----

I
I1!

Total
California

-------·········· .

69

GHANll LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$1,338.18
554.23

$5,021.07
2,022.77

$6,359.25
2,577.00

$8,693.80
3,790.95

$1,892.41

$7,043.84

$8,936.25

$12,484.75

Rercfr•cd

Disb11rsc-

Total.

111c11 ts.

Dil\Il1TED.

Received. Disbursed.
California .... .
Michigan ....... .
Nova Scotia ..... .
Scotland
Australia ... .
Ireland ....................... .

$75 90

Total
Lodge unknmvn .

$75.90

$745.00
131.65
255.00
35.00
255.00
113.75
$1,584.40
360.00

---Total l'. S

FORF.TGN.

During the year the following Brethren han been buried with

Reccfr•cd from
}urisdictio11Australia ...... .

flldiridutl/s.

$5.00

Lodges.

5.07

5.07

$12.50
21.15
467.44
8.00
32.00
99.50
479.99
7.00
40.45
22.00
422.05
11.00
.07

$120.92

$203.92

$1,623.15

$..
21.15
25.0J

British Columbia .
England

$5.00
21.15
25.00

Egypt ...
Ireland
l\Iexico
::\ ew Brunswick
l\ ova Scotia ..

7.00

Ontario
Quebec ....
Scotland
Victoria

71.00

\V. Australia .
Total

$83.00

40.45
22.00
7.25

7.00
40.45
22.00
78.25

Masonic honors or their remains shipped acrnrcling to the wislll's of
the families:

1913
Aug. 28 Charles 0. Block ........... Shckinah No. 246.

.......... Philadelphia, Pa.
Sept. 5 Jerry H. Whited ........... Reno :\' o. 13 ............................ Reno, N cv.

19 Charles Beasley.............. l\Iorning St~ir No. 68
..... Stockton, Cal.
21 Charles S. Givens .......... Tehama No. 3......................... Sacramento, Cal.
21 Styles K. Clements ........ Rising Star ::\ o. 83 .................. Forest Hill, Cal.
Oct.

7 Samuel Leon .................. Tuolumne :!\ o. 8....

....... Sonora, Cal.

29 Wm. Green Crandall....Solano Ko. 229......
...... Vallejo, Cal.
30 Lyman C. Taylor. .......... Anchor No. 261
................. Pollock. La.
Nov. 4 Chas - Edvv . Coll.·
· t"1c ''
o• S co ti
))---------- 1'
-'1·an1<-t
j_\ o. 5~1
I -------------------- Cl
• asbO\\,
- ctncI
4 Geo. Wilford SrnitlL .... vVhatcom Xo. 151 ................. Bellingham, vVash.
10 Louis Reel ...................... \Vestern Star No. 2................ Shasta, Cal.

16 Wm. James Herrin ........ Oroville No. 103 ...................... 0roville, Cal.
23 Henry Clay NefL ......... l\lcl\Iillan No. 141.. ................ Cincinnati, 0.
Dec.

3 William Gee .................. Friendship No. 210 ............... San Jose, Cal.
17 Henry W. Taggart ........ l\forning Star No. 68 ........... Stockton, Cal.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

PROCEEDINGS OF TH.E

70

1914
Jan.

FL"h.

Robert Wood ................ Naval No. 87 ...........................Vallejo, Cal.
2 A11dn·w C . .i\IcNicol... ... Union and Crown 1\ o. 103 .... Glasgow, Scotland
14 Ewd. Warren King ........ Ahell Ko. 146 ......................... .Lkiah, Cal.
29 Rich. Chas. Baltrnsch ....Carquinez Xo. 337 ............... Crockett. Cal.
28 Thaddeus P. Tucker .... Anhurn Park No. 789.. .... Chicago, Ill.
5 David A. Joncs .............. Laramic :\o. 3................
... Laramie, ·wyo.
11 Stephen B. .i\foo, e .......... Olive Branch ::\o. 269 ..........Tulare, Cal.
13 James A. Mowbray ..... Hudson River \:o. 607.. . .. :'.'\ewburgh, 1\. Y.
22 Bt:rdctt 0. Eddy .......... \Vestern Star No. 21..
... Youngstown, 0.
26 F. Ceo. J. J\1argetson .... Phoenix Xo. 178 ..................... San Bernardino, Cal.

J\Ich. 4 William Otterson .......... Euclid No. 64............
........ La Junta, Colo.
6 Xc:lson B. Coffman ........ Sotoyomc Xo. 123 .................. Healdsbnrg. Cal.
7 Chas. E. Loomis ......... .J\It. Aetna ?\o. 128........... Keystone, S. Dak.
21 James Gillespie .............. Redwood City Xo. 168 ......... Redwood City, Cal.
22 John W. Reede ............. Tncson Xo.
Ari:-o.
31 Chas. E. Luther ............ \Vestern Star Xo. 100 ........... Clinton, Ia.
Apr.

1 Garrit D. Calhoun .......... Alliquippa ?'\ o.
Pa.
5 \Vm. H. Routledge ........ Palmyra X o. 26....
..... Placerville, Cal.
15 Rich. J. Burnett .............. San Joaquin X o. 19. ·-· ....... Stockton, Cal.
26 Sarni. G. Edwards ....... Oriental ?\o. SL.
........ Newark, X. J.
29 James L. Lambrith ....... Paci tic ?\ o. 50....... ............... Salem, Ore.

May 3 Percy :\Torrison ....... -.... Alameda J'\o. 167 ..
17 John F. Gerber ................ Calistoga No. 233 .. .

......Centerville, Cal.

..Calistoga, Cal.

June 12 John Randolph Avis ...... Holland No. 1.. ..... ·-···· ........... Houston, Tex.

July

18 Laurence J\lcPeak ........ Mt. Jackson Xo. 295_

.. Gucrncville. Cal.

7 A. P. J. Bossell.. ........... Escnria! Xo.
28 John R. Otscn ............... Harmony Ko. 61.. .. ..

.... Denver. Colo.

City, Nev.

Aug. 7 Grenville G. Crnbb ........ Plumbline Xo. 214 .................. Adams, Neb.

MASO:\"IC E:\IPLOYJ\IENT BUREAU.
Report of ·work from September 1, 1913, to Augcst 31, 1914.
Applications received: San Francisco, 317; California, 254; other
Jurisdictions, 866; total, 1,437.
A number of the above applicants were provided with temporary
' employment and applied again for positions, consequently to obtain the
actual number of applicants subtract: For San Francisco, 37; California, 21; other Juri~dictions, 103; total, 161.

Leaving total applications received, 1,276.
Positions secured: Temporary, 262; permanent, 551, total, 813.

EXPENSES.

Salaries
Rent ·······················-··· ............... . --·------- ................................... ···········-----Postage -············"······················································ ................................... .
Printing, stationery, etc ............. ········--····-................ ..
Telephone .... ......................................... .................... .
Total .....

••••••o"'""""""""""""""*'"•••••••••oH . . o.

JOHN HAZLETT,
Chairman.

95.00

$1,734.45

Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR JOEL,
President.

LEO BRUCK.
Secretary.

••••••••• . . . . . . .

70.10
204.35

These expenses arc defrayed by donations from Islam 1'emple, A. A.
0. N. M. S.; San Francisl:o Bodies, A. A. S. R.; California Bodies,
A. A. S. R.; California Commandery No. 1, K. T.; Golden Gate Comma11dery No. 16, K. T.; San Francisco Commandcry N"o. 41, K. T.; San
Francisco Chapter l\: o. 1, R. A . .l\I.; California Chapter ?'\ o. 5, R. A. M.:
Mission Chapter No. 79, R. :\. l\1.; Pyramid Xo. 1, A. E. 0. Sciots;
Masonic Board of Relief.

Total, 43.
Respectfully submitted,

••••••+o••oo••••••••--.••••

165.00

Wl\L H. l\ITTCHELL,
Secretary.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOS ANGELES BOARD OF RELIEF.

DEATHS.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

During the year ending August 31st, 1914, the following 75 Masons
or members of their families have passed to their final reward, and their
remains have been given burial with Masonic honors, or shipped according to the wishes of the families, viz. :

The Masonic Board of Relief. of the City of Los Angeles, herewith
presents the following report of its labors from September 1, 1913, to
,\ugust 31, 1914:
OFFICERS.
President .................................................................. Brother JOHN HlLL BEAN
Vice-President ........................................................ Brother DANA RErn \;VELLER
Treasurer ........................................................ Brother MoTLEY HUGHES FLINT
Secretary ·············································f-···Brother JOHN MARCUS DUNSMOOR
We have no apology to offer for the work of our Board during the
past year.
\Ve have done our duty as we saw it. \Ve believe that,all worthy
calls have been answered, and in several instances the broad plain of
l-l umanitv has been iiwadcd and the mantle of Charity has been extended t~ the widow and her children whose lack of Masonic standing
has been forfeited through no fault of theirs.
The 1111fortnnate condition existing in ::\Iexico has sent many people
into our midst in destitute condition who were in affluence before war
began in their republic.
There has been an unusual number of unworthy individuals applying for aid, and it has taken the greatest of care to avoid imposition. and
it has been our sorrow that we have felt it our duty to place several
men in custody, because of their dishonest practices.
IN\' AL IDS.

Brethren: This is no place for a really sick man, unless he has
plenty of means and is willing to part with his money. He can't live
on climate alone, and before any of the corporations will employ him
he must pass a severe physical examination. The examining physician
docs his work thoroughly and gives the corporation the benefit of the
doubt. A man over forty years of age has very little show for any
position.
Our l\fasonic Employment Durcau is doing a great work. The
manager reports the number of applications during the year.
Applications: l\Ten, 1118; womrn, 242; total, 1360.
Positions fillcll: l\fcn, 657; women, 106; total, 763.
The above represents good positions secured, lmt docs not include
minor nr temporary jobs of a few hours to a few days duration, of
which latter there were 1908.

l

73

LOCATION.
LODGE AND NO.
DATE OF DEATH
NAME.
Frisscll
Mount
Tom
Holyoke,
Mass.
Aug. 30, 1913
Henry C.
Saint George 16 Warren, Maine
30,
Alden A. Spear
William Wallace Allen San Diego 35
San Diego, Cal.
Sept. 3, "
Union 7
Denver, Colo.
Elisha M. Finehout
9, "
Hennepin 4
Minneapolis. l\Iinn.
Clarence Waterman
20, "
Ancient 49
Dundee, Scotland
William H. Hudson
26,
George H. Stratton
Wilcox 10
Wilcox, Ariz.
Oct. 7,
William Morgan Ragan Waukegan 78
Waukegan, Ill.
15, "
Mrs. M. F. Finletter
El Paso 130
El Paso, Tex.
15,
Charles H. Welch
Western Star 2
Little Rock, Ark.
Nov. 2,
Calvin Henry Catlin
Elgin, Ill.
Elgin 117
3,
Frederick Midgley
5, "
Golden Rule 726 Chicago, Ill.
Samuel Luther Vail
Waterloo 105
Waterloo, Iowa
4, "
Albert ]. Daniels
Los Angeles 42
Los Angeles, Cal.
10, "
Arthur E. Carr
Home 508
Chicago, Ill.
18, "
A. Lynn Johnson
Good Hope, W. Va.
Jackson 35
22, "
Decason D. Briggs
West Union 69
West Union, Iowa
27, "
James S. Lakin
Phoenix 62
Rushville, Ind.
30, "
William E. Norton
Gothic 852
East St. Louis, Ill.
Dec. 2, "
John H. Hulff
Nor folk, l'\ eb.
Mosaic 55
5, "
William F. Snodgrass
Depauw 338
New Albany, Incl.
7, "
William P. Dewey
California 1
San Francisco, Cal.
9, "
Mrs. Ada Paley
St. Cecile 568
N cw York City, N. Y.
13, "
John Wilson
Hennepin 4
Minneapolis, l\Iinn.
17, "
Ruby W. Myer
Osceola 77
Osceola, Iowa
20,
John A. Mitchell
Chandler 57
Chandler, Okla.
25,
Marcellus ]. Powers
St. Johns 11
\Vashington, D. C.
26, "
William S. Fowles
Charity 331
St. J oscph, :\Io.
28, "
Thomas Mattingly
Miami 85
Miami, Mo.
Jan. 1, 1914
Mrs. Isabelle Bruesch
Wasatch 1
Salt Lake City, Utah
11, "
Charles T. Lacey
D. C. Creiger 643 Chicago, Ill.
10, "
Guy H. Sutherlin
Temple 6
Albuquerque, N. Mex.
11, "
James P. Ford
Evening Star 30 Pomeroy, Wash.
28, "
Mrs. Sarah Smith
Liberty 299
Santa Clara, Cal.
29, "
Thomas Jesse Barbre
Hartford 193
Hartford, Kas.
31, "

..
..
..
..
..

'

..

..

------------·--------

74

PROCBE:DINGS OF TIIE

NAME.

LODGE AND NO.

GIL\NIJ LODGJ~ OF CALIFORNIA

75

DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIP'rs AND DTSHURSE~I(X'fS.
LOCATJO:"'r.

DATE OF DEATH

Newton 142
Newton, Kas.
Feb. 8, 1914
Henry Clay Forrester
David Anderson Wood St. John, Dalmuir Dumbartonshire, Scot. " 20,. "
Superior 236
Superior, vVis.
Mch. 8, H
Charles E. Herzog
Alta 333
Bridgeport, Cal.
12, ··
Arthur H. Laws
Columbia 14
Boulder, Colo.
13, "
J olm S. Chambers
Sisco 259
Westport, N. Y.
15, "
Richard Williams
Boise 2
Boise, Idaho
15, "
Edwanl E. Garrett
Vv'hite .Mountain 3 Globe, Ariz.
18, "
Charles A. Hanson
Burlington 100
Burlington, Vt.
" 23, "
Dr. W. G. Church
\.Vhite
Mountain
3
Globe.
Ariz.
Apr.
15, "
E11gene A. Robertson
George Hancock
Perfection 9
Calgary, Alberta
15, ..
;\[n;_ Anna Shisley
Rome City 451
Rome City, lml.
" 20, "
Charles Goldenwire
Collins 19
Ft. Collins, Colo.
23, "
Charles T. Pemberton Bear \Vallow 231 Horse Cave, Ky.
25, "
Frank Oehler
Hoffner 253
Cincinnati, Ohio
May 1, "
Joscph :vL Starr
Speculative 307
Cherokee, lo\\- a
2, "
J-1arry B. Buttel
St. Albans 68
N e\vark. K. J.
" 4, "
D;nid Dillon Downir
Denver 5
Denver, Colo.
" 22, "
:\l rs. Edwin F. Green
Englewood 690
Chicago, Ill.
26, "
Will Irving Smith
Apollo 642
Chicago, lll.
" 28, "
George Burgess
Tehachapi 313
Tehachapi, Cal.
June 2, "
Guy Ernest Fairly
Ternescal 314
Corona, Cal.
"
2, "
?\apicr Hcrhert Jackson Jonie 25
"Winnipeg, :\Ianitoba
" 11, "
ln.vin \rVinliekl Heilig
Buckeye 195
Winters, Cal.
" 15, "
Ferdinand S. Phillips
l\forning Dawn 7 Gallipolis, Ohio
17, "
Henry Alhcrt Dering
Ashlar 111
Ft. Dodge, Iowa
" 19, "
i\rthur 'H. \Voochvard Oak GTOVC 215
..AJan1eda, Cal.
a
27, "
W. T. Hill
Covenant 526
Chicago, Ill.
July 19, "
James Church
Passnmpsic 27
St. Johnsbury, Vt.
Aug. 1, "
John R. Barry
Barney Merry 29 Pawtucket, R. I.
4, "
John C. Judy
Sumner 334
Sumner, Ill.
7, "
James L. Gill
Silver City 8
Silver City, N. :VIex.
4, "
Joseph L. Luse
El Paso 130
EI Paso, Tex.
July 21, "
Lee L. Harpham
Occidental 22
San Francisco, Cal. Aug. 6, "
Charles E. Devilbiss
Sequoia 349
Oakland, Cal.
July 13, "
Horace C. Gerber
Hiram 5
Par'! Chihuahua,Mex. Aug. 9, "
Arthur G. Nichols
Richard Cole 697 Chicago, Ill.
16, "
Charles :VL McCabe
Temple 84
Denver, Colo.
" 23, "
Fred Ci. l\IcI(inley
Standard 873
Chie:1g·o, 111.
25, "
Clara Branclt(daughter) Constellation 892 Chicago, Jll.
" 28, "

CLASSIFIED BY JURISDIC'f!ONS.

Paid.
Alabama_ ................ ,

················ .......$

Alberta ....
Arizona
Arkansas ............. .
Australia .
British Columbia ..... .
California
Canada .......... .
Colorado
Connecticut ... .
Delaware ........ .
Egypt ...... .
England .. .
Florida ..... .
Georgia ..... ,. ..
Germany
Hungary
Idaho ..
I!Hnois .............. ..
Indiana ..
Iowa .......... ,. ..... ,. ........ ,. ..
Ireland ... .
Kansas .................... .
Kentucky ,. .......
Louisiana ..
Maine ...... .
Manila ....... ..
Manitoba
Maryland
Massachusetts
Mexico ...........
Michigan ........ .
l\tlinnesota ....................... .
Mississippi ............ , ............................... .
l\tiissouri ............................................................................. .

Received.

326.00 $ 15.00
53.00
9.00
444.00
348.20
110.00
25.00
19.70
22.00
1,925.25 1,247.85
290.25
35.00
679.20
415.00
32.50
8.50
53.50
10.00
183.70
60.00
148.00
50.00
117.00
70.00
103.00
25.00
43.50
20.00
2,172.50 1,861.65
473.25
454.65
683.10
438.10
35.00
6.00
585.70
413,85
420.00
201.50
227.50
138.00
70.00
32.00
5.00
22.00
22.25
221.35
77.00
163.60
102.00
227.60
5.00
329.00
120.00
503.80
149.00
165.40
45.00
468.95
356.95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

76

Paid.
j\f ontana

Nebraska
Nevada _-------------------N cw Brunswick
::\cw Hampshire
New Jersey ____ _
New Mexico
::\cw York _
::\cw Zcalancl
::\ orth Carolina
Nor th Dakota

i'
I

Kova Scotia
Ohio __ _
Oklahoma
Oregon __
Pennsylvania
Peru
Prince Edward Island
Rhode Island ___

------------------ --------------------

Scotland ------------Sonth Africa _
South Carolina ___ _
South Dakota _
Sweden
Tennessee __
Texas ___ _
Utah
Vermont
Virginia ____ _
\Vales __ _
\Vashington, D. C. ·---------·-·----\\';d1i11g!o11 St;1tC"
\\\·st Virginia
\\'isco1hin
\\' yorning

60.00
10900
89.SO
91.75
30.00
147.m
125.00
1,465.25
60.00
57.50
92.00
40.0D
962.40
486.20
186.00
312.67
17.50
10.00
47.00
297.50
12.50
20.0'.l
150.00
17.50
180.0J
851.80
168.00
53.00
25.00
5.00
388.00
393.50
311.50
142.Sll
60.00

Rcccin'(l.

77

CASH RECEIVED FROM THE LOS ANGELES, CAL., CITY LODGES.

Los Angeles Lodge No. 42........... ·---·--·-·----------··-··---------·-···---·---·

50.00
45.00
61.75
115.00
30.00
1,073.90
22.00
60.00
682.72
110.00
163.00
245.17

4.87
3.00
112.00
20.00
314.65
50.00
10.00
392.00
267.00
231.50
50.00

$18,801.92 $10,862 06

----$ 442.58
481.20
645.36
629.28
East Gate Lodge No. 290..... ·-···························-·Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319_ -----------··········- --·---------·-·······
636.75
South Gate Lodge No. 320................... ·-···-····
675.64
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329 ................. --------············ ----·--···------··
93.56
West Gate Lodge No. 335 ....................... ··-··············--·· -----··················-- 383.12
275.28
Palestine Lodge No. 351... .. ·--·--···-··-···················- ------···········-Sunset Lodge No. 352............................. ·-·--··------··········-340.40
Golden State Lodge No. 358 ................. ------·--·-----········
361.72
Mizpah Lodge No. 378 .......................... _. ______ --··········-··
354.80
273.60
Highland Park Lodge No. 382.·--·----···--·-················-- _____ -------··-·
450.24
West Lake Lodge No. 392................. __ ··-·--------- ___ ··············-·
124.72
University Lodge No. 394·--·············-·······················--···------·-·
Moneta Lodge No. 405 ...................................... ----------·-·-·······-·······-······· 230.16
124.80
San Pedro Lodge No. 332 .................. ----------···--·· ·--·-···········---·-········---52.44
Wilmington Lodge No. 198...... ·-·······-·-·------------------······················
246.40
Hollywood Lodge No. 355-.. .. ·--········-······························---- ······-- __ --···
90.24
Arlington Lodge No. 414---··············---·-··Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 ........ .
114.00
Elysian Lodge No. 418 ................ .
130.16
24.56
Germania No. 438·-·-·--··-·········-···· ·-·-·········· -·-·············-··26.24
Wilshire, U. D.·-································-···- --·---····-··· ------------···················
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202-------------------·-----·-···-·---·-·---·-----····-··--··-·--····-·····
Southern California Lodge No. 278 .................. ·-···----·-·--·········

$7,208.25
RECAPITULATION
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand, September 1, 1913.·-···········-·········----$ 523.80
Received from Grand Lodge of California_____
4,000.00
Received from Los Angeles City Lodges.........
Received from Sister Jurisdictions ---·Rec€ived from Interest, Rents, etc. ______ _
Total---··-···---·----·-··-··-··-·--·--------·------··-----···--·-··-·-··-·

7,208.25
10,862.06
135.37
$22,729.48

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODG.E OF CALIFORNIA

DISBURSEMENTS.
...........................................$ 3,153.01
Paid Expense Account ..
Paid l\Iasonic Employment Bureau ..............................
300.00
Paid Classified by Jurisdictions .................................... 18,801.92
Total ............................................................................ ..

$22,254.93

Balance September 1, 1914................................ .

$

474.55

All of which is respectfully submitted.
]. H. BEAN, President.

Attest:
]. :\I. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.

SAN DIEGO BOARD OF RELIEF.

To the Jfost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The l\fasonic Board of Relief of San Diego herewith presents a
report of its work cowring the period from September 1, 1913, to
August 31, 1914, inclusive.
The past year has Leen the most active in the history of this Board,
the number of cases handled and the amount of money spent for the
relief of sojourning brethren, their widows and orphans, far exceeding
that of any prC1·io11s year.
The percentage of refunds from IOllges primarily responsible for
cases handled this year has been good, and the Secretary, by systematic correspondence, was able to straighten out several old accounts,
some of which had run for two or three years.
We do not as yet maintain a regular Employment Bureau, but the
Secretary has been successful in placing quite a number of men and
women in positions. 11oth permanent am! temporary.
During the past year our Board has consisted of four lodges,
namely: San Dic?o :\ o. 35. :')ih·cr Cate Ko. 296, Blackmer, U. D., and
Coronado, U. D. The officers are Eclgar B. Levi, President; Arthur
A. Mathewson. Vice Presiclent; .'\. n. Haxton, Secretary, and John F.
Covert, Treasurer.
The following twenty-one brethren have been buried under the
auspices of this Bo;1rd, or their remains shipped according to wishes of
relatives:

NAME
William Viereck
]. F. Folliard
]. L. Ward
Fred Klintborn
Walter]. Godfrey
James King, Sr.
Wm. C. Hewitt
Geo. S. Hopkins
Nelson E. Nelson
Daniel C. Bond
W. H. McClure
Geo. E. Paterson
Carl Reidelsberger
Chas. W. Buker
Chas. W. Hawks
Francis Knight
John Carrier
Geo. A. Dickens
Chas. P. Jones
Geo. W. Cushing
Henry E Klamer

79

LODGE
LOCATION
DATE
Sept. 10, 1913
Washington 46
Portland, Ore .
Sept. 12, 1913
Alkali 152
Seattle, Wash.
Sept. 29, 1913
Yuma 17
Yuma, Ariz.
Aberdeen, Wash.
Oct. 3, 1913
Aberdeen 52
Durango 46
Durango, Colo.
Oct. 16, 1913
Oct. 24, 1913
Laramie, Wyo.
Laramie 3
San Fernando 343 San Fernando, Cal. K ov. 10, 1913
Centra!City,S.Dak. Dec. 18, 1913
Central City 22
Pembin2. 2
Pembina, N. Dak. Dec. 29, 1913
Rob Morris 46
Kearney, ~ eb.
Jan. 10, 1914
Canyon City, Colo. Jan. 14, 1914
Mt. Moriah 15
No. Light40
Jan. 15, 1914
Maumee, Ohio.
Feb. 25, 1914
Capitol 110
Des .Moines, Ia.
l\Iar. 23, 1914
~ estell 37
Providence, R. I.
Apr. 23, 1914
Arizona 2
Phoenix, Ariz.
Apr. 27, 1914
Cortez 133
Cortez, Colo.
White Face Mt.789 Saranac Lake,N.Y. l\Iay 6, 1914
Aurora 48
Portsmouth, Ohio July 1, 1914
July 11, 1914
Ashland 23
Ashland, Ore.
Aug. 14, 1914
Euclid 194
::\Iadison, Maine
Livingston 32
Livingston, Mont. Aug. 18, 1914

The receipts of the year were divided as follows:
RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand September 1, 1913..................................................... $ 205.37
Grand Lodge appropriation .................................................................... 1,000.00
Collected on accounts due previous to September 1, 1913............

786.70

Collected on accounts due during the period September 1,
1913-August 31, 1914........................................................................ 2,239.10
Blue Lodge clues ...................................................................................... 824.17
From demitted Mason..............................................................................
15.00
Interest and donations..............................................................................
50.19
Total ....................................................................................................$5,120.53

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The receipts and disbursements in the several jurisdictions were
as follows:
Paid
Receive<l
Arizona ............................. .
............$ 202.30
$ 193.00
Australia ........................................... .
Austria ................................ .

20.00
35.00
145.75
424.30
5.00
429.45
10.00
6.10
115.35
5.00
18.00
8.75
21.00
165.00

California ..... ........... ....... ................................ .
Colorado .............................................. .
England ............................ ..
Illinois ..... .
Indiana ..... .
Iowa ....................................... .
Kansas .
Louisiana ...................... ..
:Maine ...................................................... .
Massachusetts
Mexico ........... ..
Minnesota
:Mississippi .................................................................... .
Montana ........................................................................ .
Nebraska ...................................................... ..
Nevada ......................................................................... ..
Xew York ................................................................... .
North Dakota
....................................................... ..
Ohio ............................................................................... .
Oregon .................................................................... .
Pennsylvania
.............................................. .
Peru .............................................................. ..

RECAPITULATION.

Receipts.
Balance September 1, 1913 ..... .
Grand Lodge
S~n Diego Lodge :t\ o. 35 ...... .

142.75
221.90
5.00

Silver Gate Lodge l\o. 296.
Blackmer Lodge, U. D..
Corcnado Lodge, U. D .. ..
Lodges in California ..... .
Other jurisdictions in tr. S ..
Foreign jurisdictions ........................ .

388.90

125.35

Refunded by individuals .............. .
Refunded 011 funerals ......... ..
Demitted .'.lfasons
Donations and intc-rest.. ............................. .

19.0'.l

$5,120.53

Total

163.00

2.00
70.10
20.00

69.00

97.00

Disbursements.

57.00
20.00

7.00

65.00
5.50

260.10
344.55

285.00
354.55

96.50

91.00
S.00

South Dakota .............................................................. .
Texas ............................................................................. .

24.00
9.34
32.50
368.60
10.00

Washington ................................................................... .
Wyoming .......................................................... .

84.10
13.10

20.11
325.00
10.00
31.00
10.00

$3,033.39

$2.658.30

Rhode Island ............................................................ .
Scotland .......................................................... .

.. $ 205.37
1,000.00
615.50
521.42
27.25
27.50
112.75
1,720.00
49.11
321.05
455.39
15.00
50.19

3.50
Members in
Other jurisdictions in U. S.
Foreign jurisdictions ................................. .
Widows and orphans ......... .
Funerals
Demitted Mason ......... .

8.00

Philippine Islands ....................................................... .
Quebec, Canada ............................................ .

81

14.00
9.24

,

Charity ........................... .
Expense account
Total

119.75
1.802.74
145.50
370.20
595.20
10.00
10.00
645.91
$3,699.30

Balance September 1.
Respectfully submitted,

A. B. HAXTON,
Secretary.
'Approved:
EuGAR

n. I.EvI,
President.

82

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

83

DISBURSEMENTS.

OAKLAND BOARD OF RELIEF.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith respectfully
presents its annual report, from Se1)tcmb('r 4, 1913, to September 2,
1914, inclusive:
The Board is composed of the Master and Wardens of the various
Lodges in the city of Oakland.

For the relief of needy and sick brethren and burial... ...............$ 2,607.87
For the relief of needy and sick widows and orphans................ 1,634.13
For the establishment of labor hureau......................
124.85
Expense account . .... .......................................... .....................
831.51

Balance in Treasury September 2, 1914........................... .

$10.528.13

The officers elected to sen·e until the first Wednesday in January,
1915, arc as follows:
Earle V. Stevenson, Chairman;
Chas. C. Fien, Treasurer;
Robt. G. Evans, Secretary.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from September 4,
1913, to September 2, 1914, inclusive, are as follows:
RltCEJPTS.

Live Oak Lodge No. 61... ........... .
Oakland Lodge No. 188........................ .

.. $445.75
.. 337.40
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225........
. ........................... 234.05
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244......
.................... 253.00
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336............ ....................
...... 182.90
Sequoia Lodge No. 349.............................................. 274.65
Bay View Lodge No. 401....................
112.80
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403.............
90.75
Standard Lodge, U. D. ...................... .................
30.65
Refttnded by Lodges in California .............. .
Refunded by Lodges in other jurisdictions ............................. .
Refunded by individuals ..................................... .
Interest on money deposited in bank. .................... .

$ 1,961.95
1,586.45
1,463.70
391.35
95.88

$ 5,499.33
Balance in Treasury September 4, 1913.................................. .

5,028.80
$10,528.13

$ 5,198.36
.... 5,329.77

The sum of $4,242.00, reported as disbursed for relief to brethren,
their widows and orphans, was distributed as follows:
California .................................................................. .25 cases
$1,872.87
\Vashington ............................................................... 2
70.00
Indiana .......................................................................... 2
204.40
South Dakota ............................................................ 2
70.00
Idaho ............................................................
...... 1 case
218.58
Pennsylvania ........................................................... 2 cases
17.00
New York .............................
........ 12
203.65
Michigan ...................................................................... 6
153.00
Louisiana ·········'· .......................................................... 2
30.00
Missouri ....................................................................... 2
30.00
1"1assachusetts ............................................................ 2
15.00
Ohio ............................................................................ 3
68.25
Kansas ....................
.. ................................. 3
54.60
Oregon .......................................................................... 2
252.25.
Kentucky .....................................
.................... 1 case
22.50
Illinois .......................................................................... 2 case.>
131.75
New Jersey ................................................................. 1 case
20.00
North Dakota .............
................... 1
5.00
District of Columbia................................................. 1
75.00
Colorado ...................................................................... 2 cases
312.60
Arizona ............................ ........................................... 1 case
15.00
England ...................................................................... 4 cases
33.00
Australia .......... .......... .................................................. 2
15.00
Scotland ........................................................................ 6
93.80
British Columbia ............
.. .............. 4
154.00
Mt!,x:ico ........................................................................ 2
4.75

91 cases

$4,242.00

84

GIL\NI J LUlJGJ<; OF CALIFORNL\

l'l:OCJ<;i.;JJINUS OF TJii.;

The su1ll of $1,463.70 was rdundccl as follows:
Albion Loclge No. 5, :!'\ova Scotia ..
Mystic Tie Lodge :\o. 398, Indianapolis, Incl ..
Chico Lodge >lo. 508, Chico, Texas ..
Elsmore Loclge :\o. 30, :\It. Home, Iclaho ...
l\Iorgansficld Lodge :!'\ o. 66, Kentucky ...
Lincoln Lodge No. 19, Lincoln, Ncli..
St. Ignace Lodge :\ o. 3f9, St. Ignace, .!\I ich .. .
Clay Lodge Xo. 207, Excelsior Springs, :\lo .... .
Garrett Wyckoff Lodge :!'\ o. 585. Lima, Ohio .. .
Denver Loclge ); o. 5, Denver, Colo ....
Capital City Lodge l\o. 308, Capital City, Incl ..
.\cloniram Lodge 1\o. S17. ,\kron, Oh;o .
Shoshone Lodge Xo. 2S, \Vallacc, Idaho ...
c\shland Lodge No. 23, Ashland, Ore ..
D. C. Crcgicr Lodge X o. 643, Chicago, Ill.. .
Fortitude Loclge :\o. 19, Brooklyn, N. Y ..
Hope Lodge ~o. 20, \Nashington, D. C ..
Ashlar Lodge :\ o. 308, Chicago, 111 ....
Ivy Loclge >! o. 397, Elmira, :!'\. Y. .
Cedar Lodge :\ o. 12:1, Belle Fourche, S. Dak..
Union Lodge ~o. 9, Xew vVcstminster, B. C ..
Michigan Lodge I\ o. SO, Jackson, :\Ii ch ..
Bay City Lodge X o. 129, Bay City, l\Iich
Elgin Lodge No. 98, Elgin, Ore ..
Union Lodge Ko. 7, Denver, Colo ..

April

...... $

42.90
92.40
12.00
14.30
12.50
77.60
75.00
25.00
3.25
4.50
84.00
55.00
215.00
2.2S
22.SO
95.00
7S.OO
80.00
14.60
70.00
4.0D
10.00
25.00
250.00
101.90

$1,463.70
During the pe1·iocl covered by this report the following named
brethren have been buried with l\lasonic honors uncler the anpiccs of
this Hoard:
1913
Sept. 13-0scar Xowak, Cedar Ledge ?\o. 12'1, Helle Fourche, S. Dak.
:\(ff. 10-T. R. Stevenson, Elmore Loclge Xo. 304, :\lountain H ornc,
Idaho.
Dec. 29-E. D. Kitchen, Delano Lodge 1'\o. 309, Delano, Cal.
1914
Jan.
5-H. C. \Velb, Fresno Lodge Xo. 247, Fresno, Cal.
5-E. ll. lll<>wns, St. Ignace L<><lgc :\ll. 369, St. Ignace, l\lich.
Jan.
Jan. 12-Cco. C. l'attdl, :\l·\ada Lodge :\o. 13, :\cva<la City, l'<Ll.
:\l; 1r. 1.2-C. Garilialdi, La Concorde Lr dge, Lo11clo11, Englancl.
l\Iar. 30-James \\'ilson, lately of Uakbml L()(lgc No. 188, Oaklaml,
Cal.

35

4-Job Webb, D. C. Crcgier Lodge :\ o. 643, Chicago, Ill.

May 21-W. F. Jackson, Ashlar Lodge No. 348, Chicago, Ill.
June 27-Chas. T. Harton, Tehama Lodge I'{ o. 3, Sacramento, Cal.
July 13-:'.\. 0. Tanquary, L'nion Ledge -:\o. 7, Dem·er, Colo.
Aug. 22-J;rn1cs Lawson, Silver G:1te L()(l:·c :\ o. 296, San Diego, Cal.
RonT. G. Ev.\NS,
Secretary.

REPORT

or l\L\SO:\IC E:\IPLOY:\IE:'.\T llURE:\U
OF O:\KL\ND.
Prcsidcnt-G. D. \Varrcn.
Trcasurer-L. L. Cummow.
Secrctary-C. L. Foster.

Offices-J\Jasonic Temple, Twelfth ancl \Va:;hin",ton Streets, Oakland,
California. Office hours from 1 to 5 p. 111.
Telephone Oakland 335.
KEPORT I'OR SIX MONTHS F.NDING .1uc;c,;T 1, 1914
Applications registered during six months ..
354
Members of Lodges in east bay cities .................. .
146
Members of Lodges from other points ..
208
Positions secured (more or less permanent) ..
217
Applicants still employed in original position secured or
with same employer ................... .
132
Number of clays work at odd jobs ( 42 positions) ...
235
Number of different trades or vocations represented ..
62

Applicants for positions-354
17 to 2S years of age
68
25 to 35 years of age
90
3S to 4S years of age
103
45 to SO years of age
23
SO to 55 years of age
28
S5 yrs. of age and over 42
Totals

354

19'/r
26'/,

29'/r
7"/r
7'/r
12r/r

41%
59%
60%
38%

Positions Sccure<l-217
54
.............. .25%
CO
................. 27'/c
................... 30'/r
6'l
13 ...................................... 6C/c
15 ................. ··········
8'/c
7..
4%

217

Cost of operating the l\ncau: Secn·tarJ 's s;dary, printing,
telephone, street car and ferry fare, janitor sen·icc, etc ......... $798.3~
Cost of each position securecl (odd jobs not included)..............
3.68

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

In addition to the above the Bureau has furnished hoarders and
roomers for 1\lasons' widows and has given general information to
all inquirers.
Respectfully submitted,
~hsoKIC EMPLOY:l!EKT BUREAU.

C. L. Fosnrn, Secretary.

Claims for reimbursement for account of relief extended were presented from the Illinoistown Lodge "'.'\ o. 51
and St. Helena Lodge X o. 93, and they were referred to
the Committee on Finance.

The Grand ;,raster reported that the Grand Lodge of
Illinois would this night, in the City of Chicago, celebrate
the seventv-fifth anniversary of its organization; and on
motion of .the Deputy Gran~l :.Taster a Special Committee
was appointed to draft and transmit a telegram of felicita·
tion to that Grand Body. The Committee appointed consisted of Past Grand :.\I asters Patton. Perine and Lucas.
The Committee subsequently reported that they had
caused the following telegram to be transmitted:
SAN lCRANClSCO, C.\L .. October 13, 1914.

Grand Lodge, Free a11d Accepted Maso11s of llliuois,
Ill.:
The Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted }fasons of California, assembled in its Sixty-fifth Annual Communication in San Francisco,
felicitates the Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted l\fas011s of 11linois, upon
its celebration of the sewnty-lifth anni1-crsary of its constitution. And
it takes this cccasion to congratulate Masonry in general upon the magc
nitiecnt work accomplished for the good of the Craft by the Grand
Lodrre of lllinok It expn">S3CS its hope that your Grand T.odge will continu: to prosper, and its conlidence that it will he in the future as it
has been in the past a great power for good in the l\lasonic world.
JoHN \VmcHER,

Grand Secretary.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 :00

o'clock this afternoon,

.
i

Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 13, 1914.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock . the Grand
Master presiding.
REPORT OF COl\ll\IITTEE OX GRA;\"D MASTER'S ADDRESS
AXD GRAl\"D SECRETARY'S REPORT.
To the M .". UI." · Gra11d Lodge of California:
Your committee to which was referred the address of the Grand
Master and the report of the Grand Secretary, submitted to the Grand
Lodge at this session, begs leave to report as follows:
Your committee desires to commend the able and instructh·e manner in which the M .". \V .". Grand Master has covered the various topics
touched upon in his comprehensive address. and the true Masonic spirit
evinced in the various recommendations therein contained. Your committee is
impressed with that part oi the Address dealing
with the advi9ability of removing the ban to membership in our beneficent Order occasioned through mere physical disahility, and having in
mind that the Craft is de;:;ling with speculative and ·not operative
Masonry this Committee most heartily concurs in the recommendations
of the M.". \V.", Grand Master in that respect. Your Committee also,
desires to express its appreciation of the vast amount of time and
labor given the Order hy· the Grand :\faster during the last year, particularly in the matter of visiting subordinate Lodges.
This committee recommends the careful reading of the entire
Address by every member of the Grand Lodge, and that copies of same
be sent to each subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction.
Your committee recommends the
distribution of the
various matters touched upon in the address:
To the Committee on Jurisprudencc:
The matter of conviction' of Masons of this jurisdiction hy Masonic
tribunals of other jurisdictions as discussed on pages 16 and 17 of the
address.
The matter of Masonic funerals, as discussed on page 28 of the
address.
To the Finance Committee:
'fhe subject of endowment funds and of l\fasonic Homes . discussed
on pages 20, 21 and 22 of the address.

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND LODGJ~ OF CALIFORNIA

The subject of Temple
as treated on pages 27 and 28
of the address.
The subject <if relief work troubles, treated on pages 22, 23 a11cl 24
of the address.
To the Committee on Juri-;prudence:
The subject of :\ati(Jnal Crawl Lodge of France, as found c,,, page

20 of the report.
REPOR'r OF V. W. GRAND SECRF.TARY.

Mindful of the sad lwrcavcment of the Grand Secretary, and his
faithfulness notwithstanding lo the many duties of his office, we hereby
commend for the same and we hereby offer the following resolution
and recommend its adoption by this Grand Lodge:
\;VHJO:RF.AS, It has pleased the Supreme Grand ]\faster of the

Universe to deprive our Brother John Whichcr. the v:. w:.
Grand Secretary, of the love, comfort and earthly companionship of his wife and comrade, we offer him herewith such consolation as fraternal affection and esteem can bring, and hope
that time will soften the pang, leaving only loving remembrances to comfort him on his useful journey through life.

111

vVe recommend the following lfotribution of the matters contained
the Grand Secretary's report:

To the Comniittec on Jurisprudence:
The subject of special dispensations.
To the Finance Committee:
The subject of special emergency relief funds and the subject of
Ohio relief fund.
The subject of warrants and the subject of accounts.
To the Committee on Grievances and Appeals:
Transcripts of trial records.
To the Committee on Charters :
The charters of the various Lodges tm(h;r dispensation.
To the Committee on By· Laws:
Proposed amendments to by-laws heretofore approved hy the
Grand Master, and other amendments to hy-lav.rs oi various subordinate Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,
G. l\L HARD(NllROOK,

:w. J. KF.UBURG,
\VAL1'ER

F. HAAS,
Committee.

89

REPORT OF THE CO~BUTTEE OF THE STATE Ol~
THE WAR IN ECROPE AND THE RELIEF OF
THE BRETHREX WHO ARE THEREIX
ENGAGED.
Brother Otto L. Sues from the Special Committee
heretofore appointed by the Grand Master to formulate a
report relative to our duty in the matter of relief to the
sufferers in Europe on account of the devastating war
now being ·waged, reported as follov.:s:
To the ~;i:t:. rv:. Gra11d Lodge of California.
Your committee to whom has been referred the investigation and
consideration of affairs >.Tasonic in war torn Europe, and the relief
of the brethren and their families therein engaged, beg leave to submit
the following report:
Your committee met in pursuance with the call of the chairman
and thoroughly considered a comnmnicatioll from the Grand Lodge of
Masons of Oregon and a printed report from the Grand Lodge of
England, being the only accessible data on the subject, and while we
are convinced that, as stated in the address of the Grand Master to the
Grand Lodge, "This is a vital and imperative matter-a matter of tremendous magnitude-and the solution calls for serious and conscientious consideration," we do not believe that this is the time for us to
act.· This subject needs consideration from a calm, sensible and wellbalanced st;mdpoint, free from the hysteria incident to times of war,
and the rashness to assist without
where and how to apply
the proper ancl adequate relief. California has a world-wide reputation for its humanity, sympathy with the distressed and assistance with
substantial aid. The Masonic fraternity of this great State and jurisdiction will not be found wanting when the time eomcs to
aid in
this instance, but we do not believe that that time has come.
\Ve
leave to here quote the time-worn adage: "Charity begins
at home." How many men in this grand jurisdiction, who are me111bers
of the Craft, have answered the call for the reservist and gone to the
front while their families remain here, possibly in need? We will not
have the answer until matters adj nst themselves and when the little
savings npon which existence is now dependent have hccn exhausted.
Even should we at this time make an appropriation of funds, to
whom and where conld they be sent? Even the Grand Lodge of England, much better informed on the subj cct than we can he expected to
be, makes its contribution to the English Red Cross fund and leaves

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the question of indh·idual relief to the various subordinate Lodges as
circumstances may ansc. Vv c, as :\Iasons, know no country, no sect,
no creed and no people, in assisting worthy Brother l\Iaster l\Iasons,
whithersoevcr dispersed around the globe, and it is impossible at this
time to get in touch with brethren of t,he various countries engaged
in war, "for in every country and in every clime arc l\fasons to be
found."
'vVe wish here to quote from the appeal of the President of the
United States for American neutrality: "A nation that neither sits in
judgment upon others nor is disturbed in her own counsels and which
keeps herself fit 'and free to do what is honest and distinterested and
truly serviceable for the peace of the world." So are we prepared to do
in the l\Iasonic fraternity of California, and for that purpose, and to that
encl, we believe the good judgment of the Grand l\lastcr, whoever he
may be, and the availability of the emergency fund of the Gram! Lodge,
to be fully adequate and sufficient.
Respectfully submitted,
CHAS.

L. p A'fTON,

Doz11cR FrNLEY,
0. L. SuEs,
Committee.

\Vhich report was adopted as read.

91

There are now three hundred and sixty-seven Lodges, with a
total membership of fifty-three thousand one hundred and seventy-nine.
A number of new Temples have been dedicated during the year,
and many me re arc under construction, which shows the splendid financial condition cf the Lodges.
I have visited c\·ery district in the State, and in manv of the districts have visited every Lodge therein. I have held schools of instruction, both day ancl night sessions, ancl have given a great deal of private instruction to l\lasters, V/arclens, Deacons, Brethr<:n and Inspectors.

These schools have usually been well attended, the officers and
brethren manifesting an interest and keen desire to perfect themselves
in the ritual.
There are some Lodges in the mountain and other districts that
have a harcl struggle for existence, am! I fear will cventuallv have to
consolidate with some nearby Lodge, as their membership i~ so scattered they cannot get enough members together to hold meetings. This
condition is unfortunate, as many of these Lodges are \'cry old, and in
years past were good, strong Lodges; hut the industries in their communities have ceased and their membership has of necessity scattered
all over the universe.

REPORT OF GRAXD LE(:TURER.

I desire to thank the brethren and the inspectors for the valuable
assistance and courtesies extended to me during the year, which has
materially helped to make the work a pleasure as well as a benefit to
the Lodges.

The Grand Lecturer then presented the report of his
labors for the year as follows:

The inspectors of San Francisco and bay counties hav<e conferred
degrees at Santa Rosa, \Voodlancl, Fruitvale, San Jose and Mission
Lodge No. 169, San Francisco.

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

These meetings have been attended by large numbers, and much
good accomplished, not only from the fraternal spirit of getting the
brethren together, but by the opportunity they have had of seeing the
work exemplified by the inspectors in a highly efficient manner.

Another year has passed and we again meet in annual session to
give an account of our stewardship for the year just closed.
At the outset we desire to offer up our most fervent prayers to the
ever-living Cod for the many blessings lie has bestowed upon us and
this great fraternity, and with grateful hearts we thank Him for the
peaceful prosperity that prevails in our country.
Never was Masonry in this jurisdiction more prosperous or the
Lodges in better condition numerically or financially.
The net gain the past year has been Twenty-nine H undrcd and
Twenty-two, the largest gain in the history of the Grand Lodge.
Thirteen new Lodges have received dispensations and several
more are now organizing.

I have had the pleasure of accompanying the :M:. w:. Grand
Master on many of his official visits throughout the State.
These visits create a great deal of interest among the Lodges.
The bret~r.en appreciate a visit from the Grand Master, many of the
Lodges v1s1tecl never before having thus been honored.
. The third degree will be exemplified by the inspectors of San Francisco and bay cotmties for California Lodge X o. 1 on Tuesday evening,
October 13th.
On Thursday evening the officers of Amity Lodge I\ o. 370 will
exemplify the first degree.

92

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'JIE

I am under obligations to the V.". \V. ·. Grand Secretary and hi'
assistant for many courtesies extenclecl to me during the year.
I have received reports from all the inspectors, and they report
the Lodges uncler their supervision to lie doing good work, and most
of them in a healthy condition financially and otherwise, many of them
doing a great amount of \\"Ork-in fact. some of the Lodges having
more candidates than they have had in years.
From personal observation it appears that the Lodges generally
arc extremely careful in their selection of candidates and only accept
those who are good men and true. Committees of investigation cannot he too careful in looking up the character of candidates seeking
admiss'on, for J\lasonry is judged by its weakest link.
Lodges of instruction have been held at the following places and
times:
1913.
Clo\·erdale ---·---- _________ November 21
San Francisco .... October 18-19-23
\Yindsor
:\Tantcca ------·--------- .... October 26-27
-·---------·------~ ovember 22
Alameda ________________________ October 30
Santa Rosa ______________ November 23
____ October 31
___ November 24
·winters
Frnitvale
__________ l\ ovember 25
\Voocllancl
Martinez ______________________ November 2
Claremont ____________________ )J ovember 5 D~l\-is
___ X ovember 26
Tehachapi _
______ November 8 Vallejo
.. November 30
Delano ----------- _________ November 9 Biggs __________________________ December 4
Tulare __________________________ November 10 Chico _
______ December 5
Gridley
_____ December 6
Kerman --------------- ______ ::\ ovember 11
Los Banos
_______ November 12 Sacramento _
________ December 7
Newman -----------------·· __ ::\ ovember 13 Sa11 Leandro ______________ December 9
Redwood City ____________ December 14
Berkeley
.. X ovember 15
Suisun _ --------··--·--- __ November 16 Sonoma ________________________ December 20
Richmond
_____ I\ ovember 18 Sacramento ________________ December 28
Oakland _____________________ l\ ovember 19 Los Banos __________________ December 30

Colusa -------------Orland -------------Corning ________
Tehama -----------Reel Bluff _________
San Francisco

1914.
_______ January 4 Lodi
_______________________ January 15
______ _January 5 \Voodlancl _-·--------------- _January 16
______ _January 6 Fresno _
__January 18
______ January 7 Selma
.January 19
_____ January 8 Kingsburg
__ January 20
________ _January 9 Orosi _
___________________ ._January 21

Marysville -------·--------------I anuary 11
Roseville _________________________ January 12
Penryn ----------------------------January 13
Auburn ---------------·------------January 14

I

L

Lindsay
__ January 22
Tulare
__ January 23
Exeter
_______________________ .] anuary 24
Visalia ______________________________ January 25

1'•1

Lemoore .
__ January 26
Hanford ------··------------- ____ January 27
Ccnten·illc -------·-----------._January 31
San Francisco _____________ February 3
J\lodesto
.. February 4
Turlock __________________
__February 5
l\Ierced
____________ February 6

Fresno . ------------------- __________ l\farch 29
San Francisco
_______ April 2
11 ollistcr _____________________________ April 3
Los Gatos
______ April 4
San Jose
______________ April 5
Linden
________________________ April 7
Knights Ferry _____________________ April 8

Delano _-----·--·-------------·-February 7
Bakersfield
____ February 8
_______ February 9
J\Iaricopa
Taft
___ February 10
Tehachapi
February 11
Pomona
_.February 12
Holtville _
_____ February 13
Brawley ________________________ February 14
El Centro
____ February 15
l:pland _-·--·--·-------- _______ February 16
San Dimas
---·---February 17
El Monte ----·------------- ___ February 18
Monrovia
________________ February 19
San Bernardino.
___ February 23
Redlands
_______ February 24
Perris . ---------·----------- F ebt uary 25
Elsinore . --------------------_February 26
Riverside ---------------- _____ February 27
Oceanside
__________ February 28

Oakdale ---·-- ---·---------------------April 9
lone _____________________________________ April 10
______________ April 11
W oodbriclge
Elk Grove
___________ April 12
Oakland _
_______________ April 15

San Diego ---------------- ______ March 1
Xational City. __________________ March 2
Fullerton .
.March 3
Orange
__________ March 4
Santa Ana
__________ March 5
Artesia ---·.. March 6
Watts ___ -----------·----- ____________ "\Iarch 7
Downey .
_____ March 8
Pasadena _
____________ March 9
Alhambra
____________________ "\Iarch 10
Los Angeles ______________ March 11-12
San Fernando
______________ March 13
Santa Monica..
__________ l\,arch 14
Los Angeles
____ March 15
Long Beach ______
_______ March 16
San Francisco ______________ l\Iarch 22-23
Kingsburg ___________
______ March 26
Hanford ____________________________ March 27

\ Voodland --·-------------------------April 18
"\l ountain View --·----------------April 25
Palo Alto .
_____________ April 26
Sutter Creek .
____ May 2
Volcano
_____ ]\fay 3
Angels Camp _____ _______________ ]\fay 4
Chinese Camp _____________________ May S
Tuolumne
_________________ March 6
Livermore ____
.March 9-10
Orland ____
______ March 14
Tgo _-------------·---------------- _____ March 15
Weaverville___
____ March 16-17
Anderson ---------__________ March 18
Monterey -------------- __________ March 26
Watsonville ______________________ March 27
Santa Cruz __________________________ March 28
Petaluma ___________________________ March 30
Rio Vista ___ _______________________ June 2
El Dorado . ----------------------June 3
Pbcerville .
--------------------I une 4
Georgetown --------------------------June 5
Truckee ____
___________ June 7-8
Bakcrsfi.elcl ----------------------------June 16
San Diego ------------------------June 21-22
Oxnard ---------------·------------------June 30
Bridgeport
__________________ July 13-14
Bishop
______________ July 16-17
Big Pinc ______________________________ _July 18
Tmlependence -·--------------------July 19
Fillmore _
----------------------I uly 20
V cntura ________ -------------------------July 21
Santa Barbara ----------------------I uly 22

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

,,j

95

PROCE]jJDINGS OF THE

94

Lompoc
.................. July 23
Santa Maria ........................ July 24
Orroyo Grande ................... July 25
San Miguel -·--··-····-·-··-·······----July 26
San Francisco ····--··---·····--·---July 31
Mill Valley ...................... August 2
Ukiah ......
.......... August 6
l\Iendocino ........................ August 7
Willits ········-·--·--···--·-·--·-·····August 8
Ferndale ............................ August 11
Fortuna ............................ August 12
Eureka ·········-----··-···········-·August 13
]'\ apa .................................. August 16
Dutch Flat ...................... August 19
Janesville ..-........................ August 20
Susanville ........................ August 21
Alturas .............................. August 22
Cedarville __ ....................... August 23
Adin .................................. August 24
McCloud ............................ August 26
Fort Jones ........................ August 28
Yreka .....................
..August 29

Dunsmuir -----------··········--·August 30
Colfax .......................... September 2
N" evada City .............. September 3
Camptonville .............. September 4
Alleghany .................... September 5
Downieville ................ September 6
Sierraville _................ September 7
Loyalton ___ .................. September 8
Greenville _
....... September 10
Quincy ....................... September 11
La Porte ............... September 12-13
Hornitos ..
......... September 16
Mariposa ................... September 17
Merced ........................ September 18
Lakeport .................... September 21
Lower Lake ................ September 22
Middletown ................ September 23
Amity Lodge No. 388 ........ Sept. 25
Amity Lodge No. 388 .... 0ctober 2
Occidental Lodge No. 22 .... 0ct. 5
San Francisco ............ October 11-12

Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS

J. BAKER,

presented throughout the year, none having been paid without the endorsement of said committee; the same being at all times most genially
assisted by our Worthy Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY AsrnoFT,

H.J. OWEN,
D. E. F. EASTON,
Committee.

The report was approved as read.

PROPOSED Al\IEND:\IENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.
To the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

I hereby offer the following amendments to the Constitution:
That Section 82 be amended to read "seventy-five dollars" instead of
"fifty dollars," as it now reads. and by adding after the words "consent
of all" in the fifth line thereof the words "and none of them shall charge
less than $9 clues per year."
That Section 150, sub. 8, be amended to read as follows : "To report to the Grand Secretary, immediately after their occurrence, all
rejections for the degrees, expulsions, suspensions, restorations and the
names of all members gained by degrees or affiliation, together with
their ages, nativity, business and residence."
THos.

Grand Lecturer.

J. GREEN,

Senior Warden, Parnassus Lodge No. 388.

Referred to a Special Committee consisting of Otto
L. Sues, \Villiam J. Garibaldi and J. Stewart Ros~.

Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

Brothers C. H. Wheeler of San Jose Lodge No. 10
and J. C. Falkenberg of Santa Lucia Lodge X o. 202, presented the following resolution:
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS.
Brother Henry Ascroft, Chairman of the Committee
on Accounts, reported as follows:
To the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Since the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge your
Committee on Accounts has regularly examined and audited all bills

I

L

To the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

In order to make it legal for one brother to act as secretary at
two or more Lodges where it is desirable, we offer the following:
Resolved, That Section 135 be amended by inserting the following
after the word "elect":
"Any member in good standing in any Lodge
in California may be elected secretary of any other Lodge."

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

96

PIWCEEDINGS OF TIIE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE ROSTER.
Past Gr;ind :-raster Orrin S. Henderson, at the request of 1 member, presented the following· resolution,
which was referred to the Committee on Finance:
To the Jf.". W.". Gra11d Lodge of California:
\VHEREAs, In the wisdom of this Gram! Lodge it has been found
necessary, almost since its inception, ammally to publish for the benefit
of the several loclgcs, a Roster of l\Ieml:crs; and
\Vm-:REAS, This Yolume has been found tu be invaluable in estahlishing the authenticity of yisiting mcmhcrs and applicants to the scyeral
Boards of Relief; and
\VHERE.\S, Owing to our increasing membership, this hook is hccoming unwieldy and cxpcnsh·e; and
\VHl".REAS, Co1wenience couhl he achicyccJ ancl a crmsiderablc economy effected by printing the names in smaller type, three columns to
the page, instead of two; therefore be it

Rcsafred, That our roster he perpetuatcll in the suggested form and
our Crand Secretary be instructed to ha1·c it so printed in the future.

SPECIAL ORDERS.
The Grand ;, faster announced that the Annual Oration
would be special order for Thursday afternoon, immediately after the noon r~cess. and that l\I emorial services
would follow the Oration, with addresses hy Tlrothers
Linscott and Filmer, and a general eulogy hy Past Cram!
l\I aster II enderson.

Deputy Grand ::\faster Bledsoe presented a resolution
regretting the absence of Past f;rand l\Iaster Perkins and
Grand l\Iarshal \ \' illiam Kettner, an cl the Cran cl Secretary
was instructed to telegraph to these brethren the gTeetings of this Grand Lodge, and the resolution was enthusiastically adopted by a unanimous vote.

97

The Grand Secretary subsequently reported that he
had obeyed the instructions and had caused the following
telegram to be transmitted:
San Francisco, Cal., October 13, 1914.
Honorable George C. Pcrh11s,

United Staffs Senate, and
Honorable William Kfttncr,
Member of Congress,
Washington, D. C.
The following resolution was unanimously adopted this afternoon:
"WHEREAS, At this the sixty-fifth Annual Communication of this
Grand Lodge, two members of this Grand Lodge, each of whom has
been honored by preferment herein, viz.: M. W. George Clement
Perkins, Past Grand Master, and Brother William Kettner, present
Grand Marshal, are absent in attendance upon the session of the Congress of the United States, and we are thereby deprived at this Communication of their wise and reassuring counsel and genial companionship ; and
WHERE.\S, The high and patriotic service of these honored brothers
in the highest legislative departments of our government is of such a
character as to not only contribute materially to the welfare of our
common country, but also to bring added honor to this Grand Bodv
because of their membership and office herein; now, therefore, be it •

Resolved, That the Grand Secretary be instructed in the name of
the Grand Lodge, to telegraph to Past Grand Master Perkins and
Grand Marshal Kettner the greetings of this Grand Lodge with the
assurance that though absent from our midst they and their services to
the country and to the craft are eyer in our minds, and that we bespeak for them a safe return to their homes, and the actiYe resumption
of their l\Iasonic affiliations with their brethren of California.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Wednesday morning.

98

l'TIOCEEDlNGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

PROPOSED Al\IEND::\IENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.

::\f orning Session.
Wednesday, October 14th, 1914.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the
Grand l\faster presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sess10ns were read and
approved.
Past Grand ::\faster ::\ f otley II. flint appeared and
took his seat.
RECOGNITIO.:.J OF VISITORS.
A majority of the Special Committee appointed by the
Grand Master for the purpose of formulating a rule whereby our Lodges may be advised as to who should be admitted as visitors, reported as follows:
To the JJ.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee appointed for the purpose of formulating a rule
whereby our Lodges may be advised as to who should be admitted as
visitors, respectfully report that we find it very difficult to establish
a hard and fast rule except along general Masonic lines. That on
acc0t111t of the chaotic condition of Masonry in European Countries,
especially at the present time, and the deplorable lack of information
relative to l\lasonry in the Republics to the south of us, we deem it
inadvisable to make any report' at this Communication of the Crand
Lodge.

\

WM.
JORN

The report was adopted as read.

P.

F1LMER,

\VHICHER.

The Grand Secretary, at the request of a number of
brethren, presented a proposed amendment to Section 73
of the Constitution, which was referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence. It is as follows:
73.

DISPENSATlO)J FOR-PREREQUISITES.

Upon the petition of twelve and not more than twenty-five, :'.\laster
Masons in good standing, accompanied by the <limits or ccrtiticates of the
signers in the forms prescribed in Sections 159 all(! 161, being presented to the Grand ;\faster, in the form prescribed in Section 235, he
may, in cases of manifest propriety and necessity grant them a dispensation to open and hold a Lodge at the place therein to be named,
under such name as shall be approved by him, which shall not be the
name of any living person or chartered Lodge, with power to make
Masons and receive members by affiliation; and he shall therein appoint the Master and \Vardens of the new Lodge. But in no case shall
such dispensati011 be issued unless the petition be accompanied by a
;ecommendation from the nearest or most convenient chartered Lodge,
1£ from a town or city where more than one Lodge exists, then from
a majority of such Loclgcs, setting forth, in the form prescribed in
Section 237, that the petitioners are all Master Masons in good standin~, that the establishment of the new lodge is of manifest propriety and
will conduce to the good of the order, and that a safe and suitable
Lodge room has been provided therefor; nor unless the petition shall
also be accompanied by a certificate from an Inspector whom the
Grand Master shall select, declaring that the Master and Wardens,
proposed in such petition are each fully competent properly to confer
the three degrees of Masonry and to deliver entire the lectures thereunto appertaining.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF :\IASONIC HOMES.
The annual report of the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California was then presented and it
a~pearing that the members present had been supplied
w~th printed copies, the reading of the same was dispensed
with. The consideration of the report was made special
order for Thursday morning at 11 o'clock.

100

ro the 111:.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California
ht'rcwith submits for your consideration and approval its annual report for the year ending September 30th, 1914.
The ]\f. ·. \.V. ·. Grand Master re appointed Thomas Flint, vice
self. term expired, and the Board helcl its annual meeting at the
office of the Grand Secretary on October 18, 1913, re-elected \Vm. S.
Wells president, ;\fotlcy H. Flint, vice-president, and Elmer E.
Stone. secretary, and has during the year held its regular and special meetings at both Decoto and San Gabriel.
The reports of the secretary, superintendent and accountants are
herewith presented, made a part of this .report and referred to for
a more particular statement of the financial and general condition
of both Homes.
We fully reported in our last annual report as to the water
situation, and the year just passed has demonstrated that our supply
is entirely sufficient. The State Highway Commission is now building the State Highway from a point between Hayward and Niles
and in front of the Home property. This is a public work, and one
in which we are very much interested. The Commission itself is
doing the work, and it was necessary that they should obtain water
from us, as there was no other supply. We have permitted them
to put in a pipe and to take water from us not to exceed fifty thousand gallons a day while they are so engaged in this work, for which
they are to pay us 12 cents per hundred gallons. This charge will
more than cover the cost of the water and the pumping of it, and
the wear and tear on the machinery. They draw from the lower
reservoir, so it only requires the pumping from the well into that
and not the use of the two pumps. While we are not engaged in the
business of furnishing water to anyone, thi:; was a work of such nature and character that we deemed it for the hst interests of all to
assist so far as we were ahk, and if we did not it would
the
work until another year.
The vineyard has been a source of expense to ns for some years.
The vi11<'s arc dying and the two dry seasons have about ended their
usefulness. \Ve dug up about a third of the vineyard last year and
added the ground to our hay crop. \Ve shall take up this year all of
the balance of the vineyard planted to wine grapes and only retain
such part of it as is planted to table grapes and of that only sufficient
to supply the Home. The cultivation of this vineyard has for year;;
been a severe tax on the resources of the Home and the raising of
hay upon this land will net us far more than the returns yearly received from the vineyard.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

101

\Ve have moved the six cottages back beyond the Simonoff Temple and have cleared and graded the strip of land between tht Temple
and the kitchen, and have let the contract for a new dormitory building to contain fifty-two rooms. The present kitchen is in a very bad
condition and requires overhauling and remodeling. We have planned
a new kitchen to be added on to our present kitchen, enlarging the
dining room to fulfill future demands. These improvements are absolutely necessary in view of the fact that every room is now occupied and we have between fifteen and twenty applications under consideration, but which cannot be acted upon until we have room. The
new dormitory bllilding when completed and fully furnished, together
with the work on the kitchen, will cost in the neighborhood of $50,000.
and in order to pay for this work it will be necessary to continue the
50 cents per capita tax for the ensuing year.
\Ve have also adopted a general plan of improvements and have
had a drawing of the same made and will submit it to yon for your
inspection, one showing the present buildings as they are now located,
together with the new dormitory building and a proposed dormitory
building to the west of the present administration building; another
showing wings added to the administration building, both of which will
constitute the future improvements at the Home. These can be built
one at a time as required, and when completed will take care of the
needs of the Home for many years to come.
We have removed the fifteen thousand gallon oil tank which was
located at the Home to the depot at Dccoto, and have leased from the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company a piece of land and have there
placed it, together with a pump and plant, which will enable us to
handle our own oil supply instead of depending upon someone else.
This will give us a storage capacity at the Home and at the depot of
about thirty thousand gallons.
The Home at San Gabriel has maintained its usual condition as
far as the property and buildings are concerned, except by the damage
suffered through the excessive floods which prevailed all over Southern
California last winter. The stream, ordinarily twenty-five feet wide
when flowing its strongest. was caused to
its course and wash
a bed three times that width within three days, and also cat:sed practically a total loss of our garden stuffs, then planted. This has been
repaired by straightening the channel and constructing barriers on each
side of the wash, which repair and improvement cost approximately
$1,600, but leave us much better protected against future floods. This
condition, however, will he a continual menace to us. Our fruits and
berries are in the best of condition and the garden is now re-established and producing most satisfactorily. The ornamental portions of

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

103

the grounds, untler the master hand of Brother Bettes, presents the
most pleasing appearance in the history of the place. The tennis court
and playground, however, 'have not been restored to their former condition, as the expense necessary for permanent work is thought not
advisable until the plan of the ·new building, and possibly a new location, is fully determined.
Your authorization of last year to dispose of the San Gabriel
property and buy other property, if in our judgment we deemed best,
has been caretulfy considered by your Board. We have investigated
many tracts in that vicinity, but as yet have found nothing that is
tlltisfactory, or that we deemed of importance enough to be considered,
and we still have the matter under consideration.
The result of the atmosphere maintained in this Home are manifested by the singular success of every boy leaving the Home the
past three or four years for the more useful fie.Ids of life. Their training and instruction have proven them well fitted to meet their new
conditions, and well fortified with the courage and integrity necessary
to succeed in their undertakings. We are proud that they conduct
themselves after leaving the Home so as to reflect honor 'on the institution. We are giving to the world strong, keen, honest, industrious young men, who, were it not for the timely and thoughtful care
of this great fraternity might have drifted into very uncertain channels. We ,cannot lciok at these boys and young men without feeling
a pride that we shared in shaping their lives for useful and honorable
careers. Our girls, too, are exceptionably proficient in all · their attainments, and many display a gifted talent in musical or other artistic
lines. The generous and interested business men of our fraternity
are liberal in the development of our boys in their several lines, because their active efforts bring almost immediate returns. Those,
ltowever, interested in the development of a sweet voice, or a course in
art for our girls are less numerous, and we sometimes witness one of our
talented musicians take up a course in stenography or some more
prosaic vocation when we believe the world has been deprived of something of value in their nature, or probably some sweet song that would
give joy to thousands; is 11tilled at its very source.
A beloved and prominent member of the Grand Lodge of California, who i:equests that his name be withheld, has arranged with
your Board of Trustees, to provide a vocational scholarship each year
for some child of the Home after finishing their schooling. He is
as wise as he is good in providing a scholarship for the girl or boy
who, after securing all the training and care the Home can give, may
be lifted up in the world just as they are entering into it. What
period of our lives is more important or more critical than when we

..i

<

u
0....
0

u

...c
l&i

:I
0
:i:

!:!
z

•0

(I)

<

:I

ai

"cz
.J

::>

m
Lil

a:

::>
....
::>

IL

c
z

<
....

...z
(II

Lil

a:

IL

•

104

PUOCEEDINGS OF THE

turn our backs to our childhood, and come face to face with manhood
or womanhood? What time is more propititous to extend a friendly
service? Your Trmtees, as the representatives of the generous Lodges
of this jurisdiction, can take the plastic mind of the little child, and
with the beautiful surroundings of the Home and the motherly influence of our instructors, mould a wholesome and useful boy or girl.
They can also receive the weathered and incapacitatd brother in his
old age and supply him the necessary comforts in the sunset of a
useful, but probably finally misucccssful life. But, Brethren, the hand
of the
extended with
zeal in the welfare of the
young man or woman stepping out into active life, is the timely aid
that crowns the labors of the Home with .a fulness of the duty we owe
to our brother. whom an unkind fate robbed of the sacred privilege of
rendering a similar service to his own. To those members of the
fraternity rendering this particular service the Board of Trustees desires to extend in behalf of the entire fraternity their deepest and
most profound thanks.

The
interest taken in both l-Iomes by our brethren and
their kind aid and co-operation in the work, has been much appreciated
hy your Board, and to these as wdl as to all who have contributed
to our Christmas fund and made donations, we extend not onlv for
ourselves but on behalf of our wards our most sincere thanks. The snperintcnclent and matrons have worked with us shodder
to shoulder and have been of great assistance in the year's work.
vV c recommend that the usual per capita tax of one dollar be
levied for the maintenance of the Hom es, and that the fifty cents per
capita tax for building purposes be continued for another year.
Fraternally submitted,

WILLIAM S. WELLS,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
ELMER E. STONE,
EDWARD B. SPENCER,
THOMAS FLINT.

GRAND LODGE OF CAl,JFORNIA

105

SECRETARY'S REPORT.
San Francisco, California, Scptemhcr 11, 1914.
To tl1c Board of Trustees,

Maso11ic H 0111cs of California.
Gentlemen: Herewith, T submit my Annual Report as your Sccn~­
tary for the year ender\ J nly 31, 1914, making the report of the 1\ccotmtants my financial report.
Fraternally yours,
ELMER E. STONE,

Secretary.
San Francisco, California, Beptcmber 11, 1914.
To the Hoard of Trustees,

Masonic Homes of California.
Gentlemen: \Ve have audited the accounts of the Masonic I Tomes
of California for the year ended July 31, 1914, and following upon our
last similar imdit. and have presented our complete report thereof, embracing statements exhibiting in full detail the financial position and
financial operations of the Homes to the date of July 31, 1914.
We have verified the Income from reports submitted by the Superintendent; the Expenditure by examination of properly approved vouchers, accompanied by supporting invoices or other <lornments, and
the funds on deposit in banks by examination of Bank Statements. We
have not verified the securities or cash of the Permanent Endowment
Fund, the Dccoto and San Gabriel Revolving Ft:ncls, or the Cash Account of F. B. Hartman, Trustee.
vVe a re, gentlemen,
Faithfully yours,
LESTER, HERRICK & HERRICK,

Certified Public Accountants.

106

PROCl<:EDINGS OF THE

107

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l\IASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA,
DECOTO AND SAK GABRIEL, CALIFORNIA.
CENERM, STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

2\f.\SO:\IC lTOl\fES OF C.\LIFORNl:\,

Gl'ncral T1alance Sheet, July :ll, 1914.

--- --- ---·--·-·--·-·· ---.. ·------- -·--·---·--- --,.-- ------·--·--- -------------$ 36,971.39
Funeral Expense c\ccount
Securities, Accruecl Interest, etc..

.... ··············
........................

289.00
38,055.30

Supply and Sundry Equipment Invcntorics

9,641.50

Decato Real Estate, Improvements and Equipment 291,112.21
San Gabriel Real Estate, Tmprm·emrnts and Equipment .................................................. .
Real Estate Im·estmrnts
1\1 iscellam·ons

71.038.83
1,900.00
498.25
---$449.506.48

LIABILI'l'lES.

Vouchers payable ...

$5,817.92

Trust Funds ...

7,889.26

Residents' Personal Deposits

$1,061.32

Special Ruic No. 16 .................. .
I I cad Stone ................... ..

5,747.94

Capital .

1,080.00

....................

435,799.30

Entertainment Fund ............................$ 1,237.43
Permanent Endowment Fund
39,306.86
Building Fund

17,445.63

General Fund-Capital ......................... 373.692.54
General Fund-Operating
4,116.84
---$449,506.48

August 1, 1913, to July :ll. 1914.
$19,729.88
Balance on hand, August 1, 1913 ....................... .
.. $ 9,428.28
General Fund ...
.. ............ ..
.................. 4,267.40
Special Ruic N n. 16 Fund .... .
2,690.91
Permanent Enclowmcnt Fund.
1,469.49
Entertainment Fund .............................. ..
Residents' Deposit Fund..
............................... . 1.073.80
800.00
Head Stone Fund
132,395.95
Rcc'eipts .
.. ... . .......... $84,845.74
General Fund
1,955.74
Spcc'.al Rule No. 16 Fund .... ................
6,692.51
Permanent Endowment Funcl
1,032.90
Residents' Deposit Fund
280.00
Head Stone Fund
.......................... 37,589.06
Building Fund

-------

$152,125.83
120,972.36
Disbursements .......
.. ................ ..
General Fund .
.................. $72,203.41
Special Rule No. 16 Fund
..................
475.20
Permanent Endowment Fund...
8,131.86
Entertainment Fund ..............
232.06
Residents' Deposit Fund......
1.045.38
Building Fund . .................
............................... 38,884.45

-------

31,153.47
Balance on hand, July 31, 1914..................................... ..
General Fund ...
.. ............ $ 3.329.59
Special Rule Ko. 16 Fund...................................
5,747.94
Permanent Endowment Fund...........................
1,251.56
Entertainment Fund .
...................
1,237.43
Residents' Deposit Fund..
1,061.32
Head Stone Fune\
__ ............ .
1.080.00
building Fund . ................ .................
17,445.63
31,153.47
Disposition ......
Balance with Crz111cl Treasurer ( .\11 Funds) ...... $31.658.44
1,750.00
Re,·ol ving- Fun els .................... ..
........................ 1,642.75
Crocker National Bank .... .
F. B. Hartman, Trustee ....................
.. ............... . 1.061.32
758.88
Secretary for Deposit with Treasurer.. .................... ..
100.00
Los Angeles Bank & Trust Co. (Building Fund)

Less Checks Outstanding (Vouchers Payable)....

$36,971.39
5,817.92

108

PHOCBEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Gl:A::-iD LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

109

SUPERl~TENDENT'S REPORT

!\L\SO:\"IC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.

Decoto, Alameda County, Cal., October 1. 1914.
DECOTU .\:\"D SAN

To the Board of Trustees of the Masoilic Ilomcs of California:

CALIFORNlA.

August 1, 1913, to July 31, 1914.

Balance on hand, .\ugust 1. 1913 ..
$9,428.28
.Receipts .
. . _______ ------------------·--· ----·--·-------·
66,104.72
Per Capita Tax
$50,257.00
Dccoto Farm Rentals and Sales.
7,791.11
Donations
4,743.52
Interest 011 Deposits _---------·····-908.20
Funeral Expenses .
887.40
San Gabriel Farm Sales
812.09
!\fiscellaneous Income
359.00
Cancellation Check No. 104 Iss·;;~(l--D~~:--4, 1909. __
346.40

$75,533.00
Disbursements _________
------------·---- .................. ..
Decoto Home Operation............................ ..... .. ..$33.378.54
San Gabriel Home Operation_
....... ....... 16,964.76
Decoto Farm Operation ...................... .
7,678.53
Transfer to Building Fund Acct. Contribution
by Grand Lodge --------------------·-- ................ .
5.000.00
General
--------------------- .................... ..
3.774.74
San Gabriel Special
1,500.00
Decato Special Repairs ------------------- ----------------------1,246.86
Funeral
1.036.90
San Gabriel Farm Operation
1,005.58
Decoto Sundry Improvements
422.05
Dccoto Buildings Equipment
262.77
San Gabriel Buildings Equipment···----·-----------238.83
Interest Paid __________ __
155.60
Acct. San Gabriel Vouchers
18.25

72,203.41

Balance on hand, July 31, 1914 ___________ __

Suitable entertainments and out-of-door recreations have been provided for the members of the Homes. by means of which the older
members have occupied their time with wholesome diversions, while
the younger members have been afforded that incentive and opportunity
so necessary for their gradual development to prepare them for the
coming responsibilities which will, as years go on, devolve upon them.
DECOTO.
There are now at the Decoto Home 121 residents, 79 men and 42
women. During the year there have been admitted 17 men and 9 women.
All the rooms arc now occupied. Applications for admission have
been far in excess of the vacancies as they occur. The waiting list
is constantly growing, and the need for additional room is most urgent
to n'!eet the demands of the Lodges throughout the jurisdiction.

$72.683.41
·Less lihnr;mcc prnra!cd monthly to San C:ihrid
I Jome Operation ______ ------------··-----

BRETHREN:
The t11Hler;;igned presents the sixteenth annual re-port as Superintendent of the J\f a sonic Homes of California.
During the period cm·ered hy this report, the affairs of the Decato
and San Gabriel Homes ha\·e been satisfactory in every way. The
work carried on has been one of sen·ice. All have loyally co-operated
as far as possible in creating a splendid spirit in both Homes. An
increased interest has been shown in the assistance given to the general
routine work, which has resulted in a greater degr<>e of contentment
and happiness.
The perman!"nt improvements made for several years past have
enabled the management to render a higher standard of service in
meeting the
mental and spiritual needs of the members of our
large family. T!wy have been encouraged to interest themselves in
the welfare of the Homes. hoth in thought and deed, and the combined
efforts of all have met with a most gratifying success in carrying out
the hopes and aims of the great benevolent work of our fraternity.

480.00

$3,329.59

The health of the Home has been good. Those now being cared
for at the Coleman Hospital arc there hy f('ason of the infirmities
of old age. There are now 15 members of the family being cared
for at the Hospital. The l l(Jspital, originally planned for 15, has had
its capacity incrrased by the addition of extra beds in the private
rooms and the men's ward, bnt is now laking care of about all that
can be accommodated.
The Home now has an inexhaustible supply of water, our reservoirs

are at all times kept fulli and with a capacity of 700,000 gallons, we

,,_____________________________

111

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

have ample for fire p:«itcction and otlr roa<L>, walks and gardens show
a great improvement.

Each month arrangements are made so that the brethren and
women of the Home, a few at a time, have an opportunity to v1s1t
Alameda Lodge, No. 167, F. & A. :VI., and Orient Chapter, No. 177,
O. E. S., at their stated and special meetings, and at times trips are
made to the several towns within a radius of several miles of che Home.
All holidays have been observed in an appropriate way. Arbor
Day was added to the list this year. A program consisting of readings, recitations and songs was given, after which all gathered on the
grounds in front of the main building and a number of trees were
planted by the residents of the Home. The observance of this day
will also become an annual event. All of the gatherings mentioned
above are well attended.
Manv other entertainments have been given for the pleasure and
benefit ~f the family by Lodges, members of Lodges and their ladies.
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349, Eden Lodge, No. 113, and Alameda Lodge,
l'\o. 167, each conferred the third degree at the Temple. Nobles of
Aahmes Temple and their ladies, Concert by Aahmes Shrine Band;
Golden Gate Chapter, No. 1, 0. E. S., stereopticon lecture, "India;"
Orient Chapter, No. 177, 0. E. S., garden party; Oakland Lodge and
their ladies, entertainment at Temple; also many members of the fraternity and their ladies who attended our socials and family gatherings
contributed to our musical and literary programs.
During the Christmas holidays, two enjoyable events were had
worthy of mentio·n. A play was given, entitled "The Country School,"
in which 16 members of the Home took part; and on New Year's
Eve a carnival and watch party was held in the Assembly Hall, which
was attended by all the members of the family.

110

. :\s heretofore, the greater part oi the hill ranch has heen leased
either on sh;1rcs or cash rental. The farm has supplied plenty of fruit
for t:iblc 1:sc, the surplns being sold in the San Francisco market.
The hay crop was somewhat short compared with former years. The
vegetable and bcn-y gardens gave good returns, and a great variety.
The vineyard was an almost total failure this year.

The operation of the cold storage plant. heating plant and laundrv
have been of great benefit to the Home. These have proved to b~
all tkt could he hoped for.
The mid storage plant has furnished all the kc for our needs, and
enabled the l lomc to properly care for large s11pplks of meat, butter,
milk, eggs and wgclabks.
The heating plant supplied all the steam heat during the winter
months. daily supply of hot water, also power for the operation of
the water pumps and laundry.
The lanndry plant h;is met all the demands made npon it, and is
turning out first~class work.
A large quantity of pumpkins, stock beets and field corn bas been
raised for the dairy and chicken ;.anch.
The chicken ranch has supplied all eggs for table use. A surplus
of 5,000 eggs has been put up in water glass for winter use. The
hog ranch and dairy haye also given good returns.
A large quanti.ty of fruit has been presen,cd by the women, and
much of the rncndmg and household linen has been done by them.
A number of the hrethrcn have contributed to the welfare of the
Hom.e by their lahors in the carpenter, shoe, tailor and barber shops.
and m the care of flower gardens, and light work in a general way.
The library has had 281 books added to its shdves, and the men's
cluhroom and women's reading room have been well supplied with
magazines aud daily papers.
.
Saturday afternoon a moving picture and musical cntcrtamment has been givc-n in the Simonoff Temple. On eyery \Vednesday af:crnoon the Home reading club gather in the Assembly Hall.
On Friday e\·e:1ings the Home chorus, numbering 16 voices, assemble
for song practice. The usual services are regularly held on Sunday
afternoon.
'
The family social held every Thursday evening is a new feature
added to our enjoyments dnring the year. On that evening tables
for chess
·
. ·' checker
·
s, d ommoes
an cl canJ games are provided. Musical
se 1ecti~ns on the piano, organ and grafanola are given, and the evening
gathermg often cnd5 with an impromptu dance.

SAN GABRIEL.
The Orphans' Home at San Gabriel, like a bud unfolding into a
beautiful rose, is growing each year with added charms among the
children, better efficiency in music, dances, drills and special instruction, and the development of the older children blossoming out into
that interesting period, when the first view of the outside world is
pictured before them, and they anxiously aspire to choose an active,
useful and helpful vocation in life.
The policy of the Trustees in placing boys at the age of 14 or 15
in the hands of some responsible Mason, or firm under the direction
of a Mason, to learn a trade or business and at the same time complete their schooling, has met with unquestioned success. Similar
provision has been made with some of the girls. This policy has the
effect, however, of reducing the average age of the children very materially, as most new :;dmissions are small children. Their tender

GP.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

age makes them more easily adjusted to their new environment, and
growing with conditions in the Home facilitates discipline.
\Vhen the San Gabriel Home was opened five years ago, there
were 13 boys and 13 girls, of an average age of 12 years. Since that
time we have admitted 89 children. Fifty-four have been provided
for in vocations or returned to parents, and one lost by death, leaving
now in the Home 61 children, 34 boys and 27 girls, the average age
now being 10 years. During this period only three children have been
dismissed from the J.fome because of ineligibility, addiction of dangerous habits, or incorrigibility. All other children have responded well
to the care and discipline of the Home, and we watch with interest
the changing methods of the new child as it throws off the rough
ways acquired in less favorable surroundings, without a parent's care,
and adopts almost involuntarily the sweet mannerisms taught by their
thoughtful instructors.
The Home life, from a social point of view, is active, original and
such as to inspire a continuous interesting entertainment. Each Sun·
day evening a small number of the children provide a new program
for the remainder. The next week a different committee provides the
program; thus it is never tiring, and never old. All patriotic and
other holidays and anniversaries of importance are suitably observed,
and a paper read giving the origin and explanation of the observance
of the occasion. Many older persons could benefit much by these
papers.
The notable event of each year is the camping trip of the children.
This healthful and most pleasant diversion is of inestimable value to
the children. This year the camp was again at "Camp Collins" on
Balboa Island, in Orange County, so named because of the generous
action of W. S. Collins in giving the grounds, water, and many other
privileges, without cost, to the children. Boating, fishing. swimming,
launch rides, camp fires, and all the pleasures of camp life were
enjoyed. They lived in their tents this year from July 23d to Sep·
tember 3d. In the active management of the camp, those in charge
were treated as guests and the camp was operated by the "Camp
Collins Club." They chose their own President and Secretary, and
appointed committees for the active work of the camp, who performed
their services well. A paper of much merit and interest was published
every morning. Side trips to neighboring beaches were made, and a
contest in swimming with a neighboring camp, in which our boys excelled, provided much pleasure.
Our Health Board still remains almost perfect. No more capable,
generous, good-hearted, thoughtful and deserving man exists than Dr.
J. M. Dunsmoor, Secretary of the Board of Relief of Los Angeles.
He is at all times watchful of the health of the Home and children.

113

111!

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALUCORNL"

He prescribes their diet and habits. He is at call any time he appears
to be needed. He cares for adenoids, tonsils, vaccinations, etc., as occasion demands, and refuses compensation except the love and appreciation of tbe;:c children, who are devoted to him.

The visit~tions to the Home have been numerous. Many
nent Ma sons and their families have registered during the year.
Chief among visitors are the Grand Officers of the Grand Bodies of
California and the annual meeting of the Los Angeles Board of
Relief at the Home. At these events the children render suitable
programs and instrncti\·e and much-appreciated responses are given
by the visitors.
Visitations of special interest are as follows:
November 22d-".\'1rs. Clara G. Stevens and a number of ladies
from Long Reach representing the Shrine Cluh called. Children gave
a prog-ram and were entertained by the visitors, each receiving a Buffalo nickel.
December 24th-Shrine Cluh of Long Beach hrought a splendid
selection of Christmas presents, and were rntertaincd by the children.
December 24th-Masons and Eastern Star members of Azusa
called with good supply of camly. They were also entertained by the
children.
Februarv 14th-Visit of Grand '[\faster and other Grand Officers.
A program -was given by the children, then a musicale by ".\Irs. Buckham and her class of p~1 oils.
March 1st-Grand Patron 0. E. S., Brother F. L. Kincaid aml
his wife visited the Home. An impromptu program was given and a
good talk given hy Brother Kincaid, who is himself active in work
with children.
Easter brought many visitors. particularly ladies from the \Voman's
Million Club, who left six dozen Ea:;ter eggs for the children.
May 3d-Visit of Grand High Priest, Thomas 0. Heydenfclt, and
Grand Lecturer, Henry Ascroft, of the Grand Chapter R. A. M., a
most enjoyable visit. The children know Brother Ascroft, and look
forward to his visits.
Mav 19th-Children went to Alhambra as guests of 0. E. S. They
gave a. good program, and were given refreshments and favors and
an auto ride home.
June 7th-Board of Relief of Los .!\ngelcs entertained with good
program-about forty-fi\·e members were present.
June 27th-Children attended the St. Joh n's Day reception to Grat~d
Master John D. J\forphcy at Shrine :\mlitorium. Boys gave cadet dnll
and girls gave selections by mandolin clnh and Garland dance.

114-

Assisting Dr. Du11rn10or with his operations for adenoids, etc.,
we are much indebted to Dr. Xannie C. Dunsmoor, his wife, and Dr.
Robert Dunsmoor, his son. Also three very prominent eye, ear, nose
and throat
Dr. F. S. Ballard, Dr. Geo. H. Kress and Dr.
J. C. Olds, rendered valuable professional services which, at legitimate rates, would have been difficult for us to have met.
Mrs. Ola Taylor, of the Board of Relief, is always bringing sunshine into the Home, always on hand to help nurse if one is sick, always cheerful, always useful, and the children all wait her coming.
They love her and they cherish her love for them.
Miss Dorothy Lyndall, <laughter of Past Master Lyndall, of Arlington Lodge. No. 414, instructed and directed our girls in the Garland Dance for the reception to Grand Master
The girls reflected much credit on Miss Lyndall in
this dance.
Mrs. Lela Buckham continues to supply musical instruction to the
children for only her expenses.' She is competent, faithful and sincere, and deserves the thanks of the fraternity for her splendid work
Brother Alex Culver, of Southern California Lodge, is a firm
friend of the Home. He is always devising something new for the
children, and liberal in his time and means in their interest.
Brother Hanly, of Alhambra Lodge. still conducts our Sunday
School, and arranges for supplying the pulpit through the Y. M. C. A.
or other sources. His work with the children is sincere and earnest,
and much appreciated by the Trustees.
Our obligations to generous members of the Fraternity increase
each year in the receipt of many useful and substantial donations in
cash, supplies, favors and little kindnesses, for which space in this
report cannot be given, but each courtesy had a special value and the
gratitude of the children seemed to compensate the donors for their
kindly acts. Reference is here made to "List of Donations" for particulars.
A pleasing incident in the affairs of the Home is the employment
of Miss Elizabeth Hacnsel as one of the staff oi attendants. Miss
Haensel was admitted to the Home as a little girl twelve years ago.
She chose this work as her vocation, and the Trustees recognized that
she possessed unusual merit for the position. She will render a
service to the
that will many times repay the care given
her in her younger years.

June 28th-Grand Master :\Iurphey, Junior Grand ·warden Keesling, Grand Lecturer Baker. Past Grand Masters \Velis, ~L ~- Flint
and Thomas Flint, the Inspectors of all the Los
Districts, and

GilAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

116

other friends of the H omc visited and
for the occasion.
•

•

•

·"

>

·'

•

DONATIONS TO DECOTO HO:\[£.

good program was arranged

J1~lv
~ 6th-Profrssr'r B p B au111g;anlt gave one of 1 ·
~ ..
cstmg and mst-nctivc
kc't
.
.
.rusI mo~t mter,
.
' ll cs, I 11 ustrated witl1 hntcr 11
prcciatcd by the children.
· '
s I( es, much ap"'"·

Jnly 9th-:'dcmbcrs of Ios :\1wcJ,. L· I
?\
in automnbiks to Lmw B '. : • ."' ' ' uc gc ' o. 42 took the children
.l I
.. ,., .>C'<lc 11, \\ 11erc the
Beacl B ti
vH cc a gala day for
\ll .
.
" 1 ro icrs pro1icach co1Kess1cns were fr
.d
r
t ti
1
oi
rdrcshrn'11t
.
.
1Jes1. es an a.nmdance
.
.
c s m <Treat vanet,·. o11e eef tio iem,
CllJoyable events of the yC'ar.
"'
'
, '
o
1e most
.. July 23. d-Datc of Cam11irnl
~ Trip. \"I
:, 11·1 c .in camp manv promi11e 11t
v1;s:tors witm:sscd the children while
.
ltte. Among the brethren were fohn "free from restraint" in camp
As
f p ('
·
Thomas Davie'>
., Sha,.,
' · cro11 t, · J " ?IL \Velkr. Inspector.- s. E. Burke and Clark
·rncl
<'
iany ut icrs from many parts of tl~e
"'
Santa Ana.
State, hnt particularly from
:\Jost \Vorshipful Gr:rnd l\Iastcr Td 111 D
,
of the Crand Lodrrc kn·c , . I· .
• '
. · .:\Iurphey a1.1d n.1embers
.
"
"
.11«c c d mun 1icr ot v1s1t·:
t' H
many ot the hrcthrcn ·mcl f", I··
l .
. . ~
ne
omc: also
'
l !C!H" w HJ arc rn'crc 5·te 1 111
·
If
I10l11S
.. Wlt
. I1 US.
'
·(
our we are
Iiave spent rnanv"' !)I"·isant
'--" .:

anccl ~1gain_ cxtcncl h'. the l\1a~ro11s my appreciation of the loyal assist1 endei ed. ~ncl tnc c:msc1c11tious and
efforts given to
the work in their respective departments.

• T desire to thank the members of th, B
k111dly consideration lircuoh' t
·t·
c ,oarcl of Trustees for the
.. , . ': ' o ques tons affecting the welfare of th
ancI t I1c nevcr-tailm ·
.. ,,.
.
c
of building up a spirit of .~ .~'.1,co;11 d,.,.I ernent which has been the means
sci\ ice t iat ias brought forth good fruit.
Respectfully submitted.

FR>\\"K B. IL\RTJVIAN,

Suf'crintcndcnt.

117

Benicia Lodge ;\o. 5, 1 set croquet; Oakland Lodge No. 188, candy,
ice cream and cigars; Nobles of Aahmes Temple, candy and cigars;
Santa Cruz Knights Ternplar Ladies, 40 ladies' aprons; Reedley Lodge
No. 304, 2 large boxes of raisins; Amapola Chapter No. 119, 0. E. S.,
4 bbls. oranges; Jewel Chapter No. 238, 0. E. S .. 1 large framed picture; G. D. King, 281 vols. miscellaneous books; R. Mehrtens, 1 Grafanola and 20 records; S. P. Elias, large box clothing and underwear;
F. 1\L Bransford,
and periodicals; William Cluff Co., candy
and cigars; J. Strom, l roller organ and 20 records; E. J. Brown, l
dog; Mrs. A. Historians. clothing, etc.; W. H. Owens. 8 Gramaphonc
records; D. Johnson. 1 oil stove; California Nursery Co .. 1 Christmas
tree and flowers; \V. N. Bmnt Printing Co., printing; Marie Preston,
1 combination bookcase and desk; J. C. 2\fcCubbin, 6 cans of honey;
Herman \Vcrtsch, 1 box periodicals; John Whicher. l hox magazines;
W. ]. McClunie, magazines and periodicals; Eel. J. Day, magazines;
R. G. Guyett, 1 pkg. clothing; J. H. MacLafferty. l
clothing.
DONATIO:\S TO SA!\ GABR1EL HOl\rE.
Al Maliakah Shrine, large contribution of provisions. supplies, etc ..
after all ceremonials; Germania Lodge, supply of provisions after constitution of Lodge; \Vedncsday Afternoon Cluh, Alhambra, $2.50; a
neighbor, two cartloads of peaches; l\Iiss Ida C. Eaton and sisters, 22
lbs. home-made candies.
CHRISTl\L\S DONATIONS.
Christmas box from Lucerne Chapter No. 127. 0. E. S .. containing
present for each child, Alhambra Lodge, complete outfits of sporting
goods for both boys and girls; Long Beach Shrine Ckh, presents for
each child; Azusa Lodge and Chapter, home-made candy: Bro. F. B.
Silverwood. six dozen boxes candy : Pasadena Cornmanclcry No. 31.
box containing $20.50; Scottish Rite Bodies of Pasadena, books to
value of $30; Mat Mcl\lullen. turkey; Arnapola Chapter ~o. 119, Oroville, box of presents and $3.30; Dr. Thos. J. ()'Riley, children's slide;
University Lodge Ko. 394. bocks to value of $30; Troy Laundry, one
box apples; l\f r>. C. A. l lendrickson. one set iurs; Bullock's Store,
large hox damaged top;; The Four Shrin..: Temple,; of California, large
quantity supplies kft over from Dallas trip: Bro. Comfort of Uni~
versity Lodge, box of gum; E. J. Brent of Southern California Lodge.

$5.CO.

118

CAMP CONTRIBUTIOKS.
\V. S. Collins gave use of ground for camp and supplied water;
Bro. J. P. Greely and Bro. Fred Beckwith, many, many favors in boat
rides, treats of ice cream, candy, etc., during the entire camp; Mr. F. L.
Rinehart gave the children free access to his moving picture theater
at Balboa during camp; Bro. T!10s. 0. Hcydenfeldt, Bro. Henry Ascroft,
Bro. Thos. ]. Baker, and Bro. John \Vhicher, brought candy and refreshments to the camp frequently.
The Pacific Electric Railway Company. through Mr. G. \V. Pontius, furnished a special car to take the children to the beach and sent
another to bring them home. 'I'bis kindness made the trip to Balboa
possible and we are much indebted to them.

CHRISTMAS CASH DOXATIONS . 1913,
Lodge.
No.
Amt.
.\bell ...................... 146 ..... $10.00
Adin ............................ ..250........ 5.00
Alamo .. ................. 122.. ..... iOO
Alameda .................... 167........ 5.00
:\lcatraz ...................... .244........ 10.00
Alisa! ........................321... ..... 10.00
Alpha
.......... .431......
5.00
Alta ..... ..... .. ........ 333...
5.00
Alturas ....................... 248........ 5.00
Amity
......... 370........ 15.00
Amador ... .......
.. .. 65 ........ 10.00
Anaheim .
.. .. .207........ 10.00
Antioch ....................... 175 ........ 10.00
Apollo ... ...... ... .. .... 396........ 5.00
.\rcata .
.. ........ 106 ........ 25.00
/\ rlington ................. ..414........ 30.00
Artesia
........377........ 10.00
.\shbr ....
..306........ 5.00
Baket·sficld .... .. ...... .224 ........ 25.00
Balder .................. 393........ 10.00
Ray View .
.. ..401. .. 10.00
Brrkeley
.. 363....
10.00
Brawley .....
. ..... .402........ 5.CO

Brooklyn ...

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.. ...... 225 ........ 10.00

Buckeye ...................... 195 ........ 10.00
Buena Park ................357........ 5.00
Burlingame .............. ..400........ 10.00

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
California ....... ............ L. ..... 30.00
CalaYeras .................... 78 ........ 10.00
Carquinez .................... 337........ 5.00
Charity .......................362........ 5.00
Charter Rock ........... .410........ 10.00
Chico ........................ 111... ..... 10.00
Clear Lake ............. .183........ 5.0!J
Clay . ........
. ......... 101... ..... 10.00
Coalinga .................... 387........ 8.10
Concord . ................. 117........ 10.00
Confidence ......
203........ 5.00
Colusa ......................... 240........ 5.00
Corinthian .................. 9 ........ 10.00
Corona ....................... 324........ 20.00
Crescent .................... 45........ 5.00
Crockett ...................... 139 ........ 25.00
Dinuha
.........385........ 5.00
Doric .............
.. ... .216........ 25.00
Durant .......
.. ..268 ........ 10.00
fa1st Belt .................391........ 5.00
Ea«t Gate .................. 290..
10.00
Eden
.. 1J:L..... 5.00
El Centro .
. 384........ 1000
Enterprise .................... 70........ 5.00
Eucalyptus ................. .243 ........ 25.00
Eureka .......................... 16........ 2.50
Excelsior ................... .166........ 25.00

119

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Exeter ........................424........ 10.00 Mader~ ........................280....... 10.00
F~rndale ..................... 193.. .... l~.OO Madison ...................... 23........ 5.oo
Fidelity ...................... 120........ 2:i.OO Magnolia ..................... .242 ........ 10.00
Forest ............................ 66........ 5.00 Marin ........................... 191... ..... 15.00
Franklin ...................... 143 ....... 10.00 1.faricopa ................... .434........ 10.00
5
Fresno .......................... 2 47 ........ 10.~ Martinez ...................... 41........
McKinley ................. 347.. .... ~.OO
Friendship ................. .210 · ..... 10.
Fruitvale .....................336 ...... 10.00 Mendocino .................. 179........ :i.OO
~h
500 ~fill Valley .................. 356....... 25.00
'vlis,ion ....................... .169........ 25 ·00
.Gate .............. 30........ 20
.
.··
- 10.00
Mizpah
....................... 378. ......
Gold Hill ................... 32........ 10.
Mokelunme
Hill
.......
.298
........
10.00
Granite .................... .222 ........ 20·00
Hammerton ............... .433 ........ 10.00 j\fonrovia ....................308........ 10.00
Hanford .....................279 ........ 25.00 l'vfonterey ....................217........ 2·50
Hartley ...................... .199...... · 10.00 Morning Star ............ 68 ........ 10.00
Hawaiian ....... _........... 2L. ..... SO.OO :Vfosaic ........................ .218 ........ 10.~
Henrv Clav ................ 95 ........ 10.00 Mount ] ackson ....... .295........ 5.
Her~ann •.................... 127........ 20.00 Mount Moriah ......... 44........ 25 .oo
Hesperian .................... 264........ S.OO Mountain View ....... .194........ 2·50
Highland Park .......... 382....... 10.00
..
Hills Ferry ................ 236 ........ 15.00
Hiram .......................... 43........ 5.oo Nevada ....................... 13........ 5.00
Hollenbeck .................. 319 ........ 10.00 Nicolaus ...................... 129........ ~·fo
10·()() Norwalk ....................315........ ·
Hollywood ..................35:i........
Howard ...................... 96........ 5.oo Oak Grove ................ 215........ 5.oo
Humboldt .................. 79 ........ lS.OO Oakland ..................... .188. ....... 10.00
25 ·00
Illinoistown ................ SL. ..... 10.00 Occidental .................. 22 ........
Olive Branch .............. 269........ 10.00
Ophir ............................ 33........ 10.00
Oriental ........................ 144........ 25·00

.oo

G~lden

·~

~::;~_ :::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::: ~:~

~~~~ ":·:·::::::::-.·::··.·:. . _:·iit::·:: 1~

King David's .............. 209 ........ l~.OO Orland
~·~
King Solomon's ....... .260........ 2J.00 Oxnard ....................... 341........ 2· ·
La Fayette .................... 126........ S.OO Pacific .......................... 136 ........ 20.00
Lassen .......................... 149........ 5.oo Pajaro .......................... l lO........ 10.00
Las Palmas ................366........ 5.00 Palestine .....................351........ 5.oo
Lexington ................... .104........ 10.00 Palo Alto .................... 346........ 5
Liberty ..... .. .............. 299 ....... 20.00 Palos Verdes ..............389........ IO.OO
Live Oak .................... 61... ..... 20.00 Parnassus .................... 388........ 10.00
Lodi ...........................256........ 10.00 Paso Robles ................ 286........ 10.00
Lompoc ....................... .262........ 10.00 Penrvn ........................ 25 2........ 5 .00
Long Beach ................327........ 10.00 Phoe.nix ....................... 178........ 10.00
Los Angeles ................ 42........ 10.00 Pinole .......................... 353........ 10.00
Los Gatos ....................292 ........ 10.00 Pittsburg .................. ..429........ 11 ·50

.oo

120

PHOCJ~EDINGS

OF THI~
GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Plumas ...................... 60.
5.00 So. San Francisco .... 212........ 10.00
Presidio
............ 354........ 10.00 So. Pasadena ............. 367........ 5.00
Reading ................. .254-. .... 10.00 Speranza Italiana ..... .219........ 10.00
Redondo ..................328 ........ 10.00 Starr King ................ 344........ 10.00
Redwood City ........... .168 ........ 20.00 Seisun ........................ 55........ 2.50
Richmornl ............... 375 ........ 10.00 Sunset ......................... .352........ 10.00
Rio Vista .................. 208........ 5.00 Tehachapi .................... 313 ........ 10.00
Roseville ............... .432........ 5.00 Tehama ......
3........ 10.00
Sacramento ............... 40
10.00 Texas ........................ 46........ 5.00
Salinas ............
... .204....... 2.50 Trinity ..................... 27 ........ 10.00
San Benito ............... .211....... 5.00 Truckee ...................... .200........ 5.00
San Diego .. ........
35 ........ 10.00 Tuscan ........................ .261.. ..... 10.00
Sanger ........................ 316..
10.00 Tyrean
..... .439........ 4.00
San Bernardino ........ 348
15.00 Union
.............. 58........ 25.00
San Buenaventura .... 214....... 10.00 Unity ............................ 368..
5.00
San Francisco .......... 360.
10.00 Vacaville ...................... 134...
5.00
San Jacinto ................338..
5.00 Valley ......................... 135...
5.00
San Jose ................... 10....... 10.00 V cs per ....................... 84........ 5.00
San .Miguel .. ......... .285 ..... 10.00 Visalia ......................... 128 ....... 10.00
San Pedro ................332........ 10.00 Vulcan .......................... 56...... 8.40
Santa Ana .............. .241.. ...... 30.00 Washington ................ 20........ 20.00
Santa Cruz ................. 38 ........ 10.00 \'Ves tern Star ............ 2........ 5.00
Santa Rosa ......
... 57........ 16.25 West Gate ................ 335 ........ 10.00
Santa Monica ............307........ 5.00 Whittier ......................323........ 10.00
San Simeon ............... 196........ 5.00 Willits ..... . .. . . .......365........ 5.00
Sequoia ....
.. 349........ 10.00 Wilmington .............. .1915... . . 5.00
Silvenille ................ ..201....... 10.00 W codhriclge .............. .131....... 5.00
Silver Gate .............. 296........ 10.00 Woodland ................. .156........ 5.00
Sisson ......................... 310. .. . . 5.00 Islam Temple, A. !1..
Snow ~fountain ....... .271........ 5.00
o. ~- :vr. s.. .......
50.00
Southern California .. 278 ........ 25.00
CHAP'l'ER, R. A. M.
Chapter.
No.
Amt.
Chapter.
No.
Amt.
Acacia ...................... 64.... $ 5.00 Fresno ......................... 69........ 10.00
Alameda ..................... 70........ 5.00 Grass Valley ................ 18........ 5.00
Alturas ........................ 107.. ..... 2.50 Hollister .................. 68........ 5.00
Antioch ....................... 65........ 10.00 Howard ..................... 14........ 10.00
Berkeley ..................... 92........ 10.00 La Purissima ........... .104... ..... 10.00
California .................... 5........ 25.00 Lassen ......................... 47........ 5.00
Coalinga ................. 114........ 2.00 Los Angeles ............... 33 ........ 10.00
Delta .......................... 27........ 2.50 Mendocino .................. 88........ 5.00
Dixon .... ................. 48........ 10.00
l\Iill Valley ................. .108........ 10.00

121

Signet ......................... 57 ........ 10.00

~::~~~--·::: :::::::::::::::.:::: 3~:·:::::: 1~:~~ Stockton ..................... 28. ....... 10.00
Palo Alto .................... 93........ 5.00
Petaluma .................... 22........ 5.00
San Francisco ............ 1.. ...... 10.00
Sacramento .............. · 3........ 200.00

~::~::s

·: : :·: : : ·: : : : : : ~~:::::::: ~:fa IE:lL

San Luis ...................... 62........ 5.00
Santa Cruz ................ 38........ 5.00
Siloam ............ .......... 37 ........ 10.00

+t ~\ \:1~

Vacaville .......... .
Ventnra ..........
.. 50........ 10.00
Woodland .................... 46........ 5.oo

COM:\IANDERY, K. T.
Comrnan<lcry.
No.
Amt.
Commandery.
No.
Amt.
Auburn
............... U. D .......$ 2.50 Pacific ... ...................... 3........$ 2·50
·· 47........ 5.00
Bakersfield ................. 39 ........ 10.00 Palo Alto .....
Berkeley ..................... 42 ...... 10.00 Pasadena .................... 31... ..... 10.00
California ......... .......... 1... ..... 25.00 Red Bluff ................... 17........ 10.00
Eureka ...................... 35 ........ 20.00 Reckling ............. ·· ... 50........ 10.00
Golden West .............. 43 ........ 25.00 Sacram~nto .................. 2 ........ SO.OO
Hanford ..................... 46........ 10.00 San Jose ...................... 10........ 5.oo
Lassen ......................... . 13........ 5.00 San Luis Obispo ...... · 27 .... ··· 5.00
Mount Olivet :............. 2lt...... .. 5.00 Santa Cruz .................. 44........ 5.oo
Nevada ..................... 6........ 5.00 Stockton .................. ·· 8....... 10.00
Oakland ..................... 11... .... 10.00 Woodland ................... 21....... 5.oo
Golden Gate ................ 16 ........ 25.00 Watsonville ................ 22........ 10.00
COl!NCIL, R. & S. M.
No.
Amt.
Council.
Sonora ....................... .. 5........$ 5.00

Council.
No.
Amt.
Los Angeles .............. 1L. .... $10.00

LODGE OF PERFECTION, A. & A. S. R.
No.
Amt.
Lodge.
Ko.
Amt.
Lodge.
0
$2' 00 Oakland .... .. ................ 2........$20.00
San Francisco ............ 1........ 25.00
California .................... l ........ ;,.
Fresno ...................... ·· 6........ S.OO
p
10 00
Isaac Davis ................ 4........ 10.00 Stockton ...................... ~........
·
Los Angeles ................ 3....... .100.00
CHAPTER. 0. E. S.
Chapter.
No.
Amt.
Naomi ........................ 36 ......$25.00
Mill Valley .................. 219 ........ 20.00
Santa Clara ................ 195 ....... 10.00

Chapter.
No.
Amt.
San Rafael ................ .215 ....... $lO.OO
Wheatland ................. 48........ S.OO

122

NAME.

L'JDIVIDUALS.
Thos. J. Baker
W. S. Brown .................. .
Alexander Dolt
J. Hallisey ..........::::::::::::::::::::::
J. G. Hunchberger ............... .

5.00
1.00
5.00
.75
5.00

H. L. Cornish....................... ...
C. F. Horner ............................
Saul :\forris ..............................
Walter Prouty ..... ..................

5 00

so:oo
1 00
:75

'
RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME.
The following is a complete list of h
.
.
Home, the dates of their adn . . . I . t e residents ot the Decoto
uss10n, t 1e1r respective age ti
and the numbers of the Lodge 5
. .
' s, 1e names
such Lodges:
nommatmg them and the location of
MEN, 79.
NAM:E.

ADMl'.l"l'ED.

LODGE.

Ashburn, Hans A. ...... Mar.
LOCATION.
AGE.
8' 'OS Xevada .................... NO.
Anderso C A
F
13 l\evada City....93
n, · ........... eb.
9, '09 Mt. Moriah ............ 44
Andrews R
0
San Francisco..66
.
' · ................ ct.
25 '02 St · I
Beattie, John W. C..... April 27' '14 Dams aus ............... .206 Modesto ..........92
Branthaver, D ............. Jan.
' , Durant ................... .268 l:lerkeley ..........62
18 04
12' '07 K u:~nt ................... .268 Berkeley .......... 84
Bradley, ] ohn H ......... Oct.
Bartholomew, J. S ..... June 15' '13 Mett] ....................... 187 Gilroy .............84
1
' ,
t. ackson ..........295 Guerneville ...66
Bullier, Leon .............. July
Beck Joi
A
2, 12 Texas ..................... 46 San Juan
. 85
'
111 ..................
ug. 29, '12 Summit
,
....... .
Castell
T '
.................... ll 2 Kt ,s Ferry
82
aw, · .'>...........
2 '10 Cl
L k
..... .
Chamblin, 'rvf. R. .......... Sept.
H ea:i a e .............. 183 Lower Lake .... 76
' ,
28' 10 ar ey .................... 199 Lakeport
Ch
J "
86
apman, · ivL........... Oct.
6, '11 Concord
.... ····
Chamberlain, Jos ....... June
,
M r
.................. 117 Sacramento .... 64
18 12
Cramer, George F ....... Mav 11' '13 i;~ 1110 .................... 150 Tehama ......... 82
' ,
~rty S....................299 Santa C!ara ...... 59
Dolt,. Alexander ........ Ma~
18 99
'
ismg tar ............ 83 Forest Hill 69
Den ms, \V illiam ........ Feb.
28, '11 Sierra Vallev
184 s·
. .. .. ..
Durant. Francis A ..... May
• ........
1errav1lle ........ 82
5 'U F . ) .
Frasier, John ............. June 12: ,00 B:~;~~= e ................336 Fru~t:ale ....... .76
Farrington, Elvin ...... Feb.
9 'OB I . 0 .................... 5 Bemc1a ............87
Fren h J h A
' • . .ive ak ................ 61 Oakland
80
c , o n ........... June
8, 'O/ \Vestern Star
2 Sh
......... .
Fink, Conrad .............. Aug. 23 'P H
........
asta ..............80
Forbes, Hector ............ Jan.
' , ermann ............... .127 San Francisco ..76
1
Gates, Dawson D ....... Feb.
~: ,~1 ;ie~son .................. 97 La Porte ........ 70
Griffith
B J
........................ 113 San Leandro 61
T
s,
. ........... A11g. 30 '13 Cl
.. ..
Hallock R F
·
'
ay ......................... 101 Dutch Flat
83
' · '. .............. Jan.
7, '10 Illinoistown ............ 5l Colfax
......7
.....
Aug.
11
'HJ
E
.
.
...........
9
Hendrick, Robt. C
Jensen, Niels P ........... July
22' '07 Gn;~rpnGse .............. 70 Yuba City ...... 79
'
' 0 en
ate .......... .30 San Francisco..62

R:

123

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

Jeffers, S. ..... .. ....... Jan.
5. '10 Eden ...................... 113 San Leandro ....76
Johns, Josiah ............ April 15, 'lZ East Belt ................391 Tuo'lumne ......61
Johnson, David ........ Aug. 29, '13 Santa Monica ........307 Santa Monica ..82
Kerr, Earl .................. Sept. 11, '09 Pacific
San Francisco ..77
Keene, James ............ Sept.
4. '10 Mendocino ..............179 Mendocino .... 77
Knight, Lewis W ....... April
2, '14 Evergreen ..............259 Riverside ........65
Lippoldt, H. A ............ Jan.
20. '07 Northern Light ....190 Millville .......... 84
I,ewis, George L ......... June
6, '14 Oak Grove ........... .215 Alameda ..........79
Lindsey, Orville A ....... Aug. 30. '13 Rio Vista ............... .208 Rio Vista ........ 76
Lippman, George ....... N av.
2, '13 Pacific ...................... 136 San Francisco ..70
Mayer, Joseph ............ Jan.
10, '10 Mokelumne Hi\L..298 Mokelurnne H.85
Magee, David B ......... April 19, '11 Doric
San Francisco ..73
Mehrtens, Richard .... Nov. 12, 'lJ Crockett .................. 139 San Francisco .. 69
Mallory, Charles P ..... Aug. 31, '14 Orange Grove ........293 Orange .......... .70
Myers, Oliver H. ........ Aug. 29, '12 Starr King ............344 San Francisco ..69
Meyer, Wm. D ............. Aug. 31, '12 ]\fountain View ... .194 JVl tn. View ...... 54
Morgan, Josiah W ..... Aug. 11, '14 Phoenix ................ .178 S. Bernardino .. 82
McEwen, John IL ..... Aug. 21. '13 Pajaro .................... 110 Watsonville ....69
Ogden, B. F ................. April 19, '05 Mission
San Francisco ..75
Osterdock, Peter ...... Mar.
9, '14 Fraternity ..............399 San Jose ..........86
Parini, Daniel ............ Feb.
10, '14 Nevada ................... 13 J\evada City .. 76
Payne, Edwin H ......... Mar. 23, '14 Whittier ..................323 Whittier ...........76
Potting, Henry F ....... May
2, '11 So. San Franeisco .. 212 San Francisco..66
Preston, J. N ....:.......... May 22, 'lZ South Gate ............ 320 Los Angeles ....82
Pa!tnet, George .......... Oct.
20, '12 Amity ......................370 San Francisco ..67
Potts, Archibald R. .... Feb.
21, '14 East Gate ............. .290 Los Angeles .... 74
Roberts, S. A ............. Feb.
26. '01 Bear Mountain ...... 76 Angels Camp ..86
Robertson. Wm. B ..... July
25, '14 Yount ...................... 12 "Napa ................65
Redican, B ................... Mar.
l, '05 Los Angeles ............ 42 Los Angeles ....90
Rumbo!, R. F ............... Jan.
30, '08 Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City 84
Redmond, Samuel ...... Aug. 21, '10 Truckee ..................200 Truckee ..........70
Rauch, Alexander ...... Oct.
25, 'Hl Quitman .................. 8~ 1\. Bloomfield..83
Rewcastle, J. G........... Oct.
8, '11 Mendocino .............. 179 Mendocino ......81
Reed, B. IL ................. April 12, '12 Trinity .................... 27 Weaverville ....81
Spencer, T. C............... Aug. 25, '12 Chico ........................ 111 Chico ...............66
Smith, Eli '.\L ........... Nov. 25, '00 Concord ................. 117 Sacramento ....84
Schneider, Ed. S ......... Sept. 13, '08 Oriental .................. 144 San Francisco ..70
Scull, Charles ............ Sept. 11, '09 Excelsior ................ 166 San Francisco ..77
Stanton, Andrew P ..... Aug.
6. '11 Pacific ......................136 San Francisco ..77
Stafford, Ralph L ....... Feb.
17. '14 Granite ...................222 Rocklin ............ 66
Stivers, Henry F ......... Nov. 18, '13 Vesper .................... 84 Red Bluff ........80
12, '14 '.\It. Moriah ...... ,..... 44 San Francisco ..60
Strom, John ................ July
Tupper, John H ......... Feb.
14, '09 Petaluma ................180 Petaluma, ........74

125

GRAND LODGJ.; OF CALIFOUNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'UE

124

LOC;\TION.
ADM11"fED.

NAME.
NAME.

AD"ll'r'rl!fJ.

Tramplec1sure, T. E ... Aug.
Tack, Nicolas ............. Oct.
Wooley, E. B ............... Dec.
Welch, Wm. W ........... June
\Vhipple, Wm. l\L .... :\for.
Warren, R. B ............. Feb.
\Vhitelaw, John .......... Dec.
Zaun, Sabastian
Aug.
Zirnnwrmann, \V. '!' ... Fcli.

LODGE.

NO.

LOCA'rlON.

AGE.

30, '13 Occidental
L2 San Francisco.. 76
29, '10 Crescent
45 Crescent City..80
.. .244 Oakland .......... 85
29, '03 1\lcatraz ... .
14, '08 Calanras .............. 78 San Amlreas ... .85
6. '09 Brentwood
... .245 Brentwood .....81
3, '10 \Vilmington .......... .198 'Wilmington ....90
7. '12 Concord
.. .117 Sacramento ....80
7, '14 Inyo .
..221 Tndependence ..88
2, '10 :\kll ....................... 146 Ukiah ....
.. ... 74

WOMEN, 42.
NAME.

AD:V!JTTE!l.

Ames, lldinnie P ........ Oct.
Baxter, M. F..... . ... April
Mary ]. .......... April
Child, Susan A ............. Aug.
Donaldson, A. R. ........ Mar.
Dyer, Sarah ................ July
Dunlap, R. E .............. Se-pt.
Elder, M. J.-...... Jan.
Elliott, A. l\L ............. May
Fountain, H. E .......... Sept.
Fuller, C. T. .. ....
__ Feb.
Fields, Bessie l\f.. ..... May
Grant, Permelia E .... Feb.
House. Amanda ·- ....... Sept.
Hcith, Catherine
Oct.

Julian, B. l\L

.... Jan.

Johnson, M...
..... Mar.
Anna R .......... April
McKinnon, M. A .. _..... Dec.
.'.Vfallory, Anna l' ........ Aug.
Mueller, Elizaheth .... Aug.
Moore_. Emily N .......... May
Mast, Frances C ........ Aug.
Xash, :Vf. A...
. .. June
Pierce, :\.
Feb.
Peacock. L. . ............ April
Potting, Nellie E: ...... May
Robinson, I. ............... Dec.
Redican, M. A.... ...... Mar.
Reaves,
McD ... Jtmc

LODGE.

NO.

LOCATJON.

Seeley, Nancy C... . Sept.
Smith, Eliza J.............. Jnnc
Sawyer, Ella B. ...... ---- .:_ug.
Sly, Ellen S ................... ~O\".
Smalley, Emily A ....... June
Smith, Elizabeth .........\ug.
Thomas, F. \V ...... ------Jan.
Valliant, S. E ............... ~ct.
Wentworth, L ............ 1'eh.
·wooley, Jane .............. Dec.
Wells, Mary ................ Oct.
Wright, Sarah C ........ Sept.

I.OllGlt

's: •13

--------------------------------------.....

n:.\H, 18.

Jl!ED J\CRJN(:

NAME.

AG1'.

;:\. San Juan ....78
3, '10 2'fanzanita .... -- - ... .102
Pinole ...........81
11. '13 Pinole .................... 35 3
Fnlsom ...........64
64
30 '13 X atom a ...................
San Diego ......69
Siker C;1tc ··· ..... .296
Santa Ana ......71
4
22. '14 San\a ;\na
....... .2 l
San Jose .........71
210
28, '13 Fric•tHlship .. ....
lJkia h ..... ... ...86
4. 'O~ :\bell
20 Sacramento ....77
13. '11 \Vad1ington
21 \fonolt'lu ....... 69
6. 'OJ ll a waiian
Oakland ...........89
29. '03 .\lcatraz
30 San Francisco .. 76
27. 'J 2 Colden Cate
.. 113 San Leam\ro ... -76
13. '14- E(kn Lmlgc

AG£.

21, '13 Oak Grove . ........ .215 Alameda ........57
16, '02 Santa Rosa ....
.... 57 Santa Rosa .... 77
24, '07 Long Beach ............ 327 Long Beach .... 78
30, '13 Oakland .................. 188 Oakland .......... 67
10, '14 Vacaville ................ 134 Vacavil1e ........ 82
17, '00 Oriental
........ 144 San Francisco.. 76
23, '09 Keith ....................... 187 Gilroy .............. 77
8, '08 Pacilic ..
.. .... .136 San Francisco .. 82
1. '04 Occidental .............. 22 San Franc:sco.. 73
7. 'OG Evergr.:cn ............. .259 Riverside ... - ..82
9, '08 l\'fichigan City ....... 47 Michigan City .. 70
25, '13 Hcspcrian ............. .264 Santa l\laria ....81
2, '11 Antioch ................... .175 A11tioc!1 ............ 74
13, '08 Georgetown ............ 25 Georgetown .... 76
16, '10 Fresno . ...............247 Fresno
....68
7, '00 Madison .................. 23 Grass Valley .. 41
6, '03 Summit .................... 112 Kt's Ferry ......64
2, '14 Evc-rgrcen .............. 259 Riverside ........66
31, '01 l\Iorning Star
68 Stockton .. .. ..66
31. '14 Orange Grove ....... .293 Orange .... .. ..60
12, '14 Benicia
........ 5 Benicia ........... 72
7, '12 l\ladison .................. 23 Grass Valley ....82
31, '12 Yosemite .............. .133 Coulterville .... 70
11, '01 Palmyra .................. 26 Placerville ...... 76
5, '14 Pacific .................... 136 San Francisco ..71
2, '00 Alameda ................. .167 Centerville ...... 87
2, '11 So. San Francisco..212 San Francisco .. 70
19. '03 Eureka ·-·---... 16 Auburn ...........84
1, 'OS Los Angeles .......... 42 Los Angcles ....83
8, 'lJ Rear Mountain ...... 76 Angels Camp .. 78

NO.

J>ATf..

H"CtUEll .\T

15. '14 lkcoto
Bannister. Alfred
Jan.
15, '14 lkcoto
Barrett, John ::\1.. ...... Feb.
Salin«s
Benson, \Villiam H ... -- Sept. 17. '13
-9, '13 Dec:.o\o
Billings. Samuel 1L... :\Iay
10. '13 lkc'<)\O
Colli1;~. Delia .............. :\oY.
2. '14 lkrkeky
Con-. Lncy C .............. Vcb.
\8,
'14 lkcot"
Dn:inncy, James. 2'L. :\lay
23, '13 I kcotil
Dunning, \Villiam
:\oY.
17, '14 Dccoto
Crim<'~. Elizabeth 1L.Junc
27, '13 Dccoto
Hal!·er<lon, Charles L ... Dec.
3, '13 Dccoto
Ki~g-, Gilbert D ........ ··Oct.
S, '14 Dccuto
Lader, Frank .............. Vt.:b.
2, '14 Dccdo
Paton, George ............ Sept.
20, '14 Pacific Crove
Preston, Maria .......... l\far.
Rossi, Albert .............. :\ oY. 15. '13 Leis
27. '14 Decoto
Shakespear, David .... Jan.
5, '14 Oakland
Stanton. Mary 0 ....... Mar.
11. '13 Dccoto
vV crntz, Gabriel ........ Oct.
VOLUNTAHY DJ(PARTURl".S.

Stanton, J cd C ........... ..

:\fay

29. '14

126

GIRLS

SAN GABRIEL HOME.

NAME.

The following is a complete list of the children of ~he San Gabriel
Home, the date of their admission, their respective ages, the names
and numbers of the Lodges nominating them and the location of such
Lodges:
BOYS
NAM]\.

ADMITTED.

34, ADULTS 1.
LODGE.

127

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NO.

LOCATION.

AG!(.

Brown, Newell
.... Jan.
25, '10 Wilmington ........... 198 \Vilmington ... .14
Buletti, Antonio ........ Nov. 10, '07 Speranza-Ital. ....... .219 San Francisco .. 14
Clairville, Henry ........ April 29, '07 Oakland ...... _________ .188 Oakland ........... .15
Crego, Wm. Hunter.. Sept. 15, '12 Sunset ....................352 Los Angeles .... 7
Cadwell, Geo. Henry .. Oct.
20, '13 Board of Relief.. ......... San Francisco.. 8
Evers, Emroy Vivian .. May
27, '14 Live Oak
........ 61 Oakland ............ 12
Evers, Henry ----·---·-----?\lay 27, '14 Live Oak ................ 61 Oakland .......... .15
Fisher, Harrison ........ Mar.
8, '14 Presidio ................. .354 San Francisco.. 5
Fisher, John Elmer.... Mar.
8, '14 Presidio ................. 354 San Francisco .. 7
French, Ferdinand .... April
7, '06 Ashlar ......................306 Colton ............. .12
Gill, Geo. Harvey ...... Dec.
14, '12 Highland Park. .....382 Los Angeles ... 9
Howard, Homer E. .... Feb.
17, '13 Oriental .................. 144 San Francisco .. 6
Howard, Lester W ... Oct.
1, 'i2 Oriental ................ .144 San Francisco.. 13
Hyner, Lewis .............. June 14, '12 Volcano ................. 56 Volcano ............ 10
Lakey, Dale ----······--····Mar.
1, '10 Gardena :................. 372 Gardena ............ 14
Lakey, l\fyron ·--···-·······Mar.
1, '10 Gardena ·--····-·····-----372 Gardena ........... .13
Neustadt, Laurence .. June 20, '14 Sunset
............352 Los Angeles .... 9
Pattison, K. S. T ......... July
12, '11 Crockett .................. 139 San Francisco .. 14
Pattison, Francis H ... June
7, '12 Crockett .................. 139 San Francisco.. 9
Quentin, Albert .......... Dec.
18, '09 l\Iission ................... .169 San Francisco .. 9
Ramsay, Frederick .... April 19, '10 ....... --····-······· ............................................. .12
Riley, Jahiel T ........... April 11, '11 Martinez ................. 41 Martinez ......... .13
Robert, Albert Lucas .. Aug. 27, '10 Volcano -----········---·· 56 Volcano ............ 11
Robert, Clovis John .... Aug. 27, '10 Volcano ................. 56 Volcano ........... .13
Raftery, Earl Albert.... April 11, '13 Mizpah ..... ,..............378 Los Angeles .... 8
Schultz. Charles L ... June 14, '10 N cedles ....................326 Needles ____ ....... .12
Tilston, Arthur N ....... Sept. 23, '13 Los Banos ............. 312 Los Banos ........ 15
Tilston, Cecyl C ........... Sept. 23, '13 Los Banos ---··-·--····-312 Los Banos ........ 9
Westfall, John B ....... Aug. 18, '13 Bakersfield ........... .224 Bakersfield ·---·· 9
Waisteel, Robert H ... Mar. 30, '13 San Jose ................. 10 San Jose .......... 8
Waisteel, Thos. Jas ..... Mar. 30, '13 San Jose-······-·-----···· IO San Jose .......... 4
Warren, Ulmer E ....... Nov. 20, '12 Sacramento ............ 40 Sacramento ... .14
Wingate, Jas. Baker.. Feb.
20, '11 Mission .................. 169 San Francisco.. 13
Wingate, D. McL....... Feb.
20, '11 Mission -·--········ ..... .169 San Francisco.. 9
Bettes, Adoniram :VL. Aug. 17, '00 Pasadena ............... .272 Pasadena
.... 70

ADMITTED.

Brown, 11...LVLargaret ........ J an.
Buletti, Margharita.... Nov.
Clairville, Josephine .... April
Crego, Dorothy E ....... Sept.
Donovan, Ethel .......... Dec.
Fisher, Ruth HazeL. Mar.
. ....... "I
Fisher, Alice El 1z
lv ar.
·
Fisher, Munel .............·u
nar.
. h er, M a nan
·
............ "N'ov.,
F is
French, Ismena .......... Dec.
Howard, Helena E. .... Feb.
Haensel, Gertrude E ... April
H yner, Edi.th G·--·····-·- Ju11e·
Neustadt, Henrietta .. June
Riley, Effie A. l\L ..... April
Riley, Rebecca ............ April
Ramsay, May .............. April

27, ADULTS 1.
LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

30, '10 Wilmington ............ 198 Wilmington ..... .11
10, '13 Speranza-Ital. ....... .219 San Francisco .. 14
29, '07 Oakland -----------------·188 Oakland ............21
15, '12 Sunset ....................352 Los Angeles -··· 9
15, '09 Doric ------·····----------.216 San Francisco .. 15
8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 San Francisco.JO
8, '14 P res1'd'10 ..................354 Sa11
Francisco .. 12
•
8, '14 p res1·a·10 -------··--·----·· 354 San
Francisco .. 4
•
9, '13 Eastgate
------···290 Los Angeles ___ .14
30, '03 Ashlar --··---~--------------306 Colton ·····--:···----.14
17, '13 Oriental ................. .144 San Francisco .. 9
10. '02 Humboldt .............. 79 Eureka ---···--···---16
14, '08 Volcano .................. 56 Volcano ........... .14
20, '14 Sunset ......................352 Los Angeles .... 11
11, '11 Martinez ................. 41 1\Iartinez ......... .10
11, '11 Martinez .................. 41 Martinez ·········· 7
19. '10 -··················-···-·-----·---·---------·-····-······- ____ JO

~~~=:~, F:e~l:ic;l'.~::::: ~:~· i~'. '.i~ ~~~~:~o ..::::::::::::::::::3~ ~~!c~~g~i·~-~ ... .1:

Stevens, Irene ............ Feb.
25, 'JO Agreement Board of Trustees .......... 12
Virgo, Alice Mary ...... Dec.
5, '13 Mizpah ·····-----·········-378 Los Angeles - - 9
Virgo, Sadie Vincent.. Dee.
5, '13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles .... 6
Virgo,_ Winifred ........ Dec.
5, '13 Mizpah ···---···--------···378 Los Angeles ---- 4
Westfall, Louise E ..... Aug. 18, '13 Bakersfield ........... .224 Bakersfield ----·· 4
Westfall, Grayce Eliz. Aug. 18, '13 Bakersfield ___________ .224 Bakersfield
6
Willis, Milicent .......... Oct.
15 '10 Alameda ................ 167 Centerville ....... .15
Willis, Mildred .......... Oct.
'10 Alameda ............... .167 Centerville ...... 15
Trumbull, Mary .................. -----······--·... ............ ------···-----·--··---··--···· ..............................83

1s'.

DEPARTURES DURING YEAR,
NAME.

DATE.

12.

REASON.

Warren, Corrine _____ July
27, '14 Live with aunt
Bundy, John Harold .. June
6, '14 l\fother married
Bundy, Emory Edwin June
6, '14 Mother married
Stevens, Harvey ........ Feb.
22, '14 Dismissed
Stevens, Rollin .......... April
8, '14 Employment in L. A.
3, '14 Live with family
Clairville, Juanita ...... Mar.
Murray, Arthur F ....... Jan.
15. '14 Live with relative
Murray, Alice Eliz ..... Jan.
15, '14 Live with relative
9, '13 Live with relative
McKenzie, Orville S ... Nov.
Riley, Margaret R. ...... Nov. 27, '13 Live with mother
Snow, Alfred W ......... April
7, '14 With Salt Lake Ry.
Haensel, Elizabeth ...... July
30, '14 Employed by Masonic Home

128

;.>ROCEEDINGS OF THE

DlSTl:\GL'TSHED YblTUR.
::\[ust \\.orshipfnl John IL Scott, the Senior l'ast Grand
::\faster nf Illinois, being present. the Cram! ::\Taster appointed Past (;rand ::\[asters Patton and Perine to formally
introduce him to the Grand Lodge. which was done, and he
was escorted to a seat in the East. The venerable Brother
delivered a very interesting talk expressive of his appreciation at his cordial reception. On motion of Deputy Grand
Master Bledsoe, the Grand Secretary was instructed to telegraph the Crand ::\Iaster of I11innis the fact of the visit of
his disting·uished predecessor and to acknowledge our
pleasure thereof.

A:\:\CrL\TED CO:\STITL~TIOX.
The Grand Secretary presented. in behalf of Brother
James \\T. Anderson. the manuscript copy of the approved
decisions of the Cram! Lodge still in force, \vith the remark
that it will be remembered that at the Annual Communication in 1<)13 Brother Anderson introduced a resolution providing· for the publication of the Constitution and Decisions ~in the form heretofore known as .\nderson's :\Tanual.
At that session the disposition of that matter was practically postponed until this session. The Grand Secretary also
presented the .Annotated Constitution as it now stands, hut
with all extraneous matter eliminated. This Annotated
Constitution. as is well known. contains the brief of all decisions illlmediately following the sections referred to. lloth
11Hlm1scripts vvcrc rcierred to the Committee on Finance.
DECTSTOXS OF GR.A:\D MASTER.
Past Crand ::\faster Frank J\T. .\ngcllotti, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, reported as follows:
To the JI.'.

rv:. Gra11d J,odgc of Calilornia:

Your Committee on Jnrisprmknce have had under cnnsi(k•ration the
Yarious decisions rendned hy the Grand l\Iastcr dnring the year.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

129

There can be no question as to the correctness of the decisions of
the Grand .Master No. l, respectively 1-5-6-7-8-9-10.

In decision No. 2 the only point really decided by the Grand
Master was that in a case where the Master had issued a summons
requiring the attendance of members at a stated meeting of his lodge,
which summons had been duly served, and which some of the members had refused to obey, the summons having been issued and served,
it was not the province of the members so requested to appear to
question either the legality or the propriety of the issuance of the
summons. In this ruling the Grand Master was certainly correct. The
Grand ::\faster, however, stated that he was disposed to think that it
was not the intention of the .Masonic law that the suimnons should be
issued for the purpose of procuring attendance of members at either
special or stated meetings of the lodge. \Ve are of the opinion that
this is not a correct statement of the law in this jurisdiction. It has
been twice held by this Grand Lodge that the :\faster has power to
issue a summons whei1ever the business of the lodge requires it, and
the brother receiving it has no right to c1nestion its legality and refuse
to obey. (Vol. 4, Proceedings 353; Vol. 6, Procee<lings 1084.)
The latter of the decisions issued was a case where the ]\faster
had issued summons to the members of his lodge requiring them to
attend a special meeting for the purpose of conducting funeral services
of a deceased hrother. Of course it is not contemplated by law that
summons should he issued for attendance at ordinary meetings of the
lodge, but unquestionably. the Master has power to issue summons for
any meeting whenever he is of the opinion that the bl1siness of the
lodge demands such action on his part. Disobedience of such summons
is a Masonic offense for which an offending brother may be informed
against and tried.
With these modifications the decision of the Grand :'.\foster is
approved.
Decision 3 presents, as is stated by the Grand l\faster. a question
of far reaching importance and great concern, one that merits serious
reflection and final definite determination. Brother 'Wm. Samuel Viall
of our Yolo Lodge Ko. 81, residing in the jurisdiction of Churchill
Lodge No. 26, of Fallon, N' evada, was proceeded against in the latter
lodge for un-Masonic conduct, and by such lodge convicted and suspended from all the rights and privileges of Masonry. Churchill Lodge
thereupon certified the record of the proceedings to our Yolo Lodge
No. 81, which latter lodge with such record as its only hasis, without
any trial, entered a judgment of suspension against the brother.
The Grand Master decided that there was no warrant in law for
the action taken by our Yolo Lodge X o. 81, and therefore disapproved

130

PHOCEEDINGS OF '!'HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the same. Jn this ruling we arc satisfied that the Grand .:\faster was
correct and his decision must he approved. If the judgment of the
Nevada Lodge ipso facto operated to deprive Brother Wall of his
in this state, no judgment of suspension was essential in our
Yolo Lodge; if it did not ha vc such an effect, he could not be deprived
of his standing in om ledge without a trial therein.
The seri0t's question presented by these facts is as to the effect of
the action of the :\'evada Lodge upon the status of Brother Wall as
a member of our Yolo Lodge. Did it ipso facto deprive him of his
c\Iasonic standing in this jurisdiction? \Ve think this question merits
iurther consideration than we are able to give it at this Communication
of the Grand Lodge. and we recommend that it be referred to our successors. The sanw
to be said as to the suggestion of the Grand
:\laster as to the desirability of
certain legislation relating
to the effect of judgments of foreign jurisdictions.
As to decision 4.
\Ve understand the decision of the Grand Master to be substantially as follows:
The Master of the lodge should not permit any member to retire
after announcing the report of the committee on investigation and
directing a ballot, unless sickness or some other imperative reason is
shown. It is clearly then the province of the }faster to prevent brethren
from evading plain provisions of the law by retiring to the ante-room
for that purpose. If a Master has a reason to question the good faith
of members retiring to the Tyler's room preceding or pending a ballot,
he certainly is acting within his discretionary power in requesting or
compelling them to return to the lodge room and participate in the
ballot. The Master has no power to excuse a member from voting
who asks it, whether in the lodge room or the ante-room.
\\' e think this correctly states the law and we recommend that the
decision of the Grand Master is approved.
Respectfully submitted,
F. 1vL ANGELLOTTI,
WM. F. WELLS,
MOTLEY

REPORT OF CO.\Il\IITTEE Cl:\ RETCR.L\S.
Brother Robert E. Allan. Chairman of the Committee
on Returns. reported as follows, report being adopted as
read:
To the Jr/.« iv:. Cnrnd Lodge of California:
The annual reports to the V.'. \V. « Grand Secretary show this to
have been a banner year for Ancient Craft 11.fasonry in this jurisdiction.
They also show that there have been increases all along the line. In
the report of the Grand Secretary yon will !ind the figures for this
year showing the number of n1cml:crs on the- roll, and the loss and
gain of members. 111
the figures of this year with those
of last year you will obscne that a gratifyillg increase has been made
in the number of candidates raised, the number of affiliates and those
restored to membership-per contra, you will find that the "Grim
Reaper" has not only claimed a larger quota of our brethren but,
sad to say, an increased percentage. Also it is unfortunate to discover that the- number of those suspended for non-payment of dues
has increased and there has been an increase in the number of those
expelled or suspended for tm-::\fasonic conduct.
But the fraternity is to be congratulated on the fact that it is
increasing in strength and stature. Your committee is pleased to note
that there has been a decided bcttcrme11t iu the work of the laggard
Secretaries, but there is still much room for improvement. Something
should be done in regard to the seeming disregard and carelessness of
those Secretaries who neglect to send their annual reports in on time,
and those Secretaries who send in incorrect reports and pay no heed
to the letters of the Grand Secretary, and he (the Grand Secretary)
is compelled to appeal to the
of the lodge for the desired
information. There ought to be some means of disciplining the negligent Secretaries.
The amount for dues for which the several lodges of this jurisdiction were indebted, for the year ending July 31, 1914, and which
have all been paid arc as follows:

H. Fr.mt,

Home
Main·

L. PATTON,

General

DANA R. WELLJ!R,

Fund.

CHAS.

Committee.

The report was approved by Grand Lodge.

131

California ·---············-·---$
Western Star ............. .. 2
Tehama -·····---···3
Benicia ..
5
Tuolumne ···········-·········· 8
"

611.95 $
100.55
235.00
120.25
132.40

581.00 $
89.00
220.00
115.00
132.00

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

Allowed
Rep'tives.

290.50 $ 1.483.45 $
44.50
234.05
110.00
565.00
57.50
292.75
66.00
330.40

22.20
6.00
13.20

PROCEEDI~GS

132

OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALII<'ORNIA

Horne
lluilding
l'm1d.

Corinthian ............ --... -.... 9
............ 10
San Jose ...
........ ...... 12
Youut .....
13
:\e\'ada
14
Temple
Em ck a ................ ..... 16
La Parfaitc llnion ________ 17
18
:\Ionntain Shade
San Joaquin ,. ................ 19
\Vashington ·---- ............. 20
... 21
Hawaiian
............ 22
Ckcickntal
:\Ia di son
----····--·------- 23
............ 24
:\Iariposa
( ~l'orgctown
........... 25
Palmyra ................... ...... 26
.......... ,.. 27
Trinity
.... 30
Colden Cate
( ;uld Hill
......... 32
....... 33
Ophir ............
35
San Diego
37
St. John's
Santa Cruz
·········· 38
Yuba ·········"··--····· ··········• 39
Sacramento
---·· 40
........... 41
I\fartincz
42
Los Angeles
Hiram
·············· 43
..... 44
I\f ount I\f oriah -·
........... 45
Crescent
T'cxas ............... .............. 46
...... so
Forbcstown
Tllinoistown
--··----······ 51
Suisun ............................ 55
Volcano
-----·-········ 56
S<111ta Rosa .................... 57
L:nion ················--············ 58
Crave] Range ················ 59
Plumas ............................ 60
Live Oak .................. --- 61
Ctorge Washington . - 62
._

_.

127.85
447.80
185.80
172.90
94.30
109.75
189.15
28.55
340.10
179.05
268.25
566.75
144.25
39.90
50.50
188.55
77.85.
591.05

57.60
49.40
452.15
132.40
258.60
107.45
199.05
95.60
653.85
30.50
407.70
73.30
26.60
30.40
83.65
135.70
26.60
260.00
278.85
38.40
66.55
735.15
40.85

123.00
424.00
164.00
162.00
74.00
105.00
177.00
29.00
298.00
159.00
311.00
545.00
135.00
42.00
50.00
189.00
63.00
519.00
48.00
52.00
437.00
112.00
228.00
91.00
1i9.CO
88.00
483.00
30.D1
3 ~6.0J
740'.l
23.00
32.f'O
67.00
106.00
28.00
260.00
243.00
32.00
6900
697.00
43.00

61.50
212.00
82.00
81.00
37.00
52.50
88.50
14.50
149.00
79.50
155.50
272.50

67.50
21.00
25.00
94.50
31.50
259.50
24.00
26.00
218.50
56.00
114.00
45.50
89.50
44.00
241.50
15.00
173.0Cl
37.00
14.00
16.00
33.50
53.00
14.00
130.00
121.50
16.00
34.50
348.50
21.50

Total.

312.35
1,083.80
431.80
415.90
205.30
267.25
454.65
72.05
787.10
417.55
734.75
1,384.25
346.75
102.90
125.50
472.05
172.35
1,369.55
129.60
127.40
1.107.65
300.40
600.60
243.95
467.55
227.60
1,378.35
75.00
926.70
184.30
68.60
78.40
184.15
294.70
68.60
650.00
643.35
86.40
170.05
1,780.65
105.35

Allowed
Rep'tives.

7.50
2.50
2.50
13.20
2.00
8.20
30.00
5.00
6.00

6.80
14.70
45.00
26.90
5.60
7.50
6.00
180
35.00
12.70
60.80
5.70
17.20
10.10
3.00
2.50
6.00
21.60
12.70

Building

Fund.

~··········-----··

30.20
12.20
12.40
33.10

Home

Ceneral

Natoma --····-···· --········· 64
........... 65
Amador
.......... c6
Forest ...........
Morning Star
68
Enterprise ...
·········· 70
Bear l\fount;:;in
..... 76
Calaveras ........................ 78
Humboldt ................ ..... 79
Ione ............ ., ........ ,,., ........ 80
Yolo --····----·--·-···--···-····---- 81
Rising Star .................... 83
Vesper
.......... 84
Naval ········----·················· 87
Rose's Star ··········-········· 89
North Star .................... 91
Acacia ....................... ... 92
St. Helena _____ -----···------- 93
Henry Clay .............. _____ 95
Howard .......................... 96
Jefferson ........................ 97
Hornitos ........................ 98
Yosemite
99
Clay ................................ 101
Oroville --------· .. ·-----......... 103
Lexington ···--··------ ...... 104
Arcata ............................ :06
Pajaro ··-------···-------···------110
Chico .............................. 111
Summit .......................... 112
Eden ............................... .113
Concord ......................... .117
Clinton ------------· .. ·-----------.119
Fidelity ---------................. 120
Alamo ............................ 122
Sotoyome ----·------·----------123
Table Mountain ............ 124
La Fayette .................... 126
.,

H•••••••••••"••••••••••

~~a~:n~___::::::::::::::::::::::::~;~

.Nicolaus ....................... 129
Woodbridge ................. .131

91.15
80.20
45.00
256.10
161.40
85.55
82.40
342.20
61.30
43.85
46.55
173.80
430.00
59.35
62.35
20.90
97.25
66.90
88.80
43.75
28.50
133.95
70.75
217.60
85.10
122.20
132.45
235.15
27.55
146.40
132.30
51.60
570.20
81.30
221.00
63.80
149.35
228.75
174.85
87.45
89.50

133

Fund.

77.00
76.00
40.00
238.00
152.00
89.00
72.00
31600
54.00
43.0Q
49.00
164.00
380.00
53.00
53.00
22.00
95.00
62.00
84.00
45.00
30.00
121.00
65.00
188.00
78.00
J 16.00
131.00
217.00
29.00
132.00
114.00
48.00
536.00
74.00
180.00
64.00
133.00
205.00
152.00
71.00
90.00

38.50
38.00
20.00
119.0CI

76.00

44.50
36.00
158.00
27.00
21.50
24.50
82.CO
190.00
26.50
26.50
11.00
47.50
31.00
42.0D
22.50

co.so
32.50
94.00
39.00
58.00
65.SO
108.50
14.50
66.00
57.00
24.00
268.00
37.0D
90.00
32.00
66.50
102.50
76.00
35.50
45.00

Total.

206.65
194.20
105.00
613.10
389.40
219.G5
190.40
816.20
142.30
108.35
120.05
419.80
1,000.00
138.85
141.85
53.90
239.75
159.90
214.80
111.25
73.50
315.45
168.25
499.60
202.JO
296.20
328.95
560.65
71.05
344.40
303.30
123.60
1,374.20
192.30
491.00
159.80
348.85
536.25
402.85
193.95
224.50

Allowed
H.ep'tives.

8.00
10.lS
2+.60
5.00
7.40

15.20
12.10
40.00
8.20
5.50
13.10
15.00
2.00
12.50
32.10
12.40
3.10
11.70
26.90
29.60
12.10
8.10
11.30
12.00
35.80
20.90
5.50
10.20
9.20
.70
20.30
2.00
4.50
3.60
17.00
7.40
5.80

GHAND LOJJGE OF CALlr'OHNJA

PROCEEDINGS OF TlHJ

134

Sincerity ___ ........... .... .132
.. .134
Vaca\·ilk
.... 135
Valley
..... 136
Paci!ic
.... .139
Crockett
........ 140
Curtis ·----Crafton ..................... ... 141
.......... 143
Franklin
Oriental .......................... 144
.................. 145
Vitrtl\'it·s
............ 146
:\bell .....
Eel River ........................ 147
........... .149
Lassen
Molino ............................ 150
........ 156
'vV oodland ..
Keystone
........ .161
Harmony
....... 164
........ .166
Excelsior
;\lamed a
....... .167
Redwood City ............. 168
J\f ission .......................... 169
Elk Grove .. , ..... ........ 173
Drytown ...... .,. .............. 174
Antioch .. ----..... ...... 175
Phoenix ·--- .. ······· ........... .178
Mendocino .................... 179
Petaluma ..
...... .180
Russian River .............. 181
Meridian ··--······-- ........... 182
Clear Lake .. .. .......... 183
Sierra Valley ........... 184
Claiborne ........................ 185
Eveni11g Star ............... .186
Keith ................................ 187
Oakland
.. 188
Nonhern Light ............ 190
:\[ arin
.............. .191
Santa Barbara .............. 192
Ferndale ................. ...... 193
l\Ionntain View ....... 194
Bnckeye .......................... 195
._

"""

--~---·

Home
:\Iain·

General

Home
Building

Fund.

Fnnd.

Total.

21.50
66.00
20.50
319.00
207.50
25.50
14.50
31.50
182.00
28.50
66.00
59.00
5050
33.00
88.50
13.00
6.00
199.50
Sl.00
63.50
446.50
34.00
12.50
50.50
116.50
66.00
108.00
41.00
23.00
13.50
16.50
25.00
15.50
59.00
283.50
38.50
112.00
76.00
47.00
45.SO
43.50

105.35
332.40
101.45
1.671.10
1,142.75
132.95
78.05
160.35
936.80
141.65
335.40
297.10
256.45
170.70
449.65
65.70
29.40
l,019.55
261.90
345.15
2,272.85
171.60
61.25
261.45
602.85
346.40
563.20
223.90
113.70
69.15
84.85
126.SO
75.95
314.10
1,455.15
199.65
579.80
405.40
239.30
239.95
238.15

40.85
134.40
39.95
714.10
520.25
56.45
34.55
65 85
390.80
56.15
137.40
120.10
104.95
71.70
184.15
26.70
11.40
421.05
108.90
154.65
933.35
69.60
23.75
109.95
253.35
148.40
239.20
100.90
44.70
28.65
35.35
SI.SO
29.45
137.10
604.65
84.15
243.80
177.40
98.30
103.45
107.65

43.00
132.CO
4100
638.00
415,00
51.00
29.00
63.00
364.00
57.00
132.00
118.00
101.00
66.00
177.00
26.00
12.00
399.00
102.00
127.00
893.00
68.00
25.00
101.00
233.00
132.00
216.00
82.00
46.00
27.00
33.00
50.00
31.00
118.00
567.00
77.00
224.00
152.00
94.00
91.00
87.00

135

Allowed
Rep'tives.

38.00
4.10
5.90

6.00
6.70
6.00

7.00
37.00
11.30
5.20

1.70

6.60

38.75
15.00
2.00
3.90
8.30
10.00

23.00
12.00
35.40
4.40
.20
20.10
.70
26.80
23.50
2.30
5.10

Total.

San Simeon .................. 196
Wilmington ... . . .198
Hartley ........................... 199
Truckee .......................... 200
Silveyvillc .....................201
Pentalpha .................. .202
Confidence ................... .203
Salinas ........................... .204
N ewvilie .......................... 205
Stanislaus ...................... 206
Anaheim ........................ 207
Rio Vista ....................... .208
King David's ........... .209
Friendship ...................... 210
San Benito ....................211
So. San F rancisco ....... .212
San Buenaventura ......214
Oak Grove . .............. .215
Doric ............................... 216
Monterey ....................... .217
Mosaic ........................... .218
Speranza Italiana ........219
Downey ......................... .220
Inyo ................................. .221
Granite ........................... .222
Bakersfield .................... 224
Brooklyn ........................ 225
San Mateo ................... .226
Athens ............................ .228
Solano ........................... 229
North Butte ................. .230
Cove lo ........................... .231
Janesville ........................ 232
Calistoga ....................... .233
Hope ................................ 234
Surprise Valley ........ 235
Hills Ferry .................... 236
Guadalupe ................... .237
Coltisa ................. ......... 240
~~~~oli:a ...................... 24;
........................24-

34.20
69.20
101.80
139.90
84.20
562.85
29.60
155.45
51.10
107.05
116.90
72.90
216.00
262.05
97.30
207.60
128.50
465.15
505.30
125.65
107.25
220.30
104.25
52.35
73.00
346.90
424.35
168.95
75.25
279.70
88.75
41.80
56.30
83.15
60.45
46.65
78.05
77.40
85.85
365.50
95.55

36.00
56.0'J
104.00
12200
76.00
503.00
28.00
151.CO
38.00
99.00
102.00
62.00
20000
259.00
94.00
188.00
130.00
437.00
474.00
107.00
95.00
194.00
95.00
53.00
60.00
302.00
353.00
141.00
75.00
246.00
85.00
44.00
54.00
77.00
51.00
47.00
59.00
72.00
83.00
310.00
89.00

18.00
28.00
52.00
61.00
38.00
251.50
14.00
75.50
19.00
49.50
51.00
31.00
100.00
129.50
47.0il
94.00
·65.00
218.50
237.00
53.50
47.50
97.00
47.50
26.50
30.00
151.00
176.50
70.50
37.50
123.00
42.50
22.00
27.00
38.50
25.50
23.50
29.50
36.00
41.50
155.00
44.50

88.20
153.20
257.80
322.90
198.20
1,317.35
7160
381.95
103.10
255.55
269.90
165.90
516.00
650.55
238.30
489.60
323.50
1,120.65
1,216.30
286.15
249.75
511.30
246.75
131.85
163.00
799.90
953.85
380.45
187.75
648.70
216.25
107.80
137.30
198.65
136.95
117.15
166.55
185.40
210.35
830.50
229.05

Allowed
Rcp'tivcs.

23.30
35.70
17.60
16.90
4.20
35.00
6.00
6.50
13.70
5.90
36.50
6.00
17.60
2.50
5.30
23.40
.20
6.00
2.50
35.70
55.60
6.40
21.80
.20
1.20
4.60
2.00
8.60
21.00
35.40
4.10
22.80
53.60
6.30
20.10
9.50
36.00
26.80

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PlWCEEDING8 OF THE

136

Home
]\fain-

Fund.

Eucalyptus ................... .243
................ .244
.\lcatraz
Lat•rcl ............................ .245
........ .246
Pomona
Fresno ......................... .247
....................... .248
.\lturas
.............. 250
:\din ··-···
..................... ?"?
~JBodie
Landmark ................. .... 253
............... 254
Reading
\.Ve !come ·-·· ................ .255
Lodi ................................ 256
.... .258
Pcnrhyn ·······
Evergreen ...................... 259
King Solomon's ........ .260
Tuscan ........................... .261
............... .262
Lompoc
Hcsperian ..................... .264
............ .265
Orland
North East ... ................266
.............. .267
Calt .....
........... .268
Durant
Olh·e Branch ............... .269
Snow :\fountain .......... .271
.................. 272
Pasadena
Anchor ············--···· ........273
.\rroyo ............................ 274
Oakdale ......................... .275
Selma -----.......... .277
Son them Calif. ......... .278
11 an for cl ····-... .279
:\! adcra .......................... 280
::\It. Shasta .... ................ .281
Callayomi
............282
South \Vest ......... ......... .283
San i\f iguel .... .............. 285
Paso Roh ks ........... ...... 286
\Vinnl'tlnmah
........ ..287
:\Iaxwcll .......................... 288
Elsinore ..... - ................. .289
. .... 290
East Gate ······ ..
------~---

102.10
401.25
139.15
293.00
344.95
79.50
43.75
36.10
58.70
171.35
90.70
175.65
95.80
339.00
530.55
54.20
119.50
221.10
101.95
46.90
46.05
444.45
142.35
41.30
473.95
98.20
47.50
77.80
126.40
729.85
162.10
101.40
57.45
40.45
149.45
JOI.OS
59.20
114.25
41.35
56.60
716.75

Home

98.00
375.00
117.00
280.00
321.00
70.00
45.CO
38.00
46:00
153.00
86.00
167.00
84.00
320.00
509.00
56.00
110.00
218.00
81.00
42.00
39.00
431.00
133.00
34.00
421.00
76.00
50.00
64.00
112.00
683.00
158.00
92.00
51.00
31.00
111.00
79.00
56.00
95.00
33.00
48.00
605.00

rvl:iin-

Home
Building
Fund.

General

137

49.0)
187.50
58.50
140.00
160.50
35.00
22.50
19.00
23.00
76.50
43.W
83.50
42.00
160.00
254.50
28.00
55.00
109.00
40.50
21.00
19.50
215.50
66.50
17.00
210.50
38.00
25.00
32.00
56.00
341.50
79.00
46.00
25.50
15.50
55.50
39.50
28.00
47.50
16.50
24.00
302.50

Total.

249.10
963.75
314.65
713.00
826.45
184.50
111.25
93.10
127.70
400.85
219.70
426.15
221.80
819.00
1,294.05
138.20
284.50
548.10
223.45
109.90
104.55
1.090.95
341.85
92.30
1,105.45
212.20
212.50
173.80
294.40
1,754.35
399.10
239.40
133.95
86.95
315.95
219.55
143.20
256.75
90.85
128.60
1,624.25

Genera)
Fund.

Allowed
Rep'tives.

1.00
.20
10.60
37.00
15.50
46.60

5.90
17.10
18.10
5.50

Santa Paula ................. .291
......... 292
Los Gatos ..
Orange Grove ............... .293
.............. .294
Traver
Mt. Jackson ................. .295
Silver Gate •••"---- ........... 296
Dunsmuir .... .................297
Mokclumne Hill ......... .298
Liberty ----····--·-·----· ........ .299
Redlands ...................300
Ontario ........... ................301
Santa Lucia ..................302
Porterville
..... 303
Reedley ............................304
Azusa ................ :.............305
............ 306
Ashlar ······
Santa 1Iaria ................ 307
Monrovia ····-··
..... 308
Delano .. ......................... 309
Sisson ............... .............310
Los Banos ...................... 312
Tehachapi ...................... 313
Temescal ........................ 314
Norwalk
..... ,...315
Sanger ............................ 316
Fallbrook ........................ 317
Emmmmel ...................318
Hollenl;eck .................... 319
South Gate .................... 320
Alisa! .............................. 321
Alhambra ........................ 322
Whittier ..........................323
Corona ............................324
Consuelo ........................ 325
Needles ..........................326
Long Beach .................... 327
Redondo .......................... 328
Vallee de Vrance ...... 329
Kila1,ea ............................ 330
Pacific Grove ................331
San Pedro ......................332
.-~.---

38.50
7.60
22.50
19.50

6.60
.20
17.00
14.80
35.50
18.20
6.70
15.50
35.00
16.80
1640
8.00
45.00
11.90
16.60
55.40
8.10
42.40
35.00

152.15
120.05
113.50
91.35
94.30
495.60
108.75
53.30
215.95
268.75
148.05
71.70
168.40
73.85
81.00
129.85
149.15
140.70
93.35
75.25
57.30
121.75
98.35
61.20
81.95
50.15
54.30
760.35
877.40
66.95
291.45
198.75
410.75
82.55
149.95
368.20
129.75
105.05
143.75
69.65
238.70

Total.

t'l7.00
J 19.00
110.00

noo

74.00
388.00
105.00
54.00
181.00
245.00
139.00
66.00
172.00
63.00
80.00
123.00
137.00
126.00
73.00
75.00
54.00
125.00
93.00
56.00
81.00
37.00
54.00
673.00
732.00
61.00
251.00
185.00
365.00
69.00
121.00
316.00
125.00
99.00
161.00
67.00
186.00

68.50
59.50
55.CO
36.50
37.00
194.0(!
52.50
27.0G
90.50
122.50
69.50
33.00
86.00
31.50
40.00
61.50
68.50
63.00
36.50
37.50
27.00
62.50
46.50
28.00
40.50
18.50
27.00
336.50
366.00
30.50
125.50
92.50
182.50
34.50
60.50
158.00
62.50
49.50
80.50
33.50
93.00

357.65
298.55
278.50
200.85
205.30
1.077.60
266.25
134.30
487.45
636.25
356.55
170.70
426.40
168.35
201.00
314.35
354.65
329.70
202.85
187.75
138.30
309.25
237.85
145.20
203.45
105.65
135.30
1,769.85
1.975.40
158.45
667.95
476.25
958.25
186.05
331.45
842.20
317.25
253.55
385.25
170.15
517.70

Allowed
Rep'tives.

35.0:J
36.90
15.80
3.00
45.00
21.00
12.10
2.50
38.75
38.75
9.30
18.70
15.90
36.00
38.50
35.20
35.70
1880
21.90
7.50
23.70
38.30
35.90
15.30
43.90
35.00
35.00
2.20
35.50
35.80
35.50
41.90
45.00

35.50
35.50
35.00
6.30
36.00

139

Glt.\NlJ LODC:I<; Ul•' CALlFOltN!A

138

l'l\OCEEDINGS OF THE

Home
Building

General
Fund.

.................. 333
Alta
............... 334
Covina
\Vest Catc ................ 335
-- ...336
Frni!\·ak
..... 337
Carqui1wz
w .....

San

.................. 338

........ 339
Fullerton
..............341
Oxnard
San Fcrnamlo .... ......... 343
Starr

....................344

. 345
Hrcnlwood ......
Palo :\Ito ........................346
}!cKinlcy .. .................... 347
San Bernardino .. ..... 348
.......................... 349
.................. 351
Palestine
Sunset ............................ 352
Pi.i;iole .............................. 353
....... 354
Presidio ..
Hollywood .................... 355
~Iii! Valley ................... 356
Buena Park .................... 357
Golden State .................. 358
Loyalton ..........................359
San Francisco ............. .360
Fort Bragg ....................361
.................... .......362

Berkeley ..........................363
Olivet ........................... 364
Willits ... ....................... 365
Las Palmas ..... ............. .366
$outh Pasadena .......... 367
Unity ................. .............. 368
Ocean Park .................... 369
Amity ................ .......... .370
Oceanic .......................... 371
.......372
Gardena
Veteran ................... ......373
............ .374
Jewel ...
Richmond ......................375
Francis Drake .............. 376

32.35
170.45
421.00
322.05
95.55
105.35
183.05
170.55
82.20
349.45
88.60
226.65
175.60
269.70
563.70
384.35
451.75
69.50
331.15
338.45
220.40
66.50
516.95
37.10
254.85
75.30
86.35
346.70
66.15
95.05
346.30
166.55
209.65
201.55
365.75
123.50
82.30
169.95
100.45
314.90
78.50

33.00
151.00
400.00
239.00
89.00
93.00
159.00
169.00
76.00
271.00
68.00
187.00
168.00
246.00
446.00
293.00
365.00
70.00
277.00
271.00
172.00
50.00
401.00
38.00
223.00
74.00
73.00
326.00
57.00
79.00
274.00
169.00
187.00
189.00
305.00
134.00
74.00
141.00
91.00
282.00
70.00

Home
Buitding
Fund,

Allowed

Fund.

Total.

16.50
75.50
200.00
119.50
44.50
46.50
79.50
84.SO
38.00
135.50
34.00
93.50
84.00
123.00
223.00
146.50
182.50
35.00
138.50
135.50
86.00
25.00
200.50
19.00
111.50
37.00
36.50
163.00
28.50
39.50
137.00
84.50
93.50
94.50
152.50
67.00
37.00
70.50
45.50
141.00
35.00

81.85
396.95
1,021.00
680.55
229.05
244.85
421.55
424.05
196.20
755.95
190.60
507.15
' 427.60
638.70
1,232.70
823.85
999.25
174.50
746.65
744.95
478.40
141.50
U18.45
94.10
589.35
186.30
195.85
835.70
151.65
213.55
757.30
420.05
490.15
485.0S
823.25

Rep'tives.

36.40
35.00
.20
1.80
42.40
37.00
29.00
35.0CJ
3.40
1.90
.70
38.75
.20
35.00
35.00
1.10
35.00
.50
36.20
35.00
19.40
17.00
3.00
.20
14.80
11.00
15.50
35.00
35.00
35.20

~o5

35.50
35.20

2
5
737.90
183.50

.70

0

...... 377
Artesia ......... ..
..... 378
Mizpah
Fillmore ---··-----·········· .... 379
Huntington Beach ...... 380
.... .381
Oceanside
Highland Park ............382
.......... 383
Orosi
El Centro .............. ......384
Dinuba .................. ......... 385
Coalinga .......................... 387
........ 3\.18
Parnassus
Palos Verdes ................ 389
Imperial ·--·-----····-······ ..... 390
East Belt ........................ 391
West Lake ....... c............392
Balder .............................. 393
·-----·······~···--·

.... .394
Turlock .......................... 395
Apollo .............................. 396
Rising Light ..................397
Fowler ............................ 398
Fraternity ...................... 399
Burlingame .................... 400
Bay View ....................... .401
Brawley .......................... 402
Yerba Buena .............. ..403
Glendora ........................ 404
Mon eta ............................ 405
Burbank .......................... 406
La Mesa ........................ 407
Sierra Madre .............. ..408
Honolulu ........................409
Charter Rock ............... .410
Perris ....... .. ............. .411
Calexico ....................... .412
Wat:coba ···--......... .413
Arlington . ...... .. ..... .414
Silver Trowel ................ 415
Lindsay ......................... .416
Clovis ............................. .417
Elysian ............................418

90.00
490.25
101.15
58.45
40.15
361.10
61.25
141.50
89.05
170.40
30.J.30
149.70
79.55
45.10
665.15
205.45
248.70
73.65
141.00
98.10
20.90
197.60
158.50
273.70
81.90
232.60
50.50
360.15
70.90
76.70
61.80
156.75
34810
49.70
88.40
38.60
127.00
168.70
60.40
57.00

268.55

80.00
384.00
77.00

51.00
37.00
298.00
55.00
110.00
79.00
152.00
234.00
106.00
69.00
38.00
497.00
171.00
lc6.0D
67.00
120.00
78.00
22.00
148.00
130.00
186.00
62.00
168.00
50.00
257.00
62.00
66.00
64.00
165.00
298.00
46.00
72.00
28.00
100.00
126 (',()
5.2.00
40.00
169.00

4000
192.00
38.50
25.50
18.50
149.00
27.50
55.00
39.50
76.m
117.0:J

s:rno
34 ..SO
19.0D
248.50
85.SO
83.00
33.50
60.00
39.00
11.00
74.00
65.00
93.00
31.00
84.00
25.00
128.50
31.00
33.00
32.00
82.50
149.00
23.00
36.00
14.00
50.00
63.00
26.00
20.00
84.50

Total.

210.00
1,066.25
216.65
134.95
95.65
808.10
143.75
30650
207.55
398.40
655.30
308.70
183.05
102.10
1.410.65
461.95
497.70
174.15
321.00
215.IO
53.90
419.60
353.50
552.70
174.90
484.60
125.'50
745.65
163.90
175.70
157.80
404.25
795.10
118.70
196.40
80.60
277.00
357.70
138.40
117.00
522.05

36.10
35.00
33.70
36.10
41.30
35.00
19.80
53.40
17.10
19.80
35.70
53.00
14.70
35.00
35.00
6.70
.20
35.30
15.10
2.50
1.00
52.70
.20
35.50
35.00
35.50
45.90
35.70
.20
39.80
54.40
53.10
35.01
35.C'O

18.10
15.70
35.00

.

GHAND LODGE OF CALlFOH.NlA

l'l{UCEl•:lJINGH OF Tille

140

Home
Afain-

Total.

..419
.. ..420

L'.pbncl
lZc:rman

.. ..421
..422
Eagle Rock
...... ..423
York
....... .424
Exeter
.425
Holt\·ilk
.... .426
l\lidway
... .427
Chi:Jo Valley
... .428
San Di mos
..429
Pittslmrg
..430
:\ rcCloml
....... ..431
:\ lpha
....... ..432
RPSC\·ilk
... .433
Ham111ontm1
......... AH
l\fa rice pa
.......... ..435
Fairmount
.. .436
Claremont
...4;:17
Lancaster
.... 438
Ccrmania
.. ..439
Tyrian ..
......... .l:. D.
Standard
........ U.D.
Coronado
....... U.D.
Blackmer
........... U.D.
Schotleld
Carpcntcria
-··---·--.. U.D.
....... .U.D.
WilshirC'
......... U.D.
La Puente .
........ U.D.
Torrance
U.D.
1\lt. Diablo
Park
... ......... U.D.
... L'. D.
Van Xuys
...... U. D.
1\lontebello
...... E n.
San Pasqual
"'~~

~·····""'"""

Totals

77.90
41.30
75.90
51.00
58.85
46.55
64.65
151.95
48.05
55.45
37.35
39.25
170.0'.J
110.45
47.40
58.05
472.90
51.CO
43.65
62.IO
37.00
172.50
119.00
132 00
111.25
39.90
161.55
58.60
46.83
27.75
124.75
;19.0D
20.30
55.10

62.00
34.00
62.00
40.00
43.00
49.00
47.00
81.00
39.00
51.00
33.00
35.00
120.GU
71.00
32.00
39.00
182.00
40.0~)

27.00
38.00
20.00
70.00
60.00
80.00
4300
22.00
109.00
28.00
23.on
25.00
45.00
20.00
14.00
58.00

31.00
1700
31.CO
20.00
21.50
24.50
23.50
40.50
19.50
25.50
16.50
17.50
60.00
35.50
16.00
19.50
91.00
20.00
13.50
19.00

Alluwe<!
Rcp'tives.

36.20
14.50
35.50
35.50
36.00
18.00
54.40
25.60
37.40
36.70

170.90
92.30
168.90
111.00
123.35
120.05
135.15
273.45
106.55
131.95
86.85
91.75
350.00
216.95
95.40
11655
745.90
111.00
84.15
11910
67.00
277.50
209.00
252.00
175.75
72.90
325.05
100.60
81.35
65.25
192.25
69.00
41.30
142. 10

moo
35.00
300~)

40.00
21.50
11.CO
54.50
14.00
11.50
12.50
22,50
!000
7.00
29.00

24.90
.70
6.10
9.50
25.10
37.20
28.40
35.00
5.0:)
45.00
45.00
28.00
35.00
36.00
35.70
2.50
35.00
35.00
35.50

- - - ----

----

$60.879.15 $53.179.0~l

$140,647.65 $6,325.35

141

REPORT OF COl'vI:\HT'I~EE ON GRAr\D LECTURER'S
REPORT.
Brother J. Stewart Ross. for the committee to whom
had been referred the annual report of the Grand Lecturer,
reported as follows, which was adopted:
To the ;w:. ~v:. Graiid Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom w;;s referred the annu;;l report of the

V.'. vV. :. Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer, has had the same under
consideration and begs leave to report as follows:
The report, which details the satisfactory condition of the lodges
throughout the state under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lecturer,
shows most emphatically the surpassing ability with which the Grand
Lecturer performs his ever increasing duties .
We feel that that portion of his report which shows that hr has
practically reached every nook and corner of this great jursidiction
and come in personal conduct with the :VIasons of each section, not
only shows his marked and zealous devotion to the duties of his office,
hut in a large way accounts for the unprecedented prosperity in our
lodges both numerically and financially, for though i\fasonry by no
means consists in mere efficiency of ritualistic work in the lodges,
nevertheless, the impressiveness and accuracy with which the lectures
are delivered by the i\Iasters and officers adds much to the benefits
which the candidate receives from the degrees and continues his interest
in the work which is the real secret of the prosperity of our lodges.
Your Committee especially invites your attention to that part of
Brother Baker's report in which he emphasizes the necessity for
extreme carefulness in the selection of candidates by the lodges and
to the further fact that he reports that the lodges are observing this
most important duty which further accounts for the prosperity' of our
order.
In conclusion, we desire to commend the entire report of the
Grand Lecturer not only for that part of the tmprecedented success
of the past year that may justly and properly he attributed to him,
hut for the courtesy and harmony that is shown throughout the report
to exist between onr very \Vorshipful Brother, Thomas J. Raker,
and all those with whom he has had communicatio11.
J. STEWART Ross,

0. L. SrEs.
snhmittecl,

R E. :\Lr.. \:.:.

\VM. J. C~Rl.Uc\LDI.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 9 o'clock
tomorrow morning.

142

l'lWCEEDJXG8 OF 'i'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3ht ~ranh illohgt.
.\lorning Session.
Thursday, October 14, 1914.
Grand Ludg·e was called un at 9 o'clock, the Grand
.\laster presiding.

Benicia .................. No.
Tuolumne .............. No.
Corinthian ............ No.
San Jose ............... So.

The minutes ni yesterday's session were read and
approved.
Brother A B. Harnett of Elsinore Lodge :\ o. 289 presented a claim for mileage for account of attending Grand
Lodge in Los c\ngeles in 1912. not heretofore paid, and the
same was referred to the Finance Committee.

Yount .................... No.

Nevada

REP< JRT OF CO.\DIITTEE ON CREDENTIALS.
Brother John \\'. Gwilt, Chairman of the Committee
on Credentials, reported the following Officers and Representatives of chartered Lodges, Delegates from Lodges
nnder dispensation and Past \Tasters by serYice within this
) urisdiction as being present and entitled to seats, viz: From
C;iJifornia ............. 1\ o.

Star

No.

Temple .................. No.
Eureka .................. No.

La Parfaite Union Ko.

L .. \Villiam H. Harrelson, Master;
J f arry Lincoln Dewey, Senior \Var(len;
Jesse M. \Vhitecl, Junior \Varden;
.l L Ascroft, Past ]\faster;
D. E. F. Ea,;ton, Past Master;
\V. C.
Past J\fastcr;
F. V.
Past Master;
IL A. J\fan·in, Past Master;
H. :\1. Owens. Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past Master;
R. IL Wilcox, Past Master.
2 .. Richard B. Ross, :\Taster.
3...Donald ::\kClain, Sc'nior \Varden;
H. J. Carpenter, P:ist ::\.faster;
J. J\Iclndorc, Past Master;
T. J. Milliken, Past Master;
F. L. Thirkielcl, Past Master.

Mountain SIrn cl e.... N o.

143

5....J. De Forest, Past ]\faster.
8....Eric J. Segerstrom, ]\faster;
G. T. Black, Past ]\.faster.
9 ... Yrank \V. Poole, l\Iaster;
Arthur \V. Gluckman, Senior \Varden.
10....Corndl H. Wheeler, Master;
Allan 0. Matthew, Junior \Varden;
J. P. Jarman, Inspector & Past Master;
R. Lowe, Past Master;
J. H. McGehee, Past Master;
L. V. Saph, Past Master.
12....J a mes H. ::VIorgan, Master;
J. A. Pederson, Past Master;
J. B. Stevens, Past Master;
F. \V. Williams, Past Master.
13 ....Benjamin Hall, Master;
Jam cs Snell, Senior \Varden;
F. L. Arbogast, Inspector & Past Master.
14.... Edwarcl S. Michelsscn, 2\Iaste.r; d
,Frederick D. Bose, Junior War en.
16....,Lincoln Buchanan, Junior \Varden;
H. Disque, Past Master;
M. D. Lininger, Inspector & Past Master.
17...J-lrcwster F. Ames, Master;
>farcus \V. Frederick, Senior Warden;
Alfred Gehret, Junior Warden;
A. L. Auradou, Past Master;
O. M. Goldaracena, Insp. & Past Master;
A. Huguenin, Past Master;
H. Mottet, Past Master.
18. .. E. L. Case, ]\.faster, Past Master & Insp.

· .......... N o. 19.... Freeman F. Black, iv1aster.
S an J oaqum
Washington .......... No. 20....John H. Lindemeyer, Master.
Hawaiian .............. No. 21.. ..Thomas J. Baker, Representative.
Occidental ............ No. 22... Herman Fowler Wilson, Master;
Charles P. Fonda, Senior \Varden;
Martin A. Schmidlin, Junior Warden;
O. C. Baldwin, Past Master;
S. H. Clawson, Past Master;
W. K. Fletcher, Past Master;
R. R. Vail, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

145

l'BOCBBDI};GS OF 'l'HE

144

}fadiscn

............. i\o. 23 .... G. L. Jones, Past Master.

~[ariposa

.............. No. 24....F. H. B. Catherwood, Master.
,L. A. C. H. Kylbcrg, Insp. & Past llfastcr;
E. P. Watson, Past Master.

Ceorgctown ......... So. 25 ....Charles E. Jewett, Senior \Varden.
Palmyra
Trinity
Golden Gate

26 ... :\Villiam F. Bray, Junior Warden;
L. A. Reeg, Inspector & Past Master.
......... No. 27 ....C. E. Goodyear, Representative.
.... No.

... .No. 30 .. ,Richard J. IL Forbes, :Master;
Lester A. Blair, Senior Warden·
William P. Caubu, Junior Warde~:
A. F. Heuer, Past Master;
.
J. H. Humphreys, Past llfaster;
T. H. MacDonald, Past [\faster·
E. L. Meyer, Past Master; . '
J. Patterson, Past Master;
W. G. Wright, Past Master.

Cold Hill .............. No. 32.... Hans P. Jansen, Master & Past Master;
J. Gerber, Past Master.
Ophir ...................... No. 33 ....John T. Morley, Master;
D. B. Driver, Past Master.
San Diego ............ No. 35 ....Edgar B. Levi, Master;
E. C. Bangs, Inspector & Past Master.
St. John's .............. No. 37....C. E. Butler, Representative & Past Master.
J. McC. O'Neill, Past Master.
Santa Cruz .......... No. 38.... Gerald F. Servio, Master;
J. W. Linscott, Past Master.
Yuba ····---·-···········-·No. 39....Charles E. Turner, Master;
,]. B. Fuller, Past Master;
E. E. Stone, Past Master.
Sacramento .......... No. 40....Joseph H. Stephens, Master;
F. J. Bidwell, Past Master;
R. P. Burr, Past Master;
J. B. Griffin, Past Master.
Martinez ................ No. 41....William R. Sharkey, Senior Warden;
W. S. Wells, Past ~faster.
Los Angeles .......... No. 42.... Ernest Z. Croxall, Master.
Hiram .................... No. 43 .... J. A. Fisher, Rep. & Past Master.

Mount Moriah .... No. 44.... Sterling .K. Campbell, Master;
John J. Stahl. Senior \Varden;
T. Frolich, Past Master;
\V. C. Hacke, Past Master;
J. C. Je11S, Past Master;
D. R Richards, Past Master.
Crescent ··-···· ........ No. 45 ...0. Dudley, Past Master;
Geo. C. Walton, Rep. & Past Master.
'l'exas .................... No. 46...\Vm. R. Flint, Master & Past Master;
Geo. H. Moore. S. W. & Past Master;
Wm. G. Regan, J. W. & Past Master;
Thomas Flint, Past Master.
Forbcstown .......... No.

50....William J. Schultz, Master & Past 1'11aster.
M. G. Hill, Past Master.

Illinoistown .......... No.

SL.Frank E. Miner, Master.
A. Stevens, Past Master.

Suisun ···········--··-····No.

55 .... Sanmel Grant Bransford, Master;
B. R. Stewart, Past Master.

Santa Rosa ......... .?\o. 57 .... Frederick 0. Reeder, Master;
J. T. Mailer, Past Master.
Union .................... No. 58.... E. F. Willi, Representative & Past Master;
T. J .. Baker, Past Master;
S. C. Denson, Past Master;
W. W. Douglas, Past Master;
J. F. Morgan, Inspector & Past Master;
B. \Vilson, Past Master.
Plumas .................. No. 60....Beverly F. Barber, Master.
Live Oak ............. No. 6L..William J. Garibaldi, Master;
Lee S. Greswold, Junior Warden;
C. E. Haven, Past Master;
A. B. Webster, Inspect-Or & Past Master;
C. H. Wood, Past Master.
Geo. \Vashington No. 62 ....\Valter S. Brown, Master;
C. D. Adam, Past Master.
Natoma

................ No. 64....William Cruickshank, Junior Warden.

Amador

................ No. 65 ...William 'I'. Brewer, Master;
J. E. Dye, Past Master.

GRAND LODGJD OF CALIFORNIA

146

Forest

147

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

..... No.

66... ;Thomas P. Fleming, Master;
Lewis Barnes, Senior vVarden;
John F. Lotspeich, Junior Warden.

l\forning Star ...... No.

68 .... Gcorgc M. Hardenbrook, Master.
0. S. Henderson, Past Master.

Enterprise ........... :fo.

70....Carl G. Ott, l\Iastcr.

.. No.

Arcata
Pajaro

106.... Gco. H. Burchard, ]\faster & Past l\faster.

................ No. 110 ... Edward H. Nohrdcn, ]\faster.

Chico ................... No.

111. .. Chester H. Roake, Master.

Bear Mountain .... ,\' o.

76....T. H. Davey, Rep. & Past Master.

Summit .................. No. 112.... Waltcr B. Willms, Master & Past l\Iaster.
Eden ...................... No. 113 ....Joseph B. Mills, Master;
Monroe Drew, Senior \Varden;
\Vilton \V. Shuhaw, Junior \Varden;
S. B. Force, Past Master.

Calaveras

78 ... ,]. A. Holland, Rep. & Past l\faster.

Clinton .................. No. 119.... Francis l\L Wilder, Master.

79.... Waltcr S. Gemmill, Master.
T. R. Dinsmore, Inspector & Past Master.

Fidelity ................. ."No. 120... Joshua H. Bloom, Master;
Benjamin Kraus. Senior \Varden :
Sholon Silverstone, Junior Warden;
J. D. Abrams, Past "!\faster;
J. Nieto, Past Master.

....... No.

Humboldt ............. So.
Ione

................ No. 80....Georgc ]. Yager, Master.

Yolo

................ No. SL.Asa F. Pettit, Master.

Rising Star .......... No. 83 .... J. L. Thomas, Rep. & Past Master.
Vesper
Naval

.......... Ko. 84... ,William F. O'Connor, Master.
............ No.

87.... Charlcs \V. Causbrook, Master;
James Ramsey, Senior Warden;
Harry H. Holmes, Junior Warden;
J. J. Luchsinger, Past ]\faster;
]. E. Wilson, Past .Master.

Rose's Bar ............ No. 89.... Robert Beatty, Rep. & Past Master.
North Star ............ No. 91.. .. Horace V. Ley, Master & Past l\faster.
Acacia .................... No. 92....John McKay, Junior Warden.
St. Helena ............ No. 93 ....J ohn S. Noble, Master & Past Master.

Alamo ....

...No. 122.... C. ]. Booth, Rep. & Past Master.

Soto yo me

.. ... No. 123 .... Edward ]. Hyman, Master;
E. Bush, Inspector & Past Master.

La Fayette ........ _No.

126.... Frcd F. Ames, Junior Warden.

HernEmn ............ .I'\o. 127 ... Jacob \Vcilcr, Master & Past Master;
Herman F. I-L Schmidt, Senior 'Warden;
L. Muller, Inspector & Past Master;
S. ]. Thicscn, Past Master.
Visalia

.............. No. 128... D. E. Perkins, Rep. & Past Master.

Nicolaus .............. So. 129.... Hcnry C. Jasper, Senior Warden.
Wtiodbridge

........ No. 131....A. A. McClelland, Rep. & Past :\faster.

Henry Clay .......... No. 95 ....Gustave Schrader, Master;
E. C. Voorheis, Past Master.

Sincerity ................ No. 132....Harry D. \Vardlow, Senior Warden.

Howard ................ No. 96....C. I-I. }forrison, Rep. & Past Master.

Vacaville

Jefferson

.............. No.

97.... R. H. Kingdon, Master & Past Master;
A. McFarland, Past Master.

Hornitos ................ No. 98 .... A. Heinricks, Rep. & Past Master.
Yosemite

.............. No. 99.... Archibald L. Silman, Master.

Clay ........................ No. 101....Solon M. Curtis, S. W. & Past Master.
Oroville .................. No. 103.... Richard P. Blood, Senior Warden;
H. ]. Graham, Inspector & Past Master;
R. S. Kitrick, Past Master.
Lexington

............ No. 104.... A. C. Drake, Rep. & Past Master.

.............. No. 134.... Hcrbert F. Fowler, '.\,faster.

Valley .................... No. 135 ....Edgar L. Davis, Master & Past Master.
Pacific .................... No. 136....Erncst L. West, Master;
Hugo Hertz, Senior \Varden;
Thomas Anderson, Junior Warden;
]. \V. Anderson, Past Master;
G. L. Darling, Past Master;
F. L. Hansen, Past Master;
I. P. Kincaid, Past Master;
T. Pendlington, Past Master;
G. M. Perine, Past Master;
A. W. Turpin, Past Master.

H8

GlL\NlJ LOJKl.1£ OF CALIFOH.NlA

Crockett ................ No. 139.... Hugh ]. Lloyd, Master;
Arthur Brand, Senior \Varden;
·waiter E. Sammis, Junior \Varden·
Jf. \V. Maass, Past Master;
'
H. McRirney, Past :\faster;
T. Rowlands, Past Master.

:\lissio1;

Grafton ................. 1\o. 141.. .. Alcxantler L. Kennedy, Junior \Varden;
F. E. Ely, Past Master.

Oriental .................. No. 144.... George B. Lake. :\faster:
John F. Clute, Junior \Varden·
\V. R. Jost, Past l\fastcr.
'
.\bell

................ No. 146.... Frank T. Barker, Master:
Hale
Jr., Senior Wanlcn;
C. l\L Mannon, Past ]\faster;
]. H. Barker, Past ]\faster.

Lassen

...... No. 149 ... .]. E. Pardee, Rep. and Past Master.

J\folino

....... No. 150....Jolm T. Y011lcs, l\iaster.

Woodland

.... Xo. 156.... H. H. Gable, Rep., Jnsp. arnl Past l\Iaster;
\V. R. Langenour, Past ]\faster.

Excelsior ............. So. 166.... Joseph A. Kuykendall, :Master;
G. R. Armstrong, Past :!\faster;
\V. N. Brunt, Past Master:
P. F. Furguson, Past ]\faster;
E. L. Forster, Past Master;
R G. Guyett, Jnsp. and Past .Master;
F. C.
Past Master;
H. ]. Owen, Past Master.
Alameda ............... No. 167 .... Arthur W. Haley, 2\faster;
A. ]. Hare, Past :\foster.
'f
Redwood City ...... No. 168 ... C. G. Lanclschcit. Jnsr). and P:1st
.
" aster;
T. 0. l Teyclenfcldt, Past ]\faster.

t----- - - - - - - - - -

..X o. 169 ... Otto L. Sues, llfaster;

Eugene B. Hallett, Senior \Varden;
Thomas L Jan es, Junior \Varden:
R. E. Allan, Past Master;
R. S. Allen, Inspector and Past Master;
E. I'. Crosett, Past ]\faster ;
J. F. Deemer, Past Master;
\V. W. J\foore, Past Master;
J\L H. Renwick, Past Master;
E. V.l. Tucker, Past Master;
J. Hazlett. Past Master.

Curtis .................... No. 140.... Chas. L. Sedu.... lcy·, M11stcr & P ast .1'I aster.

Franklin ................ No. 143 ... 1-f. D. Kercheval. Rep. & Past :\Taster;
1J. H. Hyde, Past J\Iastcr.

149

Elk Grove

........ !\ o. 173 ... Andrew Elliott, Master.

Drytown ................ No. 174 .... J. 1\1. Hinkson, Past Master.
Antioch ...

__ No. 175 .... L. R Brestwer, Past Master.

Phoenix ............... X o. 178 .... \Valter B. Howes, Past Master & J\Iastcr;
M. J. Newburg, Past Master .
Mendocino ........... !\ o. 179.... C. Banker, Rep. and Past Master;
F. Halling, Past ]\faster.
Petaluma ............. No. 180.... Thomas T. McGuire, Master.
Russian Rhcr ____ So. ISL.William H. Calhoun. }.faster & P. }.faster:
G. T. Trowbridge, Past l\Iaster.
l\kridian

...... No. 182.. .Charles c. McMullen, Senior Warden;
D. Cramer, Past :l\Iaster.

....... :\o. 183.. .Louis Jago, Junior \Varden .
.Xo. 184. .. William L. Nichols, Senior \Varden.
Sierra Valley

Clear Lake

Claiborne ......... _.:\o. 185 .... Hcnry Howe, :l\Iaster.
Evening Star

.... So. 186 .... Cliarles W. Nutting, l\L, P. l\L & lnsp.;

Keith .................... No. 187 ... \Villiam F. Rlake, l\Iaster & Past Master;
G. E. Skillicorn, Past Master.
Oakland ....

.... '\'o. 183... I tarry T. l\foore, Master:
R B. Gaylord, Past ]\faster;
]. FL McLafferty, Past Master;
J. R l\krritl, Past l\faster.

Northern Light .. .No. 190 ... Herman H. Bntzbach, l\faskr & Past 11.
l\Iarin ....

.. .. '.'\n. 191 .. .John J\J. Sims, Master;

Albert X. Boycn, Senior \Varden:
F. M. Angellotti, Past Master;
C. F. Rodden, Inspector and Past Master.

150

l'IWCEEDINGS OF THE

Santa Barbara ______ No. 192 ____ Frank P. Smartt, Master;
E. 0. Farnum, Past Master.
Ferndale ·---··- _______ No. 193 ____ Frank Cummings, Master.
:i\fountain View .... Ko. 194... C. P. Berry, Representative & Past Master.
Buckeye ·----·· ________ f\ o. 195_ .. James H. Haile, Master.

Wilmington

_______ No. 196 ___ -J ohn H. Bradhoff, Master;
A. Frankl, Past :;\faster.
________ ?\ o. 198 ___ Don C. Fohl, Master.

Hartley

_____ No. 199 ... J. D. l\fonroe, Rep. and Past Master.

Truckee

___ No. 200 ___ George Carson, Master and Past Master.

San Simeon

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Doric -·····--

151

-···-···---··No. 216 .... Frederick W. Stapff, Master;
B. Levi, Past ]\faster.

M-;nt~rey ---·----·-·--·No. 217 ....Frank Monroe Carder, Junior Warden.
Mosaic ----·-'---··-·--·-·-No. 218 .... F. F. Brady, Rep. and Past Master.
Speranza Ttaliana.. N o. 219 -_.Clemente C. Peini, ]\faster; V I
Antonio Cogliandro, Senior \ an en;
Sisto Rasori, Junior Warden;
P. Righetti, Past Master;
G. Scalrnanini, Insp. and Past Master.
Downey ····------··----··No. 220 .... J olm M. Reeves, Master.

SilveyYille

----·----.No. 20L .John L. Nagel, Master.

Inyo ----····-------·----··-·No. 22L .. Cecil I. ]\facFarlanc, Master.

Pcntalpha

---···---.No. 202 ___ Isadore F. Whom es, Master;
Francis ]\J. -Parker, Senior Warden;
W. R. Hervey, Past ]\faster.

Granite ------···---·-·---No. 222 ____ 0vid H. Ricksecker, Master & Past Master.

Confidence
Salinas

.... No. 203 .... \Valter C. Buttle, Master and Past l\faster.
____ No. 204 ____ Robert Warnock, Senior Warden.

"'\ C'Wville .

_______ No. 205 ___ Ray F. Houghton, -:\faster & Past Master.

Stanislaus .

________ No. 206 .... Andrew N. Frost, Master;
Sylvain S. Latz, Senior Warden;
Jam es E. Hosmer, Junior Warden.
_____ No. 207.... W. Falkenstein, Rep. and Past Master.

_-\nahC'im _

Rio Vista . -----·----.. No. 20S ____ Frank B. Smith, Junior Warden;
A. Gloff, Past ]\faster.
King David's

.... No. 209 ___ \Valter D. Adriance, Jun. War. & P. l\I.;
J. Whicher, Past Master.

Friendship _

.... No_ 210 ---Louis E. Wilson, Master;
John ]. Schmidt, Senior W ardcn;
\Villiam W. Paull, Junior \Varden;
G. T. Lemon, Past Master.
San Hcnito ___________ No. 21L __ Richard Vv. O'Bannon, Junior \Vanlcn.
So. San Francisco No. 212 .... August F_ Mayer, Master;
Henry F,. Nolan, Senior \Varden.
San lluC'na\-etltura No. 214 ____ Dellwrt :\. Reese, Senior \Varden;
D. ]. Reese, Inspector and Past ::<.faster.
Oak Grove ............ No, 215 .... Charlcs A. Allardyce, ]\faster;
Henry F. Strachan, Senior Warden;
Henry C. Lassen, Junior Warden.

Bakersfield -----··---··No. 224 ____ Judson E. Dyer, M~ster and Past Master;
Earl B. Gilbert, Semor Warden;
Charles R. Dennen, Junior Warden;
A. S. Crites, Inspector and Past Master.
Brooklyn

San Mateo

---·-------··-No. 225 ...Charles E. Stowe, Master;
Edwin]. Wold, Senior Warden;
Chester V. Newell, Junior Warden ;
F. J. Rennie, Past Master;
G. D. \i\farren, lnsp. & Past Master.
.

No. 22 6 ... Howard M. Taylor, Master;
Frederick E. Beer, Senior Warden;
Francis J. Cochran, Junior Warden;
C. A. Wainwright, Past Master.

Athens ---·-··--·-----·-·--No. 228 ....C. T. Oeste, Representative & Past Master;
B. B. Tuttle, Past Master.
Solano ·····-···--····----·No. 229 .... Herbert F. Gordon, MaWsterd;
John M. Inglis, Senior
ar en;
Osgood H. Hilton, Junior Warden;
A. S. Halliday, Past Master;
R. L. Robertson, Inspector & Past Master;
J. E. Sanderson, Past Master ;
J. F. Walter, Past Master.
North Butte ________ No. 230.... George W. Blair, Master & Past Master.
Covelo -···--·-·- --·-·--··No. 23L.Charlcs H. Hurt, P. M. & Sen. Warden.
.
232 Stanley E. Tyler, Master and Past Master;
J anesv11le ·-··------··--No.
-·-·
cl p t Master
S. H. Crow, Inspector an
as
·

152

.............. No. 233 .... Henry J. Clement, l\Iaster & Past Master:
C. A. Carroll, Past Master.
Hope ...................... No. 234.... Albert A. Ede, Senior Warden.
Calistcga

Surprise Valley .... No. 235 .... Cluis. H. Hansen, Senior Warden.
Hill's Ferry .......... No. 236 .... Cuy B. Stoyell, Senior Warden;
Chas. F. Berry, Past Master.
Guadalupe

GR,\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PlWCEEDINGS OF THE

.......... No. 237 .... H. S. Campodonico, Rep. & Past Master;
W. T. Lucas, Past Master.

Colusa ................... No. 240.... Ferdinand J. Mendonsa, Senior Warden;
G. P. Ahlf, Past Master.
Santa Ana
..... No. 241.. .. Prince L. Topic. l\Iaster;
E. B. Trago, Inspector and Past Master.
l\Iagnclia .............. No. 242.... Geo. W. McComber, Master.
Eucalyptus ............ No. 243 .... Martin J. Madison, Master & Past Master;
R. A. F. Kolze, Past Master.
Alcatraz ................ l\ o. 244 ... Jacques L. Vandenbos, Master;
Arthur H. Peterson, Senior \Varden;
Carl C. Eien, Junior Warden;
L. T. Corwin, Past Master;
W. G. Davidson, Past Master;
H. A. Meese, Past Master;
J. G. Sjoberg, Past Master;
J. C. Smith, Past Master;
C. H. Sommer, Past Master.
Laurel .................... No. 245 ....Eustace H. Rhodes, Master.
Pomona .................. No. 246.... Albert J. Close, Senior Warden;
W. A. Vandergrift, Insp. and Past Master.
Fresno .................... No. 247.... William J. Harris, Master;
G. E. Church, Past Master.
Alturas .................. No. 248.... William L. Keene, Master.
Landmark .............. No. 253 .... George R. Hurlbut, Master & Past Master.
Reading .................. No. 254 .... Cephus L. Gregg, Junior Warden;
A. F. Souza, Jr., Past Master.
vVelcome ................ No. 255 ... Marcus C. Carter, Master & Past Master;
Walter C. Payne, Junior Warden ;
R. E. Shore, Past Master & Inspector.
Lodi ....................... No. 256.... J oseph K. N'ewfield, Master;
G. W. LeMoin, Past Master;
W. J. Thomayer, Inspector & Past Master.

Evergreen

153

........... No. 259.... Leonard A. Cowles, Master;
H. D. French, Inspector and Past Master.

King Solomon's .... No. 260.... Frank W. Hosmer, Senior Warden;
John F. Campbell, Junior Warden;
E. E. Conn, Past Master;
L. N. Davidson, Past Master;
vV. P. Filmer, Past Master;
F. B. \Vood, Past Master.
Tuscan

.................. No. 261.. .. P. H. N orthley, Rep. and Past l\Iaster.

Lompoc .................. No. 262 .... Frederick A. Brown, Master.
Hesperian .............. No. 264.... 0. F. Paulding, Rep. and Past Master.
Orland .................... No. 265 .... W. Clark, Inspector and Past Master.
Galt ........................ No. 267 .... Bunn B. Smith, Master and Past Master.
Durant

.................. ~o. 268 .. .Isaac D. Bluxome, Master;
George H. Richardson, Senior Warden;
Walter A. Sloan, Junior Warden;
F. M. Berryman, Past Master;
D. Finley, Past Master;
R. Greig, Past Master;
F. H. E. O'Donnell, Past Master;
E. D. Thomas, Inspector & Past ]\faster;
\V. H. Waste, Past Master.

Olive Branch ........ No. 269 ... DeWitt T. Frymire, Senior Warden;
F. A. Ellsworth, Inspector & Past Master.
Snow Mountain .... No. 271.. .. Robert H. Yearnshaw, J.inior Warden.
Anchor .................. No. 273 .... Charles W. Musselman, Master.
Arroyo

.................. No. 274.... Arthur \V. Hawkins, Master.

Selma

.................... N 6. 277 ... William R. Stammers, Master;
J. L. Mitchell, Inspector & Past Master.

So. California ..... No. 278 ... Caleb A. Yarnell, Master;
T. Bosler, Past Master;
W. P. Jeffries, Past Master;
E. B. Spencer, Inspector and Past Master;
D. R. Weller, Past Master.
Hanford .......

..No. 279... Samuel V. Hawley, Master;
J. C. Ensign, Past ]\faster.

Mt. Shasta ........... No. 281....Fred S. Field, Junior Warden;
C. Munter, Past Master.

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Calayomi

.............. No. 282.... Ralph P. Newcomb, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

...... No. 306 .... ~t~.~~o:u:~~' ~sa;:~~;r & Past Master;

Ashlar

South West .......... No. 283 .... Cicero P. Evans, Master & Past :Master.
San Miguel .......... No. 285 .... Charles Forbes, Master & Past Master;.
Herbert H. Durham, Senidr Warden.
Paso Robles .......... No. 286 .... J oseph W. Eddy, Master & Past Master;
William G. Gates, Sen. ·warden & P. lH.
Winnedumah ........ No. 287.... George L. Wells, Master;
L. C. Hall, Inspector and Past Master.

J. B. Hanna, Past Master.
Santa Monica

... :N 0 307 ____ Wirt P. Griffiths, Master.

Monrovia ...... . ... .N" o. 308 .... Howard D. Buttolph, Master.
.... No. 309._... Roswell M. Wilbur, Master & Past Master.
Delano
... No. 310. ... William H. Mcllmoil, Master.
Sisson
l'\ o. 312 ___ .Bcrt A. Wilson, Master;

l\Iaxwell ................ No. 288 ....J. W. Danley, Rep. and Past Master.

Los Banos

Elsinore .................. No. 289.... Adrian B. Barnett, Master.

Tehachapi .............. No. 313 .... J onas Galinger, l\Iaster.

East Gate .............. No. 290.... Robert Vint, Master;
M. H. Flint, Past Master;
F. C. Mulkey, Past Master.

Temescal

Santa Paula .......... No. 291....William ~IcC. Stein, Master.
Orange Grove ...... No. 293 .... Geo. A. Riley, Master. '
Traver .................... No. 294.... Clayton F. Draper, Master;
A. B. Loomis, Past Master.

.....

J. E. Place, Inspector and Past ]\faster.

.............. No. 314.... Marshal E. Clayson, Master.

No 315 .... J. Hay, Representative and Past Master.
Norwalk ................ No. 317 .... 0minus A. Anderson, Junior Warden.
Fallbrook .............. ·
.
N 0 319 .... Huron Y. Gibson, Master;
Hollenbeck ............ ·
p t Master·
J M Dunsmoor, as
'
Sanborn, Inspector and Past Master

W. J.

South Gate

Mt. Jackson .......... No. 295 .... Charles J. Schmelz, Master.
Silver Gate .......... No. 296... _J ohn Francis Covert, Master;
A. R. Jones, Past Master.

155

Alisa!

N 320 .... Rolph W. E. Cole, ]\faster;
····· o.
R. E. Dill, Inspector and Past ]\faster.

.... :............... No. 321....Crawford Letham, Master.

Alhambra

Dunsmuir .............. No. 297 .... Francis C. Nourse, Master & Past Master;
G. A. Hutaff, Inspector and Past Master;
A. Levy, Past Master.

No. 322 .... J am es C. Woods, Master;
J. N. Hall, Past Master.

Whittier

... No. 323 ....L. C. Swain, Representative & Past Master

Mokelunme Hill .. No. 298 .... Claude A. Berry, Master & Past Master.

Corona

Liberty .................. No. 299.... H a mil ton Mc V. Russell, Master;
Charles L. Gruwell, Senior Warden;
H. A. Myers, Past Master.

Consuelo ................ N o. 325 ·--··w. W. Carpenter, Jr., Past .Master.
Needles .................. No. 326 ____ \N". R. Ackerly, Representative.

Redlands

............... No. 300... .J. A. Stone, Representative & Past Master.

Ontario .................. No. 301....William H. Gorbett, Jm~ior Warden.
Santa Lucia .......... No. 302 .... Jorgen C. Falkenberg, Senior Vvarden.
Porterville ............ No. 303 ....John A. Leslie, Master;
R. G. Williams, Past Master.
Reedley .................. No. 304.... David B. Harris; Junior \Varden.
Azusa

.................... No. 305 .... Irving D. Roach, Master.

............ No. 324 .... Dorr G. Chapman, Senior Warden; r
L. L. Test, Inspector and Past Maste ·
..............

Long Beach

.

No 327 .... J ohn C. Farnham, Master;
.
C. H. Shaw, Inspector and Past Master.

N 328 .... Louis B. Heath, Master.
Redondo ................ No. 329 H A.lliot Representative a11d Past Master.
Valle~ de France.. o.
---- · ·
'
•
331 Richard Chivers, Master and Past Master;
Pacific Grove ...... No.
---·
S · '" arden ·
Edward S. Johnston, emor vv <
'
D. B. Fifield, Past Master;
C. K. Johnston, Past Master ;
D. J. Leary.

156

GHAND LODGE: OF CALIFOHNIA

PHOCEEDINGS OF 'l'f1E

San Pedro ........... No. 332 .... E<lmund P. Ingmire, l\1aster.

Sunset

........ No. 352 .... H ugh G. Shang, ~faster;
S. E. Burke, lnspector and Past Master.

Pinole

......... N'o. 353 .... Stephcn Johnston, l'vfaster;
Henry McCullough, Senior Warden;
Edward C. Ebsen, Junior \Varden;
\V. B. l\kKenzie, Past Master.

Alta ...................... No. 333 ... .]. D. l\Iurphey, Past l\Iaster.
Covina

.... No. 334.... \Vells C. Merwin, .i\Iaster;
P. L. Nash. Inspector and Past Master.

West Gate

..... No. 335 .... Alfred T. Kingsbaker, ]\faster;
D. Cave, Inspector and Past Master.

Fruitvale ............... No. 336 .... Henry C. Schwi;rn, Junior \Varden.
Carquincz ··· .......... No. 337.... Jacob E.
Master and Past Master;
\Villiam C. Madden, Senior \Varden;
Chandler H. Smith, Junior \Varden;
A. A. Paul, Past Master;
H. G.
Past Master.

Presidio ............... So. 354.... William J. W eitzenberg, Master;
John B. vVuersching, Senior Warden;
John E. Butterfield, Junior \Varden;
H. Locks, Past Master;
\V. A. Sherman, Inspector and Past Master
Hollywood ........... 'No. 355 .... Charles E. Toberman, Master.
Mill Valley

No. 356.... Horace Coffin, Senior Warden;
C. Folger, Past Master;
T. T. Greaves, Past Master;
F. W. G. Selwood, Past Master;
K. J. C. Seymour. Past Master.

Buena Park

.. N'o. 357 .... Clrnrles L. McComber, Master.

Golden State

.. No. 358 .... Harry E. Betz, lVfaster;
J. H. Bean, Inspector and Past Master.

San Jacinto .......... No. 338. ... Frank Farmt:r, Master.
Fullerton

.............. No. 339.... Charles S. Chapman, Senior Warden.

Oxnard .................. No. 341.. .. Clmrles H.

::\faster & Past Master.

San Fernando ...... No. 343 .. .]. F. Powell. Representative.
Starr

........ "'.'\o. 344 ... Charles 0. Munson, Senior \Varden;
Charles Baer, Junior \Varden;
J. Coodman, Past ]\faster;
H. L. Simon, Past ]\faster:
C. IVL W ollenherg, Past ::\-faster.

Brentwood ............ No. 345 ... Henry \V. Heidorn, Master.
Palo Alto .............. No. 346.... Edward C. Thoits, ]\faster.
McKinley .............. No. 347.... Charles J. Peterson, Master;
Hiram E. Jacobs . Junior \Varden;
\V. E. Rose, Past Master.
San Bernardino .... No. 348. ... Roscoe A. Goodcell, Master;
B. F. Bledsoe, Past Master.
Seqt1oia .................. No. 349 ... Orville B. Caldwell, Master;
Edwin M. Fant. Senior Warden;
James B. \Vood, Junior \Varden;
G. \V. Bacon, Past Master;
]. C. Cole, Past Master ;
F. D. Dolbier, Past Master;
J. W. Gwilt, Past Master;
Chas. Husband, Past Master.
Palestine ............... No. 351.. .. Joseph Stevens, Master;
\V. F. Haas, Past Master.

Ui7

Loyalton ............... .':\o. 359 .... Charks Schie.ff, l\faster and Past ]\faster.
San Francisco ...... No. 360.... Alhert H. Cady. Master;
George R. Bell, Senior \Varden ;
Victor E. Perry, Junior Warden;
H. S. Johnson, Past Master;
J. C. Perry, Past ]\faster;
S. I. Simmons, Past Master.
Fort Bragg ......... .Xo. 361....Jolm E. Weller, Master and Past Master.
Charity .................. No. 362 .... G. Whitney, Rep. and Past Master.
Berkeley ............... l\o. 363 ....Frederick J. R. Dawson, Master;
Hans P. Nelson, Senior \Varden;
Robert P. Arnold, Junior ·warden.
Olivet .................... No. 364.... Harry A. Hunt, Master.
Willits .................... No. 365 .... George Youde, Master.
Las Palmas

..... No. 366.... David l\L Barnwell, Master;
J. C. Pottle, Past )faster.

South Pasadena ... .No. 367.... Harry W. Masac, Master.
Unity ...................... No. 368 .... Richard C. Sternberg, Master;
G. U. Moyse, Past Master.

158

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OJ!' THE

Ocean Park ........ ~No. 369....Thomas H. Hanna, Master.
Amity .................... No. 370.... William E. Wood, Master;
Rudolph F. Lange, Senior \Varden;
Richard II. Thompson, Junior \Varden;
R. Cain, Past ]\faster;
H. C. Klevesahl, Past Master.

Highland Park .... No. 382.... Arthur D. Bond, Master;
F. E. Vincent, Past Master.
Orosi ...................... No. 383.... William l\f. Bcinhorn, Master & l'ast M.

El Centro .............. No. 384....Major S. Cook, Master;
S. J. Ross. Inspector and Past Master.

Oceanic .................. No. 371.. .. T. J. Baker, Representative.

Dinuba .................. No. 385 .... Harry H. Moore, Master;
A.
Past Master.

Gardena ................ No. 372.... Walter Simpson, Master.

Coalinga ................ No. 387.... J oseph B. Wright, Junior Warden.

Veteran .................. No. 373 ....Thomas Price, Master;
C. L. Edinger, Past Master.

Parnassus .............. Ko. 388.... Edward F. Louideck, Master;
Thomas J. Green, Senior \Varden;
Henry L. Todd, Junior Warden.

Jewel ..................... No. 374 ... Burnside Cromwell, Master & Past Master;
Leo Bruck, Senior Warden & Past Master;
Thomas F. Hearn, Junior \Varden;
J. E. Levin, Past Master;
M. E. Levy, Past Master;
]. A. Snell, Past Master.
Richmond

............ No. 375 .... William A. Burdick, Master;
Angus ::\IacKillop, Senior \Varden ;
Joshua J. Harcom, Junior \Varden;
W. E. Bidwell, Past Master;
D. B. Crane, Inspector and Past :\laster;
E. L. Fischer, Past Master;
G. G. Gillespie, Past Master;
C. L. Goetting, Past Master;
L. A. Larsen, Past Master;
C. Munday, Past Master;
L. Sanborn, Past Master.

Francis Drake ...... No. 376.... Ephraim N. Brown, Master;
F. A. Cunningham, Past Master;
F. P. Edwards, Past Master;
G. W. Holston, Past Master;
E. P. Hauffmann, Past :\faster;
G. F. McDonald, Past Master;
J. J. McDonald, Past J\faster.
Artesia

....... No. 377....Walter Donnelly, Master.

Palos Verdes ........ Xo. 389.... Frank C. Blair, Master.
Imperial ................ No. 390.... George E. Heber, Master;
B. H. Cook, Past Master.
East Belt ................ No. 39L..William S. Beeman, Jun. Warden & P. l\L
West Lake ............ No. 392....William T. Osterholt, Master.
Balder .................... No. 393 ....Emil
Master;
Axel A. Lundquist, Senior \Varden;
Frans 0. Sjogren, Junior \>Varden.
University ....... :.... No. 394....Jolm C. Metz, Master.
Turlock ................. .:::\ o. 395 .... Donald McKenzie, Representative.
Apollo .................... No. 396....Percy C. Windham, Master;
Charles B. Greeley, Senior \Varden.
Rising Light ........ No. 397.... Charles H. Bevan, Master;
W. F. Kittle, Past Master.
Fowler ................... No. 398. ... A. J. Smith, Rep. and Past ]\faster.
Fraternity

............ No. 399....Floyd A. Stt111, Master.

Burlingame .......... No. 400....Fred T. Colby, :\faster;
W. ]. Kidd, Past Master.
Bay View ............. No. 40L.Alhert F. Lovsie, Master;
Fred \V. vVetmore, Senior Warden;
T. R. Tilley, Past Master.

::\Iizpah .................. No. 378 .... George R. Harrison, Master.

Brawley ................ No. 402 ... Charles E. Nice, Master.

Fil!more ................ No. 379.... Carl C. Elkins, Jr., Junior Warden.

Yerba Buena ........ No. 403 ...Augustin A. Gifford, Senior \Varden;
Robert G. Arlett, Junior \Varden ;
F. W. LeBallister, Past Master.

Huntington Beach No. 380.... A. W. Griffith, Rep. and Past Master.
Oceanside .............. No. 381.. ..Theodore G. Schultz, Senior Warden.

159

160

PROCEEDINGi:l OF THE

Glendora

.. No. 404 .... L. A. Warren, Rep. and Past l\Iastcr.

GRAND LODGr~ OF CALIFORNIA

Moneta ·-·····--····· ___ No. 405. ___ J ohn F. Haizlip, ]\faster.

Pittsburg ·········---····No. 429....John Lowes, Senior ·warden;
E. H. Ward. Past .Master.

Burbank ................ No. 406....Judge T. Shelton, Master.

McCloud ······-····---··No. 430.... Benjamin A. Purcell, Senior \Varden.

La Mesa ·----···········No. 407.... Harry C. Park, Master.

Alpha -·······---·-·······_No. 431.. .. Thomas Thayer, Master;
Luke ]. Glovinovich, Senior Warden;
Richard E. Slattery. Junior \Varden;
H. A. Stiver, Past l\Taster.

Sierra Madre ...... No. 408 .... Edwin Cook Carhart, Representative.
Honolulu

-·-···-···---.No. 409.... Wm. P. Filmer, Representative.

Charter Rock ...... No. 410.... Albert M. Poulson. Master;
Phillipp Nichlas, Senior Warden;
Ralph W. Myers, Junior Warden;
W. E. Rose, Past Master;
l\f. A. Plumb, Past Master;
E. S. Valentine, Past Master.
..... --····----··--No. 411.. .. William A. Guthridge, Master.

Perris

Calexico ··--·····-·-····No. 412 .... Paul P. Anderson, Master.
Waucoba

·---·····-····No. 413 ....John W. McMurry, Master & Past l\Iaster.

Roseville ·- _____________ No. 432.... Clarence E. Peck, Master;
Kenneth G. Lister_, Senior \Varden.
Hammonton
Maricopa

________ No. 433 .... James H. McGill, l\fastcr and Past :\laster.

·----·-·····--No. 434.... Robt. Clifton \Voodsicle, Representative.

Fairmount

..... l\o. 435 .... James D. Ralph, l\Iaster and Past l\Iaster;
Denman S. Wagstaff, Junior Warden.

Claremont ______________ N9. 436 .... Edward L. Dreher, l\Taster & Past l\faster.
Lancaster ---···-----···No. 437 .... James T. Arwine, Junior Warden.
Germania ··-----··-----No. 438. ___ Franz Wallenstein. Master & Past :\faster.

Arlington ··----·-----.. No. 414.... Angus L. Cavanaugh, Master;
C. P. Lyndall, Past Master.

Tyrian ·---·----

Silver Trowel ...... l\o. 415 ____ Jacob S. Fogel, l\Iastcr.

Coronado

___ U.D. ___ Arthur A. l\Iathewso11, Senior Warden.

Blackmer

_____ U.D .... Charles G. Briggs, Master.

Lindsay -······--····--···No. 416.... Ranson ]. Reed, Master.
Clovis --·-··---··---····--No. 417.... Charles T. Reyburn, Junior Warden.
Elysian ·····--·····-···--No. 418 .... Charles A. Jones, Master;
William T. McNeely, Senior Wardcn.
Upland ·----····---···---No. 419 .... Fred'k C. Froehde, Master.
Kerman

····-····-------No. 420.... David E. Arnold, ]\faster and Past :\Iaster.

Inglewood ·--····---··No. 421.. .. William S. Hudson, ]\faster.
Eagle Rock ···---···---No. 422 ____ Wilbur Miller, Master.
York

. -····-····--····-···No. 423 .... J oseph Lewis, Master;
A. P. Henry, Inspector and Past Master.

Exeter -····-···--····--···l\o. 424.... Thomas C. Newman, Master.
Holtville ... ___ _._________ No. 425 .... Philip W. Brooks, Master.
Midway

__________ No. 426 .... Louis E. Stephens, Junior Warden.

Chino Valley --·---.. No. 427. ___ £lmo C. Daniels, Master.
San Dimas ............ No. 428-... J ohn A. Hansen, Master.

161

______ No. 439 .... Guy F. Dryden, Master.

Carpinteria

__ U.D. ___ Guy S. Bliss. Master.

Wilshire _

... U.D ..... William H. Fisher, Master.

La Puente

____ U_D ____ Wm. R. Hudson, Master.

Torrance

·------ ____________ U.D. ___ Harry A. l\Iarx, Junior \Varden.

Mt. Diablo _________________ U.D ..... Leonard L. :\Iartin, l\Taster.
Park ____________________________ U.D .. ___ £rastus B. Power, Master.
Van Kuys

___________ U.D ..... Joseph ,\. Bailey, ]\faster.

Montebello

______________ U.D ..... James L. l loopcr, Master.

San Pasqual __

.... U.D ..... Ah-in W. Piney, Master.

The report was adopted.

162

l'ROCEEDINGS OF '.l'HE

GHAND LODGE OF CALJFOHNlA

REPORT OF CO:\L\JITTEE O>J CHARTERS.
Brother ]. Claude Perry, Chairman of the Committee
on Charters, presented the following report:

probability of success in their several fields. do now most cheerfully
recommend that Charters he 110\V issued to these Lodges, dz. :
Standard Lodge, at Oakland, Xo. 440.
Coronado Lodge, at Coronado, San Diego County, ~o. 441.
Blackmer Lodge, at San

To the M:. TY.'. Grand Lodge of
Your committee to whom was referred the applications of various
Lodges under dispensation to be granted Charters, beg leave to report
as follows:
The :VI.'. \V.'. Grand :\faster, after due consideration, was pleased
during the past year to grant Dispensations for the formation of thirteen new Lodges,
follows :
Coronado Lodge, at Coronado, San Diego County, Cal., October
22nd, 1913.
Blackmer Lodge, at San Diego, San Diego County, Cal., October
27, 1913.

San Diego County, :7\ o. 442.

Schofield Lodge, at Schofield Barr;icks, Lrililma, H. T .. :\o. 443.
Carpi11tnia Lodge, Carpinteria, Santa Barbara County, No. 444.
Wilshire
at Los Angeles, Los Angeles Connty, No. 445.
La Puente Lodge, at Puente, Los Angeles County, Ko. 446.
Torrance

at Torrance, Los Angeles County, X o. 447.

Mt. Diablo Lodge, at Concord, Contra Costa County, No. 448.
Park

Standard Lodge, at Oakland, Cal., October 3rd, 1913.

Hl3

at San

Cal., No. 449.

Van Nuys Lodge, Van Nuys, Los Angeles County, No. 450.
Montebello Lodge, at :\fontebello. Los Angeles County, No. 451.
San Pasqual Lodge, at Pasadena, Los Angeles County, No. 452.
Respectfully submitted,

Schofield Lodge, at Schofield Barracks, Leilihna, H. T., December
8th, 1913.

J. CLAUDE P1'RRY,

Carpinteria Lodge, at Carpinteria, Santa Barbara County, Cal.,
December 15th.

J. II.

Wilshire Lodge, at Los Angeles, Los Angeles County, Cal., April
6th, 1914.
La Puente Lodge, at Puente, Los Angeles County, Cal., May 2nd,
1914.
Torrance Lodge, at Torrance, Los Angeles County, Cal., May 4th,
1914.
Mt. Diablo Lodge, at Concord, Contra Costa County, ::\fay 21st, 1914.
Park Lodge, at San Francisco, Cal., ::\Jay 27th, 1914.
Van :\' uys Lodge, at Van N uys, Los
1914.

w. R.

J. \i\!fffZJ!NBJ!RG,
r. D. BLUXO~IF.,

N.

Committee.

The report was adopted and charters were ordered to
be issued accordingly.

REPORT OF C0:\11\IITTEE ON BY-LAWS.

Co., Cal., June 2nd,

Monte hello Lodge, at ~I ontebcllo, Los Angeles
gust 4th, 1914.

Cal., An-

San Pasqual Lodge, at Pasadena, Los Angeles County, Cal., August 24th, 1914.
Your committee having examined all the records, books and
documents submitted, and found them to be in proper form with very
few minor exceptions, and having questioned the Masters or representatives of these Lodges as to their financial responsibilities and the

Brother
Ascroft, Chairman of the Committee
on By-Laws, presented the following report:
To tha M:. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By.Laws rcspectfnlly recommend that the
approval of the Most \Vorshipiul Grand :\faster to the amendments of
By-Laws submitted by the following named Lodges be concurred in:
Changing time of meetings:
Plumas No. 60,
No. 84,
RtJssian River No. 181, Oak Grove No. 215, Alturas Xo. 248. Olive
Branch No. 269, East Gate No. 290, Los Banos No. 312, South Gate

164

PROCFJI':DINGS OF THE

GTIAKD LODGE OF CALIFORJ'\J..\

:\o. 320. Oxnard :\o. 341, Fillmore l\o. 379. Highland Park :\o. 382,
l:nin:rsit1· :\o. 394, Arlington l\o. 414, Elysian l\o. 418. Inglewood
:\o. 421,. :'llcCloml :\o. 430, Roseville :\o. 432. Claremont No. 436,
Lancaster l\ o. 437. Germania :\ o. 438, Eucalyptus l\ o. 243.

The Books of Dy-Laws of tile aho\·c named Lodges h:mc been
examined and appro\·ed by your committee.

Increasing dues: Madison '\o. 23. San Diego Xo. 35, Los Angeles
:\o, 42. l\lorning Star :\o. 68. Concord Ko. 117. vVilmington Ko. 198,
.\thens Xo. 228, Guadalupe :\o. 237, Reading :\o. 254, Hcspcrian :\o.
264,
:\o. 313. Whittier l\o. 323, West Cate No. 335, Unity
:'\ o. 368. Francis Drake :\o. 376. Huntington Beach :\ o. 380, El Ccmro
:\o. 384. Coalinga :'\o. 387, East Belt :\o. 391. Ray View I\o. 401.
Sierra l\ladre Xo. 408, Perris Xo. 411. lnglcwood Ko. 421.
Increasing fees: Trinity :\o. 27, St. John's ::'\o. 37, Suis1111 Ko. 55.
Vesper :\o. 184. Howard l\o. 96, Sotoyomc :\o. 123, Petaluma ?\o. 180,
Buckeve :\ o. 195. A thens l\ o. 228, Guadalupe No. 237, Anchor :\ o.
273. S~nh Cate l'\o. 320, Alhambra Ko. 322, Corona l'\o. 324. Vallee de
France l'\o. 329. Olivet !'\o. 364. Huntington Beach Xo. 380. Upland
::\ 0. 419.
Decreasing fees: Clifton No. 119, Evening Star Xo. 186, \Vilmington Xo. 198, Orland No. 265, Mt. Shasta Xo. 281, vVaucoha ::\o. 413.
Decreasing dues:

165

Rcspcctf nlly submitted,

J il!NR\' ASCROFT,

Gr.o. L. W1:u.s,
E. C. BANGS,
Vl. E. wOOD,
CF.o. CARSON,
Committee.

The report was apprcwed as read:

Jlrother E. IL Spencer moYcd that all portions of the
annual report of the Trustees of the :\I asonie JI om es relating to finance be referred immediately to the Committee on
Finance, which motion prevailed.

Chico No. 111.

Fixing affiliation fee:

Hcspcrian Xo. 264, Inglewood Xo. 421.

. \J;olishing afiiliation fee:
Decreasing affiliation fee:
View No. 401.

REP< mT c\S T<) SPECIAL DTSPEXSATIOXS .

San l\fatco Xo. 226.
Doric Xo. 216, Presidio >Jo. 354. Bay

Increasing affiliation fee:. 11 a waiian :'\ o. 21, Chico X o. Ill. Orland !\o. 265, Oceanic Xo. 371, I lonolulu ?\:o. 409.
Providing for life membership:

\Vhittier X o. 323.

Providing amonnt to !Jc charged for each degree:

Berkcky

Xo. 363.
LODGES UNDER DlSPf:NS.\'fJON,

The following named Lodges ttndcr Dispensation ha\'(~ adopted the
Uniform Code of By-Laws, endorsed with the approyaJ of our Most
vVorshipful Grand Master:
Blackmer U. D., San Diego; Standard l'. D., Oakland; Co,ronado
U. D .. Coronado; Schofield U. n .. Schofield Barracks. Lcilihna, T. H.;
\.Vilshirc U. D .. Los Angeles. also amendment to same changing time
of meeting; Torrance U. D., Torrance; La Puente U. D., Puente;
Park U. D., San Francisco; Van Kuys U. D., Van Nuys; Mt. Diahlo
U. D., Concord; San Pasqual U. D., Pasadena; Carpinteria U. D. and.
:\f ontebcllo lJ. D.

Past Grand :\faster Dana I·L I Yeller, from the Committee on J urisprudenee. reported as follows:
To the M.'. IV.'. Grand Lodge of California:
We ha\'c had under consideration the special dispensations issued
by the Cram! l\1 aster during the year. and also his approval of resolutions rclati\'C to life memberships and changing place of meeting,
and we find that all his acts
this regard have hecn in compliance
with the rcqniremems of the Constitution.
vVe recommend that the action of the Grand Master therein be
approycd.

Report was adopted.

PROl'USED Al\IE::\Dl\IE::\TS TO COXSTITCTIOI\.
Brother Edward Joseph Hyman, ]\faster of Sotoyome
Lodge :\ o. 123, offered the following resolution: That Section :\o. 128 of the Constitution be amended to read that

GRAND LODGI<; 01<' CALIFORNIA

166

no Lodge shall charge or collect as its annual clues from
members less than $9.00.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

Brother James \'\'. Anderson presented the iollowing:
To the M. ·. W.". Grand Lodge of California:
Section 189 of the Constitution, page 164, says, "charges may he
preferred hy any }faster }foson in good standing."
A ]\faster Mason in good standing in a Lodge in the jurisdiction of
Oregon, is now a resident in the jurisdiction of California. Can said
Oregon Brother
charges of un-Masonic conduct in a Lodge in
California within whose jurisdiction he resides. against a Brother who
is a member thereof?

167

J'\ o. 159-Starr King Lodge N" o. 344;
No. 164--San Joaquin Lodge No. 19;
No. 167-Charter Rock Lodge J'\o. 410;
respectfully reports that after carefnl examination it linds that in each
of the cases referred to there was at least a substantial compliance
with the Constitt;tion and Regulations; that in those cases where
there was a failure to comply strictly with the law and with the procedure governing trials, the error in no way prejudiced the rights of
the accused.

In none of the cases was any appeal taken and in every instance
substantial justice has been clone. The committee thcref~re offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the verdict and decision in each of the cases herein
referred to, and the action of the Lodge· thereon, he, and the same
hereby are approved and confirmed.
CH,\S. ALBERT ADAMS,

To the above Past Grand ::\faster :\ngellotti reported
that the answer was "Yes."

RANDOLPH V. \VHITJNG,

J. P. BERNHARD,
GEORGE L. JONES,

Committee.

Report adopted.

REPORTS OD' CCHL\IITTEE ON GRIEVANCES.
Drother Charles Albert Adams, Chairman of the Committee on Grievances, presented the following reports:
To the J'vl.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to whom was referred the following trial records,
to wit:
]'\ o. 145-Solano Lodge No. 229;

No. 147-Doric Lodge No. 216;
Xo. 148-0ntario Lodge No. 301;
No. 149-Golden State Lodge No. 358;
No. 150--Hawaiian Lodge No. 21;
No. 151-Crescent Lodge No. 45;
No. 154-Evergrcen Lodge J'\o. 259;
No. 156-Coalinga Lodge No. 387;
No. 157-Sotoyorne Lodge No. 123;
No. 158-Naval Lodge No. 87;

To the M.". W.". Grand. Lodge of Californiw:

Your committee to whom was referred the petition for the restoration of the accused in trial record No.
respectfully reports as
follows:
This is the same petition that was presented and considered at
our communication last year. The report thereon appears at length
011 pages 253 and 254 of the proceedings.
For the reasons therein
given the committee was reluctantly compelled to recommend that the
petition be denied; and that recommendation was adopted by Grand
Lodge.
Except for the fact that another year has elapsed since petitioner
was expelled on a charge of having sold to the brethren of his Lodge
worthless stock by means of false and fraudulent representations, the
condition remains unchangrd. No new facts ha\·c been called to om
~ttention and your committee does not therefore feel justified at this
brne in making any other or different recommendation than that reported last year.

168

GRAND LODGE OF C.ALlFORNI.A

169

\V c therefore offl'r the followin:,; resolution and rccommcml its
adoption:

3. If the answ..:r to the abOl'l' qncstion is in the affirm;itivc should
a new Commission be elected to retry the case?

Rc.wln·d. That the petition of the accused in trial record Ko. 56;,c;,
for rc•stnration to the rights and pri1·ikgcs of :\Ia:.;onry. he and the s;imc
1s hcrchy denied.

4. In such event could the record of the llrst trial, or the evidence
taken by deposition, with or without the consent of the parties, be laid
before. or in any way, used by the new Commission. or must the witnesses appear afresh heforc the Commission, a new cleposition be
taken, and the tirst trial entirely disregarded?

J. P. IlF:HKHA!W,
GEO.

L. JOXE;-;,

To this letter the Grand Seactary replied. stating that after conshlerable thought, the Grand Master was of the opinion th;it the
record should take its regular co11rsc with the Committee on Appeals
and Grievances and he reported at next Crand Lodge. In his letter
he stated tlwt thC' matter was unique in that the Commissioners appeared
to ha\'c been gocd men and :\Iasons, an!l yl'I for reasons that were not
entirely clear. refused lo liml any sort of \Trdict, which refusal of itself
was a :\Jasonic offense nnko;s jmtiticd l:y the conditions; and he .suggested that it might help the Committee 011 Grievances lo find a solution
of the problem if the Commi,csioncrs would file ;i statement.

Committee.

Report of committee adopted and petition for restoration denied.
To the JI ... rv ... Gn111d I,odgc of Califor11ia:
Your committee. lo whom was rderrcd trial n·conl ::\o. 152 of
11 onolulu Lodge Xo. 409. rcspcctfnlly rrports as follows :
The situation presented hy this 1·cconl is unique ;iml so far as we
have hccn ahle to disco\·cr without precedent, except in the principle
in n1 I vc·cl.

It appears t:iat the accused w;1s a nH:tnhcr of Hawaiian Lodge Ko.
21; that charges of a snious natnre were prcicrred against him by
th<' Juni01· \Varden oi that Lodge at the direction of the :\faster, am!
that the case was thereafter lransierrcd for trial to Honolulu Lodge
Xo. 49; that the accuse(] was duly brought to trial in regular form,
and upon tlw evidence licing dosed and the case submitted the Commissioners (as is recited by thC' record) "tberct,pon proceeded to cleliherate and after long and earnc:;t discussion. upon the l\laster calling
for a ballot, the Commissioners nnanimonsly declined to vote, stating
as reasons therefor that in their opinion no substantial effort had hccn
made to present a case bdnre the Commission in support of the specifications nr the charge as indicated hy the attitude of the accuser and
all the evidence achh,ccd. vVhcrcupon the l\fastcr dcclarctl the Com
mission discharged."
The :\faster transmitted the transcript nf the trial to the Grand
Secretary with a request for his opinion upon the action of the Commissioners who. as stated in his kttcr. "were ycry earnest and sincere
in their conception of their dnty." and asked for rulings l'j)(Jll the following points with a 1·icw lo a proper determination of the caS(':

1.

I fas the act inn of the Commissioners resulted in ;i mis-trial?

2. If so, docs the case still remain with I lonolnlu Lodge for trial
npon the original charge, or what other course shonlcl be pursued?

Jt.

In accordance with the sug;;estinn of the Grand Secretary, a supplementary report of the Commission was prepared and transmitted to
the Grand Secretary by the :\faster, who in an accompanying letter,
;issurcd the Crand Secr.:tary that it was only after \'Cry mature deliberation that the Commissioners had refused to render a verdict. and
in so doing- had no tlmught of evading their Masonic duties, bnt acted
in accordance with dictates of their consciences and a high regard for
Masonry.
In view of the circumstances ;ind
in view of the fact
th;it, as staled hy the Grand Secretary, the refusal to find a verdict is,
unless justified, a !vfasonic offense. yonr committee desires at the outset
to say that from the record itself,
well as from the supplementary
report filed with the committee, and also from independent investigations we lrnvc felt justilicd in making. there is 110 doubt of the good
faith and sincerity of the Cm11111issionC'1·s and of their conscientious
belief that ''with dut' consideration to the accucc•d brother, to the
Lodge, aud to the Fraternity. they cmdd not proceed otherwise than as
they did." It seemed to them that. "under all the circumstances attending the prosecution of the case, and the evidence that was submitted
as far as it went, as Cornmi;;sioncrs sitting in judgment thereon, they
did not feel that they c:rnlcl conscientiously pass upon the guilt or
innocence of the accused in the matter."
The case is in some respccts an;ilogous to one considered by
Grand Lodge in 1882 and which is reported in volume XV. of the
proceedings at page 647. In th<~t case only eight of the nine commissioners participated in th: verdict; four of them voted "guilty"

168

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOHNIA

169

\Ye therefore offer the followinJ resolution and recommend its
adoption:

3. Jf the answer to the ahon· question is in the affirmative should
a new Commission be elected to retry the case?

f?csuh•ed, That the petition of the accm<crl in trial rcrnrd Ko. 56;0.
for restoration tri the right,; and pri,·ilege,; of l\fa,;onry, he and the same
is hnehy denied.
CIL\S. ,\.LllERT ADA~·!~.
J P. BE1rnHARn,
CF.o. L. JoNEo,
Committee.

4. Jn such event could the record of the tirst trial, or the evidence
taken by deposition, with or withont the conS('nt of the parties, he hwl
before, or in any way. used by the new Commission. or must the witnesses appear afresh before thl' Commission, a new deposition hC'
taken, and the lirst trial entirely disregarded?
To this letter the Grand Secretary replied, ;;tating that after considerable thought. the Grand l\laster w;is of the opinion that the
record shonld take its regular conrsc with the Committee on Appeals
and Gricrnnccs and he reported at next Grand Lorlge. In his letter
he stated that the matter was nniqnc in that the Commissioners appeared
to have hecn good men and Masons, and yet for reasons that were not
entirely clear. refused to find any sort of \'crdict, which refusal of itself
was a l\Ia:mnic offense nnles,; jm~i'.ied l;y the conditions: and he suggested that it might help the Committee on Crievanccs to find a solution
of the problem if the Comn1is.;ionc'rs wnuld file a statement.

Report of committee adopted and petition for restoration denied.

To Ill< .l/. '. II'.'. C:ra11d Lodge of California:
Your committee', to whom was rderrcd trial n•cord Ko. 152 of
11 onolulu Lodge '.\ o. 409. respectfully reports as follows:
The situation presented hy this record is unique and
far as we
han· been able to di,;c(l\'er without prccc<knt. except in the principle
inniln:d.

Tl appear,; that the accnscd w:t' a mcmhcr of T[:1waiian Lodge Ko.
21; that chargl'S of a sl'riou,; 11atnrc were preferred against him hy
the Jnnior \Varden of that Lorlgc at the direction of the Ma,;tcr, am!
that the c:i,;c \Yao thcreaftc'r tra1hkrrcd for trial to Honolnlu Lodge
::\ o. 49; that the accmcd was duly hrnught to trial in regular form.
and upon the cvi(\ene<: hcing dosed and the case submitted the Commissim1crs (as i,; recited hy the record l "therc1'.po11 proceeded to deliberate and after
am! earnest discussion, npon the l\lastcr calling
for a ballot, the Commissioners unanimously declined to vote, stating
as reasons therefor that in their opinion no sub<;t;mtial effort had !wen
made tn prcsl'nt a case· heforc the Cornmi,;sion in support of the sp,·citicat imL< or the charge as indicatul hy the attitnde of the accuser and
;,J1 the cyi<kncc :iddt!ccrl. \Vhcrcupon the ltfastcr declared the Com
mission discharged."
The ]\faster tr:m,;miltc(l the tramcript of the trial to the <iran<l
Secretary with a request for his opinion upon the action of the Commissioners who, as stated in his lcttL'r. "were very earnest arnl sincere
in tlwir co11ccptio11 of their duty." and asknl fnr rulings l'JlOll the folproper determination of the case:
1. l las ihc action nf the Commissioners rc:-ultcd in a mis trial 0

2. If sn, docs the ca"e still remain with Honoluln Lodge for trial
upon the original chargl', or what other course should he pursued.

Jl

In ;1ccordancc with the sug;i;csticn of the Grand Secretary. a supplementary report of the Commission was prepared and transmitted to
the Cram! Sccrl'tary liy the ]\faster, who in an accompanying letter,
assured the (;rand Secretary that it was only after very mature deliberation tliat the Commissioners had refused to render a n•rdict. and
in so doing had no thot:ght of evading their l\Iasonic duties. but acted
in accordance with dictates of their conscknccs and a high regard for
l\Iasonry.

In view of the circumstances and particnlarly in view of the fact
that, as stated by the Grand Secretary, the iTiusal to find a verdict is,
unless justified, a Masonk offense. your conunittc<: desires at the outset
to say that from the record itself. as well as from the supplementary
report filed with the committee, and also from independent investigations we hayc felt justified in making. there is no doubt of the good
faith and sincerity of the Commissioners and of their conscientious
belief that "with <luc consideration to the accused brother, to the
Lodge. and to the Fraternity. they co11ld not proceed otherwise than as
they did." It seemed to them that, "under all the circumstances attending the prosecution of the case, and the cvidencC' that was submitted
as far as it went, as Commi•;sioners sitting in jtH!grncnt
they
did not feel that they conld conscientiously pass upon the
or
innocence of the accused in th(' matter."
The case is in some respects analogous to one considered by
Grand Lodge in 1882 and which is reported in volume XV. of the
proceedings at page 647. In tlrnt case only eight of the nine commissioners participated in the vcnli.:t; four of them voted "guilty''

170

171

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGJ!: OF CALIFORNIA

and four "not guilty." The Master received this vote as a verdict a111!
at the next meeting of the lodge announced the result, and, declaring
it to be in effect a verdict of acquittal, directed his Secretary to
enter judgment accordingly. From this an appeal was taken by the
?\faster of the Lodge of which the accused \Vas a member, the Junior
\Varden having preferred the charges, and the following questions
were before the Committee on Grievances in their consideration of
the appeal:

it is proper to note that while we are satisfied of the good faith
of the Commissioners and have no doubt that they acted conscientiously in the matter, we can not forbear saying that notwithstanding the apathy of the prosecution of which they complained, there
was sufficient evidence adduced to warrant a verdict of guilty if the
· Commissioners believed the testimony given by the witnesses who
were produced by the prosecution. On the other hand, if after having heard the testimony and observed the demeanor of the wit·
nesscs while testifying, there was reasonable doubt in the minds of
the Commissioners of the guilt of the accused, it was their duty
to give him the benefit of that doubt and to return a verdict of not
guilty. In any event, it was the duty of the Commissioners after
consultation and deliberation to rctu rn a verdict of either "guilty"
or "not guilty" and the Master should have insisted upon a vote being taken by ballot in accordance with the provisions of the constitution.

1st. Charges having been preferred by the Junior \Varden could
the Master of the Lodge take and prosecute an appeal?
2nd. vVas there anv decision bv the Commission
judgment could be based?
.

Oil

which a

3rd. If not, what further proceedings should be had?
Upon the second question the committee was unanimously of
the opinion that there was no verdict or
but was divided
upon the other two questions. The majority was of the opinion that
the appeal was well taken. and hcing thcmseln:s convinced from
their examination of the record that the accused was guilty of the
offense charged, recommended that he b<: suspended by Grand Lodge.
Brother Francis E. Baker, who made a minority report, was of the
opinion that the Junior \Varden was the only party who could appeal,
but that if further proe<'edings \Vere to be had the case should be
remanded to the lodge which tried the case, assigning as a reason
that the accused was entitled to he tried bv a Commission and
that until a verdict by a Commission was rend~red the Grand Lodge
could not have jurisdiction to consider the case upon its merits.
The reports of the Committee on Appeals and Grievances were
not acted upon by Grand Lodge. but were referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence. That committee concurred fully with the majority of the Committee on Appeals and Grie\·ances that the appeal
was well taken; but upon the question of what further proceedings
should be taken agreed with Brother Baker that a trial should be
had and verdict rendered hy a Commission elected from the members of the lodge to which the charges were presented, and that
Grand Lodge had no jurisdiction to consider a case upon its merits
until a trial Commission had rendered a verdict thereon.
The report of the Committee on Jurisprudence was concurred
in by Grand
and that is now the law of this jurisdiction
and has been incorporated into our constitution. Section 208 provides as follows: "Grand Lodge has no power over case until trial
Commission has acted."
ln view of the law of the case by which we are bound, it is
11111wcc·ssary to review the testimony. In this connection, however,

There has, however, been no verdict and the charges are still
pending. The Commission has been discharged; a new Commission
must therefore be elected.
The onlv doul;t is with reference to the fourth question propounded bv -the ::Vfaster: "Can tlie record of the first trial, or the
evidence t;ken by deposition, with or without the consent of the
parties be htid before, or in any way used by, the new Commission?"
At first blush it would seem as though the question. should be
answered in the negative. Among other objections which might he
urged against such a procedure is the fact that the new Commis·
sioners will not be afforded an opportunity of observing the demeanor
of the witnesses while
or the manner in which the testimony is given. In view, however, of the fact that the records and
reporter's transcript of testimony made in courts of the land, properly authenticated, may be received in evidence, there seems to hie
no good reason why testimony taken at a Masonic trial of the accused,
reduced to writing, signed by the witnesses and properly certified
and authenticated. should not he likewise admissible in a rc·trial of
the case upon the original charges, which nmM be deemed to be
still pending.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Rcsuh•cd. That Honolulu Lodge No. 409 he directed to elect
Commissioners to proceed with the trial of Brother of Hawaiian
Lodge No. 21 upon the original charge and specifications, and that
upon the trial either accuser or accused be permitted to introduce

172

PHOCEEDING:S OF THE

GH.\ND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA

in C\·idcnce the properly certified transcript of the record of the first
trial, together with such other or further testimony as is desired
and proper.
Respectfully,

Permanent Endowment fund of ::\Iasonic Homes of California." Such
solicitation of the individual members of this Jurisdiction to he
macle in any manner and by any methods which may he considered
wisest by said Endowment fund Committee. Said plan to he submitted to the :\1. ·. \V. ·. Grand J\Ia~ter for his approval before
adoption.
The following plan has heen suggested, namely: E\·ery l\1ason
of this Jurisdiction to he fully advised as to the intentions and
plans contemplated for the perpetuation of the J\Iasonic Homes of
California, and he he solicited to contribute to the Endowment funJ
through the means of Endowment Life Insurance in some legal reserve Life Insurance Company doing business in California. Su~h
Endowment Policy to lie basecl upon his present a;?;e and issued in
favor of himself. ancl when so issued to be by him assigned to the
Trustees of the vViclows' and Orphans' Homes, he to pay the annual
premium required liy such Company. The proceeds of such Endowment Policies to he collected, at maturity, by the Trustees, it bein~
understood that the term "maturity" means ''in event of prior death
or at completion of ori::;inal contract."

CH,\S. ,.\LBEH'l' A.IL\~!S,
R,\NDOLPH V. \VmTIKG,
]. P. BF.RNIL\Hll,
GEo. L. JoNEs,
Committee.

The report was concurred in.

E:\DO\\':'-IE:\T FL':\D FOR :'-L\SO:\IC THDIES.
Brother James I-I. :'-Iac Lafferty introclucecl the following:
To the Jfost Worshi/'ful Gra11d Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Endowment fund for l\Iasonic Homes of
California, beg leave to submit the following and recommend its
adoption.
Owing to the unfanirahle financial conditions existing during
the past yca1· we considered it wisest to refrain from solicitation of
funds for endowment purposes, Lelieving it best to cider such
action until the financial conditions improve. \Ve h;l\'e not, however, abandoned the idea of creating a permanent endowment fund
for the maintenance and support of those beneficent institutions.
and have had under consideration various plans for the establishment of such fund, which when established, must he of such magnituclc to warrant the perpetuation of our beloved institutions witho11t
the necessity of lc\·ying annually a per capita tax upon the membership. Inasmuch as any plan which may he adopted will eventually
he pro,·ided by the membership of this J uriscliction, we offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption :
\VnEREAs, The necessity of the perpetuation of the J\Iasonic Homes
of California is imperative, and of necessity demancl the continued
financial support 0f this Grand Body, and owing to the financial
conditions prn·ailing, it will he impossible to create any funcl of
large proportion desirable to obviate the necessity of a per capita
tax upon the membership of this Jurisdiction.

Therefore, Tic ft Rcsofrcd: Tlw Committee on Endowment ot
'i\lasonic l fomcs he aml are l1erchy authori%ctl to solicit indi\·idual
.subscriptions for the establishment of a funcl to be known as "The

L

173

This form of creating an Enclowment is a popular one and is
in vogt:e with many institutions throughout the country, a\·oiding
the necessitv of the withdrawal of funds until maturity of contracts.
We res~ectfully request the immediate reference to the Finan-=r
Committee for consideration and report at the earliest possible moment.
Respectfully submittecl,

E. J. V.\LENTINE,
]. H. :\L\CLAFF(RTY,
::\IoTLEY

H. FLINT,
Committee.

Referred to the Committee on Jurispruclence.

CONS'JTlTTlU:\AL Al\lEi\ D:\lENTS.
l'ast Crane! }laster Charles L. Patton, from the Committee on J urispruclence, presented the following- reports:
To the M.·. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on J urisprudcncc submits the following report
as to \·arious matters referred tll it.
The Crand :\Jaster rccommrnds that the matter of physical qualifications of candidates he kft largely to the wise discretion of the
local Lodges and that the law be amcndccl so as to require on!\·

174

GHAND LODGE 01<' CALlFOHN'IA

substantial physical conformity. Your Committee concurs with the
Grand .:\faster in this rcconnncrnlalion and therefore submits the following amendment to onr Ccnstitution and recommends its adoption.
Rrsoh·cd, That Sccticn 94 of the Constitution of the Grand 1,odge
of California be amended hy striking therefrom after the words "able
to conform,'' the word
.'' and by
in lieu thereof
the word
If this anwmlment to the Constitution is adopted it will render
in the ft1t11re Sections 94j and 94k and will accomplish
the object of Ica,·in~ the matter practically in the hands of the
local Lodgrs.

Unanimously adopted.

Your Committee c"ncurs with the Grand Master in his recommendation in relation to the c011d11ct of l\fasonic Funerals and for
the pmp1;sc of
the result dt'sircd offers the following amendment to the Co11stituti('t1 of the Grand Lodge ancl rcco111mc11cls its adoption.
Rcsol«cd, That Sccti<>ll 164 of 1hc Constitution of the Grand

he amended ,:o that the lirst p;1ragraph or sentence thereof
shall read as follows:
"To crn1stitutc hnial with J\lasonie honors the funeral service
authorized hy the Grant! Lodge must be used. The Lodge may
be opened in due form in the Lodge Room or the l\Iaster may call
the mcmben; of his Lmlgc together at the place designated for the
funeral, there put on the proper regalia and conduct the funeral
without the 11cccs,1ity of a formal
of the Lodge, in which
case, the secretary will note in the minutes of the next stated meeting the fact that the funcnil has been conducted
the Lotlge."

Adopted by unanimous vote.

;\ proposition has been submitted to amend Section 73 of the
Constituticn of the Grand Lodge so that not more than twenty-five
".\Taster .:\fasons may join in the petition for a dispensation and so
that a ccrtifica te ,hall be required from a }foskr and an J nspector
instead of from a ".\laster only as is the present law and also re·
fcrring to the other sections of the Constitution by the Section Xmn·
hers instead of
the Articles and Parts oi the Sei;;tions,

175

Your Commitkc is of the opinion that the change is a desirable
one and therefore offers the following amendment to the Constitution of the Grand Lodge and recommends its adoption.

Resoh1cd, That Section 73 of the Constitution be amended to read
as follows:
"73. Dispcnsatio11 for Prcrcqwisitcs. Upon the petition of not less
than twelve nor more than twenty-five Master l\lasons in good standing, accompanied by the dimits or certificates of the signers in the
forms prescribed in Sections 159 and 161, or by evidence that they
are each in good standing,
presented to the Grand Master, in
the form prescribed in Section 235, he may (in cases of manifest
propriety and
grant them a dispensation to open and hold
a 1,odge at the place therein to be named, under such name as
shall be approved by him, which shall not be the name of any living
person or Chartered Lodge, with power to make ::\1asons and receive members by affiliation; and he shall therein appoint the Master
and 'Wardens of the new Lodge. But in no case shall such dispensation be issued unless the petition be accompanied by a recommendation from the nearest or most convenient chartered Lodge (if from
a town or city where more than one Lodge exists, then from a
majority of such Lodges), setting forth in the form prescribed )n
Seetion 237, that the petitioners arc all .:\faster Masons in good
standing, that the establishment of the new 1,odge is of manifest
propriety and will conduce to the good of the Order, and that a
safe and suitable Lodge Room has been provided therefor; nor
unless the petition shall also be accompanied by a certificate from
an Inspector, in the form prescribed in Section 238, declaring that
the Master and Wardens proposed in such petition are fully competent properly to confer the three Degrees of Masonry and to deliver
entire the lectures thereunto appertaining.

Adopted by more than five-sixths of the members
present.
Brother C. H. Wheeler a11d Brother J. C. Falkenberg propo;;e
that Section 135 of the Constitution be amended so as to permit a
Lodge to elect as its secretary any member in good standing of any
Lodge in California.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the duties of the secretary are of such a character as to render it not
proper but
almost indispensable that the secretary should be a member of th<e
Lodge which elects him. 'l'he Committee feels that it would be un-

·------··----~

I~

1

~1

I

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGJ:<~ OF CALIFORNIA

wise for a Lodge to entrust the important duties of its secretary
to anyone not a member thereof, and we therefore recommend that
the proposed amendment he not adopted.

Brother Crcen also proposes to amend Section 150 of the Constitution by requiring the reports to the Grand Lodge as they occur,
of the names of all members gained hy Degrees or affiliation.

The report was adopted and the resolution failed.

The annual reports of the Lodges include all this information, and we think that the proposed amendment would only add
mmcccssary work to the Secretaries and Grand Secretaries. and we
therefore recommend that the proposed amendment he not adopted.

Brother Thomas J. (~recn proposes to amend Section 82 of the
Constitution
that in Lodges having concnrrcnt jurisdiction th'?
minimum fee for the lkgrees shall he $75 and the minimum dues
shall he $9 per year.
Your Committee is of !he opinion that it would not he wise to
raise the minimum fee for the Degrees in Lodges having concurrent
jurisdiction to $75, As the law now stands the minimum fee for
the lkgrecs in Lodges generally is $30 under Section 114 of the
Constitution. and it is only in Lodges having concurrent jurisdiction
that the minimum fee is fixed at $50 unless all the Lodges consent
to a lower fee in the particular Lodge. \Ve do not believe it ncces
sary to raise this minimum fee as the Lodge may charge a higher
fee if it wishes and we think that the present law is sufficient for
all purposes a:; to Lodges having concurrent jurisdiction. We do
not believe it wise to establish a minimum sum for dues in Lodges
having concurrent jurisdiction different from that prescribed by Section 128. which is $6 per annu.m as the smallest amount to be
charged for <lnes. \Ve feel that these matters may safely be left
to the discretion of the Lodges and we see no wisdom in changing
our law in this regard.

177

The report was approved.

1:\DEPENDEXT XATIONAL LODGE OF FRAXCE.
In regard to recognizing the Independent National Grand Lodge
of France referred to in the address oi the Grand Master. your
Committee is not in possession of sufficient data upon which to
make a recommendati011, and therefore asks that the matter be re•fcrrcd to its sncccssors.

F, M. ANGJlLLOTTI,
WM. S, WELLS,
MOTLEY

H. FLIN1',

CHAS.

L. PATTON,

DA'.'i"A

R.

WELLER,

Committee.

The request was granted.

\V c therefore recommend that the proposed amendment be not
adopted.

The recommendation of the committee \Vas concurred
111 and the resolution failed.
Tn this regard Brother Edward Joseph Hyman proposes t0 amend
Section 128 of the Constitution so that the minimum clues shall be $9
in all Lodges. Your Committee feels that many of our
are
getting along nicely and are prosperous while charging less than $9
for dues, and we think that the minimum amount for dues should remain as at present. But we also feel that Lodges should charge
sufficient clues to properly discharge their duties, and that all Lodges
can safely be trusted so to do.
\Ve therefore recommend that the proposed amendment be not
adopted.

The recommendation was concurred in.

The hour for the consideration of the report of the
Trustees of the :\Iasonic Homes having arrived, upon motion of Past Grand Master :\1otley H. Flint, the report,
except as to the matter of a per capita tax for maintenance
(which was in the hands of the Committee on Finance),
was adopted.
Brother George L. Jones, from the CommiHee on
Grievances, submitted the following report:
To the l'v!ost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom was referred trial record ?\ o. 155 ')f
Doric Lodge No. 216, respectfully report as follows:

179

PltOCEEDTNGS OF TJil<,;

GR.'cND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The record in this case clearly shows that the charges were preferred by the Junior \Varden of Doric Lodge "By direction of the
:\faster of said Lodge."

Rcsuh:cd. That the action of San Bernardino Lodge N"o. 348 in
fixing the penalty of reprimand in Trial Record N" o. 161 be, and the
same is herehy reversed, and that the accused is hereby expelled
from all the rights and
of Masonry.

178

It has heen lwl<l that where charges have been so preferred the
:!\faster and the Lodge are disqualified from action and the case should
have been transferred to some other Lodge for trial. (Sec. 189-a
Cnnstitution).
The error hdng fatal. the action of the Lodge shouhl be rc\·crscd.
vVe therefore offer the
rc·solution:

''Rcsah·cd, That the action of Doric Lodge No. 216 in expelling.
the accused in trial record N" o. l
he and the same is herehy reversed
and a new trial ordered therein, such new trial to be had in a Lodge
designated by the :'dost \Vorshipful Grand Master."
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE L. ]ONES,
]. P. BERNHARD,
CHAS, ALBERT ADAMS,

Committee.

c\fter considerable
the report was referred
back to the committee with directions to take testimony and
ascertain if possible whethet the record as presented to
it was correct.

Brother Jones also presented the following report:
To the ltfost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred Trial Record No. 161
of San Bernardino Lodge :No. 348 respectfully reports as follows:
The accused, a member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306, was charged
by the Junior \Varden of that Lodge with unmasonic conduct, and
by order of the M:. \V:. Grand Master the matter was transferred to San Bernardino Lodge No. 348 for trial.
The offense was of such a nature that to simply reprimand
him for the commission thereof would be a reflection upon our
fraternity. Leniency, under such circumstances, is uncalled for, and,
in the
of your
the penalty of expulsion should
have been imposed.

vV c therefore offer the

resolution and recotnmend its

GF.ORG1: L. ]oKF.s,

]. P. BrcRNHARD,
CHAS. ALEF.RT AD.\MS,

Committee.

The report >vas concurred 111 and the Brother ordered
expelled.
To the J!ust 1t 'urs!11'pf11/ c;ra11d Lodg" of California:
Your Committee to whom was referred Trial Record No. 160
of \Vest Lake Lodge X o. 392, respcctfnlly reports as follows:
\Ve note from an examination of the record in this case that
no summons was served upon the accused nor was any showing
made that his a(ldn:ss "·as nnknown. ,\ccording to the record the
Master statl'd to the Lndge and to the Commission at its first meeting, that the accused could not lie present at the im·estigation and
ordered that the trial prncccd np011 the
ex parte. Section
199 of our Constitntion provides that if the address of the accused
be unknown· "the .:\laster shall order the trial to proceed at once
upon the testimony ex parte," from which provision it is evident
that the 11;1stcr is not warranted in ordering the trial to proceed
ex parte simply because the accused cottld not he present. Notwithstanding the fact that one accused of tm :Vlarnnic conduct is confined in a penal institution, he is nc\·erthcless entitled to be served
with summom and a copy of the charges which have been filct!
against him.
\Ve further uotc from the records that the charges were preferred by the Junior \Varden of \Vest Lake Lodge "by direction of
\Vest Lake Lodge .., The case shoulrl therefore have been transfcrrecl
to some other Lodge for trial. (Sec. 189~a
The record alrn shmvs that the specification in the charge consists of a certified copy of a judgment of conviction rendered by
the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles in a criminal proceeding in which the :tccm;cd is dcfrrnlant. Such a specification does
not comply with Section 190 (,f the Constitution which demands
that the spcdticatic11s slut!! ,;ct forth "with clearness arnl precision
the offense or offenses complained of and giving time. place and all
necessary particubrs relating thereto * * *."

In view of these errors a reversal of the action of West l;ake
Lodge is necessary.

180

l'HOCr~EDlNU8 o~-

Tim

UHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

'N c therefore offer tl1c following resolution:
Rcsoh•cd, That the action of \Vest Lake Lodge Xo. 392 in ex·
pclling the accused in Trial Record Xn. JCO. be and the same is
hereby reversed and a new trial ordered therein, such new trial to
be had in a Lo<lgc designated by the }lost Worshipful Crand ,\faster.''

Respectfully submitted.
l.EORGE L. JoNEs.

J. P. BEH:NHM:Jl,
CnAs. :\LlHiRT· i\nA;.1s,
Cnmmiltcc.

The report was adopted.

Brother Joseph Bernhard then presented the follmving
report:
To the :lfost H'ors1zitf11/ Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom was referred Trial Record Xo. 153.
expelled by Southwest Lodge Xo. 283. i\farch 11, 1914, bC'g leave to
report as follows :
The charges were prefc1-rC'd hy the Junior \Varden hy direction
of the Lodge.
Hy this action the Lodge disquali:1ed itself from
trying the charges under Section 189·a of our Constitution.
The only evidence introduced at the trial was a letter written
to the Lodge liy a Master 1\fason long before the charges were even
filed; which was not proper evidence.
Rrsoh·rd. That the action of Southwc,;t Lodge. Xo. 283 in Trial
Record .t\o. 153 be and the same is hereby reversed and a new trial
ordered; that the charges he presented to the Crand l\Iaster. who
will designate the Lodge in which the new trial shall he held. .

Respectfully submitted,

J. P. BEHNHARll,
CnmG1' L. jnNI's,
Committee.

The recommendation was concurred m.
Charles Albert Adams, Chairman of the Com 111 iacc
on Crieyances. reported as follows.:
To th,· .1fosl 1J 'orshif'li:-1 Grand Lodgr:

Your Committ<·e lo whom was referred Trial Reeunl :\ ll. 166
respectfully reports as follows:

181

This is an apprnl taken hy the accuser from a verdict of acquittal
by tmanimous vote.
The main ground of the appeal is a claim of bias and prejudice
upon the pa rt cf !he Commissioners. ::\ o evidence has hccn presented in support of th;it claim but it is contended, and we believe
conscicntiomly :,o, that hias and prejudice on the part of the Com·
missioners 'hould he (kduccd from certain circumstances which hav.:
been called to our attention.
The statement is made hy the accuser, and is freely and frankly
admitted hy the :\laster of the Lodge, that at the meeting at which
the Conm1issioncr,.; were elected there was circulated a list containing the names of cPrtain memhers who were sttbscquently elected
to serve as Commissioners. The explanation made hy the ]\faster i>
that the only puq1cse of such a fot was to avoid the necessity of a
numher of ballots heing take11 bdore a sufficient number would re·
ccive a majority vote. as is frequently the case where the membership is large and the members arc not initmatcly acquainted with
each other, as in the smaller Lodges: that there was no member
elected who was in the slightest degree prcj udiced or biased, either
in favor of, or against, either accuser or accused; that as a matter
of fact the accused was absolutely unknown to every member of the
Commission, and as the Master believes, unknown to every member
of the Lodge e;xccpt the member who proposed him (the accuse(\
being at the time of his trial a frllowcraft). while the a.censer, act·
ing for a brother of another jurisdiction, is an old Past Master,
loved and respected hy the entire Lodge: that further (and this
likewise appears hy the record) at the time the Commission was
assembled, in response to the l\Iaster's inquiry, both the accuser and
accused expressed thcmseh·es as satislicd with the Commission.

In the opinion of your Committee the matter thus complained
of is fully and satisfactorily explained. At the same time such a
procedure is not one which your Committee feels warranted in unreservedly cmlor:-ing. i\s will. of course, he readily seen, it savors
somewhat of practices which have been uni\'crsally condemned by
Grand Lo<lge. lt is. however, in this case only fair and just to
those affected to .say that there is no member of your Committee who
has even a suspicion that in this instance the purpose was any other
than that nated hy the l\faster.
The ody ether matter from which it is claimed prejudice shonld
be deduced which the Committee 1.kems oi sufficient importance to
consider is this: .-\ ftcr the accuser had presented his case and the
testimony d the witm's,es for the accused had hcen taken, the accuser
desired to present further testimony. hut the Commission dcclinc.J
to hear the testimony. Assuming that the witness whom accuser de·

182

PROCJ:<J.B~DJNGS

OF THE

sired to examine would testify as the Committee is informed she
would (which the accused denies) in anv event, while the testimony
would not perhaps have been immaterial or inadmissible, it was i;1
its nature cumulative. Tcstirncny of the same natere had already
been presented to the Commissioners and we are not disposed to say
that there was any ahuse of the discretion vested in them. Under
our law the Commissioners arc the sole judges of the facts proven
and shall decide what and how much testimonv shall be heard

(Sec. 2021.

183

GlL'cND LODGE 01•' CALIFOil.NlA

'

\Ve belieye that the policy of this Grand Lodge should be to
uphold the verdict of the Commission unless there has been an evident miscarriage of justice. The Commissioners are afforded an
opportunity of observing the demeanor of the witnesses while testifying and are, in the judgment of your Committee, better able to
determine upon their credibility than are those who, in reviewing
the case, must" depend upon the record as it is presented to them;
and in our judgment in the vast majority of cases the Commissioners
are as desirous of preserving the good name of the Fraternity as arc
those who review their proceedings. Furthermore, this Grand Lodge
has held that whatever may be properly done in a case of conviction
by way of
or modifying a sentence, a judgment of acquittal
by the subordinate Lodge of which the accused is a member shouhl
not be reversed or diMurhcd by the Committee on Grievances, or by
the Grand Lodge, except in a case of gross \'iolation of Ivfasonic
law by tho Trial Commission, or by the Lodge acquitting him. (Vol.
XVI., page 229).
,
Even though your Committee, if sitting as Commissioners, might
have rendered a diffcn:nt verdict
would not feel justified "in
n·commending a reversal. As a matter of fact, however. YOJ.lr Committee, after a very careful consideration of all the testimonv, is
unanimously of the opinion that no other or different verdict sl;onld
have been rendered.

Past (;rand .Master ':\lotley H. Flint, of the Committee
on Jurisprudence, ,jeported back the 2\1acLafferty resolution relating to the matter of financing the Endowment
Fund of the ).fasonic Home, as follows:
To the Jiost FVorshipful Grand Lodge of California:
W c have examined thi~ repart and find that it presents no question involving the construction of J\lasonic law or usage, but .it may
involve the expenditure of the fonds of the Grand Lodge rn pr~­
paring the necessary printed malter for circulation among the Lodges;
and we therefore recommend that the report be referred to the
Finance Committee.
Respectfully submitted,

F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
WM.

s. WELLS,

MoTLEY

H.

FLINT,

CHAS.

L. p A'I'TON,

DANA

R. WELLER,
Committee.

The recommendation was not adopted and the original
resolution was referred to the incoming Committee on Endmvment by ·a unanimous vote.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock
this afternoon.

\V c therefore offer the following resolution and rceo111111end its
adnption :

Rcsolc·cd. Tbat the Ycnlict and decision of the Co111missioncrs and
the action of the
thereon in Trial Rcconl Nci. 166 be and the
same is hereby approved anci confirmc(L
CHAS.

GEORG!;

. \ ppnwed by um111i mous yote.

A. ADAMS,
J,. JoN!l:O

Afternoon Session.
Wednesday, October 14, 1914.
The Gran/Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
This beinrr the hour aifixed for the annual oration, W.' .
Brother \Villfam H. \Vaste delivered an address which
appealed to the Brethren as coming direct from the heart;

184

185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHU.ND LODGf; OF CALIFORNIA

an addr:ss whicl: \vas not only entertaining but educational
and wlnch was listened to with pleasure by the large number of ~epresentatives present. The text of the address
was as tallows:

As I look back over the year I remember that all I had spoken
had J;cen merely messages suggested hy the time and place and spoken
from the heart. I prayed, and prayed earnestly, brethren, to the Great
Author of our Being that in this hour I might be given wisdom to
direct me in bringing to you a message that would in some slight
degree repay you for your
and courtesy, and that in some
measure would prove worthy of the occasion. But my thoughts came
sluggishly, my pencil seemed weighted with iron and my written
notes took shape with but a snail's pacf. A ready tongue seemed my
last possession, and cloqttcnce fled-whither I know not, but it seemed
to me, never to return. As I listened on yesterday with you to the
address of the :\fost \Vorshipfnl Past Grand ]\faster of Illinois, and
noted how the simple words of that venerable man went directly to your
hearts, all I had planned to say upon this occasion became as "sounding
brass and tinkling cymbals." My pr<:ccnceived ideas of an oration to
be delivered upon this occasion. went fluttering out of the window like
the notes of his maiden speech, never to come back.
And so, l'l1 ost W orshipfol Grand Master and Brethren, I bring
to you today, only a simple message from the heart, a heart to heart
talk, from one who !oYCs them, to men he knows love him.
Another year in our earthly existence has gone. This annual
Communication of men in earnest plan and rndeavor assembled to
take stock of our material advancement will soon be over. The stewardship of the present Grand Officers must be delivered to others.
It is necessary to conserve the brick and stone of our earthly tcmple3;
our material advancemt"nt mmt be carefully marked and all our energies must be properly directed in order that we may the better carry
forward the work that we !Jaye to do. \Ve must plan, we must build.
Some must lead and some must follow in that work. The
7i_ation of our visible and physical institution must not be neglected. But
before we part I want to talk of that other temple, not made of brick,
or mortar, or wood, or steel. or stone, hut built and enshrined in the
human heart. It is my sincere desire to impress upon you if I can
what to my mind is the greatest aim and object of Free Masonry.
Let us call Masonry what we may. Call it a philosophy, and there
are other philosophies like it. Call it a science, and other sciences
duplicate it. Call it a religion and it will measure well up to the
standard. But it is an answering call to the cry of the human heart
that 1\fasonry rises sublime, and it is of that attribute of the order
that l wo11ld speak.
Every petitioner for the degrees, before he was permitted to
knock at the door of Free :\Iasonry, was required to sign in his own
true hand a petition, wherein he "represented
unbiased by friends

ORATION"

Most fVorship(ul Grand .Vaster, and Brcthrrn of tlic Grand Lodge:

~o dignify my remarks upon this occasion as an "oration," is to
':lo v10Ien~e to th.c English language. I would not dare to pit my
iceble powers agamst the matchless eloquence of the rnanv illustrious
Grand Orators'. who, in the past, have delighted and enthralled the
rmembers
. . of this Grand Body. \Vith a full knowledge of nlv. ow.1•
n;11tat1011s and shortcomings, I approach with trepidation th~ task
laid upon me. a yea.r ago, as one of the first official ac!;s of my courteous and lovmg fneml. the splendid man, who, during the interim
has been our beloved :\Iost \Vorshipful Grand :\faster.
'
It i: t.~e duty of the Grand Orator to deliver, at each annual
c.o·m·mumcarion, an .address to the Grand Lodge upon matters appert<Lmmg to the Craft. Agreeable to that requirement and with cl
r •g· 1 t
.
~ an
o_ your patience
. amI courtesy, it had been my purpose uc
to
discuss
with
you
tenclcnc1cs
amona
the member-a of
ottr O !·d er me
· l.i'
•
"'
.
catmg,. to n:y mmd, '_l want of understanding of the deep significance
of some 01 the ancient landmarb of the Craft. In doing so let
me. n_1ake 1t clear, my brethren, I had intended to aim no darts of
cnt1c1:;111
· genr . or complaint at any person or persons
. ' but to dea l 111
era 1t1cs, and to sp_cak only out of the store of our common experirnces and obscrvat1011s. But all this I have changed.

It was. my. pleasure to accompany our present Grand Master on
many of l11S v1s1tat1011s to the Craft throughout the jurisdiction. It
:vas a. most ple~stm.·~ble experience. \Ve met many of our brethren
111 their homes, m their social gatherings and in the Lodge room.
.
. many oi these o~casions I ender1vored to measure up to
the rc;qmrernents of my pos1t1011 by speaking upon topics relating to the
tcachmgs of the Craft. I was given most courteous attention and
my
were good enotwh
· manv instances
·
. brethren
.
,-, to say·
, tl1at I had
, m
furmshed ~hem .food for thought. As I met these same bretl1rcn, man~.
oi_ them, 111 tl11s annual Communication, they gripped my hand an;l
wishe;I me well, and were good enough to recall with expressions
of evident pl~asure our meetings throughout the year. Thev embar
rassed me with spoken anticipations of this hour. In dee; thought
I wondered why.

,
186

PHOCJ~EDINGS

OF TEL•~

and uninfluenced by . mercenary motives he freely and voluntarily
offered himself as a candidate for the mysteries of Masonry; that he
was prompted to solicit this privilege by a favorable opinion conceived of the institution, a desire for knowledge, and a sincere wish
to be serviceable to his fellow creatures." That is a wonderful declaration-a fundamental statement of a great faith in an institution. Has,
to you and me, that faith been realized? For a personal answer to
that question I go back forty years and more in my own experience.
As I do so I feel sure that many of you will travel with me ova
forgotten roads of memory and that you will wander in bypaths of
forgotten experiences, and that possibly you, like myself, will find
a sufficient answer to the question.
::\fy first impressions of Free Masonry were indeed boyish but
have been lasting. They were received when, as a mere lad my father
held me by the hand, at the funeral of one dear to my family; a man of
standing and influence in the community. One of the then Grand
Wardens of this Body, a dear and intimate friend of him who had
gone, by special request, had come from his distant home to conduct
the funeral ceremonies according to the ritual of the order. He acted
as the Master of the Lodge upon that occasion and his presence there
created comment, for even then, although young in years, he was
being honored by the people of the State. He was my father's friend
and I looked up to him as being a great man.
The village preacher was there, acting as chaplain of the Lodge:
"A man he was to all the country dear."
Often did I hear him in his strong denunciation of sin and the
sinner; as often did I shudder at his portrayal of an angry God;
but more often did I run at his kindly call to have him lay his hand
upon my head and out of the kindness of his great loving heart talk to
me as one boy to another. He was loved in the community, for he
never turned aside from the call of distress. Where sickness was, he
was there:
"Beside the bed where parting life was laid,
And sorrow, guilt, and pain, by turns dismay'cl,
The loving champion stood."
The village schoolmaster was there. He wore his white apron,
the badge of a l\faster Mason, with the same simplicity with which
he went about his daily task. He, too, was love cl and revered in that
community ancl of him it might be said as Goldsmith sang, of that
other schoolmaster of the deserted village:
"And still they gazed and still the wonder grew
That one small head could carry all he knew."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

The Judge from the neighboring county seat was also there, a
man of probity and uprightness; and though stern, recognized as just.
The strong men of the county grouped around that humble abode-the
men who were the backbone am! sinew of the community. The Holy
Bible was borne forth by the eldest member of the Lodge, and as
it passed supported hy the Deacons with their rods, a hush seemed to
fall on the place. 1t was a tribute, to my boyish mind, to the word of
Goel. Those early impressions remained with me as I grew into manhood. I had a simple faith in, coupled perhaps with a youthful curiosity to learn more of, this to me, mysterious order.
I became a man; I kno~ked and the door of Free Masonry was
opened unto me. Within the Lodge I met men who called me
"Brother.'' I felt that my boyish ambitions were about to be realized;
that my dreams were al1out to come true. As a novitiate I received
instruction. I learned that the three principal tenets of Masonry are
Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth. I saw men reverently bow their
heads and invoke the blessing of God that He would so influence their
hearts and minds that they might practise out of the Lodge those
great moral duties inculcated in it. In the outer world I saw Masons
in high places in political and official lifd, administering the affairs
of the State and Nation, with honor and uprightness. I saw justice
tempered with mercy and guided hy "that standard, or boundary of
right which enables ns to render unto every man his just clue, without
distinction." I .saw the man of Goel soften his dogmatic creeds with
the doctrine of universal love. I saw men leading little children tenderly along the pathways that lead to truth, and fighting valiantly for
the rights of childhood. I saw my brethren occupying positions of
honor, integrity and trust, and everywhere regarding the volume of
the Sacred Law as the great light of their profession-considering it
as the unerring standard of truth and justice, and regulating their
actions by the divine precepts it contains.
When I was Master of my Lodge there came to us, to lay the
cornerstone of a public building, a beloved Grand Master of this
jurisdiction. He performed the impressive ceremonies of the occasion with dignity. Later at a gathering in his honor, standing upright
in our midst he made an appeal to his Brethren of the Craft to be
men. It was a strong cry, uttered from the heart of a strong man. It
made a deep and lastin[ impression upon the throng of Masons there
assembled. Standing in the full height of his physical manhood and
with a voice like that of a prophet calling to his children to follow
him, he closed with the beautiful words of Doctor Holland:

188

PHOCE:EDINGS OF TH le

"God give ns men! A time like this demands
Strong minds, great hearts, tn·e faith and ready hands;
Men whom the Inst of office does not kill;
Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy;
J\Ien who possess opinions and a will;
:\Ten who have honor,-mcn who will not lie;
:\Ten who can stand before a clcmagogne,
/\.11(\ damn his treacherous flattering without winking!
Tall men, snn crowned, who live al1ove the fog
In public duty, and in private thinking:
For while the rabble, with their thumb-worn creeds,
Their large professions and their little deeds,
Mingle in selfish strife, lo! Freedom weeps,
vV rang rules the land, and waiting j us ti cc sleeps !"
In his annual address at this Commnnication, onr Most Worshipful
Grand Master has allnclccl with deep feeling to the personnel of onr
Craft in this jurisdiction. He has dwelt at length upon the· calibre
of the men who comprise the membership of our order in this state.
I know that he is justified in his high estimate of these men. As we
journeyed together throughout the length of the jurisdiction, as we
met these men, as we lookccl into their faces around the festal board,
or rcposccl in their homes as their honorcfl gn<:sts or met them in
their cnstomary fields of bnsincss activity, an observing mind couH
not but be impressed to the same degree that our Grand Master was,
and I assert that the rank and file of the Masons in this state measure
up to the cry of the poet, so beautifully expressed in the words quoted
by the Grand Master, now deceased, "Goel give us men!"

It is not in the material achievements of our Order that the
greatest results of its teachings are to be found. Our success rests
not in stately edifices of brick, and mortar, and wood, and steel, and
stone, hut in influence on the minds and hearts of men. The g4eatest
monuments to the success of the institution arc to he found in the
work carried on by it in furtherance of that "sincere wish to be serviceable to his fellow creatures" expressed in the petition of each Master
Mason. Service of the distressed worthy Brother, the protection and
care of his widow and orphan, the good counsel whispered in his ear,
the admonition of his errors, the efforts for his reformation, and the
inspiration of his soul to better things and to immortality-these are
the greatest of its achievements. This may be expressed far more
beautifully than I, in my own language, might tell it, in a little story
by Professor I-I enry Van Dyke, which I have a number of times during
the year used to illustrate this point. I had not intended to repeat it

GHAND LODGC: OF CALIFOHNIA

189

here, hut, at the request of a number of the brethren, and with
apologies for its repetition, I will again tell it.
It is "The Story of the Other \Vise Man," Artiban, the Median,
who in the clays when Augustus Caesar was master of many kings,
and Herod reigned in Jerusalem, dwelt in the City of Ecbatana. in a
heantifd garden watered by the streams descending from the slopes
of l\lt. Orantes. and made mnsical by innumerable birds. He was one
of the ancient priesthood of the l\I;.gi. called the "Fire Worshipers."
Tt had been revealed to him and to his three companions, Caspar,
Melchior and Balthasar, in the ancient tablets of the Chalclees, thJt
a new star would appear, whicl1 would herald the birth of one who
should he born of the King of Israel, one who should point the way to
all Truth.
...
Artaban sold his house and his possessions and bought three
jewels to carry them as a tribute to the King. Thev were wonderful
gerns-"one blue as a fragment of the night sky, o~e redder than a
ray of sunrise, and one as pure as the peak of a snow mountain at
twilight."
vVhile Artaban watched in his home for the coming of the stars.
his three companions were watching at the ancient temple of the
Seven Spheres in BaLylonia. Artahan called many of his friends together and showed them his precious gems, told them of the coming
of the star, and asked them to accompany him. !mt one and all, thev
turned aside am\ Artaban was left in solitude. As he watched "fa.r
over the eastern plain a white mist stretched like a lake. But where the
distant peak of Zagros serrated the western horizon the sky was clear.
Jupiter and Saturn rolled together like drops of lambent flame about
to blend in one. Artaban bowed his head. He covered his brow with
his hands. 'It is the sign,' he said. 'The King is coming, and I will
go to meet him.' "
All night long he rode westward on Vascla, the swiftest of his
horses. · Day by clay, for ten clays he rode wisely and well that he
might keep the appointed hour with the other Magi. On the evening
of the last clay his horse was almost spent and he would gladly have
turned into the city to find rest and refreshment for himself ;,nd for
her, but he knew it was three hours' journey yet to the Temple of the
Seven Spheres, and he must reach the place by midnight if he would
find his comrades waiting. So he did not halt, but rode steadily across
the stubblefields. A grove of date palms made an island of gloom in
the pale yellow sea. As she passed into the shadow Vascla slackened
her pace, and began to pick her way more carefully. * * * At last
she gave a quick breath of anxiety and dismay, and stood stock-still
quivering in every muscle, before a dark object in the shadow of th~
last palm tree.

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRJ1.ND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

J\rtaban dismounted. The dim starlight revealed before him the
form of a man lying across the road; a poor Hebrew exile apparently
dying of the deadly fever which ravished the marsh lands in autumn.
Artaban thought him dead, but a long faint sigh came from the man's
lips and his brown bony fingers closed convulsively on the hem of the
J\lagian's robe and helcl him fast. J\rtaban's heart was troubled. He
could not stay to minister to tl1e dying stranger, for it would keep
him beyond the hour when he shoulcl meet his companions. Th·cy
wonld go without him. Bnt if he went on now the man would surely
clie. If he stayed, life might be restored. He turned back to the sick
man, carried him to the foot of a palm tree, brought water for him and
moistened the sufferer's brow and lips.
He mixed a clraught of
one of those simple and potent remedies which he always carried in
his girdle, and pourccl it between the colorless lips. Hour by hour he
labored nntil the man's strength returned. As Artaban departed, the
Jew raised his trembling hand solemnly to Heaven and said: "Now
may the Goel of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob bless and prosper the
j onrney of the merciful, and bring him in peace to his desired haven."

of his brethren and to what house the star had directed them, he could
find but little. "The streets of the village seemed to be desertecl. From
the open door of a low stone cottage lie hearcl the sound of a woman's
voice sin£ing softly. He entered an cl found a young mother hushing
her baby to rest. She told him of the strangers from the East, who
had appeared in the village three days before, and how they said that
a star had gui<lccl them to the place where Joseph of Nazareth was
lodging with his wife and her new born child, ancl how they had paid
reverence to the chilcl ancl had gfren him many rich gifts." But the
travelers, she told him, had clisappearecl as suddenly as they came,
and it was whispered that Joseph had taken the baby and his mother
and fled into Egypt.
As Artaban listened to her timid speech the child in her arms
looked up in his face and smilccl~strctching out its rosy hands to
grasp at the winge<l circle of gold on his breast. His heart warmed
to the touch of the little one. The young mother laicl the baby in· its
cradle where it fell asleep, and set before the strange guest that fate had
brought into her house, the plain fare of peasants, but willingly offered,
and therefore full of refreshment for the son! as well as for the body

l!JI)

It was already long past midnight and Artaban rode in haste; but
the first beam of the sun sent his shadow before him as he rode,
scanning the great mound of ::\imrod in the Temple of the Seven
Spheres. As he frarecl, his friends had gone. At the edge of the
terrace he saw a little cairn of broken bricks, and nnder them a piece
of parchment. IIc canght it np ancl reacl: "\Ve have waitecl past the
miclnight, an cl can <!clay no longer. \Ve go to Jincl the King. Follow
us across the clesert."
Artaban sat down upon the grouncl and covered his head in
despair.
"How can I cross the clesert," saicl he, "with no food and with a
spent horse? I mnst return to Babylon, sell my sapphire, and buy a
train of camels. an cl provision for the journey. I may never overtake
my friencls. Only God the merciful knows whether I shall not lose
the sight of the King because I tarriecl to show mercy."
Artaban macle clue preparation and followed the other wise men
over the clreary undulations of the desert, high up upon the back of
his camel, rocking steaclily onwarcl like a ship over the waves. He
searchecl the gardens and orchards of Damascus, the snowy ridge of
Hermon, the dark groves of cedars in the valleys of the Jordan, and
liy the blue waters of the Lake of Galilee, moving steaclily onward
until he arrived at Bethleham. It was the thircl clay after three wise
men had come to that place, an cl had found Mary and Joseph with
the young child Jes us, an cl hacl laid their gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh at his feet. But inquire as he would about the visit

Suddenly there came the noise of a wild confusion, and uproar 011
the streets of the village, a shrieking and wailing of women's voices,
a clangor of "brazen trumpets and a clashing of swords, and a desperak
cry: "Tll solcliers ! The soldiers of Herod! They are killing oul'
children." The .young mother's face grew white with terror. She
clasped her child to her bosom. and crouched motionless in the darkest
corner of the room, co,·ering him with the folds of her robe, lest he
should wake and cry.
"But Artaban went quickly ancl stood in the doorway of the house.
His broad shoulders filled the portal from side to side, ancl the peak
of his white cap all bnt touched the lintel.
"The solclicrs came hurrying clown the st re et with bloody hanc.15
and drip"ping swords. At the sight of the stranger in his imposing
dress they hesitated with surprise. The captain of the hand approached
the threshold to thrm,t him aside. But Artaban clicl not stir. His
face was as calm as though he were watching the stars, and in his
eyes there burnecl that steady radiance before which even the halftamed hunting leopard shrinks, and the fierce blooclhound pau.;es in
his leap. He held the soldier silently for ;in instant, and then said
in a low voice: 'I ;im all alone in this place, and I am waiting to
give this jewel to the prudent captain who will leave me in peace.'
He showed the ruby, glistening in the hollow of his hand like a great
drop of blood."

192

PHOCEEDING~

OF THJC

The captain was amazed at the splendor of the gem. The pup;ls of
his eyes expanded with desire and the hard lines of greed wrinkled
around his lips. He stretched out his hand and took the ruby. "l\farch
on !" he cried to his men, "there is no child here. The house is still."
The soldiers passed llown the street and Artaban re-entered the
cottage. In dismay he bowed his head and cried out: "Goel of lruth,
forgive my sin! I have said the thing that is not, to save the Ii f.~ of
a child. And two of my gifts arc gone. I have spent for man that
which was meant for Goel. Shall I ever be worthy to see the face of
the King?" But the voice of the woman weeping for joy in t!1e
shadow behind him, said very gently: "Because thou hast saved the
life of my little one. may the Lord bless thee and keep thee; the L<;rc\
make his face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee; the
Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace." And
Artaban was comforted.
He continued his search for the King, passing "through countries
where famine lay heavy upon the land, and the poor were crying for
bread. He made his dwelling in plague-stricken cities where the sick
were languishing in the bitter companionship of helpless misery. He
visited the oppressed and the afflicted in the gloom of subterranean
prisons, and the crowded wretchedness of slave markets, and the
weary toil of galley-ships. In all this populous and intricate world
of anguish, though he found none to worship, he found many to help
He fed the hungry, and clothed the naked, and healed the sick, and
comforted the captive; and his years went by more swiftly• than the
weaver's shuttle that flashes hack and forth through the loom while the
web grows and the invisible pattern is completed.
"Three-and-thirty years of the life of Artaban had passed away,
and he was still a pilgrim and a seeker after light. His hair once
darker than the cliffs of Zagros. was now white as the wintry snow
that covered them. His eyes, that once flashed like flames of fir~,
were dull as cmhrs smouldering among the ashes.
"Worn and weary and ready to die, hut still looking for the King,
he had come for the last time to Jerusalem. He had often visite,J
the Holy City before, and had searched through all its lanes and
crowded hovels and black prisons without finding any trace of the
family of ~azarenes who had fled from Bethlehem long ago. But now
it seemed as if he must make one more effort, and something whispered
in his heart that. at last, he might succcccl. Tt was the season of the
Passover. The city was thronged with strangers and there hall been
a confosion of tongues in the narrow streets for many clays. There
was a singular agitation Yisiblc in the multitude on this clay. The sky
was veiled with gloom and currents of excitement seemed to flash

L

GRAND LODG.~J OF CALIFORNIA

193

through the crowd like the thrill which shakes the forest on the eve
of a storm. The people were moving one way, their bare feet shuffling over the stones unceasingly along the street that leads to the
Damascus gate. Artaban joined company with a group of people from
his own country and inq uirecl of them the cause of the tumult. 'We
are going,' they answered. 'to the place of Golgotha, outside the city
walls, where there is to be an execution-two famous robbers are to
be crucified, and with them another called Jesus of Nazareth, a man
who has done many wonderful works among the people so that they
love him greatly. But the priests and elders have said that he must
die .because he gave himself out to be the Son of God. And Pilate
has sent him to the cross because he has said that he was the "King
of the Jews.'"
"Artaban's heart beat unsteaclilv. for a life time over land and
sea he had been seeking this Kin~. Could it be the same who had
been born in Bethlehem thirty-three years ago, and of whose coming the prophets ha<l spoken? He said within himself: 'The ways
of God are stranger than the thoughts of men, and it may be that
I shall find the King, at last, in the hands of His enemies, and
shall come in time to offer my pearl for His ransom before He dies.'
So he followed the multitude with slow and painful steps toward
the Damascus gate of the city. "A troop of Macedonian soldiers
came clown the. street, dragging a young girl with torn dress and clishevelecl hair. As the Magian paused to look at her with compassion,
she broke suddenly from the hands of her tormentors, and threw herself at his feet, clasping him around the knees. She had seen his
white cap and the winged circle on his breast.
"'Have pity on me,' she cried, 'and save me, for the sake of the
?od of Purity! I also am a daughter of the true religion which
ts t.aught by the Magi. My father was a merchant of Parthia, hut
he ts dead, and I am seized for his debts to he sold as a slave. Save
me from worse than death!'
"Artaban trembled.
"It was the old conflict 111 his soul, which had come to him in
the ~aim-grove of Babylon and in the cottage at Bethlehem-the
~on~ltct betwi:en th~ expectation of faith and the impulse of love.
. ~tee the gift which he had consecrated to the worship of rehgi.on had been drawn from his hand to the service of humanity.
This was the third trial, the ultimate probation, the final and irrevocable choice.
"Was it his great opportunity, or his last temptation? He could
~ot tell. One thing only was clear in the darkness of his mindtt was inevitable. One thing only was sure to his cliviclecl heartto rescue this helples girl would be a true deed of love.

?ROCEEDINGi" OF THE

GHAND LOIJG 1 G OF C.\LJFOHNL\

"He took the pearl from his bosom. Never had it seemed so
lmninous. so radiant. so full of tender, living luster. He laid it in
the ham\ of the slan:. 'This is thy ransom, daughter! It is the
last of mv trc;!sures which I kept for the King.' \Vhilc he spoke,
the darkn;ss
the skv thickened, and shuddering tremors ran through
the earth, heaving co;1y11\sivcly like the breast of one who struggles
with mighty grief.
"The walls of the hothcs rocked to and fro. Stones were loosened
and crashed into the street. Dust clouds filled the air. The soldiers
fled in terror, reeling like drunken men. But Artaban and the girl
whom he had ransomed crouched helpless beneath the wall of the
Praetorium. A heavy tile, shaken from the
fell and struck the
old man en the temple. Ff c lay br<:athless and pale, with his gray
head resting on the yonng girl's shoulder, mid the blood trickling
from the wouncl. As !"he bent over him, fearing that he was dead,
there came a voice th re ugh I he twilight, very small and still, like
music rnunding from a distance, in which the notes are clear but
the words arc lost. The girl turned to see if some one had spoken
from the window above them, but she saw no one.
"Then the old man's lips began to move. as if in answer, and
she heard him sav in the Parthian tongue: 'Not so, my Lord~ :For
when saw I the<.: an hungered and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave
thee drink? \Vhcn saw I thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or
naked, a])(l clothed thee? \Vlicn saw I thee sick or in prison, and
came unto thee? Three-and-thirty years have I looked for thee; but
I have never seen tlw face. nor ministered to thee, my King.' He
ceased, and the sweet- voice came
And again the maid head
it, very faintly and far away. But now it seemed ag though she understood the words:
"'Verilv T sav unto thee, Tnasnmch as thou hast done it unto
one of the -least o-f these my brethren, thou has done it unto me.'

not recall the past. It has gone, bnt the future \\·a its for each of
us. Each year we will move into a new chamber never to return
to the ,old again.

194

"A calm radiance of wonder and joy lighted the pale face of Artaban
like the first ray of dawn on a snowy mountain-peak. One long,
last breath of relief exhaled gently from his lips.
"His journey was ended. His treasures were accepted. The
Other \Vise l\fan had found the King."
Most \Vorshipful Grand Master I have done. Poorly I knowhave I returned to you the confidence you placed in me one year
ago, bl1t from your generous heart I know you will overlook my
failure. You haYC led our Craft well. Our earthly showing und•:r
your guidance has multiplied and increased. Another strong man
will take up the burden where you lay it down. Each succeeding
year we will bnild a new chamber in our earthly home. \Ve can-

L

195

Just as the gentle New Engla11d poet, studying how the chambered nautilus
"Left the past year's dwelling for the new,
Stole with soft step its shining :1rchway through,
Built up its idle door,
St.retched in its shining home and knew the old no more,"
may we not, like him, burst into song and give
"Thanks for the heavenly message brought
Child of the wandering sea."

thee,

May we not, inspired with dcyotion to, and love for our great
brotherhood, with him
"hear a voice that sings:Build thee more stately mansicns, 0 my soul,
As the swift seasons roll!
"Leave thy low vaulted past·!
Let ·each new temple, nohler than the la~t,
Shut thee from hean~n with a dome more vast,
Till thou. at length are free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea."

J\IE:\IORL\L SERVICES.
Memorial services were then had in honor of the late
Past Grand .i\Iaster James A. Foshay and Grand Bible
Bearer Edwin H. Sherman, and the following program was
presented:
Organ Prelude ....... .

--- .............. _.Samuel D. :\fayer, Grand Organist
L. Test. Grand Chaplain
Eulogy-In Memoriam J<\;i. A. fo:diay_. __ --------········ ,__ .. John VI. Linscott
"Still, Still With Thee"
Eulogy-In .:VIemoriam Edwin :\. Sherman _____ ........ __ \Villiam P. Filmer
Quartette
"farewell"
Eulogy-"Our Dead".
____ ... Orin S. Henderson
Organ-"Aloha Oe".·------···-Samuel D. Jlfaycr, Grand Organist
Benediction ·--···
___ Grand Chaplain

196

PHOCEEDING8 OF THE:

PRAYER.
,\]mighty God, maker of men and builder of the universe! We,
Th\· humble craftsmen, beseech Tree of Thy compassion listen to our
s111;plication. \V c thank Thee for the good example of all those
departed this life in Thy faith wheresoever they have fnade their
abode. But especially do we bless Thy Holy :\" ame for the good
deeds and loyal fcllow:<hip of the members of this Grand Lodge whom
Tholl hast callcll--Brothcrs Fo>hay and Sherman-whom we remember at this hour with affection and gratitude. Grant that their noble
traits ma,- exert contim~ed influence upon those who have listened
to words. of wh,dom from them. For both teacher and historian do
we. their as,;emlilcd Brethren. render unto Thee our grateful praise.
Crant nnto us T\Jnu God and Friend of Man so to lay good founda.
tinm a' :\\a,;ter \Vorkmcn tbat we mav come unto those unspeakable joys which arc prepared in That 'B-uilding not made with hands
Etnnal in the I !can·1i,;. Amen.

IN MEMORIAM

1Jamrn J\. Jtrnnqay
By JOHN

W.

LINSCOTT

.lfost iVorshipfd Grand Jfaster and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
One year ago, on an occasicn similar to this of today, there
stood in the presence of this Grand Lod:,e one whorn we loved-a
prince among men-who addressed you in memory of his friend,
Past Grand Master I lcnry S. Orme. Today me meet in memory of
that speaker of hut a short twelve-month ago, my friend, your friend,
humanity's frirnd. Past Grand :\foster James A. Foshay.
This peaceful, quiet hour made sacred by the custom . of this
Crand Body; this gathering of the brethren of the "Mystic Tie"
whose hearts are filled with pleasant me1norics of association with
our late brother, and with sympathy for the loved ones who mourn;
the sokmn, yet sweet strains of music which touch the best in our
livcs; the flowers which speak to us not only of death and decay,
hut also of lifo and immortality; these seem to be a more fitting memorial to our dead than aught that can issue from human lips, and

GlUND LODCH: OF CALlFORXL\

197

one seems to hear the admonition :-peak softly and tenderly that
the beauty, the harmcny, and the solemnity of the hour be not disttirbed by a, discordant note.
The year~s go swiftly by, yet, as we pass each recurring milestone en life's jcunwy, we note many, many changes. 'Ve look
around and vainly strin: to catch a glimpse of familiar forms and
faces, but we see them not; we listen for the sound of voices once
dear, but only the echoes from the dim past return to us. Lost tci
us in bodily presence, hidden from our senses by the veil which
separates the seen from the unseen, yet often in the quiet hour of
meditation from lV!emory's chamLcr we 1Jring back past days, and
seem to recognize the familiar step. gra:;p the friendly hand and
hear their yoices a,; oi yore.
"How fast they fall, these we ha vc known
.\s leaves from Antnnm branches hlown,
So quickly sere;
'{cs, one by one, they drop away
,\s withered le;wes they fall, and stray
And disappear."
James A. Foshay was born at Cold Spring, Putnam County,
l'\ ew York, :'\ ovcmb:r 23, 1856. In Junc, 1879, he graduated from
the Albany Stale
School. and shortly after began teaching,
embarking on a career which led to national note as an educator. In
1881 he was elected Sc:10ol Commissioner of his native county an<l
was re-elected in 1884. In 1887, he was married to l\Iiss Phebe
Powell Miller, who, with enc daughter, l\liss Eleanor
a
teacher in the Les Angeles City Schouls, survives him.
Brother
carne to California in 1888 and in September of
that year was chosen principal of the public schools of M onrovi<1,
-which pcsition he held until July, 1893, when he resigned to become
Deputy St:pcrintendrnt of the Los Angeles
Schools. Two years
later he was elected Superintendent of Schools of his home city,
and for eleven years succeeding, at a time when Los Angeles W<is
moving forward hy leap> and hounds, he was at the forefront of
educational affairs, planning day and night for the best interests of
the schools which he loved.
He labored under great difficulties. because of the marvelous
growth of schcol popnlaticn in the city, bnt broad and deep he laid
the foundations for a ::clrnol system which has proven to be a modd
among the systems of the cities of our land. His administrative
ability, his grasp of great educational problems, his keen vision of
the needs and possiliilities of the future, and the marked success
which attended his efforts placed him high among the leaders of

GRAND LODGE: OF C.\LIFORKIA

198

educational thought and action. He was for years a member of the
National Council of Education, and also a member of the Council
of E<lucation of this State. In 1898, he was awarded a Master of Arts
Degree hy the l'nivcrsity of Southern California.
I have placed emphasis upon Foshay, the educator, for I love
to think of him as a true teacher, not alone of boys and girls but
also of men. Sincere, winnin:J; and forceful, his personality touched
the best in every one with whom he came in contact. Citizens, co·
laborers, ;-;tmlcnts. all felt the influence of his life and character.
Thousands of
and women can testify to the inspiration for better
things which camc into their lives when they were boys and girls
hy the ]oying, helpful words of advice and the deep personal inten"it
of James A. Foshay.
"Say ncit his work is done:
::-Jo deed of love or kindness ever dies,
Bnt in the liws of others multiplies;
Say it has jt,st begun."

Tn January, 1906, Brother Foshay was elected Supreme President
of the Fraternal Brotherhood, and resigned his position as Snperin·
tendcnt of Schools to
his entire attention to the arduous work
connected with his new ofiicc. II is snccessiul management of the
affairs of the Drothcrlrnod is attested to by his re election to the Su·
prcmc Presidency in 1909, and again in 1913.
It was not alone his own special line of work in which Brotlwr
was interested. He entered heartily into every movement
which tended to the betterment of the civic, commercial and social
life of his citv. As an active member of his church, as director of
the Chamber ~f Commerce, as Bank Director, he \Vas ever ready to
do his part. Possessed of a clear mind, good judgment, high ideals,
and a remarkable ptrsonal magnetism, he was a power for good in
the comnmnity in which he spent the most active years of his life.
As a Mason, many of you know his history better than I. He
passed with honor through ;111 the various Degrees which lead to the
heights in
and was a Thirty-second Degree member of the
Ancielit and Accepted Scottish Rite. In 1899 he was elected Most
Worshipful Grand .'.\faster of the jurisdiction of California, F. & A . .'.\L
With a deep Ion for the Order and a sincere desire to do his part
in the great work of uplifting humanity, he zealously performed
evcrv dutv and if ever a man exemplified in his life the high and
nohl~ prc~;pts of Freemasonry, that man was James A, Foshay.
Though his life was a lmsy one, entering as he did with ceasekss energy into thc strife and turmoil of the day, he found time for

199

one recreation, that of music. Gifted far above the most of us with
a sweet, powerful, inspiring voice, and possessed with an absorbing love for the divine art, he did mnch to raise the standard for
the best in music for young and old. Thousands have been charmed
and helped by the inspiring melody of his masterful voice. Many a
sorrowinrr one in the home into which the Grim Messenger had
come ha~ been comforted by the sympathetic strains which welled
forth from his very soul.
On January 14, 1914, Brother
while at his desk dictatin6
to his stenographer, was stricken and in a few hours he passed into
the Great Beyond. 'vVc know not what awaited him on the other
shore, ht:t we believe that in the plan of the Great Master a place
for higher service was prepared for the sweet and pure spirit which
we knew and loved so well in the flesh.
He has gone where
"Only the :;\faster shall praise us
And only the
shall blame;
And no one shall work for money,
And no one shall work for fame;
But each for the joy of the working,
And each in his separate star
Shall draw the Thing as he secs It.
For the God of Things as They Arc.''

IN MEMORIAM

·t~win A. ~~rrmau
BY

WlLLll\M

P.

FILMER

Through the invitation of our Most 'vVorshipful Grand Master, I
am privileged to speak a few words ccnccrning one whose life for
nearly sixty years was almost
devoted to the Masonic
Order.
My acquaintance with Brother Edwin Allen Sherman began al·
most with my own Masonic life, and thereafter I personally enjoyed
a friendship which seemed to be a continuance of an ardent attachment formed for my own beloved paternal sire in the early days of

200

PHOCEEDJNGS 01•' 'THE
GUAND LODGE 01'' CA LIFOHXIA

:\[asonry m ollr Great State: a friendship v.;hich eyer grew with the
increasing years.

Drothcr Sherman first saw the light of· day in North Bridg:'!water (now Brockton), Massaclrnsctts, August 25, 1829. He was
descended from the same stock as General Vvilliam Tecumseh Sherman nml lhat c:H1111cnt statesman, John Sherman, and inherited
to a marked degree the aggrE'ssivc spirit and exalted patriotism of
that distinguished family. He received his early education in Boston
and lc>ft home at the age of fourteen and follnd employment as a
reporter on the Chicago En:ning Journal. After working in various
capacities on newspapers in se\·eral cities of the Middle \Vest and
the East. learning of the impending war with ::\.fexico, the spirit of
patriotism mid ad\·cntllrc causetl him to enlist in the army in ?\ew
York City in 1846. He was assigned to Company A of the Eighth
Regiment U. S. Infantry and sen·ed under Generals \Vinfield Scott
and Zachary Taylor. He
considerable acth·e service and
was wounded at Vera Cruz. March 21, 1847. Partially recovering, he
continued with his regiment until after the capture of the City of
l\frxico, September, 1847, and was honorably discharged at New
Orleans in April, 1848, and he then went to reside in Philadelphia.
The
of gold en our Western slopes, and that same adventurous spirit was the lure th;1t brought him to the Pacific Coast
where he was destined to spend the remaining years of his life and
to do his part in the mighty work of building a new empire.
11 c crganizcd a company which embarked in the brig Thomas
Walters, reached Tampico, :\Iexico, procured horses, pack mules an<!
guides, cros.scd Mexico and re-embarked at :\fazatlan with several
hundred passengers on the bark Fanny and arrived in San Francisco :\lay 24, 1849.
From th:it time his life was most eventful. l'vlining, buying and
sl'lling horses, fighting Indians, serving as City Clerk at Sonoma
nnder Grncral Valll"jo, editing newspapers, surveying public lands,
editing and O\Ylling newspaper at San Bernardino, State Controller
nf :\lcvacla, practicing law, and acting as military instructor of the
J:\ational Ceard of California. were among the duties which occupied
Hs busy life until the Civil \Var commenced, when he was prennted from going to the front by being shot hy a sympathizer of
the Rchellion. Upnn recovering he went to Kew York City to accept
an a1ipoint111rnl on the staff of Major General Joseph Hooker, hut
;1s C('ncral Hooker was orcl('red !'.:! Cincinnati, Tirotbcr Sherman did
not participate in active service.
In 1866 he returned to ~cvada and was there variously engaged
111 111a11y vocations in both puhlic and privZLte life, until he removed

··-----------------------~ .. _. - - - ..

--

201

to the City of Oakland, California, June, 1883, where he continued
to reside until he passed away.
One 'Of the most marked of our brother's activities was his active
support of onr Public School system.
Immanuel Kant, the great philosopher, said that two things filled
him with womkr and awe-"the starry heavens above him and the
sense of moral responsibility within him."
Our brother in '1is relations to humanity keenly felt this sense
of responsibility and it cat'.sed him to consecrate his life to the
highest ideals. Realizing thnt through the ages man has ever been
the dupe of those who would prey upon his superstitious fears through
dogmatic and ·false religions, he foug·ht with all the fire of his entlmsiastic nature to combat a power \vhich he implicitly believed to
be inimical and in violent opposition to those basic principles upon
which rests the perpetuity of American Liberty.
Brother Sherman's humanitarianism caused him to cry out for
freedom of individual action in regard to religion and politics; to
decry against the political power of any Church or creed in the
governmental affairs of this, or any other nntion; and as a great
bulwark against the encroachment of such political hierarchical machina.
tions he fought with all the ardor of his great soul for universal nonsectarian educational institution~.
His Masonic life w:c<s marked by vitalized activity, for he served
in nearly all the offices of Blue Lodge. Chnpter of Royal Arch, Council
of Royal and Sdcct :\!asters, and Scotti:;h Rite, demitting frequently
from one body at his last place of
to hccomc a member
or charter member of another hotly, where he took up his new
abode. In this wav he was
identified with ;\fasonic Bodies
all over the Pacifi: Ccast from San Diego to Seattle; aurl even the
mining towns 'of X evada and California were bencGtc<l by his untiring labors and his cnr eloquent yoke.
His writings and his speeches, sometimes
from his
excess of zeal, were ever and always permeated with the desire to
inspire men to activity in a cause which he thought was necessary
to the salvation of his country. ·Vigorously and unsparingly did he
flay those whom he con:.iderec\ its enemies; yet his heart was always as tende1- as that of a little child. In all the annals of Masonry there are frw i11stances that furnish a nobler example of genuine,
~isinterested and exalted loyalty to principle and to Masonry as the
hfe of Brother Edwin Allen Sherman.

l'HOCl~EDINGS

202

1£ulngy-H®ur mrail
BY

ORRIN

STAPLES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OF 'l'llE

H

HENDERSON

.llost TVorship(ul Grund Jlastcr a11d Jfc111bcrs of the Grand Lodge:
Brrthrcn:''Tt seemeth snch a little way to me
.Across to that strange conn try, the Beyond;
.-\ml yet not strange, for it has grown to be
The home of those of whom I am so folld,
They make it seem familiar and most dear,
.\s journeying friends lwing distant countries near."
So close it lies that when our sight is clear the gleaming of that
strand is seemingly seen arnl one feels those who have gone, almost
in their very presence, even to the tonch of hancls. so much so, bnt
that for veiled eyes I leaven would he found here aLont us.
It docs not seem a day to drcacl, when from this dear earth we
shall j ourncy to that still dearer country of the dead and join those
long dreamed about; we love this world yet we shall love to go and
meet those who wait for ns.
Onr lives arc in the main what we make them. If we believe
that whatever is, is best, provided that we have always done the
very best that is in ns instead of trying to sokc the mysteries and
the ·whys ancl wherefores of this every-day life, we would get more
JOY and happiness in the short journey of life. \Ve would obtain
the fragrance of the flowers instead of the rankness of the weeds.
vVe wonlcl drink in the rose, bathed with its cliamoncls of clew instcacl of grasping the thorns. Tn the endeavor to forget self and
make others contented and happy, to follow the golden rule, practicing instead of preaching, praising instead of censuring, making all
allowances for other's shortcomings, having a smile instead of a
frown to licstow, this grand old world of onrs wonld assume a different aspect; we would see it through the glass of hope, and it would
be beautiful and bright.
We, gathered here, feel again the touch of vanished hands. vVe
meet not to lament and regret, but in reverence for the dead. vVe
bewail not the encl of the race, but to recall the manner -in which
it was run. vV c consider life as a series of dnties imposed, and

203

death not the failure, hut the trinmph. In a true sense, it may be
said that onr 11rothcrs who have passed on before us are immortal,
for somC\,vhere in tl1c great Universe of Goel we believe that they
still live. vV e cannot believe that the spirit of man, which thinks
and feels and hopes and loves, can he annihilatecl when we know
that the poorest grains of sane[ beneath our feet are immortal, and
that every atom of whatsoever nature, lives on frirevcr.
Today, we as a Fraternity or Brotherhood convene in perfect
harmony from the length and breadth of this Grand Juriscliction to
do honor to our cleacl who have passccl from the rolls of this Crane\
Lodge and have been c-ntcrecl upon the Eternal Rolls of that Celestial
Lodge whose Supreme Grancl l\Iaster is the Great Architect of the
Universe .
\Vhcrcvcr there sleeps a brother :\laster l\Iason 'neath marble
shaft or grassy mound, kt l's with charity pronounce our studied
tributes. ministering with Brotherly Love to tho"e that may neecl
anc\ with Fidelity cn·r maintain a constant watch over the bivouacs
of our dead. numbering since last report One Thousand and Twelve
(1,012). They have crossed the mystic river, where angels gnicle
the ferry, and exact as a passport a life's record of good deeds; their
memory only is left us, but how pleasantly we recall it.
It is not, of course, with material things alone that memory deals.
We recall a Brother ancl we sec him once more, hear his voice, feel
again the grasp of his hand, it is true; but these arc only expressions
of something deeper; that treasure of mind and heart, which, like
the magnet of the soul, draws kinclrecl spirits ancl holds them in
that mystic aclhcsion callee\ "Friendship." So when we remember a
friend and brother, it is net so much what he said. what he did, or
what he f111d, that gives value to the remembrance, hit what he was.
They sleep .in peace. Their lives were open books, doing by all
men as they would be clone by, fearing Goel and loving their fellowman.
Death called them hence. They went fearlessly. To some, each of
them but a few short weeks ago, movecl among us, the very symbol
of life and with hope sustaining.
We can all recall vividly happy racliant smiles beaming with
the sunshine of life, penetrating with its presence the very air al10ut
them. Manly forms in yol'th and olcl age. Daring yet timicl; graceful yet strong; frank; honest; brave all. Yon knew the grasp of
their hancls. lin11, warm ancl true; ycmr eye met theirs-a human
soul-a o;oul of a friend \Vas there. Now they have gone to the
Silent :\Iajority-gone to their Eternal Rest.
Truly the ·Mystic
Archer loves a shining mark. Our Brothers have joined the great
choir beyond the mountain ran:;es of time, and sleep beside the still
waters in the Valley of Peace. For them "Life's fitful dream is o'er,"

204

l'HOCJ;;J;;DINGS OF TTH;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the shrouclcd Trumpeter from the Eternal Bivouacs called and silently
they answered; we watched them as they passecl from the noon-clay
of life to the silence of the grave; there in tears we left them, but
we know that from the sh;iclow of the gra\·e, they emerged into the
sunshine of the hereafter.
"They arc gathered on those distant fields,
Those green tents,
Whose curtains ne\·er outward swing."

111

Shall they, indeed, sleep on forcnr-a long lingering sleep, a
slumlier unawakened by the music of the reveille?
No voice has hroken the vast silence of the camp. No warrior
from its tentccl fields has retraced the line of march. And yet, I
];clieve lwyoncl the horizon line of death, the stars look down and
smile on fairer realms than ours, whose shores arc kissed by happy
waves that mingle their glad voices in the mighty chorus of a supernal sea.
Each year as we come together we recall the Brothers who are
gone, some nohlc trait. some generous act. comes to our mind and
softens our hearts, and we wonder if, when our names are on the
roll of the clead, someone will think well of us, and we resolve that
so far as in our power lies, it shall he so.
And so it is, my Brothers, that we today hid them peace, eternal
peace; they ha,·e "gone to the still country. ·where the hailstorms and
fire showers <lo not reach, and the heaviest laden wayfarer at length
lays clown his load."
"In the vast Cathedral leave them,
Goel accept them, Christ receive them."

LK\ VE OF

ABSE~CE.

Brother Francis V. Keesling-, Junior Grand \\r ardcn,
introduced the following resolution:
\\'JJJ'RJ,.\s, The V.'. \V.'. Grand Secretary Brother John Whichcr
has always liccn most faithful in the performance of his official
duties, am\ has during the past two months pcrformecl service under
co11clitic11s \\'hich han· tried 11im mentally and physically;
l?r It Rcsoh•rd. That lw lie arnl he is hereby grantc(\ a vacation
with full pay for the periQ(\ of two months at such lime as may be
selected by the Grand l\Iaster.

The resolution was adopted by a unammous vote.

205

,

GENERAL REPORT OF FINA:\CE COl\Il\IITTEE.
Brother 0. N. Goldaracena, Chairman of the Finance
Committee, presented the general report of that committee
as follows, all which were approved and adopted as read
except the report relating to the financing of the ::\Iasonic
Temple Association, which was referred back to the committee with directions to report again Friday morning:
To the J!.'. W.'. Gri 11d Lodge of Califor11ia:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to report as follows:
~- c ha vc reccin'd and considered the reports of the Boards of
Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, Oakland, San J osc
and Sacramento and offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption :

Resoh•cd. That the sum of $7,788.40 be ancl the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be divided as
follows:
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco ...................................... $2,672.40
4,000.00
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles ·---·-··-···---·········
To the Board of Relief of San Diego
1.000.GO
To the Board of Relief of Oakland
116.00
------·--·······
"

\Ve have also hat! under consideration the matter of salaries for
the Grand Officers and beg leave to report thereon as follows and
make the following recommendations:
The Salary of the Crane\ Treasurer
......................... .
$200.00
The Salary of the Grand Secretary . _.............................. ..
3.600.00
1,800.00
The Salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary .................. ..
The Salary of the Grand Organist
................ ..
60.00
The Salary of the Grand Tyler .
_.............. .
125.00
For the services of the Chairman of the Committee on Cor200.00
respondence
...................
.. .............. .
For contingent expenses of the Grand Master to he used in defraying actual expenses incurred hy him in the performance
of his duties
..................... .
1,200.00
The Salary of the CratHI Lecturer.. ............. ..
3,000.00
:\s it is impossible to know the exact amonnt of the contingent
expenses of the Grand Lecturer the Committee recommends that the
Grand Lecturer file with the Grand Secretary an itemized account

206

207

PROCE:EIJING8 OF THE

GHAND LOI lGE O.b' C_\.LlFOrtNIA

of hi;; actn;:l c.-;cpc1i-;v;; incnrrc,\ in the discharge of his duties and
thal whcn said account has been audited by the Committee on accom1ts that it be paid as other accounts arc paid.

your 'C01mnittee has had under consideration the question of the
maintenance of our }fasonic Homes at Decoto and San Gabriel, and
are of the opinion that, as heretofore, the tax of $1 per capita should
be continu:d. \Ve therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Rcsoh:cd, That the usual per capita tax of $1 be kvicd on our
mernlwrship for the maintenance of said Decoto and San Gabriel Homes.

Ymir Committee has also cunsi<lcrcd the claim of Illinoistown
Lndgc Xo. 51 of Colfa-;c, California, for $90 incurred hy the burial
of Brot'wr Phillips :'.\Iormon of :'.\Jokswor;h Lcidgc No. 194 of \VadcJ:ridge. Cornwall, Engbml. .\ ftn going into the matter carefully it
app,•ars that the Lodge of which the ckcc;bcrl Brother was a member will not rcimlnir,:c l llinoi.,town L<Hlge for the amount expended
am! th;1t the fmanccs of llli11oi,:tm1·n Lod,.;c can ill afford to stand
this cxpc11'"" \Ve. thndnre, 111;1ke the follnwing recommendation:
Ncsoi:·of. T!1;:t the

;,11111

(Jf $90 he paid lllinoistown Lodge )fo.

51 lo rcirnln1ro;c· it for the cxpc·n::c inct·rrcd in the ft111l'ral of the late
llrolhcr Phillips :\lnnmm r:f :\[ok:<worth Lodge Xo. 194 of \Vadehridge, Cornwall,
\' onr Committee l1a;; cnmddcred the claim of Oak Gron: Lodge
:\n. 215. amounting to
expended hy that Ledge in hehalf of
:\I rs. L. Lyon:<. the wiclow of ;1 demitted :\! ason. This money was
rxpcndcd ;1( the direction of the Grand ".\'faster and we recommend
that (bk \ ~rnn· L"dgc X o. 215 lie reimlnir:;cd for the amount, and
offer tltl· following n·so!ntio11:

lfrsolz•cd. That Oak Gro\'C L()(lgc Xo. 215 he reimbursed to the
amcnrnt cf $iOC.1 for mcney expcmkd in behalf of :'.lfrs. L. Lyons.

l\,'.wh,'li. That our :'.If.'. \V.'. Grand ]\faster, John D. l\Iurphcy,
he· rcq11c:-;tcd tu sit for his portrait done in oil, and that. when finished,
the V.'. \\'.'. Crarnl
have the same suitahly framed and
placed with the portraits of other Past Grand l\Tastcrs in the Masonic

d this city.

.\!:\SO:\JC llOl\!ES.

y,,nr Committ~e on Finance has examined the linancial statements 1ircsc11krl hy the :\1asm1ic I !om<'s of California, certified to
by an expert acco1111ta11t employed for the purpose, and lincls said
financial statements accurate and correct.
Tt is with great plcasnrc that \\'C again, as we did last year,
1h,· Hoard oi Tn'stccs cf >aid I !omes upon the admirable and pait1'!aking manner in which thcv have conducted said
Homes during the' last .\«'ar. \Ve han: likcwi;c personally examined
the accounts and the reports of the Cram! Treasurer and Grand
, am! ll'C find that
coincide with each other and are
compli111c·111

\Orrect.

Jnasnrnch as the amount derived for the representative fund of
this Grand Lodge during the last fiscal year is in excess
and inasmuch as the amount required to pay the mileage for the
yearlv communications of this Grand Lodge docs not
$8.000,
we offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :

Be it and it is hcrtbv Rcsobcd . That the tax of 20c per capita
for the :eprescntative fu;d of this Grand Lodge br rcducetl to 15c
per capita.
Your Committee has likewise had under consideration the matter referred to it hy the Grand l\Iastcr relative !D the 11urchasc from
Mrs. E. R. Rates of a
done in oil, of Past Cram! 1\lastcr
Morris l\L Estee, and we offer the following reoolution and recommend its adoption :
Be it and it is hcrcb:;< Rcsoh•cd, That this Grand Lodge appropriate the sum of $125 from its funds, and that the
done in
oil, with its frame, be
for said sum from }I rs. E. R. Bates.
Your Finance Committee has likewise considered the resolution
referred to it asking for an appropriation of $5.25 in favor of Brother
A. B. Barnett of Elsinore Lodge Xo. 289. 1t appears that said
Brother attended the commcnicaticn of this Grand Lodge held in
the City of Los Angeles in 1912, ;m<l that he was compelled to go
back to his home before he had had an opportunity to receive said
sum from the Pay of Members Committee, and we are of the opinion
that said Brother's claim is a just one. We therefore offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Be it and it is hereby RcsolTed. Tlwt the snrn of $5.25 be appro~
priated from the funds of thi~ Crand Lodge and paid to Brother
A. B. Barnett of Elsinore Lodge Xo. 289.

THE ROSTER
Your Committee has cardullv considered the matter of printing
the Roster for the coming year.
c find that the card system adopted
at the session of the Grand Lodge in 1912 has been completed. At
that time it was also resolved that after the installation of the card

\v

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

index system the present Roster should be discontinued. The Committee, however, feels that the Lodges throughout the State should
have a list of the officers of the Lodges in the Jurisdiction to facilitate them in the work of correspondence. At the present time there
is printed by the Grand Lodge a list giving the inspectors and the
Lodges comprising th~ various districts. The Committee feels that
it would be well to amplify the present list to include the officers
of each Lodge. This will answer the double pnrpose of furnishing
the Lodges with a list of the inspectors together with the officers
of the several Lodges in the Jurisdiction.
•

that Anderson's ::\Ianual has been of incalculable value to the Mas.ons
of this Jurisdiction and appreciating fully the extent of our obligations to Brother Anderson in the matter of said work, our own
judgment is that no necessity now exists for the publi~ation provided for, and we recommend that the proposed resolution be not
adopted."
Although your Committee on Finance realizes that it has nothing
to do with matters of policy it nevertheless unanimously concurs
with the judgment of the Committee on Jurisprudence, as quoted
above, and we sec no reason at this time why we should return to
the old form of publication.
o. :vt GoLDARACENA,
RALPH LowE,
\VM. A. SHERMAN,
w. P. JEFFREYS.

\Ve therefore offer the following resolutions and move their
adoption:

Rcsoh;cd, That the present Roster be and the same is hereby
discontinued.
Be it and it is further Rcsoh'cd, That as soon as practical after
the first oi February of each year, the Grand Secretary publish in
pamphlet form or in such form as he may consider to the best advantage, a list of inspectors together with the Lodges comprising
the various districts, and the officers of each Lodge, and that a
copy of this list be sent, withot1t expense, to each inspector and to
each Lodge in the Jurisdiction.

209.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until tomorrow
morning at 9:30 o'clock.

ANNOTATED CONSTITUTION.
This Grand Body has referred to your Finance Committee a
manuscript copy of the present annotated Constitution with considerable extraneous matter' stricken out of the annotation, thereby
'making the book considerably smaller and much
to the lay
member; there has also been referred to us the manuscript copy of
the approved decisions of the Grand Lodge of California, compiled
by Brother James \V. Anderson. \Ve take it that in line with the
resolution proposed by Brother Anderson in 1913 that it is intended
the Constitntion should he printed with the decisions printed at the
back of the book in the form of the old Anderson Manual. This
matter was pretty thoroughly discussed last year and the report of
the Committee on Jurisprudence referring to the proposal to revive
Anderson's Manual reads as follows:
"We are not advised as to the reasons existing for the new
edition of Andcnon's Manual. The question whether such an edition
should be issued is purely one of policy for the Grand Lodge to
determine. \Ve deem it proper to state, however, that insofar as
we can ascertain everything that it is proposed to insert therein is
already contained in the book entitled 'Constitntion and Ceremonies;
pllblished by order of the Grand Lodge in 1911. 'While recognizing

l\T orning Session.

Friday, October 16, 1914.
The Grand Lodge was called at 9 :30 o'clock, the Gran•l
l\faster presiding.
The Minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
.I i:..
The following telegram just received by the Grand
Secretary was then read:
Washington, D. C., October 15, 1914.
Grand Marshal Kettner and myself beg to acknowledge the receipt of vour congratulatory telegram conveying the kind expression5
of the Grand Lodge of California in the resolutions adopted at the
sixty-fifth annual communication, and assure the Brethren of our
high appreci<ition of their regards. \Ve regret exceedingly that Con-

211

l'llOCE:E:DINGS OF TITJc

GRAND LODGE: OF CALIFORNIA

gressional duties have prcventecl our participating in this great communication, as no honors we have received arc so highly prized as
those conferred upon us by the .:.Iasonic Fraternity, whose high ideals
of justice, right, equality and good will to mankind are an inspiration to all memliers of this Fraternity. Kindly convey to each memhr of the Grand Lodge our f ratcrnal greeting. VI/ e look forward
with pleasure lo participation in the next annual communication.

a most excellent reputation, ancl from what your Committee has hcen
able to learn, has since maintainecl that reputation; his one offense
being that in a moment of weakness he yicldetl to the temptation
offered by others and violated the law of the land and of our Order.
lt appears that the acc1:sec!'s 1Iasonic record prior to his expulsion
was as follows :
He was made a :\la.0011 in l lartfonl Lodge Ko. 88, in Hartfonl.
Conn., in 1885; served as :\laster of Shelby Lodge, Shelby, Ala., for
one year; as ;\laster of Colrnila Lodge, Colrnila, .:.Iex., for two years;
as Grand 1Iaster of the Grand Loclge of the State of Cohuila, 1Iex.,
one year; affiliated with Paci lie Loclgc at Honolulu and afterwards
moved to l-1 ilo and liecame a member of the Hilo Lodge, where he
servecl as :\laster of that Lodge at the time it was under dispensation. .\t the time of l1is expulsion lie was a member of Royal Arcl1
Chapter of 11anila, also of the Commarnlary at Honolulu, Lodge of
Perfection of l-lartford, Conn., and the Consistory of Colmila, l\Iex.
\Vhile nothing can be said at this time in extenuation of the accused offense, other than the fact that he has manifested sincere regret, ancl repentance, ancl a persistent desire to he rcinslatecl to the
rights and benefits of 1Iasonry, that the cloud 11mlcr which he and
his family rest may lie in rnme degree remm·ed, your Committee has
come to the conclusion that in Yicw of the fact that our government,
in a spirit of ~11agnanimity, has at least partially forgiven the offense,
ot:r great Order should not he less charitalilc, hut should extend a
helping hand to this fallen Brother in the closing years of his life.

210

(Signed) GEo. G. PERKINS,

\,Y ~!. KET'fNER.

Brother Randolph V. \Yhiting from the Committee on
Grievances reported as follows:
To the ill ost Worshipful Grand Lodge of Calif onzia:

Your Committee to whom was referred the petition for restoration of accused in Trial Record No. 85 Vi, respectfully repor1s as
follows:
The accused was charge<! in two specifications with un-Masonic
conduct.
First: With having in the year 1909, in the City of Manila,
Philippine Islamls, framlulently and criminally introduced into the
Philippine Jslands from a foreign country, certain opium contrary
to the law, and
Seconclly: With ha Ying admitted that he declared falsely under
oath, that he had no knowledge of the shipment of the said opium
until its arrival in the Philippine Islands. The accused was charged
in the United States Court in :Manila with the offense set out in the
first specification and entered a plea of guilty, upon which the Court
imposed a sentence of one year imprisonment and the payment of
one-half the cost of prosecution. Subsequently, on application of the
accused to the Governor the penalty of imprisonment was remitted
upon the condition that the acc\lsed should lea vc the Philippine Islands
and never return.
The accused was brought to trial in Manila Lodge No. 1 on the
above set forth specifications and was found guilty and sentenced to
suspension. Upon appeal to the Crane! Lodge of California, the sentence of suspension was set aside and the accused ordered expelled
from the rights and privileges of l\Iasonry.
From the petition for restoration, it appears that the accused, who
is a man advanced in years, and a man of family, which consists of
his wife and son, the latter now being a member of .our honored
Fraternity, had always borne prior to his one act of transgression,

Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution:
Resol7:cd, That the petition of the accused under Trial Record No.
850 for restoration to the rights ancl privileges of Masonry be and
the same is hereby granted.

Respectfully suhmitted,
RA:-inoLPH .-\. \VnJT1Nl;,
]. P. BERNHARD,
CIL\S. ALBERT ADAMS,
CF.ORGJC L. ]ONES.
Committee.

The report was adopted and the Brother was restored
to a!l the rights and privileges of ).fasonry.

212

i

i·

PlWCJ<.;lGDINGS OF THE

::\fASO::\IC TE::\1PLE ASSOCIATIO:\.
The Finance Committee, to vvhom had been referred
back the report of the :Masonic Temple Association for
further consideration, reported by Brother Goldaracena as
follows:
To the Jlost Worshipful Cra11d Lodge of California:

Relati\'e to the report of the Board of Directors of the l\Iasonic·
Temple Aso.ociation of California, referred to this Committee, wherein
it was recommended that the Grand Lodge pro\'idc for the retirement of the indebtedness of the l\Iasonic Temple .'\ssociation of California, aggregating $304,036.87. by pledging itself to subscribe and pay
for stcck to the amount of $25.000 annually until the amount is liquidated, we deem it inadvisable for the Grand Lodge at this time to
subscribe for additional stock in the Temple Association and therefore ad\'ise that the recommendation be not adopted.
Realizing that the aforesaid recommendation was made for the
purpose of meeting the pressing needs of the l\Iasunic Temple Association, in which the greater part of the funds of the Grand Lodge is
invested, and th;it it is imperative that some action be taken at this
time for relieving the immediate necessity of the l\Iasonic Association. and that it is desirable that some plan be fornotulated and pursued
for the proper financing of the indebtedness of the Association, the
Finance Committee respectfully proposes the following general plan
and recommends its adoption :
1. That the Masonic Temple Association of California create a
bond issue in the sum of $350,000, evidenced by bonds of such denominations as may he cleterminccl upon by the Association. such bonds
to become clue and payable twenty years after elate, to bear interest
at the rate of 5'/r per annum. payable semi-annually, and to be secured
by a mortgage or trust deecl of all the real am! personal property of
said Association. That the particulars and details of said bonds ancl
said mortgage or deed of trust be prescribed by the directors of said
Association.
2. That the Grand Lodge guarantee the payment of interest on
said looncls.
3. That this Cran<! Loclgc huy as soon as said boncls arc rcacly
for clelil'ery $25.0llO of saicl boncls at par plus accruccl interest.
4. That this Grand Lodge shall n'Cei,·c bonds at par for all
moneys hereafter aclvanced to said Association to enable it to punctually pay interest on its bonded indebtedness, but such advances sh::ill
not exceed the actual deficit of said Association.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

213

5. That said Association shall use $304.COO of said bonds to liquidate its present outstanding obligations and shall retain the balance
of said bonds in its treasury and shall not issue or deliver the same
without the express consent of this Grand Lodge, except that the same
or any part thereof may be issued and delivered to this Grand Lodge
for the moneys paicl to said Association by this Grand Lodge to enable
the Association to meet its interest obligations or deficits, or for the
purchase price of bonds hought by this Grand Lodge and except that
the same or any part thereof may be liypothecatecl in liquidating the
outstanding obligations of said Association.
6. That the Treasurer of this Crane! Lodge so vote the stock
of this Grand Lodge in said 4tssociation at each annual stockholders'
meeting thereof, that the Grand ]\faster, Deputy Crane! ]\faster, Senior
Grand \Varden, Junior Grand \Varden, Cram! Treasurer, Grand Sec
retary and the five members of the Finance Committee of this Gram!
Lodge shall be directors of said Association.

The Finance Committee further proposes the following
resolutions and recommends their adoption:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge guarantee the payment of interest on bonds to be issued by the Masonic Temple Association of
California and that the Grand l\Iastcr of l\f a sons of California he am!
he is hereby authorized and empowered for and on behalf of the Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted :.Iasons of California, to endorse on
each of the bonds of the :Masonic Temple Association of California,
issued or to be issued in pursuance of a plan therefor adopted by
this Grand Lodge, a guarantee of the payment of interest on said
bonds, which guarantee shall he in the following or other suitable an:!
proper form:

For \'alue received. the Grand LodQ,"e of Free ancl Accepted Masons
of California, in pursuance of a resolution duly adopted October 16,
1914, hereby guarantees to the holder of this bond the punctual payment of intncst on the within bond evidenced by the coupons attached
thereto at the time and in the manner therein specified, and hereby
waives notice, demand, presentment of payment and protest.
Grand l\f aster of l\Iasons of California.

,Jud be it furt!zcr Rrsol-«rd, That the Crarnl Trcasmer of this
Grand Lml>:e he ancl he is 11ereby authorized, empowcretl and directed
to \'otc the shares of the capital stock of the l\fasonic Temple Association of California, a corporation, owned by this Grand Lodge, at any
and all regular and special meetings of the stockholders of said corporation, and that for and on behalf of this Grand Lodge, he sign

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNU.

all necessary notices. consents. certificates and other instruments, necessary or proper, for the purpose of originally creating the bonded
indebtedness of said corporation. That said authority of said Grand
Treasurer shall continue until October 1, 1919, unless sooner revoked
by this Grand Lodge.

The report was acloptecl as presented.

PAY Of<' ::\1El\1BERS.

Brother Howard Kerche,·al. Chairman of the Committee on Pay of :\lembers, ])resented the followinrr
re1)0rt '
b
which was adopted as reacl.
To the ;w:. W.'. Grand Lodge of Califor1Lia:
Your Committee, charged with the duty of ascertammg the cost
of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in
the state to the place of meeting of the Grand 'Lodge and return,
and of reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the
Officers or Representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well
as the Grand Officers, Past Grand l\!asters, Chairmen of Standin"
Committees. and Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure for trans~
portation to and from the Grand Lodge, report that they ha\'e carefully discharged that duty, and submit the following statement:
GRAND OI'FlCERS.

John D. l\Iurphcy, Grand !\faster, Bridgeport
............... .
$46.40
Benjamin F. l3leclsoe, Deputy Grand Master, San Bernardino ..... 38.75
Albert G. Burnett, Senior (irand \Varden, Sacramento.
6.0'.J
Lemuel L. Test, Grand Chaplain, Pasadena .................. .
35.50
William H. Waste, Grand Orator, Oakland
.20
John P. Jarman, Grand Bible Bearer. San Jose
2.50
. 35.00
Robie E. Dill, Senior Grand Steward, Los Angeles .. ..
Benjamin 13. Tuttle, Junior Grand Steward, Davis .................... ..
4.GO
Theo. J . .:\1illiken, Grand Pursuivant, Sacramento
6.00
Total ......................................................................... .
PAST

GRAND

$174.95

MAS'r£RS.

\Villiam T. Lucas, Santa .:\Iaria.. . ........ ..
Thomas Flint, l lollistcr ....... . ............... .
Orrin S. Henderson, Stockton .. ..
l\Iotlcy H. Flint, Los Angeles........
.. ...................... ..
Dana R. \Veller, Los Angeles .............................................................. ..

$19.SO
5.30
5.00
35.00
35.Q:)

Total ........................................................................................ ,.,.... ,., ...

$99.8'.l

215

INSPECTORS.

$40.00
Trustom R. Dinsmore, First District, Eureka ................ .
21.00
Gustav A. Hutaff, Fourth District, Dunsmuir..
15.00
Willard Clark, Seventh District, Orland
25.40
Samuel H. Crow, Eighth District, J anesvillc
...................... .
13.20
Frederick L. Arbogast, Twelfth District, ); enda City ...... ..
8.20
M. David Lininger, Thirteenth District, Auburn..
.. .............. .
12.00
Herbert J. Graham, Fourteenth District, Oroville ......................... .
4.50
Eli Bush, Eighteenth District, Healdsburg ...................................... ..
2.00
Robert L. Robertson, Nineteenth District, Vallejo ...................... ..
6.00
J. Frank l\Iorgan, Twentieth District, Sacramento ...................... ..
12.40
Louis A. Reeg, Twenty-second District, Placerville .................... ..
10.50
Jam cs E. Dye, Twenty-third District, Jackson ............................. ..
5.50
William J. Thomayer, Twenty-fifth District, Lodi ....................... ..
2.00
Brooke L. Moore, Twenty-sixth District, Martinez .......... .
.70
George F. Rodden, Thirty-fifth District, San Rafael... .................. .
1.60
Charles G. Landscheit, Thirty-sixth District, Redwood City..... .
8.10
L. A. C. H. Kylberg, Thirty-ninth District, .:\lercecl... ................ ..
7.50
Joseph E. Place, Fortieth District, Los Banos
.................... ..
55.40
Leicester C. Hall, Forty-first District, Bishop ................ .
15.50
John L. Mitchell, Forty-third District, Selma ................................ ..
17.00
Frank A. Ellsworth, Forty-fourth District, Tulare ...................... ..
18.10
Richard E. Shore, Forty-fifth District, Lemoore ................ ..
21.80
Arthur S. Crites, Forty-sixth District, Bakersfield ...................... ..
28.40
David J. Reese, Forty-eighth District, Ventura ............................ ..
35.00
John H. Bean, Forty-ninth District, Los Angeles ........................ ..
35.00
Samuel E. Burke, Fiftieth District, Los Angeles .......................... ..
35.00
Winfred ]. Sanborn, Fifty-first District, Los Angeles ................ ..
35.00
Edward B. Spencer, Fifty-second District, Los Angeles ............ ..
37.00
William A. Vandergrift, Fifty-fifth District, Pomona ................ ..
36.40
Percy L. Nash, Fifty-sixth District, Covina .................................. ..
35./0
Albert P. Henry, Fifty-seventh District, Downey ........................ .
35.50
Clark H. Shaw, Fifty-eighth District, Long Beach ..................... ..
36.00
Eli B. Trago, Fifty-ninth District, Santa Ana ............................ ..
38.50
Thomas C. Browning, Sixtieth District, Colton .......................... ..
38.50
Henry D. French, Sixty-first District, Riverside .......................... ..
45.0ll
Egbert C. Bangs, Sixty-second District, San Diego ...................... ..
53.40
J. Stewart Ross, Sixty-third District, El Centro ........................ .
35.00
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angeles ........................................ .
Total .

$882.45

216

PTIOCEEDJNGS OF TITE

GR.\ND LODGE OF CALIFOTINIA

RECAPITULATION.

Commissioners in the trial, and joined in finding the wrdict of guilty
and sentence of expulsion.
........................ $6,325.35
174.95
99.80
882.45

*For Representatives of Lodges
For Grand Officers ..... .
For Past Grand i\Iasters
For Inspectors ..... .
Grand Total ..
*For items, see pages 131-140, 214-216.

··············· ....$7,482.55

Rcsoh·cd, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of the
State of California for the current fiscal year, in acldition to the clues
prescribed \Jy the Constitution, the sum of 15 cents for each member
borne upon the respective rulls at the date of the annual reports. Said
levy shall \Je for the payment of Representatives, Grand Officers, Past
Grand Masters and Inspectors, and shall be paid at the same time and
in the manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.
H. D. KERCHEVAL;

A. L.

217

This violates not only the spirit but the letter of the law that the
same person shall not be accuser and judge, and for this reason, in
the opinion of your Committee, the case must be reversed and remanded for a new trial.
Your Committee, however, desires to report in addition to the
foregoing, that the accused filed on appeal the affidavit of himself
and others, setting forth facts, which, if true, not only excused his
failure to appear and offer a defense at the trial, but also exonerated
him completely from any wrong doing, in the matters specified.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
recommend its adoption :

Resolved, That the action of West Lake Lodge Xo. 392 F. & A. M.,
in the matter of Trial Record No. 165 be, and the same is hereby
reversed and that the case he remanded for retrial in accordance with
the Constitution and Laws of the Order.

AURADON,

RANDOLPH

V. WHITING,

AMOS STEVENS,

J. P. BERNHARD,

LUCESTER

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

C.

HALL,

Committee of Pay Members.

GEO.

L. JONES.

Which was adopted.
Brother \\'hiting from the Committee on Grievances
reported as follows:
To the M.".

w:. Gra11d Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom was referred Trial Record No. 165
expelled by West Lake Lodge, No. 392 F. & A. l\I., respectfully
reports as follows :
The accused was charged in three specifications with, first, havirg
wilfully defrauded a certain party and the father of the party each
out of the sum of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars, paid by them to him
on account of their initiation fees for mem\Jership in vVest Lahc
Lodge; second, attempting to defraud his business partner. a J'vla:,ter
Mason in good standing of \Vest Lake Lodge, out of the approximate
sum of twenty-seven hundred and fifty ($2750.00) dollars, by the me
of certain false telegrams; and third, wilfully defrauding a Brother
Mason out of a sum of money, which is not set forth in the specification.
The record discloses that the Junior \Varden of the Lodge not
only preferred the cha rgcs against the accused, but sat as one of the

To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom was referred Trial Record No. 163 of
Alturas Lodge No. 248, F. & A. :\I.. suspended by said Lodge on
August 8th, 1914, for unmasonic conduct, begs leave to report as
follows:
The accused was charged in a single specification with the offense
of unmasonie conduct. Because of the very serious character of the
charge made, your Committee has given the record more than usual
consideration, but is forced to the conclusion that, considering the
character of the evidence offered to support the charge, there may
have been a gross miscarriage of justice.
The only evidence that tends even remotely, in the opinion of
your Committee, to sustain the charge is purely hearsay, and for that
r~ason, under the repeated rulings of our Grand Lodge, was inadmissible and is therefore entitled to no consideration. The rernainini:;
evidence not only is insufficient to sustain the charge made, but by
reason of its nature creates a suspicion against the good faith of the
prosecution.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

218

GHAND LODGE: OF CALIFORJ\'IA

The accused, in his answer to the charge states that he was
unable to attend the trial at Alturas on account of lack of necessary
money to go there from San Francisco, where he was then residing
with his wife and two lioys. He also states that he was unsuccessful
in obtaining the sen·ices of a hrother lo present his defense, although
he applied to three, but the record shows that he was represent_ed o_n
the trial by a brother, although no evidence was introduced 111 !us
behalf.
\Vhile there is some competent evidence which might, if true.
sustain a less serious charge than the one specified, your Committee
is oi the opinion that this evidence is capable of either explanation or
successful refutation and therefore believes that justice requires that
the accused should at least be gh·en a hearing in his defense and for
that reason your Committee offers the following resolution:
Rcsohicd, That the action of ,\ltnras Lodge ;.Jo. 248 in suspendin~
Trial Record :t\ o. 163, be, and the same is hereby reversed and the
cause remanded for a new trial.
R,\NDOLPH

V. WHITING,

J. P. BERNHARD,
CHAS. ALBF.RT ADAMS,

219

Resolved, That the action of X orthern Light Lodge :\'" o. 190 in
expelling record No. 146 be reversed, and that a new trial be had
therein.
Respectfully submitted,
J.

P.

BERNHARD,

RANDOLPH
GEO.

V. \VHITING,

L. JONES,

CHARF.S A. ADAMS.

Brother \\rm. H. Crocker, President of :.Iasonic Temple Association, being present, was formally introduced to
Grand Lodge. He made a very interesting talk, expressive
of his pleasure in being able to be of some use in the
building of the Temple. disclaiming, however, any claim
to thanks for his efforts, and complimenting in the highest
terms the Brethren who have labored with him in accomplishing the result.

GEoRGE L. JoNF.s,

Committee.

The report of the Committee was adopted.

Brother Bernhard from the same Committee presented
the following report which was adopted as read:
To the ]1.1.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom was referred Trial Record Xo. 146 ex~
pellecl by Northern Light Lodge X o. 190 on the 29th clay of Septernbe;·,
1913, beg leave to report as follows:
The brother was charged with unmasonic conduct.
All the evidence was improperly received because Section 202 of
our Constitution provides that affidavits taken without notice cannot
be received, and that hearsay evidence is not admissible.
Your Committee feels that under the provisions of our Constitution the accused was found guilty upon evidence which should not
have been received. The Committee therefore offers the following
resolution and recommends its adoption.

L

Brother Geo. L. Jones from the Committee on Grievances, reported as to Trial Record No. 1SS, which had
been referred back to that Committee, as follows:
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom Trial Record N" o. 155 was re-referred
for further investigation respectfully report as follows:

In compliance with the order of the ::\I.". W.". Grand Lodge
we requested the Master and Junior Warden of Doric Lodge N"o.
216 to appear before the Committee, but owing to the fact that the
latter officer is ill, the l\Iaster alone appeared and stated to the Committee that the charges in this record were not preferred at his direction, that he had given the Junior Warden no instructions to prefer
them nor did he request him to do so.
It is the opinion of your Committee that had the Junior Warden
appeared, his statement, if contradicting the record, could not be
considered, and in that respect we call attention to the fact that ia
the charges signed by him and upon which the trial was based he
distinctly stated that he made the charges by direction of the Master
of the Lodge.

220

PlWCJ<~JiJDlXG::l

GRAND LODGJ•; OF CALIFORNIA

221

OF TIJE

Under the circumstanc('s, your Committee presents this supplementary report together with the original report for your action.
Gx:o. L. JoNF.S,

of the Constitution the references to Parts and Articles,
and to make all references directly to Sections by ntunbers, and consent was given by unanimous vote.

CHAS. ALBERT 1\DAMS,

J. P. BERNHARD,
RA:<rDOLPH

V. \VHITDIG,

The consensus of opinion was that the Committee on
(;rievances was legally correct in its conclusion in 'the
above case, but on motion of Brother \\~m. Rhodes Hervey,
the following supplementary report. was presented aJ1(1
adopted by a unanimous vote:
\Vm!REAS, The repurt of the Committee on Grievances and Appeals
in the matter of Trial Record ::\ o. 155 shQws that the charges against
the accused were preferred by the Junior \Varden of Doric Lodge No.
216 by direction of the \Vorshipful :\laster of said Lodge, and that
Doric Lodge tried the accused. That the law requires in such case
that the trial be not had in the Lodge where said charge> arc preferred, The report further shows that the only evidence introduce(!
to snpport the charges consis1cd of a transcript of trial record of the
Superior Court of California in which forum the accused was charged
with a serious offense involving moral turpitude of peculiar vicionsncss and to which he plead guilty.
vVHEREAS, The trial of the accused in Doric Lodge was in contravention of our laws. and such violation of the prescribed procedure
is a proper and sufficient reason for the reversal of any verdict rendered thereby, and the report d said Committee was in conformity
to our law; yet, in consideration of the fact that at any new trial in
this case exactly the same evidence would inevitably be used and the
same verdict rrndcrecl, and that the error committed by Doric Lodge
in this case did net prejudice the rights of the accused, nor do him a
substantial or any injustice, and that the n:rdict of Doric Lodge appears to have heen just and proper; now, therefore be it

ACACIA FRATERNITY.
Brother \\' illiam H. \Yaste introduced the following:
Rcforring to that portion of the Grand Master's address relating
to the desire of the A.cacia Fraternity at the Universities of California
and Stanford to provid<: for its members suitable homes, we believe
that not only at Berkeley but at Palo Alto as well the cause of
Masonry vvould he arlvauced hy encouraging and nurturing the spirit
of our Order among !he stmlent~. particularly those already Masons.
To that rnd, therefore, he it
Rcsohicd, That this Groll(! Lodge approve as most worthy the
desire of the students at the University of California and Stanford
\Jnivcrsity who arc :\Iasons to acquire property and erect thereon
permanent homes and cmnmends such project.

A\NUAL ELECTION OF OJ<FICERS.
The Grand l\Taster announced that the election of
officers for the ensuing year was now in order and named
as tellers Brothers Henry Ascroft, \V m, A. Sherman aml
Joseph 1-L Stevens. The election resulted as follows:
The R. ·. \1V. ·. Benjamin F. Bledsoe, of San Bernardino
Lodg·e ?\o. 348, was unanimously elected Grand Master;
The R.'. \V. '. Albert G, Burnett, of Santa Rosa Lodge
No. 57, was unanimously elected Deputy Grand Master;

Rcso/i1cd, That the action of Doric Lodge in expelling the brother
referred to be and the same is hereby affirmed and the accused 1s
hcrel:y expelled from all the rights and priyiJegcs of ::Vlasonry.

The R. '. \V:. Francis V. Keesling, of California Lodge
No. 1, was unanimously elected Senior Grand \Varden;

The Grand Secretary stated that a new edition of the
hook known as "Constitution and Ceremonies'' will soon
be required, and asked unanimous consent to strike out

The M.'. W:. William P. Filmer, of King Solomon's
Lodge No, 260, was unanimously re-elected Grand
Treasurer;

The W:. \:V illiam Rhodes Hervey, of Pentalpha Lodge
No. 202, was unanimously elected Junior Grand \Varden;

223

PHOCBEDINUS OF Tl!E

GR.\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The V. ·. \V. ·. John \Vhicher, of King David"s Lodge
No. 209, was unanimously re-elected Grand Secretary;

Grand Tyler-George P. Adams, California >: o. 1, San
Francisco.

The v.·. vV .·. Thos. J. Baker, of union Lodge No. 58,
was unanimously re-elected Grand Lecturer.

The Grand Officers excepting the Grand Orator, the
Assistant Grand Secretary, Grand :\Tarsha!, the Junior
Grand Deacon and the Grand Pursuivant were then duly
installed in their several stations and places by Grand 1\1aster John D. :\T urphey, assisted by Past Grand :\faster Dana
R. Weller as :\faster of Ceremonies.

222

By order of the Grand :\laster the Grand Secretary
read the list of officers appointed by the Graml :\faster
elect as follows :
Grand Chaplain-John D. Hanna, Ashlar No. 306,
Colton;
Grand Urator-:\[att S. Hughes, Pasadena;
Assistant Grand Secretary-Harry S. Johnson, San
Francisco 1\ o. 360, San Francisco;
Grand :\larshal-\ V illiam Kettner, San Diego No. 35,
San Diego;
Grand Standard Bearer-David J. Reese, San Buena
Ventura .:\o. 214, Ventura;
Grand Sword Bearer-Horace V. Ley, North Star .:\o.
91, Ft. Jones;
Grand Dible Dearer-John P. Jarman, San Jose ~ o. 10,
San Jose;
Senior Grand Deacon-Jam es C. Pottle, Las Palmas i\ o.
366, Fresno;
Junior Grand Deacon-Joseph H. Stephens, Sacramento-No. 40, Sacramento;
Senior Grand Steward-Major S. Cook, El Centro No.
384, El Centro;
Junior Grand Steward-Clarence A. Berry, l\[okelumne
Hill No. 298, l\Tokelumne Hill;
Grand l'ursuivant-Charles H. Ritchie, Ocean Park No.
369, Ocean Park;
Grand Organist-Samuel D. ]\[ayer, California No. 1,
San Francisco;

A very pleasing feature of the installation of the Grand
Master was the presentation on behalf of the Southern
California Past :\fasters· "\ssociation of a gavel suitably
inscribed, the head of said gavel being made from a piece
of fossil bone from the Rancho La Brea, where excavations
are being made under the direction of the Board of Governors of the l\I useum of 1-1 istory, Science and Art of Los
Angeles. "The head of the gavel is unique in character
and existed in life long before there was any trace of
human life on this Coast. ] t is from the caudal vertebra
of the giant ground sloth, perhaps one of the most striking
animals in aprearance from the asphalt beds. During the
Pleistocene Period, some two hundred thousand years ago,
this species roamed in great numbers in South America,
reaching the southern part of the United States during the
above mentioned period. He was among the heavyweights,
for he must have tipped the scales at about 4000 pound-;.
The tail of which this vertebra was a part acted as a third
leg when he rose to tower above his kind."
The newly installed Crand :\[aster responded in his
usual eloquent way, expressing his full appreciation of thus
being remembered by his brethren in the south, all of which
was received with great applause.
The retiring· Grand ]\[aster was presented with a solid
silver service by Past Cran cl 1\ Taster Dana R. \Veller.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

224

The Grand -:\faster announced the appointment of
standing committees for the following year as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ritual:

Library:

T. J. Baker,
Edw. H. Hart,
D, R. Weller.

Edwin L. Forster,
Ben Levi,
Chas. Lindell,
Eric J. Segerstron,
Francis F. Marshall.

STAXDING COMJ\IITTEES.

Jurisprudence:
Frank M. Angellotti,
Wm. S. Wells,
Chas. L. Patton,
Dana R. Well er,
John D. Murphey.
Gricz•anccs:
Chas. A. Adams,
Jos. P. Bernhard,
Geo. L. Jones.
R. V. Whiting,
Walter F. Haas.
Finance:
George F. Roddrn,
John H. Bean,
Ralph Lowe,
W. B. Jeffries,
W. A. Sherman.
Crcdc11tials:
J. :-.!. Hall,
F. C. l\Iulkcy,
F. L. Arbogast,
Robert B. Gaylord,
Leonard A. Cowles.
Accounts:
Hugh J. Owen,
E. E. Conn,
D. E. F. Easton,
Wm. B. Cameron,
Fred B. Wood.

Blldow111c11t Co11llllittce of Jlaso11ic
Homes:
'.\Iotley H. Flint,
Samuel E. Burke,
James H. McLaffcrty,
Geo. l\I. Perine,
B. B. Tuttle,
Chas. \V. Nutting,
Frank J. Towne,
John L. l\fitchell,
Theodore J. Milliken.

225

Trustee of J\Jasonic Home:
E. B. Spencer,
Wm. S. Wells,
Elmer E. Stone,
Motley H. Flint,
Thos. Flint.

At 1 :00 o'clock all business being now corn pleted, the
Grand Lodge was closed.

BENJA:\IIN F. BLEDSOE,
Grand -:\laster.
Returns:
J\. A. Roscnshinc,
Fred W. Vincent.
Geo. W. Le Moin,
A. S. Crites,
R. A. Goodcell.

C orrcspo11dc11cc:
Edw. H. Hart,
Harry Leland,
Chas. Chaquettc,
\Vm. F. Blake,
Edmond Bond.

J'ay of J1 embers:
Bradford \Vehstcr.
H. D. Kercheval,
Amos Stevens,
Hugh H. l\IcKcvitt,
James A. Stone.

JOHN vVHICHER,
Grand Secretary.
/

226

L

MOURNl;s'G PAGEi:> OF THE

Jn a~mnriam.

Jn 11.emnriam.

CHARLES THOMAS BARTON, P. M.
Tehama Lodge, No. cl. .......... Died June 2i}, 1914, aged 51

~anta !'rn:c Lodge, :Xo. ::JS ..... Died April 12, 1914, aged ;59

ROBERT EDWARD RUNDELL, P. M.
Tuolumne J_,odgc, No. 8 ....... Died .Tanuary 7, 1914, aged 56

JOSEPH WILCOXSON HUGHES, P. M.
Saerarneuto
:\o. 40 .... Died ::Xfanh 2-1, 191+, aged 53

JOHN GEORGE MacLELLAN, P. M.
Corinthian Lodge, No. 9........ Diml October 1, 1913, aged

HUGH PUGH EDWARDS, P. M.
l\fartinez Lodge, No. -I 1... Died Dercmher li, 1913, ager1 --

ANDREW JACKSON HULL, P. M.
Yount Lodge, No. 12 .......... Died April 20, 1914, aged 67

JAMES UNDERHILL SPENCE, P. M.
Suisun Lodge :S-o. ;).') ............... Dier1 May 19, 1914, aged

DANIEL STERLING KYSER, P. M.
Yount Lodge, No. 12 ............... Died l\fay 8, 1914, aged 62

JAMES HENRY FERGUSON, P. M.
Fnion Lo'1ge "No. 5S
..... Died l'vfareh 4, 1914, aged 62

RASMUS PETERSEN ROSSEN, P. M.
Nevada Lodge, No. 13 ........ Dicd Febrnary l'i, Hl14, aged 54

Natoma

GEORGE TURNER HESSER, P. M.
No. 6-1.. .. Died September 22, 1914, aged 50

MATTHEW WHILKIN ARGALL, P. M.
Madison Lodge, No. 2;L ..... Died August 19, 1913, aged 6-1-

JOSEPH B. FREITAS, P. M.
Morning Star Lodge No. !18 ...... Died June G, 1914, aged 67

DETLEF HANSEN, P. M.
Trinity Lodge, No. 27 ............... Died May 11, 1914. :i.J.!;ed 79

WILLIAM CASEY, P. M.
CalavernR Lodge', "No. 7S .... Died November 8, 1913, aged 7;5

JOHN HAENNY, P. M.
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32 ...........Died April 27, 1914-, aged iO

ROBERT HOOD, P. M.
Naval Lo<lgt', 1\"o. Si ........... Died August 4, 1913, aged -

PETER PIERCE PERRY, P. M.

....

228

L

MOL'HNJNG PAGES· OF THE

GlL'l.NU LODGE OF CALlFOHNIA

3Ju !lrmnriam.

3Ju !lrmnriam.

DAVID R. RICHIE, P. M.
Rt. Helena Lodge, No. 9il .. Died November 24, 191:l, aged.

EDWARD FRANCIS LEONARD, P. M.
Ptccific L°'1ge, Xo. l:lG ........... Died J\Iarch l, J9H, agcc1 58

MARCUS FAYETTE INMAN, P. M.
Rt. Helena Lodge No. fl:L ...... Died June 24, 1914, age<l ... .

ROBERT CHARLES MEYERS, P. M.
Crockett Lodge, No. 1:19 .. Died J\io\·ember 23, Hll:l, agec1 ;;9

JAMES WATERWORTH, P. M.
.Jefferson T~oclge Xo. 9i ...... Died November i, 1914, agctl ...

GEORGE HOWARD THOMPSON, P. M .
Orient.al Lodge No. 144 .... Tliecl September 9, 19J:l, aged 18

ROBERT GRACEY, P. M.
Yosemite Lodge, Xo. 99 .. Dietl September 24, 191:1, aged ....

JOHN HATFIELD GRAY, P. M.
Oriental Lodge, No. lH ............. Died .Jnly 2:i, HlH, aged 80

NILS JORGEN WILLIAM JORGENSON, P. M.
Rumrnit Lo(1ge, No. 112 .......... Died :March 16, 1914, aged 1.1

MAURICE HIRSCH, P. M.
Abell Lodge, No. H6 ...... Died September 3, 1913, aged 30

LEVI NUTTALL, P. M.
C'oneonl Lodge Xo. l 1i ...... Died January 26, HlH, aged 52

EDWARD WARREN KING, P. M.
Abell Lodgt', Xo. H6 ......... Died January 11, 1914, aged Sil

ROBERT DAY, P. M.
F'idelity Lodge, Xo. 120 ..... Died .lanuary 8, 1914, aged 68

JOHN SIMPSON, P. M.
Molino Lodge, No. 150 ........ Died .January 18, 1914, aged ... .

WALLACE ALEXANDER WISE, P. M.
Fidelity Lodge, No. 120 ........... Died April 9, 1914, agea 4G

JOHN WILLIAM CAMERON, P. M.
Excelsio1· Lodge, Xo. 166 .... Died Febrnary 2, 1914, nged 41

FREDERICK W. WARD, P. M.
Visalia Lodge, No. 128 ........... Died

RICHARD HERRING, P. M.
Mission Lodge, No. 169 ........ Died October 26, 1913, aged 71

:VlOTTRNlNG PAGI~S OF THE

230

GRAND LODGl'J OF CALIFORNIA

Alu tlrmnrtam.

;tu :!lrmnriam.
JAMES McDONALD, P. M.
South t:l. F. Lodge, No. 212 .. Died Dl1C. 26, lfl13, age<l 62

GEORGE HENRY MITCHELL, P. M.
Enning Star Lodge, No. 186 .. Died October, 1913, nge<l --··

JOHN N. HILLER, P. M.
Santa Barbara Lodge, Xo. 192 .. Died April 24, 1914, agerl lfi

CRAWFORD WOODS, P. M.
Hartley Lodge, No. rnfl__
____ Died May 22, lfl1cl, nged 81

FRANCIS HOUGHTON, P. M.
Xew,·ille T,odge, Xo. 20;) ........ Dicd 6dober 4, Hll:I, agerl 7G

RUFUS G. BURROWS, P. M.
New\·ille Lodge, Ko. 20.J..Died NoYember 13, 191.3, nge<l

JOHN ADOLPH STEINBECK, P. M.
San Benito, Lodge No. 21L .. Died August 10, 1913, aged 82

NASH CORWITH BRIGGS, P. M.
San Benito Lodge, No. 211..Died Sept. 14, 1913, aged 7:3

FRANCIS JOSEPH TITUS, P. M.
San Benito Lodge, Ko. 211.. ... Died April 14, 1914, aged 72

JOHN ALEXANDER, P. M.
South S. F. Lodge, No. 212 ...... Dicd ..................................... ..

WILLIAM CURLETT, P. M.
Doric Lodge, No. 216 ....... Died .fanuary 21, 1914, aged

~fo8aie

JOHN ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, P. M.
Brook Jyn Lodge, No. 225 ....... Died April 23, 1914, aged 63

THOMAS BALDWIN RIPLEY CRANDELL, P. M.
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 22:L ......... Died May 22, Hl14, aged 73

THEODORE HENRY HATCH, P. M.
Brooklyn Lodge, :S-o. 22!L ..... Died March 12, 101±, aged So

FRANK BENJAMIN WIRE, P. M.
AthcnH Lodge, No. 228 ........ Died October 26, 1913, aged 50

JEREMIAH BOND, P. M.
.Janesville Lodge, No. 232 ...... Died .fan. 14, H!14, aged "71

\

··-------------

. -~·-------

-

FRANCIS RENOLLO FASSETT, P. M.
Lodge, No. 218 ...... Dicd J"anuary 5, 191.J-, aged 68

231

GHAND LODGE OF Cc\LlFORNlA

232

lftt :!lrmnriaut.

lftt flrmnriatu.
GEORGE HENRY CROW, P. M.
Hill8 Ferry Lodg,•, Xo. 2:HL .... Die(l No\·. :lO, 19Ul, aged 54

JOHN AUGUSTUS STRATTON, P. M.
Hill8 Perry Lo<lgP, J'\o. 2:Ili ...... Died .Tan. 1;;, 1914, aged .36

JOSEPH BYRON STANTON, P. M.
Coh18a IJodge, No. 2HL ... Dic<l Fehrnary 21, Hil4,

iS

JAMES WILLIAM TOWNER, P. M.
Santa Ana Lodge, ~\fo. :!4L ... Died NoY. J:l, 1913, aged 90

FRANK GARCELON, P. M.
Pomona Lo<lge, No. 21!L ......... Dietl .Tune 24, 19H, aged 66

GEORGE HYDE KELSEY, P. M.
En1rgrccn Lo(lgc, No. 26!1 .... Diecl :Vforch Ii, ]!)14, aged !JG

WILSON BYRON RUSSELL, P. M.
En1rgr(•t>n Lollge, No. 2:39 ..... llied Sept. ii, J!lD, aged 73

EDWARD D. HOLTON WEBB, P. M.
En•rgree11 J,odge, No. 2;ifL ... Dicd Sept. 22, 191'3, ngcd GIJ

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN JELLISON, P. M.
King Solomon 'A J,odge, No. 260 .. Died Oct. 18, 1913, aged 72

CHARLES LOUIS PETER MARAIS, P. M.
Kiug Solornon 's L.odgP, :'.'Jo. 2GO .. Died Feb. J, HlH, aged Gl

JAMES F. EARL, P. M.
Lompoe Lodgt', No. 2G2 ........ Died :Mar('h JG, lfJH, t1ged 83

JAMES W. GRAHAM, P. M.
Lornpoe Lo1lgc, Ko. ::003_ .......... Die<l .J nne !), 19H, agd 6±

JAMES H. McGEE, P. M.
Lompor Lo<lge, No. 2G'L .... Died December Ji, Hl13, aged 71

HENSON POLAND, P. M.
Lornpoc Lodge, l'>o. 2G2 ... __ J)ied Kov. 13, 1913, aged 7G

SAMUEL C. McCLAUGHEY, P. M.
Galt Lodge, Ko. 2G'i ________ Died NoYmnlJcr 7, 191:1, aged 77

JOHN G. RAE, P. M.
Galt Lodge, No. 2G7 .... _.. Died October 2!, Hl13, aged 87

CARLOS REUBEN LORD, P. M.
Durant I~o•lge, No. 2G8 .. ___________ ... Died May 27, 1914, aged 82

ISAAC JOHNSON RENNOLDS, P. M.
Anchor Lodge, Ko. 213 .. ____ Died .January 18, 1914, aged 51

\

233

234

MOlJRNING PAGES OF THE

GRAND LODGE 01~ CALIFORNIA

3Jn ilrmnrhtm.

3Jn ilrmnriam.

CARL LAUX, P. M.

HERMAN SIL VER, P. M.
West Gate Lodge, No. 3:l•i ..... Died Aug. 18, Ull3, aged 83

Ho. ('alifornia T,o(lge, No. 278 .. Died Apr. Hi, 1914 1 aged 71

FRANK A. KIMBALL, P. M.

HENRY CONNELL ALLEN, P. M.
Sau Fernando Lodge, No. :1-13 ... Died Pcb. 2:1, 1014, aged ....

Ho11th West LodgP, No. 283 ...... Died Ang. 11 1 11J13, nged 81

JOHN THOMPSON, P. M.
Snn l\Tignl'l Lodge, :.Jo. 285 .... Died Feb. 22, 1914, aged 72

JOHN BURR, P. M.
Sau fernando Lo<lge, No. 343 ..Died Sept. 20, llll:I, aged·

MYRON HOLLY BROOKS, P. M.

DAVID SAMUEL HIRSHBERG, P. M.

Paso Robles Lo<lge, No. 286 ..... Died April 2\:1, 1914, aged 58

ARTHUR EDWARD DRAPER, P. M.
Santa Paula Lodge, No. 291.. .... Died Dee. 6, 1913, aged 33

ROBERT NEWTON HUTCHINSON, P. M.
S:rnta Paufa Lodge, No. 29\,... Died Dec. 23, 1913, aged 44

JOHN HALL ORCUTT, P. M. ,
Santa Paula I,odge, No. 291.. .... Died Sept. 9, 1913, aged 6!l

JAMES PINKERTON McALLISTER, P. :M.
Sonth elate T,odge No. 320 ........ Died May 27, 1914, aged

NATHAN DAVID ELLIS, P. M.
\Vhittier I,odge, No. 323 ...... Died Dec. 15, 1913, aged ....

l::itarr King Lodge, Ko. :.144 ..... Died NoY. 21, 191il, aged ..

11

JOHN M'INTYRE MORRISON, P. M.
:Md<:i·nJey Lodge, No. :Hi ...... Died Nov. ll, l!ll:l, agerl 42

SYLVANUS RAYNOR WADE, P. M.
Charity Lodge, No. 362 ...... Died Sept. 28, 191;1, aged 71

AUGUST LEWIS ZETT, P. M.
Amity Lodge, J\o. 370 ..... Vied NoYCmber J, lBJ:-l, aged -t3

WILLIAM HENRY GOETZ, P. M.
Oceanie Lodge, No. :nL.. Died December 11, 1913, aged 42

HENRY BUSSE, P. M.
Elysim 1 Lo1lgl', 1\o. -tlR ............. DiPd May ii, 1!ll4, age<\ GO

\

235

~;}:"""""~~"

'

N

I ... IST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

(;>

0-

With date of Charters. Fees. Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31. A. L. 5914.

~runes oi Lodge~.

Piaecs

,,;
~

Datt! when Ct1arter

"°::!E

Town.

z
1

2

:i

4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
H
15
6

17
18

19
20
21
22
2il
24

q-

,c;)

California ...... .
Wes tern Star .... .
'l'ehama ........ .
Benicia ........ .
'fuolurnne
Corinthian ..... .
u.
San Jose ....... .
........... Santa Clara ....... .
Yount .......... .
.
. ........ , .... Napa .............•
Nevada ........ . 13::Nevac1a City ....... Nevada ........... .
Temple ......... . l·!'Sonoma ............ Sonoma ........... .
Eureka ......... . 16 Auburn ........... 1 Plaeer ............ .
Parfaite Union .. 17 San Francisco ...... San Francis~o .... .
);fountain Shade .. 18 Downil'ville ........ 1jSierra ........... .
San Joaquin ..... . 19 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ....... .
Wasliington ..... . 20jSaeramento ........ ISacrai;r:cnto ....... .
Hawaiian ...... . 21 Honolulu, IL T ...... Hawanan Ter ...... .
Occidental ...... . 22 San Prancisco ....... 1San Prancisco ..... .
Madison ........ . 23 Grass Valley ....... !Nevada .......... ..
J\fariposa ....... . 2(Mariposa .......... -.Mariposa ......•..
Georgetown .... . 2~[Ueorget~1wn ........ ,'.E;I Dorado ......... .
Palmyra ........ . 2b Plaeerv1lle ......... El Dorado ......... .
'I'rini ty ........ ..
verville ........ ·Trinity ........... .
Gol<len Gate .... .
Prancisco ...... 1 San J!'rancisco ..... .
Gold Hill ....... .
Jin ........... Placer ............ .
33,l\furphy's ........... Calaveras ......... .
•

wa~

Comity.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

.J..

JJQ,

.............. .

'

1

1

1

·I

·I

,,,,

;.

I.nea ti on.

26 San Diego ...•..• 35 San Diego .•...... San Diego ..•....•.
27 St. John's ...... . 37 Yreka .............. Siskiyou .......... .
28 Santa Cruz ..... . 38 1Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz ........ .
29 Yuba •.......... 39 Marysville ......... Yuta ............. .
30 Sacramento ..... . 40 Sacramento ..•..... Sacramento •.......
31 Martinez .......• 41 Martinez ........... Contra Costa ...... .
32 Los Angeles ..... 42 J,os Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
33 Hiram ......•... 43 El Dorado .......... El Dorado ....... .
34 Mount Moriah ... 44 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .... .
35 Creseent •....... 45 Crescent City ....... Del Norte ......•.
36 Texas ........••• 46 San Juan ........•. San Benito .....••.
37 Forbcstown •..•.• 50 Forbestown ........ Butte .••..........
51 Colfax ............• Plaeer •.•.........
38 Illinoistown
39 Suisun .......•.. 5.5 Suisun ...........•. Solano ........... .
40 Voleano ........• 56 1 Volcano ...........• :Amador .......... .
41 Santa Rosa ....•• 571Santa Rosa ......... Sonoma .......... .
42 Union •.....•••.. 53,Sacramento ........ Sacramento ••.•...
43 Gravel Range ... 59jCamptonville •.•.... Yuba ...•.•.......
44 Plumas ••.......• 60:Quincy ..•......... Plumas .......... .
45 Live Oak •....... 6ll0aklanc1 ............ Alameda ...•.•.•..
1
46 Geo. Washington .• 62, Chinese Camp ••.... Tuolumne ...••••..
47 Natoma ........ . 64 Folsom •.•..•......• Sacramento ..•....
48 Amador .....•... 65,Jackson ............ Amador .•.........
49 Forest ......... . 66IA11eghany .......... Sierra .•.......•.•
50 Morning Star .... . 68':Stockton ........... Stockton •.........
51 Enterprise ...... . 70jYuba City ......... 1Sutter .......... ..
52 Bear Mountain .. . 76,Angel 's Camp ...... Calaveras •..•.....
78 San Andreas ...•... Calaveras ........ .
53 Calaveras ...... ..
M Humboldt ...... . 79,Eureka ............ Humboldt •...•.•..
5,5 Ione .....•.....• 80 Tone .....•......... Amador ......... .
56 Yolo .......•.... 81 Yolo ............... Yolo ............. .
57 Rising Star ...... . 83 Porest Hill ......... \Plaeer •........•..
58 Vesper ......... . 84 Reel Bluff .......... Tehama •.•........
59 Naval .......•... 87 Vallejo ............ Solano ...•.......
60 Rose's Bar ...... . 89'1s~artsvillc ......... ,Y.nb~ .........•..•
61 North Star ..... . 91 Fort Jones ......... ·Slsk1you ...•.•....
62 Acacia ......... . 92 Coloma •..•........ 1El Dorado ....•...

~"'

Ordf:re1L

t

J1
1850.

"
"
Nov.

27,

"

"

"
May
"
"

Nov.
May

"

"
"
"
"

,,"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

""
"

"
"
"
"
"
July
May

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

0

132
.,.,
l _.,

l;lJ
~

tJ

H

z

5,

1852.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

i7
'.?\18

(fl

15U
:.Hl

0
"1

ii-15

":]

1853.

] ;~;)

"7,

rn.t

]():!
7J

"

4:!

3,

tJ

0

trJ

::r.:
trJ

..

..,,,,

(.

()
(j

1853.
1854.

"

1,
8,

1855.
1856.

"

"
"

"
"
"
"

t"'

0

.'}] !J

"
"
"
"
"
5,
"
3,
"
" "
"4, "
"
3,
"
"
"2, 1855.
"
"
" "
" "
" "
"
"
"3, "
"
2,
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"4, "

"

t.TJ

,)()

"
"
"

"

>

":]

1811

"

7,

J()[)
~n

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

q

11;')

42·!

"

"

220

"
1851,
"
"

"
"
6,
"

May
May

(j'

0
'=J
(fl

"
6,
"

20,
lJ,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

;)/'ii
8fl

"
"
"

"
"

w

H

"
"
"

"
"

48
52

437
112
228
\)]

171)
88
48:l
30

346
74
28
:~2

07
106

28
260
243
32

~
>
z
tJ
t"'
0
tJ

f)()7

0
t'.l
0
"'.I

77

>

76
40

'=i
0

238

;ti

152
8\1
72
316
54

z

>

6\)

.•
4,,

a

~

43
4\)

164
380

58
.'i3

22

w

(...>

....,t

.....

====~~~~~~

"""J"""""'""""'==========::11:!!!!11:!!!1i:=:~~~~,,,;=====================:1===---:;=:----~-~~-~~o~-

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continned.

N

'-"
00
Places of Location.

u.l

Karnes of Lodges

$....

2 ,I

~a ;!

Town.

u:i

c ~

:....

County.

I t;.S.;

1

1

Date when Charter
, '; bCi I ;.;
was Ordered..!
;
[ <'i

~
H
~

,..,;,
~§
,,:g ~

&~ ~IE I !j;: [ ..-.::.

~~~~~.~~~--~~~~~~~~~~--'-~~~~~~~~--'-~~~~~~~~---'~~~---'-~-

~

if.

>-3

63
64
65

St. Helena ....... 931 St. Helena ......... Napa .. . . . . . . . . . . . . May
8, 1856
Henry Clay ...... 95/Sutter Creek ........ Amador .. . . . . .. . . ..
"
"
"
Howard . . .. . .. . . 96 Yreka . . .. . . . . .. . . . Siskiyou .. .. .. . . . . .
"
"
"
66 Jefferson ........ 97 La Porte ........... Plumas . . . . . . . . . .. .
"
"
"
67 Hornitos ......... 98 Hornitos ........... [Mariposa .. . . .. . . . ..
"
"
"
68 Y osemi tc . . . . . . . . 99 Merced ........... · [Merced . . . . . . . . . . . .
"
"
"
69 Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . .
"
"
"
70 Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ............ Butte .. . . .. . .. . .. ..
"
"
"
71 Lexington ....... 104 El Monte .......... Los Angeles . . . . . .. .
"
15,
"
72 Arcata .......... 106 Arcata ............. Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . May
14, 1857.
73 Pajaro .......... llO Watsonville ........ Santa Cruz . . .. .. .. .
"
"
"
74 Chico ........... lll Chico .............. Butte . . . . . . . . . . .. ..
"
"
"
75 Summit ......... ll2 Knight's Ferrv ..... Stanislaus . . . . . . . . ..
"
"
"
76 Eden ............ ll3 San Leandro : ...... Alameda . . . . . . . . . . .
"
"
"
77 Concord ......... 117 Sacramento ........ Sacramento . . . . . . . .
"
15,
"
78 Clinton .......... 119 Igo ................ Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . May
13, 1858.
7!J Fidelitv ......... 120 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . . . . . .
''
''
''
80 Alamo· ...... ·- .... 122 \Yalnut Creek ...... Contra Costa . . . . . . .
"
"
"
81 Sotoyome ........ 123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . .
"
"
"
R2 Table Mountain ... 124 Cherokee ........... Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
"
"
"
83 La Fayette ...... 126 Sebr ·topol ......... Sonoma .. .. .. .. .. ..
"
"
"
84 Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . . . . . . May
13, 1858.
85 Visalia .......... 128 Visalia ............. Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May 14, 1859.
86 Nicolaus ......... 129 Wheatland ......... Yuba .. . . . . . .. . .. . .
"
13,
"
87 Woodbridge ...... 131 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin . . . . . . .. May
13, 1859.
"
"
"
88 Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville ......... Plumas .. .. . .. .. . . .
89 Vacaville ........ 134 Vacaville . : ........ Solano . .. .. . . .. .. . .
"
"
"

Valley ......•.... 135 Linden •..••..••.••• San Joaquin .••.•.. May
Pacific .......... 136 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•....
"
92 Crockett ......... 139 San Francisco •..... San Francisco ...•..
Sonoma
............
"
93 Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale
"
94 Grafton ......... 141 Grafton ............ Yolo
May
Sacramento
........
95 Franklin ........ 143 Courtland ..........
San
Francisco
......
"
96 Oriental ......... 144 San Francisco ......
"
97 Vitruvius ....... 145 Bloomfield .......... Sonoma ............
.........
Mendocino
"
98 Abell ........... 146 Ukiah ............. ;
Humboldt . .........
99 Eel River ........ 147 Fortuna ...........
May
Lassen
100 Lassen .......... 149 ;Susan ville .......... Tehama ............
"
101 Molino .......... 150 Tehama ............ Yolo ............... May
102 \V'oodland ........ 146 Woodland ..........
Calaveras
..........
"
103 Keystone ........ 161 Milton .............
............. Oct.
104 Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City ......... Sierra
San
Francisco
......
"
105 }~xcelsior ........ 166 San Francisco ...... Alameda ...........
........
"
106 Alameda ......... 167 Centerville
San Mateo .........
"
107 Redwood City ... 168 Redwood City ...... San Francisco ......
"
108 Mission .......... Hi!l San Francisco ...... Sacramento
Oct.
109 Elk Grove ....... 173 Elk Grove .......... Amador ............
"
llO Drytown ......... 174 Plymouth .......... Contra Costa .......
Oct.
111 Antioch ......... 17:5 Antioch .....•...•.• San Bernardino .....
112 Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino •.... Mendocino
"
113 Mendocino ...... 179 Mendocino .......... Sonoma ............
"
114 Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma .......... Sonoma ............
"
115 Russian River ... 181 Windsor
Oct.
Colusa .............
116 Meridian ........ 182 Arbuckle .......... Lake ..............
"
117 Clear Lake ...... 183 Lower Lake .......• Sierra .............
"
118 Sierra Valley .... 184 Sie.rra ville ......... Mendocino .........
"
ll9 Claiborne ........ 185 Pornt Arena .......• Siskiyou ...........
"
120 Evening Star .... 186 Etna Mills .........
Oct.
Santa Clara ........
121 Keith ........... 187 Gilroy ............. Alameda ...........
"
122 Oakland ......... 188 Oakland .... ······· Shasta ............. Oct.
123 Northern Light .. 190 Millville ...........
Marin .............
"
124 Marin ........... 191 San Rafael ......... Santa Barbara .....
"
125 Santa Barbara ... 192 San ta Barbara .....
Ol't .
126 Ferndale . . . . . . . . 193 .Ferndale . . . . . . . . . .• Humboldt ..........
90
IH

,,,,

.........

"

...............

.............

"

........

.........

...........

"

11,
10,

"
"
"
16,
"
"
"
17,

1860.

"
"
"
"
1861.
"

"
"
"
15, 1862.
"
"
14, 1863.
"
"
13, 1864.
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"13, 1865.
"
"12, 1865.
ll,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
10, 1867.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15,
"

15,

"

14,

:io
lf
!J
40 ...... [
50
11 ()6
:;o
6
(j
30
5j
6
00 ...... I (j
00 .... ..
(j
50
51 12
40
1
6
i50
3
(j
50 10[
!)
50 20[
50
5
6
50 2,Y:; I 1291
75 10
:io 5,1 6ur
100 101 12!
50 .... ..
50
5j
61
G,
50
l
6[
40 ......
6
7.5 10 121
.50
8
I
!ll
,50
5
61
30 ...... /
61
80
.5
80 .... ..
1

' 30 ······

7.5
5
75
5
80 ......
30
.5
50
1
7.5 10
:10
1
50
.5

~gl'''''i
~gl .....1
8012.Y:;
30
5
100: IO
.sol 2
50
1
100]
5
501 10
40 ......
50
.5
.sol 8
:30 ......
.5
.50[
80,
1
.soi 1
80] ....
801'""'
80 ......

1868.

"

~g1·····i

"
1868.

50,
851

"
"

1869.

1
8

,5°\" ....

.50 ......
50 ......

95
G2
84
45
:-lO
121
(i5
188
78
11 G

1:n
2li
2!)

182

114
48
5:-l6
74
180
64
138
205
152
71
90

~I

132

6
9
12
6
6

41
638
415
51
29

{j

"
864
57
182
ll8
101
G6
177
26
12
399
102
127

12
{j

6
6
6
6
{j

12
6
12
12
12
12
6
9
(j

6
{j

6
6
6
6
6
12
6
9
12
[6
12
6
9

0
"'1
U1

;:3

0

:::J

t:

3

>-3

ts
'-'

0
0
l?l

.'Ji.

0

""'.

>-3

::c:

l".l

4il

{j"

su:1
68
2.5
101
23::;
B2
216
82
46
27
8:i
.50
8L
118
567
77
224
152
94

0

:ll

1>

z
t1
t:"'
0

t1
0
l".l
0

>zj
('}

!'.'.;
~
>zj

0

;::J

z
s:

..,,
V>
'°

""""'""""'""""'...~~.......~~...--~~~~~--~~~...................""""'"""""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'~""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'l:="""""""""""'"""""'""'~~~""'""'~""'"""""'""'""'""'"'--~-=-=~=-==-..=----==~~.____..,._~¥~

Li8t of the SulJordinate Lodge8, etc.-Continued.
Places of Location.

...ui

Names of Lodges.

E

::I

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
l
1
1
1

1
1

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

1
1
1

1
1
1

,,,

,..,;

<D

Date when Charter
was Ordered.

.0

z

Town.

County.

I

Mountain View .. 194 Mountain View ..••• Santa Clara ........
Buckeye ......... 195 Winters
Yolo ...............
San Simeon ..... 196 Cambria ........... San Luis Obispo ....
Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington
Los Angeles ........
Hartley .......... 199 Lakeport
Lake
Truckee ......... 200 Truckee
Nevada ............
Silveyville ....... 201 Dixon
Solano
········
.
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles .......• Los Angeles ........
Confidence ....... 203 Castroville
Monterey
Salinas .......... 204 Salinas
Monterey
Newville . . . . . . . . 205 Paskenta ............ Tehama .............
Stanislaus ....... 206 Modesto
Stanislaus
Anaheim ......... 207 Anaheim
Orange ............•
··········
Rio Vista . . . . . . . 208 Rio Vista ........... Solano
.......
King David . . . . . 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis
Obispo .....
Friendship ....... 210 San Jose .........•• Santa Clara •.......
San Benito ...... 211 Hollister
.. ········· San Beui to .........
So.*3an Francisco. 212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
San Buenaventura 214 Ventura
.... Ventura
Oak Grove ...... 215 Alameda
Alameda
Doric ............ 216 San Fran~i~~~. : : : : . · 1 San Fran~i~~~. : : : : : :
Monterey ........ 217 Monterey .......... Monterey ..........
Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore .......... Alameda ...........
Speranza Italiana. 219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
Downey ......... 220 Downey ............ Los Angeles ........
Inyo ............ 221 Independence ....... Inyo .
Granite .......... 222 Rocklin ............ Placer

···········
........
..........
. ···········
············
·········
············
. ··········
.

········

..............
.....
..........
··········
········ ..
······

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
············ "
"
"
"
Oct.

..............
·············

Bakersfield ....... 224 Bakersfield ......... Kern ............. .
Brooklyn ........ 225 East Oakland ....... Alameda .......... .
San Mateo ...... 226 San Mateo ......... San Mateo ........ .
Athens .......... 228 Davis ............. Yolo .............. .
Solano .......... 229 Vallejo ............. Solano ............ .
North Butte ..... 230 Gridley ............ Butte ............. .
Covelo ........... 231 Covelo ............. Mendocino ........ .
Janesville ....... 232 Janesville .......... Lassen ............ .
Calistoga ........ 233 Calistoga ........... Napa ............. .
Hope ............ 234IBeckwith .......... Plumas ........... .
Surprise Valley .. 2351 Cedarville .......... IModoc ............ .
Hill's Ferry ..... 236\Newman ···········1Stanislaus ........ ..
166 Guadalupe ....... 237 Guadalupe ......... Santa Barbara .... .
167 Colusa ........... 2±0 Colusa ............. Colusa ............ .
168 Santa Ana ....... 241 Santa Ana ......... Orange ....•........
169 Magnolia ........ 242 Santa Barbara ...... Santa Barbara ..... .
170 Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards .......... Alameda .......... .
171 Alea traz ......... 244 West Oakland ...... Alameda .......... .
172 Laurel ........... 24i5 ·willows ............ Glenn ............. .
173 Pomona ......... 246 Pomona ............ Los Angeles ....... .
174 Fresno .......... 247 Fresno ............. Fresno ............ .
175 Alturas ......... 248 !Alturas ............ Modoc ............ .
176 Adin ............ 250 Adin .............. Modoc ............ .
177 Bodie ........... 252 Bodie .............. Mono ............. .
178 Landmark ....... 253 IMadison ........... Yolo ............. .
179 Reading ......... 254 Redding ........... Shasta ............ .
180 \Velcome ........ 255 Lemoore ........... Tulare ............ .
181 Lodi ............ 2561 Lodi ......•....... San Joaquin ....... .
182 Penrhyn ......... 258 Penryn ............ Placer ............ .
18if Evergreen ....... 259 Riverside .......... Riverside ......... .
184 King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco . . . . . San Francisco ..... .
185 Tuscan .......... 261 Williams ........... Colusa ............ .
186 Lompoc ......... 262 Lompoc ............ Santa Barbara .... .
187 Hesperian ....... 264 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara .... .
1815 Orland .......... 265 Orland ............. Glenn ............. .
189 North East ...... 266 Fort Bidwell ....... Modoc ............ .
190 Galt ............. 267 1Galt ................ Sacramento ....... .

154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165

N

+
0

1,

"
"
"
"

181 -

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

14,
14,

1869.
1870.

"
"

"

"

"
"
14,
"

"

"
"

"

1871.

"

14,

1871.

"
"
"

"
"
"

11,

1872.

"
"
"

"
"
"

Oct.

18,

1873.

"

"
"
"
"
"
16,
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"

"
"
Oct.

"
"

Oct.

14,
12,

"

"

"

"

"
"

"

1874.

"
"
"
"

"
"
1875.
1876.

"

Oct.
Oct.

12,
11,

1876.
1877.

"

"

"

"

"

Oct.

10,

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"

Oct.

"

"
Oct.

"16,

"
"
"
"

1878.

1879.

"

"
"
"
15,
"

"
"
1880.
"

"

"

"

"

15,
12,

1881.
1882.

"
"

"

11,

"

1883.

0"

~d

cO

... -:;;
-"
a>O.
a:i.~
w~A
"'" ~IE
""'
50 ......
50
5
30 ······
5
50
30 ......
5
60
60
5
75 20
40 ······
40 ......
35
1
50 ......
50 ......
50
1
35
1
50 . .....
30
1
50 ......
50 ......
75
1
100 10
50
5
50 .. ....
/.') 10
30 ......
.50
1
501 275

~I

~

"' ::S:;S'"00
c

.;j" I
6
6
6

1
7

0
'Tl

0

U1

D
6
!J
9
6
6
6

6
4

6
6
6
9
12

3
8

;.,J

l:'::

8

r

9

0

g

2

l.".I

U1

0
'Tl
;.,J

~

t<.I

(l

\)

G
Li

9

12
\)

6

12

302
3.53
141

75

24()
85
4.J.
54

77

s

:)1

6
G'

5\J

n

40
1
30 ..... .

6
6
6
6
!J
12
6
6'
6
6

tmi ..... .

12

80
1
50
5
50 ..... .
30, ..... .

6

50 ......
100 15
50 ..... .
::l5
1
:15
1
50
2
80
5
30 ······

ti

z
:.-

(l

12

::JO ..... .

3

bj

2

12
6
D
12
6
12
12
6
6

;)01
]
:lO
4
50 10
:10
]
50 ......
50 10
50 ..... .
50
1
50
::l
;)01"""
50, ......
50'
51
50
3

::JO

c:::

2

()

12

B

t:

U1
;.,J

751······
50 ······
751 .. ····
50 ......
~01
5
t_)O:······

5o

~oo

"'c

t; 0

]~Ii

47
72
83
310

r

98
375
117
280

t<.I
0
"i

ti
0

321

(l

70
45
:1s

"i
0

46
15:1

86

(i·

820
509
5H
110
218
81
42

6
6

z

0

167

12

:>-

ti

sn

G
6

12
G
6
12

0
:i:J

~

H

:i:J

z>-<

;..

84

3D

N

+
....

J"'

- --

.~--

--

V'

....

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

N

N

-------

Places of Location.

.;
,_,

,_,,,;

C)

Names of Lodires.

.0

II

s
::l
z

Town.

I

County.
-·

191 Durant .......... 268 Berkeley ........... Alameda ...........
192 Olive Branch .... 269 Tulare ............. Tulare . . ..........
193 Snow Mountain .. 271 Stony Ford ........ Colusa .............
194 Pasadena ........ 272 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ........
195 Anchor .......... 273 Compton ........... Los Angeles ........
196 Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo .....
197 Oakdale ......... 275 Oakdale ............ Stanislaus ..........
198 Selma ........... 277 Selma
Fresno . ............
199 Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
200 Hanford ......... 279 Hanford ........... Kings ..............
201 Madera ......... 280 Madera ............ Madera ............
202 Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson .......... Shasta .............
203 Callayomi . . .. .. . 282 Middletown ........ Lake
.............
204 South "\Vest ...... 283 National City ...... San Diego ..........
205 San Miguel ...... 285 San Miguel ........ San Luis Obispo .....
206 Paso Robles ..... 286 Paso Robles ........ San Luis Obispo .....
207 Winnedumah ..... 287 Bishop ............. Inyo ...............
208 Maxwell .......•. 288 Moxwdl •••. · · · · • · · Colusa .............
209 Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore ............ Riverside ..........
210 East Gate ....... 290 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
211 Santa Paula . ~l Santa Paula ........ Ventura ...........
212 Los Gatos . . . . . . . 292 Los Gatos .......... Santa Clara ........
213 Orange Grove ... 293 Orange ............ Orange
...........
214 Traver .......... 294 Kingsburg ......... Fresno ............
215 Mt. Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville ......... Sonoma •...........
216 Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego .......... San Diego ..........
217 Dunsmuir ........ 297 Dunsmuir .......... Siskiyou ...........
~

.............

.

1

.
.

,,,.

218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
2-!6
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254

Mokelumne Hill .. 298 Mokelumne Hill •..• Calaveras ..••......
Liberty ••.••.•... 29!1 Santa Clara •....... Santa Clara ....... .
Redlands ........ 300 Redlands •.........• San Bernardino
Ontario .......... 301 Ontario ..........•. San Bernardino .... .
Santa Lucia ..... 302 Kings' City ........ Monterey ......... .
Porterville ....... 303 Porterville ......... Tulare ............ .
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley ........... Fresno ............ .
Azusa ........... 305 IAzusa ............. Los Angeles ....... .
Ashlar ........... 306,Colton ............. San Bernardino ... ..
Santa Monica .... 307 !Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ....... .
Monrovia ........ 308 Monrovia .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Delano ......... · 30!J Delano ............. Kern ........ ~ .... .
Sisson ........... 310 Sisson ..... ·........ Siskiyou .......... .
Los Banos ...... · 312 Los Banos . . . . . . . . Merced ........... .
Tehachapi ....... 313 [Tehachapi .......... Kern .............. .
Temescal ........ 314:Corona ............. Riverside ......... .
Norwalk ......... 3151 Norwalk ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Sanger .......... 316 Sanger ............ Fresno ............ .
Fall brook ........ 317 Fallbrook .......... San Diego , ....... ..
Emmanuel ....... 318 Biggs .............. Butte ............. .
Hollenbeck ...... 319 [Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
South Gate ....... 320 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Alisal ........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda .......... .
Alh'.1-n;bra ........ 322 Alh'.l~bra .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Whittier ......... 323 1'Whittier . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles ....... .
Corona .......... 324 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Consuelo ......... 325 Escondido .......... San Diego ......... .
Needles ......... 326 Needles ............ San Bernardino ... ..
Long Beach ..... 321 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Redondo ........ 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Vallee de France .. 329 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Kilauea ......... 330 Hilo ............... Hawaiian Ter ...... .
Pacific Grove .... 331 Pacific Grove ....... Monterey ......... .
San Pedro . . . _.. 332 San Pedro .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Alta ............. 333 Bridgeport ......... Mono ............. .
Covina .......... 33-! Covina ............. Los Angeles ...... ..
·west Gate ....... 33.i Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
1

1

Date when Charter
was Ordered.

I

~I '""

,_,i:i

'""'00

-"',_, ~:§
Co).~
0'"

'""'
C,lCJ

~A

~I

<P-

~iE

-<

--- - - - - - - - -

Oct.

11,

1883

"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.

"
16,
"
16,

"
1884.

"

"

"

"

16,

"
"
"
1885.
"
1884.

"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
14,

Oct.

14,

"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
"
11,
"
"
"

"
"
"
1888.
"

Oct.

10,

1889.

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

1886.

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

16,

1890.

"
"
"
"

"

"

"
Oct.
"

"

Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
1886.

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
14,
"
"
"14,

"
1891.
"
"
"
1891.

12,

1892.

"

"
"
"
1893.

"
"
"

"
"
11,
"
"
"
"
11,
"
"
"
11,

1895.

"

"

"

Oct.

13,

1896.

Oct.

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"

15,

"
"

"
"
1894.
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

1897.

"
"
Oct.

"
" "
14, 1898.

Oct.

14,

1899.

1d ... 1.ol
30
1
50 ...... 1
50 ......
61
30
1
30
3
30
75 15

~gl"'"3

30 ......
30 .. ...
30
1
:m 10
30 ......
80 ......
80 ......
30 ......
50 ......
:10 ......
50 ······
50
1
801'""'
:10
......
50 ......
50, .... .,

50
3
30 .... ..
50 .... ..
50 ..... .
40 .... ..
50 ..... .
30 """
80 .... ..
50 .... ..
.50 ..... .
50 .... ..
50 .... ..
50
2
50 ......
50
1
40 ..... .
80 ..... .
50 """
30
5

85
50
50

5

101

1

6
6
6
6
6
6
6,
6
6
6
6
6
12
6
0
0
6
6
()

6
6
6
6
6
6

6
0
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
0
6
{i

9
\)
()

'"
~

0
0
\)

0
9

"::

>-3

ti:

t?J

n

74
388
105

54
181
245
13\J

66
172
63
80
128
137
120
73
75
54
125
!J3

316
,,.

lgl
12

:~

0

lHJ
110

5!

()

~

7H

121

6

~

:-'-"
,.,

56
\J5
i38
48
60.'5
137

6

50 """
30
il
75 10

20

111

(j\)

ti

75

c

(),.

()

~
T;:.

:n

8

6
6
6

~

34
421
76
50
6-1
112
683
158
\J2
51

56
81
87
54
678
732
Gl
251
185
805

()

:io ..... .

:'.§

431

B.5 ......

50
1
50 .... ..
50 ..... .
75 1'2
50 .... ..
50 .... ..
50 """
5;) .... ..

~"
,.-;~

~I rn:-i

15

:io ......

~~

Q
~

;...

z
lj
t"
0
lj

Q

t!J
0
"'.1

~

~

0

~

z
~

1~o

!J\l
161
67
180
•:>•.)

"''
151
400

N

.j>.

t.>

=

~-....,..----

··~"'·

--~"

__ , . : : . -

···::----

"""":::~:iii_;:,-~:-

H

--:f.:::..;:;mm£.

w

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Oontinued.

..j:o.

-··

..j:o.

,;,

);ames of Lodges.

9--

,_,).)

2:i6
f'.:)7

2.58
2;)[)

2()0

261
2G2
2fi:l
264
2fF:i

UH:

271

212
...,,,")

274
("}-,-

L..l·>

21()
p-"''
278
219

O.:t.

1+,

"

"

"

Oct.
Oct.

"
"

"

•I

"
"

;w1
:-lU:.'.
303

:w+

:JO;;

30()

307
308

:mg
310
311

312
313

''
,,
''
,,
,,
''
rno3
,,
,,

,,

u

,,''

''"

]()\)

;')()

:-~1

;]{)5

i\O ..... .
7;1 };)

9 ..... -

13,
12,

190:1.
1905.

:m

"
"

"

"

,)() .....

........•.. !Alameda .......... .

I

II

Oct.

"

Highland Park ... 382
Orosi ............ 38i\
:El Centro ........ 384 IEl
Dinuba .......... :J85
Coalinga ......... 381
Parnassus ....... 388
Pnlos Verdes ..... 38D Long Beach ........ .
Imperial ......... 390 Imperial .......... .
East Belt ........ 391 'l'uolurnne ........ .
·west Lake ....... 3fl2' Los Angeles ....... .
Balder .......... 39i\ San Francisco ...... .
UniYersity ....... 394 Los Angeles ...... .
Tnrlock .......... :3D5 1.Turlock ........•... 1 ;:;tamsia
........... 39GIAlameda .....•.....
Light ..... 397 1 Huntington Park ....
.......... 398 }'owler .....•.....
1

. . .. . . . ..
..........
..........

II

"
"
"
"
"

"

Oct.
II

"
"
"
"
"
Oet.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

II

271

;)ll. ....

1i2

II

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

5011 ......
J
501
:11

•)

"
"
"

"
"
1908
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

1.

;;I
lU
,,.

"
"

"

!>
!'

74
,...,_)

(}

B21l

'·

"
"
H06.
"

II

t:;

2~:~

"

"
"

!:2

50

WI
:;8

1905.

"

c
r
G
~
"'·
'=;

70

,,"
"
"

1907.

r

_,,

"

"
"12,
"
"
10,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
10,
"
"
"
"
"

,.,

r

iiO

Oet.
Oct.

Clara ....... .

rn8

20:·:

''

~ • • • • • • • :1c..1u.,1.;;~a

::...,

24tl
4 rn

5()
1.
50 ....

1904.

"
"
"

~VLCllHOClllO

z

H8

187

"

........ :3()3

•••

1

0

,.

7li
271

''
''
''

•••••••••

"
Oct.
·I ""

29\)

''
''
,,
''
,,
''
,,rn,
,,

u:

r-:

mu

''

...... 357

Olivet ........... 364JCorning ............ Tehama ........... .
Willits .......... 365 !Willits ......•.••.. Mendocino ....... .
./ 282 Las Palrnas ...... 3661Fresno ............. 1Fresno ......... ..
283 South Pasadena .. 3G7 ISouth Pasadena .... f Los Angeles ....... .
........... 1Los Angeles ....... .
284 Unity ........... 368!Glendale
1
285 Ocean Park ...... 311D San ta Monica ...... 1Los Angeles ....... .
........... 370' San Francisco . . . . . .
E'rancisco ..... .
286
......... 3711Honolnlu ........... !Iawaiian Tcr. . . . .
287
288 Gardena ......... 372 ,Gardena ...... ; ..... I,os Angeles ....... .
. .......... !Los Angeles ...... ..
289 Veteran . . . . . . . .
,Tewel ........... 37
Prancisco ...... iSan J!'rancisco .....
2~)(1
Richmond
.......
37.J
San
Prancisco
· ...... :San l:'rancisco ...... '
291
:Francis Drake ... 37(i jSouth San Francisco.[ San Mateo ........ .
29~
2.9:1 Artesia .......... 3i7 1 Artesia ............ Los Angeles ...... ..
Los Angdes ........ 1Los Angeles ....... .
294
'Ventura ........ ..
29.:i
............
296

:mu

n:3

''

1900.
1901.
1902.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

..... ,;);)()

'=;

89

Sunset ........... 352
Pinole ........... 353
Presidio ......... :354
...... . :J5;)

II

c

2:m

Oet.

"

,..,'1'

1899.

..••••• ,.fol

280
281

297
i98

'"'

Oct.

• .••..••• ~~\) 1uaKiauu

Golclen State .... :ns Los
Loyalton . . . . ... :359
San Francisco .... :mo
Fort Bragg ...... 361
( 'hnritv .......... :-Hi2

-

~

Palo Alto ........ 346
McKinley ....... 347
San Bernardino .. 348
1_a.

"§ II ~~
"<i

TO\Vll.

..... . 3·13

2m;

.,-~

Date when Charter
was Ordered.

,Q

Fruitvale . . ..... 3:1G
Curquinez ....... 337
San Jadnto .... ,3;;s
Fullerton ........ B:l9
Oxnard .......... 341
Sau Fernando .... 343
Starr Kin.I! ...... 844

267
26'l
21m

210

s"'
z

~ ~~
,...... I ;i £

Place of Location.

~

i)

Iii'
1
;)()

,~>o'

·:· ..

()I

I.I

():.

ol
'l'
i;i
I:!
l :!'

,,,

57
79
274
l(j\)

187
18\i
:11:5

l:H

Ii

74

()

l~ I

Q

Bl
282

?-

!J

10

tl

.....

(j

80
:181

\J1

77

8

51

{j;

•.)~

(j

fi,
12:

'"
'.!ill\
55
11 ()
'i!I
l.')2

2:1-t
100
()!i

;:;J

z
t:

0tj
Q

l:rl

0

1-rj

CJ

>
r
,...,

"'!

0

~

z

""
>

:is
.:Jtl7
171
Hltl

G7
120
78

22

w

.j>.
(Ji

f'.!!fmr

·-~~.

-·.

~ .-·

··-

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Oontinued.

...

Na.mes of Loda-es.

~

.;:;..

,,,
<I)

a;:o
z

Town.

°'

00

Places of Location.

,,;

Date when Charter
was Ordertxl.

County.

co
A

"

-;;;

s

:;:

,..,m

1

~n±

315
316

317
318
319
320
~~21

322

323
:i'..!4

a2:>
:J2(J
327
:J28

329
ililO
3.3]

il32
33:1
:l34
3:J5
336
337
338

,,,

Fraternity ....... 399 [san Jose ........... /.Santa Clara ...... ..
Burlingame ...... 400, Burlingame ....... ,.San Mateo ........ .
Ray View ....... 401,0akland ........... Alameda ......... .
Brawley ........ .402,Brawley ........•.. Imperial ......... .
1;erha .Buena ..... 403 Oakland............ rAlameda .......... .
CTlendora ....... .404 Glendora ........... Los Angeles ...... .
Mone ta .......... 1.05, Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...... .
Burbank ......... 406,Burhank ........... Los Angeles ..... .
La Mesa ........ .407 La Mesa ............ San Diego ........ .
Sierra Madre ... .4081Sierra Madre ........ Los Angeles .......•
Honolulu ....... .4091Honolulu .......... Hawaii ........... .
c;har.ter Rock ... .4 lOIBerk_eley ........... A!ame?a .......... .
I~ ern~ ........... 41i1 Pern~ ............ · / R1 \•er~1de ......... .
C. ulex1co ........ .412 Calexico ........... ,Impenal .......... .
\\'a~1coba ....... .413 Big Pine ........... Inyo .............. .
A rlrngton ....... .414 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Sih·or Trowel ... .415 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
........ .4Hi Undsay ........... •rular& ........... .
Ulovis .......... .417!Clovis · ............. Presno ........... .
Elysian ......... .4181Los Angeles ........ 1,Los Angeles ....... .
Upland .........
Upland ........... · 1San Bernardino .... .
Kerman ......... 420.Kerman .......•.... Fresno ............. .
Inglewood ....... 42l!Inglewood ......•.... Los Angeles ••••....
Rock .....• 422 Eagle Rock ......... !Los Angeles ........ .
........... .423. Watts .............. I Los Angeles ....•••.
1

A19f

Oct.

1 ,,,

1908.

"

"
14,
"
"
"
"
"13,

"
1909.

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oet.
"
"

"
"
"
"
1910.
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
Oct.

"
12,

"

"
"
"

"

"

c;
ttl

0

;il

rio

ti

z

()2
{\{)

~

el

t=:l

64
165

t"
0
ti
'2

4tl
72
28
JOO
126
52

i'j

(/J

0
"l

..,

::::;
l".l

40

um
62
62

40
4)l

1912.

4\1

"
"
"

47

"
"
"
"

"
" "
16, 1913.
"
"
"
"
"
"
rn,

"
"
"
"
"
"
1914.

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

'-::!

257

M

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

180
62
168

(/J

"
"
"
1912.

12,

"
"
"

0

298

1911.

"

148

rno

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

Exeter ...•.....• 424 Exeter •........... Tulare .......•..... Oet.
Holtville •...... .425 Holtville ............ Imperial •.•........
"
Midway ......... 426 Taft ••..•......•..• Kern ............. .
"
Chino Valley .... .427 Chino .............. San Bernardino .... .
"
San Dimas ....... 428 San Dimas ......... Los Angeles ...... .
"
Pittsburg ....... .429 Pittsburg .•........ Contra Costa ...... .
McCloud ........ 430 M_cCloud ............ siskiyou .......... .
"
Alpha ........... 431 Richmond .......... 1Contra Costa ...... .
"
Roseville ........ 432 Roseville ....•...... J Placer ............. .
"
Oct.
Hammonton .•.... 4331.Hamrnonton •....... ]Yuba ............•
Maricopa ........ 434 Maricopa . . . . . . . . . . Kern ............. .
lPairmount ....... 435 San Francisco ...... I San Francisco ..... .
Claremont ....... 436 Cfarernout ......... Los Angeles
"
Lancaster ...... .437 Lancaster ......... Los Angeles
"
Germania ........ 438 T,os Angeles . . . . . . . Los Angeles
Tyrian .......... 439 Manteca ........... San Joaquin
"
Oct.
Standard
440 Oakland ........... Alameda .......... .
Coronado
"
"
357 Blackmer
"
358 Schofield
"
359
......... 445 T,os
"
3()0
"
3()1 La Puente . . . . . .446 Puente ........... .
"
362 Torrance ....... .447 Torrance ........... Los
"
363 Mt. Diablo ..... .448 Concord ........... 1 Contra
"
364 Park ........... .449 San Francisco ...... I San Francisco ..... .
......... T,os Angeles ....... .
"
365 Van Nuys ...... .450 Van
Montebello
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Angeles
.......
.
"
:J66
San
Pasqual
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
AngeleR
.......
.
367

339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
3-19
350
351
352
353
3.54
355
356

"

"
"
"

"
"

~=

!E-

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

81
39
51
:~H

8;')

] 20

71
il2
:~n

182

40

_,

9-

:}8

20
10

GO

80
4:i

22
100

28
2:·~

25
45

~
8
t"
0

g
t"1
0

>:lj

g
>:lj

0

~

z

>

IO
14

58

rn
IV

-I'>-

"

~

EXTINCT

LODGES.

===================-======-======================c=======~===============-===-c=~========::-:-:::=cc==== 00
~

No.
4
4
6
7
7
11

Na1ne.

Location.

County.

Chartered.

Extinct

Remarks.

15

Berryman ........ Sacramento ...... Sacramento . . . . . .
19, 1850 .....•........ Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings .•......• Sacramento ...... Sacramento . . . . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
6, 1856 Charter surrendered.
Sutter ...•....... ,Sacramento ...... (Sacramento ...... May 7, 1850
6, 1856,Surrendered.
Davy Crockett ... ·1San Francisco ... ·!San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850
18, 1852 Name changed to San Francisco
San Prancisco .... San Francisco .... ,San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850
13, 1859 Hevoked.
Willamette ....... Portland ........ !Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850
1851 Transf.crred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
Iia Fayette ....... La Fayette, Ore ................... May 9, 1851
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of

28

Nas?ville ....... · 1Nashvil~e ...... .
Pacific .......... Valparaiso ..... .
Columbia ........ Columbia ...... .

24, 1851 *J .•••••.....••.
5, 1853*i ............ ..
5, 1853
15,

29
31

Diamond ......... 1Dia:110nd Sprii;igs. El i:orado ....... jMay
1\fokelumne ...... Mokelurnne Hill .. Calaveras ...... .

5, 1853 !oet.

I

I

l°ct.

5, 1853 IOct.

1

34 Santa Clara ....... iSr~nta Clara ...... Santa Clara ..... .
36 B1;tt~ ............. B1.dw?ll .· ........ Butte .......... .
47 Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ... Placer ......... .
1
Valley ..... Nevada ........ .
48 Grass Valley ...... 1Grass
49 Lebanon ........ ,San Francisco .... S_an E'rancisco ... .
52 Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ........ .
53 Franklin .......... Sacramento •.•.. Sacramento ...... May
5•1 Saint James ...... l.famestown ...... 'ruolumne ....... May
63 ro:wa Hill. ...... · IIo~a Hill ........ ~~acer .......... May
67 Mmnesota ....... jMrnnesota ....... :::>1erra ........... May
69 Ind. Hoyal Arch .. Marysville ...... Yuba .......... May
69 Corinthian ....... Marysville ...... Yuba ........... ,May

5, 1853 !Oet.
3, 1854 ;Sept.
3, 1854 Oct.
3, 1854 May
3, 1854 IIJune
3, 1854 ,Nov.
3, 1854 May
2, 1855 IFeb.
3, 1855 10ct.
2, 1855 May
2, 1855 1May
2, 1855 Dee.,

Nebraska ......•. Michigan Bar. . . Saerarnento ...... !May

2, 1855 Oct.

71

Mountain ........ Don Pedro's Bar.
Indian Diggings. . . Indian Diggings ..

86

Saint Louis ...... .'!Howland 's Flat .. .

88
88.
90
93

Unity ........... lorlcans Flat ... .
Quitman ......... \North Bloomfield
Polar Star ........ Poorman 's
Caymus .......... , Yountville
.. · · · · · ... l\Iay
········1May
.. ...... .,IMay

1·

"

I

. ... .
~

ll\fay

102
105

Manzanita ....... !North San ,Juan ..
......... ,Henley ........ .

........ ·111.fay

107

Mount Jefferson ... aarrotte ....... .

. ...... 1

108

········1May

I

Owen ............ \scott 's Bar ....... !Siskiyou ......... \May

109 Dibble ........... IOmega .....•.... Nevada ......... May
114 Mt. Zion ....... Grizzly J!'lat ..••. i El Dorado ....•.. May
ll5 Saint Mark's ..... ,li'iddletown ..... Amador ......... May
116 Windsor ......... !Windsor ....... ·!Sierra ........... May
1!,olsom .......... b'olsom ......••.. ,Sacramento ...... Feb.
1
118 Vallecito ··:····· Vallecito ·······_:JCalaver3:_s~.:·· May

·I

~

No.

18, - .
17, 18741Gonsolidated with St. Mark's No.
i 115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
1882 1Con,solid_ated with Gibsonville,
~
8, 1856 !NoY.,
I No. fo8.
>
8, 1856 .:VIay
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
Z
8, 1856 IOct.
13, rn10:consolidated with Nevada, No. 13. tl
8, 1856 ,May
8, 1858 8nrrendered.
r'
8, 18G6 [Oct.
10, 18671Rernoved and name changed to §
I
I St. Helena.
o
8, 1856 1.Dee.
24, 1859 8,urrendered.
.
l1l
1
8, 1856 I .............. .,Na,rne
changed to IIormtas.
O
9, 1856 l'Oct.
16, 1913.:'fome changed to Yo><emite No. 99. "'I
8, 1856 0Pt.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
&;
,
I No. 78.
r<
1856 loct.
13, rn1olconsolidatt' with Nevada No. 13. l:;:j
1856
11, 1876. Consolidated with St. John's
~
I No. 37.
z
14, 1857 . Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 :;;:
I
I and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol·
umne No. 8.
14, 1857 Oct.
15, 1908(onsolidated with North Star
No. 91.
14, 1857 ISept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
14, 1857 Oct.
11, 1911 1IConsolidated with Palmyra No.1:.6.
14, 1857 ,June 26, 1894 Revoked.
.
18, 1861 !surrendered.
~
14, 1857 \May
14, 1857* Jan.
28, 1858ilCharter never issued.
13, 1858 Jan.
5, 1_859 S11rrender:_d_._ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

I

94 Mount Hermon .... \Elizabethtown .. .
rtzburg ....... quartzburg .... .
98
Grange ...... · Merced ....... .
99
100 Campo Seeo ....... Campo Seco ..... .

.

:;;

8, 18:36 '!May
8, 1856 Oct.

I

1

never issued.
~
lted with Tuolumne No. t-<
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as S
Tuolumne No. 8.
C:
187R Surrendered.
t:l
1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
15, 1887 ReYoked.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1897 Surrendererl.
6, 1856 Snrrendered.
29, 1857 Hevoked.
1864 Surrendered.
1
JO, 18561Surrendered.
20, 1875 Surrendered.
29, 1857 Surrendered.
14, 1859 1Sunondered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No. 9.
1874,Consolidated with Marysville No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
15, 18871Consolidated with Ione No. 80.

1, 18581Surrendered.
2, 1855 !Dec.
2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
15, 1857*r .............. Charter ·never issued.
3, 1855 IAug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
2, 1855 May
1870
2, 1855 IDec.,
J 8981•Am~uHuacuu

E. K. Kane .••.... Nevada ........ .
Tyro ..........•. Drytown ........ 111uI<mv•
Franklin .....•.. Meadow Valley .. .
14 Wisconsin Hill. ... Wisconsin Hill .. .
75 Mountain ]'orest .. Eureka North ... .
71 "1.>etaluma ........ Petaluma ........ 1;:,ouurna
72
73

82
85

I

~

::l
:;.:

I

·1oet.

l.

I
I

'°

··---

No.

Name.

Location.

County.

.,·.'lC.~

Extinct

Remarks.

121
125

Ionic . . . . . . . . . . .
.........

1,l3

Jlosem1te . . . . . . .

13. ~
131>
142

O;o Fino ........• !Oro l!'ino ....... ··!Siskiyou ........ !May
V10let ..•....•••. Sparnsh Flat ....• , El Dorado ....... May
Colusa ........••• Colusa .........• !Colusa .......... May

148
151

San Luis Obispo •.. San Ln~s Obispo. ·1San Luis Obispo. ·!May
Palmyra ......••. Placerville ...... El Dorado ....... ,'May

J.?O

,

.

.....

· .. · · ·

152 Josephus ..•.... , • Brush Creek ...... :Butte ........... May
153 Rising Sun .....•. Brandy
.... Sierra . . . . .... · 1May
154 Carson ........••• Carson City ...... Nevada Ter ...... May
155 Mount Carmel. .••. Red Dog ........• Nevada ......... May
157 ·washoe .....••..• Washoe City ..... ,Nevada Ter ...... May
158 Gibsonville ..•••• Gibsonville ...... '!Sierra ........... May
159 G~lroy ; ........ , . G~lroy ; ......... Santa Clara ..•... ,M~y
160 P~lot.1!1ll. ". ...•••. P~Iot. ~ill ......... EI Dorado ....•.. May
Hi2 Y1rgmia City ..... Y1rgmia City .... Nevada Ter ...... May
1
163 Silver City .....•. Silver City ...... ·:Nevada
Ter ...... May
165 Silver Star .....•. Gold Hill ....... ·1Nevada 'fer ...... Oct.
170 ~sme~alda ....• , . A~iro;a, ... ._ ...... Nevada 'fer ...... Oct.
171 Escurral ....••••• Virg1ma City ..•• ,Nevada Ter ..... .
172 Lauder .........• 'Austin ........•. Nevada .Ter ..... .
Alpine ••...•..•.. l\1.arkleeville ... Alpine ......... .
175 Claiborne ..•..... Antioch ......... !Contra Costa .... .
176 Merced ...••••••. 1,Snelling ......... Mercecl ........ .
177 Aztlan ......•••.• '!Prescott . . . . .... Arizona Ter ..... .

·I

180

t;;
0

·--~----

Arcturas ........• Petaluma ••...•• :Sonoma .......... ! Oct.

8, 1905 Surrendered.
14, 1870 Revoked.
1~, 1863 Revoked.
.
1
lb, 1913,consol!dated
with LaGran~e No.99,
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
1862 Surrendered.
10, 1860 I.Tune,
I
10, 1860 Oct.
1879,Surrendered.
10, 1860 April
1882ilconsolidated .with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.
2, 1865!Surrendered.
10, 19111Consolidated with El Dorado No.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
15, 1862
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862
16, 1864!Surrcndered.
15, 1862
16, 1865iTransforred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863
Hi, 18721Surrendered.
14. 1863
16, 18651Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14; 1863
15, 19081 Jonsolidated with Jefferson No. 97.
28, 18641Surrendered.
11., 1863
14, 1863
18981co1rnolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
14, 1863
16, 1865,Transforrnd to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15, 1863
16, 1865 11Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864
16, 1865,•rransferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864
16, 1865 1Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864
1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1864
1865 Transferred to Jttrisdiction of Nevada.
25,
1864 Charter never issued.
12, 1865 .............. 1Name changed to Antioch.
12, 1865
J 879'1Surrendered.
11, 1866
1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
1898 1IConsolidated wi.th Petaluma No.
77 as No.

"1

~

~
~

~

g
o

SJ
o

"'!

~
M

IO, 18671 .............. Name changed to Claiborne.
10ct. 15,
1868 Der.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.

185 Arenas ........... 1Punta Arenas .... Mendocino ..•.. ·
189 Latrobe ........•. Latrobe ......... El Dorado ....... Oct.
197 Paradise ......... Haywards ....... Alameda ........ Oct.
Rocklin .......... Rocklin ......... Placer .......... .,July
213 Bodega .......... Bodega ......... Sonoma ......... \Oct.
218 Pleasanton ....... Livermore ....... ,Alameda ........ Oct.
223 Maui ............ iWailuku ......... Hawaii ......... Oct.
227 Contra Costa ...... Somers ville ...... Contra Costa ... , . Oct.
...-238 Tyre ........ , ... Gold Run ........ Placer .......... Oct.
239 Peseadero ........ Pescadero ....... San Mateo ....... Oct.
240 Equality ......... Colusa. . . ..•.... Colusa .......... Oct.

14, 1869 July
20, ) 872 Surrendered.
30, 1870*'[ .............. Charter never issued.
14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
11, 1872 ,Oct.
18, 1881,Name changed to Mosaic.
18, 1873 Nov. 17, 18771Surrendercd.
18, 1873 Oct.
15, 1897 ISurrendereu.
14, 1875 Oct.
16, 1884 Surrendered.
~
14, 1875 Sept. 26, 1890 Surrendered.
>
14, 1875 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142
as Colusa No. 240.
1896 Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132
1878
Greenville
........
'Greenville
.......
Plumas
.......
.
219
1888 Surrendered.
ti
1878 April
251 Brotlierhood ..... Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma ........ .
1882 Trnnsferred to jurisdiction of
~
Arizona
..........
Phoenix
........
Arizona
Ter
.....
.
1879
l'
M
:.eh.
1
257
Arizona.
~
4, 1881* M<:>h. 2,), 1882iTransferred to jurisdiction of
Solomon ......... !Tombstone ...... IArizona Ter ..... .
Arizona.
0
15, 1881 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
;..
263 Tucson .......... ITucson ......... IArizona Ter ..... .
· Arizona.
t;
Fall
River
.......
!Burgett
ville
....
Shasta
..........
Oct.
11,
1883
Oct.
10,
1895
Revoked.
"'1
270
26, 1888 Surrendered.
276 Westport ........ Westport ........ '!Mendocino ....... Oct. 16, 1884 May
1~, 1911 ~onsol~dated wi~h Woodland Xo.156 ~
284 Tyrian .... , .....• Dunnigan ........ Yolo ............ Oct. 14, 1886 Oct.
Hueneme
........
Hueneme
........
ve.ntura
.........
Oct.
12.,
1892
Oct.
lb, 1902IConsohdatcd with Oxnard No. 341. ?311
Santa Maril! ...... Santa Maria ...... Santa Barbara .... Oct. 11, 1900 Oct.
13, l 910 Consolidated with IIespP.rian Ko. ~f>l.
340 Manila .......... !Manila ........•. 1Philippine Islands Oet. 10, 1901 Dec.
19, 1912\Transferred to jurisrliction of
342
·1
Philippine IslHnds.
19, 19121Transfrrre. d to jurisdiction of
350 Cavite ........... Cavite .......... Philippine Islands Oct. 15, 1903 ,Dec.
Philippine Islands.
Corregidor ....... . Manila .. , ..•... Philippine Islands Oct. 10, 1907 Dec.
19, 1912\''l'ransferred to jurisdiction of
386
____
Philippine Islands.
N

S

,0ct.

S

I

·I

1

*Date of Dispensation.

g

I

;'.:

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICEltS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M.·. W.'. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

252

253

lSTir DAY OF APRIL. A. L. 5850.
Year

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt. ....... *Caleb Fenner.
•John A. Tutt. ............ *Benjamin D. Hyam .. *E. F. W. Ellis.
•Benjamin D. Hyam...... *Charles M. Radcliff.. •Adolphus Hollub.
*Charles M. Radcliff ...... *Townsend A. Thomas *John R. Crandall.
*William H. Howard ..... •Nathaniel G. Curtis .. *Rector E. Cole.
*William H. Howard ..... *Townsend A. Thomas *John A. Raymond.
•William H. Howard ..... *John A Raymond ..... *Lemuel Lyon.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... *Charles Marsh ....... *Aaron D. Park.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... *Philip W. Shepheard. *William McCormick.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... *Philip "\V. Shepheard. *Ebenezer Lane.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... *Philip W. Shepheard. *William C. Belcher.
•James L. English ........ *William C. Belcher .. *John W. Harville.
*William C. Belcher ...... *Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •John W. Harville.
*William C. Belcher. . . . . . *Gilbert B. Claiborne.. *Louis Cohn.
*William C. Belcher ...... *Gilbert B. Claiborne..
William A. Davies.
*Gilbert B. Claiborne..... William A. Davies... *Isaac S. Titus.
*Gilbert B. Claiborne..... *Henry H. Hartley.... *Wm. H. Peterson.
William A. Davies. . . . . . . *Henry H. Hartley. . . . Thomas Beck.
*Charles Marsh........... *Leonidas E. Pratt. ... *Theodore G. Cockrill.
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... *Isaac S. Titus ........ *John S. Ward.
•Leonidas E. Pratt ........ *Isaac S. Titus ........ *Charles L. Wiggin.
*Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... *Charles L. Wiggin ... *I3enj. H. Freeman.
*Leonidas E. Pratt. . .'..... *Benj. H. Freeman...
George C. Perkins.
*Isaac S. Titus...........
George C. Perkins... •John M. Browne.
George C. Perkins ........ •John M. Browne ..... *William B. Parker.
•John M. Browne......... *Charles L. Wiggin... *Wiley J. Tinnin.
•John M. Browne ......... *Charles L. Wiggin ... *William S. Wells.
•John M. Browne ......... *Charles L. Wiggin ... *"\Villiam "\V. Traylor.
•John M. Browne ......... •William W. Traylor .. *\Villiam H. Crane.
*William W. Traylor......
Samuel C. Denson .... *Clay W. Taylor.
Samuel C. Denson ........ *Clay W. Taylor ...... *John Q. Adams.
*Clay W. Taylor .......... •John Q. Adams...... *Jonathan D. Hines.
*Clay W. Taylor .......... *.Jonathan D. Hines ... *Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines ...... *Wiley J. Tinnin ...... *Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines...... *Wiley .T. Tinnin...... *Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Wiley J. Tinnin .......... *Edmund C. Atkinson. *Hiram N. Rucker.
*Edmund C. Atkinson ..... *Hiram N. Rucker .... *Morris M. Estee.
*Hiram N. Rucker ........ *Morris M. Estee ..... *Alvah R. Conklin.
*Morris M. Estee ......... *Alvah R. Conklin .... *William Johnston
*Morris M. Estee......... *William .Johnston.... *Charles R. Gritman.
*Alvah R. Conklin ......... *William Johnston .... *Charles R. Gritman.
*William Johnston........ •Charles Ray Gritman. *Henry S. Orme.
*Charles R. Gritman ..... *Henry S. Orme.......
James B. Stevens.
*Henry S. Orme...........
James B. Stevens .... *Edward M. Preston.
James B. Stevens ........ *Edward M. Preston.. William T. Lucas.
William T. Lucas....
Thomas Flint.
lfs95 *Edward M. Preston......

1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1S7i
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894

*Deceased

L

Junior
Grand Warden.

\ Grand

Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

•Sashel Woods ........ *Levi Stowell.......
*John H. Gillon ...... .
•Benj. S. Olds ......... •Townsend A. Thomas. *Levi Stowell ......... .
•.John R. McConnell. . . •Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell ......... .
*Richard F. Knott..' .. *Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell ........ ..
*Robert N. Wood ..... *Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell ........ ..
*Samuel A. Merritt. .. *Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell ......... .
*Peter W. Randle ..... *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*John B. Bope ........ *Addison Martin ...... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•James W. Bicknell ... *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Thomas P. Hawley .. *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Alvinza Hayward .... *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Caleb E. Wilcoxon ... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
*John B. Hewson ..... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
William A. Davies ... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Isaac S. Titus ........ •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Henry H. Hartley .... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Thomas Beck ....... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Leonidas E. Pratt .... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
Frederick F. Barss ... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Richard Dale ........ •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Benj. H. Freeman ... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell. ...... .
Geo. C. Perkins ...... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
*John M. Browne ..... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...•....
Chas. E. Mitchell .... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Wiley J. Tinnin ..... *.Tames Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
*Jacob H. Neff ........ •James Laidley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Solon W. Craigue .... •James Laidley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Wm. H. Crane ........ •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Robert C. Broder .... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*John Q. Adams ...... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Orrin W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Thomas .T. Bowers ... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*George Hinds ........ •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Hiram N. Rucker .... *Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell .......•
*Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ......•.
*Henry H. Knapp ..... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Alvah R. Conklin .... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Wm. Johnston ....... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Marcus D. Boruck ... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell •.......
*Henry S. Orme ...... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
*Henry S. Orme ...... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
James B. Stevens .... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
*Edward M. Preston .. *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
Wm. T. Lucas ....... "F:dward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ..... .
Thomas Flint ...•.... ''Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ..... .
Frank M. Angellotti .. 'Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ..... .

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

254

LIS'r OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

LIST OF ELJ1~CTED OFFICERS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

255

M. ·. vV. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION O:N THE

18TII DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.
-------····

Year.
1896
1897
1898
1899
l!lOO

1901
1902
1903

1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

William T. Lucas........ Thomas Flint........ Frank M. Angellotti.
Thomas Flint.............. Frank M. Angellotti.. Charles L. Patton.
Frank M. Angellotti...... Charles L. Patton.... *.James A. Foshay.
Charles L. Patton ........ *James A. Foshay..... vVllliam S. Wells.
*James A. Foshay......... William S. Wells..... Orrin S. Henderson.
William S. Wells......... Orrin S. Henderson.. Charles W. Nutting.
Orrin S. Henderson...... Charles W. Nutting.. George W. Hunter.
Charles W. Nutting...... George W. Hunter... Motley H. Flint.
George W. Hunter....... Motley H. Flint...... Edward H. Hart.
Motley H. Flint.......... Edward II. Hart..... George M. Perine.
Edward H. Hart......... Geo. M. Perine ....... *Reuben H. Loyd.
George M. Perine ........ *Reuben H. Loyd...... Oscar Lawler.
Oscar Lawler ............ *W. Frank Pierce.....
Dana R. Weller.
*W. Frank Pierce......... Dana R. V\reller...... Alonzo J. Monroe.
Dana R. Weller.......... Alonzo J. Monroe.... Wm. P. Filmer.
Alonzo J. Monroe........ Wm. P. Filmer...... John D. Murphey.
Wm. P. Filmer.......... John D. Murphey.... Benj. F. Bledsoe.
John D. Murphey........ Benj. F. Bledsoe..... Albert G. Burnett.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......... Albert G. Burnett.... Francis V. Keesling.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Charles L. Patton ..•. *Eldward Coleman .... .
•James A. Foshay ... *Edward Coleman .... .
Wllliam S. Wells ..... •EJdward Coleman .... .
Orrin S. Henderson ... •Edward Coleman .... .
Charles W. Nutting .. *Edward Coleman .... .
George W. Hunter ... *Edward Coleman .... .
Motley H. Flint ...... *Edward Coleman .... .
Edward H. Hart ..... 'Edward Coleman .... .
George M. Perine .•.. *Edward Coleman .... .
"Reuben H. Lloyd ..... •Edward Coleman .... .
Oscar Lawler ......... "Edward Coleman .... .
•w. Frank Pierce ..... •Edward Coleman .... .
Alonzo J. Monroe .... *Edward Coleman .... .
Wllllam P. Filmer ... *Edward Coleman .... .
John D. Murphey .... *Edward Coleman .... .
Benj. F. Bledsoe •.... *Edward Coleman .... .
Albert G. Burnett. .. *Edward Coleman .... .
Francis V. Keesling .. Wm. P. F!lmer ..... .
W. Rhodes Hervey ... '.Vm. P. Filmer ...... .

----··--·····--

•Deceased.

•Deceased.

Grand
Secretary

Grand
Lecturer.

•George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson .... ..
•George Johnson ..... .
•George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson .... ..
*George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson ..... .
•George Johnson ....•
*George Johnson ..... .
John Whicher ....... .
John Whicher •......•
John Which er ..•.....
John Whicher ....... .
John Whicher .....•
.John Whicher ....... .
.John V\rhicher ....... .

Wm. H. Edward!
Wm. H. Edwards
Wm. H. Edwards
Wm. H. Edward1
Wm. H. Edwards
Wm. H. Edwa.rda
Wm. H. Edwa.rda
Thomas J. Baker
Thomas J. Baker
Thomas J. Baker
Thomas J .. Baker
Thomas J. Baker
Thomas J. Baker
Thomas J. Baker
Thomas J. Baker

256

GRA~rn LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES AND BRITISH A~rERICA.

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH Al\IERIOA

GRAND LODGN OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Lodges.

Grand Secretaries.

Residences.

Organized

Alabama ........•. George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery ...... June 15, 1821
Alberta .......... ~Geo. l\:Iacdonald ... ~ ... CaJgarv · ..........• Oc•t.

12, HlU5

Arizona ........•.. George J. Roskruge ..• Tucson ............ Mar. 25. 1882
Arkansas ..........Fay Hempstead ...... Little Rock ........ Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia ... W. A. De\Volf Smith .. New \Vestminster .. Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ............ R. L. Gunn ............ Hamilton .......... Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado .•..••...•. Charles H. Jacobson ... Denver ............ Aug. 2, 1861
Connecticut ......• George A. Kies ......... Hartford .......... J'uly
8, 1789
Delaware ....... ..• V. V. Harrison ........Wilmington ........June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbia .. Arvine W. J'ohnston ... \Vashington ....... Feb. 19, 1811
Florida ........•..• Wilber P. Webster ...•Jacksonville ....... July
5, 1830
Georgia ..........• W. A. Wolihin ........Macon ............. Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho .....••.•..•••Theophilus W. Randall Boise .............. Dec. 17, 1867
IIUneis •...•..•.••.• Isaac Cutter .......... Camp Point ....... April 6, 1840
Indiana ............ Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis ...... Jan. 12, 1818
Iowa •........•...• Newton R. Parvin ..... Cedar Rapids ...... Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas ....•......• Albert K. Wilson ..... •ropeka ............ Mar. 17, 1856
Kentucky .. , ...•..• Dave Jackson ......... Louisville .......... Oct.
8, 1800
Louisiana •.. , • , ••• Richard Lambert. ....• New Orleans ...... June 20, 1812
Maine .....•.•...•• Stephen Berry ........ Portland .......... June 1, 1820
Manitoba •••••....• James A. Ovas ........ Winnepeg ......... May 12, 1875
Maryland ......... George Cook .......... Baltimore ......... April 17, 1887
Massachusetts ...• Thos. W. Davis ...... Boston ............ Mar. 8, 1777
Michigan .......... Lou B. Winsor ........ Reed City ......... Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota ......•.• John Fishel ........... Saint Paul ........ Feb. 23, 1863
M!ssisslppi •...•..• Frederick G. Speed .... Vicksbu_rg ......... July 27, 1818
M1ssourl •....•••.•• John R. Parson ....... St. Louis .......... May
4, 1821
Montana ........... Cornelius Hedges, Jr .. Helena ............ Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska .• , .•.•.•• Francis E. White ..... Omaha ............ sept. 23, 18f>7
Nevada .•..•..••. ~Edward D. Vanderleith.Carson . . . . ....... Jan. 16, 1865
New Brunswick ... J. Twining Hartt ..... Saint John ......... Oct. 10, 1867
New Hampshire ...• Harry M. Cheney ..... Concord ........... July
8, 178n
New Jersey ....... Benj. F. Waketield .... Trenton ........... Dec. 18, 1786
•'l'ew Mexico •.....• Alpheus A. Keen ...... Albuquerque ...... Aug.
7, 1877
New York ......••. Edward M. L. Ehlers.New York ......... Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina. ..•• John C. Drewry ....... Raleigh ............ Dec. 12, U77
North Dakota ...•• ·waiter L. Stockwell. .. J,'argo ..............June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ....••• Thomas Mowbrav ..... Halifax ........... Jan. 21, 1866
Ohio .............. Jacob H. Bromwell ... Cincinnati .........Tan.
7, 1808
Oklahoma •.•.....• Wm. M. Anderson .... Oklahoma Citv ....Nov. 10, 1892
Oregon ...•.•...••• James F. Robinson .... Portland .......... Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsylvania .......John A. Perry .........Philadelphia ...... Sept. 25, 1786
Prince Ed. bland .• ·waiter P. Dou!!. ...... Charl·ittet0wn ......June 24, 1875
Quebec ........•...Will H. Whyte ....... Montreal .......... Oct. 20, 1863
Rhode Island •...• s. Penrose Williams .. Providence ........June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan ..... J.M. Shaw ............ Regina ........... Aug.
9, 1906
South Carolina •... 0. Frank Hart ........ Columbia ..........Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota ...• Geo. A. Pettigrew ..... Sioux Falls ........ July 21, 1775
Tenne$see ........• John B. Garrett. .....• Nashville .......... Dec. 27, 1813
Texas ............. \V. B. Pierson ........ \Vaco ............. Dec. 20, 1837
Utah .............. Freeman A. McCarty .Salt Lake City ..... Jan. 17, 1872
Vermont ........•.•Henry H. Ross ....... Burlington ........ Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia •........•• Charles A. Nesbitt. ... Richmond .........Oct. 13, 1778
Washington ....... Horace w. Tyler ...... Tacoma ............ Dec.
8, 1858
>Vest Virginia ......J0hn M. Colans ....... Charleston ......... May · 11, 1865
Wisconsin •........ Wllliam w. Perrv ..... Milwaukee ........Dec. 18, 1843
Wyoming ..........Wm. L. Kuykendall .. ,Saratoga ..........Dec. 15, 1874

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Abell .............. 146 D'kiah ............... Mendocino.
Acacia •...........• 92 Coloma .......•.•...• El Dorado.
Adin .............. 250 Adin ................ l'.fodoc.
.Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek ....... Contra Costa.
Alameda •.......... 167 Centerville ........•• Alameda.
Alcatraz ....•...... 2,14 Oakland ...•......... Alamerla.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ......•••.. Los Angeles.
Alisa! ......•....... 321 Pleasanton ........... A lamer1a.
Alpha . . . . . . . .... .431 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Alta .........••.... 333 Bridgeport .......... Mono.
Alturas ............ 248 Alturas .............. Modoe.
Amity •............ 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador ............ 65 ,Jackson ............. Amaclor.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ..•..•...... Orange.
Anchor ..........•.. 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
Antioch ......•..•.. 175 Antioch ...•......... Contra Costa.
Apollo ............. 396 Alamer1a ............. Alameda.
Arcata ...........•. 106 Arcata .............. Humboldt.
Arroyo ..........•. 27 4 Arroyo Grande ....... San Luis Obispo.
:Arlington ......... .414 Los
......... Los Angeles.
Artesia ...•........ 377 Artesia .............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar ............. 306 Colton ..............• San Bcrnarrlino.
Athens ............ 228 DaYis ............... Yolo .
Azusa .....•....... 305 Azusa ............... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakcrefield ........... Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Bay View ......... 401 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Bear Mountain ....• 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Benicia • . . . . . . . . . . • 5 Benicia .........••...Solano.
Berkeley ......•.... 363 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Blackmrr .......... eA2 Sn.n Diego ........... San Diego.
Bodie ............. 252 Boilie ............... Mono.
Brawley .......... .402 Brawley ............. Imperial.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ... , ....... Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ...•...... 225 East Oakland ........ Alameda.
Buckeye ........... 195 Winters ••........... Yolo.

257

258
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOH.-l!A

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Post Office.

County.

Buena Park ........ 357 Buena Park .......... Orange.
Burbank .......... .406 Burbank ............ Los Angeles.
Burlingame ....... .400 Burlingame .......... San Mateo.
Calexico .......... .412 Calexico ............. Imperial.
California . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Cahveras ......... 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Calla yo mi ......... 282 Middletown .......... Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga ............ Napa.
Carpinteria ........ 444 Carpinteria .......... Santa Barbara.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............. Contra Costa.
Charity ........... 362 Campbell ..........•. Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ...... .410 Berkeley ........... _.. A'lameda.
Chico .............. 111 Chico ............... Butte.
Chino Valley ..... .427 Chino ............... San Bernardino.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino.
Claremont ........ .436 Claremont ........... Los Angeles.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat ........... Placer.
Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake ......... Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo ................• Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis ............... Fresno.
Coalinga ........... 387 Coalinga ..........•.. Tulare.
Concord ........... 117 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Confidence ......... 203 Castroville .......... Monterey.
Consuelo .......... 325 Escondido ........... San Dif'go.
Colusa ............ 240 Colusa ............... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Coronado .......... 441 Coronado ............ San Diego.
Covelo ............ 231 Covelo .............. ,Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina .............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Crescent City ........ Del Norte.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ....... 'San Francisco.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 309 Delano .............. Kern.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba .............. Tulare.
Doric ............. 216 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Downey ........... 220 Downey ............. Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Plymouth ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir ......... 21l7 Dunsmuir ............ Siskiyou.
Durant ............ 268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... 422 Eagle Rock .......... Los Angeles.
East Belt .......... 391 Tuolumne ..•....••.. Tuolumne.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

East Gate ......... 290 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Eden .............. 113 San Leandro ......... Alameda.
Eel River .......... 147 Fortuna ............. Humboldt.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ............ San Diego.
Elk Grove ......... 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
Elysian ............ 418 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise ......... 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Eucalyptus ........ 243 Haywards ........... Alameda.
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ............. Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ........... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Exeter ............ 424 Exeter .............. Tulare.
Fairmount ........ .435 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Fallbrook ......... 317 Fallbrook ........... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Oakland ............. Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fillmore ............. Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest ............. 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Fowler ............ 398 Fowler .............. Fresno.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland ...........•Sacra.mento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ... San Mateo.
Fr.aternity ......... 399 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Fresno ............ 24 7 Fresno ..............•Fresno.
Friendship •....•... 210 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Fruitvale •......... 336 Oakland ........... , Alameda.
Fullerton ........... 339 Fullerton ............ Orange.
Galt ............... 267 Galt ................ Sacramento.
Gardena .......... 372 Gardena ............. Los Angeles.
Georgetown . . . . . . . . 25 Georgetown .......... El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp ........ Tuolumne.
Germania ......... 438 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Glendora ......... .404 Glendora ............ Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ....... 30 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden State ...... 338 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill , • . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln .............. Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
Granite ........... 222 Rocklin ............. Placer.
Gravel Range •..... 59 Campton ville ........ Yuba.

259

260
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

Guadalupe ......... 237 Guaualupe ........... Santa Barbara.
Hammonton ........ 4:3:l Jfmumonton ......... Yuba.
Uanforll .......... 279 Hanforll ............. Kings.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.
Hartley ........... 199 I,akeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian .......... 21 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian 'rn.
Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......... Amador.
Ilerniaun .......... 121 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
llL''PPl'i:rn ......... 2G+ Santa Maria ......... Santa Barbara.
I!i,~hlan<1 Park ..... 3S2 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
1I i II 's Ferr.'· ....... 2:rn N cw man ............ ,Stanislaus.
Hiram ............. 43 El Dorado ........... El Dorado.
Hollen beck ........ 319 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood ........ 3E15 Hollywood ........... Los Angeles.
Holtdlle ........... 42;} Holtville ............ Imperial.
Honolulu .......... 409 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .............. 23~ Beckwith ............ Plumas.
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos ............. Mariposa.
Howanl ........... 96 Yreka ............... Siskiyou.
Humbohlt ......... 79 Eureka ............. Humboldt.
II un tington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax .............. Placer.
Imperial ........... 390 Imperial .............Imperial.
Inglewood .......... 421 Inglewood ........... Los Angeles.
Inyo .......... : ... 221 Indepcrnlence ........ Inyo.
Ione .............. 80 lone ................ Arna<lor.
Jefferson .......... 91 Laport<' ............. Plumas.
.Tanes,·illc .......... 2:l'.l .l:rncS1·ille .......... Lassen.
Jewel ............. 31-1 :-;,,,, Praneiso·o
San l"ranciseo.
Keith ............. 181 (; i I,.,_,.
~-'.:111 ta Clara.
. Fn•s110.
Kerman ........... .420 l( ('"lll:l ll
i :a la ,·nas.
Keystone .......... 161 '.\lil'.n:i
.. lf::\Yaii:tll rl\..,r.
Kilauea ........... 330 llil)
... San J.,uis Obispo.
King David's ...... 20fl San 1,11 i~ Ohis;1n
King Solomon 'R •••• 260 San PranrisC'o ....... S:-tn Franciseo.
La Fayette ........ 12G Scbnstopol ........... Sonoma.
La Mesrt ........... 407 La l\f es:1 ............. San Diego.
Lanc~istcr .......... 437 Lancm;trr ........... Los Angeles.
Landmark ......... 253 l\fadison ............. Yolo.
La P11Pnte ........ . .f±G I?ucnte

.............. Los .Angeles.

Las Palmas ........ 366 Ji'resno ............... Fresno.
Lassen ............ 149 Susanville .......... Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows ..............Glenn.

GRAND LODGE OF
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

CALIFOI~X!A

County.

Lexington ......... lM El Monte ........... Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 290 Santa Clara .......... Santa Clara.
Lindsay ........... 41G Lirnlsay ............. Tulare.
Live Oak . . . . . . . . . 61 Oaklarnl ............. Alamc<la.
Lodi .............. 256 I,o,Ji ................ San .Joaquin.
Lompoc ........ .' .. 2G2 Lompoc .............. Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angele~.
Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angdcs ......... Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos ........... l\1crcec1.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton ............ Sierra.
Madera ............ 280 l\f:Jdera .............. l\faclera.
Madison ........... 23 Grass Valley ......... N"evada.
Magnolia .......... 24'.l San ta Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Maricopa .......... 43"1 1\rarieopa ........... Kern.
Marin ............. 191 San Hafod .......... Marin.
Mariposa .......... 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martine;o .......... -H l\fartinrz ............ Contra Costa.
Maxwell ........... 288 l\Iaxwcll ............. Colusa.
McC:loml .......... 4:30 ]\fr( 'lou11 ............. ::li:;Joiyou.
l\icKinley .......... 34 7 nic 11111 OlHl . . . . . . . . . . . Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 l\frrnlocino .......... 1\[ cndocino.
Meridian ..... ·..... 182 Arl.rncklc ............ Colusa.
Midway ............ 42G Taft ................ Korn.
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Franeisco ........ San Francisco.
~izpah ............ 378 I~os AngPles ......... Los Ange1es .
Mokelurnne Hill .... 298 l\fokelumne Hill ...... Calavnas.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama ............. 'l'eharna.
Moneta ........... .405 J,os A ngelcs ......... Los Angeles .
Montc·bc'llo ........ +.:>1 Mo11tcl>cllo .......... L:is ,\11gclcs.
Monrovia ......... 308 l\fonroYia ............ Los Angeles.
Monterey .......... 217 l\Ionterey ............ Monterey.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton ............ San .Joaquin.
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore ........... Alamc<la.
lVIount Dinh lo ...... '1 l8 (',,w·onl ............. ('(lntra Costa.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Gnerneville .......... Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ..... 44 San Francisco ........ San Ji'rancisco.
Mountain Shade ... 18 Do\\·nicville .......... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Natoma ........... 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.

261

262

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Needles ............ 326 Needles ............. San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City ......... Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Paskenta ............ Tehama.
Nicolaus .......... 129 Wheatland ........... Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley ............. Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell ........ ,Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ............. Shasta.
North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ........... Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ............ Los Angeles.
Oakdale ........... 275 Oakdale ............. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ......... 215 Alameda ............. Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park ....... 369 Oceanpark ............ Los Angeles.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ........... San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 Tulare .............. Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario ........... 301 Ontario ............. San Bernardino.
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's .. '. ......... Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange .............. Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Orland ............ 265 Orland .............. Glenn.
Orosi .... '......... 383 Orosi ................ Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
Pacific ............ 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove ......... Monterey.
Pacific ............ 136 Watsonville ..........Santa Cruz.
Palestine .......... 351 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Palmyra . . . . . . . . . . 26 Placerville ........... El Dorado.
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto ............ San ta Clara.
Palos Verdes ....... 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union .... 17 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Park .............. 449 San Francisco ........ San Franci~co.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles ..........San Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ............. ,.Placer.
Pentalpha ......... 202 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Perris ............ .411 Perris ............... Riverside.
Petaluma .......... 180 Petaluma ............ Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino . . . . . San Bernardino.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOitNIA
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Pinole ............. 353 Pinole ............... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .......... 429 Pittsburg ............ Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Quincy .............. Plumas.
Pomona ........... 246 Pomona ............. Los Angeles.
Porterville ......... 303 Porterville .......... , Tulare.
Presidio ........... 354 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Reading ........... 254 Redding ............. Shasta.
Redlands .......... 300 Redlands ............. San Bernardino.
Redondo ........... 328 Redondo ............. Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City ........ San Mateo.
Reedley ........... 304 Reedley ............. Fresno.
Richmond ......... 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista .......... 208 Rio Vista ............ Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star ........ 83 Forest Hill .......... Placer.
Rose's Bar . . . . . . . . . 89 Smarts ville ...........Yuba.
Roseville ........... 433 Roseville ..............Placer.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ............. Sonoma.
Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ........... Napa.
Saint John's •...... 37 Yreka .............. ,Siskiyou.
Salinas ............ 204 Salinas .............. Monterey.
San Benito ... : ..... 211 Hgllister ............. San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura ............. Ventura.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego ........... San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas ........... Los Angeles.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger .............. Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino ...... San Bernardino.
Sa:n Fernando ...... 343 Fernando ............ Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ......... Riverside.
San Joaquin ....... 19 Stockton ........... ,,San Joaquin.
San Jose ........... 10 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo ........... San Mateo.
San Miguel ....... 285 San Miguel .......... San Luis Obispo.
San Pasqual ....... .452 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
San Pedro ......... 332 San Pedro ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana ......... 241 Santa An'\ ........... Orange.
Santa Barbara ..... 192 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ....... 302 Kings City ......... Monterey.
Santa Monica ...... 307 Santa Monica ........ Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ....... 291 Santa Paula ......... Ventura.
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... Sonoma.

263

264

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
San Simeon ....... 19G Cambria ............. San Luis Obispo.
~(·licti(•ld
. . . . . . . -~ -J-:1 ;-·h·lH•fi:•ld 'B:ll'l'if(·ks ... l i;1_\\·:di;u1 Tcr.
Selma ............. 277 Selma ............... Fresno.
Sequoia .....•...... 349 Oaklan<l ............. Alameda.
Sierra -:\fad re ....... 403 Sicrrn }.fodre ......... Los A ngclcs.
Sierra Valley ...... 18·4 SiE'rraville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon ............... Solano.
Silver Gate ........ 296 San
........... San Diego.
Siker Tron·cl. ..... .41;3 Los A ngelcs .......... Los c\ngeles.
Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville .......... Plnmas.
Sisson ............. 310 Sisson ........•...... Siskiyou.
Snow !fountain .... 211
Ford .......... Colusa.
Solano ........... 229 Vallejo •............. Solano.
Sotoyorne .......... 123 H{'a]dsburg ......... 8onoma.
Southern California. 278 Los Angek,; .......... Los Angeles.
South Gate ..•..... 320 Los Angeles .........,l,os Angeles.
South Pasarlena .... 367 South Pasadena ...... Los A.ngeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ........ San Franci~co.
South West ........ 283 National City ........ San Diego.
Speranza Italian a ... 219 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
t'\tarnl:ud
On kland ............ ,\Jmncda.
Stanislaus ......... 206 Modesto ........•..•. Stanislaus.
Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco .....•.. San Francisco.
Suisun ............ 55 Suisun .............. Solano.
Summit ........... 112 Knights Ferry ....... Stanislaus.
Sunset ............. 352 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .... 235 Cedarville ........... Mocloc.
"fable Mountain .... 124 Cherokee ............ Butte.
Tehachapi ......... 313 Tehachapi ........... Kern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . • . • 3 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona .............. Riverside.
Temple ............ 14 Sonoma ............. Sonoma.
Texas ........•.... 4G San Juan ........... San Benito.
Torrn11('f'

. . . . . . . . . '117 'l'orr:tllCC ............. Lns .\n;~ekH.

Traver ..•......... 2\\4 Kingsburg .........•. Fresno.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville .......... 'rrinity.
Truckee ........... 200 Truck co ............. N cvada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora ............... 'l'nolumne.
Turlock ............ 395 Turlock ............. Stanislaus.
Tuscan ........•... 261 \Villiams ............ Colusa.
Tyrian . . . . . . . . . . 4-30 l\I;intcra ............ Snn Joaqnin.
Union ............. 58 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 GlC'ndale ...........•. Los Angeles.

l

GIL~ND

ALI'HABETIC,U, LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.

Xo.

LODGE OF CALIFOH.NIA

Po;.;t OiHce.

County.

University ......... 394 J;os Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Upland ............ .419
.............. tfan Bcrnanlino.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville ............ Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles ........ .,Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 13;3 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Vau Nnys ......... ,"1:i0 Vau x~1:·~ ........... Lo'-> Angt:lC's.
Vesper ............ 84 Heu Bluff ............ Tehama.
Veteran ........... 373 Sawtelle ............. Los Angeles.
Visalia ............ 123 Visalia .............. 'l'ularc.
Vitruvius .......... H5 Bloornfic!tl ........... Sonoma.
Volcano .......•..• 56 Volcano •............ Amador.
Washington ...•.... 20 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Waucoha ......... .413 Dig Pino ............. Inyo.
Welcome ....... ~ .. . 255 Le1noore ...... ~ ..... Kings.
Western Star . . . . . . 2 Shasta ...........•.. Shasta.
West Gate ......... 335 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Whittier •.•........ 323 \Vhittic>· ............. Los Angeles.
Willits •.•.......... 365 \Villi ts ............. J\Icrn1ocino.
Wilmington ........ 19S -Wilmington .......... Los Angeles.
·wilshirc ......... .-1-1.) Lo~ .\ i:g<'lcs .......... Ln.-: n;_~clcs.
Winnedumah •...... 237 Bishop .............. Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ......... San Joaquin.
Woodland ...•...... 156 WoodlanJ ......•.•.. Yolo. ·
Yerba Buena ....... 403 Oaklaml ............. Alameda.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo ................ Yolo.
York ............. ..-12:'1 ·watts ............... I,os Angelos.
Yosemite .......... 09 :\[prct•d . . . . . . . . . . . . J\forccd.
Yount ............. 12 Napa ................ Rapa.
Yuba .............. 39 Marysville ........... Yuba.

265

266

LOCATION OF LODGES

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.

Post omce.
Lodge.
No.
A din ••..•.......••••.••• Adin ....................... 250
Alhambra .....••.....••• Alhambra ...•.............. 322
Alameda ....•....•.••••• Oak Grove ...•.............. 215
''
.............. . Apollo ....................... 396
Alleghany ...•..••.....•. l!,orest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Alturas .•....•..•.•..... Alturas ......•............. 248
Anaheim ..........•••••• Anaheim ................... 207
Anderson ......••.••.•••• Mount Shasta ..•....•....••. 281
Angels Camp •••...•....• Bear Mountain •.••••.•....• 76
Antioch ................. Antioch .................... 175
Arroyo Grande •.••••..... Arroyo ...•........•........ 274
Auburn .........•.•..•••• Eureka ........•.•...•...... 16
Arbuckle .............•.. 1Yieridian ................... 182
Arcata .................. Arcata ..................... 106
Artesia .........•....•... Artesia .............•....... 377
Azusa ..•........••...... Azusa ..•....•.••.•.•....... 305
Bakersfield ...............Bakersfield ••••...•......... 224
Beckwith .•............•• Hope ....................... 234
Benicia .................•Benicia •. , . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley •.•..........•.• Durant .......•............. 268
Berkeley ..•••.•••...•..• Berkeley •.................. 363
Berkeley ................ Charter Rock ............... 410
Big Pine ................ W aucoba ................... 413
Biggs ...•..........•.... Emmanuel .................. 318
Bishop ••..............•• Winnedumah ............... 287
Bloomfield ...•.......•..• Vitruvius .................. 145
Bodie .......•..•.•..•..• .Bodie ...................... 252
Brawley ...• , .••.•......• Brawley .... : ....•.......... 402
Brentwood , .••.•••••••.•. Brentwood ••••...•.•....... 345
Bridgeport ...............Alta ........•.....•.•...... 333
Buena Park ........••.••• Buena Park .........•...... 357
Burbank •• , ....• , ........ Burbank .................. , .406
Burlingame .............. Burlingame ................ .400
Calexico ................. Calexico .................... 412
Calistoga .........••••..• Calistoga .••...•.........•.• 233
Cambria •.•••..••••.•••.• San Simeon ..••............. 196

L

GRA::-.D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

No.
Post O!Ilce.
Lodge.
Campbell •......••••••.•• Charity •••..•.•....•.•...•. 362
Campton ville •.....•..••. Gravel Range •.•.......••. • • 59
. t .
444
Carpinteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Carpm
errn ... · ... · .. · · · · · · ·
Castroville •........••• , •• Confidence ......•..•....•... 203
Cedarville ............... Surprise Valley ............. 235
Centerville ............... Alameda ............ · .. · · · .167
Cherokee •.••..•.•• , •••• , Table Mountain ..........•. 124
Chinese Camp ..•.•• , •••• ,George Washington .....•... 62
Chico .........•••••••••••Chico ...•..............•... 111
Chino ..........•.•••••.•.Chino Valley ............... .427
C1aremont ................ ,Clarem9nt ~ ... · ... · · · · · · · · · · .436
Cloverdale· .•.•...••••.••• Curtis · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · ·. l40
Clovis ................... Clovis ..................... .417
Coalillga ................ . Coalinga ...... · · · · · · · · · · · .. . 387
Colfax •...•..•.•••.••• , ..Illinoistown .......•........ 51
Corona .......•.•. , .••••• Temescal ................... 314
Courtland •.......• •• •• • ..Franklin ...........•.....•. 143
Covelo •••..•..•..•• • • • • •• Covclo
.•..................231
Colusa
•• Colusa •.......•...... • • · · • · .240
Colton ..••••.••.••••• • •• .Ashlar ....................•. 306
·
................ • Covina .....•.............•. 334
Cov1na ................. ..
Compton ...•.•..• •• ••• • ••Anchor .....................273
Coloma .......••.••••••••• .\eaeia ........... · . · · · • • · · · · 92
Concord ..................Mt. Diablo · · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · .448
Corning .......••..•••••• Olivet ..... · ·. · · · · · · · · • · · · · · 364
Coronado ................ Coronado ..... · . · · · · · · · · · · · .441
Crescent City .. , .•••••••• Crescent ..... · · · · · · · · · · • · · • 45
Crockett •..•.•..••• •' '• ..Carquinez ................... 337
Davisville •••••.••••••••• Athens •.. · ... · · · · · · · · • · · · · · 22.8
Delano .................. . Delano ...... ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · .309
Dinuba .................... . Dinuba ........... ·. · · · · · · · · .385
Dixon ...•..••.•••••••••• Silveyville .....•.... • · · · · · · · 201
Downey ... • ....... • • • • • .Downey ..................... 220
Downieville .......... , •• ,Mountain Shade ..... • • • · · • • 18
Dutch Flat •....••.••••.. Clay .. · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • .. 101
Dunsmuir ...... , . , •.•••. ,Dunsmuir ........ · · · · · · · · · · · 297
Eagle Rock
.
Eagle Rock ...• ·. · ... · · • · · · .422
East Oaklan.d ·:: ..-::::.·.· .....-:Brooklyn ....... ·. · · · · · · · · · .225
Elk Grove •.... , •••..•••• Elk Grove ........ · · · · · · · · · .173
Elsinore
Elsinore ........... · · · · · · · · · 289
El Centro. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :El Centro ..........•..... · • · 384
El Dorado •.•••••••••• , •• Hiram .....•. · · · · • · · · · · • • · · 43
El Monte •• , •••• , •••••• , ,Lexington •....•.. · · · · · · · · • .104

268

LOC.\TION
Post Ofllee.

~(L

J.odge.

~scon~i'.1"' .......•..•..... Consuelo ................... 32[.
M11a "ftll ....•.•...•...•• Evening Star .............. 186
70
l•:urelrn. ...........•..•... Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1

~~:;lc '.· • · • • • • · • • • • • • •• • ••• l;xetcr ................. : : : : 12.1

Ii'. • lJ oo k · .......•••...•.:E al!hroo k ................... :n;
.' l'!'nando
F
1 . ...........•••.• San Fernando
.
................34""
• crrn ale ........... • .. • • .l<'crrnlalc . . . . . . . . .
1ll"0
E1 i1hnorc
-,. 1
• • • • • • • • • • •
·,
· .........••..... } 11,rnore .................... 37!!
l~orbestown .............. Forbcstown ................. 51 ,

} olsom ......•.....•.•••• Natoma
u4
Bidwell ............• North F.a·s~.:::::::::::::::: :2li6

F11rt

Fort
· · · · · · · ~ ~ ...... ~-,ort I1raO'C' .•............... 361
Port Jon('s ...........•.•. "'
:c-T01-t.•l1 "i='•,.~.:._·r' ................. ~ll
F'orcst Hill .............. Hising ::>tar ................. 83
Fortt111a ..............•.. Eel .Hin;r .................. l-17
.Fon·ler .................• Fowler ..................... 3118
Prl'sno ...•......••..•. • •.Fn?sno ..................... 247
"
· • · • .............. Laf1 ·Palmns
3GC
FulJr.rton ..............•• Fullrrton .. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Galt .............. • •....•Galt ........................ 267
Gardena ............•..•• Gardena .................... 372
Grorg·rtown .........••.•• G('orgrtown ................. 25
~ilroy ..........•.......• Keith ...................... 187
Cdc1111ulc ••..•.•..••••.••• Unity ..................... 368
Gle11,lorn ..•....••..••••. Glendora ................ : .. 404
Grafton ..........•...•.. Grnfton . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
HI
Grass Vall<'y ......•..•••• J\fa11ison . . .
. ... oo

:;30

Gr~enYi11c

..........•..•• Sincerity .. ~~~~~~~~~~:~:~~~~];;~

Grnlky .............•..•. North Entfr ................ 230
Gw11lalupe ......•..•.•.•• Guadalupe .................. 2:n
Guerneville .............. J\fonnt .Tnckson ............ 295
ilarnrnontou ••........... -rr:1111n:onton ·..
13?

IIanfonl ....... • ....• • • •. ITanforr! . . . .
I

.

. .......... ·'2·7·9'

. ............... .

r ay\Yanls ....•.......... Eucalyptus ................. 243
lI rnldsburg ......•....... Sotoyome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12:J
1
' i !o. T. Ii ................KiL'.HH'a . . • •
. .330
IT
-.
.
• ...•...•.•••.•••
'
· on~Los ................. llornitos .................. 9S
Hollister ................. San B1•nito ................. 211
UollywocHl ...........•... Hollywooil .............•.... 355
lfoltvillc ................. Holh·il.le .................. .42:)
llnno!r;Jq, •r. II .......... ITawaiinn .................. 21
Ii;11;11!,,l1~

ri·. I; .... , .... , ..OCC'anie

Jf~i!!t\!11lt1. r1·. Ir .......... .ITnnolu11 1

269

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OF LODGE;;

...•.•...•..•.•.... . 371
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 409

Post Office.

I,odge.

No.

Huntington Beach •.••.••• Huntington Beach .. • •. · ·. · · .380
">fl'"'
Huntington Park .......... Rising Light .. · ·. · · · · · · · · · · "'·'
rgo ..............•.•.•••• Clinton ............... · ... · . l l!1
Imperial ................. Imperial .............. ·. · · · · 390
Independence ...•.....•••Inyo ...•.. · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .221
42;
Inglewood ... ~ ..... ,. ...... Inglewood ... · · · ~ · · · · · · · · · · ·
Jone ..................... Ione ..•......... · ·. · · · · · · · · 80
Jackson ...........•..•.. A.mador .......... ·. · · · · · · · · 6fl
Janesville .........•.....• J anesvi1le ........ · •. · . · · · · · 232
Kerman .................. Fresno ........ ·. · ·. · · · · · • · .420
·n sb g
•rraver •................... · 29-1
K 1 g nr .....•..••..•.•
Kings City ...........•••• Santa Lucia ........ · · · · · · · .302
Knights Ferry ........... Summit ........ · · · · · · · · · · · .. 112
Lakeport ..•......••••.•• Hartley · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 19\\
La J\fesa ................ lia l'viesa ............ · · .. · · · .407
Lancaster ................Lancaster ........ · ...... · · .437
Laporte ......••....••.•. Jefferson ......... ·. · · ·. ·. · · 97
Lemoore ....•.....•....•• Welcome •........ · · · · · · · · · · 25.5
Lincoln ........••....•••• Gold Hill ........ · · . · · · · · · · · 32
Unden ...........•.•••.• Valley ......... · · ·. · · · · · · · .. 135
Lindsav ................. Lindsay •.............. ·. · · .41G
Lh·er~ore ............•••:Moi;aic ..... · . · · · · · · · · · · • · · 218
Lodi .......•..•....••..••. Lodi . . . . . . . . . ............. 256
Lompoc ..•......•.••.••.. Lompoc ........ · . · · · · · · · · · · .262
Lower Lake ............. Clear Lake ..... ·. · · .. · · · · · .. 18::1
327
I ong Beach
Long Beach .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Palos Verdes ................ 389
0

'

"

.............

Los Angeles : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Los Angeles ......... · .. · · · · 42
''
...•.....•..•.'Wilmington ................. l\l8
"
Pentalpha .................. 202
•'
.•.•....••.••• Southern California ......... 278
''
..••...••.•..• East Gate ...............•.. 290
'•
........••••.• Hollenbeck ................. 319
''
........•..••. South Gate ................. 320
••
...••...•..... Vall('e de France ............ 329
"
...•..•.....•. \~est Gate .................. 335
'•
.........•••.• Palestine •.................. 331
"
''

"

: : : : : : : : : : : : : :sunset ..................... 352
Golden State ................ 358
...•.....•..•• 'Mizpah ..................... 378
: . : : : : : : : : : : : : IIig11land Park .............. 382
.•••••.•.•.•.. vV est Lake .................. 392
.............. UniYersity .................. 394

270

LOCAT101'

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles ..............l\foneta .................•... 4 o5
.............. Arlington .................. 414
· · · · .......... Silver Trowel. .............. 415

"
"

· ..........•.• Elysian .................... .418
· · · ........... Germania .................. 438
• • • · ..•••••..• \Vilshire

271

GRAND LODGE O.F CALIFORNIA

OF LODGES

.................. .445

Los Banos · .............• Los Banos .................. 312
Los Gatos .........••..• •.Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton .................Loyalton ..............•.... 35!l
Manteca .................Tyrian ..................... 439
Maricopa ............... Maricopa .................. 434
l\farysville .....•......••. Corinthian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
''
·~····· ....... Yuba ... ~ ....................... 39
Madison ........•.• • •.•.• Landmark .................• 253
Maxwell · · • · · · .....•.•... lfaxwell .................... 288
Madera " •.....•....•.••. •Madera ..................... 280
Mariposa
..........••.... Mariposa . . . . .............. . 24
M
.
f artmez ..•......••..... .Martinez . . . ................ . 41
1\
M cCloud · · · · · · · · · · · ..... ~fcCloud . . . ............... . 430
M e.rced . .................. Yosemite .. . . .............. . 99
~ndocrno • · · · · · · • • · • · · ..JVfondocino ................. 179
Middletown ....•.•....•••Cal!ayomi .................. 282
Milton ........•.•..•..•••Keystone ......... , ......... 161
M~ll yalley .............. Mill Valley ................. 356
M11lvdle ...•....••....••• Northern Light ............. 190
~fokelumne Hill ••••....•• Mokelumne Hill ...•........ 298
i>fonrovia ......•..••••. , .:Monrovia ................... 308
Montebello .............. Montebello ................. 451

.Monterey .•.....•.••..... l\fonterey ................... 217
Mountain View •...•...••• Mountain View ............. 194
;\fodesto •....•....•....•. Stanislaus . . .
206
MurFhy's ................ Ophir ....... ::::::::::::::: 33
National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa ...........•.....•••Yount . . . . . . .
12
Newman .................Hill's Ferry . :: : : : :: : : : ::: ::236
Needles .................. Needles . . . .
326
Nevada City ............. Nevada .... :::::::::::::::: 13
Norwalk ................. Norwalk ................... 315
Oakland ...........•.•... Live Oak .................. 61
''
· · · ................... Oakland ................... ~ . 188
''
.................. . Broolclyn ................ ~ ... . 225

'· · · · · · · .. , .... ,,Sequoia , . , . t , , , , , , , , . , , , , , ,349

Post Office.

J,odge.

No.

Oakland ................. Alcatraz ..•..•......•....... 244
''
•. , •..••....•.•• ,Pruitvale ................... 336
'•
...•.......•.••.• Bay View .......•......... .401
"
..........••....• Yerba Buena .........•...... 403
•'
•••...••.•....•••• Standard .................. .±40
Oakdale ................. Oakdale .................... 275
Oceanpark ................ Ocean Park ................ 369
Oceanside •..••••.••••••••Oceanside ...........•••... · 381
Ontario .................. Ontario .................... 301
Orange ...•..••••..•••••• Orange Grove •.............. 293
Orland .......•••••••••.• Orland ••.........•..••..... 261'
Orosi ......•....••••...••Orosi .........•.•........... 383
Oroville ..••.•..••••.•••• Oroville .......•.•.......... 102
Oxnard .......•.•.••••.•• Oxnard .•........ · · · · · · · · · · 3'JJ
Pacific Grove ....••••••.• Pacific Grove ..•............ 33J
Palo Alto ................ Palo Alto .................. 346
Paskenta ...............•• Newville ................. · · 201'
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ................ 286
Pasadena ...•.......•...• Pasadena ...•........•..... 272
Pasadena •.....•••..•..•• Corona ..................... 324
Pasadena ................ San Pasqual ................ 452
Paskenta ................. Newville ................... 205
Penryn •••...•..•..•...•• Penrhyn ....................258
Perris ....••..•.....•...•.Perris ...................... 411
Petaluma •...•••••••••••• Petaluma •................. 180
Pinole ..••....•..•.••. , •• Pinole ..................•.. 353
Pittsburg .............•.• Pittsburg ............ · · .... .429
Pleasanton .••.•....•••.•• Alisa! ......•............... 321
Placerville ....••••••....• Palmyra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Plymouth ................ Drytown ................... 174
Point Arena ........••••• Claiborne .................• 185
Pomona ......•.••.•••.•• .Pomona .................... 246
Porterville •••....•••••..• Porterville ................• 303
Puente .................. La Puente .................. 446
Quincy •....•..•••••••.•• Plumas ...............••... 60
Redondo .•••••.••.••....• Redondo ••..........•.•.•.. 328
Redding ....••.••.•...•.. Reading .......•....••...... 254
Redlands .....•••.....••. Redlands .....•..•.........• 300
Reedley ....••.••.•..•... Reedley ...........•....•... 304
Redwood City •••.•••••.•• Redwood City .......•..•... 168
Red Blulf •....••.•.....•• Vesper . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Richmond ......•.•....... Alpha ..................... · 431
Richmond ............... McKinley .................. 347

UX~A TION

272
Post Office.

OF LODGES

GRAND l.ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Rio Vista ............•••. Rio Vista .................. 208
Riverside ..............•• Evergreen .................. 259
Rocklin ..............••. Granite ..................... 222
Hoseville ................ Roseville .................. .432
Sacrarnen to ........•....• 'l'eharna ......... , . . . . . . . . . . 3
"
.............. Washington ................ 20
"
.............. Sacramento ................. 40
''
................ Union .......••............. 58
''
· ................ Concor(l ...•..........•..... 117
Saint Helena ........•... Saint Helena ............... 93
San Andreas ..•.........• Calaveras .................. 78
San Bernardino ............ Phoenix: .......................... 178
"
.......••. San Bernardino ............. 348
San Diego ..............• San Diego .................... 35
.............•. Silver Gate ................. 296
............... Blackmer ................. .442
"
ban 1Jimas .............. :San Dimas .................. 428
San Francisco ........•••• California . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 1
''
.•......•... Parfaite Union ....•••...... 17
"
............ Occidental ................. 22
''
....•.•••... Golden Gate • . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . 30
"
............. Mount Moriah •.•...•....... 44
''
............. Fidelity ..................... 120
''
................. Hermann ....................... 127
''
................. Pacific ... ., ................. 136
''
.............. Crockett ..................... 139
''
................... Oriental ......... ., ............. 144
''
................ Excelsior ..................... 166
''
............... Mission ...................... 169
''
............... South San Francisco ..... * •• 212
''
................. Doric ......................... 216
"
........... ".Speranza Italiana .............. 219
''
•..••..••••• King Solomon's ................ 260
''
............... Starr King ................... 344
''
................. Presidio .......
354
''
..... " .......... San Francisco ................ 360
''
............... Amity ....................... 370
''
.............. Jewel .................
374
''
.............. Rich1nond .................... 375
''
............... Parnassus .......................... 388
''
............. BaJder ............... ~ ........ 393
''
.•......• ,. .• Fairn1oun t ................. 435
9

...............

9

'~

••••••

, , " .............. Parle ................•...... 4:49

Post Office.

Lodge.

273
No.

San Jacinto .............. San Jacinto ................ 338
San Jose ......•.....•.... San Jose ................... 10
''
................. ,. ••• 11riendship ... ~ ..•........•. 210
"'
.................. Fraternity .. ·····~··········399
San Juan ...............• Texas ...................... 46
San Leandro ...•.•....•.. Ellen ....................... 113
San Luis Obispo ..•......• King David's ............... 209
San Mateo ............... San 11:ateo ................. 226
San Miguel ...............San Miguel ................. 285
San Peuro .........•••..•.San Pedro .................. 332
San Rafael .•.......•..... Marin ...................... 191
Santa Ana ......•.•.....• Santa Ana ..................241
Santa Barbara ...•....••• Santa Barbara ..•........... 192
''
.......... ~ •. 1'.Iagnolia .................... 242
Santa Cruz ....••••....... Santa Cruz ................. 38
Santa Clara .............. Liberty .................... 299
Santa Maria .........•... Hesperian .................. 264
Santa Monica. ............ Santa Monica ............... 30i
Santa Paula .............. Santa Panla ................ 291
Santa Rosa. .....••..•...• Santa Rosa ..•.............. 57
Salinas· ........•..•..••.• Salinas ......•.............. 204
8ang<>r ................•..Sanger ...................... 316
Sawtelle ...••..........•• Veteran .................... 373
Srhofic>ld Jfarracks ........,Schofiern .................. ..14.3
Sebastopol ......••.....•• La Fayette ................. 126
Selma ..........•....•••• Selma ...................... 277
Shasta ................... Western Star .. .. .. . . .. . . . .. 2
Sierra City ..............• Harmony ............•...... 164
Sierra Madre ............. Sierra Madre .............. .408
Sierraville .....•..••.•.•• Sierra Valley ............... 184
Sisson .....•...•....•..••.Sisson .............•.•... ·... 310
Smartsville ••.•.......... .Rose's Bar • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 89
South Pasadena •.....•.... South Pasadena ..•.......... 367
South San Francisco ..•.... Francis Drake .............. 376
Sonoma •................. Temple .....•............... 14
Sonora ......•............ Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 8
Stockton .....••••.....•.• Sau Joaquin ............... 19
1lorning Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Stony Ford ...•.••.•..••• Snow Mountain ............. 271
Susanville ...•.....•.•.•• Lassen ......••••........... 149
Sutter Creek ............. Henry Clay ................. 95
Suisun ..•......••••.••.•.Suisun • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • 55
''

........

5

.............

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

274
P.:ist Office.

Lodge.

No.

Taft ...........•.•..••.•• Midway .................... 426
Tehama .....• , .•.••••.•••Molino .....•............... 150
Tehachapi ......•.••••••• Tehachapi ......•......•.•.. 313
Torrance .................Torrance .................. .447
Truckee ..•.....••••••••• Truckee .................... 200
Tulare .......••..•..•..•. Olive Branch ............... 269
Tuolumne ................ East Belt .................. 391
Turlock .................. Turlock .................... 395
Ukiah .........•••.•••••. Al-iell •...............•.•... 146
Upland .................. Upland ..................... 419
Vallejo ...••••....•.••••• Naval ...................... 87
''
.................. Solano ..................... 229
Vacaville •....••..•..•.•• Vacaville ................... 134
Van Nuys ............... Van Nuys .................. 450
Ventura ...•.•.••.••••••• San Buenaventura ........... 214
Visalia .........•..•••••• Visalia ..•.............•.... 128
Volcano ........•.••••••• Volcano • . . . . . • . • • . . . . . . . . . • 56
\Valnut Creek ............ Alamo ...................... 122
Watsonville .............. Pajaro ..................... 110
Watts ................•..• York ....................... 423
Weaverville •....•••••••• Trinity ........•.. ·: .•. ..... 27
Wheatland ..•.••..••.•••• Nicolaus .....••..•..... 1 • • • 129
Whittier •.•...•.••.•..••• Whittier .•..••.•.......••... 323
Winters ...•..•••..••••.• Buckeye ....................195
Willits ......••••...•••.• Willits ...•.•..•...•........ 365
Willows •..•.••.•••••••.• ,Laurel •..•..............•.. 245
Windsor •..•••••••..••••. Russian River ....•••••••.•.. 181
Williams ..••••••.....••••Tuscan •••..•...........•... 261
Wilmington •..•••.••••••• Wilmington •.••..•.•....•... 198
Woodbridge •••••....•••• Woodbridge •.......•...••.. 131
Woodland ...••...•....•. Woodland ...••..•••••••.... 156
Yolo •.....•••••.•••.••••. Yolo .••.•.•••..•.•••••..•.• 81
Yreka ................... St. John's ...•......••...... 37
''
.................. . Howard .................... 96
Yuba City •...•••.••••.•• Enterprise •......•••••...... 70

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER., 1914

Bv EDWARD H. HART, P. G. M

To THE GR.\NJJ L<rnGE f. & A. l\I. oF CALJFORNIA,
ANIJ BRETHREN OF THlS }t:RISDICTJON:

INTRODUCTION.
I submit herewith my sixth annual report on fraternal Corre·
spondence, which includes a review of sixty-one jurisdictions, being
those whose proceedings arc printed in the English language, excepting those of Nevada, Montana, Utah and Scotland, 1914, whose
volumes of proceedings have not reached us.
The proceedings reviewed are as follows:
LODGE-

YEAR.

Alabama ...................................... .191."l
Alberta ........................................ .1914
Arizona ........................................ 1914
Arkansas ...................................... 1913
British Columbia ....................... .1914
Canada .......................................... 1913
Colorado ............... .................. .1913
Connecticut
............................. 1914
Delaware .................................. .1913
District of Columbia.. ......... .1913
England
................. ... .1913
Florida
................
......... .1914
Georgia
................ .1913
Idaho ............................................ 1913
Illinois .......................................... 1913

LODGE-

YEAR.

Indiana .......
........................ 1914
Iowa .
.............................. .1914
Ireland
..................... .1913
Kansas ....................................... 1914
Kentucky
....................... .1913
Louisiana
..... .1914
l\Iaine .
........................ 1914
Manitoba ...................................... 1914
Maryland ...................................... 1913
l\Iassachusetts ............................ 1913
:.fichigan .................................... .1914
:.rinnesota .................................... 1914
.:\fississippi .................................. 1914
l\Iissouri ...................................... 1913
New Brunswick ....................... .1913

'
Hl£POHT ON CORRESPONDENCK

2
LODGF,-

YF,.\R.

'.\cw I lampshirc
.... .1914
Xcw Jersey
................... .1914
X cw l\T cxico
. 19Ll
'.\cw South \\'ales .................... 1913
Xew York
........ 1914
'.\cw Zczilllncl
..................... 191.1
Xorth Carolina ........... .
1914
Xnrth Dakota ......................... 1913
\'m·a Scotia .............
..1913
Ohio
.
. ..................... 1913
Oklalrnma ............. . ................ 1914
Oregon ................................. 1914
Pennsyh·ania .......... ..... .
.19Ll
l'hilippinc Islands ................... 1914
Prince Eel ward lslamL
.... .191.l
Qnclicc .
. ............................ 1914

3
YE.\R.

LOllGC-

Rhoclc T,Jand
~~;tska tclw\\·;1 n
Sorlh .\n:;tralia
South Carolina
South Dakt'ta
Tcnnc:;:;.c
Tc-xa~

Vermont
Victoria
\rirp:ini:t
\Ya~!1i11gtnn

\ \'c:c!crn .\ 11:;tralia
\\'c:;t Virginia
\\·l~rnn'.-in
\ \' }'lllll; llf'

l ) 13

.... 1913
... 1914
........ 1914
............... 191:!
..... .1914
.1914
..... 191.'
................ 1914
..... 1913
......... 1913
.. 1913
...... 1913
........... 1913
.. 19Ll
......... 1913

l'Jl .j

j j

1.,'-:-l()

-to

1·1.

].j()

,; -L~' .l.l

1,7\)-~

2..:1
(),..?.13

::.us

312
I L1lil
.+.3S~

·' :

'

_,:1::,i
.n,~ J

.'11()

, (1/

.-)"_,

_:;;·1

.!i-\,llK..'.
3.(13(1

N-1-(J
1')1

S ..\;-.;_;

~R.J

(1, ,; ~ -1-

,:l()~

J; .I ]\J

~· :--:

1.:; . i \1~.:.

:i.~J,"0

2H
3-+ !

:- .n ~ l
-+ •.l'J'1
1.!. ~ ')

1.?J.'l)

~.--L" i-

GEXE!LIL T.\l'Ll'.

I.I 13

The follr1wing· talik o:lwws th· num11cr of nwmlicrs as per last
report at hand, and as c'1mparecl with Jaq prior report:

1(1,(])(1

17

; ,..'.!13

FJl3

Florida
(;eorgi:-t

J(bho
Illinois
Indiana
T<nva
Kansas
Kentuckv

Loui~·ian·a

1,-lR~

.-i.fJj ')

](,]

1..'..31 ()
I.I

J 2,31 II
.11

C·ti11
639
lf).j

1,()--1-.2
607
3,.?R.~

3)~-1+

9.S(J0
11.·l.17
3:-<,--1-.?5
4,012

110.<JSr:
(10, 168
4S,<J97

L?.?,.?33
r,,i.n 15
47,.:::85

.18,877

--1-0,6G8
4[],,.J59
1.1, LI?
:? l,.'\7 7
1:../(1(1

9,317
111,7()-t
36,80()

3~.7~.?

1--1-.Sill

\ficl1iga~1

(i~.31)()

7.1
:?K.2
643

2.K67

1,.188
] ,791

..!(i,S-1-3

1 ~.<J.l I
55,737

l<i,103

172

58,237

2,500

~('

Yd_'

::\·c·

VALUABL:::: JNFOR!Vlt\TiON IN CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS.

1,677
6SO
.127
C)S3
~.-t-t()

<:c~

;:11p1-c~·'.-::ons

11.:?~3

3,3Sri

.11

110,'.?~~i-- -- '-1-1()~;-;3

n-:'l\· ;t {:·~.'.- <J:-:~ r" ( <,,::; c:1~1c('r;1'.11.-~· ccrt;1i;1
1-;tthcn d 111 c~.,_~t111;11:1;:, tl~c (~: ;;nrl L()d?c ProccTch1<.'S of th· ri::ot yc:;r.

-\Ye

168

(J3,__?I)()

110,.11.j

!

1,619

71 ,i S..!
21 . .JF

i-

:1

!

.111

.?' 1,3-Ll
l.J.XI .1
r,fl,Hl.J

).Iissouri

3R6
.J>'O

<1.?6

".\f ainc
'.\IJ.i-vla11il
?\ r;lsS:1c Ji 11;.;ct t ~
'.\linnc:-;ota
:\fississinpi

l'Jl.J

'

_:;_'()

\\'c ;;re indebted to tlL· Corrccpomkncc Committee of the Crane!
Lodge cf Xcw York for t:ic follo1·:irn; talik sho\\·iug the m1111l:er oi
:\[asons in the 1·arincs Crane! Jn·:"lictir n:; arnl the ~·r;rnrl totals, as per
List report, cornp;1recl 1Yith the prc1·icms report.
The liuur·.s for En:d:1nr1, Scritbrnl :111rl lrchnrl arc not gin·n for
the rcascon th;1t no authentic c.1mpihtit111 of the mcmlicrship of these
Crane! Lodges has. so far as we krnrn-. eyer liccn mac le:

.\laharna
. ';·kans;ls
i\rizona
California
Colorado
Conncctic11t
Delaw;i,rc
l)istrict of Columliia __

(;;tin

-------(i,-11111
}() __'.:)iJ

\Ye ~lfl· ;till <1i- tl~c i1nprc~·-.i '11 t!i;tt t1i_· rr11\·incc ( f t~ll' f'rat<:rn~t1
i:.; 1n inl.1nn r:1t11cr 1li: 11 ··:iii(·i;'.'. ::!~d 1111:.;, \\"C llC'licvc, i-:;
the IJL'!H'r;i] 1"11dl'1l('.\. i:1 r1._·n·11t r
1rh nf <'11~Tl':·'.\(Jlldv:11:.;: \\-c, abn,
ol)SL'r\'C a di111i111~·hi11~>, 11111111lCr nf :.(i-c:t11cd dcL·i~i,;11-:;, ;tnd s11ch ''dcc1s1011s" as one cnco1111tcrs in Cr;tnrl Lllclgc rcporh arc u'nzilly simply
CntTl'S))('1ld.·1d

'JO.J

'

1

2

H];]POitT ON COHRESPONDJI:NCK
LODGJ\-

YF..\H.

'\cw I lampshirc
'\cw Jersey __ ..... ________

LOllGf-

RJindc l:•l;1ml
~~<::-J~~l tchewan

Xcw l\lexico

1914
.. ____ J914
_J9i3

'.\:cw S:1nth \Vaks

_________ 1913

Sonth Can1li11a
So11th Daht;1

'\cw York
'\cw Zcalancl
X orth Carnlina

'\onh Dakota
X oya Scotia

Ohio

..... ··--

. ....

______________ 1914
.1913

Tl•xas

V ermow

.. 1S14
. __________________________ ......... 1914
Pcnnsyll'ania
1913
lsbnds
________ 1914
Prince Edwan\ T,;J;md.
____ 191.l

Oklal1nma

Oregon

_;; 17
~;75

- .. .1914

..

__ 1CJ11

1-li'

.1914
.1914

're111H.'SS,'C

... 1913

......... 1913

l '.) 13

Sorth .\ttstr;ili:i

.. 1914

. -----······· __ .-1913

3

1913
---·····--·······--1914
___ J9U

Victoria
_________ J9i3
Virginia
\\'a<1imtt1111 ___ -------------····· ......... 1913
\\'cskrn .\nstralia
____ .1913

West

1913

\\'i'Crlll'ill

.-1913

\\'y«1111ng

1913

_:;_·u

Qnclicc ........ ______________ . _____ __ 1914

~.,.\,(_)

] 'J 1

Committee of the Cra1:1l
Lodge
Xcw York' f._·r the fnl'<i\·:i1w tahk sho\\·i:ig the 11uml1cr of
\lasons in the yar;n1·s Crnml Jn 1'11ictic1io-; and the ~·r;tml totals, as per
1;1.,t report, compared n·ith the prnict::; report.
The fiffuLs for Ell'chnrl. Srntl:tnd ;1wi Trchnd are nnt giH'n for
the rc:1''1111 that 110 a111:1c11tic c.1mpilati(1n ,,f the memhcrship nf thcH:
Crand Lodges ha:;. so far a·• we kn:,\,-, C\Tr hccn made:
Cf'.:-lf'.IL\L

341

'l'.\rJ.L

Th,, foll»wim: table shows the m1mhcr of mc'lllins
n·pc'rt at h;rnd, an'd ;is rnmp;1 red with last prier report:

per hist
L?,3IU
Jl

c .__. rnin;~- cC'rLti:1
C:::nrl Lod 0:v

VALUP.SL':: INFOR!V!ATION !N CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS.

Fratenul
C~nrn.'~jH'1Hl-.-r1!

:r) in(;i·m r;;i_l:cr lh:~n

tlii:.;, \U. .' 1h·lic\·e. i~

111e µnH·r;d \cntl~'1lC>
nt r [''.:rh ()f
i~T~-:«!1n1Jth.'11t:.-:: we. also,
oh:-:c1Tc a dl11'1i11i~·hi11:1,- n1~;nh"T 11{ ··:1--c;ilh_,d
a~1d ~11c~1 "decisions''
one encu11nt<..'r"' i:1 Cr:nHl Lud;-J,·c r('port< an: u:-;~1ally ~1n1ply
i;;

··--------------------~~---------

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

an expos1t1on of local law. and rarely do these decisions touch fundamental principles, and forthcrmore, we may observe that practically no
so-called dccisic1cs appear in the Proceedings of the Grand Lodges
of England, Scotland or Ireland, and very seldom in. those of Australasia or British ·~·forth A mcrica.

noted for its conservatism, its respect and reverence for tradition,
for established usages and laws," and that in this age when there is
such a growing unrest and ofttimes a cr;l\·ing for change and a demand
for so-called "progress," J\lasonry constitutes a bulwark of social
and civic safety; and these are among the reasons why there should
be no yielding to this modern fancy for a General Grand Lodge, and
while these "Annual Conferences," five or six of which have already
been held, have always disclaimed the purpose of promoting the idea
oi a General Grand Lodge, yet in the language of the immortal Bard
of Avon, ":VIethinks she doth protest too mnch," and if there is no
purpose to propagate a General Grand Lodg·e idea, wherein lies the
necessity of 'Yiasons, bearing "Past Grand" titles, getting together each
year in elaborate conventions to thrash over the same old straw that
is thrashed at every one of these meetings? Some of those who have
been wont to assemble in these annual conferences, have
been more frank than others, and have openly espoused the General
Grand Lodge idea. and in one of the Cr~mcl Lodge reports, Oregon we
believe, the Grand Master reported the proceedings of the Indianapolis meeting under the caption in large letters in his report "GENERAL GRAND LODGE."
• It will. of course, be utterly impossible to create a General Grand
Lodge. Masonic tradition and sentiment, and :\fasonic Landmark;
are all against this proposition, nevertheless, in our judgment no good
arises from these annual conferences and Grand Lodges generally
ought to discourage them.

4

THE LITERARY EXCELLENCIES OF
REPORTS OF GRAND MASTERS, ETC.

The literary character of many of the annual addresses of Grand
J\fasters of the past year have hecn of a high order. which will well
repay any person's time devoted to their perusal. \Vithout invidious
distinction (becat·sc a large number of these productions are of a
high literary order), I call to mind the annual addresses of the Grand
l\iastcrs of Georgia, of Michigan, of \Visconsin, of ~ew York and
others.
).fany of the Correspondence Reports, arc noteworthy hecause of
information contained in the so-called "Introdnctions" or "Conclusions."
The Conclusion in the Florida report, hy Most ·worshipful Silas I3.
\Vright, Chairman of the committee, is foll of information that ::VIasons
generalJy would profit by reading, and in our report under Florida,
we have made lihcral qnotations from Brother \Vright's Conclusiou,
although it has been impossihk to quote the whole of it, but any
Master Mason may easily gain access to the whole of this report m
our Grand Lodge Library.
Admiral George W. Baird. Past Grand }faster of the District of
Columbia, and Chairman of the Correspondence Committee, appends an
excellent Condl'Sion to his Report, which is welJ worth careful
perusal.

The Committee on Jnri;;prudence of the Grand Lodge of N'cw
York this year makes this statement concerning this subject:
The subject of a General Grand Lodge in North America, and
particularly one embraced within the territorial limits of the
United States of America, has been frequently agitated. It was
first presented to this Grand Lodge nearly a hundred years ago; the
brethren who were then in life and active in the affairs of the
Fraternity gave it much study and consideration, but, believing it
not to be for our interest, declined to join in the movement. Their
attitude, together with that of the larger Jurisdictions. ended
the matter for a while, but the project has been revived a number
of times since, always with the same result. N cw York has
consistently held to its own sovereignty as an independent Grand
Lodge.
Your committee sees no reason why we should recede from that
position, and therefore recommends that no action be taken in
the matter. We arc now supreme in all things :Masonic within the
borders of the commonwealth of New York. Our authority here
is undisputed, and the brethren direct and control their own
affairs. To all yourselves with a General Grand Lodge, having
jurisdiction over all or a considerable portion of English-speaking
North America would be simply to surrender the power and
authority which is now ours, into the keeping of those who would
nece;;;sarily have but little appreciation of our local conditions

EFFORTS SQUINTING IN THE DIRECTION OF THE
CREATION OF A GENERAL GRAND LODGE.

The two subjects which have rcc::ivcd, perhaps, more attention
from the American Grand Jurisdictions within the past year than
any other matters (and those two subjects arc in a sense closely
related), are the Conierence of Grand :\fosters held in 1913 at Indianapolis, and the meeting of Grand }!asters held at Alexandria, Va., in
connection with the Memorial to George ·washington, the Mason.
Speaking for myself personally, ancl in no way presuming to voice
the se11timc11ts of our Gram! Lodge. I tfoagrcc with the wisdom of
these annual meetings, because· they seem to have a tendency to foster
the idea of a Supreme or Sovereign Grand Lodge. patterned after some
of the modern fraternal organizatiom. Masonry is not an imitator, and
as Grand ]\faster \Vheeler of Wisconsin said in his annual address on
June 9th of this year, at the opening of the Grand Lodge, "Masonry is

'

6

REPORT ON CORRESPOXDENCE.
and 1H'c(k
arc free.

S1:cl1 :eel ion \\ "uld ka1

'There :~re i;tJit_.r n :1:-:un~
not 11c ad11Tll'd t», iwc:111.,,·
grc~lt 1 hj1.·r:l(m tn t'.1~-\\'(•r:ld
tnd tiu:·

REPOR'l' ON comrnSPONDBNCE.

us frticrcd \~here we now

onr rc:..:nn1111t.._'llda1ion. -which 11ced
c;;i1:milkc· fee•!-: tk1t 1hc real am!
~1111fl11 i..: :'or11d in th:._• facL thal it

and
Ofiici:;] c1pn "'ion; ;,i1:iibr t• · 1!1c :tl"'Yl' 111ay lie found in tli;c
of a minihT of Cr:tnd
arnoug the Ill \\'isctin;;in a11d Yc•rrncnt.

Lodges within

Ilic last yea:-,

"THE McGREW CASE"·-lnvolving Relations
Between Masaachusetts and California.

and Caiifnr11i:1,
,1 , ·tl' tint

been affr"ntcd, anrl th;'t
'n.sc · - ' . 1 .. 1.1 1., ,. 1·, 1 l't" ,--e 11 1is._",, :rn•l that :\l;1ss11clmselts (now
\dlal at·t1011 l 1\1
.. ,-,. ' ' ' 1 ' .
.
. . ,-Ju
.
111,l hcts
to lite :\l:t:;nmc
wnrlt!
), Inu:,
tlPt Jt
t'.1\'Cll
. . .
.
•
1 l p1opc1-'
.
. ,_
. , I 1· .. , "i', uf the' w:\itl"r tn 1111r Lr::rn
·"' gc, ]Ml.
Jene the lll1:1 ' lcP· ' 1 l\.n
.
l . · 1· » 1 · 1 i
.
,
• 1: ., .. ·,, 1 , 11"'
th11t t 1c me 11 H u,1 !I
ti '·ubrh- in \''l'll'
uf \y,:at '"'' llC.:l, c 1. "
,
..
'I· ..... J1 L
. ,,
i.-1
~~, . .., c ·1cti1•n
of ;,Lt--~;~(~]lu-.cit:-::.,
ot•c-.;:.t~;:J11
1. "'. 1l\ . \ ·1·1·t'"''
: l
·,
,,
•
,
. _ -'. ~t::iu111c,1 ~)
. '.' - f'Y, ryw.I 1c1 -c ln ,-,.,
,,-,,r:d
cxccpl l11(_;,1tor111a.
1
dc1unct
.,, ·'- '·1··,.,•1ic
~\ ([_ l , ,
'

Tlw folL win.:.;

Ciff·ml

Ludge,

lldWC'C'll

,·1li1·,,.-,• 11H'1~tioncd .:\J~h~~tcln·~('lt~ Co111111ittcc

the fnllnwhg rqvirt:

LollCE, June 11, 1913.
-t 1912, lo consider.
which i 111-0 b:cs relallons
"f
Cr:\nrl Lodge of Cali\t:H! rc·:,pcrtfnlly rcpr;rt as

(;1ux11

The
f:1n11a.

ha\T

follows:

1891

as WL' do, tlia~

~e1np, r ;tnrl

of the
\\·ill lti\\-:.rd:-: ~J;,:, ...;acl1u:--clt;;, t:Ur Cra111J L<:Jdge is cntitk·<l tq 1\11()\\·, ,..;o f;ir a:~ p1i:-;:-1ihlz:, I h~.· facts uf the case. tliat if it is
c:t!kd 11p:·11 ii1 tlw fdnrc' '" ::cl, it ll!;ty
and
justly. To this crnl Uic r,· is
t:1c rq1ort of
Co111n1ittcc \\ llic~l w;1:-: aJ)ilC:intz_··d ln
hun t!~e :\ctlon of
Californi~: in
(1( CH':·(·:·d IL C. ::'dc(~rcw.''
Tn the·
\\' of ).l;:.,s:tc'h11-ct1s in !hi< rqhrt. nTtain Cllllllllcnt-;
are 111:1de co:;c\'n1h1,~· t!h' pcr~nn~il knuwl
of this
CommillcT •>f
;,s it '"' lr::11spir,.,s that the Chairman t'f this
committee
Crand :\f::,k:- oi California it1 J9il7 when :\IcGrew',;
rcb;1hilii;~tinn
a ~'.L1~1'l1 !•:t·k plac(', ~tnd
-who cL,..:ire n1ay rctHl
the ccnml(·nt,; whkh \1·ill ];,· f.mrnl in connection with the rc1-iew
of l\las>adn1:-.cU~

t ·,,,,,.

:\[.'. \\','. Ch::rk,1 T. l.~:tll:igl:cr, Chairman of the Committee,

Tt i,.;. i11 tlic· opi11i"11 ,,f tJii, C11111mitkc. pr.,pcr that the rank am[
t!ic Cr:1rnl L"Jgc ni l':rlifurni;, ~h::t1ld lie i11furmcd as to a
u1a1L t wLicI1
~c\·cral } C':i-:--; pa~: ha:: \ cxed tI1c t\Y11 Ju~·i~dictions
:\l;,s;,aci111cc·lts ;,::d C:;][i,.rn:::, alld, wliik
C1·a;;d Ledge of Cali-forni;t i:" nut 1n th'... ::li~:i1:c,-.1
tu hL:i;1e, hcc:nisc the (~rand

the ( ;r:uid
treated

b

rcp11rt nn the ).lcCrC\\' c;::-:c:

Jllc d

~t:c:i, li:t:- hcrctufur.,._' lKc!l in toi;d ignorance upon the suhject; infl:nn:itit 11 Cf•nccrnlng the
hcc·n limitul to certain

7

iii

hy
in

thi~ rt.'purl.

In t;t:r judgment, it i., c:<pcci:tlly prupcr that the Grand Lcxlg:e of
Califurni;; should IJc ad1·is.d c<'nccrni11g tl'ris case, Lccansc .:\fass:ichusctts has gil-c:1 ih r,·p(1rt to the: :\fasonic world, ;cm! already in the
printer! prccc,dings d the Cr:;11d lodges of the past year, comment
by .~larnnic rqH•rtcr:. has licu1 m:tiL'
the case, and thus
adH'rsc to Calilornia.

If
fr;tud w;1s con1n1jU-z_\l ()11 ::\fa')sacbu;;ct1z-; in the restoration tn
Masonic
uf the' irnk:idual in (jt:estirm, an u·cn g:-ca'.cr fr:md
\Vas co:rn1uiucd upon tlK
Xotlting. in our
judgmcllt, hL' <:cn1rrcd to jc:sti(, :1n
oi the fraternal and
cordial rcl:tiion.s \d1icli li:1n· 11lw:1ys cxisti:d between J\fas,aclmsctts

pn·scntctl to the
Grand
pctitionC'r
to withdr:1w
to renew his
t;:kc'll ·
111\rnifrsl
his

pr::ycr of the

han· leave
free

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

8

it until a letter was received by. our then Grand Secretary, dated
Berkeley, Cal., April 20, 1906, signed by the same P. M. Francis
J:I. E. O'Donnell, who had endorsed the petition for restoration of
hfteen months before, in which letter he appealed to the then
Grand Secretary as a. Knight Temp!ar.; in the name of the Trinity,
as a brother ]\Jason, m the name ot (,od Amen and otherwise· a
letter writhing in agony, requesting him' to use' his influence with
the Grand Master to exercise his prerogative and reinstate Gifford
Hora~c. Greeley McGrew to the rights and privileges of Masonry.
1 lus was followed by a letter JI.fay 12, 1906, calling attention
to the fact that his letter may have been lost.
In answer to these two letters, Brother Nickerson as Grand
Secretary. replied:
The Grand ~faster directs me to say that he has no power
or authority to act in the matter to which your letters refer. That
the subject has been considered by our Grand Lodge, being thoroughly and carefully re-examined and decided unfavorably to the
actio_n yot:
This clecision was so recent that any further
cons1derat1011
the matter at this time is not deemed advisable or
proper.
So the matter stood until Fchruary, 1912, McGrew being an
expelled l\iason by the Grand Lodge of .:V!asons in Massachusetts,
with practically two applications for restoration rejected and
denied.
The attention
our present Recording Grand Secretary was
at that time called to the printed proceedings of the Supreme
Council for the Southern Jmoi.i,diction, in which the name of Gifford
H. G. l\IcGrew appeared as one of those elected to the Court of
Honor. a preliminary to the position of Honorary 33 degree of that
Jurisdiction. After consultation with the Grand :tvfaster and other
permanent members of our Grand Lodge he wrote to the Grand
Secretary of California as follows:
FEBRUARY 24, 1912.
Mr. JoHN vVmcHER,
Grand Secretary of California.
DEAR Sm AND V.vV. BRoTHE:R:
vVho is Gifford Horace G. McGrew whose name appears in
your roster as of Durant Lodge :No. 268 The name is the same
as that of a former Grand Lecturer of this Grand Lodge who was
expelled from Masonry by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts in
1894, and whose restoration was refused ten years later. The information will be thankfully received.
(Signed)
Yours fraternally,
THOMAS \IV. DAVIS,
Recording Grand Secretary.
GRAND LODGE F. & A. l\L OI' CALIFORNIA,
SAN FRANCISCO.
JonN WmcH(R, Grand Secretary.
MARCH 6, 1912.

THoMAs

vv. DAv1s.

Recording Grand Secretary, Boston, lvfass.
DEAR BROTHER DAVIS:
Yours of the 24th of February re Gifford H. G. :'.IcGrew: He
was elected to membership November 1, 1907, in Durant Lodge

REPORT ON CORRESPONDI<JNCE.

9

Xo. 268 011 a regular dimit from his old Lodge in Massachusetts,
and if subsequently to the issuance of his dimit (unless lt was
forged) he was expelled hy yonr Grand Lodge, we knew nothmg
of it. How ever, strict inquiry will be made, and if i,t ai:peai:s
he has
on the brethren here (and he stands high m his
commun'tv , he will be expelled. 1 will inform you later of our
action. :\;Icantimc I wish you would give me iurther information
concerning him-the cause of expulsion, etc., and the elate of the
dimit from his Lodge.
Fraternally yours,
(Signed)
JonN WmcmlR,
Grand Secretary.
GRAND LODGE F. & A. 11. OF C.\L!HlRNIA,
SAN FRANCISCO.
JonN WmcHER, Gro11d Srcrctury.
MARCH 27, 1912.
THO).!AS \V. DAVIS,
Recording Grand S ccrctar:y, Boston, lvlass
D.EAR BROTHER DAVIS:
.
Again referring to yours of the 24th of February _concernmg
Gifford H. G. McGrew: 1 wrote you under date ot March 6,
asking fnrthcr information, but as ~'e.t have received no reply.
Since then I have made some mqmncs, and hncl that Brother
McGrew conceakd nothing here, but counselled with a Past
Grand Master
well as the Master of the Durant Lodge. and
presented with
application and <limit the following paper, a
copy of ;vhich is as follows:
GRAND Lmic.E 01' MASSACH usETTS,
MAsOKJC TE~HLE, Bos'rON, Jan. 18, 1905.

'To Mr. G. H. G. McGREW,
Berkeley, Cal.
I am directed bv Baalis Sanford,
Grand .:VIaster of
Masons in Massacl1tu;etts, to advise you
a petit1011 from you
was presented at the Quarterly Communication of said .Grand
Lodge held in September last, praymg for Yf?Hr rcstorat10n to
the rights and privileges of Masonry. The pet1t10n was refcrre~
to a special committee, who reported at the Quarterly Commumcation of the Grand Lodge held in September last. After a foll
discussion it was decided that the petitioner have leave to withdraw.
Attest:
SERENO D. NICKERSON,
Recording Grand S ecrctary.
This was interpreted here to mean that Brother :Y[cGrew could
honorably withdraw from his Lodge and lawfully petition here.
If there is anything further that would he of interest here,
kindly advise me.
Fraternally yours,
(Signed)
joHK WmcHER,
Grand Secretary.

10

REPORT ON

1

CORRESPOND~NCE.

.\I'J!IL

:\Ir. Jm1\" \\.11w111-Y,

4, J()\.2.

Cn111d S(·(,"t'/(t··_i.· r)l C'ill1/nr11z.(1.
\r.\\'. J;E\lTlll".!\:
Yom ktkr' "f 'li:1rc:1 (J illHl .!./ :tr: duly reccin'<l.
The
Cr~111tl ~J;~..;tt·r
1:~;Lt \
\\ill ki11tl1,· oJ\T u·· a copy nf the
di111it ,,·hie ii ,,·:1:-i
d ;,~- t:h' Li111c \Ir.- ~JcCrc\~~ a!TiliatL'd with

1)1·:.\I\

~lh'. .\:\ll

l>ur;mt l,od:.•.c.

Yo11r,; frale·rn;dly,
( :-ligmd)
T111n1.1:; \\'. D.11·1,;,

Nc(urdin,'.!,· (1.ru11d .\ccrctory.

:\LI 1 25. l'J LZ.

:\Jr. ]"11\" \\-111c11u;,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

lJ

mittee on Jnisprndrnc: 1111ani111ouslv decided would render him
eligible for mcmlwr,ohip i11 a :\I asZmic Lodge in California if
satisfacton· to the hrethre1;."
lt thei1 stales that :\lcCrew made application to Durant Lodge,
using our Cram! Secretary°': rcp:irt in li,u of a dimit (a most
rcm:1rkal1k ;1"urnpticm after \Vhicher's letters).
Then follc\\'S an c11dorsu11ent hy \\'. 11. H. Gentry, :\laster
of Durant Lodge· when :\lcl ~re\\' joi11c<l it, arnl anoth~r by \Villiam
J l. \\'astl'. P:1st l\laster of Jlurai;t Lodge, hoth of which endorsed
the trnth of the statements 11111dc: the lcttn closes asking !he
Cra11d S,rretan· to p1Tc:ent thi,: mattn to the Crane! Lodge.
Jttne 7, 1Sl2, Cram! Secretary D1l\is wrote the following
kiters:
]UNI\

7, 1912.

c·,, ond ,'.;t·(rc'/(i-'J' u/ Culiior11/u.
JJ1: \I!

Sil!

\\"ll

\-.~ llkiJ'i"J[l:I<:

!11 ~"Pr letter 1 i :\l:trc!i (1. :ind
di111it \rliich \\·::...; J;:·t '''- 111c<1
~\Ir.
{or 11w1111iLT:-,)1ip t
!)ur;t11t
I ,,-rL)il' :-,~tyi11~~ t::;tt tih'
cl1111it. \\'c h;t\'L' \1,~iiL'd
_nn1 pcnnit i~J'--' to 1 c~1l'\\

l\fr. Jun:-.: \\'lllCI!ER,
.\l:trd1 l.7, Hin reLr lo a
n:n·11· :ll tl1e ti-111e· he applied
'\ll. l.11:~. 011 1l1e -itli of .\pril
r1'r[U.,tl'rl a C")JY ui the
for a reply lo 1i1at ktkr. \\'ill

f ra ilTn;dly,
TJIO:ll .\S \\-.

I~cc(1rdin°

D.\\"IS,

Grund ,')'ccrl'lar~\'.

F()r 11».-ri :~11·1.-Lh l~r, t;-,cr I ):t\·j,, l:;td cnrr :'JHllldl:<l with tlll'
lll1dics 11i1li 1· l11ch 'llc'.~;c\\· !1:1d Lct·11 aililiat,·rl (<J learn if :iny
di1nit l1;l(l ~,\.1.._'i" hL·cp ~:r:t11L·cl w~;ich ;ni.:.:,lit ln\·c Lcv11 u:-icd 1n· hin 1
as st:itcd li•: Cranci ::.,·c·rdar_, \\"!:icli r. Lut 11011c had ci·er- lieen
gra111l'd. the· corn 1Hwd111c·c 'Y:th l':tli i"rnia contim1cll as follow:;:
:\1:11· :?!, 191}., 1:1c Cr;111<] ~~e1:1·l't:1n· of C::liforni:1, Drotlwr
\\"hic!1c;-, li,H] i'tlllel' a "c11 r.il kiln. Jn!t p;1rticularh in 1es1 1othe
to the ~\nril 4ti1 1~1tcr ( l r Hr 1 1 ,__,· J),~\i', d"l,111~~ Lir-cop) 0 1\IcCre1Y's d~rnit,
"[ ha\·c
c1rcfnl ~u1d 1:ior():·1-~.l1 in,·c~tig-~ttlo11 .co11ccn11 1u.!·
this C:tsc. ~111d t;h_' UliH_'lu~;i(,J11 i~ t:1:tt lirotlicr ~lcl~H'\\".-; 11icn1iicr:·Jiif;
]:t._rc i .. r: 111:.tt the Lr;111d Lod;-~c 1'f ~f;t~:-;:1c:1u~cth in l)ccc11i-];cr, ]
11l11! pcri11i, ';inn ti) \\'lthdr:t\\-; 1l1;1t he did not
h;t\·c a
1H.c:;1~~. ,:} c \\"'..'.:-. 1ir l :t 11:ci-!llJL'r nf ;:ny Lod.L'.'C ;tiHJ wa~
cntirch- l'!Hlcr r:1l' ~\;;1~~('J1!c cr11Hrlil Li \'()tlr Cr:~nd Lodgl' until
rclL",".'.·,,:,1
· 1~-Y·
c 'l
' 1 11nt;1111g
'·.
·
.. ~ _ 111
-_: i ] :·1.t I :
c.tl1lcc:t:cr1
here: that his
applicat1c11 Jnr n:L'1!11ier~lilp iil t)ur:~11i
n":t~; kno\\- 11 tu ~ltHl endorsed];_\- lc~u1:11g· 11~c~11hcr-.; t1l cur irand T,cd<lc."
0
T!irn fullr:11' cupy e>i lc:tcr l!f :\J;,y 3.' IS1:2, frn;n G ]l
Ocheltree to \\"liic1'cr, Cr:rnrl S.
. w],o s:11·s he ini1i;,te,i
the act•u11, 111 the Cr:t1"l L<rd:•r• of
tn · hai·c :\Jc(;,-,.,,.
n·,turcd, L;at he (:·de the nutic·.· t 11:1t :\fcCrc11 had been gin·n
l;·:tn· to \\tthrlr:li\· 111,
to Hr<dilcr J. \\'. ,\mlerson of the
~<J11~11.rttl'C 011
.
_._
_;~ho l:t:d i~.];~'fflr1: 111:-: Co:11111ittcc, that
1_1(_ :1:L<1
tl~itt 1101.11 ti,c rl·:-.(;}uLi\Hl n! the Cra11cl Lndgc
c c·1 lJl1cd II\· the (,rand Seer, litr)· "there \\'ih no douht lint that
1
t.ie full rntc1111";1 \1 .. s lo pcrrnit 1\rothcr :\lcCrew to se 1·cr his
rclatrn11s 11·;d1 1l1e Cr:1nd Lrnlge of ;,1;L.,"1clmsctts, \\ hich the Com-

f

Gro11d Sar\'/ury of Culiforni11.
V.\V. H1wTHf.R:
The ctatm of Cifford 11. C. l\I cCrew 1s that of an expelkcl
::\fa,0011. The action of the Cranll Lodge 111 1S04 was upon his

DE.11! Sm .\:-11i

petition fur restoration to the rights and pri,·ikges of :\lasonry,
ancl the committee to \\1111111 the petition was rderrc(l recommcmlcd
his restoration. .\ftcr a foll discussion. the rccornmenclation d
the committee \\·as ll"t ad,iptcd, a11d he was gi\·en lca\'e to withdraw his pe1itir·11.
.\n examination of the report, and of th"
rernnl ma<k l:y :\I.'. \\'. ·. Scrrno D. \'ickcrso11, then Recording
Crand Secrl'tan·, shows th:1t no other construction can he intelligently placed ui1lJn the action of the Grand Lodge. 1Ir. 2\IcGrcw
made no' petition tD be permitted to withdraw from under the
jurisdicti'1n of the Crand L()(k;e of J\las:;aclrnsetts.
I le clicl
petition for n·c:toration to the rivhts and priYikges of :\Iasonry
and 11pon that petition he was gi\'l'1l ka\'C to withdraw, an exprcssic1n \Yhich admits of no otlLT construction than !hat his
p:tition w~1s not granted. ln June, 1910, a motion was made that
the Grarnl Lodge reconsider its action. and upon that motion to
recon,ider. the c:immittec to whom tlw- motion was referred report'.'d a(h-crsch· and the report was 11cccpted.
The Crane! Luri'2;e of California in recognizing l1im as a
•
member of one d its Sulinnlinate Lodges is harboring a man
against whom a sentence of cx1mlsion for p11rnasonic concluct
stands upo11 the records of the Crarnl Lll(lgc of :\lassachusetts, and
that sentcncc has ne1·cr been reyoked or changed in any manner
whatever.
In the s:irnc cnclosurc with this letter I have written, calling
yo·c'r attention to er:rrespomlcncc lJC'twcen \\I.·. Brother O'Donnell,
of Dur11nt 1.odge, and :'.\[.'. \\T.'. 1lrnthcr Kickerson in April and
:\fay. 1906.
This n1attcr hi!s :ilre:1dy 11ssttmed ;:o grayc an aspect here
(three or four of our Past Grand MasLrs haying had it before
them a1 1·:irious times) that Cran<! J\Iaster Benton suggests that
you \\·ill pbcc it before your Crane! :\faster as early as possible to
aniid unpleasant inquiry as to its status, perhaps eyen before our
Crand Lodge.
As letters from Brothers Ocheltree, \Vastc and Ccntry arc

12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.
made a part of your l~ttcr of May 21, copies of the letters I send
you today have been torwardcd to them.
(Signed)
Yours fraternally,
THO"vfAS 'vV. DAVIS.

Recording Grand Secretary.

Jum: 7, 1912.

Mr. JOHN 'vVmcHER,

.

Relief of everv kind-Plwsical, l\1ental, Financial is wanted
here on the instant.' Help us iii this Mental Act in the name of onr
Redeemer.
.
Kindly wire results to me at my expense and believe me.
'
( SiO'ned)
Your Brother in the Sacred .' ·
"'
FRAKCJS H. E. O'DoNN'ELL."
I have written the Grand 1faster.
Bos TON, 1fay 24, 1906.

Grand Secretary of Califomia.

DEAR Srn A:ND V.\V. BROTHFR ·
In connection with my ietter of even date, I desire to call
your
to the following copies of two letters which are
THOMAS W. DAVIS, Rec. Sec.
"Address: F. H. E. O'Donnell.. 2728 Hillegass Ave., Berkelev,
California.
,
FRATER: 'SERE:-10 D. ::\ICKERSON, K. T.,

Grand Secretary Grand Lodge of 1v!assachu·setts,
Boston, 1it ass.
MY DEAR SlR AND FRATER:
I write to you as a Knight Templar, I am a member oi
Oakland _Commandery No. 11, Oakland, California.
I wnte. to you from the midst of scenes almost unparalleled
m world history.
I wr~te to you in the n;ime of Christ and the undivided Trinity.
I wr.ite to you as a Brother J\fason of every degree.
wnte .to you as ,the President of the Past Masters' Association
'i~f Cahforma. Our femple and Records are gone, but Masonrv

!

w=

13

-

.· I. writ~. to you ~t a moment when n!y _own heart is bleeding
with agon} ,md nnsc_ry for the fearful suffenng before my eves.
, I wnte t~ you m the name of the Eternal and our hope of
} uture Salvation.
I write to yo.u in the name of God, Amen. As the one man
who
the exercise of Mcrc3 1, we give it no other namc-onlv th~
Ume, Seven-every California Mason from the Grand
2\Iaster am! (,overnor of the State to the last elected
believes can J:elp us and do for us an act of Masonic Love and
Mercy at this moment.
.. You know every cir~urnstance.
\Ve only ask-absolutely
dismterestedly---·for Masomc Mercy and Forgiveness. \Ve do thi~
m. Love and Sympathy for a man-a brother Man-one who at
tl11s moment 1s wrenched asunder mentally by the agonies of
2\lmd, Body, and
Children separated in the midst of the
cataclysm and no
them--home half wrecked-and with
the added h~rrors of_ a
old father-a Mason-who doesn't
know the sons 1lasomc diJwnfall-at the point of dissolution. God
help lum.
. . I. ask you to i;sc. your Masonic influence to urge the Grand
l\fast(:r to e:;crcisc Ins prerogative and reinstate Gi"!ford Horace
(,r~eky ~Ic(~rcw . to, th<: Rig\1ts and Privileg<:s of Freemasonry,
IL kno\\ s. 11<1ugbt or tlus act1011, but !us ago mes have caused us
and I \1,·nte for
to make the appeal at this moment-thi~
S_upremc
:VI~rcy. I am sure you will be with us.
'I here is an end to the Justice of God which is finally sunk in Love.

Mr. FRANCJS H. E. O'DoNNr'.LL,

.

.

Berkeley, C,1/1fornw.

DEAR SIR :
<
dd
d t
Your letters of the 20th of April and 12th ?v,ay, a resse
o
M.'. W.'. John Albert Blake. Grand ]\faster, and myself w_ere
dulv received, but as both of ns arc constantly engaged about nnportant and very pressing hu,;iness, we have not before found
time to reply.
The Grand Master directs me to say that he has no
or authoritv to act in the matter to which your letters
.
that the sui)ject has heen consick.red by our 9rand Lodge, bemg
thoroughly and carefully re-exammed, and decided unfavorably- to
the action you urge. This decisio1.1 w~s so. recent !hat any fo_rthcr
consideration of the matter at tins tune is not deemed advisable
or proper.
Yours truly,
SERENO D. NICKERSON,

Recording Grand Secretary.
The .letter from Vv.'. Brother O'Donnell shows tmmis~akably
that in April, 1906, fifteen months after _the, ktter of ~I.: Vv. ·
Brother Nickerson, which was accepted m lieu of a dnmt, :fylr.
McGrew understood fully his position and that he was ;estmis
under the sentence of exnulsion from Masonry. ·whether M. · \V. ·
Brother Nickerson's letter in reply was received _hy \V.' · Brother
O'Donne11, or not. 2\Ir. McGrew knew his position. I forbear
making any other 'comment at this time.
(Signed)
Yours fraternally,
THOMAS \V. DAVIS,

Recording Grand Secretary.

Junc 6. Gr;uid Sccret;_tr)f vVhichcr a!1s,vering Brother Davi~:
request for a copy of dnmt that Mc(,rew used. refers to lns
letter of May 21, stating that >iicGr_ew had no dnmt,
uscc~ ~he
letter of Brother Nickerson answering this refusal of
petition
to restoration in lieu thereof.
If this is so after the O'Donnell letter, NkGrew is. guilty of
another offense against the Grand Lodge of Cahforn~a, as he
knew this so-called dimit was an announcement that his request
for restoration had been refused.
On July 2 the Grand Secretary of California asked. for a
copy of the printed proceedings of o~ir quarterly proceedmgs of
1904, as all their records were burned m 1906, which was answered
by our Grand Secretary as foi1ows:

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Jt;LY 8,

1912.

l\Ir. Jo11N \\'rnnn:R,
Grand Sc'crc/ar:1 of California.
DE.\R Il1wn1FR \\"111nn:1<:
r send \'On nndn separate' C(l\'fr the proceedings for Scptunlier
ancl Decrn1her, 190i, as rcqncstcd. .\s I referred yon in my last
letter to the proceedings of 1894, l also send yon copies of the
proceedings co\'ering the ::II cCrn\· case. I was not a\\'arc that yon
had lost your file of proccc·clings. If clc,:ired, I shall lie pkascci to
sencl yon the pamphlc t proceedings frnm 1875 to the date when
your present lile beg ins.
l dn not think that the action of the Grand Lodge in JR94 is
subject to rcvic\\' iJy any othn liody, lint it is, nf course, cksirahlc
merely as a matter ()f i11for111atic:n that \'On shoulcl haye the foll
story 'of the action t;1ken.
(Signed)
Yours fraternal!\-,
T110~1.\;;

0

\\'.

D.\\'IS,

Recording Grand Sccrclar}'.
Oct<lwr 21. 1912, P. C. ::lf:t,tcr :\fonrc:c writes D:l\·is acknowledging a letter of October 15: stating that he· cc:1scd to lie Crane!
::llastcr October 11. and an111:uncing that ::Ir.·. \\'.·. \Vm. I'.
Filmer of San Francisco hacl been elccll'cl in his place. c\ similar
letter was sent to our Cr;:nd ::llastcr Dent1m Decemlicr 14 answering his of October 29.
;\I.·. \\".·. Brother Filinvr is also the c\ctiyc 3.1° ::lfason from
California fo,- the Southern Jnrisdiction.
The letter of October 29 from nur Cra1Hl ]\faster Benton
referred to by Brother j\ I on n:c :1 s ha dng Leen h:1 rnlcd o\·cr to
his successor is vc·ry lengthy, hut in terms that arc hoth firm arnl
conrtcous ancl consistentl 0· within Ilic principles of :\fas:mic comity
between jnrisdictions. state:; th;1t "our Gram! Lml"c cannot rcccck
from the pcisition which it Jia,. taken." rcL r.s to the corrcspornlcnce
and the facts m the case, ;1ml says that:
"The merits of the case, tco, 'arc unimportant and insignificant
to my mind cnmpan·cl wirh the great fund:1mental question that
has arisen causing friction bet\\'e,n t\\'O great j1·risdictiom, between
whom the most curdial relaticns ha ye !1cretoforc existed: l
cannot deplore more than yourscl f am! in terms as fraternal and
courteous :ts yonr own, the nnforttmaL· conditions that exist and
tlt;1t we hope -may lit:d a solution in the spirit that should aclnatc
all mt r actions.
The case stated is snlist;intialh· this:
Gifford H. G. ::If cGrcw was ~·xpclled from the rights and
privileges of ::IIasonry by the Crane! Lodge of :\lassaclrnsetts;
the merits of the cas:c, the facts on which charges were based. the
attitnde and manner of the :1ccusc1! l:dore the Crarnl Lrnkc,
apparently merited fully the punishment he recein·1!; 011r full
Crane! Bc:cly of scn·ral lrnrnlrcd brethren. all ]\[asters or \Vardens
of Lodges, nit;ng with a marked degree of n1:animity for his cxnulsion.
::\early ten years; after, he petitionell to he restored to the
ri,·hts and pri1·ilcgcs of l\Lsnnry: on this petition after a hearing
lidnrc the Crarnl L()(lgc, t11e 11ctitioncr \\·as gi\'C·n "lean~ to withdra\\'." The whole question in the cas;e is the construction of
these words; here, l don ht if a man of any experience in a dcliberatiye assembly of any kind can be fouml that wonhl hesitate

,...

15

for a moment in saying that the effect of such action is to deny
the petition; in fact I have been unable to find anyone of the
many to whom the question has been put who will seriously consider any other effect to it; some even exhibited impatience
and surprise that any other construction could be put on it.
McGrew never petitioned to withdraw anything; he petitioned to be
restored to the rights of a Mason, and the action by our Grand
Lodge as a deliberative body in employing words that kindly and
easily disposed of his petition instead of brutally rejecting or denying it, have been nsed for generations in similar bodies, and are
elementary principles in the books on parliamentary law and
conduct of deliberative assemblies.
•
The moment the petition was before our body, it was its
property and in its possession and could not be withdrawn or
otherwise disposed of except by vote of the body itself.
Then follow citations from various authorities on parliamentary law as to effect of "lea ye to withdraw"; stating that
the fact was known to McGrew as well as Judge O'Donnell
more than a year thereafter and was acquiesced in . by him;
states that the dignity and integrity of our Grand Lodge is
at stake, that he as Grand Master had referred the matter to a
committee of the Grand Lodge and pending their decision he
writes personally hoping that strained relations may not be
created between the two Grand Bodies; refers to his short term
as Grand Master but says that he learns on inquiry it is customary
when a question sl1ch as this has arisen between two jurisdictions,
each considering itself right, that the offending cause is suspended until the misunderstanding can be corrected, that no
action has .been taken by the Grand Lodge of California, that
McGrew has not suggested any relief to the embarrassment of
the California Jurisdiction, conclnding as follows :
"Personally, I wish that yo11r Grand Body, or yourself,
would take some action that would so acknowledge the position
of our Grand Lodge taken in good faith and in what is believed
to be the proper parliamentary and Masonic method, that our committee will thereafter see their way clear to pay most respectful
attention to the wishes of a Grand Jurisdiction such as your
OWJl, and be free to recommend consideration by this Grand Lodge
of any request yon may desire to make.
I am writing you openly and frankly, with the same spirit that
you haYe so kindly employed in your communication to which
this is an answer.
Awaiting- your reply, and saluting you with the Fraternal
feelings of fellowship that characterize Masons, I am with great
respect.
The answer of M.'. W.'. Brother Filmer says that he hopes·
neither the McGrew nor anv other matter will strain the cordial
relations between the two Crane! Lodges; acknowledges that the
merits of the case arc unimportant compared with the funcla;nental principles invohecl ; states that eminent Masonic jurists
111 California inform him that their construction can be fully supported Ppon ample legal Masonic grounds; states his position
a:; a business man rather than a lawyer; without admitting their
stde of th~ legal questions i1wolvcd; admits for the purpose of
argyment that McGrew is not restored in Massachusetts, that
while the action of our Grand Lodge was not susceptible of the
construction that Durant Lodge put on it, that the construction

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE,
16

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
on tlwse n'i1mtcs not only hy his Grand Lodge but
Cr;1ml '\Iastcrs of its J urisprudrnce Committee; admits
1IcGrcw knew he was an expelled '\Jason when he applied
to Durant
he committed a '\Tnsonic offence under the
laws of
arnl should he tried for it; and referring to the
and action of both parties, italicized as follows:
··The i1uf>orlant thing her,· is that I /Jc/ie·z·c we can both assume
that it 7''<1S '1011,·stl.1·
; refers to the sw;pcnsion of McGrew
until tlic
he corrected hctwccn the two
Grand
that that shculd be the proper
that after imcst1g;,l!on of the
with Past Grand Masters
the only w~.y will be by
after a trial; stales that
Lodge can so t.!1scipline
'\faster has power to
~<l\'S that
desired: recognizes the feeling
?iicCrcw
hv the unfortunate condition of affairs. anJ
constitutional prerogatives of the
regret~ tlwt no :-;t-rctch
in the nature of a temporarv
Grand J\fa»tcr can do
made without a :}.lasuspension of :\lcCrcw or any
sonic trial. l ! is kttcr conclucks
"Docs it not seem to yon that the J\IcGrew case has occupied
of the time arnl attention of the Fraternitv in Massachusetts
and
than it deserves' Lnckilv no me;1tio11 will be made
of it in our printed
and would it not be better
should no printed mention he
of it in
jurisdiction, for
it will only furnish a matter
which
jurists will
disagree arnl become the
elementary discussion which
can prove of no value to t11c
"I cannot
suggc't to you
specific line of action but
trust that in vour wisdom and in
wisdom of your Grand
there rn;; v be
l\Iasonic method of dealing
the entire !natter
it rest as an unfortunate
occurrence, which hccaPsc
Law in California,
cannot now he remedied.
this can hcst lie
hy omitting mention
of the
case in yom Proceedings and letting McGrew
staml as he now docs, a rcf~t1hr l\Ja;.;nn in the Lodges of California.
hut as an
'\la son in :i\lassacht·setts. 1\11 anomalous position
but
cannot he aY<Jidccl."
om Grand Sccrct:nv acknowledged receipt
that our Crarnl l\Taslcr would he absent
ahnut the tirst
l\TcCrcw knew when
used the letter announcing the refusal
of his
for restoration in the place of a dimit 'for membership in
Lodge.
he was committing a fraud on that
Lodge and on l\bsonry.
being called to the attention of the
Grand Lodge of California.
action should have been taken
on its pa rt or on !he
of the
.'.\faster toward a discipline
of this man whom
accep;ccl
Brother. Your committee
ha\·c
to ;1ttrilrntc
failure to
of the
I,oclge of
or
on its
p<irt.
th;\t lictwc·cn our two Graml
tl1cre sl1011ld not he
any mismHkrstanding; but after a careful analysis of the correspondence and a most charit;ihlc consideration of the action of the
Committee on Jurisprnclence of the California Grand Lodge, as-

P. G. M.
P. G. 1L
P. C. J\L
BLAKE, P. C. M,
HODES, P. J. G. W.

GALLAGHER.

B.

The report of the committee
menclation
adopted.
was acccptccl and its recomFollowing arc lhl' revic\.\'S.· of t·l1e various Crand Jurisdictions.
Respectfully snbmittcd,
Eow .\lrn If. I Lwr
Clwinuan of the Com111;'ttcc.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

18

ALABAMA.

1913.
The J\fost ·worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted
l\fasons of Alabama and its Masonic Jurisdiction commenced its
:>rincty-third Annual Communication in the Masonic 'l'emple in the
city of 11ontgomcry, on the afternoon of Tuesday, the second day of
December, A. D. 1913, A. L. 5913, Grand !\faster Daniel A. Greene

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ti on of universal benevolence, the practice of ·I ..11·t . f
you w1ll--and ;1s sure a< Cod rci 11 . .
c 1.1
y, o service if
but powerfnl inflncnce' ~f 'these ~rr~11~1ie·l [ ~hven m.1der the benign
h11n.1an
will be wove; 1 it;t';; 1 '• . e \·anous t}1reacls .of
cncirclmg the earth and holdino· th o 1e mystic cor~ of. tnendsh1p,
bonds of peace It was the cJ·~· e rac~ 111 m11 ty ot sp1nt and the
for by the Sco;ch bar~!· and l\I<anssomnmlat101!1 dre:1dmed of and prayed
( · n "' ien 1c sa1 :

"Then let i:s pray th;:it come it mavAs come it will for a' that•
That sense and worth, o'er a' the earth
May I;ear the
and a' thatF ?r a· that
a' that.
Its coming yet for a' that,
That man to man the warld o'er,
Shall brother he for a' that."

presiding.
The Grand ivl aster opens his address as follows:
As \.VC assemble in this, the Xinety-third Annual Comnmnication of this Grand
I can but feel a profound gratitude to
the Supreme Grand
of the Universe that He has
inspired
the heart of
enthused his intellect as not only to cause
him to have the
to reach the standard laid down by Him,
in whose image he was made, but also moves him to exert the
power that God has
him to elevate his fellow man, advance
the cause of
and make the world a better place in
which to live.
To this end government has been instituted and societies, educational, fraternal and religious, have been organized. As I review
the origin and history of :Vlasonry and study its principles and
teachings, I am convinced that to no single organization or society
is the world more indebted for its enlightened civilization, its
religious freedom and political liberty than to this great and beneficent institution.
As 1 look into your faces here before me today, and contemplate your achievements during the past five years, I rejoice in the
realization that Alabama is no laggard in the contest being waged
by the moral forces of the world, and that its members are no
drones in humanity's hive in the great work of
relief to
the needy. comfort to the sorrowing and of
worth the
living; that they stand ever ready to reach forth
helping hand
to those in distress, and to exemplify in their actions the doctrine
of service. vVe extol the virtue of charitv, but as beautiful as the
thought may he, its real greatness docs n;t consist of the fact that
it "Extends beyond the
into the bollndless realms of Eternity." Above and
that, it is the greatest virtue because it is
the actic:c one.
and hope are passive-one may he idle yet be
filled with faith and hope, but one cannot be filled with charity
without doing something. One cannot really love without seri,ing.
This is the mission of ;\lasonry and the gospel it
From
its inception l\Iasonry has ever stood for liberty
conscience, for
freedom of intellect and for the right of all men to stand erect, unfettered and unafraid, equal before God and the law, each respecting the rights of his fellows.
:Vlasonrv stands for these because it
that these
rights are i111hedded in the will of God and interwoven in the constitution of the human soul. In the struggle for a higher civilization, in her plea for a government without tyranny and a religion
without superstition, she uses neither force nor
but with
the power of faith, the persuasions of reason and the
of gentleness impresses upon mankind the lessons of love,
inculca-

19

Mas~~s~~;;~1·;:1i~1l~~ t;e.:~rn~tne new Lodges were granted by the Grand

.
auspices.

, .

ircc corner stones were laid under Mason1'c

Concerning the Masonic Home ' the Grand
M· as t er says 111 part, as
1
follows:
'
Since the last meeting of this Grand L 1 ' 1 ,
.
• . oc ge t 1e Masonic Home
has loecn thrown open for th
residents, and has now been e ii~e~e~~wn and accommodation of
months. you will have· an O'lportu~ft 1\ ~ opcrat,1011 for over ten
Grand Lodge to nnke · ,1' p~r150 , 1 . Y unng t le
of this
] ·1 j'
'·
<
c . nd
ll1SJlCCt!Ol1 Of the OTrmn•ilo
.nu c.;ngs, and c<;ime. in contact with tl;ose wh
· ai~d
lb \'>dlls and en;oy its protecting care an I I ~ are
w1th!n
have ample cause for sclfconontu!-1tio~ ,~rn
sure
that
will
great good vonr
ff ~ '
w 1 en you
the
'
1
fol wo1·k th~tt i.
d e loris 1ave. accomplished,
Home.
s
one JY those m direct
iwnn<uw
As was forecastecl

the G ,

·

B

.

.

~~:;\; 0, yo:1, d1~ applicatio1;s f~~.e~~~~~nm~~l~c;i~~s iti~ ~1~~ aH~~~~

1

b . .
"o r •'.Pidl} that the accommodat10ns furnished hy ti
·
Ul 11
t mg anc1 its dormitories wer i11 d
·
,
·
1e mam
and in the earlv spring in ordc et
~quatc _l'.:J meet the demands,
who needed 0 {1r hC'lp 'thC' co~ ?ttie 111 posit10n .to care for those
1111 ee saw that 1t was
to t
I
' ·
cot~ag~ncl p a;1 the c~cction of additional buildi;1gs, and deemed
. p an Jest smted for our purpo<e and the B
d
oar
upon. the erection of two
eac h contamuw ten room
5
•
co tt ages are now almost
d .·n . '.'
occupants.
an "'1 \·er) soon be ready for

t

c

'

'.

•

The con~lusion of the Grand Master's address is as follows.
If, m the discharge of the duties incident to tl1
.
1icen bestowed upon me I lnve be
. 't
c.
that has
craft to a mo
f
'
., :
en ms rumcnta 1 m
the
then I f I tl~c perh ect realization of what Masonry means
.
iat w atever
other sh 0 t
.
.
is,
ce
have been my life shall not
h
~ co m.mgs ?r failures may
to vou tl J
•• 1
cen ivec1 m vam I commend
•
1e ;cautitu sentimC'nt expressed in the poe~ of \V'hitticr:

1

20

REPORT OX CORRESPONDENCE.
"\Vhen I am dead, if men can say,
'He helped the world upon its way,
\Vith all his faults of word and deed
l\fankind did have some little need
Of what he gave'-then in my grave
:\ o greater honor shall I crave.

If
can sa\·-if thcv but can'llc
his b;st; he played the man,
His way was straight; his soul was clean;
l lis failings not unkind, nor mean,
1-le loved his fellow men and tried
To help them'-I shall be content."
CORRESPONDENCE.
The rcpart on Foreign Correspondence was presented by Brother
\Villiam Yates Titcomb.
The report inclmles a review of California, 1912, giving an excellent resume of cur proceedings.
HJ:'NRY C. l\fJLLJ'R, Birmingham, was elected Grand Master.
GEORGE A. BEAC"CHAMP, Montgomery, re-elected Grand Secretary.
The next annual communicat!on will be held in the city of Montgomery, Dcccmhcr 2, 1914.

ALBERTA.
1914.

The :.1 in th Annual Communication of the :\I.". \V .'. Grand Lodge
of Alberta, 1\.ncicnt, Free and Accepted Masons, was opened in the
Masonic Temple, in the city of Banff, Province of Albnta, on \Vcdnesday, :\fay 27th, A. D. 1914, A. L. 5914, itt the hour of 10 o'clock a. m.,
Grand Master S. J. Blair presiding.
In the address of the Most Worshipful Brother S. J. Blair, Grand
Master, he feelingly refers to the death within the year of the aged
and well beloved Grand Tyler. Brother R. H. Finch, who had filled
the office faithfully and well ever since the establishment of the
Grand Lodge. The Grand Master refers to one official visit made
beyond the boundaries of Alberta to Maple Leaf Lodge in the
Grand Jurisdiction of Saskatchewan.
The Grand Master constituted nine Lodges, which received charters
at the preceding annual communication. He granted a large number
of special dispensations, twenty-one of them being to subordinate
Lodges to attend the Divine service, a common practice in the Canadian
Grand Lodges, but generally disapproved in the Vnitcd States.
The Grand Master's just conception of .the high place occupied
by Masonry in the civic structure is disclosed in the following paragraph
taken from the concluding portion of his address:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

21

\V c are living in a
age and in a most progressive
country, where every
is mad: to
the church and the
various institutions of education and
This cannot fail
to create the high standard of citizenship which is best adapted to
an intelligent understanding of th~ fundamental principles of Freemasonry. and which is most likely to seek membership in an order
whose foundation-stone is the t:plifting of
No society,
sect or creed has so great an opportunity in
so long. as we, its mcmbcn:, adhere to the required
of meeting upon a common level am\ always remember our duty
to God, our neighbor and ourselves.
Charters were ordered for eight
under dispensation and
two Lodges were continued under dispensation for another year,
which is evidence of the
growth which this jurisdiction is
enjoying.
The jurisdiction now has eighty-five active Lodges with a mcm-·
bership of 6039, a gain in membership of 873. m·cr the preceding year.
There is an excellent report on
S. Y. Taylor, Chairman.

Correspondence by Broth"r

following arc two paragraphs touching upon matters of general
interest, taken from the introduction of his report:
The liquor question claims the attention of manv iurisdictions.
and sevcral
them h<n-c put the ban 011 th:· salooii keeper, while
others have
the settlement of this question
subordinate
Lodg-es
exercise of the black hall.
dav is not
far distant
it will Le impossible for those
il1 stron"
drink to gain admission to Freemarnnry.
"'
An unwarranted attempt is
made by certain Masonic
bodies, notably the Grand Orient
to establish Symbolic
Lodges within Americ;rn Jurisdictions.
is a well
principle that no forcig·n jt~risdiction has the right to
territory of another. Such Lodges have been declared
and clandestine.
Ir~ his report, California, 1913, is
extensively considered with
quotations from the Grand :\faster's address, reports of committees, etc.
J. A. JACKSON, Grand :\faster, Lcthhridgc.
GEoRcf: MACDo:-1,\Ln, Grand Secretary, Calgary.

ARIZONA.
1914.
The l1rfost \Vorshipfol Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of Arizona commern:ed its Thirt\•-second Annual Communication in
the city of Phoenix, on Tuesday: the tenth day of February, A. D.
1914, at 10 o'clock a. m. Deputy Grand Master Charles Miller Smith
presiding.
Owing to the absence through indisposition of the Grand ;\faster,
the Right \Vorshipful Deputy Grand Master occupied the Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

22

23

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

East, and owing to these adverse circumstances, the Grand Master
did not present his usual Annual Address.
The activities of the Grand Lodge and the official act performed
by the Grand l\Iaster were, however, succinctly set forth by the Grand
Secretary in his thirty-second annual report.
From the tabular statement of Loclges and membership, we learn
that the total membership of the jurisdiction on the first of January.
1914, was 2324, as against 2221 on January 1, 1913, showing a net gain
of 203.
The Grand Treasurer presented his report, showing assets· of the
Grand Lodge, $37,167.47.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extend~cl to th•:
York Grand Lodge of l\Iexico; also to the Grand Lodge of Porto Rico.
CHARLES MILLER SMITH, Grand l\Iaster, Globe.
GEORGE J. RosKRUGE, Grand Secretary, Tucson.

pine Islands, and recognition was denied to the Reformed Grand Lodge
of Hungary.
The committee httd this to say concerning the cipher ritual :
The Cip.her Ritual still continues to be a thorn in the side of
pure Masomc teacl11ngs. Our condemnation of the same cannot be
~co. stron.g.
Our s1~ter jurisdiction, Tennessee, has taken the
!111t1at1ve 111 tl11s. Strmgent measures should be taken to suppress
Its use.
c

'.J'he Grand. Orator, Brother G. Walter \,Yells, delivered the annual
orat1.011, for wh1:h he received the thanks of the Grand Lodge, and the
orat1?n, by mot10n duly made and seconded, was ordered printed in
full 111 the Proceedings.
Brother .G.eorge T. Black submits the report on Foreign Correspondence, g1v1ng a condensed review of the Proceedings of most of
the ~rand Lodges with which Arkansas is in communication. Califorma, however, happens to be omitted.
DAYlD I. l\l1LLS, Pine Bluff. Grand Master.
R.·. w.·. FAY HEMPSTEAD, Little Rock, Grand Secretary.

ARKANSAS.

1913.
A portrait of the newly elected Grand Master, Most Worshipful
David I. l\Iills, offers the frontispiece to the Proceedings, and discloses
a strong, virile countenance.
The M. ·. w. ·. Grand Lodge of F. & A. Masons of the State of
Arkansas, met at its Seventy-second Annual Communication, in Grand
Lodge hall in the Masonic Temple in the city of Little Rock, on
Tuesday, the 18th clay of November, A. D. 1913, A. L. 5913, the same
being the third Tuesday of November, at the hour of 10 o'clock of said
clay, and was opened in ample form, with Grand l\Iaster William T.
Hammock presiding.
The Grand Master's address is a businesslike document. He
proceeds immediately to business and renders an exhaustive report of
his activities, setting forth in detail his official actions, which consisted
in part of granting dispensations to form two new Lodges; of the
placing of five corner stones under :.Iasonic auspices; many visitations
to subordinate Lodges, and the acceptance of a limited number of
invitations to attend functions in foreign jurisdictions. He found
time to attend two of these functions, one being the ceremony of
George Washington Lodge No. 9, at St. Louis, Mo .. upon the occasion
of the reception of the 'Traveling Silver Trowel. The other function
which he was able to attend in a foreign jurisdiction was the annual
meeting of the vVashington Memorial Association at Alexandria, Va.
Fraternal recognition was upon recommendation of the Committee
on Foreign Correspondence extended to the Grand Lodge of the Philip-

BRITISH COLUMBIA.

1914.
The . opening pages of the .volume contain splendid photographi~
representat10ns of Most Worshipful David \Nilson, Grand Master in
1898; o.f Most Worshipful R. Eden Walker, Esq., :\!. D. Gram!
Master 111 1899, and of the Most Worshipful Brother William Henderson, Crane! Master 1913.
The Forty-thircl Annual Communication of the Most Worshi f 1
Grand .L o cl ge o f A nc1ent,
·
F ree and Accepted Masons of British
P u
Columbia was opened in Ample Form in the city of Prince Rupert on
Thursday, the 18th clay of June A. D. 1914 A L 5914 t th h
of 10 ' I
,
. .
, . .
• a
e our
o cock a. m., G~and l\Iaster Wilham Henderson presiding.
W1th111 the precedmg year seven so-called emergent communications
~e:e held for the p11rpose of the dedication of Masonic Halls the
aymg of cornerstones of public buildings, etc.
'
Immediately after the opening of the Grand Lodcre telegrams 0 f
congratul a t"1.on an.cl f cl"1c1tat10n
· ·
"' ' Grand Lodge
were exchanged with the
of Oregon 111 sess10n at the time.
h" The .Grand Mas:er sets forth in a concise and busi1 1 ess-like manner
t~s official. conduct 111 the year. He was specially active in visitations
M suborc.!111ate Lodges, having benefited by his inspiring presence
asonry 111 practically every corner of the jurisdiction.
.
He rep?rt~ a cond!tion of harmony not only within the j uriscliction
Itself, but 111 its rclat10ns with sister jurisdictions. He reports that

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the only ruling asked of him within the vcar was one which he considered outside of his province to deal ~vith and therefore made no
decision
the matter.
That British Cc;lumbia is prospering may be judged from the fact
that within the year dispensations to form eight new Lodges were
granted.
Numerous special dispensations for various purposes were grante•1,
not less than seven s11eh dispe1i:;ations to subordinate Lodges to attend Divine service, a common form of special dispensation in the:
Grand Lodges of Canada, rarely granted in the Grand Jurisdictions of
the lJnited States.
The total membership of this jurisdiction now aggregates neark
7,176, a net gain of between 1i1·e and six hundred over the preccdin;
year.
The Most Worshipful Grand Secretary W. A. DeWolf-Smith is
also Chairman,
is well known, of the Committee on foreign Corrcsponcknce.
His reports arc always refreshing and foll of interest, the present
report being no exception to the rule.
\Ve are in agreement with him concerning the tendency of Grand
Lodges to interfere with and gradually absorb the prerogatives of
subordinate Lodges. His comment upon this subj cct, taken from the
introduction of his report, is as follows:
_ The year has b~en devoid of startl~ng occurrences, the chief
~eatu;c, perhaps, be111g the tendency or some Grand Lodges to
mtenere with the prerogatives of their Lodges. This is most
!1ot1ccablc in the Republic to the south of us. although the same
mfluences arc at work 111 some of our Canadian Jurisdictions. It
i~ to be hoped tl_iat the advice of :\I.'. \V.'. Brother Gorrell, of
Saskatchewan, will be taken to heart, "Let us stick to the old
ways"; although . his Grand Lodge is one of those which is
much taken up with some of the new ideas.
California, 1912, is fraternally considered and complimentary
allusion made to the extremely generous nature of the relief work
performed in this jurisdiction.
He observes that we work upon what was called (from its place
of origin), the "\Visconsin" plan, which is that the Lodge to which
the brother belongs is bound to relieve his necessities, wherever he may
be. He dissents from this method and holds. that it is the duty of
every Mason to relieve a brother applying to him, if the applicant is
worthy,
far as he can do so without injury to himself.
So do we. So does California, and this is now and always has
been the practice in California, and relief has never been contingent
upon reimbursement by the brother's home Lodge, as may be clearlv
found from the hundreds of thousands of dollars paid out by ou~
Boards of Relief in this State for which no reimbursement has ever
'-iccn made, and in thousands of cases never even thought of; but

California holds, and justly holds, that if a distressed brother's Lodge,
to which he has perhaps paid dues for many years, is able to make~
reimbursement for advances to relieve his distress, such reimbursement
is right and proper.
JAMES STARK, Crand l\faster. Vancouver.
Dr \V. A. Ih:\VoLF-SMJTH. Gram! Secretary, :'.\cw \Vcstminster.

24

25

CANADA.

1913.

An excellent portrait of the newly elected Grand Master, l\fost
\Vorshipful Brother \V illiam David '.\Jc Pherson, forms the frontispiece
of the Proceedings and shows a keen, alert and withal genial countenance.
The fifty-eighth Anmwl Communication of the Grand Lodge of
A. F. & A. M. of Canada, in the Province of Ontario, was held at the
city of Ottawa, commencing \V cdnesday, the 15th day of July, A. D,
1913, A. L. 5913. with Grand !\laster, Most Worshipful Brother Aubrey
Whif<e "on the Throne."
The Grand Director of Ceremonies introduced a deputation from
the Ottawa City Council, consisting of l\fr.]. \Vcllington Nelson, Controller and Acting l\fayor, who extended a warm welcome to the members of Grand Lodge and expressed the hope that their visit to the city
would prove a very pleasant one and of benefit to the :\fasonic Order.
The 1\1.'. \:V.'. Grand Master replied, thanking the deputation for the
kind remarks, and acknowledging the warmth of hospitality of the
citizens which had been extended to the members.
In his annual address Grand :\laster \Vhite remarks as follows:
Last year I took occasion to congratulate Grand Lodge upon
its meeting being held in the metropolis of the Province of
Ontario. I am now to congratulate Grand Lodge upon meeting
in the metropolis of the Dominion of Canada-the center of our
political system and national life, where our laws are made and
whence !'.le administration of our innumnablc affairs is directed.
I invite you to observe the appearance of growth and prosperity
which prevails. the hcautv of .situation, the e\'idenc<' of future
possibilities--all of which· warrant us in believing that although
Ottawa's selection as the capital of Canada caused a change of
g-overnment, no mistake was made. Being the capital of one of
the maj nr stars in that constellation of nations called the
British Empire' is a great position. and we congratulate Ottawa
upon the part it is designed to pby in the future of our country.
\Ve rejoice, too, that this city lies within our own ·Masonic jurisdiction, because Masons who come from all over Canada to attend
Parliament or transact business at the seat of government are
treated with great kindness and hospitality by our Ottawa brethren, and carry away with them a good opinion of the work and
Masonic life prevailing under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge.

26

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Here, too, is the residence of the representative of His
l\Iajcsty, King George the Fifth-that link of silk st~ongcr than
forged steel in binding us to the l\lother Country. I• or the last
two years the positicn of Governor General has lieen most acceptably Jilkcl by his Royal Highness the Dd::e of Connaught, Gra~1d
Master of the l\lother Grand Lodge of England, who, with
his gracious consort, has been taken to ~heir hearts. by the people
of Canada. W c learned with great anxiety of the illness of Her
Roval Highness and our prayers have gone up to the Throne of
Gritcc for her speedy recovery. W c thank Goel for his. kindness
in• preserving her life and we rejoice to know that she 1s makmg
satisfactory progress towards complete health, and we hope . 111
the providence of God that they may shortly resume the active
duties of their exalted station.
A year of marked activity in l\Iasonic work was manifested under
Grand l\Iaster vVhite as shown among ether things in the granting of
dispensations to form eleven new Lodges; in the dedication of ten new
Lodge halls; in the placing of Jive corner stones of public buildings
under .:IIasonic auspices.
That the jnriscliction of Canada is one that not only teaches
l\Iasonic charity but practices the same, we learn that there was expended for benevclcnce, from funds through the year, $33.835.00.
The Proceedings of the Annual Communication were enlivened by
clistingu'shed visitors from abroad in the persons of the l\Iost \IV orshipful Brother John E. Wright, the Grand l\Iaster, and Right vVorshipful
Brother \\Till H. \\!byte, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of
Quebec.
The iiwitation issued by the Grand Lodge of Oregon to the Grand
Lodge of Canada to participate in a convention to be held at San
Francisc~ in 1915 for the purpose of forming a central representative
l\Iascn'.c Body, was declined for the co:;cnt reasons set forth as follows :
That the Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted :\Iasons
of Canada in the Province of Ontario is a sovereign and independent Masonic bodv · that it cannot 11Ccome a member of a central
representative l\{a~onic body without surrendering some. portion
of its independence; that in the opinion of the com1rnttce 1t 1s not
necessary. wi,.e or expedient that such imlepcndence should be
irnpaircll to any extent; and the committee recommend~ that this
Grand Lodge do not participate in the proposed convent101~ at San
Francisco, nor take part in any mm·cment for the format10n of a
central representative l\Iasonic body.
The report on Foreign Correspondence was :;ubmitted by Past
Grand l\Taster A. T. Freed.
California, 1912, 1s fraternally reviewed.
We quote Brother
Freed\ c"nclusinn as follows:
One ric;es from a perusal of the Proceedings of more than
,ixtv Cram! Lodges with a conviction that, at present at least,
:\Liscnry throughout the world is at peace. There is not a disturbance in any quarter-scarcely a ripple visible to the naked eye.
Tbt: bodies n·crywhcre appear to be drawing more closely to-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

27

gethcr, to work more in harmony, and to understand each other
better. The conferences of Grand l\lasters in the United States
appear to produce good results.
The steady, i;egular growth of the order in numbers is really
remarkable. There is not a Grand Lodge in the world which does
not report an increase of strength. At the same time there is
evidence on every hand of greater carefulness in the selection of
material. The standard of membership rises year by year.
Masonic benevolence is more carefully watched than formerly.
While the amounts given to the needy steadily increase in volume,
greater care is exercised in systematizing the charities and cuttingoff impostors. It is not possible wholly to prevent fraud, but system and co-operation do much toward that end.
On the whole, Masonry never stood so high as a worker of
good, and never exercised so beneficial an influence on the world's
thought and the world's morality, as it docs now when it approaches the end of the second century of its existence as an
organized body.
It is much to be regretted that several reports have failed
to reach the committee in time for review this year. At the time
when the printer thinks the copy must be "all in" the Proceedings
of the Grand Lodges of Arizona, Costa Rica, Cuba, Montana, New
York, South Australia and Victoria have not been received.
All of which is fraternally submitted.
·
A. ·T. FREED, Chairman.
vVILLIAM DA\'ID McPHERSON, Toronto, elected Grand Master.
R. L. GUNN, Hamilton, re-elected Grand Secretary.

COLORADO.
1913,

The M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge, A. F. & A. .Masons of Colorado met
in its Fifty-third Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, in Denver,
Colo., ·Tuesday, September 16, 1913, at 10 o'clock a. m., with Grand
Master George E. Simonton presiding.
The frontispiece of the Proceedings is a portrait of Most Worshipful William S. Pickerill, the newly-elected Grand Master.
In glancing over the biographical sketch of the Grand Master
elected, we find that he is 46 years of age. The picture presented upon
the opening page of the volume shows a youthful appearance and
must have been one of Brother Pickerill's pictures taken in the heyday
of his beauty, many years ago.
Grand Master Simonton givC's the following as a portion of the
Introductory of his annual address:
Freemasonry teaches the things that are true and noble. and
offers abundant opportunities for the development of mind and
?eart. Truths that ennoble, purify and bless our race are strongly
impressed upon us. We are urged in the most forcible manner,
by every possible lesson, to the performance of such duties as will

REPORT ON CORHESPONDJ<JNCE.

29

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
make goocl. true ancl noble men, am! earnest workers for the goocl
of socich·. \Ve arc taught to he better husl1arnls and fathers; more
earnest ;tml zealous citizens; we are charged to be loyal to the
countn· in which we li\·e; pledged to the acl\'anccmcnt of the
ci\'iliz;;tion cf man, ancl the practice of the czirclinal ,·irtucs.
\Ve shoulcl encleanJr to maintain and loyally exemplify the
tenets of our profcssi,•n. ".lay this Rrothcrhoocl, which has withstood the test of time, the attacks of ignorance, bigotry and superstition; t]Ji:; fraternit\· which has sun·ivecl the centuries and still
presses forward with ·\'igorous step; this Institution'. which sta1:ds
with its face towarcl the rising sun, rc:icly to hail the light of cornmg
clay, reccin· our most earnest support. our unfailing interest and
our fraternal cln·otion.
.\mong the official acti\·itics of the Grarnl l\Tastcr within the
year \\'el'l' the placing· of corner stones lo three public buildings,
\·i,·itations to a brge number of suhorclinatc Loclgcs, dedication of
:\fasonic halls, etc.
Frakrnal recognition was extcrnkcl in accordance with the recommemlation of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence to the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islancls.
c\n eloquent oration was cldivcrecl by Robert :\f. Simons, which,
011 motion cluly seco11clccl, was rccci\'ccl and orclerccl printed in the
l'rncce,Jings, ancl the thanks of the Grand Lodge were extended to
Brother Simons.
The fo!1m,·ing is the conclusion of Brother Simons' masterful aclclrcss:
".L•sonn· teaches us to· re2·arcl our Brothers' welfare as our
own. That -commancl is impcr:1tive and must be li\·ecl up to. There
is no way liy ,,-hich we can shift the responsibility. vVe must keep
in mind "·h:it will promote the welfan' of our Brother in every department of life. "J\s ye would that others sl1oulc1 do unto you,
clo \T C\'Cn so unto them."
-\\'ar ancl bloodshecl arc still rampant in m;my lands, women
and chilclren arc 011ffcrinc>· untold atrocities, am! civilization stands
iclh- 11\· in selGsh incliffcr~·nce. Onr \'Oiccs shoulcl he lifted in protest a~ainst this monstrous wrong-, and our govC'rnment should be
macle lo rcco,,;nize ancl hcecl our opposition, to bloodshed and
oppression.
\Ve arc om brother's keepers, too, in every-clay life. It is
ovr clnt\· lo clccry the present tcnclencics in literature, especially
in the daily newspapers. Tt is our duty to sec that the craze for
amliscmcnt is not taken advantage of. by the mercenary and unscrnpulous, hit that the entertainments provided shall be free from
suggestlYeness or in1n1orallty.

The mm·in<r picture. whicl1 has snch tremendous power as an
uplifting :ind educating· inthiencc, can easily be mack a menace to
e\Tn· lio\ and ((·irl in our Janel, unkss wise hcacls and firm hands
gl'ifl;· it .into the proper channels.
".f:1sonic influence is great enough and strong enough to corH'ct the social and political evils of the clay, if we but do our duty
individually. Brethren, in the name of Him in whom we have put
01ir trnst. kt ns be up and doing, let 115 hanish apathy and indif-

fcrencc and fight the goml light fur purity, honor and righteousness everywhere.
"?dasonry Di\'ine, forever blcst,
Brings light to the world o'er mountains' tall crests,
Sublime in its spknclor, perfect and right,
Circl on your armor to fight the good Jight,
Of truth, love ancl happiness,
O'er life's stormy seas,
And ilounting our banner as it wa vcs in the breeze,
Before all the work! as a Beacon of Life,
Cheering us on in our troubles and strife."
J\Iasonry throughout the worlcl stands at the he;tcl of all fraternal organizations as an example of that house, not made with
hands, Eternal in the Heavens.
Brother Z. X. Snyder, Grand Chaplain, clc!i,·crecl an interesting
address, which is also published in full in the Procecclings.
The jurisdiction of Colorado is in a prosperous condition; the total
membership at this time exceeding 16,000, showing a net g:iin of something more than 600 owr the preceding year.
Brother Lawrence N. Greenleaf S\lbmitted his twenty-ninth report,
in which he reviews the Proceedings of the English-speaking Cram!
Lodges.
California, 1912, is fraternally considered.
We quote from Brother Grcenlcaf's "Conclusion" as follows:
A large number of Grand Lodges have alrcacly become members of 'The George Washington l\fasonic National Memorial Association and its permanent organization seems now assured.
A live question is the admission of a Brother as :i visitor who
hails from a const"ituent of a Grand Lodge, admittccl to be regular,
yet not formally recognized. A case in point was that of a member of a Lodge in this Jurisdiction who \'isited his native town
in Sweden and was denied admission because the Grand Loclge of
Sweden and the Grand Lodge of Colorado had not established
dir€ct fraternal relations.

*

*

*

*

Speaking of documentary edclencc, It availcth nothing now-adaY.s for a Mason to carry his l\Jasonry in his head without certification in his pocket. It is the lraYeling carcl in a new guise, against
which once there was such a hue and cry. But times change
and circumstances alter cases. The Grand Lodges that have not
adopted documentary cviclcncc 11111st soon fall into line for the
benefit of their own members when visiting other Grand Jurisdictions.
WM. S. PICKERILL, Durango, was elcctecl Grand ]\faster.
CHARLES H. J ACOBSF.N, Denver, re-elected Grand Secretary.

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
CONNECTICUT.

1914.

The One Hundred and Twenty-sixth Annual Communication of
the l\Iost Worshipful Grand Lodge of Connecticut, A. F. & A. M. was
held at Masonic Temple, in the city of Hartford, commencing February
4, A. D. 1914, A. L. 5914, at 11 a. m., Grand Master Wilbur S.
Comstock presiding.
Grand Master Comstock sets forth in a concise and business-like
manner his official activities within the year. He· refers to the Conference of Grand Masters held 111 1913, at Indianapolis. He was unable to attend, but ·expresses himself concerning these meetings as
follows:
Such conferences ought to prove of value, and the interchange of ideas among the different rulers of the Craft would
seem to furnish the most practical means of securing uniform
legislation by the different Grand Lodges upon important points.
While some have expressed a fear that such conferences are but
an entering wedge towards the formation of a General Grand
Lodge with sovereign powers, we do not share such fears. It is a
historical fact that this has in the pas·t been attempted in vain.
In any event, all Grand Lodges can (and most of them probably
will) easily and successfully refuse to surrender their sovereignty.
He also refers to the invitation, which he was unable to accept, to
attend the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association, held at
Alexandria, Va., on the 22nd of February, 1913. Concerning this
organization, he expresses himself as follows :
The object of this organization was originally to provide
a fire-proof building in which the priceless relics of Brother
George Washington, now in the possession of Alexandria-Washington Lodge, might be preserved, and secure their removal from the
old and insecure building where they are now kept. Gradually the
scope of the movement grew until it now includes the erection of
a Memorial Temple, the title to wbich is to be vested in the
association, now a permanent organization, and thus to be owned
by the entire fraternity of the United States. With these objects,
I am in lively sympathy and trust that this Grand Lodge will be
fully represented at the February meeting of the association.
From the report of the Grand Secretary, we observe that $1468
was contributed to the Wes tern Flood Fund; certainly an excellent
showing for a jurisdiction no larger than Connecticut.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
The following resolution was adopted:
No brother subject to a Jurisdiction which is not recognized by
the Grand Lodge of Connecticut shall be admitted to any Lodge,
unless

REPORT ON tORRESPO);DENCK

31

First: he is duly vouched for, or unless his certificate shows
that he has been initiated according to the ancient rites and ceremonies in a Lodge professing belief in the Grand Architect of the
Universe, and
Second: not unless he himself shall acknowledge that this belief is an essential landmark of the Fraternity.
Provided: that nothing in the foregoing shall be construed as
allowing the admission of a brother who is subject to any Jurisdiction against which an edict of non-intercourse has been, or
shall be, issued, while such edict is in force. Nor shall it be construed in favor of any member of a clandestine Lodge.
The jurisdiction of Connecticut is in a thrifty and prosperous
condition. The total membership now approaches the 25,000 mark, the
exact number being 24,815, which is ,;n increase over the preceding
year of 611.
Grand Secretary George A. Kies submits the report on Correspondence.
California, 1912, is briefly considered, attention being devoted
principally to the Masonic Homes of California.
EDGAR H. PARKJo:MAN, Thompsonville, elected Grand Master.
M. ·. W. ·. GEORGE A. K1Es, Hartford, elected Grand Secretary.

DELAWARE.

1913.

The One I~ unclred and Eighth Annual Communication of the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of A. F. and A. M. of Delaware was
held in the Masonic Temple, city of Wilmington, October 1 and 2, 1913.
The W.'. M.'. Grand Lodge was opened in Due Form at 12 o'clock
noon by the M. '. W.'. Grand Master, Edward H. Walls.
The Grand Master, in his annual address, states that he has, within
the year, visited all but one Lodge of the jurisdiction and, except for
illness, he would have made the list complete.
One hundred and fifty dollars was forwarded by him as a contribution in aid of the flood sufferers in Ohio.
The Grand Master in his address says :
I find that our Lodges are being imposed upon by visitors being vouched for who are not entitled to visit, they, at the same
time, being suspended or expelled from their own Lodge.
I would recommend that all visitors to subordinate I.odges in
this jurisdiction be required to furnish evidence of good standing
by presenting either a card or certificate, and visitors not having
complied with this regulation during the year shall not be admitted.
He makes the following comment relative to the Masonic Horne:
At the beginning of the year we found the Masonic Home remodeled and furnished, with all bills either paid or enough funds

32

REPO..'l'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
in hand and
howcver,

to mcC't the same. The grounds and outlmildattention. During the year stone driveway
down, cement walks laid around the buildings, new
new drams and a sanitary cesspool put in, and the
order. I\Iany other minor improvements which were
to fit the property for our purpose and convenience

The Report 011 Fraternal Correspondence is hy Past Grand I\faster
Harry Jones Guthrie.
California, ·1912, is concisely though intelligently reviewed.
Brother Guthrie's conclusion

in part as follows:

Only these who have been
in the work can realize the
tremendous amount of time
in perusing the manv thousands of pages of t_he sc\eral printed Proceedings and the- culling
out of the transactions that wliich will be of interest to brethren
who desire to be informed of the constructive accomplishments of
the ?lfasonic Craft. In some instances we have used the scissors
and the .paste, but only where :;1c language used was superior to
our ah!lity to reproduce the thought. \Vhere comment has been
indulged in we sincerely tn:st the thought
will be accc:pted by the beloved brethren of the Round
as made bv one
who has the
interest of the Craft at heart; who would not
offend; who
not have a desire to talk for talk's sake· who
does not think he ki:o:vs it all, _and while entertaining an opinion
does not deny the pnnlcge to l11s brethren.
.
It is gratifying to be able to say that the Masonic fraternity
1s harmomous and generally prosperous; great increases have been
made here and there in membership, and yet prosperity is not to be
measured hy wealth nor in members. 'The
mission of
i;; i~1 ~ri1_iging 01:der out of chaos and
overcoming inJ unsd1ct10n attains a truly prosperous and healthv condition only when its constituency stands four square every man
shoulder to
in the recognition of the claims' of unselfish
good citizenship.
word to the wise is sufficient.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link, and j udginrr from
the reports of Committees on (~ricvanees there arc a fe,~ of these
weaklings. The fact that there is work for a committee of this
name is sufficient evidence that there is an ideal influence in the
economy of freemasonry that is constantly at work urging us
upward and onward.
From the latest returns we find there are over one and one-half
millions. of Ma~ons in the
today; 90,000 of these
were raised during t11e last year.
has been an affiliation of
26,000 to offset the dismission of 27,000. and a restoration of 6 000
to
the suspension of 16,000, and the expulsion of 400, an' aploss of I 1.400, or kss than 10 per
(<f the total gain,
and kss than 1 per cent of our entire
Of the 10,000
suspended mcml;ers, less than 15 per cent were
for absolute unmasonic conduct. As a moral force
in the
Unitcll States today is a
bold fact
for
that. That leads us to
\Vhat arc we
and
one-half million men doing for the 1 per ccntum of lost 1 w~n,-,,."
the fellow that got in wrong? \Vhat are we doing to heal the

33

place from which the
one please work
out this forty-eighth
The recognition
'York. l\Iexico, continues suspended betwixt
and between, while documentary evidence as a prerequisite to examination is still the cause of
am! long talk, although
legislation along that line has
made compulsory in nearly
every jurisdiction, owing to the stand taken by one or two large
jurisdictions forcing the issnc
adopting the card system of identification. \Ve hope the
and term password will not be
soon sprung.
Attending church as a Lodge in regalia seems to be in
in many jurisdiction<.
are not strong on the "as a Lodge,"
less so "in regalia."
writer is j l1st old~fashioned enough to
think every J\Iason shouhl go to some church at kast once on each
Sunday on general principles.
FR.\NI.:

B. ?\[Assn', Crand Alaster, \Vilmingt<ll1.

,JllRGINICS V. HARRl:-'ON,

~

Grand Secretary. \Vilminglon.

DISTRIC'T OF COLUMBIA,

1913.
The n1lurnc of Proceedings opens with an excellent portrait ·of
Grand Master Charles E. Baldwin.
A Special Cornnwnication of the Grand Lodge was held in the
Masonic Temple in the city of \Vashington, Jamrnry 13, 1913, for the
purpose of constituting Eastgatc
X o. 34.
A Special Communication was held in ?>fa.sonic Temple in the city
of \Vashington, February 13, 1913, for the purpose of laving the cornerstone of All Souls' Church aml the Edward Everett Tialc :\Iemorial
Parish Home. J\t both of these Special Communications the Grand
Master, Rev. Charles E. Baldwin, presided.
\Villiam Howard Taft. thrn President of the enitcd States, was
present at the last mentioned ceremony and spoke as follows·
}Jy Dear Friends: \Ve arc met
to !av the cornerstone
of. a cl111rch to he erectccl in
capital of the country. in ·which the doctrines of lihcral
will he preached
and the love of Goel and the hrothcrl10od of m;m inculcated. and a
b'.oad spirit of charity and '.olcrancc in the religious helids of man~
kmd manifested.
In this center of political inflt1cnc<'-in this home of the sov"
ereig:nty of Americal) people-it is well that the Unitarian Church
should have
representative of a church
founded in the
conviction and of confidence
in the justice
love of an all-wise am! all-merciful God, and
dedicated to the teaching and spread of the principles of a broad
and rational Christianity.
The site which has been selected and the edifice which has been
deS1€[11E:d and projected-all insure an opportunity for greatly inthe influence of Unitarianism in this capital and in the
country. We may properly hope that from the new All Souls'

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
Church and the parish house, bearing the name of Edward Everett
Hale, which are to be united under a common roof at this place,
shall radiate an influence making much for rightcottsness and the
highest ideals of true religion.

Several other Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were
held within the ~·ear for various Masonic purposes, and the first Stated
Communication of the Grand Lodge \Vas held, in accordance with the
Constitution, on the 8th of .:..Iarch, 1913, for the purpose of exemplifying
the work of the several degrees. This ceremony was conducted under
the supervision and direction of vV.". Brother vVilliarn J. Xaylor, chairman of the Committee on vVorks and Lectures.
At the conclusion of the ceremonies the Grand ]\faster congratulated the Grand Lecturer and Brother Kaylor and the officers of the
Lodge of Instructions upon the admirable proficiency with which the
work of the se,;,eral cle'.:'Tces had been rendered.
The second Stated Communication of the Grand Lodge was held
in accordance with the constitution on l\Iay 14, 1913, Grand Master
Baldwin presiding.
General business was transacted. Amon:r other things done at this
session was the extension of fraternal reco<.:nition to the Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands.
The One Hundred and Third Annual Communication was held in
l\lasonic Temple, December Ii. 1913, 1\1.". W.". Charles E. Baldwin,
Grand Master, presiding.
Distinguished visitors in the persons of Past Grand Master John E.
Cowles of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky. Past Grand Master William H.
l\ichols of the Grand Lodge of Texas, and Past Grand Master Milton J.
Hl111 of the Grand Lod§;e of :-\ebraska were received with Grand Honors and invited to the East.
Grand :\faster Baldwin submitted the following relative to l\{asonic
clubs:
!
The popularity of the Masonic Club is increasing. At the present time there are four such on_:anizations in the jurisdiction. The
Trowel Club, which is composed of Masons employed in the United
States Geological Survey. and the Fellowship Clnh, whose memhers arc employed in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, have
bren referred to in the previous Grand Lod!!e Proceedings. Two
others have been organized during the year, the Trestleboard Club,
whose members arc employed in the Government Printing Office.
and the Comp;iss Cluh, but recently formed hy Masons employed in
the city postoffice.
I have had the pleasnre of
meetings of all of these
clubs, and having learned of the motives
prompter! their organization, I do not hesitate to express my entire approval of their
purposes and of the good work
have done and are doing in
the interest of Marnnry.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

35

The
of these organizations ar perhaps somewhat m1sumlcrstocd.
are not clubs in the ordinary acceptation of that
term-that is, they are not formed for the sole purpose of individual
plcastire and amusement. \Vhile they do aim to cultivate mutual
social enjoyment, they also, by their own methods, endeavor to
develop a closC'r acquaiiitance and friendship with those with whom
thev come in contact in their clailv lahors for their mutual benefit.
By. well organized committeC's th~y are able to look after the sick
and to administer relief and comfort to those in need. By this system they arc afforded opportunities to cultivate closer fraternal
relations than thev otherwise might, and are thus enabled to· exhibit to c;ich othci the fullest measure of l\fasonic fellowship.
The financial balance sheets submitted at the Annual Communication show that the Crand Lodge is meeting its financial obligations
with a good dt'al of skill and judgment, total assets of nearly $300,000
being disclosed and a gradual and substantial liquidation of indebtedness.
!•
The l\Iason!c Temple financial statement is gratifying and shows
evidence of a coniinued betterment of the material interests of the
Temple.
Past Grand l\faster George \V. Baird submits his fourteenth Report
on Foreign Correspondence.
California, 1913, is considered with intelligent comment on the
salient features of the reports of the Grand ]\faster and committees.
\Ve quote Brother Baird's heczy conclusion, as follows:
On the 15th of ~lay. 1913. at Frcem;irnns' Hall, in London. the
This
Lodge is compnsC'd of "Anglo-·foreign" Lodges, and "Cosmopolitan
Masonry" is its purpose. This is another name for universal
Masonry.
The six Anglo-foreign Lodges composing this body take it in
turns in ;icting as host to the other Lodges. ''On previous occasions the brethren 111et n1(kr the banner of Der Pilger Lodge No.
238. Germany, in 1910; La France No. 2060, French, in 1911; and
Italia Ko. 26i8, Italian. in 1912." Each Lodge is essentially characteristic of the nationality it represents.
'The vVorthv l\foster of Tintcntc-cordial Lodge is Edward Roehrich. P. D. G. ·D. C .. who is an ardent advocate of international
Masonrv.
·
Th( gathering was in Grand Locjge Temple. The Grand throne,
at the left of whic'.1 the \Vorthy l\Iaster had his pl;ice. was taken by
the Pro Grnncl Master, Lord Ampthill, at whose ri?ht was Brother
Ed. Qrarticr-La-Tentc, P. G. M., of the Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina.
The Deputy Grand Master was present.
The ceremonial work. in French. wnsistcd of the F. C. degree, conferred upon Paul Quarticr-La-Tentc, son of the Swiss
representative.
A banquet in Connaui;rh: rooms (Freemasons' Tavern) followed. At the Master's table fiftv guests were seated. Most of the
speeches were in French. The first toast was to King George V.
The following toasts were to the Emperor of Germany, the Presi-

'·E11tcutc-cordiat' Lo<!Pc held its fourth annual reunion.

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
dent of the French Republic, the King of Italy <md the President
of the l;nitcd States. The principal speakers were Lord Ampthill
and i\lonsicnr Ed. Qnarticr~La· Tente.
·
The
Proceedings were public:hed in "The
of June
at No. 5 \Vhitefriars street, London.
\Ve h;l\·e excerpted the above for the information of our readers, and beg leave to invite attl'ntion to evidence of the growing
disposition of prominent ).Iasons toward universal l\fasonry.
more than half the :\lasons in the world dwell in the
States. it is worthy of note that no American representative
of
:Yiasonrv has been identified in anv recent international
.?\Tasonic movement. •
·
The writer is in receipt of a letter written hy a British s11bject
on the 12th
December, 1913, which says in part: "The Pro
Grand :\faster of England (Lord Ampthill) has coolly taken ady;mtagc of his position as vice-regent of the absent Duke of Con·
naught to issue an edict or nkase
the Grand Lodge
Emdand to
valill this latest
from the ostracised (~rand Orient of
These things seem 'negligible qnanto you across the Atlantic. They mean much to us."
erection of Lodges, by the Grand Orient of Italy, in New
New J crsey. etc., is admirably
in a
.'. Brother Charles Smith, Grand
in
::\ ew York, to Ettore Ferari, Grand l'IIastcr in Italy, dated 14th of
::\ ovembcr. 1912.
The subject, Brother Smith says, "is not a new one, hut was
taken up years ago and a thoromd1 investigation made by a committee.'' and he makes it clear that this has prevented the intcrcha1we of representatives which B"oes with formal
The result is that the Grand :\faster in K cw
dieted the visitation of the members of Italian Lodges
all of the
Lodges in New York State.
Itali;in;;
more than one State have asked to erect regular
Lodges where. the ritual may he rendered in the Italian language,
h11t there is tro1:hle in securing a satisfactorv unwritten translation; there is trouble in tmdcrst~mcling whether or not any innovations are made in the rendition, and trouble in makinf( the essen·
ti al
Each ;ind every l\Iasonic jurisdiction- believes its
ritual
be the true and corrc·ct one and that all others are errors.
It is sni<l that in New York Citv only 18 per cent of the population can claim colonial or revolutionary ancestry; that there arc
more Germans than in am· one
in Gcrrnanv: more J rish than
Cermans and more Ttalia11s than
The I rtsh discovered New
York after it had hccmne a success and the Italians have discovered
the Irish and together they have discovered the polls. They have
driven the coffin of t11c republic full of nails and arc now driving
in the cdfin of Fn:t?masonrv.
Grand Orient of Italy chims fraternal relations with
France. Germany, En<;laml, Treh.nrl, Scotland, Greece. L11xcrnho11rg,
XethPrlarnls. Portugal, Spain, N'orway. Switzcrlarnl,
Tn·
key, Egj'pt, Siberia, Argentine, Brazil. Chile. Costa Rica,
Guatemala. Haiti. ::\lexico, Porto Rico, Pcrn, Santo Domingo, San
Salvador.
Venezuela, Colombia, Uruguay, Australia, New
Zealand and
of the Xorth American Gn111d Lodges.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

37

W c used to brag abont "Americanizing" the foreigners, but
where they outn11111hcr us they have turned the- tide the other way;
they elect their men to municipal. state and federal offices even,
and
learned how to
their
drug
Since the prohibition
wave has
in so many States and has affected
Grand
has increased.
Dr.
chief of the drug division in the Bureau
Chemistry, says "in the use of 150,000 ounces of cocaine imported into
this country annttally the consumption is ten times as great as is
needed for medicinal purposes." He also says "at the present time
with an importation of 500,0DO
d
a year, only between 50,000 and 100,000
legitimate purposes,
leaving approximately
the way ior forming
the
habit."
government's drug cxpC'rt has estirnatecl that there are
between 1,000,<XJO and 4,000.000 people in the ccuntry wlw
slaves of cocaine,
morphine or othn lnbit-forming
This evil has
increased >incl· 11roh'bition laws have been
enacted, and,
the internal rcvemtt' rcpCJrts show an in·
crease in the quantity of alclholic spirits distilled.
'When men are deprived of the stimulant they arc accustomed
to they will take any substitttte within reach.
nation has its
stimulant, and those nations
use alcoholic stimulants produce
better men than the others.
writer believes men are better
without anv stimulant, but if we arc obliged to endure an evil let
us take the least injurious one.

T. JoHN NEWTON, Grand Master,

D. C.
ARVJNE W. JoHNs'fON, Grand Secretary, \Vashington, D. C.

ENGLAND.

1913.
The annual Grand Festival was held at F recmasons II all, London,
April 30, 1913, M.'. W.'. Bro. Rt. !Ion, Lord Ampthill, Pro Grand
.\faster, on the throne, M.'. vV.'. Bro. Hon, Sir Newton ]. Moore,
Past Pro. Grand Master, \Vestern Australia, was a distinguished
VISltor. The M.'. vV.'. Pro Grand Master anonunced the inability of
the Grand Master to be present an<l presented the following resolution,
which was unanimously adopted:
the Grand Lodge of England, assembled for the
of Fraternity, do hereby express our heart-felt and
fraternal sympathy· with the Most \Vorshipfol Grand
in
his present grave anxiety, and our dutiful appreciation of
Royal Highness'
intention of hor1oring our Assembly with
his presence had
been possiLk for him to do so. And that we
that the Great Architect of the Universe may vouchsafe
restore Her Royal Highness to health, and grant her many
years of companionship with our Grand Master in his unremitting
labors for the pttblie welfare.

I

i
li,

I:

~·

38

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The announccmC'nt was made that the Grand !\faster had reappointed the Hon. Loni Ampthill as Pro Grand .!\laster for the
ensuing year. Ile thereupon proceeded to invest the Grand Officers
whom the Grand l\Iaster had appointed for the ensuing year.

*

*

*

*

A quarterly communication was held in Freemason's Hall, London,
Scptemlicr 3, 1913, the :i\f.'. vV.'. Bro. Right Hon. Lord Ampthill, Pro
Grand .!\laster on the throne. K ominations were made for the office
of Grand Treasurer. The Board of General Purposes submitted a
report, from which we quote as follows:
An appare1;tly authoritative statement having been made to
an Amenc~n (,rand Lodge, and, as a consequence, extensivelv
c;rcnlated m the United States and Canada, that the M. ·. W. '.
(,rand l\Iaster _not only authorized but himself shared in the
practice c;f1 mak11_1g .!\Iasons "at sight," thus passing candidates by
speci~il dispensation through all the degrees at the same lodge
mectmg, the Grand Secretary has been directed to communicate
to all. Gram! _Lodges in the Vnitcd States and Canada in Masonic
assoc1at10n with the United Grand Lodrre
of England a statement
0
of our precise position in this regard. Rule 195 of 'the Book of
Constitut10ns expressly provides that "?'\ o lodge shall confer more
than one degree on any brother on the same clay, nor shall a
higher degree be c?nferred on any brother at a less interval than
f~n1r weeks from 111s rcce1vmg a previous degree." The M.'. W.'.
~,ram\ :\laster l.1~s no power cx<;:cpt in the case of Lodges abroad
m defined cond1t1ons, to ;;rant a dispensation to permit degrees to
be conferred at ?horter mtervals, and then, by Rule 115, only by
suhst1tut111g an mtcrval _of one week for four; and the board
t!·usts that. this explanat10n of th~ _English practice in this particular, which. has '.tlways been ngiclly adhered to, >vill prevent
the further ctrculat10n of a misapprehension that, if unchecked,
may have senous l\Iasomc consequences.
A quarterly communication was held at Freemason's Hall London
December 3, 1913, .i\I.'. \V.'. Bro. Rt. Hon. Lord Ampthill, Pro Grand
!\faster, on the throne. The Grand Secretary read the following
message from the .!\I.'. \V .'. Grand l\Iaster:
. . It is with _cl~ep satisfaction that I find myself able to sig11,1hze the auspic10ns. occa~10n of the centenary of the union by
an announcement which will, I am convinced, cause true rejoicing
throughout the Craft.
A. body of Freemasons in France, confronted by a positive
prolub1t1on on the part of the Grand Orient to work in the name
of the. Grand Architect of the Universe, have, in fidelity to their
1\1 asomc pledges, resolved _to uphold the true principles and tenets
of the Craft a,nd. have ,umtecl several Lodges as the Independent
and Regular :;-; at10nal Grand Lodge of France and of the French
'.2olomcs. This n_ew body has approached me with the request that
i_t may be recogmzed by the _Grand Lodge of England, and having
1~cc1vccl
assurance that _it 1s pledged to adhere to those principles of T• rccmasonry which we regard as fundamental and

fuJ!

39

essential, I ha,·e joyfully assented to the establishment of fraternal
relations and the exchange of representatives.
\Ve arc thus enabled to celebrate the hundredth anniversary
of that Union which was the foundation of our solidarity and
worlcl-wicle influence, by the consummation of a wish which has
been ardently cherished by English Freemasons for many years
past, and we are more in the happy position of being a~le to
enjov Masonic intercourse with men of the great French nat10n.
I trust that the bond thus estal1lishccl will strengthen and
promote the good understanding which exists outside of the sphere
of Freemasonry.
The Pro Grand Master stated that he deemed it appropriate
that he should acid a few words of explanation. as follows:
The aareement with this newly constituted body of French
Freemason~ is the result of prolonged and difficult negotiations
in which two well-known brethren have heen clcvotccl and skillful
intermediaries. It is no more than their due to mention their
names as thcv hold no official position and have clone their work,
not as' a matt~r of dutv hut from the disinterested devotion to the
Craft. Thev arc Bro. ·Edward Roehrich, who plays so prominent
a part in tl;e work of the Anglo-Foreign Lodges in London, and
Bro. Frederick Crowe, to whose self-clenial, no less than to the
enterprise and generosity of other brethren. we owe the proud
possession of the valuable collection of documents which are now
being displayed in the library.
.
.
.
The Lodge in France which took the lead 111 w1thstand111g the
prohibition of the Grand Orient is the Lodge "Le Centre des
Amis" of Paris, in which the guiding spirit has been Bro. Dr. de
Ribaucourt.
Bro. de Rihaucourt has been elected Grand Master of the
newly constituted Independent and Regular National Grand Lodge
of France, to which, we have good reason to expect, there will
be many accessions of Lodges all over France.
The obligations which will he imposed on all Lodges under
this new constitution arc the following:
(1) While the Lodge is at work the Bible will always be
open on the altar.
(2) 'The ceremonies will be conducted in strict conformity
with the Ritual of the "Regime Rectifie" which is followed by
these Lodges, a Ritl'al which was drawn up in 1778 and sanctioned in 1782, and with which the Duke of Kent was initiated
in 1892.
(3) The Lodge will always be opened and closed with the
invocation and in the name of the Great Architect of the Universe. All the summonses of the Order and of the Lodges will
be printed with the symbols of the Great Architect of the Universe.
( 4) No religious or political discussion will be permitted in
the Lodge.
( 5) The Lodge as snch will never take part officially in any
political affair, but every incliviclnal brother will preserve complete liberty of opinion and action.
(6) Only those brethren who arc recognized as true brethren
by the Grand Lodge of England will be received in Lodge.

40

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
You will permit me, I am sure, to
satisfaction that the privation of l\fasonic
masons in France, which bas for so long caused us so much sadness, is now at an cmL ::\ow that there is a bodv of Frenchmen
a body which I do not doubt will
very largely, who regard
from the same point
view as we do, we can look
forward to a most desirable extension of the principal work
which lies before us, namely, that
promoting good understand111g and
will between nations bv the fraternal intercourse of
men of culture. I venture to think that
no happier or more auspicious event could have coincided with
the celebration of the Union which, effected a hundred years ago
by. the mutual good will and concession of men of truly Masonic
spmt, has n:'.sulted in ever increasing prosperity and power.

M. ·. \V. ·. RT. HoN. LoRn AMPTHTLL, G. C. S. I., G. C. I.
reelected Grand :Master.
V · \V.'. Sm EDWARD L1(TCH\\'Otn'H, F. S. A., re-elected Grand Secretary.
FLORIDA.

1914.
The M.'. \V:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
Jurisdiction of Florida assembled in its
Annual Communication in the city of Jacksonville at 11 o'clock a. m ... Tuesday, January
20, A L. 5914, A. D. 1914.
A constitutional nt.1lnber of Grand Officers and Representatives
of particnlar Lodges being present, the Grand Lodge was opened 111
ample form by M: · W» ·. Grand Master George B. Glover.
The Grand :\faster snbmittcd his annual report, showing a year of
official activity, disclosed in part in the formation of six new Lodges
under dispensation; in the placing of two corner stones of public
huildings; in his attendance upon the conference of Grand Masters in
Indianapolis, and in activities in other directions.
The Annual Communication was enlivened by the reception of distinguislwd Ma sons from another jurisdiction, to wit : Brother Frank
A \Vhitakcr, Grand :\laster, and Brother F. L. Bills, Past Deputv
Grand :\faster of the Grand Lodge of Iowa. They were received witi1
the Grand Honors and made interesting addresses.
Upon recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Queensland, also to the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
Brother Silas B. ·wright submitted his twelfth report on correspondence. California, 1912. ic; considered, with a
quotation
from Grand l\faster :Monroe's
showing the legislation in force
in the variocs American Grand Jurisdictions on the so-called "liquor
question."

41

Brother \~! ri;;ht's conclusion contains much \·aluable and interesting
information, frnm which we make the following liberal quotations:
Having
completed our journey of the Grand Lodges we
present cur twelfth annual report. 'vVe started with a determination to rnrtail our
hut in spite of our good intentions our
pages ha \"C g-rown
all expectations, and there is still
much left mHaid.
threatened "Digres:;ion on Landmarks"
has not yet found
and must wait another year.
As usual the
has been exceedingly
ing and protitahle. \Ve
our readers will
to interest and repay their time spent. vV e find a few of the
old tronhles are cropping out, among which the most frequent is
the "Invasion of Jurisdiction." These arc entirely local and
generally
settled. The edicts of non-intercourse against individual
because some
jurisdiction initiated
some candidate rejected by them
entirely ceased
owing· to the general acceptance of the resolutions adopted by the
Philadelphia conference.
One oi the most remarkable incidents reported is that of a
lodge in a southern city
action against a sister lodge
for the title of the :\lasonic
The Grand :\faster quickly
terminated the matter by the
of the charter of the plaintiff lodge. A summary and very proper remedy.
vVe note an incident or two where the Grand Masters of two
of the states made Masons at sight
the year, but even those
have failed to produce a ripple on
even surface of the
Masonic Sea.
The proposed l\lascnic Sanitarium at Hot Springs is not
receiving very general support, >vhik the \Vashington 1\fomorial
Association is receiving assistance and co-operation where indifference was first shown.
ATTENDING CHL'RCH.
Attending church in regalia is
and frequently indulged in and encouraged by the larger
older Grand jurisdictions and in some cases constitntional amendnwnts have been
adopted permitting it without special
or dispensation.
The writer is heartily in favor of
attendance by lodges
provided it is not in anywise compulsory that members shall
attend,' so that a brother shall not he expected or even asked
to attend a service which would be objectionable to him.
CORKERS'l'ONES.

In the matter of cornerstones our Grand )ilaster ruled that
a church building is not such a building as to receive the distinction of that function
the fraternity, and in another case the
Grand Master refused to
the cornerstone
a national public
brilding because the
rdusecl to allow the usual inscription placed on the stone.

sr. JOHN'S D:\Y,
customs
of the

nothing which better illustrates the change in the
decline in the observance
Masonic Lodges
Lodges are dedicated to
of the St. Johns.

i

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
these Saints and in former times the festivals were celebrated
with scrupulous ceremony and
regularity. In many j urisdictions the Grand Lml["cs still
these anniversaries. The
Grand Lodge of :\fassaclmsctts pride themselves that for more
than a hundred years they ha\T net failed to ccl2brate the 27th of
December.
One of the earliest records of the observance of St.
clay in the United States
in the l\ cw York J\f ercury
Zd, 1753. The Grand Lo<lg;c and city Lodges assembled at
Garden. and being clothed made regular procession to the King's
Arms Tavern, where an elegant entertainment was provided.
The same paper on the 31st of December oi the same year,
gave a particular account of the celebration of St. John, the
Evangelist's day d that year. They reported the arrival of a
commission from the Grand Master of England, appointing George
Harrison.
to he Provincial Grand ]\faster, which was
puLlishcd that
The precession was formed and all attended
service at
church,
The ancient
of SL Joh n's day observance were never
folly revived after the J\lorgan persecution and the old-time frequent display in the streets has virtually disappeared.
hi N'ew York the St. John's day in summer is chosen for the
annual picnic to the Home. l 11 :\ orth Carolina that day is made
the regular annual picnic on
grounds of the home at Oxford
and last summer at least ten
visitors were present. In
Kentucky the same manner of cckhration is held and prizes are
offered to the Lodge making the best showing in proportion to
the membership.
The ccuntry Lode,cs in Florida have frequently celebrated the
snmmer anniversary, but it is not as generally observed as it
should he. American l\lasons do not pay as much attention to the
social side of l\fasonry as is customary in England and among
Continental Masons. The writC'r thinks that it would be better if
we assembled with om families more frequently and learned to
know each other better.
MASONIC HOMl\S.

\Ve have refrained from any extended comment npon the
reports regarding the Masonic Il omcs, for to give
a partial
synopsis would he sure to result in unintentional
criticism.
To present a foll review of the numerous reports would unduly
enlarge our reporL The following from Past Grand Master
Carton, of l\iichigan, on the subject of the
is worthy of a
place here:
'"This i11stit11tio11 is
duty incumbent upon us, it is not
a responsibility, it is a
a magnificent privilege. The poorest man in the world
the man without the respect of his fellow
men. The richest man, though he be ever so poor in material
things, is the man who comman<ls the greatest respect of his fellow
anything. It only destroys. To live is
men. \Var never
to give and to live a
to its fullest measure is to give "l'J the
height of our ability. I say the :Michigan Masonic Home is not a
duty nor a responsibility, hut a magnificent privilege.''

REPORT ON CORRBSPOND.h:NcK

43

CL.\ND(STlNJSM.

The matter of clandestinism continues to claim considerable
attention in various sections of the country, therefore, we deer.n
it proper to spend a little time with our Florida brethren this
vear. on this subject.
•
The Masonic
of the term "clandestiuism" is not
that <dven in the dictionary as "hidden, or secret," but more accordi~g to the definition by, l\fac~e,Y: which is,, "contrary to, o: m
defiance to law!' Under tins deh111t1on each Grand Lodge decides
for itself in its own Grand Jurisdiction, what the law is, and
ust'allv these decisions are largely influenced, if not entire'.y
dictated by a committee. It is claimed by son:e of .the. Masomc
writers, and particularly by some of the Masomc. penod_1calsl, that
Masonic bodies are often regarded as clandestmc which were
formed in perfect good faith and are conducted in full accord
with the Masonic precepts which gov_ern Masonry."
.
With this we must absolutely disagree, However !10nest. m
their convictions the men may be who form these Masomc Bod~es,
they are formed and conducted contrary to the _law r~gard~ng
Ancient Craft Masonry. as handed down to us trom time 1mmcrncrial, therefore they being contrary a:id in defiance of_ law,
are clandestine and must be so treated. It is said that the .stigma
which attached to the name is not deserved; but the assassm who
inflicted the mortal wound upon the President of the United
States was none the less a murderer because he claimed that the
act was justified in the sight of God, and was justifiable under
the circumstances.
Jt is even claimed that the decisions of the committees upon
the regularity of these Bodies are for ~he most part not f1;1n~a­
me11tal, but arc as frivolous as those which separate the C~nst1an
churches, vVith this again we must disagree. The la':" which. de·
dares certain human beings "a bastard" may be s'\1d to hmge
upon a technicality. The absence of "that technicality" is what
makes the nerson a bstard. The absence of the particular element
of regularitv which is so essential in deciding who are not
l\fasons, makes them clandestine and requires that they should
be
declared,
,
Lodges of negr_oes in certain sections of the U~ite~, Stat~s
are ahsolutelv clandestme, and the absence of ccrtam techmcalities" makes them so. This docs not alter the fact that there
are regular legitimate negro Lodges in North America. The
declaration made in many quarters th t these ,ne&To .Lodges are
claimed to be clandestine purely from race pre3ud1ce is untrue.
For the information of many Florida brethren who have no
accurate knowledge of the origin of the American Lodges of
negroes we will state brieflv that in 1784 a Lodge was chartered by
the Gra'nd Lodge of Engla;1d to be known as "Afri.can Lodge," to
be located in Boston. The persons to whom this charter v:as
'granted were nc1rroes who received their degrees in an English
armv Lodge,
This Lodge afterward became absolutely defunct
and' ceased to work or exist for several years. In 1813 all
American Lodges, they having formed independent pra.nd Lodges
of their own, were stricken from the roll of the English Lodges
0

44

REPORT ON COHH.ESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
by the Grand Lodge of England anti the ":\frican Lodge" was so
crzisccl.
The issne of tl1is
tn J\fric;rn Lodge by the. Grand

of Engl::mcl was
contrary to the laws as adopted
Grarnl
lJccausc the Grand
of Massahad been
prcvio11s thereto, and no
charter
could exist in their !nritcrv. Some Years after the
Lodge
had l:ccumc defunct a few ·of the ncgrncs who had been named as
members, under this English chart.er, attempted to revive the
Lodge and it was called Prince Hall Lodgc being named after
the rn:gro who was dc:dgnatcd in the charter as the first Master.
This
Prince J lall Lodge," exercised the powers
of a
aml Prince Hall claimed
be the~ Provincial
Gram! ;\Taster aml issued licenses to
Philadelphia and
>J cw York City, also Olli." in Providence,
to organize
These tudgcs aft<:nvard fonncd a
which
took the name of "Prince Hall Grand
source,
in a general way about all the negro
States
rcccivccl their
'With the effort oi certain Grand Lodges to
the Scottish Rite bodies cbiming regularity in
shcncld be recognized as rcirnlar came the
all of the clamlcstinc
~
Masonic
·formed bv ;\Iasons
were expelled from
because ot their
with ti1c Scottish Rite
by the Grand Lodge to be irregular. The largest of these was
in the state d Ohio am! after having lived for a term
nearly twenty years, has about become def{mct. The organizing Grand Master of the spuriuus Cram! todgc, a man by the
name of Pinney, has applied to the regular l;rancl Lo1lgc in Ohio
for restoration and re~instalelll{'llt.
Ti1cre is an orga11ization in tile state of l\fass;1chusetts which
is making efforts to
among the Lodges there, but as yet
has met with indifferent success.
There is an organization in Montana <md in
the
northwe.stcrn· states, claiming to be a "National
of
Masonic
" who claim to have been instituted by the
prcme
33nl Degree of Louisiana, which derives
authority from the "Grand Council of
of Scotland." But
few h;nc ever heard of the "Grand Council
Rites of Scotland,''
but this organization has been tabooed by
Grand Lodge of
Scotland, with whom we are in affiliation.
American Masonic Federation arc
desperate efforts to extend their
organization, but the Grand
in the northwest do not recthem in any manner.
writer of this report undertl1at it was a Mason from one of the Lodges under
"American l\Ia:.:onic Federation," who applied to one of the
in the western portion of the state of Florida for advancement
as ·'work
courtesy." The fraud was discovered by Grand
l\Iastcr L.
and the applicant
his way without
his
:.\Iasonic
having been
recognition by regular Masonic
refuses to recany of the Crnml todgcs in the
and claim
they have the whole Gel<! to themselves and can establish
Lo<lgcs wherever they sec lit. This is not a theory, but a condition.
1

'1

~;

45

There is another Body claiming to lie Masonic, located in
Cleveland, Ohio, which goes liy the
of "J ndcpcncknt Order of
l:niversal Freemasonry." It has made hut very little
adhcrc11ts, hnt has aroused considerable sympathy
\Ve have not hc('!1 informed of its chain of
legitimacy, l:ut it is almost nnivnsally discredited.
A man
the name of Darias \VilsGn, claiming his head. quarters in
near Boston, for several vcars obtained
notoriety am! pretended to have authority to
degrees broadcast and it is claimed cYen offered to
degrees "by
mail." He has recently been convicted
law in Massachusetts for obtaining
by fraudulent means, bv claiming to
confer .Masonic
were not authorized, ·and sentence
has been
to further ;1 bstain from his
nefarious
The
It:ily has established
is maintaining
toclges in Xew Jersey and in
of which are
clanclcstinc, and their mcmhcrs arc not
am·where outside of their own immediate Lodge
·
should
they go to the kingdom of Italy, where
friends,
but even there they would find other organizations claiming to be
wherein thcv would not be allowed to visit.
Gr;md Lodge of Spain han: also established Lodges in
several of the states in the L'nitcd States.
'
CL\NDf,STlNJS~{

IN NEW YORK.

An
condition seems to
we !Jave
in otir review of
our readers may more fullv understand the
to in our review, we will ·
further.
It seems that the Grand
of K cw York some years
the "Grand Orient
Italv" as regularly
never exchanged
•
for the reason that
they do not exchange
with any organization not a
Sovereign Grand Lodge. The Grand Orient recognized hv them
is presided nvcr by M: I \VI· I Ettore Ferrari, Grand ]\faster. He
is the hear.1 of the J\Iasonic organization with whom the Grand
Master of ?\ ew York .had the
qt•oted by us in our
review of that slate, who applied for an
of representatives because of the edict :w:ainst the rival Orient
During the smmncr o(J 912 there was received in >I cw York a
communication claiming to come from tlic "Most
of the Scottish Rite Ancient and Accepted, for
Italy and Italian Colnnics." This letter was
"Saberio
" in the dual capacity of Crane! Master and
eign Grand Commander.
. In September, 1912, one Francesco ;\fartirano, in company
wrth the Past Master of Italy Lodge No. 786 of New York, visited
the office of Grand
Ehlers in the l\fosonic Temple, for
the purpose of asking
the giving of a dinner to the said
Grand ]\faster
Commander, on his arrival in
X cw York This man,
had in his possession a certificate from the organization under
showing him to be a 32d
Degree Mason.

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
The Scottish Rite Bodv of which Fera is the head is recognized to be regular and legitimate by the Scottish Rite organization of the Northern Jnrisdiction, U. S. A. Under color of this
certificate this man, Martirano, has claimed the
to, and has
communicated th<.' degrees of Craft :!V[asonry to persons in New
York for a small amount of money and certificates of membership
have he en sent from Italy to these parties. One of these certificates is in possession of Grand Secretary Ehlers of the regular
Grand Lodge of New York.
The Italian brethren, members of the regular Lodges in N cw
York City, refused to tender a dinner to Fera, claiming, and
justly so. that M.'. W.'. Ettore Ferrari is the only recognized
regular Grand Master of Craft Masonry in Italy, and that the
body presided over by Fera has never been recognized by the
Grand Lodge of New York.
During- September, 1912. a telegram was received, signed
"Fera," asking the Grand Secretary to arrange an appointment
with the Grand ]\faster that he, Fera, mii:dit "salute him." Replying to this the Grand Secretary, by order of the Grand Master,
said "the Grand Master recmi;nizes .Yf.". W.'. Ettore Ferrari,
Grand l\Iaster of Ancient Craft ),fasonry, in Italy, and reiuses to
receive you in an official capacity."
It will appear from this statement that the Grand Lodge of
New York have recognized as regt'lar in Italy, a Body which
the Supreme Councils A. & A. S. R. of America declare to be
,;chismatic ancl irregular, and the Grand
recognized by the
Grand Councils A. & A. S. R. of America is not and cannot be
rccog11ized by the Grand Lodge of New York. ·The Grand l\faster
of ".'\ ew York. therefore, issued an edict reciting the above facts.
stating that l\·I.'. W.'. Ettore Ferrari is a Grand l\faster of Craft
Masons of Italy. that the said Saberio Fera, claiming to be Grand
:\{aster and Gr;ind Commander A. & A. S. R. in Italy, had commissioned one Francesco :\fartirano in l'\ew York. and l\fartirano
had invested various people in the City of New York \vith alleged
degrees of Craft Masonry, and that the said Sahcrio Fera was in
the United States, all Masons. members of Lodges under the
Grand Jurisdiction of l'\ew York, were forbidden to hold Masonic
conversation with Fera or Martirano or permit anv of these
brethren to visit any of the Lod?"es under the Jurisdiction of New
York.
It wilt thus be seen that the Grand LodP·e of New York have
recognized and declared regular a Supreme Council A. & A. S. R.
in Italy, which has been declared irregular by the Supreme
Council A. & A. S. R. of the :t\orthern Jt•riscliction. and were
obliged to forbid :Masonic intercourse with Forei>rn Masons who
arc recognized as regular by the said Supreme - Council of the
Northern Jurisdiction and that the Supreme Coencil A. & A. S. R.
of Italy duly recognized by the Grand Lodge of X ew York are
declared schismatic and irregular by the Supreme Council A. & A.
S. R. of the Northern Jurisdiction, while the Grand Lodge of
New York has recognized as regular the Supreme Council of the
:t\ otliern Jurisdiction in ;{ ew York
It appears. in the address of the Grand ]\faster, that before
the departure of Fera for Italy, he, with Francesco l\fartirano,
appeared at the Masonic hall in Xew York, upon the occasion of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

47

the meeting of one of the S. R. Bodies, and desired to visit
Martirano was politely but firmly informed that neither would be
admitted as visitors. \!1at the edict issued by the Grand Master
interdicting Masonic intercourse, would be respected by the Scottish Rite brethren claiming loyalty to the Grand Lodge of Kew
York prior to their fealty to the A. & A. S. R. Bodies.
l\f.'. vV.'. CEPHc\S L. vVJLSON, Grand Master, ::\Iarianna.
R.'. VI/.'. W1LBER P. vVEBSTER, Grand Secretary, Jacksonville.

GEORGIA.
1913.

The One Hundred and Twenty-seventh Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons for the state of Georgia
was held in the City Auditorium. in the city of Macon, commencing at
10 o'clock a. m. Tuesday, October 28, A. L. 5913.
·The Grand Lodge was opcncd in ample form on the Master's Degree, and with prayer by Rev. H. G. Edenfield, Grand Chaplain,
M. ·. W. ·. Robert L. Colding, Grand ~faster.
Georgia has produced a long line of illustrious and eloquent
Grand :\!asters and Grand Master Colding is entitled to stand m the
front rank of these virile and splendid men.
The following is from the opening of his annual address:
In e\'erv man there is some good. In tracing the history of
great crimi1;als it is not unusual to discover that they were once
possessed of capabilities for good, but when the hour of destiny
struck. the fated hour that was to determine whether the soul
should he a maj cs tic riwr tlowing between orderly banks or the
devastating flood, mad, rioting through the land, the hand of gentle
guidance was absent and it became a destroying force of anarchy.
It would have been strange indeed had Ishmael loved his Kind!
Just as the tiny twig at brink of mountain spring may dominate
the course of a giant stream, so may one little act of brotherly
love steer a soul to blessed Heaven.
Man is a social, domestic creature, but a dependent one, and if
denied his natural vent his moral parts are dislocated. Indifference is the monster paralysis. chilling alike the veins and arteries
of social man, a withering blight, choking his aspirations, checking
impulses and enen·ating energv. It is a cold November wind, settling with haggard palor upmi the landscape with that sad effect
we have noted on faces which are not old but aged. It overcasts
the hounding ]Jrow of joy; quenches the e!oquent lightness of the
CY<'; lrns!ws the mnry music of laughter with rude stoppage as we
have seen nature frozen into stolidity by sudden swirl of winter's
wind. lt ndthcr climbs nor falls, but, suspended betwixt animation and death, drips its upas moistme on all around. l\lasonry
detests and shuns this miasmatic debilitation.
The first thing God said, in creation, was "I,et there be light."
He loved brightness then; loves it now, and Masonry is the sun of
exhauMlcss radiance, uplifting man and making him more closely
related to his Creator.

48

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

He reports a year of marked activity. He was especially active in
official visitations to ;)ubordinalc Lodges.
Corner stones of two
public buildings were laid with '.\Iasonic ceremonies and other Masonic
functions of a public character were jl('rformcd.
The clo(1uc11l co11clusion of the Crand l\fast<:r's stirring address is
as follows:
Esscntialh· and historically :\Iasonrv is a moral science. It is
likewise go\·crned hy laws which are 1!ot wholly certain but unin:rsal in their applinition and purposes. Its subjects, without exception, should Le controlled by them. and obedience or disobe(licnce make up the test by which they arc ascertained to be worthy
or unworthv :'.llasons, just as the observation or non-observation
of the laws 'of one's country makes a good or had citizen. At the
source of all Frccmasnnn" the fountain head whence flow the
limpicl streams of licm·\·oleiit action and fraternal love, we discover
tlw lm·elv cardinal virtues· Fortitude, Prmlcncc, Temperance and
J usticc. ·They arc clcnominatcd cardinal because they are the center about which it revolves. They are canlinal because they are
of fundamental importance. They are cardinal because they a;e
chief. leading ~:ml pre-eminent; and yet they arc only four 111
number.
Rut did it ever occur to yon in l10w small a circle we find
compressed the cardinal principles of all
government? The
few expressive words in substance from
l\fagna Charta, saying, "\Ve will sell to no man, we will not deny or defer ~o '!llY
man either right or justice." present tl1em all. The Const1tut1on
of the United States, the fundamental law of our land, is an exceedingly short and comprehensive document.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCK
heavenly gentleness, in return for which thou inspircth her with
a faith wh.ch can remove mountains and provideth her with a
heart of ever replenishing charity.
PRUDE:-!' CE.

The virtue which regulates the :Mason's life agreeable to the
dictates of reason and enables him to wisely judge and prudently
determine upon all things necessary for his safety and happiness. \Vhen temptations which ambition so seductiYcly present,
when duplicity and falsehood in double strength would stop the
tread of benevolent purposes, when worldly hopes appeal to lay
aside the pursuit of Masonic knowledge and turn from the contemplation of those virtues whose perfumed wings breathe the
air of Elysian Heights, let him rem em her the l\f asonic obligations
he has taken and brush aside these enemies oi man's soul and be
faithful to the trust reposed in him.
'fEMPER1\NC1'.

Onr ritual tells us that Temperance leads to the due restraint
of our passions and affections which render the body tame and
governable and frees the mind from the allurements of vice. It is
indeed a virtue without pride; a fortune without envy; is equally
the guardian of youth and the support of age. \Vithout it no man,
I care not what his attributes of mind, powers of logic, eloquence
of speech, can be trusted to exercise its companion virtue Justice
with discretion and safety. The temperate mind is ever discrcetno unruly passions assail it. no Yisionary schemes pervert it. The
eye clear to see the right, the hrain calm to weigh it and the heart
hrave to enforce it, will CX('Ctlte in mercy every requirement oi that
Justice which when thus adrninistcn'd weeps with the sufferer, but
with no lighter hand applies the punishment.

FORTITUDE.

'What a grand attribute is the cardinal virtue of Fortitude.
Jn the mythology of Ancient Rome, Truth clothed. in whit~ and
flowing garments, is presented as the mother of virtue, while at
her feet. posed in loveliness, sweet Content and . Beauty r.est
modest and serene; and as 1l1c Ma son of today with hecommg
homage bows before her presence, his eyes looking back through
the corridors of th<: past, follows her gaze until he beholds the
warriors of old dad in the armor of self-reliance. hearing aloft
the hanncr of self-control and wearing the breast-plate of firm
cndnrance. Against him temptation rolls its waves in vain, trials
strike hut do no harm, evils charge but are repulsed, sorrow
mocks hut calrnlv he resists and unbowed beneath the ills upon
him piled. endures and shrinks not, because the brave spirits are
a balsam, to themselves and there is a nobleness of mind that
heals their wounds beyond all salves. 'The Mason of today bestows upon this picture the rever~nce it so well d~serves ar:d
in
so he hears the sweet vmce of truth declarmg how m
the strnng arm of Fortitude protects and defends her,
this
the mother of Virtue.
Fortitude. thou loveth to dwell in woman's heart and be the
monitor of her
life. 1n that blest abode thou art warmed by
a rd or and fed upon the richness of her
the glow of her

JUSTICE.

The virtue which follows upon Temperance is said to denote
the boundary of right, constituting the cement of civil society.
"The inhumanitv of man to man which makes countless thousands
, mourn" is but the natural offspring of injnsticc. Not the injustice
alone which swears away life, takes property, strikes down the
•innocent, and oppresses the weak, but that injustice to truth
which with a
spell holds back the man from swearing to
an effort to make the worse appear the bethis own hurt.
ter part and plates sin with gold so that against it the strong lance
hurtlcss breaks.
Justice which seeks for its encl the ascertainment of truth
and administration of that system of impartiality which renders
unto each man that which should be his due and takes from him
nothing which is his Justice that knows no distinction, but evenhanded holds the
and ernkavors to find where lies the right;
Justice in thought, Justice in act, Justice in speech; Justice that
curves the rash opinion and stills the hasty words of condemnation; Justice that holds before it at all time and under all circumstances that one mighty and great word, Truth.
Then, my brethren, Jet us make the practice of these cardinal
virtues a part of our lives. \Ve were first taught the lessons they

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
tl'ach when we stool! in thl' :\orthcast corner nH:a;,nring our up
wart! path nn<lcr the Rnidann; and protcct111R care of the Master.
Each m;n- well be likened unto the seed wl11ch when cast upon
the ;.;ronncl ;ivcs to mother earth lirst a coat of .beautiful verdure
and :iftnwa;(I the ripened grain. Each is a IK'ant1fol gem of purest
each is a beautiful thread of gold from wluch the perfect
a J\lason shall he fnrmc<l.
Then 1111· brethren. in remembrance of the bkss.ings they have
given us. 'of ·the great truths they teach and the sublime hopes they
liit to view:
"vVean· them into this work-a-day life
These beautiful threads of gold\'V cave a thread oi joy with each strand of strifcF or oh, the hands that hold
:\la\· fashion them out into patterns rare,
l)csigns of beauty new an<l fair,
'Till the Master \Veaver finds them there,
In beautiful threads of gold.

\\7 ea\'C them in with a patient hand,
lkautiful threads of gold.
Fill them in as the artist planned
v\lhen he laid life's sombre fold.
vVeayc them in with the homliest cares
O\·er some burden another one bears.
Clad that the Ma·stcr Weaver spares
Some beat; ti ful threads of gold.

\\I caw them in with the hopes and fears,
Beautiful threads of gold
Brighter the gold of the threa<l appears
As the web of life grows old.
\\!cave them in with a smile and a song,
\Vont!crfnl threads, so tine and strong.
Under the good and over the wrong
\Vca\·c bcautifol threads of golcl.
\Veav<' them in with a watchful eye,
Beautiful threa(ls of gold,
To shine across where the shadows lie
vVhen the web is all unrolled.
Yes, weave them in where the '.\laster's call
Lets the bright thread break and the shuttle fall,
c\ml angels come down to gath<:,r them all,
Life's hrok0n threads of gold.·
A resolution was adopted to the effect that in no instance shall
the Grand Lodge lay the corner stone of any building dcsig11cd for
comnwrcial purposes of any character.
The Committee of General vVclfarc reported a resolution which was
adopted, deprecating the c11stom which had become somewhat common
of late of naming new Lodges for living persons, and rccommcmled

IrnPOHT ON CORHJ,]SPO:\'lll~NCI~.

51

that from this time forward it shall nut he lawiul to select such
names, no .matter h"''. eminent may he the sen· ices of the person thus
honored.
From an examiuation of the stari,;lical rcpcrt, information is obtained that the total membership oi this jnri:-;diction is now
a
net gain in mcmLcr:d1ip over the yl'ar preceding of 1619-a. gain m
lodges of thirteen.
Brother Charles S. Bass snhmits his second report on Foreign
Correspondc>ncc. It is a conci,;e arnl intelligent re dew of the t1'11al
grant! jurisdictions, altlwugh
lwca:.:se of the fact that our
proceedings faikrl to reach him in lime, is not reviewed.
Ron'.R'J' L. Coull ~c. Crand :\laster, Sa,·a1mal1.
\V ..\. \Vol!!Hll\, Cram!
, J\lacon.
IDAHO.

1913.
The Forty·sixth Annual Communication of the :\Inst v\'orshipfol
Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted J\fasons of Idaho convened in the :\lasonic Temple in Pncatcllo. Idaho, the 9th day of
tembcr, A. D. 19!3. A. L ..i913, and was called to order by the :\·lost
\'Vorshipfol Ena A. Burrell, Gram! J\fostcr. at 10 o'clock a. m.
A portrait of the newly-elected Grand J\fa.<ter, Cunis F. Pike, forms
the frontispicci; of the Proceedings.

In Crand J\l aster Ilmrell's
f;Cstions:

we find the

sug-

I am firmlv convinced that onr law rclatiug to the possession of
n certil1cate o{ proficiency. at the time
a brother's election to the
high and
position of
i\foster of a lodge.
should be
so as to have it
the installation and not
the election. For some time I
more or less in sympathy
with the present rule, hut
been brought face to face with
two cases
1ia>-t year
two brothers did not have the
certificate at the time of election, hut did secure
before the
installation. and, therefore, having had a practical
of the actual working of the rule, I have
my mind am!
I don't
how many
believe the law should be
brothers arc now scrvinR their
as llf aster without the
necessary ccrtiticate, for l ban~ not
spending very much of
time in an effort to
up trouble, but I am sure there are
a number,
do not know of
Under a strict
constrnction of the rule·, a Past :\faster could
legally be elected
l\faster, no matter how well qualified, unless he was in possession
of a ccrtiticatc. As the law now stands, a lodge might be forced
to elect an unworthy brother simply because he was supposed to
he qualified to gh·c the work, for such a one may be the only
brother who holds a ccrtilicatc. Although a brother is not supposed to seek preferment in a l\fasonic lodge, he is open to the
criticism that he is doing so vd1e11 he secures a certificate to <lo the

52

ImPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

I!
'i

"

work. because our J11rispnHknce Committee has said that. t.he
of a certilicat\: of prolicicm:y is a necessary prerequisite
to ekction as :\laster. Then again. while the ability
to do
work in an dficil'nt manner is, and should be, a necessary
qualiJ;cation. it is hy no means the only one a .:\Jaster should. have,
am! the lodge shcn1ld not he place(! lll. the
of hav:n~ to
choosL' i~s chief and most important otficer from a very hm1ted
irnmhcr of it;; memhers.
l offrr another
nn·pstmn which has refrreuce to the physical
qualilications of
petitioners. [ have re~eived several
kitt•rs from lm\gc,,;, and from memhe,rs as wdl, callmg <:m me to
dl'cicll' questiom relating to the physical quahhcat1011s ot persons
who arc· desirous (>f sending in their petitions. ?i.Iost all the letters
carefully explained the ddects and closed wi.tl;i th.~ followmg
"ti a\ e we the nght to receiye !us pet1twn?
One ~ase
to
attention was a stiff knee which prevented kneelmg;
the
uf the index or forclinger near the k1rncklc on
ihird joint; another wlwse rivht eye was dcstroyc<L_aml.1mmy other
cascs of a similar 11aturc. ln reply to all such llHjUJrI<',,, I was
uhliged to rdcr the
or .hroth~r inquiring to the Code and
10 Dccisicn;; 217 to 224,
mdus1\·e. All these cases .appealed
;o me am\ ha\'e caused me to wonder whether we are not rather
;~clmical on the question of physical qualilications. Tn one particular case. I know personally the man inquired about and know
him to he a man of the highest character and strong, both morally
and intellectually. yet he cannot be made a :Vfason because he
happens to have had the misfortune to lose an eye.
.
\V.: teach that it is the internal and not the external qualifications that 1-ccnnmH:nd a man to be made a }fason. and yet, in the
l:ll1guagc of an eminent l\Iason,
are .apt to_ ovcrlo~k a little
liliuht in the head and we sometnncs waive a httle stam on the
nH~·al character, b~1t we never overlook a stiff knee, or the loss ?f
a thumb or a foot, or the fact that the feet may not track 111
·tli'-'nmcnt. \Ve thus deny men of excellent moral character,
hrai'n/':1nd warm hearts fn;m becoming useful and influential
members of the order." T helieve it to he wrong to deny good
men of the privilege of hccoming Masons on account of some
unfortunate physical defect, and I think t.hc Grand Master should
he iil\'csted with authority to pass on md1v1dnal cases as they are.
to him. and in the exercise of discretion, to issu? special
in snch cases as he thinks to be for the best interests
of the on!cr, or that some other pbn he adopted that will give
relief.

"'/vc

The Committee on Jurisprudence did not, however, concur in the
recomrnembtions of tl:c Crand :\laster and reported adversely upon
their acceptance, which report was adopte(\.
Upon recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Corresponrl·
cncc, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine lslands.
Past Crand :\last(·r of the' Jurisdiction of Utah, \Vatson N. Shilling.
paid tlw Grall<! Lodge a fraternal yi;-it. He was received with Crand
I lorn>rs and inviter! to tlw East.

53

Brother George E. Knepper presented his twelfth annual report on
Foreign Correspondence. lt is a concise and intelligent review of the
usual Grand Jurisdictions, in which California, 1912, finds a place.
CuR'fls F. PIKE, Grand .:\laster, Boise.
\V. R\l>iD.\tL, Grand Secn·tary. Boise.

T1rnoPIIILUS

JLLINOJS.
1913.
Jn compliance with the provisions of the Constitution and By-Laws
of the Most vVorshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of Illinois, the seventy-fourth ammal meeting, was
held in the city of Chicago, at M cdinah Temple, conm1cncing on Tuesday, the 14th day of October, A. D. 1913, A. L. 5913, at 10 o'clock a. m.,
and was opened in Ample Form by the M.". \V.". Grand Master, Delmar
D. Darrah.

Grand .:\faster Darrah, in his annual address, felicitates the Craft
upon the high degree of prosperity that exists in Illinois.
The growth in membership has been almost phenomenal, the total
membership now exceeding 122,000, showing a gain of more than 7,000
over the preceding year, with more than 800 active Lodges on the rolL
He reports having issued dispensations for the formation of eleven
new Lodges; Ire dedicakd eleven Masonic halls in person and four
deputy; he laid cornerstones of at least two :Vfasonic temples, several
hospitals, one library, t\vo high school buildings, etc.
Concerning the tendency to invade the prerogatives of subordinate
Lodges by the Grand Lodge the Grand Master has this to say:
One frequently hears complaints that there is too much interference with the affairs of Lodges
the Grand Lodge. The statement is frequently made that to
Lodge should he left the regulation of its household and that to it belongs a certain amount of
individual lil:crty. Ko truer stat<>ment was ever made, but it should
he limited with the proviso that so long as the Lodge is performing the legitimate labors of Masonry it should not be molested.
Freemasonry is a society whose procedures are peculiarly its own.
Today it suffers much from the injection into it of the practices
of other societies. ''fhc Lodge which understands Masonry and
observes its fnndamental principles docs not need to worry on
account of interference. It is the Lodge that is trying to stage
the spectacular and unusual. that is spending its funds extravagantly and for purposes that are not ".\fasonic, that is always seek~
ing an eyasion of the regulations of the fraternity that feels the
chastening rod. Brethren who desire to maintain an existence
under a charter from the Grand Lodge of JIJ.inois must be willing
to be observant of those procedures and practices which distinguish
Masonry and, failing to do so. need not be surprised at interference
with their unmasonic frivolities.

lUDl'OR'l' ON COHRIDSPOi\ Dl~NCK
54

55

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Crancl :\Lts!cr ckprccatcs the modern tendency, which he thinks
st rikcs at the f<lltmbtiun of l-'rccmasonry, to form within the circle of
memlicrship of :\lasc:nic Lodges dancing clubs, social clubs, low tweh·c
clulis. etc., ancl c111 this ,.;ulijcct has this to say:
One of tlw ternkncies of the period which strikes at the yery
f"t'tHbtit1n of Frccmasonn· is tlH: formation of organizations such
as dancing cluhc;, social cl(iiJs, low twch·e clubs, baseball clubs, and
\\·hat not, all formccl within the Lodge am! rccrl1!tmg their membership !JI· sekctin· nwthuds. Funds of the Lodge are often
din·rtecl ·toward the support of these organizations and we
not infrequently iincl them ccrntrulling the election of Lodts:e officers. c\11 of this yiolates the democracy of :\lasonry and is cont ran to the ftrndamental principle of the fraternity which recognizc~s a common equality about a common altar ancl a mutual part icipati()]t in all affairs of the Lodge. l see in all this a serious clement of clanger and a speedy return to the soyercignty of the Lodge
;is contemplakcl L,· the fathers in :\Iasonry is all that can saye us
from impending clanger.
Fraternal recognitinn \\·as c:dcndecl to the Grand Lodge of Porto
Rico ;rnd the Cram! Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
The Committee on J urispruclcncc expressed itself "11/tra -;:•ires'' upon
,.;enTal questions upnn which its opinion was not asked, lmt its expres-ions of opininn seemed to accord so thoroughly with the ideas of the
<:rand Lodge that these expressions were adoptecl as the will of the
Crancl Lodge, as follcm·s:
Yot: r Commit tee on :\la sonic Ju rispruclencc is of the following
()pini1111 UjlClll:
Is it proper to place upon the altar a copy of the N cw Testament ancl ohligate candi(btes thereon?
Your Committee on Jurisprudence answers: ~o. ·Masons arc
oliligatecl on the 1 loly Hihle. which is composecl of the Old and
>:cw Te,;tament, ancl no other hook.
Can a T,oclgc appropriate money from its treasury to maintain
a h:1schall cluli composecl of members of the Lodge?
Yllur Committee on Juri,;prudence answers: No, as it would
lie· unm;1,;onic for a Lodge to appropriate funds from its treasury
for am· such rnirposc.
Is· it prr iper fnr a :\ L1sonic L()(lge to ho lei a picnic on Sunday
;1t which a program uf yarim·s games and athletic sports is carried on?
Your Crnmnittec on Jurisprudence answers: "!\o, as it would
]1c entireh· improper, in the opinion of your committee, for a
Lodge to ·lrnld ;1 picnic on Sunday at wl1ich a program of games
and athletic ,.porh of any kine! is carriecl out.
\\'hat procedure is necessary for a brother who has changed
hi, name· to han· it altered upon the records of the Lodge?
Your Committ<'c' 011 Jurisprnclcncc is of the opinion that the
onh· thino· nccc·"arv for a brother to do mickr such circumsta,-iccs is "to furnish. the Lodge with a certified copy of the order
uf court changing his 11an1c.

Is it lll'l"missililc to hold dances 111 a :'.\fasonic Lodge room to
\\hicl! non-:\lasons arc im·itecl?

Your Committee on Jurispruckncc ans\\'crs: :\o. :\lasonic
lodge halls ca_nnot he used for dancing purposes at any time.
Can a member of a Lodge oliiect to the \'isitation of an honorary member o'f the Lodge ;;nd w;ll such objection he ,-alid?
Your Committee on Jurisprudence answers: Yes.
An eloquent and stirring address was deliwrecl by Brother Lawrence Y. Sherman, Grand Orator, which, upon moti011 duly made and
sccondecl, was ordered printed in full in the Proceedings.
Illinois is certainly a wonderful jurisdiction. J t maintains two
splendid 1\1 a sonic homes, one for orphans, the other for aged :\Iasons.
The affairs of both these institutions arc conducted in a careful,
economical, ihorough and painstaking manner and reflect great credit
upon the jurisdiction.
Past Crand l\Iastcr Owen Scott sul:mits his Report on Correspomkncc.
The report is cxcecclingly comprehensi,·e am! con:rs a review of
practically all of the c\merican and foreign jurisdictions.
California Proceedings of 1912 arc intelligently considered.
From Brother Scott\ preluclc we quote the following as embody-·
ing his Yicws upon the false ancl true as applied to legitimacy of various
Crand Lodges :
THE F.\Lst, .\Kil TIU: TRUE.

True :\lasonry ancl its c111asi imitators-sometimes callecl uni,·ersal :\lasonry-rnay he cla'5ilied in three groups. These arc:
1. Anglo-Saxon. Herc may be found the only pure and gTnuinc branch, standing squarely on all the essentials commonlv
called landmarks. This group embraces England, 2.768 Lodges-;
I re land, 460; Scotlancl. 712; Australia, with 7 Grand ancl 732 constituent Lodges; the lTnited States, with 59 Crane! ancl 15.000 c011stit1:c11ts, ancl Canada with 6 governing bodies with 752 Lodges.
This givcs a total of m·er 20,000 Lodges and a membership of a
little o\·er 2,000,COO. All these arc the clirect descendants of the
Grancl Lodge of England, formed in 1717 and built tirmlv on belief
in Goel and the BihlC as the great light.
2. The Germanic includes Germany with 8 Crane! bodies and
490 local Lodges and 5 independents at Leipzig; Denmark, 12
Lodges; Swcclcn, 37; :-\orway, 15; Hungary, 68, ancl Luxemburg,
numbers not giycn. The totals for this group arc about 630 Lodges
ancl membership approximating 82.000. Tllinois is not in fraternal
relation with the Germanics hecause of their want of adherence
to one or more of the fundamentals of Craft :\lasonn·.
3. The Latin rroup embraces France, 535 Lodges; Italy, 300;
Spain, 80; Portugal, 100; Greece, 15; Switzerland, 34, and all the
Grancl Lodges and Grand Orients of Central ancl South America.
There is a total here of about 1,500 Lodges and 60,000 members.
In the foregoing lists Holland does not appear because it has
been recognized by our Crand Lodge. It would, by language at
least, be included in the Germanic group. Holland has 95· Lodges.
Owing to fnnclarncntal ddccts in essentials the German and Latin
groups arc not regular and :ire not recognized by most of the

53

HEPOHT ON COHHESPONDENCK
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
_\nglo-;-;a:-.:«11 auth.,ritic•s. Fr;mn· ;,nd her sakllitcs are most under
c"11<km11atin11 lwcnusc of her atheistic tcndc·neic,.; ;1rnl the iin-asion of
occupied .\lasonk
It will he seen that th.; Grrmamc and
Latin groups daim hut
while the .\nglo-Sa:-.:on bodies lian:
rnon: than 2.000.00D ai!herents. 1l i:; easy, therefore, to see that the
snlistantial foundation upon which English speaking Masons stand
appeals most strongly to men in all lands.

H o:RY T. BPR?\.IP, Grand :\Iast.:cr, Alton.
I s.1_1c Ct"r·n:H, Cram\
, Camp Point.
IN DIANA.
1914.

The front pages of the Proceedings arc adorned by excellent
portraih oi Crand .\laster ..\lartin :\ . .\Iorrison, of John \V. 1lanan,
Past Cram! .\I aslc'r, and a picture of the magnilicent :Masonic Temple
at Indianapolis.
Preliminary to the formal
of the Grand Lodge at Indianapolis, hut a ftcr the assembling of the hrethren, a program of music
and addrcss<es wa;. rendered, all of a Yery pleasing character, the chief
feature of the prngram J;cing a11 address by Brother :\!ax Merritt of
Evans\ ilk, lmliana.
The closing paragraph, touching the Brotherhood of
of
Brother .\lerritt\ c:-.:cdknt address is as follows:
llrotherJ10,1d is one of the most bcantifttl words in the
langu:1ge. lt rcprcsvms the true goal toward which humanity
is marching. Slowly aml painfully and with many haltings has
humanity made- its way toward this goal across the darkened
ages. and with c\·cry advancing step, men have
nobler,
life has become fairer. and the future richer in its
This
word "hrolhcrhooll." .
which .\fasonrv is
sums up the dearest hope that has ever- inspired the
prophet. poet, sage or
and its final realization means a
,nmmation of the
that has ever soothed the
hope of lnnnanity.
word of Masonry is the
of the day. It is
by e\·cry twisted telegraphic coil
that hinds the
, hy every keel that plows the
sc·as, shortening the distance
the hearts of men, by every
plane that soars the skies,
the barriers of space, hy
n·cry rail of steel that drnws the
of the earth together in a
greater 01iencss and onr Onkr built on the rock of Brotherhood
may hid deliance to cwry otorm and link its fortunes with
c•tcrnity.
'l'hc· ]\Jost \Vorshipful Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable
Fraternity of free and _-\cccptcd Masons of the State of Indiana con,·c1u:d in ninety thin! annual meeting, in the Grand Lodge hall of the
.\[ a>enic Temple, in the
of I mlianapoli~, at 10 o'clock a. m.,
the 26th day of .\fay, A. D. 1914, ,\. L. 5914,
the
in 2\fay, ninety-seventh year of the Grand Lodge,
Cram! ..\la>!c'r John \V. l la11;111 presiding.

The Grand .\laster, in the opening

57

of his address, says:

I have an abiding confidence in the future of ::\fasonry in
Indiana and throughout the world. I believe in all sincerity
that its star is in the a>cendcncy. And in the spirit of sincere
optimism 1 believe the great good .\Iasonry will do yet in the
civilization of the world and in the uplift of mankind is beyoml
the realization of man. Masonry throughout the world is standing today, just as it has stoocl throughout the countless ages of
the past. for that trinity of principles that have ever been the
dominant attributes of our Order-the Fatherhood of God, the
Brotherhood of :'vlan,
Immortality of the Soul.
.
Oppression.
ign?rance and intolerance . are dmmctricallv
teachmgs of l\1 asonry. \Vhtle truth,
knowledge.
lm·c and harmony arc taught and
promulgated hy
.
It is not a question
Masonry was centuries ago, _hut
the question is what is ;,r asonry today. This world _is progrcssmg«
All societies and institutions must progress or dcclme. The true
Mason knows and understands that there must he a development
and an extension of the moral and social life in man. Because
Masonry antedates nearly all other societies and organizations
that of itself would not prove its usefulness.
ln Masonrv we do not measure a man by his
hut we
measure the man by himself as he really is. \V ~ do
ask. him
,who his fatlwr was, hut we ask \Yho and what ts he, what is he
doing. and what he has done in fulfilling his
or mission
here on earth. ~either can we measure :Masonry
the number
of its adherents, but rather measure it hy the quality of its membership. ·Because
have 14,416 Lodges in the United States,
,,;ith their
of 1.569,127, docs not of itself prove the
great o-ood
the Order. The question is, what is
Mason~y
? Ts the world growing better by
reason of the existence of our Order?

The Grand Master refers with great feeling to thC' untimely
demise of Senior Grand \Varden Brother Jos. A. 3\IcKee. The Grand
]\faster, in referri11g to Brother J\IcKcc, states that he was a loyal
and faithful memher who had served in various positions always with
marked ability and intelligence am! that 66,000 good and true Masons of
lndiana mourn his tmtimelv death.
The Grarnl Master sta;cs that while he has answered lrnndrcds of
questions touching Masonic. law, yet there has been nothing that he
considers wfficiently novel to dignify as a decision, and adds th:it
most questions
to him could have been answered by the
inquisitors by reference to the Masonic Manual.
Eight Lodges which r<Tciwd charters at the preceding Annual
Communication. were
constituted, either in person by the Grand
l\Iaster, or by Drputies regularly commissioned for that purpose.
Dispensations were granted to form three new Lodges and many
dispensations for special purposes were issued.

REPORT o;-.; CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Crand :\faster was especially active in the placing of cornerstones of public buildings, no less than thirteen ceremonies of this
kind !icing mentioned by the Crand Master in his report.
Eln·cn :\Iasonic halls were dedicated within the year in accordance
with the ancient custulil of the Craft, which in itself is C\·iclence that
:\lasonry in Jndiana is in a highly prosperous condition.
.\ large number of ofT1cial visitations were made by the Grand
:\faster to subordinates, making his year one of marked activity.

of the Annual Report, although the title is still held by him as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence. The actual labor,
however, of preparing the report in the volume of current proceedings
was clone by Past Grand l\Iaster Elmer F. Gay.
Brother Gay presents a splendid report, of discriminating criticism
and excellent selection for quotation, in which the usual Anwrican and
Foreign jurisdictions are reviewed, California, 1913, heing fully ancl
fraternally considered.

58

Reference is made by the Grand :\laster to the l\Iasonic Home, now
m process of construction, his reference heing as follows:
\V c ha n' enT\' assurance that within a short time this Grand
Jurisdicti"n "·ill l;e well in the front rank of jurisdictions maint;1ining such !10111c,_ Your committee on "l\Tasonic Home for
I ndi:111a" will report to you the progress that has been made
since the last annual meeting of this Grand Lodge and make such
recornmcrnlations as in the judgment of your committee are to the
hest interest of the Home, the Grand Lodge, the aged Masons,
their \\·i,,es and orphans.
The Cra1Hl :\fa.ster refers to a notable :\Iasonic occasion that he
;1ttcmlcd, that is, the laying of the corner stone on l\fay 16, by the
Crane! L':c!gc of '.\fissonri of the Administration Building of the
'.\lasonic lTomc of '.\Iissonri in the city of St. Lonis. About 10,000
:\f;1'ons, \\·c arc informed, attended the ceremony, ancl 011 the evenin~
of the same day a ha1H111ct in honor of the yisiting Grand :\Taste:~
from Tennes,ec, Io\\'a am! '.\Iissouri, \\'as tendered, at which more
than 1.500 :\Iasons \\'ere scatcll at the tables. The ceremony was 111 all
respects one of the most notable of the year in the jurisdictions of
,\merica.
The numhn of acti,·e Lodges in Indiana at this time is 2,867;
total membership, 66,192; a net increase over 1913 of 3,157.
The \'Olumc of Proceedings nndcr review is interspersed with
numerous pictures of yarim1s l\Iasonic Temples scattered throughout
lncliana. The showing is certainly a splendid one· and affords evidence
of the magnificent prosperity of Tncliana Masonry.
The request of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico for fraternal
recognition "·as npon recomme1Hlation of the committee after clue
clelihcration, dcferrecl for some future meeting of this general Grand
Lodge, until after general conditions in the Republic of l\Iexico become
s01i1ewhat more settled.
The Past Crane! l\fastcr's jewel was on bel1alf of the C-rand Lodge
prcsrntccl hy Past Crall(] '\faster Cl1as. N. l\likcls to retiring Grand
]\faster John \\'. l lanan. llrothn 1 lanan responded to the remarks of
presc11t;1ti<111 in a frlicitm·s a11d happy i11a1111cr.
Brother Daniel l\IcDonald, for many years Chairman of the
Co111mit tee on Foreign Correspondence, has, becatlse of advancing
years, surrcrnkrcd the arcluotls labor connectell with the preparation

MARTJN ,\_ :\Iorm1soK. Crane! ]\faster, Frankfort.
CALVIN \V. P~ATHER, Cram! Secretary, Jndianapolis.
IOWA.
1914.

A steel engra,·ing, beautifully executed, of the benevolent and
kindly features of ::\Iost vVorshipful Frank B. Whitaker, Grand Master,
adorns the opening page of the Proceedings.
The Seventy-first Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Iowa was held at Des l\Ioines, Iowa, June 9, 1914.
The irwocation was rendered by the Grand Chaplain, Rev. Jos.
Fort I\ ewton, following which an Address of \V elcome on behalf of
the Lodges of Des l\Ioincs, was made hy Rev. Brother A. B. Learner,
after which the Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
In opening his address, the Grand l\Iastcr says:
From the toddling steps of the little child to the faltering
ones of age, man's constant struggle is for light, for knowledge, for
power, ;mcl position, so that he may he able to use them _either for
the good of his fellows or for his own personal aggranchzemcnt.
"There is an unseen conflict in every human breast.
vVhere two opposing forces meet, hit where they seldom rest."
In everv human being there exists a dual nature, or rather
two vibrati;ns of one power; the coarser and the finer; the
earthly and heavenly; the physical and the spiritual, so that in
a great measure it remains with the incliviclual what the rcconl
of his life's work shall be. Happy, yea, thrice happy is he who.
when life's work is drawing to a close, can look hack over his
record and sec something therein that has made the world
better than he found it.
Everv individual who desires to be strong mnst choose for
himself :in ideal toward which to Qrow. Tt should he so high as
to take a life-time and more in att;tinment. To be worth while it
should alwa\'S be iust bcvoncl our reach, so that climb as rapidly
as we mav- the light will shine from aho\'C' an(! never at our
~eet. Carlyle spoke a solc11111 trnth when he said: "The carthh·
mfluence of even· inclividtl<Jl which has a commencement will
never have an c11ding." Believing this to be true, we have no
right to find life uninteresting as long as we can sec within the

_....,_____________

·--·----

----------------

60

HEPORT 0:\ COHRESPONDENCE.
sphere of 01:r own acti,·ity a wrong that is within our power to
remedy, or an e\·il that needs to he overcome. The way to the
higher ideals of life is to do the best we can and keep doing so
until the end. ,\! astinry's mission is to inspire into the hearts of its
votaries the higher ideals of life. Jts prime object is to increase
our ca1?acity for usefulness. It is sustained by many of the best
mrn ol our race. which gives hopeful promise that its labor of
10\e will not he stayed until brotherly love shall prevail in all the
earth.

The Crancl :\laster is happy to remark that throughout the year
the Grim Reaper has not i1waded the ranks of the Grand Lodge
;ind that the official family remains intact. J\lany of the brethren,
ho\\T\Tr. han· heard and answered the call of the ;\laster.
In his :·eport. the Crall(! :\laster states that all of the Lodges that
rccein·d charters at the precccling .\nnual Communication were duly
constituted.
1 le is,uecl during the year one dispensation to form a new Lodge
at Terrill, llickinson County, lowa. Corner stones to public buildings
\\'l'l'l' 11pon li,·c separate occasions placed hy the Grand Lodge.
L"ndcr tiie heading "Decisions." the Gram\ ]\faster states that while
lw had occasion during the ye;1r to decide many questions. they were
all readily answered hy reference to the code and that it was not
necessary to make anything in the nature of a formal decision.
The Crancl :\faster reports that during the year. he traveled 15,000
miles, ;111d besides visitations to subordinates of his own jurisdiction
he paid fraternal visits to the Grand Lodges of Missonri and of
Florida, ancl attended the Alexandria \Vashington Lodge No. 22 upon
the occasion of the mecti11g of the J\lcmorial Association.
lowa among .\mcrican jurisdictions is particularly noted for it:;
cncour;1gemc11t of l\fasonic research, looking to the propagation of a
hettcr ;md more comprchcnsi,-c knowleclgc of the legends, the literature
and the lore of Freemasonry.
.\ Special Co111111ittcc on Masonic research was appointed at the
last preceding session of the Cr;111d Loclge, the committee was continued with the belief, as expressed hy tlw Grand Master. that the usciulness of this committee will be increased from year to year.
The Grand J\Iaster expresses his approval (wherein we disagree) of
the conference of Grand J\fasters held within the preceding year at
1ndianapolis. As we have frequently stated these meetings arc, in
our opinion, ill-advised, ;me\ can result 111 no good, and may result
in much harm.
The distinctin: kature, we believe, of Iowa J\Iasonry i: its Masonic Library, ancl the Grand Secretary, Very \V orshipful Newton R
Pan·in. is ;1lso Crane! Librarian, and there is some doubt as to where
Brother Pan·in\ chief interest iies, whether in the Crane\ Lodge, or in
the library of the Grand Lodge. In any e\·ent, he is known to perforrn

RFJPOHT ON CORRB~SPO:\DENCJ<-.;.

61

in a most capable manner the functions of both Crand Secretary and
Grand Librarian.
As we have !1efore remarked in some of our reports, the GranJ
Lodge of Iowa di::charges its functions of charity through a most
capable Charity Committee, whose operations are co-extensive with
the boundaries of the State, ancl no worthy case of charity, properly
assignable to the Grand Lodge, seems to be overlooked, and the
system of disbursing '.\Iasonic Charity is best exemplified, in our judgment, in Iowa of all the state-; in the Union that do not pursue the
Home method.
The Report on Fraternal Corrcspomlcnce is hy Louis niock, Past
Grand Master.
Brother Block in his "foreword," referring to '.\[asonry, remarks
that, while Masonry possesses a measure of perfection in the purpose it
professes, it nevertheless is a human institution ancl must be influenced by the march of progress.
We quote from his introduction as follows:
Masonry is a human institution and despite its great achievements can no more keep from being influenced by the march of
human progress than can any other man-made institution. Even the
great Church of Rome that in one age burned poor Joan of Arc
at the stake as a heretic, was forced in coming years. hy the march
of man's onward and upward movement, to canonize her as a saint.
The progress of J\Iasonry, with all its rigid conscn·atism and
with all its hard-shell adherence to the ancient landmarks has
been slow to be sure, bnt for that very slowness its progress has
been all the more sure. For by her very care and caution, by her
steadfast devotion to a wealth of experience glcanetl from the
records of the past, she has saved poor humanity from falling
into the many pitfalls that beset man's onward road, kept him
from straying into the by-paths of inviting error that lead to sure
and certain disaster. Yea. the world is moving, and :\fasonry ls
moving with it! If she has lee\ more often than she has followed,
this has been due to her constant exaltation of higher ideals of
human life, and her cvcrgrowing loyalty to the high standards
she has raised.
And in his conclusion, or "afterword," he makes some fine observations, from part of which we quote as follows:
We believe that every great institution is entitled to be judged
by the lives, ideals, and aspirations of its leaders and master
si;iirits. For these are the men who put into words and deed the
aims and purposes of the great body of brothers who have elevated
them into positions of guidance and command. These arc they who
have been selected by the brethren to direct the great work of
establishing upon the earth those cherished principles dear to the
heart of every craftsman-selected because of their will and ability
!o work into the life of humanity the great aims, hopes, and
ideals of the Fraternity.

* * *

62

REPORT ON CORRESPO~DJ<JNCK

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

. . Is it n!-'t _the pronrnlgation of a sound working philosophy of
ltk that. taithtully followed out shall irresistibly sweep into the sea
of ohhv1011 all the s!nfcs nf warring creeds and sceL;, of contending
and part_i,·s. and shall hrii1g all mankind together at last
upon . great plattorm of a com1.11on hrotherhi:'.od? A philosophy
horn ot a patient, tireless, unrc1111tt111g search tor truth-one that
demands a reason for the faith that is in us, and
one that is
not s.o much the sla n:- oi pure reason and
logic as to
pcnmt these lo hlind it to those high intimations of the truth
that. arc even now, as they were in the days of old. vouchsafed to
mspircd soulo, by. the Gr_:cat Ard1itect of the Universe! A philyea. a rdig1011, tt yon will, so sweet, so simple, yet withal
so
that it will haunt our souls to the end of time with its
exalting ecstasy!
All O\'cr the :\lasonic world men are fast fo1ding out that it
for us to be kind to a brother's body-to care only
is not
for his
JH'rds. \Ve are coming to know that there is a
hunger.
the mind that cries out to be filled-that there is a
staryat1011. o_f t!1e spirit that needs J\lasonry's ministering hand,
and that. it 1s t11c heart and soul far more than the body that are
now famished for want of fitting food.
fo rc~pnnsc to this crying need l\Jasons everywhere arc forming
orgamza!1011s of one k111d or another devoted to :\fasonic research, aml as a rc;;nlt a great impetus has been given to the
thought-side. the study-side of l\Jasonry. This very devotion to
the study-side has canscd
social-side to thrive as never before
for l\fasons arc coming to
how good and how pleasant it i~
for brethren to. dwell together .in the unity of intellectual pursuits,
and that there is 110 comracleslup_ so stmrnlatmg and soul-satisfying
that born of the close compa111011sh1p of thmkmg men.
To sonnd the depths of a brother's mind to see his eve kindle
with the light of understanding, or glow with the inspira-tion of a
new thought, to rise with him. to the hei~hts of lof.ty aspiration, and
~o stnvc side by side with !mn to realize great ideals-surely, no
JOY more nearly complete 1s to he found anvwhcrc ! To foster
this, to help a brother to this, to partake with him of it, verily
tlus is io practice Ivlasonic charity "in its highest and noblest
se11se-that of affection and love.''
It is a great work-a work worthy of the best efforts oi each
lll!lll and :\lason.
An~! that the Great Architect will prosper it,
will kt 11 neither langmsh, nor die-that-that is our firm faith!
In Brother Block's report ;1 nTy comprehensive and intelligent
rvvie\v is made of the Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges.
California, 1913, comes in for a very generous and fraternal consideration, in which Brother Block finds little to criticise and much to
commend, twelve foll pages being devoted to the review of our j urisdiction.
CHARLES vV. vVALTON, Grand Master, Dubuque.
R. PARVIN, Grand Secretary, Cedar Rapids.

:\EWTON

63

IRELAND.

1913.

A Stated Communication of thi~ Grand Lodge was held on St.
John's Day, December 27, 1913, the Deputy Grand Master, R. '. W.".
Brother Sir Charles Cameron presiding, the Grand Master being un-

a voichlbly ahsc11t.
It appears from the report of the Deputy Grand Master that seven
new Lodges were established in the preceding year.
It appears also that a Special Communication of the Grand Lodge
was held on Monday, March 31, 1913, to install the Right Honorable, the
Earl of Dononghmore as M .". vV.". Grand Master to succeed the late
Duke of Abercorn, deceased, and in the volume of Proceedings for the
current year there is as frontispiece an excellent picture of the new
Grand ]\faster, disclosing a 111an of evident physical and mental virility.
At this Special Comnnmication a particularly large attendance was
a fcatnrc; more than 600 members, so the report states, were present,
and many desiring admission failed to secure the same hecanse of lack
of accommodations.
Upon the occasion of the installation of the newly elected Grand
Master, this
Communication being the most important held
within the year. the Deputy Grand :\Jaster (R.". Vv .". Brother Charles
A. Cameron). before calling upon the Director of Ceremonies to formally proclain1 the Grand ]\faster, made a few remarks touching that
distinguished personage, as follows:
In the first place, let me congratulate the Grand Lodge of Ireland in l:eing ;:o fortunate as to have for its chief so distinguished
a Freemason and so illustrious a countryman. There have been in
the course of a whole centnrv but three Grand Masters. It shows
that those who occnpy that ·high office attain a considerable deof longevity. Three Dnkes have occupied your position, Grand
, during the whole course
exactly one hundred years. Let
11s hope that there will he three
of Donoughmore occupying
it for the next one hnndred years. (Applause.) Brethren, we are
proud to have our Grand Master for
reasons. I could adduce
a great nmnber, but I shall content
and perhaps please you
hetter, by enumerating only a few of them. l~e is a man of good
presence, a man with a kindly and benevolent face, and is a distinguished Freemason not only in this country but in England. vV c
know that in the thirty-three steps of the
Masonic ladder,
as you go up one by one, the accommodation becomes more and
more limited, and that when yon get to the thirty-third step there
is only room for nine. He has got to the Thirty-third Degree, and
I am proud to tell you that in that select nine he stands primus
inter pares. He is illustrious in England and Ireland and known
throughout the whole Masonic world. We are also proud because
he comes from a good old Irish stock, for no matter how democratic we may feel, we always like to sec the good old Irish blood

64

HI~PORT

ON CORRI<~SPONDENCE.

65

REPORT ON CORRESPOJ:'\DENCE.
rl'prese11tcd in uur great offices. J 1!0 not know of any noble
fa111ily in this country the mcmliers of which have so numerously
occupied the very highest [Jositions in the State as the Bely-Hutchinson family. They have rnntrilmtcd valiant and intelligent warriors to our army; they have represented constituencies in both
the Trish Parliament-I mean the old Irish Parliament-and the
English Parliament; they have represented such important cities
as Cork; they ha no rcpresente1l in the Irish Parliament the somewhat kss important Borough of Taghmon. in the County of Wexford, with a population of 112 people. (Laughter.) We are also
proud because our Grand :\laster occupies the very high position
of being the chair111an of the House of Lords. Now, brethren, have
I not saicl enough to show you how grateful we ought to be to
han· so distinguished an lrishman for our Grand Master? (Applause.) I am sure 1 express not only the wishes of all who are
present, but the wishes of every good .:\Iason in Ireland, when I
wish for him a long and brilliant career not only as our Grand
l\laster, but in all those high offices of state, some of which he
already occupies, and those higher offices in the state which his
industry and his genius will entitle him to attain. (Applause.)
The :\I.·. \V. ·. Grand ]\Jaster, on rising to address the Grand Lodge,
recei\-cd an enthusiastic cwation. He said in part:
Brethren all, it is, I am sure you will all believe, with a heart
full of thankfulness that I rise to thank you for the compliment
you have paid me-the greatest compliment that is in your power
to pay any man-and for your enthusiastic reception this evening.
Brcthrrn, I little thought when I was initiated into Freemasonry
in one of the Lodges that the Grand Director of Ceremonies has
just named in England-I think it was within six clays of my
twenty-lirst birthday-that I woulcl ever address a number of Freemasons from such a position as this. And, brethren, I little
thought five or six weeks ago that I should see myself or any of
my brother Grand officers speaking from this chair, which I, and
I am sure many of you, will always associate with our clear friend
the late Duke of Abercorn. (Hear, hear!) Brethren, it is in no
feeling of ingratitude to you, and you will believe it is in no feeling
of not realizing what you have clone for me, when I say that I
wish he was in this chair still. Brethren, he was one of my earliest
Masonic friends, and I have no hesitation in saying that he was my
tirst friend in public life. J do not believe I should have started
in public life at the almost ricliculously young age at which I did if
it had not l>ecn for his constant encouragement and support and
a1h-ice and help. He will always be associated in my mind as the
happiest memory of my early life, as I am sure, brethren, he will
he long associated in your mind as the model of what a Grand
:\laster should lie. Brethren. mv friend from the South of Ireland
has referred to the fact that )·on have elected a young man as
your Grand .!\laster-young, it is true, in experience, young in
knowledge, I am afraid, but I can promise you, brethren, not young
in enthusiasm. ( !\pplause.) It is often said that enthusiasm is
at its greatest with youth, and that is true, brethren, if some of
the enthusiastic :\fasons around me are as young as they look and
not as old as they say. (Laughter.) But enthusiasm undoubtedly
grows with experience, and I hope, brethren, to show to you that,

as ] claim to be cntlmsiaslic 1:ow. I shall not b~ w:mtin~ In e1;.ih1~
siasm in carrying out the duties wluch your kmcllmess 1as P ltce
u on my s'iioulders. (Applause.) 1 can promise yo_u that s~. on~
a~ I have health and strength, and so long as ) ou m ) onr kmclh
. b ,lieve-·is T believe you do hehe\·c from your un,1111mous
n1esst. c ti ·it '1·t· is for the "Om! of Irish Freemasonry that I should
e cc 10n- 1,
·
"'
1 J
most
occupy this chair, hr_ethrcn. for so long arc my w 10 c powers
heartily at your service.

. *Brethren,
*
*
*
*
* *
*
* * *
ha\·e we not an opportnnity under the banner of
brother! . loye of doing sornethrng to soften the asperity ?f that
feclino-?) I know, of 'course. that circumstances over :vh_1cl: we
have ~o control make it difficult for us to ac~1vcl~ pr_o~M~,1te, ou_~
doctrines in many direct10ns, J;nt. brethren, the1 c ts ,th\ ,t; :'
c_1;01,
mous power in the force of example. By cxa1:1plc. _by lc<:m.u~I 1{1g
our contron·rsics-arnl there 1_1rnst he: cnntrm·et sics_ 111,t__1c. \Vnt 1 _
· . . )irit of brotherh· lm-c, m a sp1nt to soften ,tsp_e11ty of feel
::~g'.l 1~~~vc not we Free;nasons a spec_ial task that we m~g ht bc_pr?ud
to take the opportunity of perfonmng? 1 believe,. wtt 10u_t 111 ,my
way altering the ancient landmarks of the Order, \\ c can k:c~. tl:aj
task in ·t prominent corner of our mmds, arnl with t 111s gcma
t~~k add~d to the tasks that naturally suggest t.hernselvcs t~
Freemason, and which must he the canhnal pornts 111_ our_ com net
through life, with this task in my 1111ml l c_ongratuLtt_c )OU _most
warmlv ancl [ thank you hear_tily for the kmrlncss_ with .wht~h ~
have h-ecn all<)\\·ed lo take tl'.e lirst step along that ~,tth \~l~tfh ) out
good-natured choice has decided that we shoulrl trc,td to,,, et icr.

,ul

1

n;e?

Tm.: RIGHT HoK. Tlll' EARL oF DoNouG11:11ou1,, l\[.". \V.". Grand
Master, Gram! Lodge of Ireland.
H. E. FLAVF.LLF., Deputy Crane! Secretary.
KANSAS.
1914.

The l\lost vVorthv Grand Lodge of Ancient Free arnl Acceptcil
Masons of Kansas co;in·ncd in 1 \nnnal Communication in Representa··
tive Hall in the city of Topeka, Kansas. \Vednes1lay, the 18th rlay of
' D . 1914, -'·
·' L · ·5914 , '·1t 9 o'clock a. m .. Cram! l\faster
F eb ruary,' ·"-·
Elrick C. Cok presiding.
.
Number of Lodges in this jurisdiction, 406; memhcrshtp, 40,667;
r
gain, 1,791.
From the report of the Grand l\Iaslcr, we glean the facts that 'tspensations for four new Lodges were granted within the year and four
cornerstones were placed nndcr l\Tasonic auspices.
Concerning the Kansas :\Iasonic I Tome the Grand l\faster says in
part as follows :
The Kansas l\Iasunic l Lome has alwa:>s been a _source of &ri~~
to each of us, and this has grown with each. succecclmg year.
ot
has ever been a member of the Board hanng charge of the hor~ie
who has not felt the genuineness of the work and the far-reachmg

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDJ£NCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
extent of the benefits to the chil<lren who here recci\·e true home
training ancl instruction and care. \Ve have been particularlv fortunate in this Crand Jurisdiction in h~l\·ing had for thirteen y~ars the
same Supcrmtendcnt and '.\Iatron who h;-ivc made this work not
simply. a 1:1eans of existence, but the life work of each. Personallv
my pride 111 these children of the Grand Lodge of Kansas is much
greater at the close of this year than at any other time. Having had
occasion to vis It other Gran<l Jurisdictions where no home has
been prm·idecl. either for the orphans of decease'! '.\Iasons or for the
aged and inlirm who are entitled to our protection, I have found
myself expressing the greatest thankfulness to those who in the
}'.ears go~1e by fought the. battles which gave to the Grand J urisdict1on of I<..ansas tl11s magmficcnt monument to our thoughtfulness for
those who need our care.
.\t the clos~ of the official year, which was January 1, 1914, the
total membership of the home was ninety-two, consisting of fiftvtwo children and forty adults. Peace and harmoiiv dwell with;n
the walls and the numerous letters recei\·ed from those who have
go_ne forth into the world show how great has been the influence of
tl11s home upon the children who have been members of it.

' ,\ part of the conclusion of the Grand Master's address is as
follows:
The tendency of the age is progressive. and Freemasonry must
e\·er stand for the highes~ thought of the time and place. J1~ enry
walk of hfe a higher 111chv1dual standard is demanded than in the
past, and in no jurisdiction is this more e\·idcnt than in our own.
The commonwealth whicl1 banishes the saloon and the brewerv ·
that _fosters the clmrcl;., the :·arious institutions of learning; a;ici
bcneficen.ce, creates a c1t1zensl11p best adapted to an intelligent unc~crstanclmg of the fonclamental principles of l\Iasonrv and most
likely to seek membership in an Order whose corner.stone is the
uplmilding of. humanity. Mor~ and. more do men appreciate that
the homely. nrtues of truth, .mtegnty and justice taught by the
'.\faster while He walked beside the Sea of Galilee arc the sum
tn:al of hf~: and that the life and character of that Teacher made
Tl is name .1111penshable whether He be deemed human or divine.
:\la1~kmcl has placed ma1!y laws upon the statute books to suppress cnme. They deter crime, hut do not raise the standard of
hum:mity: M ankiml has sought h>• altruism to upraise humanitv.
hut 111 Yam. ~he only grip hy which man can lJC' raisecl to a livi1{g
p~·rpend.1cular is tl1c strong grip of the Lion of the tribe of Judah.
:'\ o soc1etv, sect or creed has so great an opportunitv in this re;.-:anl as Freemasonry. About her altars the devotees· of all sociel!es. sects and creeds, the follower of l\fohamct. of Confucius or the
most orthodox Jew can join hands with the believer in the divinity
of the l\_Ias!er, m_eetmg· upon the .common ln·cl of man's duty towards his Cod, Ins countrv and Ins fellowman.
f.rccmasonry raises Ill; issue and seeks no conflict with anv sect
or creed .. Throwd1 all the centuries past since the :\faster H11ilder
stood bc;sHk the trestl.e hoard, the strength of this Order has been
tlw d1gmty of its hearmg when assaulted by ignorance the freedom
?f creed of its membership and the rnrner;tone of love for our
kl_lowmen. ~o lone: as these ':ont!nuc _to be the essentials required,
tl11s Order will cont11mc to thn\·e 111 spite of anathema or prejudice.
0

67

lt is, we bclie\T, unusual for Grand Lodges in the United States
to bestow honorary rank and title either upon :\fasons of America or
those hailing from foreign lands.
In examining the 1914 Proceedings of Kansas we find that the
Grand Lodge bestowed upon Brother Robert F. Gould of England the
rank and title of Honorary Past Grand Senior VI ardcn of the Grand
Lodge of Kansas. \Ve have no personal objection to Mr. Gould. He
is certainly a distinguished Mason and is entitled to honor as such.
We, howe\'cr, arc of the opinion that American Grand Lodg;es should
not undertake to imitate the practices of Grand Lodges of British affiliation in adopting the system of conferring honorary rank and title, and
the American system in c\ncient Craft l\Iasonry of conferring title only
when ancl where it is earned is vastly better than the cheap and imitation yarictv known as honorarv rank ancl title.
for tl~c twelfth time, we- believe, the Report on Correspondence
is submitte'l bv Past Grand l\Iastcr l\fatthew '.\L Miller. It was prepared under s~m~what difficult circumstances, as Brother Miller was
compelled within the year to submit to a surgical operation, coupled
with a long conlinement in hospital. His work, nevertheless, is of a
superior order, and courteous consideration is giyen by him to
California, 1912.
CH.\RLES IT. CrL\NllLl'H, Crancl l\Iaster, Topeka.
ALBE1'T K. \V1LsON, Crand Secretary, Topeka.

KENTUCKY.

1913.

The Grand Lodge oi Kentucky, Free and Accepted :\Iasons, held
,its One Hundred and Thirteenth J\nnual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, Louisville, commencing Tuesday, October 21, 1913, and was
opened in ;\mplc form on the third degree at 10 o'clock, with Joe H.
Ewalt. Cram! l\Iaster, presiding.
Past Cran<! :\Taster 1fenry Bostwick, 86 years of age, was escorted
to the East am! place'! in the scat provided for the oldest Past Grand
Master. Past Grand Master Bostwick may claim some distinction as
the oldest Past Grand ]\faster of the Jurisdiction of Kentucky, but
William H. .!\Iitchcll. Past Grand l\Iaster of Michigan, has Brother
Bostwick beaten by ten years, the veneralile Past Grand Master of
Michigan bein'.l· now in his 96th year.
Grarnl ]\faster Ewalt reports a yc;-ir of activity ancl prosperity'. Six
new Lodges reccive'l dispens;-itions from him within the year. He
made ninety-four official visits to subordinates, which is certainly something of a record.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDl<JNCK

68

69

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

He attended the meeting of Grand l\Iastcrs in Indianapolis in
J\Iarch, 1913, of which he has this to say:
It may be supposed by some of the era ft that these conferences of Grand l\Iasters are "something new 1·nckr the sun" and
that their ultimate object is the formation of a General or Sovereign Grand Lodge of the United States. J\ly recollection is that
out of the thirty-one (31) representatives present only one advocated the formation of such a body and that after hearing exprcs·
sions from practically all the representatives present the advocate
of the formation of such a Grand Lodge moved that it is the sense
of this conference that no such bodv should be formed and the
motion was unanimously adopted. ·
'
In this connection I may also add that since our return [
li;1,·c had occasion to make some further examination in Brother
Robert l\Iorris' "History of Freemasonn"" and lind that such conferences have been held at various time's as far back as 1805, and
that at substantially every one of them a resolution similar to that
above referred to has been adopted, so that we need ha,·c no fears
along this line.
Kentucky possesses, perhaps, the oldest and certainly one of the
best conducted :\lasonic homes in the lJnitcd $talcs.
Some friction, however, appears to have been developed between
the trustees of the I-Jome and the officers of the Grand Lodge, the claim
being made by the trnstccs of the Horne that it is entirely separate and
distinct from the Grand Lodge, and that the Grand Lodge has no jurisdiction O\'Cr the Home. The Grand :\laster comes back with a statement th;1t the Grand Lodge has during the existence of the Horne contrilmtcd at least a quarter of a million dollars to its fumls, and through
assessments and contributions the Grand Lodge had added nearly thrcequarters of a million more. In other words, that the Grand Lodge has
practically contributed one million dollars to the Home, and therefore
the claim by a majority of the Beard of Trustees of the Home that the
Grand Lodge has no jurisdiction over the same is untenable.
The matter in dispute was referred to a committee. which reported
that there would lw no difficnlty in adjusting the differences existing
ktween the trustees ancl the Grand Lodge. ancl the fact that the Home,
for its ,·cry existence, is dependent upon the bounty of the Crand Lodge
would seem to bear out the position oi the Grand l\Iastcr in the
controversy.
To promote the pr~pcr promulgation of the esoteric work and to
bring about uniformity throughout the jurisdiction, provision was made
for the appointment of three Grand Lecturers, to be known officially
as custodians of the work.
Tn accordance with the nsual custom, an afternoon· session of the
Cram! Lodge was ckvotccl to a reception of the children of the Masonic
·Widows and Orphans' Home. A \'Cry interesting musical and other

program was rendered, to the extreme gratilication of the members of
the Grand Lodge.
The able Report on Foreign Correspomlcncc is, as usual. presented
by the veteran in this work. M.". W.". Vv'illiam VI/. Clarke, Past Grand
Master.
·The Proceedings of California, 1912, arc briefly considered with
approving comment.
0R11\ S. WARE, Crane! ]\[aster, Covington.
D.1v1\ JACKSOK, Crand Secretary, Louisville.

LOUISIANA.

1914.

The One Hurnlred and Thin! Annual Grand Communication of the
M .". 'vV .". Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted :\Iasons of the State of
Louisiana, convened in the city of New Orleans, at the Scottish Rite
Cathedral, on l\Ionday night. the 2d of February, 1914, at 7 :30 o'clock.
The M. ·. 'vV- ·. Grand Lodge was opened on the Third or Master's
Degree in Ample form by ]\[.". 'vV.". Grand Master Emil Sundbery,
after prayer by the VI/.·. Grand Chaplain, Rev. Dr. Harman Cope
Duncan.
After the formal opening of the Grand Lodge a distinguished visitor was presented in the person of Past Grand Master Bernard G.
Witt of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, at this time General Grand
High Priest of the General Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons of
the United States. M.". W.". Brofher 'vVitt was received with the Private Grand Honors and escorted to a scat in the East, where he made
a pleasing address, followed by a suitable response from the Grand
Master.

In opening his address, Grand l\Iastcr Sundbery says :
There is no doubt in mv mind of the prosperity of our Order in
Louisiana both in numbers"' and quality of membership. I believe
that the world grows better every day before our eyes, and that,
because this is so, we have more available Masonic material now
than heretofore. Masonry is being recognized more and more as
a world-power for good, and the best men in all communities,
elsewhere as well as in our State, arc seeking admission to its privileges. Such is my conclusion based upon information gained from
the District Deputies, the Grand Lecturers, and my own observations. Our Grand Secretary's report will show a net gain of 731
in our membership during the year, the largest in the history of our
Order in this State. While a great numerical gain is by no means
to be regarded as the highest achievement, it nevertheless indicates
beyond question a most desirable reputation.
The Grand l\Iaster reports having accepted the invitation of the
Grand Jurisdiction of Indiana to attend the Conference of Grand

70

H l~POHT O:\' CORRI<JSPOKDENCE.

.\!asters held in lmlia11:q11,]is, J\larch 17th and 18th. and 111 connection
with this meeting has this tn .say:
I11 its soci:tl a,;1wct the co11fcrcncc wa,; a grand s11ccess. and
mnch w:1s gained and karnc<I
informal conversation.
But as no delinilc action himling t:1c
jmis<lictions could
be taken, and as. en·'.y011c seemed to fear that even a suggestion
mack 1!1 "t;ch a rhrc;:t10n
be construed as favoring a General
J\fosnmc Lrarnl Longe, .
c\'en bonkring on legislation was
attl'mptc11, ::ml. the: cont~rcncc necessarily resolved itself into an
;·xchange ot \'Jews 011 d11fcrcnt matters presented for discussion.
fhc
of
eddence as necessarv to an cxaminat1011
admi,sion into a
wa,; fully
'
was also
~he qucstrnn of rccommcnding to the different Grand
a unitonn petition and a uniform <kmit, \mt no unanimous agreement
enuld he reached, and.
action was taken. A resolut1,rm was, passed endorsing the
Relief Association of the
l mted S_tates and Canada, of
our Grand
has been a
nH:ml:cr lor ;l munlwr of years.
was also a
passed
the
'i\Tcmorial
izcd for
purpose
crccting a nwmorial
Va .. to \Vashington, the' J\Taso.11, to lw used
the :'llasonic records and relics of his time.
As a social function these confcrcuccs of titled l\Iasous are a succc". hnt from the standpoint of J\fasonry
arc apparently productive
of no S\llist:rnti;il good, and arc used
certain Masons who wish to
imi1att: other fraternal organizations to foster the idea of a General
Grand Lodge and lo exploit their ideas ancl to covertly work to that end.
Very little cncouragenH'nt has been received looking to the establishment of a General Grand Lodge, there apparently having been present at this Indianapolis conference not more than one Grand Master
or Past Grand :\Taster who favored such a proposition and a resoluti_on .""1' unanimously adopted expressly disclaiming an~ such purpose.
\ct If no such purpose exists, why this persistent effort at these annual
so-called con fc rcnccs?

Louisiana is extremely liberal in its views touching the recognition
of other so-called Grand Lodges, and, npon recommendation of the
Committee on Foreign Correspon<lcllce at this time, fraternal recognitioll was accorded to the Supreme Council of Columbia. The Supreme
Council of Columbia may exemplify excellent :-Iasonic principles, but
that would hardly seem to
the
of a so-called Supreme
Council. chartered by some Srnttioh Rite body, as a so,-ereign Grand
Lotlgc of Craft Masonry.
Past Grand >.faster Lee E. Thomas delivered a masterful oration,
which. by order of the Grand Lodge, was ordered published in the Proceedings.

REPORT OX CORRESPONDENCE.

71

The Report on Correspondence is very much condensed, occupying
not more than twenty-six of the printed pages of the Proceedings.
California. 1912, is incidentally referred to.
Grand j\fastcr, Robeline,
R1cHAHD LA11rntRT, (;rand Secretary, New Orleans.

JAMES IL CALDWELL,

MAINE.

1913.
The l\fost \Vorshipful Gnnd Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the State' of J\faine met in Annual Communication
in :\fasonic Temple. at nine in the morning, Grand Master Elm.er T'.
Spofford presiding.
The Grand Master in his annral address says:
We arc remimled hv all ;ihout us that the winter and the old
year arc past and that spring with her wanner sunshine and
opening leaves has rdurnc(l. and on this beautiful ]\fay morning
we are. met in otn >:inetv-fourth Annual Communication to ope11
a new Masonic year. amf I am glad indeed to he vouc·hsafcd the
privilege of bidding you one a•1d all a cordial and fraternal
welcome.
The record of the past
is complete and must stand for
all time without c\J;[ngc,
we may read again its pages with
interest and
and draw from them lessons of wisdom and
helpfulness
may aid us in solving the problems of the
future.
Events of world-wide importance have transpired and many
of them
since we last met in this Temple.
Nations
in a common purpose and have
waged a
the canoe of humanitv and freedom.
rescuing a ciYilizcd people from generations of -oppression and
persecution, and sectiring to them a measure of religious as well
as of civil liberty.
Our sister republic of Mexico has heen rent with civil conflict, brother has takrn 11p arms against hrother; her soil is
now stained -with fraternal blood. am! her govNnmcnt has been
overthrown hv force and Yiokncc.
Clouds of agitation arnl rcstlcss1wss
som,eti1m's ho\'ered
over the business world, and
toiling
Jiaye not always
been content with 1heir
atid satisfied that their in
dustrial betterment has kept pace with the progress of the times;
and so great questions, some of them involYing government. have
arisen in this ;md other lamls, and arc now pressing for solution.
The past vear has witnessed much unrest, and yet it has hecn big
with moral and material advancement and hlcssings.
The feeling is strougn and more general throughout the
World todav than c\'cr he fore that war shouhl cease. 1t is no
long-er said that
makes right." ]t is believed that all
differences nmong
as well a~ disputes hetwccn individuals,
may find a just and peaceful settlement in courts established for
the purpose. As conflicting claims between men arc adjusted in
our courts of law, so may disputes which arise among nations be

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

73

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
MANITOBA.

1914.

The Cram! ?II aster reports m1mcrous special dispensations for
Yanoth purposes, and a special co111mu11icatio11 for the purpose of
the new hall cf Kennebec Lodge X o. 5.
lie records !he acceptance of several invitations to visit Lodges
of !he jurisdiction, which it was his especial pleasure in these instances to accept.

. In the conc}usion he. r~ports that peace and harmony prevail
thruughcn1: !he Cram! Jur1,.;d1ctll'l1 and that cordial relations exist between ).fame and all other Grand Jurisdictions.
.
The jurisdiction \'njoyed a reasouable measure of prosperity durrng. tl1e~ year. the total 1m:mbcrsbip now reaching the substantial figure
of 29,812.
a gain of something more than 500 over the preceding year.
The idea of hwin°· ·t :\fasonic Home which :\Taine has had under
consideration for ';;ev;r;;l years was definitely turned down bv the
adopti• 111 u11a11imo11sly nf the recommendation of the committe~ appn111tc'.I to lock intn the Horne proposition, the recommendation of the
rnn.1mtttec being that the proposition of having a Masonic Home in the
Jllnsd1c!i•>n of ).Jaine he indefinitely postponed.
The ~ommitlcc on
Correspomkncc, :\lost \Vorshipful
;\llm: E. Chase. Chairman, submits its report, which is a cmvlensed and
rntell,1grnt review of the usual ~i\mcrican and Foreign jurisdictions, i.11
wlnc,1 Califorma, 1912, is considered and quotations made from the
reports of ).Jost \Vurshipiul Grand l\Iaster Monroe, of committees, etc.
Eu1 F.R P. SPOFFORD, Crand l\iaster, Deer Isle.
STEPHEN RERRY, Crancl
. Portlancl.

The Th;rty-ninth Annual Communication of the l\L '. 'vV. '. Cranrl
Lodge of l\I anitoba Ancient, Free and Accepted ).fasons was opened
in the Normal School at the city of Brandon, Province of 1v1anitoba,
on WC'dnesday, June 10th, A. D. 1914. A. L. 5914, Grand :Master
Edward 1\1. \\'alker presiding.
That tht> Grand J\laster was infected with the
of the Springtime. which. because perhaps of its somewhat belated arrival in the
Province of ).lanitoha is, therefore, the more joyously welcomed, may
be judged frnm the following opening paragraphs of his annual address:
:\midst sen-kissed hills. on the banks of the Assinihoine, we
Architect of
are assembled to
our gratitmlc to the
: to supplicate
the Universe for all
mercies and bounteous
mourn. and to
Him to comfort, strengthen and sustain those
grant us the grace and the wisdom to legislate in the highest
interests of the Craft.
'vVith hearts attuned to the hopeful
joyful inspiration of
Spring, we have yearned for this
with the pleasurable
expectation of renewing old friendships.
making new ones, and
of being broadened, sweetened and stimulated by the beneficent influence of attrition.
Jn such spirit I welcome you to this Thirty-ninth Annual
Communication of the Crand Lodge, and in such spirit I commend
you to one another. May the blessing of Cod attend you.
That Brother 'VV orshipful :Vfaster vValker has a true conception
of the Brotherhood exemplili<:d in Masonry must he assumed from the
following paragraphs upon the :;nbjcct of I3rotherhood, taken from his
address:
Freemasonry teaches Brotherhood, a sentiment that has done
much toward peaceful development throughout the world and
toward the unification and uplift of the human rnce. Perhaps no
greater opportunity for practising this
of 1vf a sonic work
will be offered on the Continent of
than that presented by
the western part of the Dominion of Canada: a country on the
threshold of nationhood. whose future potentialities the most
astute has not the temerity to compass in words. Until a few
decades ago there was much misconception regarding this great
western cotmtrv. inasnwch as it was likened to the home of the red
and the bt1ffalo. That such wrong information, inoculated into
minds of millions of youths, militated against the settlement
of this part of the Dominion is reasonable lo suppose. Happily,
however, such false teaching is being antidoted by a
immigration policy. having for its obj cct the settlement
this
country by young men and young women from every civilized land;
every one, perhaps, proud of the country of his birth, her· customs,
traditions, ideals. achievements and hi,;tory, hut in grateful appreciation for Canada's womleriul heritage, in healthful climate,
fertility of soil, wealth of forest, sea and mine; and last, hut by

74

RI<JPORT ON COHHESPO.NDMNC.K

REPOH'l' ON COHRESPONDENCE.
lH) 1l1L':Uh

ka~t. l~:u1;id;1':--,

hl'nc1ice11t

ju:>tict' to ;dl). w11rkl11g :'itk hy ~i(le 111
of this country.

freedom and
dcnJopmcnt

* * *

Xn heller 11ge11n than
rnent of such bud;il,:e w"rk.
d<KI rinc nr political opinion, lhl
is fonmkd 011 the broad trinit\·
the F<1thcd1ood oi
(~od. the llrothcrhoml cf man and the Immortality oi the soul.
lt emlirace:.; men differing widely i1;i religious, political. economic
and other llpiniu1": men representing widely different spheres in
!ill'. It afford.; a lll<'<'ting place where all such diffrrcnccs an:
,;nLHirdinated, and 1\·hcrc ;ill ,tam! on a cummon kYcl alike
equal,; and l:rothcr,; 011 a plane where manhuoJ is made ti;e basi;
of lifr. and where alkgory. :,ymhol and precept direct the way
to a wider and str.mgn hrnthnhu"d and a higher evolution.
ft
adn1onishc~

a

111~u1

tu

riS\.'

SGilt:rlor tu

cntion, :,11pc-rstitii1ll and other a:-::-::.r:ciate

Brotliei-1\' Lon· Relief and
1't
the noblest
maxims and principlc·s ,,[ adion of which the
has conception,
and thus p1-csc·11t> an irkal beyond lnunan attainment.
the dark
to

,;tarn[

tu

hdorr· the world.

\Ve ohseryc that Grand :\J;bt<:r \Valkn was actin; in the discharge
of the duties of his office.
Official Yisitatirn1' were mack to 11 large number of the subordinates;
<>Ile' irnportallt special conmrn11icatio11 \\'as held fur tk· purpose of layin'~
a c"rnc1-,;t.,11e ui a Jll~lilic lmilding, am! other functions were discharged.
I l is intense carnu;tm·ss am! lrnsl in the future strength and
grandeur of ::\Iasoury l!1 :\lanit1JL•a Jinds cxprcssiun in tlw closin;;;
w"nb ui his addrc·ss:

1n c·0ndn~ion, kt
every Freemason
in J\l"uitoha
from the
dignity oi the J
as a moral
i11slitutio11 in 1b
pounding a
it
suns, from
the
l\f a:,u11ic light. radiate !hose simple, yet
suLlimc
and uplift, and rcmkr their co11si.stent exponents
potcnt influences for good.
J\lav Free•nasons ever st:mc! in a world-wide solidarity, a
hkn<kc( i11co111parahlc t1111l fur tnc mamtcnancc of c1v1l and rcligions liberty and the uplift of the human race.
The mcmLcrship of the jnri,;diction now m1111hcrs 6929, a net 111crcasc o\-er th' preceding year of 474.
Tlie~c is no report on Corrcspornkncc'.
LYNDS S. V.1n;n.\N, Crarnl J\Iastcr, ;:;dkirk.
].\,I ES .\. O\Crand Secretary, \Vinnipcg.

75

MARYLAND.

1913.
The J\Iosl \Vorshipful Grand Lodge of A. F. & A. Masons of
:\faryland commenced its 'Two Hundred and Fiftieth Semi-Annual
Communication 011 this second Tuesday of J\[ay, 1913, at 8 o'clock
p. m., Grand J\faster Charles C. Homer, Jr., presiding.
]11 accordance with the mual custom in this Grand Jurisdiction
rnrions of the Grand Officers retired to the apartment of the l\Iost
\Vorshipfnl Cram! l\faster. and with a flourish of trumpets, and we
presume swinging <rf censers. conducted the J\Iost
Grand
:\faster to his station in the East.
\Vhik it is no particcilar concern of anyone outside of :\farylancl
how they conduct their cercmonks, yet if we may personally be permitted to express an opinion. we vastly prefer the plain, simple,
;;;traight-forward method of opening Grand Lodge, such as obtains
in California. and. so far as \Ye know, in all other Grand Jurisdictions
in the l'nited States outside of :\Iaryland.
It is stated in the record of the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of
Maryland that the \Vorshipful Grand Master addressed the Grand
Lodge, but in all of the reports of Mai·yland that we have examined we
neyer yet 11a,·e found recorded what would ordinarily be considered
a Grand :\laster's address or report.
Vv ,, are informed that the Grand :;>.faster attended the conference
of Grand l\fast.ers held at Indianapolis. although as far
we have been
able to disco\·cr, the Grand Master himself made no statement upon
the subject.
An eloquent Memorial Address on the death of the late Right
Worshipfnl Bro. Edward T. Schultz, Past Senior Grand \Varden and
Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, was made by Bro.
Rev. Henry Branch.
Bro. Sclrnltz was certainly the beloved of Maryland Masonry, and
we quote tlie clm;ing lines of Brother Branch's tribute to his memory:

A sad messw;re has been sent from the citv of Baltimore, announcing the st1d~len death, on lVIarch 11, 1913: of the patriarch of
the Fratern;d
of the Grand Chapters of Royal Arch
Masons, :'\T .'. E.'.
Edward T. Schnitz, whose last report for the Grand
of Maryland was his thirty-fifth.
He was in his
vear and had been blind for nine or
ten years. For
· he has stated that his work would
soo1; he finished on
in the "conclusion" of his report for
1912 he said:
"Tf this be my final conclusion, may it also he my benediction
to my brethren and Companions of the Corps. my good friends
in and out of the fraternity, and to all good Masons wheresoever
dispersed."

ltEPORT ON COHHJ<JSPONDENCK
It pro1Td lo be his last, and the eyes so long sightless on earth
n1J\\' behold "the King in his beauty."
[ can think of nothing more appropriate with which to close
this trilmtc than the following poem hy an unknown author:
" ..\ pilgrim once, so runs an ancient tale,
Old, worn and spent, crept down a shadowed vale.
On either hand rose mountains bleak ancl high;
Chill was the heavy air, and dark the sky;
The path \\·as ruggell am! his feet were bare;
11 is faded check was seamed with pain and care;
1-1 is heavy eyes upon the ground were cast,
.\ml nery step seemed feebler than the last.
The \·alley ended where a naked rock
Rose sheer from earth to Heaven, as if to mock
The pilgrim who had crept that toilsome way.
llut while his dimmed and weary eyes assay
To lind an outlet in the mountain side,
..\ ponderous, sculptured, brazen door he spied,
:\ncl tottering towards it. with fast-failing breath,
.\bovc the portal read: 'The Gate uf Death.'"
"He couhl not slay his feet that led thereto.
It yielded lo his touch, and passing through,
1-f e came into a world all bright and fair;
Hlue were the skies, and balmy was the air.
.\ml lo 1 the blood of youth flowed through his veins,
. \nd he was clad in robes that had no stains
Of bis long pilgrimage. Amazed, he turned,
. \nd lo! a golden door behind him burned
In that fair- sunlight, and his wandering eyes,
Now lustrous and clear as those blue skies,
Free([ from the mists of age am! care and strife,
Over the portal read: 'The Gate of Life.'"
The l\Iost \Vorshipful Grand Lodge of A. F. & A. Masons of
:\Iarylaml commenced its One 11 undrcd and Twenty-seventh Annual
Communication on this thircl Tuesday of X ovember, 1913, at 8 o'clock
p. m .. Right \\' orshipful Deputy Gram! :\faster presiding.
Upon recommendation of the Committee on Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extcndcll to the Gran<l Lodge of the Philippine
Islands and the Grand Lodge of Porto Rico.
The committee also recommended that inasmuch as the Grand
Orient of Spain ha([ invade([ the jurisdiction and had chartered Lodges
in se\·eral states of the United States, all such Lodges should be
declared clandestine, and all persons affiliated should be considered
clandestine :\Iasons.
'For the twrnty-ninth year in succession, J\Iost \Vorshipful Thomas J.
Shryock was installed as Cram! ]\faster, and we believe he now holds
the world's rccnnl, so far as length of service as Cram! Master is concerned.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

17

The late King Edward of Englancl, we helieve, during his years as
Prince of Wales, was Crane! l\Iaster of the Grand Lodge of Englaml
for twenty-seven consecutive years; but Brother Shryock has now
gone beyond that length of service.
The report on Foreign Corrcspomlcnce is by Right vVorshipful
Brother Henry Branch, who succcecled to the position held for twcntysix years by Past Senior Grand vVarden Brother Edward T. Schultz.
Brother Branch is the worthy Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge
and has been associatccl on the Correspondence Committee with
Brother Schultz, deccasecl, for a number of years, and we doubt not
will make a worthy successor of that distinguishecl l\Iason.
In the present review, California, 1912, is fraternally considered
with complimentary allusion.
Brother Branch in his introduction intimates that the notes in his
report are "scissored rather than penned, as becomes the neophyte."
Nevertheless, Brother Branch gives us a gooclly measure of original
comment.
THOMAS J. SHRYon:. Grand l\Taster, Baltimore.
GEORGE CooK, Grand Secretary, Baltimore.

MASSACHUSETTS.

1913 .

A finely executed :-;tee! engraving of the strong and Yirile countenance of Most \Vorshipful Brother Everett C. Benton adorns the
opening page of the Proceedings.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts
was held at Christobal in the Canal Zone, on January 18, 1913, for the
purpose of constituting the Sojourners Lodge.
The :\lost Vv' orshipful Crane[ :\Taster En'rett C. Benton presided.
and upon roll call, it \\'as discon·rcd that brethren \\'ere present from
forty st;1tes of the Unite([ States, from two of its dcpcnclcncics an•.!
from four foreign countries.
That, we bciicve, is the record so far as reprcscntatiYes from
numerous jurisdictions is concerned.
A Special Communication ,,·as held at ~\neon, January 19, 1913.
for the purpose of paying a fraternal Yisit to Canal Zone Lodge, U. D.
Most vVorshipful Brother Benton presided and was assisted by other
officers of the Grand Lodge.
The visit of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts to the Canal Zone
was marked by warm hospitality and greetings were extended by
Masons from all over the world.
The constitutional communications of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts arc held quarterly in March, June, September and December.

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The
Communicalion of December i,; also counted <is the
c\nnual Cnm111u11icatio11. at which matters of ln1sincss <ire transacted,
reports rendered. ck .. and there is one s;i-c;illed Stated Comnmnicatio:1
held on or about December 27th. at which the feast of St. John. the
E1·a11gclist. is celebrated, and at which time the newly elected Grand
Officers arc installed.

During the absence of the Deputy Grand Master the cares
of administration of the Grand Lodge devolved upon the Senior
Grand Warden, and thereafter upon the Deputy. You, yourselves,
brethren, have been the witnesses of the ability and faithfulness
with which those duties were discharged, and for the assistance of
these brethren who made my absence from the Commonwealth
possible. I return my heartfelt thanks.

At the Quarkrly Com11111nica1io11 lwltl in the
Boston on Jnne
11, 1913. the .\lost Worshipful Grand i\Iaster Everett C. Benton presided, and addressed the Crand Lodge as follows:

At the June Quarterly Communication, Most ·worshipful Charles
T. Gallagher, chairman of the committee, on the action of California
in the case of Gifford H. G. McGrew, made an exhaustive report,
which was accepted by the Grand Lodge, and the recommendations of
the report unanimously adopted.
It is impossible to quote this report here, but California brethren
who wish a fuller knowledge concerning this unusual case, arc rceommencled to read that portion of onr "Introduction" to this annual
report, touching this case.

Brethren. 1 am glad to J;e able to welcome YOll
this
Quarterly Commtmication of the Crawl Lo~lge. .'\ t the . .
of
1
St.
in December last. I stated my 111tcnt10n to v1s1t t11e
Zone. there to constitntc Sojo11rners Lodge at Christohal
am! to pay a fraternal visit to Canal Zone on the Pacific. side of
t!1c I sthrnus. and to continne mv iourncy to the Contment of
South America. where we ha\·e three Lodges in Chile. and tint,
in consequence of this trip. T rlid not expect to be present. at the
Quartcrh Communication in :\larch. J\Iy plans were earned out
to the fottcr. Leaving 't\ cw York at 110011 on the eighth of
in company with the Deputy Grand .\Taster .a_nd the
Gran cl Secreta n· and members of our famtbcs, we
a week latZ·r,
were enthusiastically received
of the Craft.
the days following until the
the month we were entertained royally. saw the
accomplished
th<: Tsthmus under the most
..r·md at all
of interest
.
On the eighteenth of Jannary we const1tutccl SoJ_onrners
Lodge with nne hundrell ni1wtv members: on the followmg day
visited Canal Zone
U. D., and were guests at a banquet
nf f\Iasonic brethren
ladies at the Hotd Tivoli in :\neon.
adjacent to the city of Panama. and on the twenty-first, \1·hHe '.he
Deputy (~rand ]\faster and the Crand Secretary wcre._lwgmnm~
their return h01newarr1. I sailed from Balboa, t!ic Pac1l1c port ot
the Canal. for Valparaiso.
.
.
This is not to· he an itiner;irv of the imirncv; hut mv family
and mvself were taken in charge c\·en before onr
at
Valpari1i:.o, and the !\lasonic l'xperienccs of the snccccding
will alwavs remain in my memory. with the added sense of
l'ratitication. that 1. as vour Grand 1\faster. was permitted to h·'
the tirst head of the C1:aft in this jurisdiction to Yisit our loyal
Lodges in
of Chile. in which we have heen established
sixtv vcaro.
on the other hand, were good enough to show
atHi' t;J express
sati:,faction at my visit, and the harmony
\'Xi'1ti11g among the Chilean l\fosons of different Grand Lodii·c
affiliaticns wa~ folly exemplified by the delightful gatherings held
in mv honor under thc·ir
:\s
crossed the J\rnk,;
on the wa1· home, tlw
character
the jo~1n1ey <·ndcd.
and thi,i
not thic time or the place to recount the incidents of
travel. except 1o say that it was with a sense of devout thankfulness for escaping peril by land and
that we congratulated
nnrsC'h·es upon our arril'al at the
of our own conntry
on the thirtieth
March.

is

vV c will simply quote a paragraph from the committee's report, as
follows.
The apparent absence of effort in California to learn of or
consider the feelings and position oi onr Grand Lodge either bv
Duran.t Lodge or the Grand Loclge of California, with all th~
~tte1;dmg ci~curnstances .developed bv the correspondence, cnlminatmg m the final sugg·est1011 of the present Grand Master of California, an active member of the Supreme Council for the Southern
Jurisdiction, .who will pass on ]\kGrew's canclidacv in that l;o<lv
that J\IcGre,,. he allowed to remain an expelled Mason from Massa~
chuset.ts and contim·e in good ~tanding from California, lead your
conm11ttC'e to feel that the suhJect has not heen treated with the
consideration due from one Grand Lodge to another, and in view of
all the facts. while we do not think it advisable at present to
rccommeml the suspension of correspondence and of Masonic
relations with the Crane! Lodge of California, we do affirm the
position of our Grand Lodge, which has itself twice reaffirmed its
dccrcc of expulsion of McGrew. a position which has twice been
re-stated to the Grand Lodge of California by our official head:
and now publish and declare again that Gifford H. G. McGrew
continues to stand expelled from the rights and privileges of
J\Tasonry by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, and we recommend
that official notice of our position he corntmmic<ited to everv Grand
Lodge, Supreme Council. and other Grand Bodies of ·J\Tasons
with which our Grand Lodge has official relations, to be accompanied by a printed copy of this report and the action of our
Grand Lodge thereon.
The writer of this Correspondence I<eport was Grand Master i:1
the year 1hat McGrew got hack into regular Masonry in California.
The Grand ,'\I aster was not consulted hy any of the actors who
espoused the i\IcGrew canse and he knew nothing about the historv of
the case until ,'\lassachusctts inadvertently bccam(· aware of J\fcCr~w's
re-entrance into Masonry and called California's attention to the fact.
and the writer of this report has never heen able to find in his own

so

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

mind a s;1tishctory explanation as to \\·hy he was not consulted, as
he was living in San Francisco at the time and might easily have been
called into confrrcme hy those \vho were seeking to put l\IcGrew back
into lllasonry. and the entire proceeding whereby l\kGrew became
rehahilitatcd into :\lasrniic standing was clone without one word of
consultation with the Cr;111d :\laster who was in office at that time.
The \niter of this report is pri,·ileged to express himself simply in a
personal way ancl docs no! in :1ny sense speak for the Grand Lodge of
California. or anyo11e connc'Cted therewith, aside from himself, but he
is of the opinion. ;11111 always has been of the opinion, since he obtainccl i11iormatic11 concerning the case, either, that some of the
brethren crmnedc·1l ,,·ith the· Locige that accepted :\fcGrew into memhcrship were incxcusaLly dellcient in knowledge of parliamentary and
:\fasonic ]a,,., or i1itc11tionaily connin·cl at llfcCrew gaining membership illegally.
lt is difllc1ilt to s;1y just ,,·hat the Crarnl Lodge of California ought
to do in the premises. hut. in our opinion, :\fassachusetts is justly indignant ;1t what has been done, and in our opinion, California has
been as much affronted as has 2\fassachusetts in having imposed upon
its membership one whose status is that of an expelled l\fason. The
incident is an unfortunate one, so far as both jurisdictions arc concernccl. ln1t it ought not to he permitted to disturb the nry friendly
and cordial relations which hayc always existed between l\Iassachusctts
and California, ancl possibly some \vay Gm be discovered to solve
in an amical:le aml a mutually satisfactory manner, the unpleasant
aml disagrcehk situation.
l n the correspondence, it is slated tl1at the Jurisprudence Committee of the California Grand Lodge expressed an opinion that the
ktter which :\IcGrew heh\ from the Grand Jurisdiction of Massachusetts
constitutes in effect a demit.
.\s Crand :\faster of California at the time this opinion is alleged
to ha\·c been rendered, T am certain that the Jurisprudence Committee
of this State, nc\·er rendered ;111y such opinion. The Chairman of the
Ju risprll< knee Comrnittce was Brother Past Grand Master Edmund
C. . \ tkinson, 110\\' deccasul, who resiclccl in the> city of Sacramento,
a lrnnclred miles from San Francisco or J3erkelcy, and the other
rncrnbers of the Jurisprmkncc Committee resided in different portions
of the State. one in the extreme northern part, another at Los Angeles.
and, as a matter of fact. it is altogether probable that only one member of the Jnrisprudence Committee and he not the Chairman, was
consulted, and fnrthcrmorc it is probable that he clicl not presume to
speak for the Jurisprudence Committee at all, but only gave an informal, or what might he calk1l a "curbstone" opinion.
Hacl Past Crand :\Iaster Atkinson, Chairman of the Jurisprudence
Commit tee, been consnlted, two things are practically certain; first,

REPORT ON CORHIDSPOi\ DI~NCK

81

h~ would have called the Craml ]\Jaster into confrrcnce, and secondly,

l11s comprehensiye knowledge of .:\fasonic law and parliamentary
practice, .which was a question involved in this case, would have prevented l11s rcndermg any opinion which coulcl have been construed in
support of the proposition that the letter of 1904 from the Grand
Lodge of l\Iassaclrnsctts to l\IcGrew could, by any strained view, be
construed into a dimit, or into anything that could be accepted in
lieu of a climit.
Personally.
ha,·e no freling whatever of animosity toward i\Ir.
l\'!cGrew. In fact I never met the gentleman. I know he is spoken of
111ghly h~· those who know him well; yet, I believe the position of
Massachusetts is a sound one, that he ought to be put back where we
found him in 1907, and kt him petition J\lassachusetts for restoration
and if he is restored hy that jurisdiction to the rights and privileges ,
Masonry as a l\Iason at large, then let him petition Durant Lodge,
or some other Lodge in California, if he desires to do so, and traverse
his Masonic course in this State again.
_The Grand. l\Iaster announced that since the opcning of the year
addit10nal and mtnesting information concerning John Paul Jones had
come to the attention of the world, and he called upon Most Worshipful
Brother Gallagher to speak on the subject.
Brother Gallagher thereupon made a scholarly and intcrcstiff>
address concerning this great American naval officer and Mason.
s
At the Quarterly Communication held in Septemher, the Grand
Lodge of l\Iassaclmsetts was favored with a visit from Brother Owen
H. Williams, Grand Master of South Dakota.
At the Quarterly Communication held in December the Grand
_Master submitted his annual report, a business-like doc~ment showmg the activitie.s of the Grand Lodge. Other reports were at the,
same time submitted and a general survey afforded of the magnificent
growth and prosperity of the Crand Jurisdiction of Massachusetts .

f

The Grand Master had the following to say touching the Masonic
Home:
Is . cnlargii.1g its field of usefulness, there being at present
forty-six; adm1Uecl residents. The report of the board must
necessarily co_os1st brgely of a financial statement, which will
sho:-v t~nt .w~1l.e the gross expenses arc no less, the expense per
c~pita Is d11111111shcd and the comfort of the residents better provided for than eyer before. The returns from the farm and
garden 1r:chcate successful mana~eme11t and reflect credit upon
the Supenntendcnt., who has been m charge under the direction of
the Relief Comm1ss101.1er. The expense of supervision com~ares m?rc favorably with that of like institutions similarly located
<1.nd car.mg for a correspondmg. number, and I bespeak your con.
tamed mte.rcst ancl assistance 111 !1ehalf of the noble work clone
upon the 111ll at Charlton.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Rl:JPORT ON COimBSPO:.:Dl<JNCK

l k aJ, 0 says thi, under the heading of Foreign Relations:

I It: vdced the icdin~ of s;tdncs,; \vhich restL'd h~;l\·ily npon the
Grand Body at this time prrnluced by the
calling home of
thc Most \Vnrshipfnl J!rancis D. Clarke, \\'ho
preceding :'1.nmml
Comrmmication hat! hem exalted to the position of :\lost 'vVorshipful
Grand l\lastc:r, hut \\'ho wa,; vouchsafrd only a brief three month-<'
service in that c.1pacity.

I wish to sa v a word in reg a rd to foreign relations, using
the phr;ise in a ·broad<:r sense than in my address. a year ago.
The Crand Lodge of l\fassach11sclts fonnerlv earned upon the
title
of its pt:bli,;hul proceedings the statcn~cnt that it was
with the l\!ost ,\ncirnt and 1 lonorahle (,rand Lodges 111
and c\mcrica acconling to the old constitutions. While
wa,; trnc then and is todav. and our union with English·
,peaking Crarnl Bodies is full. and complete, something more
,eerns to he needed in order that our Freemasonrv may have ~h.e
unh-c1·,;alitv of \Yhich we hoast, and onr own members who ns1t
foreign lai1ds and wish to enjoy the ach·antages of fraternity or
are in need of assistance. onght to know whether the Free·
masonrv thev 1i11d is genuine. hast'tl upon belief in God and love
to man'. or ~vhethcr it has simply a political
or is conducted for rnel"Celian· ends. The oldest Grand
on the
\\'C:itcrn continent shn~!lcl be among the foremost in examining and
deciding the question of recognition of genuine l\lasonry wherever
ch·ilizcd man rind,; a home, and 1 recommend this subject as one
for earnest consideration and intelligent action, especially important now hecau,;c our business and our social. relations are
\,eino widelv extended and our own southern contment has been
literTtlly hrn.ught to our doors.
Fraternal recognition was at this Quarterly Communication externkd tu the Crarnl Lodge of the Philippine Islands .
.\t the .-\rnmal Fl'ast of St. John. held on December 30th, the
ncwh· electctl (~ram! Officers were installed. The occasion was hrntorcd
hy a .Yi:-it from the 1\1
\Vorshipfol Elmer B. Spafford. Grand l\la:;tcr
nf :\laine. The Crnrnl Feast, as usual, was distinguished hy a flow
of wit and cl<qm·nce clw ractcristic of these occasioi1s, the addresses,
many of them. being printed in full in the Prceeedings.
:\I tL\IN ).I. JoHNSON. Crand :\laster, Boston.
TllDC.l.\S \V. D.\1·1s, (~rand Secretary, Boston.
MICHIGAN.
1914.

The Crand Officers. Past Cran<! Officers and Re'prcsentativcs of
the constituent Lodges of Free and Accepted l\lasom of the State
of 1\1 ichigan assembled in the ;n:ditorinm cf the :\iasonie Temple, in
the cit' of flint, at high twelve, on Tuesday, the twenty-sixth day of
:\lay, :\. D. 1914, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and RvLaws, for the purpose of holding the Seventieth Anmnl
Con11nn1icati;in of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted :VT asons of
the State' of :\lichigan. R. W. Dep. C. M. and Acting l\I." · 'vV .' ·
Crand :\laster \Villiam l\L Perrett presiding·..
Prior to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge an Address of
\Velconw was extended on he half of the city of Flint by J. R. McDonald, l\ Iayor.

••mi11o.....____________..

Of :\lost Worshipful Crand l\lastcr Clarke, Brother McDonald
paid this t rihu tc :
Our hearts arc heavy at the opening of this gathering. for
it had hem our hope that our beloved
Most 'vVorshipful
Grand ).laster Franci-; D. Clarke. might
over your delihvr;itinns at this meeting, in his home city, and in this bcautifd
Temple, which was erected largely by his efforts. Rut Divine
Prm·idcncc willed that he should he called to his reward, ;me!
1 will leave the eulogies to
hands, assuring vou, however,
that WC cherished him as a
lovctl him
a Christian
gclltlcman, and c»;!ecmed him as a
brother.

as

To the I\ddrcss of \Vekomc, a fitting reply was made by the
ilfost \Vorshipful Dcpnty Acting Crand ;\faster 'vVilliam j\J. Perrett.
After the A.ddrc:;s of \V clcomc and the response thereto, the Grand
Lodge took a i·cccss until afternoon, and upon reassembling the
"Roll of Honor" was called, being the list of the Past Grand _:I.fosters
who had been translated from this "impcrfl'ct to that all perfect,
glorious anti celestial Codgc Above."
Tb rec additio·ns to tbis Rull
Honor \\·ere made since the last
Annual Comnn:nication; viz. James Bradky, who was Grand :\Jaster
in 1897, died February 6, 1914; Charles E. Sweet, Grand :\Taster 1907,
died July 11. 1913, and Crand !\laster Francis D. Clarke, chosen only
one year ago, died September 7, 1913.
At this juncture there was a reception of a distinguished visitor
in the person of the i\.Iost \Vorshipful Grand ?\laster of the Grand
Lodge of Vermont, Brother Eugene S. \V cs ton. The :\Inst ·worshipful
Grand :\laster then presented the Dean of Past Grand :\fosters of
Michigan, Past Cram! ]\faster William T. l\htchell, 97 years of age,
who had journeyed from Port 11 uron to Flint to attend this Annual
Commtmica ti on.
Past Cram! ]\Jaster :\Iitchcll scn·cd the Grand Lodge as Grand
Master in 1865, and when one considers tba t this was the year in
which Abraham Lincoln was assassinated, one realizes that Past Grand
l\faster Mitchell belongs to a generation that has well nigh passed
away.
Past Grand :\laster l\litchell i:<, we presume, the oldest living
Past Grarnl l\Iastc1· of J\lasons in the world.
The Most \Vorshipfol Brother 'vVilliam l\L Perrett, acting Grand
Master, read his annual address, one of the finest and most eloquent

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

HEPOR'J' ON CORRl!:SPONmJNCK

l lc also says this under the heading of Foreign Relations:
l wish to
a won! in regard to foreign relations, using
the phrase in a
,;emc than in my address a year ago.
The Crand
of i\las;.;aclmsctts formerly carried upon the
titk page
published proc<:cclings the statement that it was
in union ,dth the l\'lost ;\ncicnt and Honorahlc Grand Lodges in
Europe and -\merica according to the old constitutions. \Vhile
this was true then and is today. and our union
Englishspcaking Crand Bodies i,; full and cornpkte,
scuns to lJe neeckd in order that our Frccmasonr,, may
the
unin:rsalitY of which we boast. and our own members who visit
foreign lat1ds arnl wish to enjoy the advantages of fraternity or
an· i11 need oi assistance. ought to know whether the Free
masonry they lind is genuine. 1i;1s<·d upon belief in Goel ;m(\ love
to man. nr whether it has simply a political meaning or is conducted for nwrccnary ends. The oldest Grand Lodge on the
western c<1nti11ent "houhl he among the foremost in examining and
deciding the question of n•cognition of genuine Masonry wherever
civiliz('d man rinds a
and I recommend this subject as one
for earnest
and intelligent action, especially im·
now hceausc our business and our social relations arc
widch· extended and onr own southern continent has been
lin;ught to our doors.
Fraternal recognition was at this Quarterly Communication cxtrnclcd to the 1;raml Loclgc of the Philippine Islands.
.\t the ;\nmwl Feast of St. John. held on December 30th, the
newly elected 1;ra11d Officers were installed. The occasion was honored
hy a visit irom the .\lost Worshipiul Elmer B. Spafford. Grnrnl :\laster
of .\!aim.:. The Grand Feast, as usual, was distinguished hy a How
of wit and e!O(!lll'ncc c'.1aractcristic of these occasidns. the "ddres::cs,
many of them.
printed in full in the Prccecdings.
::.111.\·1N _\l. JoHNso;-;.

Cram! .\laster. Boston.

T1urn .1s \\'. D.wis. (~rand Secretary. Boston.

He vuiccd the kcliLtg of sadness \Yhid1 n·sted
the
Grand Body at this time produced h, the untimely c'tlli!l' i;rmn
.
the .\lost \Vorohipfnl Frnnci,; ll Cl· 1:. ·l ,
,,
:°' rnmc ot
. .
· ·· · ,ir,c. \\HJ ct! tic
1 precedmg \nnll'l
1
Com111umcat10n had bee 11 cxaltdl t ti . -..
G . d 'l . .
,
o H. po~tt1on of 2\[ost \\ orsh1pfu]
r,111
'' aste1, hut whD was ,·ouc'i"'Lfcd onlv
1 . • l
service in that capacity.
,
· ,'
·· - a Jnel t ircc months'
<

1914.
The Ct-;Lrnl Officers. Past Grand Officers and Representatives of
the constituent Lodges of Free :rnd Acceptc:d l\lasons of the State
of .\lichigan assembled in the auclitorit1m of the .\Tasonic Temple, in
the city of Flint, at high twelve, on Ttwsday. the twcnty-sb:th day of
:\fay, A'" D. 1914, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and By-Laws, for the purpose of holding the Seventieth Anmnl
Cmmmmic.:alion of the Grand Lodge of Free an<! Accepted l\Iasons of
the State of l\Iichigan. R. W. Dep. G. M. and Acting NI.'. W.'.
Grand :\Taster \Villiam M. Perrett presiding.·
Prior to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge an Address of
\Velconw wa:: cxtcmkd on hchalf of the city of Flint by J. R. McDonald. .\ [ ayor.

'

•

,

•

'

Of .i\fost \Vorshipfol Cram! :\laster Clark<•.
paid this tribute:
Brother :\Tc Donald
Our hearts are
l
it, had he~·n our hope
at tic opening of thi, gathering. for
C
l '!
•
our bclo,·ed brothe.r, :\lost \Vorshipfttl
.rant .. ·' .aste.r
r; ranci.s D. Clarke. m1,t.'!1t
I
t . nt J
t
'" . prcsH e over yonr delib, H lb "
tms rncct111g, in his home city.
in this b"'Jt1t1"ft'.I
Tem1;k. winch was t·n·ctcc!
bv his
'·
Pro:·Hlcnce wilkd that he
- '" 11 :
Bnt Divine
.
l will leave the eulogies to !Jette. 1.
u 1.. to hts reward, and
that we cherished him ·1s , f _.1, lldll(l '·. ,1lssn;mg yon, howe,·cr.
'
I
' , d l JUH • O\ C( hmi 'LS ·t Cl . (
gent cman. and esteemed him as a Masonic brothc1-'., '
, Jns tan

l,1

To the ;\ddre:;s 0£ \N ·I
, .
l\Iost \V . .
c :omt, ,i
reply was made bv the
..
orshtpful Deputy ,\ctmg Grand Master \Nilliam }\J P
-'
After the \ddre , . £ \V l
• · errctt.
.
. .
s, o
c come anti the response thereto the Cra 11 d
L 0 <l gc tor,k a rcccs.s until a ft ·
. I
'
' '
"Roll of 11
·"
11
crnoon. dlH upon reassembling the
01101
was ca ed
th, r.
· l .,
who had hecn
., ,l·
', e tst or t Jc last Grund l\fasters
.
11,ms .1tcd lrom this '"imperfect to tlnt -di
glonous and celestial L()(bc Above"
, '
pcrfrct,

•\nn~:thlreCc

thi~

additions . to
Roll o.f Hon or were made since the last
'
ommt:mcatton · nz J·tm . B' II
. 1897
.
.
'
,, , cs ra( cy, who was Gr-ind M "st',
111
, died l·chr1· . 6 1914· Cl•
,
"·er
di d J I .
. l ,Lr) ••
' . Mrlcs E. Sweet, Grand Master 1907
c
u}
11
..
1913.
ant!
(,r;1nd
.\laster
Fnncis
J)
c··1k
l
.
.
'
one ·
·
·
,tr e, c 1osc11
} ear ago, (1ied September 7 1913
·
.
At this j uncturc there was 'a rcc•:pl1.(111
llf
~
a distinguished \ isit
m t lle person of the f,J ost \V ors t1ipf 1 C
l l\I
' .· or
Lo<lo·e f y,
. .
ll
.ram ; aster of the Grand
". o
crmont, Brother hugcne S. \V cs ton. The Most \V . I . •
G~aml .\laster then presented the Dnn of P-1 5't G ~- tl. l\f Ot s upiul
l\f1chig··
p t ,,
I ,
'
'
i ,m
asters of
as ,.ram Aa.stcr William T Mite! !I 97 . , ,
.
who had
from Port H
·. ".
ic ,
) car, of age,
Cornmunication,
uron to Flmt to attend this Annual
"

4

MICHIGAN.

•

.

·'

dll.

Past Grand .:\faster Mitchell served the Gnnd I od . .
('
I
1 1
'
" gc as ,rarn
1\faster in 186'
which Ahraha:i~· L::::~ol~:· :~1:s
considers that this was the )Car in
Master l\f't
·I
'II
l·
,I
..
'.
. one realm:?s that Past Grand
1 c H
.t ongs to a "'
o-enerat1on tl1.·Lt !1·,is· we 11 mg
· 11 passed
away,

Olli.'.

P . P;;st Grand l\lastcr .\fitchcll is, we presume, the oldest living
ast (,rand ]\faster of Masons in the world.
.

The :\lost Worshipful Brother William ,\f.
acting Grand
JI.faster, read J1is ammal address, one of the finest and most eloquent

IU<JPOHT O~ CORRESPONlJENCEJ.

REPORT ON CORHESPOXDENCE.

,,f the yc;tr. I 11 the· n1H·11i11g p;, ragraphs of lhis magnilicent <lucument,
he· rckrs to duty
hdng the highest pathway which one's feet may
tread, and concerning which he says:
This
of dut\· runs not always over lcn·l ground,
nor is it
\\:ith pleasant
and attractiv.e
tl(iwers. Xow over hills and down into the
beneath it
,1 rdch:s, u1c111nhcrcd ofttimes 'vi th stones that hurt our feet. and
perchance. in mollll'llt> of unwatchfulness, cause ns to stumble, if
not tu fall.
OthL·r pat11' there are in life which. seem more alluring at
times and mon· easily followccl. There is the P'.Lth that. le~ds to
,,·ealth trodden
imn1mcrahle feet, in quest ot what is, tn the
mind ~if m;rnv.
grcatc:>t thing in the worhl. The path to
fame 1i11ds 111:u1v f,11lowillg iast after an
place 111. the
:1ear;s am! affections of tlwir fellowmen.
to . unrcalnced
:nnhitiu1s. winds the path that many \'ainly follow, hopmg agamst
hope,
unhappy lifr.
like the sands
,if the
;;t:1r;: that rnll in
through
,ilent realms
are those who
run
pal h that leads to
of passionate
fa1· th;m all these
is that toilsome
which kads. ns. at last. to
goal of serene satis-

largest Lmlgc in
bnt by far the
Masonic Lodge on
earth, the
of Palestine Lodge . now exceeding 2,000. a
larger membership than is enrolled in many a great jurisdiction of the
world.
The Crand ]\faster pai(l many v1s1ts to snhonlinatcs of the jurisdiction within the year; he Yisitc<l Alexandria (Va.) Lodge upon the
occasion of the annu;d
of the Vvashington l\Iemorial Association. and we have from him the report of the YCry latest of the
so-called conferences of Grand l\fasters, which convened at Tuscan
Temple, St. Louis, Mo., on Thursday morning, }fay 14, 1914, just
a few days before the Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge
of }.fichigan.

84

on this earth we live
And
the \'arion;; qualities of men.
Th<: more we fed the high stern-featured beauty
Of pl:1 in dcrntedm·ss to duty."

"ThC'

-James Russell Lowell.
Brother Perrett then paints with a touch oi tenderness the dread
yj,;itatiun which took from the Grand Lodge within three months after
his installation their belove<! Crand }laster Dr. Francis D. Clarke.
lie rdt:rrcd al"> with fcding to the passing within the year of Past
Gram! ]\Jaster Swed. "a rugged, fearless man, who did not trim his
sails to cYen
breeze."
He also. rderred with emotion to the death of Brother James
DradJe,-, Past Grand }faster.
1t.
seldom in reading the address of Grand l\Iastcrs that one
car, s to linger upon the sub-division headed "X ccrology," but Brother
Perrett', address affonls an exception to the rule, because it is studded
with so many bea11tifol
gems that cast a radiance of beauty
over the report.
,\ year of marked cicti\'ity in J\lasonic affairs is disclosed in the
Gran(! l\Iastcr's Address.
\ Jan.!c' nnmber of 'pecial comnmnications of the Grand 1:oc\ge
\\ere helcl, for the· Pllr\l(N' of laying cornerstones of puhlic buildi~gs;
of dedicating l\Iasonic halls; of constituting Lodges and for various
other purposes, etc.
\rnona the many ccrcmonil's of this character was the dedication
,
" T clll[l Ie on 'I
' 9 , 1914, , tl1e
of not only the
of I'akstine
,, arcn

is

The Acting Grand }faoter was C\'idcntly vastly
the St. Louis·
for the following statement
of the work of this convention:

85

with

The week will
down into historr as one of the most important in
Freemasonry_ T-he Conference of Grand
Masters was a grand sncccss frou~ every viewpoint. The growth
and ever increasing power of the organization was shown as it
never has been shown before; the attendance of Grand Lodge
representatives was larger than at any previous conference, and
the consideration of the various topics under consideration. produced a closer rdationship. with possibilities of more uniform
legislation than has hitherto been experienced in the yarious
jurisdictions.
As we han~ frequc'ntly remarked in the course of this correspondence report, we differ from those who helievc that any good is intended by those who are fostering and promoting these annual gatherings, for,
their protestations to the contrary, the real
or covert pu1·pose
encouragement to the idea of a General
Grand Lodge.
Concerning lhl· ;\fasonic Home, the Grand l\Iaster shows that he
posscssrs a warmth of friendly feeling towards the institution, am!
supported, as he i:' in this hclicf. by the vast majority of the members
of the jurisdiction, we arc sure that this great 1\Iasonic charity will
receive the most genuine and cordial support:
The l\fasons of ::\1 ichigan liaYc a right to feel justly proud of
the splendid Home which is maintained hy the Grand l,odge.
This institution is in good condition and being well
Every effort has hcen made to administer its affairs "'"'"''""'""1
and to keep within the Grand
appropriation.
Home
at Alma is practically full and
is not far distant when
the erection of another
at that institution will claim the
attention of the Crand Lodge.
Among the things which the so·called conference of Grand
Masters has considered, is the limit of expense which one

86

,,I

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRlDSPONDENCE.

may properly incur for another Lodge in the care of a distressed
member belonging to the other Lodge.
'The fact that the so-called conference of Grand l\fasters presumes to make a 1-ecu11111H:ndation that thi:- expense he limited, gives to
the sugge:;tion 1w added weight; yet, inasmuch as an as,.;emblage of
from various Cram! Lodges has discussed this proposition.
a reason for setting forth their ideas upon the subject,
~vhich we vcn· cheerfully do, at the same time venturing the suggestion that h;tving had considerable experience as ~ m~mhcr of one
of the large Boards of He!ief of California, the wntcr is able to say
that what may he a rea,;onahlc figure as a limit of expemlitttrc in one
case, may he. altogether an unrcas"nablc figure. in , another case, and
that to attempt to fix an arhitrary limit is a conkssrnn that those \:'!10
arc attempting this arc not as practically informed upon the subject
as are those who arc daily handling cases of that character, such as
are handled particularly by onr California Board,; of Helicf.

Franci~co, quoting frum the address of Grand :\laster Filmer upon
the subject.
H,e evidently considers that Grand Master Filmer was entitled to a
great deal of credit for his m1mcrous Yisitations to subordinate Lodges.
Complimentary reference is also made to the Grand Oration of
Brother \V illiam Rhodes
Brother \Vinsor is hy resolution of the Grand Lodge of 1\fichigan
practically limited to sckctions for quotation, thncby avoiding the
possibilit:-' of friction with other jurisdictions hy adversc or unfriendly
comment.

This is the suggc,;tion upon thi,; subject of the so-called Conferences of (;rand :\!asters:
Sometimes a Lodge finds it ncn'ssan· to dir<'ct a Ledge in a
rn•ighboring jurisdiction. to
for . it; sick or bury its dead.
often this direct1011
transmitted hy
but i:o
is placed upon the amount to he expended.
result
that the Lodge
w·ith the
nms up a .bill
far hevond the
of the Lod11;e
When the, t1111tl
of settlement comes there is m11ch 1~1
and the (,r:in
:\Tasters of the several states involn·d !rnd themselves d:awn mto
the·
·
in an effort to affect a s('ttlcment. Thts suhiect
received
at the rccrnt confcrrn:'.c of Grand l\faster.s
and it w;1s agreed that whcr<' a Lodge ts directed to care fo\ :'.
sick hrothcr or hury the dead for another Lod!!C and no. spect!~~
amount is
to he cxpcmlcd. that thE> Lodge domr:; tlus
work shall he
to an expenditure of $100.0~ unless 1t ~'.a~
siwcific directions di1crwisc. T believe that this ts a very .wise;
mcasm-c and that the Grand Lodge should j!l't the matter before
the Lodges of the State in such a rnamwr that th<.'y will
stand what limitations an: placed about them 111 matters
kind.

Th<.' Sixty-rirst ,\nnual Communication of the .\lost Worshipful
Grand Lodge of :\ncicnt Free and Accepted ::\lasons of 1\Jinnesota
was held in the ::\lasonic Temple, Sixth Street and Smith AvC'nne, in
the city of St. Paul, commencing at high twelve on 'Wednesday,
Jantiary 21, A. D. 1914, A. I., 5914. All the Crane! Officers were
present. During the session 228 Lodges were rcprcs·,ntccl out of 255
on the roll, with Grand l\fastcr Hayes Laird presiding.
\Vithin the year the Crand ::\laster. it appears, was requested on
several occasions to make I\lasons at sight.
He declined the request in each instance, holding that with Lodges
as plentiful as they arc in l\linncsota, there is no excuse for any
Grand Master attempting to exercise a prerogative of such doubtful
existence as that of making l\Iasons "at sight," as it is usually understood.

:s.

From an examination of the statistical table. we learn that the
mm1hcr of active Lodges :\Tay 1. 1914, was 428; that the total membership January 1. )914. was 74.964: which was a net _gn~n over the preceding vear of 3,212. This. we believe-, places l\f 1ch1gan among the
first fiv~ or six of the American jurisdictions.
· 11y ti1e V ery Worshipful
The Correspon(lcncc Rt'port. as usua1. 1s
(:rarnl Secretary Lon B. ~Winsor, who l1y the brn· of Michigan constitt,tcs !he Committee on Foreign Correspondence.
.
1 lc gives a comprehensive review of Californ_ia. 1913, referring
particularly to the dcdicntion of t l1c new "I
lv asontc T cmp Ie in San

\Vrr.r.rA~r ;\I. PF.RNETT, Grand }faster, Detroit.

Lor I\. \V1'1sOH, P. (~ . .\I., (~rand Secretary. Recd City.
MINNESOTA.

1914.

Fraternal recognition was denied to the so-dlkd York Grand
Lodge of Mexico, hecause it is apparemly endeavoring to share its
territory with the so-called Scottish Rite Grand Lodge, and on the
further ground that there can he hut one Crand Lodge in any
territory.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands.

The Grand Master reports having attended the George \Vashington Masonic :i'\ational .\Iemorial Association at ,\lexandria, Va .. on
February 22, 1913, and he gives the project the support of his official
approval.

'rhe report of the Committee on Documentary Evidence was submitted and adopted, and is as follows:
.
It is a matter of concern that our Lodges arc not more exactmg and discriminating in the manner of investigation of visitors

88

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
hcforc they art>. admittl'<l to 1he Lodge room am! in accepting a
brother's avoucirn1e11t as to the :\Iasonic stamling of a brother with
,whom he once sat in a Lodge.
A :Masonic acquaintance, however
is a valuable asset and our brethren and our Lodges arc·
with thousands of
traveling schemers seeking either financial or influential aid for
themselves, puhlicity and notoriety for enterprises they arc exploiting, or expecting to enjoy the bcnclit of fraternal courtesies to
which they arc not entitled and for which they do not contribute.
These solicitants arc, for the most part, made un oi the product of
clandestine Lodges who are making so-called "Masons"; unscrnpu~
Ions individeals who have
adepts by a street education,
assisted by unwise prompting
the numerous examining committees tb<:y have encountered in their travels; those stricken from
the rolls, suspended and expelled :\lasons and those who have demitted and who have not contrihuted to Masonry for years. At
the Lodge they biithely take the oath and display a knowledge of
!he esoteric work and lectLJres that will satisfy the most exacting
examining committee.
Personal anmchment as to a brother's standing is not always
to be relied upon,
the brother
the information may know
only in a general
or at some place he sat
with the brother
since that time may
have been stricken from the rolls for non-payment of dues, suspended or expelled.
The only safe method to guard against an impostor is to refuse an examination of a visitor unless he is in possession of some
written evidence, direct
a Lodge, showing that he was in good
standing in a regular
at a date, say, within one year prior to
the time of the
visit. A brother should not vouch for a
brother visitor
whon1 he has sat in a Lodge unless he has
been
documentary evidence to convince him that the
brother
in good standing in some Lodge recognized by our
Grand Lodge.
Our Grand Lodge Constitution wisely provides that docmncntary evidence must be a prerequisite to an examination of a
visitor to a Lodge. Section 23 of Article IV recites: ''Nor shall
any visitor l:e admitted witl:out satisfactory proof that he is in
good standing in his Lodge, or was in the last Lodge of which he
was a member.''
This evidence must be prerequisite to an examination to ascertain if the visitor is a Master '.\fason and if vou are entitled to
hold Masonic ccnwrsation with him.
•
A resolution was adopted by this Grand Lodge in 1912. directing the Grand Secretary to provide "at actual cost receipts for anmtal dues to each subordinate Lodge bearing on the reverse side
a certificate of the
of the Lodge a~nd a facsimile of the
Grand Secretary's signature and the seal of the Grand Lodge."
Thi' was a long step in the right direction, but the resolution
should be strengthened by an amendment providing that these receipts should prominently designate the
and be supplied
yearly and without cost tn all of the
Lodges and that
any other form oi receipts should be prohibited. Many of the
Crand Jurisdictions refuse to accept a receipt for dues, as documentary evidence, unless the receipt bears on the reverse side a
certificate of the regularity of the subordinate Lodge issuing the
rccdot.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

89

This jurisdiction now has a membership of 27,447, a gain of 911
over the preceding year, with active Lodges numbering 253.
The Correspondence Report is hy Brother Irving Todd, California,
1912,
briefly considered.
Rom·'.R1' E. Di'NFELll, Crand ]\faster, Duluth.
JoH~ FJSHEL, Grand

Secretary, St. PanL
MISSISSIPPI.

1914.

The >: incty-sixth Annual Grand Communication of the Grand
Lodge of l\Iissic:sippi, Free and Accepted l\fosons, was held in the City
of l\lcridian on Tuesday, February 17th, A. L. 5913, A. D. 1914, Crand
Master Alfred R Bays presiding.
Preliminary to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge a public
reception was held, at which a program of music and addresses was
gone through with.
From the scholarly Address of \Vekome rendered by Right
\Vorshipful Brother A. X. Amis, we excerpt as follows:

. \V ould that I had th~ tongue of a Prentiss or Lamar to give
voice to the welcome which wells todav from the hearts of more
than eight hundred l\fasons of this city.· From time to time. many
strangers come among m<, and all are welcome. J\f any there arc
;,vho come for purposes of trade and commerce, thus adding to the
busy hum of our industrial life. while others come for pleasure, and
by their presence add to our jovs and pleasures. 'To the one we
extend a cordial welcome to our' marts of trade. to our shops, our
offices and our
and to the other a weicome to our parks
and clnhs and resorts
recreation and pleasure. \V c welcome
them because we know that thev come for mutual profit and mutual
pleasure, and that which is to their profit is to ours also, while that
which contributes to their plcarnre hut adds to our own.
Tlic Ninety-sixth Annual Commnnication of the Grand Lodge
of Free and 1\cceptcd Masons of l\Hssissippi ! \Vhat a world of
meaning the words contain I \Vhat a wealth of noble endeavor
and generous impulse of bygone days they suggest, and what a
promi~c of future. service to mankind they convey 1 Ninety-six
years. A long period when measured hv the short term of human
life, hut only a span wl;en considered ~ith reference to the agclong struggle of lmmamty upward from the depths of harharism
and degradation! Ninety-six vrars ! Soon will the Grand Lodrrc
of J\lississippi ha\·c reached it:.; centennial: hut will it like the
centu.ry p}ant then reach its point of greatest hcauty and glory,
b~irstmg mto blom,n and scattering its fragrance to the world?
Not so-Masonry 1s not a centnry plant. but a plant which has
grown and d~veloped, an:l will ~ontinue to grow and develop
througliout ah the cent11nes, until swords shall he beaten into
plough shar~s, irntil the lion and the lamh shall lie down together,
and the nations .shall ~ea~e to mo~1rn. Then in the glad morning
of the resurrection will 1t reach its greatest perfection, and will

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
blosrnm and hloom in the presence of the most high Goel as it
scattei-s it:.: fra;.tr:mce over the assembled hosts of the redeemed, as
they join in th~ mighty anthem, Glory to God, :me! peace on earth,
good will to men.
Tn the erection of thcooc temples our ancient brethren wrought:
and whether it look the form of Hebrew temple, Mohammedan
or Chri;;tian church, they lahorcd with equal zeal. And mcthat ofttimes as they wrought. carving some halustradc or
the sound oi mallet and chisel, and the ring of the trowel
as it struck the stone, was hlcnded with the chant of the prie:.:ts, the
solemn notes of the oq.u111 and the prayl'rS of !he worshippers as
the\· knell at the altar. · Xo wonder m1r ancient brethren caught a
,·i:Jon ancl felt that they, too, were a part of the service. and that
they, too. were honoring Cod in their work of erecting a tC;tnple to
His
and His honor. "'\o womler that th<·r wrought with such
skill aml care as to command the admiration of succecdX o wonder that, as they saw stone after stone
ln· their tools to tit into the structure of the edifice, they
bcoan to
1·isualizc them as symbols of great morn! and spiritual
tntths 1
:\fasonry is still building tcmpks to the glory of God; hut now
it is hnilding spiritual rather than material temples. Temples
of truth :mcl l'irtuc, of faith and lo\'C; temples not 111ade with
hanch, which shall bC' eternal in the hca\'ens.

The annual address of Grand Master Bays possesses to a rcmarkahk (lcgn'<' the merit o{ brc\'ity, !he report occupying six pages only
of the prin!cd proceedings. ?\cvcrthe!ess. the document is businesslike in tone; it sets forth the official acts of the Grand :.\faster; it disdoscs a measure of activity; corncrston<:s were placed to not less than
three pnblic 1Jl1ildings;
to form six new Lodges were
gmntcd; the Lodges that received clrnrtcrs at the preceding Annual
Communication wne dnly constituted, and notwithstanding the impaired
health of the Grand ]I.faster, he having suffered a stroke of paralysis
within the year which confined him to his room for more than a month,
yet discharged the duties of his office with ability and judgment.
He refers to the official visit which he paid the Mawnic Orphan's
Home. He found the children romping and playing as if really at home,
aml he adds that it will do every Y\Iason good to \'isit the place and
tu he impressed. as was he. with its home-like atmosphere.
One of the features of the Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge wa,: the ceremony which the Grand Lodge conducted of placing
the cornerstone of the new Scottish Rite Cathedral at l\Ieridian.
An alilc and eloquent address was (klivcrC'd hy Ilrother M. R.

Grant.

The Committee on Law arnl JurL.:prtHkncc rendered a decision
touching the qul'stion of jurisdiction O\Tr work commenced hy a Lodge
but 1101 completed l:y that L0<lgc, because of its going out of existence.
The committee held that when a Lodge becomes defunct, its ,liaterial passes by operation of law to the nearest Lodge, and that the

··----------------

-- -

.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

91

jurisdiction of the nearest I.,odge extends O\'er the uncompleted work
of the defunct Lodge. the same ;1s if the defunct Lodge had never
been in existence.
'fhe subject is somewhat unusual a11d it may fairly he doubted if
the rule bid down would work in all cases.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is hr Brother Oliver Lee
M 'Kay. At the outset Brother M'Kay expres,;e~ some misg1v111gs as
to his ability to adequately perform the task imposed upon him when
comparison is 1111avohlahle with his good friend Ilrother Harn· T.
Howard. Past Grand :\laster, who preceded him as correspondent. .
fie gives assurance. however, that he will render the best there is
in him and hopes that his efforts may in a measure satisfy his
brcthre1J.
·
He rc\'icws in an intelligent and painstaking manner the urnal
American and Foreign jurisdictions, in which he gi\'cs foll and
comt<'ous consideration to California. 1912, with Jiber;1l quotations from
the address of the Grand :Master anc! se\'cral of the committees.
[n his rc1·icw of British Columbia. he says:
"There will never be a nc~ro made a l\I ason 11nder the j urisdic-tion of the Grand Lodl!e of Mississippi. nor will l\fississippi continue
fraternal relations with an American Jurisdiction who will permit
such condition.s to prevail within its hordcrs."
The question has been propounded by some of the other correspo_ndcnts as to why he would discriminate between American jurj,;_
dictions and others. inasmuch as :\ova Scotia is an American Grand
Lodge and still has on its regist(•r a Lodge of negrn l\fasons. In our
judgment, Kew Jersey is no 111ore to be hlamed for its Lodge of negro
Masons than is No\'a Scotia fop its Lodge, Nova Scotia inherited its
Lodge of negro Masons from England. and the negro Lodge in '!\few
Jersey was, as we understand it. surreptitiously foisted upon the jurisdiction.
Brother M'Kay's conclusion is very interesting, which is our exct•se for quoting it in foll as follows:
A careful study of the Masonic jurisdiction with which this
Grand Lodge is in fraternal correspondence reveals the fact that
our . relations w_ith all continue extremely courteous and harmo1uous, a1vl without our own jurisdiction, Deace and harmonv
abound. This is as it sbonhl be, for tntly it c·an he said of Freemasonry: ::Her ways are ways of pkaoantness, am! all her paths
:ire pe;1ce.
vVhen such prnn:s not the cas<', the brethren had
lwtter "tnke stnck" at once am! get right.
The liquor que;.:tin11 co111imies to claim attention in those
iurisdictions :Vhich. have not yet pnt the bn on the saloon.
kecpe!· .so:11e 1ns1stmg on a general law against him. as we ha ·e
1
Ill M.1ss1ss1ppi, while others desire to leave the settlement of the
question to subordinate lodges through the exerdse of the black

92
·1

I

ii

I
j]
!!I

'

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
ball, \Ve arc inclined to the belief. that the prospect of gcttin.r
r_c~ults dirough. the latter sug~cstion, favorable to the positio~
t,tl;-i:n. by those ''ho
barrmg the saloonkeeper from membership m a l\fasomc
trlO rf'motc for such disposition of so
vital a qucst1011.
mind the
of the saloonkeeper in
American
doomed. as
should be Cod
J
the dav'
·
· "
spec<

Q~itc a large 11u1!1her of jurisdictions have subscribed to meml~crshtp m th\' l\fason1c Relief Association of the United States and
Canada, a most commemlahlc project, which should have the
hearty endorsement of all.
·" _The. George. \Vashi~1gton Xation;\l l\fasonic J\Icmorial Assou<1t1on 1s _likewise _enhstmg the hearty support of neariv all
;\ mi:ncat'. ('.rand Jnnsd1ctinns. Tts name, apart from the splendid
;!.n'.1 .'.)atnottc pnrposf's, should imprcs,s the association upon the
t.n 01.1hlc cons1dcrat10n nf Anwncan I· rccmasonrv.
_ :he. quest.ion of a uniform
governin.g th<' recognition
nt Fo.rc1gn Cra111l Jnnsd1ct1011
claiming intcl!igcnt attention
as 1t J.ustly desc.n·cs. Tt is pointed out that at the present time
no i·rnfnrm has1s has ken established upon which recognition
:Jrnuld he granted or refm.cd. For instance. 'Mississippi is in
lra_t.en;al. corre~~onde_ncc. \~1th foreign Jurisdictions that other
Jm 1sd1et1ons. w1tn winch n is 111 fraternal accord, do not 1·ecognize
and YI cc versa .. \Ve t!1mk the
a pertinent one and ,,:orth;
carefol and 1mmed1at?
.
that a uniform system may
he ag1 <:ed upon as a ffectmg American Grand Bodies
.\ great deal is being said 011 the question of ex~rnpting clcrrrvmcn from the p;_1ymcnt of fees and dues; as a rule, thev ;ire prcttv
generally taken l!l free and charged no dncs. Better le-t "them alone
hrcthrrn; thi:y an;.
a class not over-hurdened with this world'~
goods, ~ml what litt_Je they havi: is heavily over-taxed bv demands
for assistance-far 111 excess of the average individual.' and from
sources one would little dream.
. Charity, t~1at grand a1:d noJik basis ~pon which the superst1 nctnrc of Frcc~nasonry 1s bmlcled, contmues to be exemplified
lhronghout and m;prcsscd upon the world as reflected in the
many, many l\fasomc Homes erected for the aged the indigent and
th.: orphan.
'
' <
'.fhc practice o! rcq11ir_ing V}rlges, di:siring to attend divine
ser\'tcc, to sccur~ chsp.:ns;it1011 from the Gram! l\faskr permitting
tl;em to do ~o, is one which we have always looked upon with
rhsfavor. It rn, clcarlv. heyond our comprchensinn why a Lodgi: of
l\fa;011s, m~n. tree, w_h1te, and twenty-one. should han: to ask anv
ones per1!11ss1on to listen to the work of (;od. the Great Jchovali,
preached m church or s:rnagogue. It smacks ton much of paternalism to us, and further, 1t is un-Ameriean; better let clown the bars
and . encou,~age the brethren to go to God's house- as often as
possible.
T was glad when they said nnto me we will go into
the hous~: of the Lord. C?pen me the gatcs of righkousni:ss that I
m~y go m.to. th<:m, and give .thanks unto the Lord." So sang the
S\\eeti:st _smgcr 1;1 all Israel.' 111 the days when men did not have to
sern_re d1spensat10n to go mto the house of the Lord "the gates
of righteousness."
'
Another noticeahle example of apoarent cnd('avor to set up a
paternal form of government, as before cited, is the attempted

o:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
infringement hy Grand Lodges upon the inherent rights and
privileges of subordinates, noticeably in the matter of communication, one with the other. Some Crane! Masters insist upon such
correspondence passing through the offices of the Grand Masters
of the Jurisdictions affected. \Ve are in he::irty sympathy and accord
with those who oppose such an undemocratic and un-Masonic
effort to impose on the rights and privileges of subordinate Lodges
-the source from which all Grand Lodges and Grand :\Iasters live
and have their being.
It is quite noticeable that some few Correspondence Reporters
continue to unfavorably criticise the action of the Grand Lodge of
Mississippi in withdrawing fraternal correspondence from the
Grand Lodge of New Jersey on account of said Grand Lodge permitting Alpha Lodge, chartered under its Jurisdiction, to confer
the Degrees upon and elect to membership negrocs. :\s a rule,
such criticism is fraternal and
hut occa;;ionally some
good Brother tries to
presume to give evidence
that lie is still "one
and "pokes fnn at ns," as
Brother Howard terms it. Ridicule never settled anything, and it
is un-1v1asonic to apply it to a great Masonic Jurisdiction for th.:
it takes on any question which in its judgment seriously
the very best interests of Freemasonry, as we believe, and
know the one under consideration does. To our way of thinking
there is no more serious problem confronting the American Jurisdictions
than this ncgro Lodge in Xew Jersey, working
under and
the consent of said Grand Jurisdiction, which gives
evidence of its great desire to correct and get a way from the
blight, but. in the same breath admits absolutely its inability to
do so. There is- a great deal that can he said on this question, but
with this simple stati:ment, we leave the subject, admonished by
those Masonic virtues, "Silence and Circumspection." leaving
the adjustment of this matter to Father Time, the great healer of
all ills and the revealer of all truths. with the hope that some
time, and in some
the great heart of American Freemasonry
may be united in the
of friendship morality, and brotherly
love.
\Vith a heart full of love and gratitude to you, dear brethren
of Mississippi, and sincere greeting to the brethren of the Round
Table, at whose feet, as it
we have sat for many years as an
humble Craftsman, drinking
from the fountain of wisdom
so beautifully and instructively revealed in the Reports on Foreign
Correspondence, we leaye this, our initial review to your careful
consideration in the hope that you will find therein revealed that
which may prove entertaining and instructive. May God bless
"you all," and have you and your loved ones in His tender keeping during the corning year, is our sincere prayer.
ROBERT A. CARSON, Grand Master, Columbus.
FREI>ERlC GORDON SPEED, Grand Secretary, Vicksburg.

94

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
MISSOURI.

1913,

The ::\inety-thir<l Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free an<l Accepted Masons of the State of Jl.1:isso11ri convened
at Scottish Rite Cathedral. Seventeenth and Locust Street, St. Louis,
:\fo., September 30, 1913, at IO o'clock a. m., Grand ::I.faster Jacoh
Lampert presiding.
Prior to the opening of the Grand Lodge, one of the celebrated
orchestras of St. Louis, of which the Grand Master Brother Jacob
Lampert is a member, rendered a magnificent and pleasing musical
program as a personal compliment to the Grand Master, and it is a
notable fact that all members of the orchestra, fifty-five in number,
are :\faster :\lasons.
The children from the Masonic Home appeared in the midst of the
prngram ;md sang in a sweet and charming manner se\·eral delightful
1111mbers.
The prd\l(le to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge was distinctly refreshing an(J altogether inspiring.
Several years ago Brother Lampert was opposed for elevation to
the position of Junior Grand \Varden, leading to the Grand Master's
Chair in an anony111ot1s circular sent throughout the jurisdiction, on the
ground of Brother Lampert's Hebrew faith.
This cowardly attack produced what might have been anticipated, a
\veil-nigh united support of Brother Lampert, and his elevation to the
highest honors in JVlissouri Masonry was enthusiastic and unanimous.
and his extremely capahlc administration of the office of Grand Master
demonstrated the wisdom of his selection and fully justified the cordial
and united good will that has sustained him throughout.

Jn opening his annual address, he pays homage to the Ever Living
and Tnie God thus:
"At the close of a year's labor, and from the qnarries where
we ha\'e toiled, we have been permitted to assemble in Annual
Communication by the favor of the One Living and True God
to whom every FreeJnason, from the youngest E. A. in the N. E.
to the \V. M. in the East, should humbly and reverently bowl
"\Ve meet again; but we miss the companionship of some who
were wont to grace our mc0tings with their presence; whose fraternal hands we so gladly clasped, but who are with ns no more:
they have passed into the Great Beyond. Thus, we arc again reminded of the common lot of man. Soon, and how soon none can
tell, we too, must enter on our last, long sleep."
H c refers to the death within the year of Past Grand Master Ethellwrt F. :\lkn and pays just tribute to his memory.

RJ:i:POR'l' ON CORRESPONDI<~NCE.

95

His reference to the Masonic Home, which is the one thing in
which ::\fis:rnuri Masons particularly take pride, shows that he is in
cordial sympathy with the institution. This is what he says:
(

'·Year after year the Freemasons of ::\1issouri have pointed with
added pride to this splendid and practical eYidence of Masonic
charitv. I have alwavs felt a deep interest in the Home, have
visiterl it often, and for the past four years have attended nearly
cnry meeting of the board in my capacity as ex-officio member.
These \'isits were not only a duty hut a pleasure as well. The Masonic II ome is the highest expression of the true Masonic spirit in
our Jurisdiction. All have contributed; but what are silver and
gold when weighed in the bahmce against human life and
well-being? lf our contributions to this great work had availed to
bring peace and comfort to only one aged man or women and to
smooth the pathway to the grave. is there one of us who would
withdraw his gift, were it possible. and leave the helpless to die
in wretcheduess and want? Or. if only one child, orphaned and
helpless, had been protected and cherished, educated and trained
to a useful life. is there one amongst us who would regret the cost
to him?"

In his reference to the "Melting Pot" may be found a trace of the
proud and ancient faith to which he belongs :
Our Fraternity may well be compared to a melting pot or
crucible in which the various elements of our population may be
fused into one common mass, and the figure is not inapt. vVhen we
consider the manv classes and conditions of men that are daily
landing on our shores and becoming part of our national life,
we can easily see that any influence which tends to remove from
them the dross of ignorance and prejudice, belonging to their old
conditions. and bringing them into sympathy with our own institutions, is most useful and worthy. \Vhatever of antagonism exists
between races and classes is most unfortunate, and of all societies,
Freemasonry is especially called and fitted for assimilation work.
Its genial spirit should thaw into streams of sympathy the icy
barriers which too often separate men, and unite them into one
common band of friends and Brothers; and, failing in this, it
signally fails in one of its missions. If this be true, how strange
to hear or to know of Lodges into which men of certain faiths
are denied admission ; or even more strange, a Lodge at whose
door a policeman, a fireman or a letter carrier knocks in vain!
A Lodge erecti1~g such barrier or holding such prejudices is manifestly lacking in that broadness of thought and feeling which should
characterize everv member of our Fraternity. Let us hope that
wherever such sp'irit may now exist it will soon disappear forever.
Intelligence and good moral character may be found in all the
walks of life. Freemasonry should regard no man for his worldly
wealth or honors. \tVith education, as now generally diffused,
there is no occasion for caste.
The Grand Master refers with evident pleasure to the ceremony
which he was privileged to participate in of the reception of the
"Traveling Trowel" on the evening of November 28, 1912, at George

96

HEPOllT OX CORIU<;SPO:\Dli.:NCE.

\ \' ashingtnn Lrnlgc :\o. 3, Kamas City.

The occasion was a gala one,

iwt less tkm 900 .\lasons h('ing in altenclancc, ancl the occasion was

graced liy the presence of distingnishc<l Masons from the jurisdiction
nf .\Iissouri and elsewhere.
1 k also rcfrrs with c1·idcnt pleasure to his attendance upon the
meeting of the C('orge \Yashington .\kmorial National Association. He
cmnmernL; the purpose of the organization and recommends participation therein hy the Grand Lodge of ::\Iissouri, in which rccom1lH_'tHhttion \Ve disagree.
\\'e place this proposition very much upon the same level as the
m:mcrous dturts \1·hich han: h:cn made in recent years in the direction
of conferences of Grand :\Tasters. These efforts all squint in the
direction of the formation of a Supreme or National Grand Lodge,
all of \Vhich is clistinctly contrary to the landmarks of Masonry.
Brother Lampcrt's admini,lration was one full of action; not less
than sc\·cn dispensations were issued to form Grand Lodges; at least
twelve cornerstones were laid under Masonic auspices; five of these
services the Grand Master conducted in person; he installed
officers
of a large number of Lodges; he dedicated numerous halls and Lodges,
and he otherwise displayed by official visitations to subordinate Lodges
;1ml in other ways, a marked degree of activity.

The conclusion oi his excellent address is as follows:
"c\nd now.
lm:thrcn, my \vork is completed and my record
and report are
yon. I am to wield the gavel but a few hours
lunger ;<ntl then resign it to my successor; a few, short hours in
which to enjoy this exalted position, and then agnin to take my
place among the workmen engaged in the building of the Temple
of l [u111;mity. Others will come dtcr me, wiser and more worthy,
ht'! none who \v"ill more appreciate the high honor conferred. I
have honestly stri\'cn to meet all demands made upon me and condischargc the manifold duties pertaining to this exalted
If I have succeeded in g·aining the approval of the
Craft. the honor conncctetl with the office and the pleasure incident lo the \York, will most amply comp.cnsate me for the time and
labor so gladly given.
I
the hope that something I have done may be
of
to
great Cause in which we arc so earnestly engaged,
and then retire with the
tender. fraternal regard and the
highest appreciation of the
extended to me."
During the Proceedings Right \Vorshipiul Brother John Pickard,
(;rand Orator, 1klivcrcd a most interesting address for which he received the thanks of the Grand Lodge, and by motion duly made and
sccondecl, the oration was ordered printed in full in the Proceedings.
A distinguished visitor in thc person of Most \Vorshipful Brother
Frank ll. \Vhitakcr, Grand .\faster of Iowa, was received during the
session,
a pleasing address which was fittingly responded to by
(;rand .\Jaster I,ampcrt.

RI<JPORT ON CORRJ<JSPONDENCl<;.

97

Fraternal recognition was cxtcnclcd to the Grand Lodge of the
·Philippine Islands and denied to the independent Grand Lodge of
Domingo.
;\fissouri has. in the opinion a great many thoughtful Masons,
practically abolished the landmark, if it may he calkd a landmark, concerniq.; physical qualifications of candidates.
This, in our opinion, may hardly be considered a landmark, althoiigh it is classified as such hy some ::\fasonic anthorities; yet the
English rule has always b~cn to allow each subordinate Lodge to
exercise its own j11dgmcnt as to physical qualifications; but to return
to Missouri having practically set aside this qualilication, and as evidence of this fact, the (~rand J\faster rnkd in a case presented within
the vcar that a man haying k».;t his kit leg hclow the knee and rcplacctl
it ,;ith a cork kg, is eligible if ahk to conform with the ceremonies,
and the Crand JI.laster by way of justification observes that a "cork
leg discounts a cork head."
.
.
A strainC'd situation called for a ruling by the Grand JI.faster to
the effect tbat a J\fason holding memhcrship in the Order of Knights of
Columlms ·was still entitled to his ]\fasonic mcmhership.
This ccrtainh· is in accordance with the teaching of Craft Masonry.
. ,\ resoltitio1~ was adopted at this Annual Communication strictly
prohibiting rn10king in the Lodge rnom, not only <luring the conferring
of degrees, hut ;it all times when the Lodge is in session for any purpose. To all of which we say fine.
The report of Foreign Correspondence is hy Brother Past Grand
Master C. C. \Voods. Brother VvoO(ls makes a good report.
California, 1912. is considered with quotations of tables showing the
wonderful resources in many ways, such as the possession by the California Grand Jurisdiction of :\fascnic IIomcs, etc., etc.
VAN FRE;;roN'f HooR, Grand
Kansas City.
JoH N R. PARSON, Grand Secretary, Saint Louis.
NEW BRUNSWICK.

1913.
Tlw T<\wty-sixth !\rnmal Con1mu11icatio11 of "Tlw Crarnl Lodge of
the Ancient ;ml Jlonou.rablc Fraternity of Free and c\cceptccl Masons
of ~ ew Brunswick'' was held at Freemasons'
in the City of Saint
John, on 1\1csday. the 26th rlay of August. :\. D. 1913, A. L. 5913,
Grand Maskr Frederick John Cilmonr Knowlton in the East.
Previously within the year
Special Communication of the Grand
Lodge was held on August 30. 1912, for the purpose of conductin;;
the funeral ceremonies of the late Right 'Worshipful Brother David
Dearness, Past Deputy Grand Master.

98

99

REPORT ON CORRJDSPONDENCJ<J.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

A. Special Communication also was held in the City of St. John,
October 30, 1912, for the purpose of consecrating the new altar of the
Lodge rooms of St. John.
A Special Communication also was held in the :\Iasonic Lodge
room in the City of Moncton, June 22. 1913. to attend a special divin.c
service at St. John's Presbyterian church.
The Grand :\faster in his address feelingly rdcr.s to the <k·ath
within the year of a number of :\fasons eminent in the jurisdiction of
::\cw Brunswick
The feature also of his address is a record of his official visitations
to subordinates, showing a commcmlahle zeal and activity in this
direction.
He refers to the condition oi the Craft and upon the whole finds
prosperity and harmony existing to a marked degree.
From the Grand Secretary's report, we observe that the total membership of this virile little jurisdiction exceeds 3300 and shows a
substantial gain over the preceding year.
Official recognition of the Gran cl Lodge of the Philippine Islands
was deferred in order to learn what attitude the Grand Lodge of
Scotland was likely to take on the subject of the formation of a Grand
Lodge in the Philippines.
Inasmuch as Scotland has no Grand Lodge in the Philippine Islands, and inasmuch as a constitutional number of subordinate Lodges
combined to form a Grand Lodge, the onlv Grand Lodge in the
territory. we fail to see how the formation of
Grand Lod~e is anything to which Scotland can object.
Inasmuch, however. as Scotland is prone to claim all open territory
on earth, it would be in no degree surprising if Scotland should enter
some rnrt of a protest against the formation of an indepcnclcnt Grand
Lodge in the Philippine Islands, notwithstanding the fact that the
Philippine lslands are American territory, and if any Grand Jurisdiction has a right to objfct, it would he some American Grand Jurisdiction. notably California. The formation of a Grand Lodge in the
Philippine Islands was. howc\·cr, acquiesced in hy California, as it is
only through an independent Grand Lodge in the Philippines that anything like order can be expected to come out of the chaotic :\lasonic
conditions which heretofore have existed in that archipelago.
The Committee on Foreign Relations, if it did not display excellent
judgment concerning the recognition of the Philippine lsland Grand
Lodge. it did manifest good sound srnse in its comments touching the
official circular f1 om the Cram! Lodge of Oregon, suggcsting the
formation of some central rcpre.,entatfrc :\lasnnic Body. with anthority
to enact laws and take measures binding 11po11 the participating Grand
Jurisdiction.

The committee reports that it is of the opinion that all necessary
uniformity can be obtained in North America by each sovereign Grand
Lodge acting for itself and without the creation of any supervising or
Supreme Lodge.
There is no report 011 Foreign Correspondence.

;he

l71u:m::R1cK J. C. KNOWLTON, St. John. Grand Master.
). TwnlNG liARTT, St. John, Grand Secretary.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.

1914.
At the Vifty-lifth Semi-annual Con11mmicatinn of the ;\Iost
\Vorshipful Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of
the Ancicut Free and Acct•ptcd :\Iasonry in X cw Hampshire. which
was held in the City Hall in the city of Manchester, on Tuesday.
December 30, 1913, there were present :'.\fost \Vorshipful Holman A.
Drew. Grand Master, and other Grand Officers and Representatives
from sixty-seven out of the seventy-nine chartered Lodges.
This is the comnrnnication of the Grand Lodge held each year
for the purpose of exemplifying the '''or!c of the several degrees, and
various Lodges selected for the purpose exemplified the E. A., the
F. C.. and the l\f. >:. degr~cs to the delight am\ edification of the
assembled Grand Lodge. and after the closing of the Grand Lodge
the usual annual l;anquet provided by the Grand Lodge was served, at
which there was the usual flow of wit and eloquence.
The regular One H uudrcd Twenty-li.fth Annual Communication
of the Grand Lodge was held in the city of Concord on \Vednesday,
May 20. 1914, Most \Vorshipful Holman A. Drew. Grand .Master,
presidi!1g.
The pictun's of a large nnmhcr of those eminent in the annals of
Freemasonry of New Hampshire adorn the pages of the volume of
Proceedings, ckaling with the Annual Communication.
The Grand :'II aster reports a year of excellent Masonic work,
in which the Grand Lodge made satisfactory progress.
He states that owing to pre,;surc of business, he was unable to
attend the annual meeting of the George \Vashington I\ ational l\fasonic
Memorial Associatio11. and the \Norshipful Brother whom he commissioned to attend as his proxy, failed to make any report of the
111eeting.

Concerning the Masonic Home. he mentions in terms of highest
praise the matron, l\I rs. Luella C. Rurheck. l k states that during the
year he visited the Home frequently. going there at times unannounced,
am! limling at all times e\·erything in excellent order, foetl well cooked,
the service all one could ask for, the rooms clean and well furnished,

100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

HEPOR'l' ON COHRESPONDENCK

and the whole cstal)fohment breathing an atmosphere of homelike
peace and comfort.
The principal event. perhaps. of this Annual Communication. was
an observance of the One IT undred Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the
establishment of the Grand Lodge of ~cw Hampshire. the principal
feature of this observance being an historical address by ::\fost VI orshipful Brother Charles l lorace \Viggin. Past Grand ::\Jaster.
His address is well worth reading. It contains much of historical
interest, not only to the Grand Lodge of N cw Hampshire, but to
J\fasonry in general on the American continent. It shows that while
the Grand Lodr_;e of New Hampshire was not formally established until
1789. yet ::\Tasonry had existed and l\fasonic Lodges had existed in
~cw Hampshire prior to 1736. at which time St. John's Lodge No. 1 of
Portsmouth rccein·cl its charter June 24th. although the Lodge had
existed under dispensation for nearly a year prior to that elate;
and, inasmuch as the Grand Lodge of Eng-land. the so-called J\fothcr
Lodge of the world, was not established till 1717, it is evident that
the oldest regular Grancl Lodge in existence is not more than fifteen
or twenty years okkr than the first Lodge of ::\Iasons established in
:\cw Hampshire.
Brother Wiggin traces. in an exceedingly interesting manner. the
progress of the Grand Loclge during the more than a century and a
quarter of its existence, noticing its splcndill work and charities am!
leading up to the consumm<ition of ::\fasonic charity in the Masonic
Home. dedicated on J\fay 11. 1903.

\Ve part upon the Squ .\HE. for the .world must han its cine :
We minole with the nmlt1tudc. a faithful Band and true;
But the influence of our gatherings in memory is green,
And we long upon the LEVEL to renew the happy scene.

Brother \Viggin conclullcs his excellent paper with the following
well-known l\fasonic poem:
THE LEVEL ..\.'\D Tl!E SQU..\RE.
"\Ye meet upon the LEn'L and we part upon th<.> SQUARI\:
What words of precious me<ining those words Masonic arc!
Come. let us contemplate them 1 ~they arc worthy of a thought;
In the very walls of J\f asonry the sentiment is wrought.
\\' e meet upon the L1,1·i:r .. though from e1·cry station come,
The rich man from his pabce and thC' poor man from his home;
For the rich must leave his wealth and state outside the J\Iason"s
door,
.\ml the poor man linds his best respect upon the Checkered Floor.
\Ve act npon the Pu;~rn.-'t is the orders nf 011r Guide.\V <.> walk upright in· vi1·tuc"s way and lean tn neither side;
Th' ..\ll-Secing Eye that reads our hearts doth bear us witnC'ss
true;
That we still try to honor God <incl gi\'C each ni;in his due,

101

There's a World where all are eq11al,-wc are hurrying towards it
D I
fast,
\V c shall meet upon the L1\\"EL there. when the gates of eat l
are passed:
.
.
We shall stand before the Orient. and our ::\last.er will he there,
To try the blocks we offer with His own nnernng SQU.\RE.
vVe shall meet upon the LF.v£L there, but never thenc~ depar.t;
There's a Mansion,-'t is all ready for each trustmg, faithful
heart;· I · 1
There's a Mansion, and a vV elcorne, and a .nm1t1tu( e 1s t 1erc
\Vho have met upon the LF.n:L, and been tncd upon the SQUARF..
Let us meet upon the L1,\"EL, then, while laboring patient here;
Let us meet and kt us labor, thou15h the. labor be severe;
Alrca(h· in the \V estern Sky the signs bnl us prepare
To gather up our vVorking Tools am\ part upon the SQUARE.
Hands round, ye faithful Rrotherhoocl, the. bright fraten:al chain,
vVe part upon the SQUARE belo_w, to meet 111 Heaven a_gam.1
What words of precious meanmg those words Masomc ~,re,W e meet upon the LEl"EL and we part upon the SQUARE.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence, his eighth in number,
1s from the pen of Past Grand :Master Ilarry :\I. Cheney.
This from the introduction of his excellent paper:
I cannot rightly say that anything of great consequence has
been discovered. But there has come to me very much of happiness in the old, old things, almost rediscovered.
.
.
If one's mind and heart are all wrapped up m the .beauties,
in the worth, and in the dignity of our great fratern.1ty-and,
believe me, I am continuo~1sly in that mental and physical condition-what else but happmess may he expected when the n~w
hand is proffered. when the new face is seen, when the new v01ce
is heard-all evidencing that the world has many men who love
Freemasonry? \\'hat else Lut happiness may be expected from the
privilege of finding out what the brethren all over the world arc
doina? vVhat else but happiness may he expected when one
Ican~s anew that our institution is stronger than ever before,
performing its mission quietly, yet ~ffcctual)y? yVhat else but
happiness rnav lie expected when one 1s workmg with and for the
best men and J\Iasons of them all?
In this report, California, 1913, receives most kindly and courteous
consideration.
STEPHEN S. JEWETT, Grand l\Iaster, Laconia.
H:1RRY J\I. CHl!NF.Y, Grarnl Secretary, Concord.

lOZ

RE:POH.'l' ON CORRl:<JSPONDENCK

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

NEW JERSEY.

Brother Shirrcfs intimates that he will be among the visitors to
. California in 1915. \Ve trnst this expectation may he realized and
we be accorded the pleasure of meeting our distinguished brother in
person.

1914.
The Grand Lodge of the }Jost Ancient am! Honorable Society
of Free and Accepted }fasons for the State of I\ cw Jersey met in
Annual Communication at }lasonic Hall i11 the citv of Trenton
on \Veclncsday and Thursday, April 22d ,;ml 23d, A.
1914, A. L'.
5914, commencing \V cclncsday, the 22d inst., at 11 o'clock a. m., Gran cl
Master Freel E. Tilden presiding.

l).

The Grand l\laster in his annual address reports having constituted the two Lodges that rccci1·cd charters at the preceding
Annual Communication.
Three emergcnt rnmnHmications of the Grand Lodge were held
within the year for the pnrposi.' of laying cornerstones of public
buildings.
A large m1111her of v1<1tations to subordinate Lodges was made
by the Grand Master within the year, much to the bcnctit of the in-

dividual Lodges and their mcml:crship. The affairs of the Masonic
Home are reported to be in a prosperous and satisfactory condition,
although the accommodations, on ac<:ount of the increasing membership
of the fraternity, arc well nigh exhausted.
The Grand }faster reports the need of additional accommodations
at an early date.
The Grand ilJastcr reports the establishment of a clandestine
Italian Lodge, established by some alleged Grand Lodge of Italy, and
conveys a warning against extending recognition to any clamkstim·
Masons that may be created by this new Lodge.
From the report of the Grand Secretary, we learn that the membership January !, 1914, was 38,674, a nd gain of 2,025 over the preceding year. the largest net gain recorded in the hi;;tory of the Grand
Lodge.
According to the report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, the application for fraternal recognition of the Grand Lodge of
Egypt was denied.
Fraternal relations were established with the Grand Lodge of
Oklahoma, a successor to the former Gram! Lodges of Indian Territory and Oklahoma.
The able report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, hv Past
Grand Master Rohen H. Shirrcfs, Chairman. He reviews th~ Pro~
ceedings of sixty-five Grand Lodges. California, 1913, is fully and
fraternally considered.
The oration of Brother \Villiam Rhodes
Hervey was particularly mentioned and quotation made therefrom.

108

CHARI.Es P. Rvss, Gram! l\laster. Trenton.
BE::••J. F. \\t,\KEFlI'Ll>. Grand Sccrc·tary. Trenton.

NEW MEXICO.

1913.
The Thirtv-.sixth Annval Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient, Jtrec .and Accepted Masons of I\ew }Iexico was lield in the
Scottish Rite Cathedral, in the City of Santa Fe, on l\fonday, October
20, 1913, at 10 o'clock a. m., Grand l\faster Marine R. vVilliams presiding.
The number oi Lodges, 41; total membership, 3208; a gain during
the preceding year of 221.
The Grand .:\faster in his annual report advised the Grand Lodge
that Masonry had mack satisfactory progress during the preceding year;
that peace and harmony prevailed and that relations with the Masonic
world at large were cordial and fraternal.
Among .the decisions of the Grand Master is one to the effect that
a petition for degrees. after having heen referred to a Committee on
Investigation, may be withdrawn by unanimous consent of the Lodge.
This is not the rule in the Jmisdiction of California, nor, so far as
we are informed, elsewhere.
AnothC'r decision is to the effect that a dispensation has never
been granted to permit a Lodge to attend Divine service on Easter
Sunday. vV c agree with this position of the Grand Lodge of N cw
21'.fcxico, although, as it is well known, it is quite customary in many
jurisdictions to grant dispensations to attend Divine service.
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence recommended that
fraternal recognition be extendccl to the Grand Lodge of Queensland,
which recommendation was adopted, and recognition extended accordingly, and inasmuch as the views of the committee in the somewhat
vexed case of the standing of the Grand Lodge oi Queensland, are so
pertinently and cogently expressed, we give them in iull, as follows:
As many of vou are aware, I have declined the recognition
of the Grand Lodgc of Queensland on the ground that they did not
have the majority of the Lodges existent in that part at the time
of thi.' formation. I have lX'en .studying this prnposition and find
that in the last four years they have grown from thirty-four to
fifty-eight. T also find that the Grand Lodge of Ireland, while
not rescinding the tri-party agreement between the three mother
Lodges, has agn'ed to permit the Lodges of the J rish Jurisdiction

I'

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

to JOlll the Grand I~odgc of Queensland. 'fhc selfish actions of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland. in their "butting in," to use the vernacular, on the United States territory by establishing Grand
Lodges in the Canal Zone and in the Haw;iiian Islands, ;ire well
known. After reviewing these facts, I have come to the conclusion
that the Grand Lodge of Queensland should be recognized, and I
thcrdore recommend not that we exchange representatives with it,
b11t that it he recognized and that its members have all the rights
and privileges of visiting :vrarnns.
Jn this connection, T desire to criticize rather severclv the
actions of the Grand Lodge of Scotland in coming in upon lJnited
States territory and organizing Lodges in our Jurisdictions. There
is. to my mind, a certain ;imount of courtesy due in places belonging to other territorial Jmisdictions. If we are going to throw
the world wide open it will be another matter, but the American
id<'a that we shall he the sole judges of each one's rights and
pi·ivilegcs holds good in the dependencies and territories of America.
l note that the charter recognized by Scotland has been declared
irr<'gular in the Philippine Islands, and according to our American
ideas all we ask is "hands-off" as far as our jurisdictions extend.
;\merica has never claimed the right to charter Lodges or other
recognitions J\fasonically in places where another Lodge exists.
Scotland has, and we elaim the right to be supreme in our own
jurisdiction, and we will let everybody alone outside of those lines.
I recon11ne11d the recog-nition of the Grand Lodge of Queensland,
and that the Grand Secretary he directed to notify the proper
officials regarding the same.
The corrcsponclcncc report is as usual by Brother James I-I.
\Vroth, and contains much interesting information.
California docs not appear in his report.
Brother \Vroth's conclmion is in part, as follows:

I feel that the time has come when there should he a clearing
house of ::vr a sonic offences, or that there should be a conference of
Grand ?IIa,ters, 11ot at all with the idea of making a General
Grand Lodge hut that there might he a uniform set of laws, few in
number, which every Grand Lodge should obey, and as far as I
am conccnwd it can make all the additional laws that it pleases.
T believe firmly in the oltl English law and am convinccd that
Virginia is right in having no constitution, but abides by the
Ancient R('gulations.
vVe arc doing too much legislation, with the natural result
that we arc degenerating into a ho<ly of Masonic lawyers based on
the civic plan. If our fraternity is to amount to anything, it must
put itself on record and stick absolutely to the old line bws.
Some of you may imagine, and probably will. that this is becoming
a fossil, but the one thing that has held Masonry together has
been the inability to change the immutable laws of Masonry and
if we arc to continue to do as well in the future as we have done in
the past there must be no tampering with the old regulations and
constitution. I have been surprised to sec the various forms of
legislation introduced which reminds one more ·of a state legislature
than of a Masonic body. Masonry is practically an autocracy.
There is no appeal from the ]\faster, and the Grand Lodge is purely

R!DPORT ON COHRl£SPONDBNCE.

105

. 11 . . , ·f, ·th· rioht as there will come times
a legislative hod~, wlnc ~~ P~:·r~~it1 dlrccti;ms to be given the
when. there ncccl~ t.o 1 ~he re resentative assembly, but we reconst1tuent Lodges ft~l \
. , bnrnl Lodges are making changes
gret e:i:ttremcly to see. t 1a llhlm) It1~c' violation of the primeval law
in their laws that me an a Jso

1

of Mason_ry.
.
I
. ·to call the attention of all thinJcing
In this conncct1on, · 11esire
of I3ro Robert } reke
'I·
t the collected essays anc1 papers
:
. · l .i.
1' asons o
I·
k
J\h-onrv have made h1stonc.t u,ita.
Gould, wh;:ise ot 1cr wor.-: mt'.~: '.t'ntl 1'11's '011i11ions are not kd away
H. - •s are consen;:i ne '
· . ·
l
is ;die".
'fhe·, e .pa1wrs
hv f a l se
1 eas.
' · clear up m;un·
· false nottons anc arc
\\:orthy
of perusal.
.
. w1·11 ap11rcciate this· in the spirit it is
Trusting
the rev1ew<'rs
written, 1 remain,
:\\TRAX

J,\!'FA, Grand Master, Roswell.

· ·
ALPHOl:S
,'\. . Kr"N
,,,,., '

('r·tiic\
Sccretarv, Albuqt1crquc.
' '
k

,

NEW SOUTH WALES.

1913.
The volume of Proceedings imcI er review contains reports of the
communications as follo;vs :.
f J , l?tl l912 at which time the
..\ Special Comrnu111cat1011 o
u 1Y
1,
. , .
t·
th Crane\
. •.
. . .
. . ,1 I w<is the authonzatrnn o
e ,
.
principal busmess tr,lt~1oac e~ the existing Masonic hall premises 111
1Iaster for the pure Mse o .
: .
.
Sydney for a sum not cxceedmg £2~,0?0. .
- S
I
11 1912
The regular Quarterly Commumcat10;1 ot
eplcm Jer . •C u'
· .·
1,. R. VV. Deputy Grand ;vlastcr, Dr.
was prcsicled over ·}
.
·c1 bl , hsent and at this
G . d ;\;laster bemg unav01 a Y a
'
Carruthers, . the
ran . • . l , Board of General Purposes and of the
commumcatwn reports ot t 1e
•
.
_
d
t
if
\Vorkincrs were submitted and ,tpprove ·
cl
I
Gran
nspec or <
"'
• •
f D 'ember 11 1912
Th regular Quarterly Commumcation o
cc
·. E ' 11
'.
e .
h Most VVorshipful Brother, His
xce enq
was presided over by t e. . t.
the Crane! Master subAt tlus co111rn11111ca ton,
,
! Cl 1 i d
Lon
ie ms or .
. . . f . l h.. ffi ial activities since the last
mittcd an address, settmg 01t1 Is o c. . .
. .
. . . . 'tccount oi his v1s1tat10ns, etc.
comm11mcat10n. g1vmg ,m '
intcre,tiiw report at this
1 an
The Board of Benevolence mace
. , ,.,
time.
. ·
f !\larch 5 1913 was
re nlar Quarterly Co111mumcat1011 o -·
,
·-f d
The
g
.
.
. , bY His Excellency Lord Chelm, or '
presided over for the l<1st timc: · t
to his home in England.
l
that he is about to re urn '
for t le reason '
I . I1 l
enders at tlfr; communication, he states
In the report w 11c ie r
· '
• e 'lt Guyra and the other
that he issued warrants for two Lm1gcs, 011 '
' '
at Manila.
He also reports that in accordance with the authorization, previously granted, the Masonic hall premises at Sydney have been purchased.

106

REPORT ON

CORRJ~SPONDENCK

At this commu11ica!io11 the retiring Crand :\laster was presented
with an illuminated address, hearing !he Coat of .\ nns of the Grand
Master in gold. This presentation was made hy Deputy Grand l\Iaster
Brother Carruthers, and a 1itting response was made bv the Grand
l\Iaster.
.
A Special Communicatinn was held in :\Iasonic hall at Sydney,
June 10, 1913, at which Deputy Crand Master Carruthers presided.
At this time nominations for Cram! Lodge Officers were made, etc.,
and at the rcgl'larly Quarterly Communication held 011 June 11, the
following clay, the reports of the various boards and officers were
rendered and the annual election took place, at which Dr. C. U.
Carruthers of Sydney was elected Crand :\laster.
The jurisdiction of l'\ cw South \Vales takes rank with the best
and strongest jurisdictiuns in the world, the total membership at this
time being 18,728. a gain of more than 1,200 01·cr the preceding year.
There arc 241 actin· Lodges.
The various funds under control of the Grand Lodge show an
aggregate of nearly $400,000.
The Australian Crancl Lodges arc known for their splcndi(l business
methods, and few .\mnican Cr~rncl Lodges show better business ability.
There is a Report 011 Foreign Correspondence submitted by
Brother S. Scott-Young, Chairman.
I-le reports having rC\·icwed 1ifty-fonr of the Proceedings of other
jurisdictions, and comTys his hearty wishes for the prosperity and
continued progress of the Crancl Lodges they represent.
California, 1912, receives brief though favorable notice, attention
being particnlarly calkcl to the splendid l\Iasonic charities in this
jurisdiction.
TT. BR.\Y, Cram! Secretary, Sydney.
DH. C. U. CARRl'Tl!1'!<S, Crancl l\Ias!er, Sydney.

1\RTl!l'R

NEW YORK.

1914.

The opening pages of this volume of Proceedings are adorned
by beautifully executed steel engravings of two who have been eminent
in New • York :\! asonry, to wit: Cadwallader Holden and A. H.
Robertson.
The One H t•nclrccl and Thirty-thin! Annual Communication of the
Crand Lodge of Free and 1\cceptecl l\lasons of the State of l\ew York
was opened in the Crand Lodge room, Masonic Hall, city of New
York, on the afternoon of l\lay 5, 1\. D. 1914, A. L. 5914, at two
o'clock, Grand :\Taster Charles Smith presiding.
The Most \Vorshipful Crancl Master Charles Smith opens his
annual address as follows :
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

107

The ceaseless tligh! of Time has brought us under the protecting care ancl guidance of Almighty Goel to the One Hundred and Thirt1·-thirrl Annual Session of the Grand Lodge, to
re1·iew the work which has engaged our attention, and to adopt
such measures as may be advantageous to continue that work
in the future. Creat activity has characterized all the Lodges,
and a delightful degree of harmony is everywhere manifested
by all thc Brethren. Extcmive journeyings have enabled me to
visit every portion of the State to meet the brethren in their
own Lodge rooms, ancl I liavc becn greatly impressed and stimulated in the prosecution of the work to which T have devoted
my time !Jy the spirit of genuine fraternity which prevails in
the Craft. ancl by the encouragement givrn me by the thousands
whom it has been my privilege to take liy the hand. I have indee<l found that our Craft is animated by the paramount desire
of who can Iic·st work and best agree. Ami yet in this sweet
S()ng of harnion,· then· is a minor chord of sadness. A startling
numl:er whom l met when my journeyings began have crossed
the Crcat Divide. The tirst thought of the Ccncral Assembly
should be gin·n to the memory of our departed brethren.

1-l e feelingly recounts the distinguished members of the fraternity
who had during the preceding year been callee! to their reward.
.\ large nurnbcr of ceremonies were held within the year by the
Crim cl Lodge (the Grand l\Iaster officiating, with assistance by certain
distinguished .i\Iasons), for the purpose of laying cornerstones, dedicating :\fasonic halls, etc.
Dispensations were issuecl for thc establishment of eleven new
Lodges.
The .i\fasonic Home is referred to as the one great object of the
charitalilc consideration of the Grand Lodge, and the hope is expressed that at an early elate, after certain financial obligations of the
Grand Lodge have been taken care of, the work of improvement and
enlargement of the Home at Utica may be proceeded with.
The Committee on J urisprmknce that had under consideration the
proposition emanating from the Grand Lodge of Oregon, looking to
the establishment of a Cencral or Supreme Grand Lodge for North
America, made a report, in which we believe practically all American
jurisdictions will concur, in part as follows:
The subject of a General Grand Lodge in Korth America, and
particularly one embraced within the territorial limits of the
United States of America, has been frequently agitated. It was
first presented to this Grand Lodge nearly a hundred years ago;
the brethren who were then in life and active in the affairs of th~
Fraternity gave it much study and consideration, hut, believing
it not to he for our interest. declined to join in the movement.
Their attitude, toi;;cther with that of the larger jurisdictions,
ended the matter for a while, lll't the project has been revived a
number of times since, always with the same result. New York
has consistently hekl to its own sovereignty as an independent
Cran<! Lodge.

108

RbJPORT ON CORRl<JSPOJ\Dl£NCK
Your collllllitlcc :il'l'S no reason why we shoukl recede from that
position, and therefore rccollllllcnd:; that no action be taken in th·~
matter. \Ve arc now suprclllc in all things l\[asonic within the'
borders of the Comlllonwealth of )Jew York. Our authority here
is undisputed, and the brethrC'n direct and control their own
affair:;. To ally ourselves with a Ceneral Grand Lodge, having
jurisdiction over all or a considerable portion of English-speaking
::\ orth America, would be simply to surrender the power and
authority which is now ours, into thC' keeping of those who
would necessarily h,t \'e \mt little appreciation of onr local conditions and needs. Such action wouhl ka\'e us fettered where we
now arc free.
There arc other reasons for our recomlllcnclation, which need
not be adverted to. bccau:;e your committee feels that the real
and great ohjeclion to this proposed union is fouml in the fact
that it would necessarily encl our freedom and independence.

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by a committee of which
:\lost \Vorshipful \Villiam Sherer is Chairman. Tt consists of the
usual condensed reviews of various Alllerican and ForC'ign jurisdictions.
California, 1913, is fraternally considered.
Acting upon the favorable report of tlw committee, fraternal
recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge oi Queensland, also to
the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands. The request of the Grand
Lodge of Panama for consideration \vas dcfrrrccl until further data and
other information can lie obtained; and the request for recognition of
the Grand Lodge of Uraguay was denied bccallSe the request did not
originate from a Body ha \'ing j mi:; diction over symbolic l\T asonry.
CEORGI' FR1\IFJ\Lll, Cram! l\Iastcr, Brooklyn.
E1rn·ARD l\f. L. Em.1\J{S, Grand Secretary, New York.
NEW ZEALAND.

1913.
The Twenty-fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
K cw Zealand was held at Auckland, J\Iay 14 and 15, 1913, M." · W." ·
Brother Maurice Thompson, Grand l\Iaster, presiding.
The session opened with a large attendance and the usual annual
business was transacted.
The jurisdiction of New Zealand is prosperous and thrifty. It has
193 active Lodges with an aggregate membership of nearly 13,000.
A proposition was advanced that the Grand :\faster be elected
biennially, hut failed of adoption. It was decided that the future communications of the Grand Lodge be held in \V cllington, instead of
meeting in different places as heretofore.
The most far-reaching matter considered and adopted was a memorandum of agreement between the Grand Lodge of Kew Zealand and

l

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

109

the Grand Lodge of Scotland, by which the latter Grand Lodge recognizes the full sovereignty and independence of K cw Zealand. Scotland
is loathe to yield territory or concede the right of her subordinate
Lodges to organize into independent Grand Lodges, and it has always
been the practice of Scotland to refuse recognition to these newly
formed Grand Lodges until her opposition became in a sense absurd and
ridiculous, and it is only after these newly formed Grand Lodges acquire sovereignty by prescription, as it were, that Scotland finally yields
consent.
This is practically the case of New Zealand, and there is very little
virtue in Scotland agreeing to recognize N cw Zealand after that j urisdiction had acquired a sufficient standing to laugh Scotland in the face.
The Report on Correspondence is by l\I.". \V.". Brother Alfred H.
Burton, Past Grand :\faster.
Bro'ther Burton in his introduction refers to the large American
Lodges, particularly Palestine Lodge in Detroit, Michigan, and certain
other Michigan Lodges. and wonders if these Lodges arc organized for
the purpose of exemplifying Symbolic l\Iasonry or are simply used as
an "avenue to lead the unwary to a something which is not Ancient
Freemasonry at all, but is just perhaps a theological excrescence."
Brother Burton possibly fails to comprehend the fact that in
America things are done in a large way and that it is characteristically
American to bore with a big augur, and that these large Lodges arc
just as truly l\Iasonic as the smaller ones, and arc not used simply as
a gateway into the so-called higher degrees.
Brother Burton in his report reviews California, 1912, with intelligent judgment and has favorable comment for practically all that California did l\Iasonically in the preceding year.
M.". w:. BRO. l\L\uRICE THOMPSON, of Tnvercargill, Grand l\fastcr.
MALCOLM N1ccoL, Duneclin, Crane! Secretary.
NORTH CAROLINA.

1914.
The fron!i:;piece of !he Hook of Proceedings, 1914, is an excellent
portrait of the newly-ekctC'd Crand l\laster John T. Alderman.
The Cram! Lodge of Ancient, Pree and i\cceptecl l\Iasons of North
Carolina convened in its One 1-1 undred and Twenty-seventh Annual
Communication in the hall of the Masonic Temple, in the city of
Raleigh, on Tuesday evening, J annary 13, 1914, at 7 :30 o'clock, and
was opened in Ample Form, Grand Master F. l\·I. Winchester presiding.
After a few introductory remarks, Grand l\Iaster vVinchcster enters
upon the section of the address devoted to necrology, and feelingly
refers to the han·est of the Grim Reaper in the ranks of Masons

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

throughout the world, with. fitting allusions to their services and
character.
The Grand Master states that Masonry has never been ,;o prosperous in North Carolina as at the present time.
This may be judged in part from the fact that not less than nine
new Lodges received dispem;atiom. and also because a verv sui>stantial
increase in membership took place, whereby not less than 2J,OOO l\fasons
in good standing are now carried upon the rolls of X orth Carolina
Masons.
He reports only one decision. and that of a local nature. in the vear.
He refers with pleasure to the good reports received from the. Oxford Ophanage, the most prominent institution, perhaps. of its kind
connected with ;,\Iasonry in the United States. The oq)hanage shelters
at this time 389 little ones, and the institution, heing in a
statt"
institution, and non-sectarian, receives partial support by appropriations
from the State government. although the management is practically
in the hands of the l\fasonic Fraternity.
He also speaks with a glow of pride of the '.'\ orth Carolina
Masonic and Eastern Star Home. This institution is eYidcntlv fulfilling in a satisfactory measure its function of benevolence and. good
will and promises even greater things for the future.
An oration upon the mission and influence of l\lasonrv was delivered by Grand Orator Brother \V. H. Love, amt upon m«ition, duly
made and seconded, the thanks of the Grand Lodge were extended
to Brother Lo1·e and the oration was ordered printed in foll in the.
Proceedings.
The afternoon of the second day was devote<! largely to memorial
addresses to the memory of certain eminent ::\fasons in the jurisdiction, who had passed onward within the yvar.
.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is hy l\Iost V\,'orshipful
John A. Collins, Past Grand Master. He approvingly refer:: in his
introductory remarks. to conferences which have heretofore hecn held
of Past Grand Masters. \Vt: differ with him as to the ·wisdom
these meetings, although concede that his judgment may be as )!ood,
or better, than 011r own. We, however, foil to disco\·er what particular
good can result from these annual so-called "confercncc;o." and believe
we can see how the tendency may he distinctly adverse to certain
Masonic landmarks, one in particular being that each Grand Lodge is
sovereign in itself in all respects, and tl1at whenever any part of this
sovereignty is surrendered, by that very act it disqualifies itself as an
independent and rnvercign Grand Lodge; and we believe, openly or
covertly. the influence of these annual meetings is to promote something in the nature of a General Grand Lodge. possessing certain
legislative powers. and if this is not the purpose of these conferences,
what good can ;trisc from getting together year after yc<ir and grinding

01·cr the same old platitudes and reiterating the same old "recommendations" that have been iterated and reiterated in every one of
these meetings. yet always coupled with a disclaimer that no legislative
power is asked for, and nothing looking toward a Supreme or General
Grand Lodge is thought of? "Methinks she doth protest too much."
In our opinion, these meetings cannot result in any possible good,
and their influence, if they have any at all, is the opposite of beneticial.
_In Brother Collins' report for the current year California fails
' to find a place.

___________ ____

,,...

111

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

110

.;._

._~,-

C

JoH N

T. ALllJifDL\K, Grand ::\faster, Henderson.

]oHN C. DRI\Wiff. Crand Secretary, Raleigh.

NORTH DAKOTA.

1913.

The frontispiece of the volnme of Proceedings is a portrait of the
;,1 ost vV orshipfnl vVilliam E. Hoover, Grand Master.
The biographical sketch of Brother Hoover states that he has
been engaged in educational work all his life. From his portrait, we
wonld conclude. in the absence of any information on the subject,
that he helongcd to the ministerial profession.
The Twcnty-fonrth Annual Commnnication of the Crand Lodge_
.\.'. F & ,\.'. ]\].'.· of the State of North Dakota was opened at
10 a. m .. in the line new ;,\fasonic Tcmpk at the city of Birn1arck,
on Tuesday. ] unc 24th. and continued in session until S p. m. Vv cdnesday. ] une 25. A. D. 1913.. A. L. 5913, Grand Master William E.
H oovcr presiding.
Brother Hom· er reports a year of growth and prosperity, and
withal a marked measure of activity in the matter of Grand Lodge
functions.
The Lodges that received charters at the preceding Annual Cornmnnication. four or !Ive in number, were duly constituted. and dispensation was issued to form one new Lodge.
A cornerstone ceremony of more than ordinary importance took
place in connection with the Masonic Temple under construction, by
Corinthian Lodge :\ o. 78, at Cah·in. The earnestness and zeal of the
11rdhrc11 of that Lmlge w:1s commcnted upon by the Gram! 1\IastC'r, and
his helicf, freely expressed. that a career of future growth and nscfnl··
ness was vouchsafed lo that splendid Lodge.
One or two decisions of a purely local nature were rendered and
nnmcrons recommendations made, some of which were approved by
the Grand Lodge, and some were not.
.\n excellent financial condition is disclosed in the reports of the
Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer; and the Grand Secretary \Valter

112

Rl~PORT

ON CORRESPOXDJ<;NCE.

L. Stockwell in hi,.; reports. refers with evident pleasure to the
numcro11s Yisitations to Lodges which h<' was cnahkd to make within
the year.
A Yery interesting and withal informing report by the Committee
on Sanitation for Tuberculosis was made hy the committee appointed
for that purpose.
There is a report by :\Iost \Vorshipful Brother Grant S. Hagar under
the head of "Cuod of the Order" touching the employment of women
in the so-callcll gainful occupations, with especial rcicn:ncc to the
need of a minimum \1·agc for women workers. The address. we arc
told. was Ji:;(cncd to with k<ccn interest a!l(l recciYcd most hearty
approya]. and was onh-red printed in the Proceedings.
;..;orlh Dakota
quilt: given to i11110,·ations of this character. one
of which i,; the Crand Oratorical Contest participated in by hoys
selected from the high schools of the State.
The present membership of the jurio.;diction is
in excess
of 9,000, showing a snhstantial g;iin over the preceding year.
Fraternal recognition \ms cxt('IHkd to the Cr:tnd Lmlgc of the
Philippine I slamls.
Thr thlrnl annual appropriation of $100 to the \Vashington l\•fasonic
Xational ,\Icmorial was votccL
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
James \V Foky. the same hcing his fourth annual production.
California, 1912, received friendly and favorable consideration with
extensive quotations from the reports of the Grand ]\faster, Grand
Lecturer and certain committees.

\VALTtR L. \Vn.LLHrsox, Grand .'.\faster, Lisl1on.
\VAr:rtR L. STOCKWELL, (~rand Sc:crctary, Fargo.
NOVA SCOTIA.

1913.
The Forty-( ighth .\nnual Communication of the Most \Vorshipfol
Crand Lodge of Ancient. Free aml ;\ccepted ?\Tasons of Nova Scotia
\\·:u; held in the Parish Hall of Christ Chnrch. in the town of Amherst,
beginning; ten o'clock in the forenoon of \V cclnesday, the 11th clay of
June, A. D. 1913, A. L. 5913, Grand ]\faster Wm. Medford Christie
presiding.
After the formal opening, the Grand Lotlge was formed in procession and marched to St. Stephen's Presbyterian Church, where
Divine services were cti11ductcd by the Grand Chaplain. This is a
system, we believe, peculiar to N o\·a Scotia. After Divine service, the
members of the Grand Lodge returned to the hall, where a formal
address of welcome was delh·crcd by Past Grand Master Charles R.
Smith, respornlcd to hy Crane! Master Christi<:.
0

H.l:JPORT OX COHRESPO:\'DENCL:J.

lHl

'rhc Cram! J\Lts1er. we learn from ;1 1wn1sal ,,f his report, per~
formed in a \'cry satisfactory marnicr his high functions during the
vear. He visited sixteen s11bon\i11atc Lmlgcs in the year; he dedicated
three Masonic halls, besides performing other duties. He refers with
a great deal of pride to the .'.\Ia sonic llome of ::\om Scotia, which
he says. "is clear above all things else to the hearts of Masons of
::\m-;1 $cotia."' He says:
I now approach the
which
all others, is dear
to the heart of .\lasons, our
lomc" iur agnl
their wiYe>
;rnd the widow,_; oi I\lasom. I trn:;t that some day we may bl.' able
to add to that designatiun, "the orplHn children of J\[asons." This
.. Home'' h;ts pn!l·cd all that its most ;1nknt a<h·ocatcs hotle<l for.
Those brethren who so cntlmsiastically am! forcibly advocated
the establishment nf the '"I lome"' and are present today to hear the:
;1ccou11t of iio; prcsc'nt cqt1ipmc11t. must glow with satisfaction
that the prnmiscs of hy-gone days lia1·c hec'n fully realized, and
that now in the Province of ::\ova Scotia, onr belm·cd Order
has an cstablish111cnt thorm1ghly
for the care and comfort
uf those who are placed under
roof, where the
deserving
brethren. who. on account of their
causes, arc
compelled
l::ty down the working
of life, and who are
without a
or without anyone to support them can end their
days in peace, comfort all(! hap1Jiness. Such a "Home" we have,
and I am sure that 1
v01c111g the sentiments of all brother
.:\Iasons in this
when t say tha1 we arc prnnd of
our "Home."
Telegrams of
and congrat111ation from this Grand Lodge
were dispatched to the following Crarnl Lodges, then in session. viz.:
l\lanitoba, !\ evada, New ;\kxico. Oregon, V crmont and \Vashington.
Tlwre are seventy-! wo Lotlges in this j ttrisdiction, an aggregate
membership of 6,525, a ;,light gain in membership OYcr the preceding
year being recorded.
Brother Thomas .:\lowbray submits his thirteenth report on Correspondence, and we quote from his introduction, as follows:

In the rapid flight of time another ,\fasonic year has glided
into infinite space, and once more it becomes my pleasant duty to
present the Report on Correspondence, the thirteenth I have
had the honor of presenting to Grand Lodge.
Looking beyond 011r somewhat limited borders it is again a
source of gratilication to note that Freemasonry, the world over,
is steadih- advancing, while the sublime principles of the Order
arc being nphelcl which, of necessity. mnst l_)e mo~t ~rat!fying to
cverv well-wisher of onr venerable and chcnshed mstltut1on.
In onr own jnrisdiction tl1e progress and advancement which
have been so marked dnring the
few years still continnes.
And while onr numerical increase
in every way heen most
satisfactory we ha\·e the ycrv best of reasons for believing that
"quality, 1ic;t quantity," has iicen, as it shonld he, the first aim
of the constituent Lodges.
Both at home and ahrnad the principles of Masonic charity,
that noble hasis
our grand snprrstrncture, abounds and now

lH.

Rl~PORT

ON CORRESPONDliJNCE.

probably more than c1·cr before do the mcmhcrs fulfill and
nnt that part of their (luty which calls upon them "to aid
.m>sist.'' Surely we are lil'ing in a splendid ag<' for the pronmlgation of tlw snhlimc principks of Freemasonry. as we arc
ccrt;1i11ly living in ;1 most progressive age of the world's history.
The important q11estin11 of recognition of foreign Grand
Lmlges is
as it j m•tly d<·sen-cs, a good deal of consideration. hut np to
present no uniform basis has been established upon which recognition should he gr<mted or refused.
To us it has always appeared rather un-lVfasonic, if not to
;;;iy inconsistent, that a Crnnd Lodge.
with which we arc in
frnt0rnal relations shonld recognize a
Grand Lodge which
we, for presumably good and sufficient reasons, have refused to
recognize. However, we suppose until uniform system is agreed
npon this state of affairs cannot yery well be remedied.
Another mattc•r which has received some attention of late is
the so-calkrl infringement by Grand Lodges upon the rights and
pril'ilege;.; oi snhordinatc Lodge'.'. And we arc far from sayin)!;
that in some jurisdictions, at kast, there is not r<:asonahle ground
for the complaint. Subordinate Lodges, very rightly it seems to
us_, arc jcaln11s of "·hat they consider their just rights. and to
that harmony which should always prevail, these should
rc,;1wctcd. ,\;; a matter of conrsc, Grand Lodge has, <ls it has
a right to have, a general oversight <wcr its constituent Lodges.
which is proper hnt it is far from wise to interfere or inirin::;c
too mnch. So
as we arc aware our own Grand Lodge has
not been much of a transgressor in this respect in the past, arnl.
in view of recent developments, it is not at all likdy it will he
in the futnrc.
It is once more a pleasure to state that our relations with ;di
the Grand Lodges with which we hold fraternal rdations continue
most cordial, whik nothing has ariS<'n within our own j ~Tis(liction
to mar that peace and harmony which should ever pn·1·aiL
California. 1912, is cotmteously considcrctl.
\V1L1.l.\M }l;:nro1rn C1uusT1E. Crnntl .r-Ltsrcr, \\'indsor.
T110\1,1~ }low1mA Y, Crand Sccrdary, Halifax.
OHIO.

1913.
The frontispiece nf the volume is ;:n cxcclknt portrait nf Most
\Vorshipfol Hrothn Charles J. Pretzm;in, the newly-elected Crand
}faster.
At 9 :30 a. m., \Vcdnesday, October 22, 1913. the Grand Lodge of
the :\.fast Ancirnt and Honorable Fraternity of FreL' and Accepted
Ma sons was escorted by 'Yit. Vernon Commander,- No. 1. Knights
Templars arnl a number of brethren of the local Lodges to the auditorium of the new Masonic Temple in Columbus. Ohio, and convcnetl in
its One Hundred and Fourth Annual Grand Communication. Edwin ~.
Griffiths, Gr;lnd l\lastcr, presiding.
'\umber of Lodges in the jurisdiction, 526;
'\ nmbcr rqircscntt'd at the Annual Communication, 526;

JI,)

Lea\·ing· on1y tvn \\·ill1•:ut 1 cprt':-c11Ldiu1 1.
Thi ..;
ccrtalnl,:1111~··tlii11g ul ;1 rccnrd.
4

}frrnlicr,;hip in !lw ji;risdidillll, ')0,Wc(1: g;ii11, 4.173.
Immediately ;t itt-r I he opening ;c telegram of congrntnlation was
forwarded to the Cr;111d Lnll;2y of 1-;,·n1acky. then in session at Louisville, and in due COI\l'sc :1 rd11r11 \1·irc of felicitation came back from
the Cr;im] }laster o! I(cntucky.
In his annn;d address, Crand }!ast<'r Criffiths reports hal'ing
granted dispe11s;1tin11" to forrn six new L0tlgcs. l lc dedicate(! urnle.r
::\fasonic auspices ten lK'\\' Ledge halls 1Yithi11 the year, and placed
cnr11erstm1cs t.1 thirteen vuhlic
The Crand }Jastn cmiiodicd it1 his adrlrcs.; a report rclatin: to
th<: Uhio flood :rnd conccrni11g this dis:u;tcr at1d the n:iturc of the
:ti(\ of the s11ffcrns in C0111ll:Ction therewith, the Grand
to my appeal and the
of the other
\Vere n1o::;t gC'nerous.
Crand Juriscamc 1·o om· aid iu :1 most gC'nerons and satisfactor1·
manner. ;;howin,'-l the interest. the love.
the adherence of ott-r
fellow-mcmLcrs all on-r the world in
readiness to contribute
for the aid of tl1cir di,tn•sscd brethren
a result of this dis:tstrous catastrophe.
The committee took. up llH' work of relief at once.
rnan 11;1111111g Hro. 1\:oh1nso11 L(1Ck:(', Secrctar\',
at
to the llood·clricken cities. The lircthren at
and kindly offered to look after the Ohio
ci:,t to and including the city oi J\Iarietta; also
of Hamilton. Their work was most thorough.
\\·ere _formed at Dayton, ZancsYille, Piqua, Troy,
and, in fact, at ~11 pomts where there hacl been floods.
Jn th~, city of Columbtts the .
have made an enviable
record.
I hey opened the bcaut1fol
"fed the hungry.
the naked, and bound 11p the
of the affiicted "
no less than 5,000 homeless. hungry people we1:e
work was done
the :\Iasons of that citv
.
. C01!1mittcc
a dollar. Onr effor(s
to contnlmtc to th1.s rchd brought the response, "Help others;
we arc ahlc and w1llrng· to care tor onr
people," notwithhnndrcds.
lhousands, of
own people were
and hungry.
came into the lnrnls of the co:nrnittcc S31,100.43
from Ohin, and $63,024.49 fron1
jnrisdictions, aggregating

$94,124.92.

That California in connc:ction with the relief work transacted at
the time .of the great earthquake and lire here in 1906, set a good
example m returning the unused portion of contributions
fairlv
he cnnclndcd from tbc closing paragraph of Grand Master Griffith~'
report concerning the disposition of the ei1uscd portion of contributions
for the Ohio flood snffeffrs.

116
REPORT OX CORR:BJSPOXDEXCE.

117

This i,; wliat he say,;:
I liclicYc it lo he· nur dnt 1. a ftcr a r1·:1s011ahk lime :1rnl af!C'r
the cummittce i0 ;i,,;u1-c<l that- nu further demand,; will he mack
upon it to c-arc· for ,ickne,,;
e<ill,;('d bv lhc
tn
return pro rat a to on r si,;tcr
all m;mcy kft
the
hamb of the committee.
From the ccmclusion of Cram\ :\laster (~riffiths' spkn<li<l address,
close thl· followi1w:. irnlicalil'<.c oi hio conception
the high and
c-;;altcd ch:1ractcr nf the ]\'lasonic ;;pirit:
\\T

And thnc is another
that can not he told in words. 1t
the glory of our
Craft that, though the corporate
cf the Crand and Constitm·nt Bodies
be re;umals and kept through the years
public
arc performed in unqnid. unheralded,
unchronicled w pnhlic
fame, lmt ne\'<:rtlwkss constituting lasting history because such
\\'Orks are horn of the di\·inc in man and nrvcr. nc1Tr, neyer die.
The record may he \\'ritten of prompt and ·effective J'vlasonic
n:lid. 1111stmtingly poun.:d out with ('<tgcr
and generous liberality in times of great disaster
imminent need
si:ch as
called to us during this year. But what story can
he toll! of
charit1· 1"hich. daih· aml hourlY. in cvcrv citY,
village, and hamlet of o\ir 'stall', enters the ahc(Ic d the- poo;-,
the wail of a child in hunger, n·gards the
a mother
secs the
of a strong 111a11
hour of
and feeds
starving, succors the
helps,
am! strengthens the
It is
the arid\1·astc of
joy and yet leans no record except for him
the fragrance and bcanty of the roses, feds
real zeorks of

bcc11 there.
Fraternal recognition was cxtcmkd to the Crand Lodge of Porto
Rico and abi to the Grauel LodgL' of the Philippine bbmls, and recognition wa.-< denied to a Cram! Lodge of the Republic of San Salvador.
The Report 011 Foreign Corn·spondcnce is again prepared hy
Xelsun \.Villiams. Pac;t Grand Master, wherein California. 1912, finds a
place.
l lc yoiccs our S<'ntimcnts e;;actly in connection with the so-called
amrnal conference of Cram! Masters, in the following paragraph qnotcd

from his conclusion:
the fact that for at least two humlred vears
thrive(\ without any central gove~ning
Crand Lodgc, or a Supreme Grand
of the world. and has during all that time prospered under
the
that every Crnnd Lodge is sovereign ;me! sttpreme
within its ,)wn
yd ! here arc those todav who
to believe that
· come when all of this shonhl he
changed, and onr
shonlcl surrender
srivcreig11ty, or at lca'St

Body.

The 11ll'll hack of this 11111\·emcnt han: strongly
it is
their purpose· to c,tahli,-h a Xatii>nal Gram! Lorlgc-, hut the Graml

Lodge of Oregon at its
clearly the n!timate
the orga111zat1011 of som"'

.·\mrnal Grand Comnrnnication sl;owcd
of the lirdhreu who arc advocating
g<wcrning Bodv. Of course.
they say that the yurposc
simply to enable ·n:present;itives
frnm the van<;ius (,ranrl Lodg_es to_ meet together to exchange
views and decide
the t•111form1tv of laws ;rnd other things
:1bout wluch there
at present some difference of opinion, but this
1s about all that
Supreme Grand
could do. If such Bodv
had no riµht to legislate. then its action would not
hindin~
~ipon the Grand Lodges. and if it had the right to
the; 1
1t would be~ ;~ Supreme Grand Lodge.
\.V c do not
that
there is sufhcicnt sentiment preyailing
Grand Lodges
of
m7rld to enable the few who are
this scheme
to carry 1t to a consummation.
\Ve also arc in hearty accord with him concerning the :\fasonic
I fome feature of :'.\fasonic charity and we quote upon this subject from
his conclusion as follows:
\Ve arc sorry to see in a few jurisdictions the manifestation
of a J;itter opposition to Masonic Homes, and we cannot hut
feel that tJ1cse ohjcctors
do not know what they are writing
almot. We cannot question
sincerity, but vet their views ar~'
so
OpTJositc to the
we are having· in Ohio that
it
_ to the conclusion
they have not fully investigated
the suh1ect of l\faso111c H omc>. It hns nc\·cr hcen conte·nded lw
ai1y one who was fully ;idyised that the establishment of ·Masonic
l fomcs is the
economical plan of carimt for the aged ;ind
mfirm '.lfasons.
wives ancl the
children of Masons. b11t
we submit that in a work of this
the central
shoulcl
not be
but home and in influences. Tt
suggested
some
those
to '.\Lisonic IIomes that the hctter
plan is
find homes
families for
orphan children

:if _

with private

for the care of

wives : lmt after an honest effort
of the Ohio ~fasonic Home have
found it
to locate the children committed to th('ir
c;11·c 111 good
homes of :'.\Jasons. aml it would be almost impo,;siHc to
home" in pri\·atc families for our old men ;:rnd
all right to talk of priYate-homc life am! the
a_ foster-mother's care. hut a knowledge acquired h1·
ot the law for more than a third of a centurv lead,;
conclnsion that the influences of many vrivatc- honws
present tn11e do not conclucc to the making of good men
and women. Tn onr Masonic l lornc the noblest ;rnd best influences
;ire constantly thrown ahont the inmates.
The attention of
those in
is ccmstantly directed toward the physical, mental.
moral and
development of the inmates. and while th<::
,,Jc! ones an: taught resignation to the inllrmitics of aclvancing
the children arc taught not only to be g-ood
and girls.
tu rnn~c dar be Rnud men and wonwn, and in
to this,
they arc J!Hc<) hy
nwnt:1l traini11g for the
of life.
Of course. 1t is
add that no Grand Lmlge should consider the q11cstic111 of
a l\Iasonic Honw until it has ample
funds in hand, or in
to clo so.
ln(lrgent
along this

CH.\s. J. PRETnrAN, Crane] :\faster, Cnlumlms.
J H. BRn~r\YELL, Grand Secretary, Cincinnati.

119

118
OKLAHOMA.

1914.
The Sixth Annual Commnnicatiun of thl' Crand Lrnlgl' of Okla·
homa was held at Mc\lcster 011 the 11th and 12th of February. 1914.
"\11mlier uf Lo(h!es, 425. :\[,·ml:crs11ip, 25.332. Cain, 793.
.\ pict11rl's ,,f :\lu't \Vorshipful \Villiam p,.1T\' Frc('lllan adorns
the fr011t pag'· of the Procccdi11g:.;.
':\ t·n~:_·ron~ cnK•rg•:llt con1nH111lcatin11::: \\"<:rt_' held \\'ithi11 the yc;~r,
there being n(:t k·~s than ten co1n:n11nk:11ions (if ihi~ character.
Tn the opening portir111 of his ;1ddn·ss, the Cram! :\faster has thio
l<> say. touching the gniwth of :'dasonry. whic'1 when rapid is suhjcc'
t"' the danger
the cffort of improper material to gain admission. and
to tlw necessity of eternal ,-igilanc<: to prcs1•n·1· the :1igh character nf
:\lasonic mcmhcrsl1ip.
The Cram] Master

T am pleased to state th;1t we have
hlcsscd with peace
and har111n111· during this co11tim10t1s
of prosperity. a1J(l
\\·bile questions of imnurt:mcc
Tustitution h;ll'c l1cc11
agitated :ind discussed. Yd the
han; 11cc11 witl1
natin11 and th:1· han• licTn sctlk(l in a true l.Tasnnic
frd. th·rdnre. ·that it
cminrntly proper at the hcg-inning of
"1'1' delilicralin1i> to return thanks to \lmid1tv Cod who r11ks
1rnd
all thi11g:;. not onh· f·ir our
and prnspN'it1·.
l1ut
the pri1·ilecrc of
here
the considera·
tinn
the wdf:ir,· nf :his
and
Institution.
1111'1 kt us hope kr its cnntin11atin11 in a!! the inturc.
The general
Marnnn- has induced many t;,
for
am!
of rncmlwrship in thi!' Grand
h<is heen grcatl:-·
more dt•rin()' tl1c
that: am· one
feel this a" s11hcorn:T11t111atin11.
nausc anrl in·
"I !;is th:·
Tirothrri t made our
n:orc
Jl()11rishmc11t in the ln1mrr,·. rdrc·slm1ent
cn111 fnrt to tl1c ;1ff1ictcc1 '".
lt bis hccn well said: "Thc1· mistake the natnre nf th·
:'ll:1•'<111ic Tnstitntinn ,,-Jin estimate its strcnl!th i11·
,. lff
k11c1 th of t l'c roll
1ff which either the one or the other
is to h• dd('rn1inc·(l. lt,; sln'11Qtlt is in its principles and its pr1Fpcrily icz with th· ck1ractcr ,,f its 111c111hcrs.''
The Crarnl .\l:cs:"r rq1urh ha1·i11;..; aikmkd the conkrcncc of
Cr:ind :'d a,;kr' lh·ld at I11di:u1::p<>lis. Lil<c ni::st of tll"sc· \\'hn attend
;t111H1~tl c1;11fcrvl'il't'~. iltl')' go :l\r;ty infected with thv idt•a 'that
tl:t·:--v CtHlfL'rencv~; :trc in thc:ri:-;ch·c:...; an cxcclknt tlti11g.
Tic \\'ritcr ni this report has never lH•sitatcd to express l1is
l l~;i! 110 '\f;1~nnic gnod r;1n con1c ont pf thl'sc aunu:tl
af1«11-,l a plns;"1'. jnnkct inr the delegates, the expenses

;;_:-; a ruk, liy 11ie jnr1;.,dic!ln11;; which tlwy reprc:-:l'nt, hut :~~idt• fr111n
timl' ;.;oci:dl.1. """ c11n1111l 1111<krstawl hnw thc
h, 11c!.d1:d, ;111d \u' :trc -..:.urc 1h;i1 no µ:outl

rc:mhs to the
( ;nnd l,0<l;,:c<
The fact th;tt only 1j fteen ( ;r;md
\1-cre
thL' la:'t conference at l mli:111;1polis may he ;1cccpt1d as pretty
eddencc th::t the .~\meric:111 Cram! Lr.<lgcs
a rnk. dn not approve
of this annual cnnfcrcncC' idea.
Jn rcfrn·11cc lo the wnrk of the Cr:;ncl :\Iastc•r within the year.
he mentions that all of the nine Ln<lgc:; which 1'L'C<'i1Td ,-harters at the
preceding "\mmal Conmmnic:1!in11 were duly constituted hy deputies
appointed liy him for that pnrpos~.
'\im· dispensations were
hy him within the )'('<Ir \'1 iorm
11cw Lodges and nmuerons di,pc·11satin11s for spcci;il 1111rposc.->.
I le appointi.:d deputies tu lay. in 11is hchali. corncn;to11es to ninC'
di ffercn t 1111 hlic buildings.
1 lc rcporh sn·cpl n11i;1g''· or so~callcil dccisim1s upon matters of
a pt:rcly local 11:it111T. ancl set' f•Jr':h a m1111hcr of rccomm-.·mlations,
some of \\'hich were adopt("], and some were ntit.
I le
the c>:crllent plan in co1111cction with visitations oi
holding a series of com·cntinns or "union :\fosonic meetings," arranged
in localities of a central 11at11n· that would cnahk brethren from a
large nnmbc•r o::' Ln(h(('s within a rcasnnalilc cirdc to a"cmhle anr\
participate.
Hy pursuing this system he was able to con r practically the entire
jurisdiction and afford all :\la;ccns, without scrions i1Kl11l\Tniencc. an
oppurtunity to meet t\K Crarnl '.\Lister personally.
I le speaks in word:.; of higli,·st pn:isc nf the management and con·
trol of the :\Tasimic I ln:m'. ,,-i;ich is an institntion. nf ,,·hich the Grand
Jurisdiction ,.f Ukl:t\10m:t may wdl fed prnnrl.
There is a Report on Corrcspnndcnn: hy Drothcr Thomas Chauncey
11 urnp!Jrc·y, Ct'll'Ci:;ting nf a ycry cornknsc<l st;1tcmcnt nf the Prncel·d ·
ings oi 1111111)' 0f tlic .\mcric:m Cr;u1c1 Lo<lges.
C;tlifornia, hm1·cycr, clocs 110! h11ppe11 to h;n-e a place in the present
yoltmlt"'.

\V }f. I'nrnY FREL\LI". !~rand ~laste:·, Mc.\ lester.
\V11. :'11<>:-'J·>' .\:-.:n::,so-..:, Crarnl Secretary. Okb'.1n111a City.
OREGON.

1914.
Ti1c fronfr,piccc of the volume of Proceedings of 1914
a portrait
of the 1tost \Vorshipful Scptinms S. Spencer, Cram! :\faster.
The Sixty·fonrth ;\111111al Co1111111111ication of the Grand Lodge,
;\ncicnt, Free arnl .\cccptcd :\fasnns of the State of Oregon, ,1·as

120

Rl~PORT 0:\ CORRE:SPO:\Dl~:\'CE.

REPORT OX CORRESPONDE:\CE.

th ~- ('ir;i_11 <l I .-•H!ge
'
roii~11. ·\ l:L">ollk 'r'e1nj>lt.'. cih· of Pllttland.
ll. Fl!4, .\. l,. ~CJ14. ,·, 1 the hour llf
10 "':l.'wk :t. 11i.. (,r;rnd ~l:tsl<'r S. S. Sp1·11n·r prcsidinu
:\ llH' "Occa,ional" <t11<l one SJlc•ci:tl Con11111micatio7; of the Grand
Lodge were hdd within the .,_,\Tar for \"tr'nns
IJ"l'
....
'
!
.
"" I1OS"....:-.
Ujll'lli..'d
,

(JJl

111

1;1c n10nm1g ": J1111e l01h .. \.

•

In the opening
of Jii,•· ·tddrcs..;
th<' ('r~
I '1
•
c.
•
· · •
• ,, 1 H
-' as·.ter rclers
as follow'

to 1 le great American

historical achie\ l'lllCnt at Panama.

. The present year has witnc"cd the practical .
t i'.:'., . the
engmcering frats of 1i 10dern
1\],.\
• c. . d

.'-'tltlll'l·
• .t t mg.

\-c,tc;rn country, and not
the East, where clinntic

.ll1 tt ncncc·

on

of
,,. 1·11
'] ·
.•. , , t ns

from our own
.
l.t1 ti.er to
fr()lll across the 'C", ' ·Tl · . .
. •tre. more sen· re, hut also
:·
. ,.. '" · ,
lb Wt 11 rcsu 1t lll mcrcasccl numbers of
.me! \\ e sho1,Jd he ever mmdf11l (Jt. t] 1 · ·
.
I
't'"""""lllllH
1.
.·1
·
c HH.:reasc( reindil'idual mc1;1l;~~·s.\\l l fall upon 11S as a hrotherhood and as
,\ m1mhcr of so-called decisions were renderer! Ji . ll . ('., I
'f·1··t, t
I.
l
)
JC
.1.tll(
,, • ~: r one ung t 1c con«trnction of local law.
1 hat the idea of a General Cran<! Lmlgc. in the minds of some
:1.t least, lurks hchincl all of the annual mectill''.' or conferences of
(,rand :\J asters. or Past Grand
"'
repre~enting
'"arfr;us Grand
Lodges, may be fairly
- 11 owmg
·
. conclm!A' 1J f rom tl 1c 10
excerpt from
Cram] :'l!:i.stcr Spencer's report:
GF,xEIL\L

GR.\;>,'fJ

LOJlt:E.

.. :ve_. rc.ceiwcl from the Grand ]\faster of the Grand Lod>re of

extended in th,• n·imc of 11 • t (,.. , . I
f
'
.rn
,\ ,l!H
the Grand Lodge of Oregon 'llld
~[1. . . .
rj~T·scntat1ve _to attend a conference of th~ Gr;rnd
l6tl~.tcr, to 1ic w d ll1 the city of St. Louis, May 14th, 15th and
:\l 1".iu11
I odoc to

.•· "

ctn

mv1tat1011
C . I l\l
•rdllC.

. aster o

to rcPast

in lien of dimit in intcrfnrisbear the Grand Lodge seal.
fee when the Lodge does work at the

C<ilifornia not having a representative there, and not knowing what ;iction our California brethren would take regarding
Brother Past Grand Master 'Burnett's circular of last
our representath·es invited them in the name of this
Lodge to hold the next convention of Grand :\fasten< in Port ..
land. providing they do not go to California.
Our representative adds:
"T helicn~ these meetings are
going to prove of incalculahle bcnelit to the Craft. and trust that
they will be continued in the future,'' which sentiment we heartily
appro1'c.
In fut he ranee of this
ohj cct, I recommend that action
he taken at this session of
Grzrnd Lodge anthorizing the incoming Grand :\Ia;;ter
appoint a committee to m<ikc the
arrangements for
the next convention in Portland,
that privilege in favnr of our California hrctlircn in case they
decide to take it np.
From the report we arc satisfied our brethren had a n•ry
pka;;ant trip, and were trc<itc(I
, arnl we finnlv hclievc
that the step has hcen taken that
c\·cntually accomplish mo;;t
excellent results.
As our Past Grand 1\fastcrs E. E. Kifhllc am! T. F. Robinson,
who so ably represented this Grand Lotlgc, as st;ttcd above. did
at their own
T wm·l<I therefore rccommernl th;;t
tliis Cr;111d LndQ;c
prnpcr rdurnl to the hrcthren for the
expense incurred.

.

Fraternal recognition was externlc(I to 1he Crand Lodge of the
Philippine I slancls.
The Grand :\faster states tliat owing to the pn:ss of official care
am! hnsiness matters, he was nnable to visit extcnsin;ly the subordinate
Lodges of his jurisdiction.
From an inspection of the statistical table, we learn that the mpm ..
hership of this jurisdiction at this time is 13,260, a net
of 943
over th<'
:rear.
The Rcoort on Foreign Correspondence liy Dadd P. ).fason is
brief summary of th<' several Crnnd Hotlie,: with which Oregon is in
fraternal correspornkncC', and his work. we doubt not. will prove
;icccptah!C' to the members of his jurisdiction, a;; it undonhtedly is
;;;1tisfactory to the ont;;idc ).[asonic world.
He gives to California generous consideration, noticing partirnlarly
\he ceremonies connectc<l with the dedication of the magnilicent new
Temple in San Francisco.
Complimentary rcfrrcnce is also mark to the oration cklivcred hy
V cry \Vnn;l1ipful William H110tks lfcrv{'y.
\V1t.Lt.\ ).f

C. HR1;;'1'0L, Cran<i i\Tast<:r. Portl;1rnl.

n 1\·1p P. !\1 \~""· Cran<l Secretary. ,\lh:1ny.

I

121

}22

Rl£POHT O:\' CORHl~SPO:\DENCK

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

cl1ari11· there is no excess. neither can angd or man come in
danger by it.

PENNSYLVANIA.

1913.
Tl1c Crand Lodge of Pcnnsykania holds four Qnartc1fr Co111111u11icatio1E cac:1 year. i. c .. in :\larch. June, September and D~ccmhcr. the
principal business of the year licing conducted at the Q11artcrly Commun;calion in Dccc·mJ,cr. althongh the r,:gnlar .\111111al Communication
is hclcl on St.
the fa·angelist Day, December 27th, at which

time the aunu:il ;cddrcsses oi the· outgoing and

Grand :\Tasters

arc rcndcn.. d, aml the ucwly-ckctcd Grand Officer;; installed in their
scn•ral stations.

From the report oi Cr;1nd nfast«r \Villi:1111 L.
WC judge
had hccn one of :\fasonic
cornerstones
were placc(l to at kast six pnlilic buildings; dedications of various
Masonic halls took place': a larg·e nmnbcr of official visitations to
suhonlinate Lodges \\·ere made, four Lodges which received charters
at the preceding Annual Comnnmication were duly constit11tcd; and
a Yast amount of business in connection with appointments, of Masonic
I Jome a ff a ire;, etc .. was transacted.
1i1at the year

The ckct ion of officers is held each year at the December Quarterly
Communication and at this Comnrnnication this year Brother T. Hcnrv
\Villiams was c!C'ctcd Right vV Msl1ipful Grand' ~faster and from hi.s
inaugural address we excerpt, as follows, a few salient thoughts
. . ·The word "sern;'' is the one upnn which stress i.s laid; :rnd
1l is with a keen sense of rcsponsihilitv that I this da\• take up
the ln1:·den. of service; viewed in this' aspect. there
no idea
of. dation m the
of the po\vcr said to hclong to the
office, hut. r:ithcr
as to how tl1c service
hcst
he rernle_rerl to. the
in its work of uplifting
part
of mankrnd wl11ch has
with us.
One of the vital principles of
Fraternitv is tll learn,
comprehend. anrl mHkrstarnl. .sn th;;t we nwy ·in tnrn teach
others.
0111· many adjuncts of ct111cation arc. worthy of onr
scrions consideration.

is

The ya]ne of the Schools of Tnstniction can hardk he estimated in the work pf
the ritualistic nart of our work.
Capa11le and efficient ""''~"r"w' may he had for the asking,
withont monc\· and wit1rnut
Ritualisti,: lc'achini~ is nrv
with 11s, in that we
h:1vc
nor <111 11·« rccognizc nr permit the 1ise of printcd 01·
writlen
11in!1iinrs nr h·1s. (llir wnrk is comm11nic-ate1\
from one tn the othc·r, aml its purity i,; a striking JH««>f of the
cnrr«c1 ncs-; nf our ...:1·stem. '\on" 111:t1· ple:1d i,rnnrnnct' when .so
111:11;y are willing 1u h(•]p nthcrs to acqnirc the w11rk of this juriS··
dict1011.

* * *

123

1'Jw desire of power in excess caused the angels tn fall:
the desire of knowledge in excess caused man to fall; hnt in

* * *

:\[ aso11ic charity has c'\'l'.l' heen a cardinal Yirtne.
From
our earliest records it appears that it consisted of relieving the
wants and necessities of our destit~1\<' l:rC"thn:n, their widov:rs
and orphans, by direct aid to thcp1 1:1 th:--11' own hpmcs, and
1
the establishment of the various Charity hrnds by (,rand L~dge.
lrnt it was not until the year 1884 that the i.!ca was acc<~mphsh~(\
of haying a separate building where the mcmhers of t!ie I· ratermty
might be recci\·ctl as in a home:. . At that time, (,rand Lml(Se.
owing to its imkbtc(\ncss and hnntcd ri:sourccs, dce111C(1 it 111·
expedient to assume the responsibility. wluch, howcyer, was taken
up by a number of the hrcthrcn int..:rcstl'd m t.he causC", a.nd the
result was thC" ~Tasonic l·l.ornc of Pcnnsyh-:rn~a located 111 tins
citv. There, with the contributions of the . (,r:and Lodge and
subordinate hodies and inclividuab, mcmbersl11p kcs, dues. donations, legacies and l:cqucsts. many of the age~! hrcthren .h~vc
been cared for and given the comforts of home m lh~1r (k_chmn_g
The brethrtn in charge of this work. hy the!!' selt-s~cnlahor and devotion to the cause. have earned and n•cewc_cl
the welcome "well done." They were cnahkd to enlarge the!!'
work hv the Elkins' Orphanage for Girls and, there, they have
cared for the orphan girls and for the aged women.

;1:

One is impressed in reading the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge
of PennsvlvJnia, with its wonderful financial resources. The balance
sheet ren~lered at the close of the year shows assets of $4,654,623.09.
The inYestmeiit in the Ma;;onic Horne alone exceeds $1,100,000.00.
and we believe that the ~f:lsonic Home establishment in Pennsylvania
is the most complete of its kind in tl1e worhl.
From thC" report oi the Committee on ;\[asonic l lomes, we quote
the followi1ig:
The great work of providing a ~Iasonic Home, which originat':d
in Cram! Lodge on :\larch 4, 1903. has heen consummated. Each
s11ccessivc step has been attended h)~ the closest scrntm;' .and the
deepest solicitude upon the part of Grand Lodge and ot Its com·
millet· h<iving the work in charge. X early seven y_ears t'bps~d
between the conception of the thought and the selection of a site
and the purchase thereof. 1t was not until :\fay 5, 1911, that th<·
contract for Grand Lodge hall was awarded: '\he details lcadmg
to this important event arC" folly rcconk<l l11 (:ram\ Lodge Pro·
ccedings and arc fresh in the minds of the Cratt. On Sqltemhcr
26. 1911. the' c11rnnst01w oi Cra)l(\ Lll<lgc· haJI \\:as laHL On
Jane 5. 19\:l, in tht pn'senn· of. Hpwanb ot thirty. thousarnl
peopk, the l1uilding
(\u\y <h,<_licatcd wnh. appropriate \ere·
monies
Th" f,ire;><
data. winch ncn•ssanly ntrnt many nf
the im.pnrtan1 th·ta!J:.;, are gil'l'll to ;;how with what car,., de~
liberation, a1H! forethought tlw incomparable- wor~ was u1Hle1'·
taken and proceeded with to its present con~11mmat1nn.
From the same report we glean an excellent idea, which is the
requirement whereby every so-called guest who is able to do any kind
of labor is engaged each day in work assigned by the Superintendent,

124

R~~PORT 01'\ CORRBSPONDJDNCB.

Rl<iPOHT 0:\ CORRESPONDl~N'CK

Crand Lodµ:c• hall, or llpon the grounds. The committee
rc:purts _that it is \1·ith '"'JlCcial plc;u;urc that each guest cheerfully
and aet:n·ly co-opcr:1tes with the· superintendent in contributing to
the general sue Cl"'°'· etc .. of the Home
_ This is certainly
line spirit and .is somefhing that is not alw.ws
luund among the olilcr residents in '\f;isonic Homes gcncrallv.
1:he Prnnsyh·;mia llomc h;,,; hccn in operation about a 1·ca;·, and on
Uw bth oi :\'on·111Lcr, 1913. gucsh on the roll numbered
Fraternal n·cug11itio11 was. in accordance with report
the Com1nittec on
extern \ u I to t I1c Cram] Lodge of the
l 1hilippi11c r:darnk
<'ilhcT

90

,;f

, The distingui<1cd Chair1111111 of the· C'i1rn111ittec· on Corrcspon<kncC'.
f '.mt her Jamcs :\1. J.a111lnrtn11. rcnclns his rcp"rt. whkh is of the us11al
high nrdcr
l ahr"rni:t, 19L'. is i11tl'lligu1tly cnnsidei·ed, wilh complimentarv
alltH<Hls lo ()\1r :\fasonic Homc·s. to ilw oratinn of Past Gran;!
.\fastc-r lirnlhn J1m1cs ,\.
etc.
The ;JCt iw Lndgc·s i,1 Pcrn1syh-ania !l<lw 1111111ih'r 4R6, wit1 1 total
l1JC·111hcr.ship of 105 ..255. an incn.:asc in membership <l\Tr the preceding
1 var of 4.529.
<llllllli..

J. l lE:\lff \\'rLLI "IS. Cram! '\laster, Philadelphia.
Jo11x .\. liEIHff,

Cr;rnd s('('1'C(:try, Philadelphia.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

1914.
The '-'.''''. \\'orl'hipfol (~rand Lodge
Free and Accepted Masom
the Junsd1ction of 111c Philippinc Islnmls convened in Annual ComllH11rn·at1n11 ,at the .\ fasnnic ·Temple, Calle San L11i:::. in the city of
.\fan1h. nn r11csdav, t!JC• Jd day of
. /\. L. 5914. at 3 o'clock
fl. n 1 .. Dcpnt)' Cr;n1d :\laster George R Harvey prcsiding.
"T

Th.e ~'.ran'.1 :\Tasler in his addrco;s refers to the cottrti:sics receh·rd
Calitorn1a. pai·ticnl;:d» from the Cr~ind !\Taster and Cram\ Seen"
iary, and expresses his appreciation in the following language:
.

lrnm

,
T desire at. this time. on my own part. and in heh~·ilf of the
(,r;_u_1;l _ .
o! !he· Philir;1;ine .Tsbmls. t;1 tbink the Grand Lod,ile
Ofl:ccr~ of . . State of Calttnrma. for their fraternal care of mYself
wink. m\·a!Hl;ng
11H.·ir stall' on the wav to m:rl from
Rnd1"'tcr. !1111111esota.
were tireless in their ministrations
.111<1
t" my licart with greater f<>rcc> than c'ver hdorr.
!he·
of our Order
_ '.l'o :\]nq \Vorshipful Brother Filin<:r. Cran<! !\Taster of C'tlilorn111. and to Right Vlorshipful Tlrotheor \Vhicher, Grand Sec,rctar_,.. T c·xtc-ml our profound th~d1k:; and gratitrnk

-------------------~-----..-·-

125

That the new Cram!
i:< meeting with a dc:scrved measure of
success may he judged from tlw following statement from the Grand
Master's address:
From a Smrnnary of the Returns oi our Lodges prepared by
the Gram! Secretary, our jurisdiction can report a net gain of
forty-one '\Jaster Ivfasons, which is very creditable considering the
large immhcr of our members who go hack to the United States
to return to the J,;Jan<ls no mon-. and eventuallv ask for their
dimits. The returns showed a tutal membership 'of tlve hundred
'\faster Ivlasons.
His high conception of the mission of '\Iasonry and the responsihilities which the new Craud Lodge have assumed in the Archipelago on
the other side of the world, finds expression in the concluding para·
graphs of the Grand !\.laster's annual address:
To the Grand Lodge Officers, whose efficient support ;\ll<l particularly to Grand Secretary Bellis, whose untiring aid and loyal
assistance has been of incalculable service <luring the iiast years,
I extend a most appreciative acknowledgment and profound gratitude.
l n this, the beginning of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
J slands, we arc as children, looking down tlw eternal years,
ulindecl liy the light of the coming ages, knowing not whither the
journey may carry us, but strong in the faith of our Order; tired
with the zeal that has carried .Nrasonrv round the world, buovant
with the hope tli<it has sustained our' pioneer hrothcrs on every
soil and in
clime; inspired by an unchanging conridcnce in
the principles
.\fasonry; made steadfast and unfaltering by
the character of the men who are attracted hy those principles
as the needle responds to the pole-star; sustain;:d by
sure reliance upon the leavening quality of that character am! its sublime
destiny to leaven, in the end, the whole human mass. 'vV e carry
with us the joyous certainty of youth and the banner of a glorious
cause; our hearts beat with exhaltation and gratitude to the Grand
Master of the Universe for having the opportunity of a ccntury,that of bringing to this country, a Masonry, regular and nonpolitical.
\Ve arc sincerely in hope that the year will bring together
under our jurisdiction the regular Lodges of the Philippine Islands.
The Grand Secretary reports lint the following Crand Jurisdictions
have officially recognized the sovc·reign and independent character of
the newly formed Grand L°'lgc:
\'ortlr Dakota..
...June 25. 1913
Arkansas ......... N ovcmbcr 18, 1913
Pennsylvania .... December 3. 1913
California ............ October 15, 1913
South Dakota ............. June 10, 1913
Colorado ........ September 16, 1913
Idaho ................ September 10, 1913 V crmont ...... . ...........} une 1, 1913
Washington ................ June 11, 1913
Illinois .................. October
1913
Indiana ........................ May 28, 1913 ·west Virginia .. November 12, 1913
'Michigan .................... May 27, 1913 Wisconsin ................... ,] une 10, 1913
Nebraska ............ ,....... ] tme
1913 Wyoming .......... September 3, 1913
N' ew Hampshire...... .,May 21, 1913

- .. -----·~------------

126

127

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

. The Grand Orato•:· Brother C. C. Cohn, favored the Grand Lodge

;..: 0 ckcisions were rcnclerctl by the Crand :!If aster, \>hich \VC take
as evidence of thl· complete harmnny that the (;rand :\faster states
exists in the jurisdiction.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the York Cram! Lodge of

'~Ith an excellent oratwn, and on motion duly made and seconded, the
t.rand Lodge extended a vote of thanks to the Grand Orator, and his
oration was ordered printed in full in the Proceedings.
The Grand Lecturer, \Vorshipfol Brother N cwton C. Comfort.
who at this communication was elevated to the exalted rank of Grand
:\faster, reports a marked degree of interest in the Lodges in the
<c•ork, and. that. the true :Masonic spirit exists in all of the Lodges.
, Even 111 tlus newest of Grand Lodges there is a Report on Foreign
Corrcsponden,:e hy the Chairman of the committee, V cry Worshipful
;\mos G. Bellis. Grand Secretary of the jurisdiction.
ll e expresses, in hi;, introductory remarks, his pride in having a
l'.l~cc at the "Round Tahlc.' and also craves indulgence for any de11c1cnc1cs that may manifest themselves in his earlier reports.
111 t.he presrnt production. review is made of the Proceedings of
only a 111111tcd number of jurisdictions, and the California volume had
evidently not come to hand. hccausc comment upon our jurisdiction does
not appear.
X EWTOK C. Co~J FORT, Grand Master, Manila.
A:-.ws G. BF.Lus . Grand Secretary, :\fanila.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

1913.
,
Pursu~nt to. notice and the provisions of the Constitution the
G'.aml Officers, Past Grand Officers and Representatives of the Constituent Lodges of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Prince
Edward Island, assembled in the Masonic Temple, at Charlottetown,
on June
5913 .. for the purpose of holding the Thirty-eighth.
. -\nn.ual ~01111m1111cat1011 of the .:Host \Vorshipfol Grand Lodge of
Ancient h·ec and Accepted Masons of Prince Edward Island, Grand
.Niaster John T. Profit presiding.
Number of Lodges, 15. Membership, 769. Gain, 28.
The entire Grand Jurisdiction of Prince Edward Island is no
la~ge.r m1111erka~ly than a great many individual American Lodges,
M1ss1on Lodge 111 this State, for instance, having at least 100 more
members than are found in the entire jurisdiction of Prince Edward
Island.
The excellence of their Masonic work, however, is not measured
by the number of Masons in the jurisdiction.
Within the year, the Grand Master visited all of the subordinate
Lodges of the jurisdiction, and was accompanied in all but three of
these visits by the Grand Secretary.

Mexico.
The application of the Grancl Lodge of the Philippine Islands for
recognition was carried oycr for another year.
The Grand :\'laster, in his report, states that while industrial and
commercial
liavc existed within the jurisdiction, there has
been no depression in the Masonic spirit manifested, and that through
it all there has been a steady and conservative growth.
Some difficulty has been experienced by ;;omc of the brethren of
the jurisdiction in traveling in foreign lands, because of the absence
of "documcntarv evidence.''
Resentment is manifested over the fact that some of our American
Grand Jurisdictions lwnc practically turned down the ancient landmark of the right of Yisitation enjoyed by Masons; in other words, the
privilege or participating . in Masonic intercourse with their br~thren
when traveling in foreign lands; because the result of the rulmg of
most of our American jnrisdictions to the effect that documentary evidence of membership m\1st be
has practically eliminated this
ancient landmark of the right to visit.
Good reasons exist for the requirement of documentary evidence
and the modification of the .ancient landmark, therefore. we think must
remain.
There is no report on Correspondence in the sense of a review
of other jurisdictions. although Worshipful Brother \V. P. Doull,
Chairman of the committee. makes a brief report of a general character
touching upon one or two :!lfasonic subject~.
Rev. T. F. Frr.LERTON, D. D .. Grand ]\faster, Charlottetown .
\VALTF.R P. Dom.L. P. G. 1\L Grand Secretary, Charlottetown.
QUEBEC.

1914.
The Most \Vorshipful The Grand Lodge of Quebec. Ancient, Free
and Acccptccl l\fason,;. held its Forty.fourth Annual Communication
in the city of Montreal. in the Province of Quebec, on the 11th day of
February, A. D. 1914, A. L. 5914, at the :\Iasonic Temple, Dorchester
Street, Grand ]\faster Jolm E. Wright presiding.
From the opening paragraphs of the Grand Master's annual address, we quote :
As we survey the year just closed, we. cannC'.t, I am sure,
but distinguish a splendid advance in all Imes ot thought and
action, the growth of the Order has been beyond, probably, all

128

RBJPOHT ON CORRESPONDJ<~NCK
our c'Xjll'l'1atio1i,;, ;ind ;1.s n·idl'nl'1' of the hl':tltll\· linancial standing
of soml' oi our Lodge,;, 1n· 1wtc th:1t a nunilwr have acquired
the properties in which their llll'L'!ings arc held, while others have
scct•rcd new quarters, n101T comnrnrlious and more suitable for
carrying on their work.
And while we arc rejoicing at the success of our great
work, kt us in all humility acknowledge our gratitude to the
Supreme Crea t :\rchitect for His blessings vouchsa feel to us in
the past, arnl innikc J !is l>lcs,;ings on our clelilicrations for till'
future.

The Grand Master with deep feeling rders to the untimely taking
off of the Right \Vorshipful Brother Charles \Velis Hagar, Deputy
Grand .:\Jaster, who passed away aiter a brid illness scarcely five
weeks aitcr his elevation to the exalted position of Deputy Grand
l\I aster.
The Grand !\Jaster states that Brother llagar's wise counsel and
sound j i1dgmrnt are greatly missed from the Grand Lodge.
Early in May. 1913, the Crane! Lodge was convened for the purpose oi consecrating Ifoyal Arch Lodge Xo. 85. The occasion was a
notable one, graced by the presence oi many of the distinguished Past
Grand Officers of the j uriscliction.
Another notable function that occurred within the year was the
celebration of the One Hundred Twenty-lifth "\nniversary on the 20th
0£ October oi St. John's Lodge Ko. 3 of the city of Quebec.
The year was an active one in the .Id a sonic a it airs of Quebec. The
Crall(! J\fastcr honored wit:1 his presence within the year a number oi
the subordinate Lodges, and he otherwise discharged in a highly satisfactory manner the duties of his exalted station.
The total membership of the jurisdiction has reached the gratifying
total of 7,819, showing a net increase over the preceding year of 457.
In the afternoon of the first clay of the session, the Right vVorshipful
Brother, the Rev. vV. Stevenson, District Grand Chaplain of the
Montreal District, dcli\·erecl a discourse upon the history and teachings
of J\Iasonry that was listened to with rapt attention, and at its close
a vote of thanks was extcndecl to him by the Grand Lodge with an
order that the address be prinlcll in foll in the minutes of the Proceedings.
'The Special Commit!cc appointed to consicln the invitation
emanating from the Craml Lodge of OrL·gon, looking to the establishment of some "central representative l\fasonic Body," very sensibly and
properly made this report:
That this Grand Lodge is unalterably opposed to any movement whatever, wherever originating, in any way calculated to
affect the absolute supremacy of any regularly constituted Grand
Lodge within the limits of its uni\·ersally recognized sovereignty,
and for this reason, and because of the long sustained struggle of
the Grand Lodge oi Quebec for absolute Masonic sovereignty

129

. ; . o 1· t11 e. Pr01·i11ce of Quebec,
the
· · tic
I gcogt"
. · ·oi1 h ,·nl
w1th111
' lt·11.to;
·1 L 1 . 0 f Ore<»on lie courteous ! :Y. ''ttl(l
'I
f
the
Cntl(
or
ge
·
1
1·
t
· ' ' C . · · Locln-e of Qucl1ec l cc rnc~ 0 he
Crane! ·' aster. l?
fnternallv 11ot1hecl that tlw .t atH 1 ti':
t utlinecl in his circular
'
I mm·emcnt as 1•1 11
I
ti ·
, 1913 and n·s1Lctfdly asks t 1at
11~
a party to any sue 1
letter of the 23rd J um·
·1 1. _ rel with ·inv and all of thL
1Hesent resolution he plac~·r 1 m1 .. cc~ nrl··tlilc' p;·oposition, which
·d1110·
,,
t to
corrcsponcI ence. lI '".
" \"lt
.' l 11 t,1.lh·1.,,ien'
11t than that nf an attemp
· cannot consH.
· lei· 111 :i111
it
' -. ot '· " t,.-· I, ni a Cencra \ (',ratH I I ' ()(l<>e
" .
introduce the thm, ecL;e ot the p1111up c
'
lo, . c'o itcd an official receipt for rluc·s to he furThc (,ram! Loe "c .t ' 1
, . , . s "clocument:iry evi1
.
.
111
l
nishccl to snhon '1t,c 1,c '(\OTS
"' · ''ttHJ to 1lC ..llSl( ,l.
·
·
»1 1
'tino otlwr L11dQ,cs.
clcnce" b1· l:rethrcn in \ '·
M
_ ..
. F T D. Cham hers.
.
1t ,·o CorrcspntH1CllLC I~ 1)~ .. .
The Rtport on oni,,,n
··-·t·l of llcnr1· V:1n
.: t. of ·1 concknsec 1 l l l l .t
.
The i11trncluct1011 cons.s s
,.'
'[· " the "Tlll of purest rav
,
, . . . "Tl c Oth1·r \\ ise ·' .1n.
M
•
•
·!I
I )yke s alkgo1 >.
l
.
.
I. t ti" oreatcst tl1111g in the wot l
, I '.,I from the alkgon· liemg t 1.1
i_. ,,
rlu J.c((
.
.. _. 1, f T• reemaso1ir1»
I . , which is the lias1c pnmip L 0
l· _
.
_
. , 11 . C· 1lifornia fatls to 1111(! a p ,He.
.
is m c,
Tn the report licfm c '· '
C'l. 1 , ". l"J)()rt were wr.ttten
.
1·
i
TI
rot
her
],\111
](!
s
'
The conclm ! mg mcc, ll
>
f I 1· .. ter to the S. S. "Em·
· 1 · . 'ilc of the a11· 1' cts,ts
..
;1t the nrnment wit 1111 ,1 ,n
.
, t'. notice ancl w1tl11n a
f
" ·hich w1thm1\ a momcn '
I
I
press of Tre arn · \I
•
..
.
.• 1- to the lrnttom o
. I
·! 1. 1 Incl left her mo011ngs. s, 111 '
'
.
.
, . ,. rh· a thnusancl human
few lrnnrs ;cfte1 tic s 11
p·
'll"r\"lll!Y \\'It 11 1ll l llL 1
the St. Lawrence ,11~cr, c. . ,... 1
'., than «nie brother :\fason.
, . , lin·s 110 cl nu it. llH 1t
"
I ,
lives • among \ 11c sc.
. . t··,"rctnar..:-;;
1 1'.
ti , . Clnmhcrs
upon tic
)t(Jlll
,(
'
"\\'lnt ·tn ;1wfnl commcn ·11 >·
· .
. ·t. ·ith snrce\I· a
'
'
j' f' which Sl''Cpt JlltO ctet nt ) ' \\
. '
uncertainty of human 1 c.
· · . _ ls
'.\Lev each one oi
moment's \1·ar11i11g nearly a tlwusand sou..
.
.
us hear ancl head the \\·arning 1"
M

1

v\Ti{ll~HT. Crancl l\fastcr. :\1011trc;1L
JoHN E.
'[ t I
W11.1.ll. \V H YTJ', Cram\ Secrc\a ry. " crn rea .
RHODE ISLAND,

1913.
·
of
0
•
, '.\] ·t \nctent
;111c I 11 orn 11··1l>lc·
'
•Socidv
Tlw Cram! Loclgc ot \hl . os, .c; . , if Rhrnk lsland and Provl·
,
I 7\hsons for the ,.l.ttl '
n
.
Free ancl :-,cceptcc " '.
. . '
I l' . 1 in I<'rccmasons Hall, ,-ron.
.
cnecl 111 -,,mp e 'otn
I
dencc Plantations ts op
·
,
? 'Lt 10 o'clock a. 111., t 1e
I . 18tl lw of N ovcmber, n. 1,. 591 -· '
.
. li 1,.
dence, t 11s
1 l'.
· ,.
.. \\'crnkll Richmnnrl Davis, prcs1r 1 h
l\T.". \V.". Crarnl ;\faster, Ltot 1ic1
·

in the East.
..
. .1·lili·
.
l C011111111111. ·atllln,
poss
. the must important
.'
.
f the l'l'port of the Com.\t this :iL'tll!-al111Ua
! ... the cons1dnat10n o
.
business tran:o;actcc \I .ls
· 1 . , ·t of the suh-conumttec upon
. 11 i , . am\ t ic 1C p01
. 1 I
mittec on :;l,[asu111c
on cs, '
f tl ··r reports. in wh1c 1 t 1c
·
.
1 the sni>stancc n
let
·
the same sn Ii1cct. arn
ti. t until .1 fond amount111g to
Gran cl Loclg\' con cu rrccl. seemed to 1lC 1<l
'

130

not less than $50,000 is accumulated f
l\I·
. H
no action be taken in the direct line ~; ·ta~ol.mlc. ome purposes, that
Tl G
cs au is m1g such ·1 Home
ie ,rand Lodge of the l\Iost An . t
,
.
Free and A
t I l\I
"
• cicn and Honorable Society of
'
. cccp ec
asons for the State of RI d I 1 d
ckncc Plantations is opened in .Am)]
10 e
s an and Providence. l\fonday, ::VIav 19th ·\ . L l Se913, orm m F~ccmasons Hall, Provi?II . 'V . G
1 l\I, . . .
• at 10 o clock a. m. with the
• • • v • •
ranc
aster B ti . \\T
·
'
in the East. this bcino- ,theroO iet H en~elll Richmond Davis, presiding
Communication.
"
ne
unc rec and Twenty-third Annual

F .

I

I

Hl~POHT

REPORT 00; CORRl£SPO:'\DENCK

The Grand .!\faster in his annual address reported
ity. A larg:c number of sp .
]'
.
a year of activt
.
· ecia 1 c Ispcnsat10ns were granted; visitations
o numerous
suliordmates
were
m
cl
.
.
.
.
.
·
a e, ccrtam off1c1al rulino-s upon.
1cga.1 que~t10ns of a local nature were made and otl . 1 t' "':
nect10n w 1tl1 tl
ff
IC! ( u JCS 111 conc
ie o ice of Grand Master were capahly discharo-cd.
I rom . the Secrctarv's
rec
·cl·
.
,
]
.
1
· "' 111
. rehtion
"'
01
·
s \\ e car n t 1e follow 111
tu
mcm bcrs h 1p:
"
•
. Pres~nt membership, 8,461; membership
gam during the year, 344.
one year ago, 8, 117. :'.'{ct
JOJr N F. Ct.\RK, Crane] ;,~r aster. v allev F·tlls
s. PtNROSJ\ \V ILLL\M s, (',rand Secrcta•ry, ' Pro\·idcncc.
..
. SASKATCHEWAN.
1914.

.At the Eighth Annual Communication of the C.. I L d
and A M of Sa 1 t I
I
,1.rnc
o gc, :\. F.
· .,
s <a c iewan, ](']cl at the city· of Moo J .
·
Wedne]
tl 17l cl
se aw,commencmo·
'Cay, JC
ti ay of June,.\. D 1914 A L 5914 G· I
"'
M · W · B I
\\T .
," · · •
. ,1anc l\1:astcr
. .
. . rot icr
ellmgton Bartlev vVillouuhb.
'cl cl
The openina .
·
"' 1 pres! c .
. ·
·]
.
~ p.ige is ac1orned with an .excellent picture of the newlv
e cctecl R .. W .. Brother L. T. McDonald.
.
Master in his. a dd ress spea I<s of the prosperity which
. .The
·1 1Grand
1
p1e1a1 ec t iroughout the jurisdiction. He states that he w·ts unable
o1~ /ccou~t ~f unforeseen circumstances, to visit as manv o~. the sub~
o1c mate O< .~es. ;'.s had been his purpose. He expresses ;he belief .tint
~he n~e~1bcrs i.01nmg the various Lodges in the jurisdiction hear a fa:r
compdnson with ~hose of any other Grand Jurisdiction .
cl . He ]refers with much feeling to the wor].-· of tl1e ~rim Reaper
ur111~· tie .year preceding and cal],; attention to a numher of brethren
promment 111 the j nriscliction wh 11 Incl ·'ti
·
their reward.
'
\\ 1 1111 t 1](· year lwen called to
I le mentions
the c ' ·r ' .111 011 .\• .0 i I ay1ng
·
,
.
. ·
the cornerstonc at St CZ! I'
College at Regma on the 6th da 0 f A
. . iac s
·
ti B' h
'Y
ugust, 1913. at the request of his
Lord s I11p. h1e 1s op of Qu'A ppe 11 e. Tl1c attendance he reports was
1arge anc1 t e ceremony exceedingly interesting.
,
'

ON CORRESPONDENCE.

131

Apparently dispensations for se\·en new Lodges were granted
within the year, and prol;ably fifteen or twenty special dispensations to
Lodges to attend Divine sen-ice in regalia, a form of dispensation quite
common in the Lodges on the British side of the line in North America,
but a form of dispensation usually, and we bclin·e properly, refused in
the ;\rncrican Grand Lodges.
lie makes some good ~>uggestions as to the need of Masons following some line of "\Iasonic reading, to the end that they may be better
informed upon J\Iasonic subjects generally. and he urges the wisdom
of something in the nature of Masonic lectures, to he given from time
to time clnring the year in Lodges, so that members may be in a higher
sense real and true Masons.
These thoughts arc exprcssccl 111 the conclusion of his address as
follows:·
Th snnl:ulism is rich in antiqllarian lore. arnl J should like to
sec. in all tl1e more important Lodges, in any event, Masonic topics
taken llp at meetings from time to time and clisc\\ssecl. Papers
could he read from tinw to time ln· members of the Order according to their knowleclgc arnl comp.etcncy. ancl these papers wo\\hl
kacl to informal disc\\ssions throwing a flood of light on the teachings ancl history of l\Iasonry. If it were known that on a certain
c\·ening a brother wonlcl be requested or permitted to deal with some
phase of :\Iasonn· or with some q\\estion of its symbolism, other
members would. h~we an opportunity to reacl U!l in the interval
thereby making a general clisCllssion in the Lodge. one of great
interest. 1 think even· Loclge shol'ld make some effort to acquire.
however small it might 11e. a 1\Iasonic Library. In many of
the large am! financialy strong Ledges. T find there is no Masonic
literatnrc hdonµing to the Loclgc worth mentioning. To purchase
such literattirc ll\· the pri\·atc 111cml1ers migl1t prove impossible.
hllt if acquired by the Lodge itself a comparativelv small sum
would furnish the beC"inning of a good l\fasonic Library. Editions cle lnx•.' ncecl not lie pnrclwsed. The individual member. if he
desires snch, ma\· lm>· alHl place them in his private library.
'l'hc Locli!c foncls 111i0·l1t lll' better crnplm·ccl in extending the
scope nf the library than by pt1rchasing \\nnecessarily expensive
editions.

Brother :\. S. Gorrell. Past Grand :\laster. submits his Report on
Correspondence. a \veil written ;ind intelligent review of the various
Grand J nrisdictions.
He gives California. 1913, full and conrteo\\s consideration, noting
most of the important acts of the Gram! Loclgc and (j\\Oting quite extensively fr11rn tl1c int rrnlnct iun <Jf the Report on Foreign Correspornlcnce.

L. T. l\fcDo"',1LD, Grand Master, Regina.
JOH:-! l\I. Srr.\ w, Grand Secretary, Regina.

132

REPORT ON CORRIC.:SPONDl~NCJ;J.

REPORT ON' CORRESPO:\'DENCE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.

1914.
Th<:
opcni110
jYl"c
·
of
tl
,
1914
..,, •,.., ' .
ie
vo 1ume are adorne l •'ti • .·. II
.
,
·
' "1 1 exec ent
portr·tits of i\J · vr ·
\l'
' ·
" · · ' · · : tn;( 1 :vfuller Simpson p G i\I . p . . · 1
f
the Board of General Pur11oscs. R . '\T . \'"II·. . L.
.. . !C->H cnt o
C .\
•
· ., · · ' · · ·vl Jam awes \V·irc p D
" · L, Hon. Secretarv• Fre~'111
·t"'JJJ" rcT.•d II T rust :111 d R' \V'
. ' p' ·J ·
'·'''
Thomas Corin Holland P j) G .\I (' . 1 R. ' .'
. . .
. . >rot icr
' · · '· .. ., _ ,r.tnt
cg1strat.
Th~· half yearly communication of the Grand Lodn·
f S. 1
\ustnln
· ! 11
1·
om 1
•
·
' • \Hts lC' c at · rcemasons' ] hi! \ I + · I
. ,,.c
· o October
15,
1913.
·
' · · < c .me, \"
vednesday,

At this u· 1m1nnmcat1011
•
·
certain amendments to th, . ·t' .
were ·1dopt I
I I ·
·
c cone ltntrnn
• ,·
ec an, ms1ness of a geucr;tl character transacted.
. l he Annual Communication of the Crand Loclo, 1£ 'T, • ~
\\"1-s ., j J l
\ •
·
.,c c "u' Sonth
" c '\\dS ie < on \ erlnesda \', .\pril l S 1914 ti
. .
\
·I c
·
·
·
·
•
ic pmposc of the
· nntt<1
ommun1cat1on being to elect the C.. 1 i\T· .
.
rc11ort f ti I'
I . ' '
.
,1 dllC ' .istcr to rcce1n· the
0
ic >Oare ol (,cncral Purpose>'. etc.
ln 11orni11ati11n· for re-election l\J · VV · I'.1 I
.
Samuel J \V· . l~ . .
.
. ", · ·
· · ' ot 1cr Right IIonor;ihk
. .
d}. •alt.. L1cut<'na11t-(,on:rnor and Chief ] usf
i S
l
. \ustraha. the R.'. \V.'. Brother F F C
. 1 - ., .
. ice o ~out l
. ,. orllls 1 saH1 111 part:
I am <.,\'re it needs no words of 111 · .
,
·
resolution to you.
(Appia , • )- \", I . mc to. cn111111e:1d t 111,;
,
·
.
.li.c
vc 1.tH' n-alD:cd dunng ti"
1
1
I i\I aster'
1) ~ar · .. ow
.. Inmch •we rcallv· owe to . the ·'"·[ · · · \\' · · · ('..
.i.1m
l b \Cl}
ong <11Hl Yalucd sernces to the Cnft in c;
1 and we ilrc proud. i.ndeed, to have such a'
hear)
. the (lelthcrat10ns of Grand Lodgc (I I ear.
with. Frec411asonrv w/1~1·1~'.~'P~~~~t10nl to I us th.at in our. association
time and Ins . « 1 1
'.·
. WHJ ias given so much of his
, · ~r . YV .. gt,icc( 11s \\1th hr:; wise counsel for so manv
0.. t.t ,' · · · · ~ Crall(! l'vTaster is known am! esteemed not·
;-,o nt.1 1\nstral1a, hut thronghont the whole of the StCJ.tes It . ,
" 11 1Y yesterday that I receh·cd the rci1ort of ti · c ~
• 1·
w.isf
thl' la t Ti ~1 JI t'
C
·
1c p1 occe1 mc·s o
'
,, a a 101.1 . ercmom• in Tasmania. ;ind I ... ~ J.: . l
to _note that the rcttnng Grand Master in hi< JI· . "a' p LI~~'
retcrC'ncc to our .\f • \V , ('
'T
· a(( 1 ess made spc(l,i!
.
.
.· · ·
· · •rnllr1 1" aster. Thcv had 't
I.
l.ippy. time l1l Jlohart. hut thC' n·tirinO' Gnncl .\f· ·t
'
·
. f ornwd them
\\"ts with de 'P
"
• M· · ,1s\i\Ter• C.. 11I
.,' ·
c rcQ,TC1, ti1at 1Jc 111
the
j\!aster of the Gnncl Lo(h
f S
1 \
· · ·
· · .i,mr
hv ill-he· It' f.
"e o ~out_1 1 ustraha was pren·ni<•rl
:, )
.1 . n . i om icu;g present at their gnthcrirn;•, a" he was one
;;;;'. t 1d a.':1.;;tcrl [1f t11c formation :if Crand Lodge ·in Tasc~·iani~
'1i\f::;:pt L~ • 101 ~ 0 rc!?.:ml from a s1;;tcr $tatc shows ns how hie>!;
01
t l~1~mui1
·ll;t\ ·,· (t,ra1!Hl ::\Ta~terl sta.J](ls in apprcciat inn of the hrctlirrn
"·'
. ._ !1' ra 1a.
("PP :rn,e.)
.
R. · \\ · · Brother .\. ::\l.
:. r han· n·1·y much plcas"re
l1l secondirnr thl' motion. ;ind T
wtsh 10 express the hone tll;:t
the l\I.': \V.'. Grand Master will l:c long spared to preside O\T:·
our deliberations. (Applause.)
The motiotJ was carried .with great cntlrnsias111.

[~~~f;~~'. a.

h:

disting 1;i~J~~~l

l .

133

The Cram! ,\I askr ma(k ;1 stirring address. in which he paintctl in
glowing color,.; the progrc;;s of the Fraternity in South Australia.
He rcfL•rred to the many tokens of n·,.;ped which he ha<! received,
and recounted a numhcr of the inspiring incidents which had occurred
in his experience in South Australia, and breathed the hope that the
fotme would be as grand and glorious as the past.
The Pro. Cram! Master, :'.\ [. ·. \V. ·. Brother Eustace Beardoe
Cnmdy, K. C., made a brief address, in which he expressed the utmost
lrlyalty to the Grand Master and to the fraternity of South Australia.
The Board of General Purposes. which is the real executive board
of the Grand Lodges of Australia, made its report, showing the progress of the Craft and its general condition of prosperity.
The Board reports that the past year had been an exceedingly busy
one. warrants for nine new Lodges were granted; five had already
been consecrated, <tml it was the expectation that the remaining four
would be consecrated in a very short time.
There arc now 77 Lodges in acth·c work, with a total membership
of o\·er 5,000.
The reports of the yarions Funds are very satisfactory and dis·
closed a sound financial condition of the jurisdiction .
There is a Report on Foreign Corre;;pondcnce, prepared by a committee of fourteen, the report of each jurisdiction being initialed by
the member of the committee making the review of that jurisdiction.
California, 1913, ls reviewed by Brother :F. Lathlean. Grand Master Filmer is commended for the high Masonic note struck in his address. Brother Fi!rnC"r's activity in visiting subordinate Lodges is particularly praised and especial reference is made to the fact that he
visited not kss than 61 Masonic districts representing over 300 Lodges.
The scholarly address of Grand Orator Hervey is referred to in
terms of strong commendation and several paragraphs are quoted from
the oration.
The Correspondence Report throughout shows much discrimination and original comment.
:\T.'. \V.'. Bro. His Excellency the Rt. Hon. Sir SAMUEL }AMF:S
\V,\Y, Bart., P. C .. D. C. L., L.L. D., Lieutenant-Governor,
Chief Justice of South Australia, Chancellor of the University
of Adelaide, etc., etc .. elected Cra!1CI Master.

C 11.\HLJ's R. ]. GuwF.R, P. D. G. J\I., Gran cl SC'rrdary.

134

JU~l'OHT

H1';PORT 0:\ COHRESPONDJGNCK

O'.'\ CORRESPO:\Dl~NCI~.

135

SOUTH DAKOTA.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

1913.

1914.

B
An. excellent portrait of J\1 ... \V.". Drotl1c1· Geo.1 . T .
the
I
ge
w1ggs
r ·an
?ew y elected Grand i\Iastcr, forms the frontispiece of the p:i i· '
cee d mgs.
o-

The frontispiece is an excellent!\· executed steel engraving of
Grand J\Iastcr Owen H. "Williams.
South Dakota is the one State in the Union that is famous for
the prodigality with \Vhich it furnishes pictures of J\Iasons identified
in a more or less prominent degree with the Fraternity, not only in
South Dakota lint in different parts of the L"nion. Some two or three
years since, in the Correspondence Reports. there were excellent portraits of practically all of the Crand Secretaries throughout the United
States and other jurisdictions, and we recall the pleasure which we
experienced in coming uncxpccteclly. in glancing through the volume of
South Dakota Proceedings, upon the classic features of our own v. ·.
\V .". Grand ~ccrctary, John \Vhicher. In the present volume of Proceedings the genial ancl distinguished chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence has afforclcd ill c opportunity to the various members
of the corps of reporters to look into each other's faces, as it were, as
the report from each State is prefaced with the picture of the correspondent from that State. except in a few instances, where the cxcessi\'C modesty of the corrcsponclcnts hayc deterred them from furnishing
the copy of photographs asked for.
The report in this case is preceded by the portrait of Past Grand
l\Iastcr Samuel ;\. B·rown, chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, to whom we are incleLtcd for the gallery of :\Iasonic highbrows,
and we certainly are very glad to be able to look upon the "counterfeit
presentment" of the keen, alert, open and interesting countenance of
the clistinguishcd correspondent from South Dakota. But to return to
the rCYicw of the Proceedings of 1913.
Kot less than fi,·c emergent communications, so-called, were held
within the year for the purpose of constituting Lodges which had rccci,-cd charters at the prc,·ious ~\nnual Communication, for the dedica-

The One Hundred and Thirt .
. , I A.
the ::\Iost \Vorsl11· f I ('., d I
:\-Se\ en! 1 '. nnual Conmmnication of
p .u
,J,tn
. t ,..,
C· r
. mJn-n
. "'' of 1\ nc1cn
,, rccmasons of S ti
m tl11; Masonic Temple, in the city of
'. ..d ' M
o c oc on ucsda
,. the 9tl1 (1ay ot. D eccmher A. L 5913 '
C
. '.'
,ran l aster George S. Mower presiding.
' . . .
'
In the address of the Grand M ·tst
I 1. . .
11
1

S<l~ n:~ ~olnv_e1!1edk

Charle~t~n1

tl~~~onferc1~cc

;iel~ a;\1 1~:~: 1~1 ~~~ i 5°:~ ~~:!~~ 1 °~ ~~~t

to

of Grand Masters
. ~re says It 1at he bclic_ves that these conferences will tend to, nnl-~
Olli 11 asomc aw more umf
ti
I
' '
that he cannot speak too hi•~l:;:1o;\~u'g10~1t the. country and furthermore
conference.
"' ·
le pci sonncl and dclihcra!1011s of the
As . a social . f unc t.ion tic
I conference was prol>alil • a
b. t
.
:i , success, but as
a meetmg ha nno- for it
'
"
s o JCC no pract1cd pt .
b ·
co~1ference was absolutely and entirely usclcs's a u P_~scll we f elieve the
this character.
· ' ' s ai c a con crences of
The covert purpose of one or two of the 1)1·i111c
meet
b I
1110\"Crs of these
mgs is, we e icve. to form if ossibl' . G
'
imitation of some of ti •
d'
P .
c, ,t cncral Cram! Lodge, in
1e mo ern fratennl or""a · t"
1
:pnmg up in this country, and while there i '. "~· mza ions t :at have
in resolutions ado11tcd i11 ti
, f
s ,tl\\,tys a d1st111ct d1sclauncr
1ese con crcnccs that
I ·
l
nevertheless this is w
· .
.
·
sue 1 Is tie purpose,
1
at least one of. th;s e )ef1I~ve. the lmldcn mainspring that has brought
c con c1 cnces ·uHI per ha
.
0 ti
the practical · I f 'f·
.
· '
'ps
iers mto being. l"or
.
.
gooc o J1 .is0111 y thcv sern~ no , f I
m our Judgment, he discouraged ;;ncl disconti~~:~C(~l. purpose and should,
l"raternal recognition w;1s cxtcnclcd to the (' .
I L I
Philippine Islands.
,i anc
O( ge of the
From the report of th, c.
I J\I
the year preceding had hc~1 ~1 a111~~s"pc;1'.osttet r, we arc! enabled to judge that
. ·
'
'
·
s one an( th·1t ti
I
'
ic genera cond 1t10n of the Craft is excellent.
The. Report on Foreign Correspondence .
The report is in all .
is by Past Grand ]\faster
its departments an excellent one'.
comment
is intelligent; selections f or quotation arc i· udicio11.s ,· tl1c'
.
r Iietonc and composition fine.
California, 1912, is re,·iewed.

J L . .:\fiche.

GEORGE T. BRYAN, Grand J\Iaster, Greenville.

0. FRANK I-L\RT, Grand Secretary, Columbia.

tion of J\fasonic ·Temples, etc.
c\s a fitting climax, the Fortieth Grand c\mmal Communication
was held at /\berclcen, South Dakota. on June 9 and 10, 1914, 1\1.". \V.".
Owen H. \Villiams, Grand :\faster, presiding.
,\ftcr tl1c formal opening of the Grand Lodge, the Proceedings
were rnlivcnctl hy tl1c introduction an cl reception of ;\I.". \V.". Brother
\Valtcr L. \Villiamson, Grand l\Iastcr of North Dakota. Brother
Williamson responded to the welcome accorded him in a pleasing and
happy manner. am! after his reception the ceremonies were continued
by an address of welcome from Brother George F. Sime, \Vorshipful
l\Iaster of Aberdeen Lodge. with response by Brother George V.
;\yrcs. Past Grand :\faster.

136

IU<JPORT ON CORRI::SPO:"\DENCK

Jn the opening portion oi his annual address Crall(! J\lasll'r
\Villiamson says :

J\fasonry that attempts to live within the four walls of its
Temple and finds its only expression in its ritual and sym!Jols,
has missed the very essence of its life. Masonry is the great
institution for blessing and uplifting mankind. The gospel of
is taught more dearly in our beloved Order, than in
any other organi7.ation in the world. Jt is the gospel that places
its ya Jue upon human life and says "\ly' e arc going to meet upon
the len·l and give yon ii fair chance in life to work am! become
:\nd whenever we have heen in trwch with a human
he it in a social. political, or personal relation, let us lc;\\'c it
better than wc found it. Onr work in :\fasonrv is to unite all
1·cligions and t ongucs into one great brotherhood.

Hl~POHT

ON COHRl~SPONDENCID.

137

Stll'\'CV ,,f the J\[a,;onk Field as it appears in the interval
hctwccn (;ttr annual Cotnmt111ications at Yankton ;md at
deen gives the grcatc,;t cnconragc1_ncnt of the fraternal
.
The annual increase in 111ernlw1·sh1p for the U111tcd States is
more than sixtv thousa11d, arnl the number actually lost by
demit am\ cxch~sion is kss than one per cent. All the world
over there is a iarger and more lilwral spirit of bencvokncc.
not indeed enough to satisfy the friends o~ the Craft. hut ample
to incense onr enemks who ;in' said lo ne now makmg more
desperate efforts to discredit the Brotherhood than ever.

California, 1913, comes in for review and pleasant and agrcc<1 blc
comment.

Gr:n. PHILlP, Grand Master, Fort Pierre.
Gram! Secretary. S,011x Falls.

C1;0 . . \. PE'l'Tll:1rn\1·.

"If am· little love of mine mav make a life the swcct<:r,
1f an)· little care of mine ma}• make anoth<"r life completer,
1 f any lift of mine mav '"asc the burden of another.
God -~;ivc me Jon.: <tnd care and strength. to help my toiling
brother."

The Grand Master reports a year of act1v1ty; the several Lodges
receiving charters at the last Annual Communication were duly constituted; dis1)(•11sations to form three new Lodges '\ovcre grai1tcd, and
numerous special dispensations for various purposes.
The Grand Master
refused his consent to a certain Lodge
holding its meeting in the open ;1ir. He passed upon various questions
of visible physical
which have no special interest to other jnristlictions, each jurisdiction being, to a great extent, a law unto itself
upon this subject.
Hc speaks of his tour through the larger portion of the northern
section of our country in the month of September, at which time he
visitl'd Masonic li()(lics in Philadelphia, Washington, D. C., Cleveland.
Ohio. Chicago, Ill.. New Ynrk State. and clscwhcrC', and refers particularly to his attendance upon the Grand l\fastcr's conference held in
Indianapolis.
\Ve arc pleased to note that he says in co111wctio11 with this conference that in his belief each jmisdiction should be supreme in itself,
an(! that nothing in these annual conferences should he construed as
looking toward the formation of anything in the nature of a Supreme
Grand l,odge. .I\ evcrthelcss, in our opinion, this is the covert purpose
of those most active in promoting these annual meetings, and for that
reason the meetings should be discontit:uetl.
The Report ou Correspondence, as previously stated, is by Past
Grand Master Samuel A Brown. His a11prcciation of the active spirit
of Masonry which has appeared in the world is disclosed in the opening paragraph of his introduction, which we quote as follows:

TENNESSEE.

1914.
The opening of the volume of Proceedings of the Crand Lodge of
1914 is devoted lo the minutes of the one hundredth anniversary of the
formation of the Masonic Grand Lodge of Tennessee.
The minutes contain a historical sunmnry of the first century of
the existence of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee. and is well worthy the
perusal of those interested in the history of :he older of the American
Crand Lodges.
The Annual Communication was held in .I\ aslwille, J auuary 28,
1914, :\I.'. \V .', Brother Charles Comstock, Grand ~laster, presiding.
The Grand ]\faster in his address reports sending $1,000 for the
Ohio tlood sufferers.
The Grand Lodge was active during the year, and among other
official acts were the, placing of cornerstones of three public buildings
under Masonic auspices, the issuance of various dispensations to form
new Lodges, etc.
Numerous rulings, or so-called decisions, were made of a
qualifications were
local nature, and numerous questions of
passed upon.
The Grand ]\faster declined to lay the cornerstone of a new
church building at Oakdale, Tenn., because it was suggested that the
ceremony take place on a Sunday.
The Grand ]\faster apprehcrnls imminent danger, ii not promptly
checked,
from nnjustifial:lc "fraternal
and upon this
subject his comments are as follows:
if not
l desire to call your attention to a _situation
tiisconl
promptly c\wcked, will he productive of strife, .sdnsms
in some of our suhordmatc I,odges, a1H\ will result m serions
harm to the fraternity.

139

Rl•JPORT ON CORRl'JSPONDENCK

138
::\lorl' tha11 a s1.._·1~rt' 1i.f yt':trs ~inec :in effun \Y;1s 111ade. in C('t'tain ;.;ections nf nnr State to intrrn.lucT lindics ni 11·hat is cnmrnonf,·
known as tlw .. Cerncan Srnttisl1 Hill'." .\t thal time it produce;!
bitterness 0f frding and di"'cn,ion
S<llllc ni our brethren. I
rejoice, hown·,·r, that the
bodies was nf short
duration among 11s. Since tlw
nf the prc·scnt
just as we were congratnlating onrseh-cs 1111011 1·11tcring
second
n•nturv of our existence 11ith lwrn1011y
throughout our
Cram( Jnrisdiction--1 !came<! that
·
of this institution. the :;o-calkd "Supreme
Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite of
and
Degree, for
the United States
Llcpcndcncics,"
of which :\1. '. \\'. · ·
the reputed
Crand Con1111ander
and
that in tlw
the suliordinate bodies
this
and the sec'ds of
tlisconl and contention wnc'
our brethren in
that l\lasonic stronghold.
that the im·asion
of our Capital Cit.'· w<1.->
]J,· the same forces.
It is llot my pnrposc lo
- npo11 these "Ccrnean
'' nor to cnkr into a
rdati1'e to the authcnticif\·
claims for '\Iasonic rccng11i1io11. fl bccilllh'S my duty, how·e1·er, to declare tlH·i11 clandc•stine. and 1mlawful intrmkrs in this
Grand Turisdiction,
Wliilc as fl[ astc'r ::Cfa:-ons
knowledge of any
111 our
Lodges, over which
oi
holds
.imis(fiction, it is an
fact that we ha 1·e long hceu
friendly
relations and dwelling in
with o:hcr ]\[ :bonic
holding jurisdiction over other lk>'.rccs of hoth the American and the
Scottish Rites of
- to
The Crall(! Roval 1\rch
Chapter, the Grand Council
the
of High Priesthood, the
Grand Council
and Select
the Grand Commandcry of Knight
, ;rnd the Supreme
of the Southern
zuris~!ictioi; of the United Stat.es, of the Ancient and .\cceptcd
Sc<?tt1sh Rite, and the various Cram! and subordinate bodies with
which
arc in corrcspomkncc.
.
It i.s. moreover. a well established precedent in onr own and
111 our s1:.:tcr Jl1rtsd1ct1011s that there ran he hnt one legitimate source
of authority 01Tr any regular branch of Frccrnasnnrv in any grand
jurisdiction.
·
Hence the
bodies of tlic ,·:irio1r' l:ranchcs of our
which \1'1'rc
recognized. and have c.;incc continuonslv exercised authority onr the various i\Iasonic degrees,
to 'be regarded as regular. and ;\s lawfnllv rntitkd to
and furthern~orc
arc entitled to ou'r approval and
in the
exercise of
privileges.
It follows,
that the l'ntrancc amon~,. us of other and
questionable authorities, purporting to confer th; same
irregular and clandestine, and if we as .!>laster ~fasons
our acti~·e .
and support we arc engaging 111
winch wrll disrupt
established harmony of the Craft.
.. In ;cgard to. the .sn-callct! "Ccrneau Bodies," many of our
s1st.cr Crawl J unsd1ct10ns have not only rdti:;cd to recognize
their lcgal!ty. lmt, m
number of instances, have forbidden ·their

hrcthrcn to aifiliate with them, under \Knalty of expulsion from the
Order.
·
·
From the records we note the followrng
actlnn
o f G,rancI L ocl gcs
and (~rand ;\!asters :
.
, .
Alabama, 1889: California, 1891; flnmla, 1889; L?t11sia11a,
1890· :\linnesnta, 1890; Montana,--; N~braska, 18~0; New Jer~
sc,._
; New :\lcxico. 1890; North Carolma, 1892; North Dakota,
J8S9; Ohio, 1887, 1888, 1889, South Dakota,, 1889; Texas: 1~90;
Utah. 1889; expressed condemnation of the 'Cerneau Bodies· as
spurious and clandestine.
, .
•
Alabama. Oklahoma, Colorado, ·Montana, flonda, Idaho, Io.wa,
](entl1cb-. ;\l assachusctts, :'.\'1innesota, Mon'.ana, ~ e.bra~ka, l'< ew
Jl ampshfrc, Arkansas and \Vyoming have gwen d1stmctlv_e recognition to the
Councils of the Scotti.sh Rite, of either the
:\ orthcrn or
Jurisdictions of the Umted States: or of both.
Twcll'c of our sister Grand Lodges haYc prohibited Ivfas~er
}[asons from receiving degrees from or affiliati;ig with any boches
purporting to confer said degrees not so reco~mzed.
.
In Georgia, Kentucky . .lllassaehusetts,_ ;\h~mesota. _Ohio, Oregon and \Vyoming the penalty for .said action is expulsion._.
.
Jn Ohio. Pennsykama and :\orth Carolma. the prn1legc of
1 ·isiting Symbolic Lodges is clenied to ,"Ccrnean l\faso:1s.'.'
The Supreme Council of the .Soutl;,ern Juns~ict10.n,, of. the
l)nited States, cmnmonly known as the .Mothey Council ?t t~e
world, was originally organizccl at Charleston, ~onth Carolma, m
1801 and from this source ha1·e sprung twenty-nme o~her Supreme
Com;cils, scattered over the civiEzecl w.orld, all of which are working in harmonious fraternal rclat,10ns with ea1;h nth.er. Of the ~f<;re­
'aid ").!other Council" for the Southern Junsd1ct1on of t~e lJmted
·States. our Senior Past Grand Master, Hon. James
Richar<lso~,
is Grand Commander, with headquarters at . \\'.ashmgton, D., C.
The Supreme Council for the :N ortb~r,i~ J unsd1ct10n was or~amzc<l
hi' authoritv of the "Mother Counc1l' m 1809, and of thts body
Jim;. Barto;1 Smith, of Toledo, Ohio, is (;rand Con:n:ander.
In yiew of the facts as above set forth, and reahzmg the necessitv of prompt action on our part to preserve the harmony and
w~lfare of 01'1· own household, I most earne.stly recommend that
this Grand Lodge accord its fraternal recogmt1011 and approval to
tlw Cram\ Roval Arch Chapter, the Crand Council of the Order of
Hiol; Pricstl1(iod. the Grand Council of Royal and Select Maste;s,
the Grand Commandcry of Knights Trnipbr of Tennessee, with
which we have been in friendly relntionsh1p rnr many years; also to
the Supreme Council (Mother Conncil, of the Vv orld~ of ~he
_\ndent and
Scottish Rite ?f l•reemasonry, 'J.'.hirty-th1rd
and Last Degree.
the Southern J unsdi.ct1on of t!1c 1:Jmte? States,
which has long maintained active snhord1nate_ bodies m _this ~tate;
that we acknowledge the :\Iasomc legality ot these various Gr~nd
Bodies and their subordinates to the exclus10n of all others .clmmiiw to confer the same degrees; and that we further recogmze the
atrthenticity of such other Grand and G_cneral Grand Bodies of the
same Rites, with which said Grand Bodies may hold fraternal relations, including the Provincial Grand Lodge of the Royal Order of
Scotland.
·
·
I
r furtherrnore recommend that such leg1slation be enactcl as
will most effectually protect the entire fraternity in Tennessee from

J?.

aml

REPORT OX COIUtESPOXDENCID.

w,;PORT OX CORHl~8PONDf<JNCI~.

140

the in\asi(Jll or inroads of :l11y urgani~a!inn not
recognized which
pnrp01 l> to confrr
of the degrees of Freemas 0111-,·.
. l_lad 1t not heen
the close proximity of our an-nual commu111cat1011, when tl11s matter came
attention,
should have
1ss~ied a_n offTal
Lodges against participa __ mg :11 >«1~ 1 a
.
As it co1;1es to me at
tluo }~~e !'.om. 1 dc~rn~d it_ my _
.
i_t to the Grand Lodge
for ,1,ch ctctlon ::io, Ill its soyere1gn capacity, 1t mav regard as wise
and best for the harmony of the Craft.
·
The aho1·c portion oi the Crand :'.\laster's adtln:s.< \\'aS referred to
the Con'.rnittcc on Jnrisprndcncc, am] their report, which \\"as adoplt'd,
was as lullows:
Your conmiitlee have careiully considered the \'t:r\" serious mattc:rs reported
the Crcrnd :'.\faster undn this
- and wishin,;
to c:xpress
the decisicrn of the Crantl
upon the
sub1,·ct .. and yc:t tu an1id
that
S('em to he harsh
a1:d unl!:~'.ternal !01\"zcrd those .
may han:
kd into improp~r
":tiun,. 1 ( C\lmmend t~w adoption of the follo\\"ing preamble and
n solut1011 as _the pos1tw11 hchl by the Cram! L0<ln«; of Tennessee
upon this subject:
"'
-·
Thus far in the hi.story oi the Cram! Lo<l<>e of
Jcnncssee, . '.11Hl .\. :\L, there has been no official cleclarati 1~ 1 de;,lllll!S the yanous. :\fasomc orgauizations which are re<>arde<l ·is
leg1llmatc by tins Crand Lodge; and
"'
'
.. \·VHJ.;;REAs. ComHtions liaYc arisen which. for the welfare of the
fr:1t;·in1t,;;, make it. 1111plTat1vc that a dci"111ite declaration lie made
I!} lrns (,rand Lodge, so that ;1H hrcthreu in this jurisdiction 111 a,- !Jc
lully .m fonncd, and not lw miskd and irnluccd to accept mcmlJcrm. so-caHcd l\tasomc botlics which arc hclcl Liv this Gram!
to be mtrmlcrs; therefore be it
·
. . . .
That the following: are the only
existmg wnhm _the J nnsd1ct1m1 of the Cran cl Lodge
which
ar,· recogmzcd as :'.\fasomc hy this Cra11cl Lmlo-e to \\"it·
,
(1
All Masonic Lodges created bv autl snbonli1~atc to this
(,rand
1

oi

of

141

member of a J\lasonic Lodge under the j urist!iclion oi this
aiding
abetting such iutrusion and <iistmhancc
himself to Masonic condemnation.
eign

Brother Henry A. Chambers, chairman of the Committc:e on Forsubmits his report, in whkh California, 1913, is

fraternally and intelligently reviewed.
Brother Chambers in his introduction refers particularly to the
matter oi conforcnccs of Crane\ '.\!asters. Upon the whole, we judge
that he concnrs in our opinion that sulJ-rnnsciously, perhaps, iu the
minds of a great many of tho;;c who ;,\tend these coufel"l'nccs there is
:he thought of the formation of a General or :'.'\ ational Cranrl Lodge,
which purpose, howc,·cr, is distinctly at all times disclaimed.
\Ve think we arc jnstilied in lwlicdng that Brother Chambers' conclusion is that nmfcrcnccs of this character rcs11lt in no particular good
and bctt\'f be disconti1rncd. The ;o;ocial feature is all right. It affords
a fine opportunity for a lot of cxcclknt gentlemen to get
ancl
enjoy thcmsch·cs through social iutcrconrsc ail\! elaborate entertainment.
which is u;.;uaJly pnl\idccl by the Cram\ LoclgC" ac·ting as ho:;t, lmt aside
from thc;;c social fratures, which impose no inco1bidc·rahlc hunkn of
c·xpcnsc upon the host. no particular good is accomplish<:<i.
Brother Chambers in hi:: introduction discusses other i11tf'rcsti11,;
topics and we arc
to rckr those \d10 enjoy fuller infnrmalion
upon current J\J awuic topics, to a full
uf I\ rothn Chamhcrs'
introduction.
THOMAS

J. l3oNXl'.R, Ri,·es, Crancl I\Iastcr.

JonN B. GARRETT, Kashvilk, Grand Secretary.

TEXAS.

1913.
Jn compli:rnce with ti;c prm·isrnns of the Constil11tion of the ]\fo,;t
\\'tm'11ipfol Craml I;m\gc of Tcx;u;, ,\ncicnt Free am! ;\cccptctl
:'.\fosnm, t11c
Gra!Hl .-\nnual Communication was !wl<l
at the '.\Iasonic Temple, in the City of \Vaco, commencing on Tuesday,
the 211d day of December, A D. 1913, A. L. 5913, at 10 o'cL1ck a. Ht.,
Crand :\laster J. J. 1'Iansfield presiding«
Tc:-:as and N cw Jersey are, we believe, the two Grand Jurisdictions
in America which have the most extensive dealings with so-called
visible physical dciccts.
In the year
in Texas, the Grand Master was requested
to pass upon 162 cases of
deiects. Kinety-six, we arc informed, of these cases he allowed to petition, and in sixty-six cases,
permission to petition for degrees was rdnsed.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCK

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

It would strike a casual observer that pretty nearly all of the spare
time of the Grand l\faster must be devoted to \veighing the pros and
cons of cases of physical defects.

Some of the decisions accepted without question by our Texas
brethren, produce a feeling of wonderment, even though we believe
that the moral preception of the good people on the Pacific Coast is as
high as exists in the Lone-Star State. For instance, here is one:
It was decided that a Lodge cannot place a billiard or pool table
in a building used for Lodge purposes, nor could they permit dominos
to be played in the anterooms. The Grand Master states that such
would be a gross violation of the l\Iasonic Law, and the Lodge so
off ending could not reasonably hope to retain its charter, "for so long
a single day." As stated above, we wonder why?
Yet, notvvitbstancling this ruling about pool tables and dominos, the
Grand ::\faster held it no impropriety that the ladies of the Eastern
Star, in giving a program of entertainment in the Lodge room, and
rooms adjacent thereto, might indulge in a representation of a Virginia
Reel to be participated in by a few selected couples of the most elderly
members, etc., in other words, "dancing but not dominos."
The Grand Jurisdiction of Texas is a fine jurisdiction, one of the
nry best in the world. It's ;\fasonic Orph~n's Home may be almost
considered, a model of its kind, and the Masonry of Texas is of a
splendid type in every way; so if we observe some trifling peculiarities,
touching the matter of visible physical defects, and express a little
wonderment at some of the so-called decisions, we do not intend therebv
to say a word in
of the magnificent hodv of men who bea.r
aloft the banners
11Iasonry in Texas.
.
After the death of Past Grand Master Thomas M. Matthews, who
for twenty-five years. prepared the annual report on
Correspondence, the position of Correspondent was assigned to Past Grand
Master George W. Tyler.
Brother Tyler is not a novice in this line of work, as he made the
report on Correspondence in 1887. He was at that time chosen Junior
Crancl \Varden and in due time became Grand Master.
His present report is an excellent production in which California,
1912. is considered in a fraternal spirit.

142

Concerning the
common in most of the Grand Jurisdictions of the United States to confer degrees by one Lodge at the
request of, and for the benefit of another Lodge, the Grand ::\faster has
this to say, and inasmuch as the practice of Texas differs from the
practice of most other jurisdictions, the matter will be of general interest :
Possibly all of the Grand Lodges of the United
except
Texas, permit one
to confer degrees for the
of another. The laws
other Grand Masonic Bodies of
state also permit the conferring of degrees in like manner.
the reason that this Grand Lodge has
different rule in this respect. there has resulted much confusion and annoyance. ::\fore
especially has this heen the case since the mobilization of the
United States army in Texas, on account of the disturbed conditions in our neighboring
Many army officers and
who were elected to
in other states were ordered
to
state before receiving
These
through their
respective Grand ]1viasters have made requests to
the degrees
conferred hy the Lodges of this state. assuring us that it would be a
pleasure for them to be permitted to return the favor should an
opportunity offer. It has on many occasions been a great disappointment to be compelled by law to refuse permission for this
favor to be extended, and our Lodges, so far as heard from
the subject wonld be delighted to show such fraternal fayor to
hrethren at home or abroad.
therefore, recommend that our
laws be
amended as to
conferring of degrees by one
Lodge
another. on
duly elected, and with proper
dispensation therefor
by the Grand ]\faster.
The recommendation which the Grand 1\faster makes that the laws
he amended so as to
the conferring of degrees by one Lodge
for the benefit of another, was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence with request that they report at the next annual Comnmnication.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand
Lodge of the. Philippine Islands.
Concerning the request of the Grand Lodge of France for recognition, the committee reported that they were not satisfied that this
Grand Lodge was a legitimate Masonic hody, and the request for
recognition was therefore denied.
The Jurisdiction of Texas is enjoying a marked degree of prosperity. Active Lodges now number 876. showing a membership of
58,724, a gain in membership over the preceding years of 2653.

143

The closing paragraphs of Brother Tyler's conclusion are as follows·
, 1'\ O\.'', a w01:d. reminiscent, to our Brother correspondents.
J< rom Ills report 111
writer quotes :
."To his brethren
'Corps Reportorial' he would say that
unlrnlden, unheralded he entc~ed the 'Guild,' looked over your
shoulders, gathered up a few nnmortelles to deck the \Vreath of
T\x_as
and sil~ntly
his departure-in all probability not to return. He (hd not
down at your
left no
vacant chair when he withdrew, and will not be missed. He
however, with pleasure to your bright
and
<ll:ict1tss1or1s and will carry with him through life a
memorv of your cordial and Fraternal behavior. It was good to be
there."

144

REPORT ON CORRESPOND.l!JNCE.
That was written twenty-six years ago. Around that table
were seated such noted brethren as Chadwick, Chapin, Drummond, Diehl, Drinkard, Fellows, Gurney, Innis, Pillans, Parvin,
Pierson, Reid, Singleton. Simons, Vinci!, Vaux ancl Zeigler. What
a galaxy! But all, all arc gone. Not one of them is alive today!
Ancl now, with some acl<lccl years, the writer again bows to
the "Correspondence Corps" of today, and, whether he remains
long or again departs. he enjoys the honor of your brief association and brings to your ''hoard" the hearty and cordial greetings
of the Fraternity in "Grand Old Texas."
]. ]. l\IANSI!JE'.Ln,

Grand Master, Columbus.

]oHN VI/ ATSON, Grand Secretary, yvaco.

VERMONT.

1914.
The frontispiece of the Proceedings 1s an excellent portrait of
Crand ~laster Eugene S. VI/ es ton.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of Vermont was
held at St. Johnsbury, July 29, 1913, for the purpose of dedicating the
new Masonic Temple erected there by the fraternity.
The dedicatory address was delivered by Hon. C. H. Darling of
Burlington. He gave utterance to some excellent thoughts and we
excerpt from his address as follows:
This is an extraordinary era. The age is restless. It is a
time of discontent, of complaint, and of dissatisfaction. It is a
time when olcl things ancl old ways seem out of place. The Sermon
on the Mount, the Golden Rule, and the Ten Commandments, are
out of fashion. It is an age of fault finding, when every man, like
the Pharisee, thanks Goel that he is not as other man are. Men
feel that their lot in life is hard. and think that forces outside
themselves are the cause. We seek to improve our own conditions
by correcting others. We rarely hear the old Scriptural injunction,
that whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, or, that contentment
is the key to happiness. The family Bible is no long-er blotted,
blistered. with the tears of those that have found comfort and
rest unto their souls.
NO'L' ,\LL PROGRESS.

Growth implies a change in all the parts. But, unfortunately,
change has become so associated in our minds with growth that
we have confused the real distinction between that which causes
growth and the change which is associated with decay and dissolution, and we are being led to believe that all change is growth,
and we describe it under the general name of progress.
Now, progress is an act of eliminating the useless. So that
the conservative, or one who is guided by the true principles of the
past, is under suspicion, and one who abides in doctrines as sound
as Holy Writ is in clanger of being looked upon as out of elate
and behind the times.

RB~POH.T

ON CORRlDSPONDENCK

145

THE CRY "\G,\lKST WE.\LTH.

, T~e reclis:.ributi?n and acqu~sition of property is the allaLsorb1ng consiclerat101:-thc pulpit, the press, the platform the
workma_n, the professional man, the student all arc e
' · cl
over this quest10n.
'
xercise
.
Some, affect to show .by ar~ument that n~oncv or wealth, itself,
els. we~l as the lov~ of riches, is a great evil; but the fact is, all
w~m.t, It: an~. t.hat is_ the larger part of the whole question. The
m111,istc1 dectum~ h1~11self hoarse on the evil of riches. and then
passes
·
f or
cl the f eo11tnbut1on
l 1
· box. The labor . ora-l111'zati'
,..,, -' 011 clrgues
f
.re~. ~m o t 1~ abormg man and the rights of labor, and then
~tnkcs clown 111s f_ellow workman, who wants to work while he is
idle. The an.arch1st shouts for personal liberty, and throws the
deadly bomb mto the crowd. In the language of the villian Iago
th.c cry has gone forth: Put money in thy nurse. Fill th .
'
with money.
purse
>

)

* * *
~ ~an conceive of. n,o greater misfortune to our country than a

c~n~ltt1on o.f self.-sat1shccl. case and idleness, when citizens are
w1llmg to ltve without tot!, o: who are willing, unnecessarily, to
accept of the support and chan~y. of others, either private or public.
~h.e tendency of old commu111t1cs, as may be illustrated by the
~1t1es of the old world, is to build up a pauper class, a class born
n~ po~Terty, ":ho are r~ared, and who die in poverty. As Ruskin
;"ys,
h_ere is a "'.orkm~ class, strong and happy, among both rich
ctnd po01 ; H~ere 1s an idle class, weak, wicked, and miserable
among both rtch ancl poor."
'
. The d~si~c for luxury and t.h~ desire for idleness go hand in
hand. It b d p~)pular hut per111c1ons growth. and a change that
makes for anythmg but progress.

* * *

. ~assing over the. chur~h: probably no institution may trace its
pr!nciplcs to an ~arlter ongm. It has gathered unto itself someth~ng of the ancient Egyptian mysteries. It has received someth!ng from the study of astronomy, the most ancient of human
sciences th_at commenclecl the contemplation of the shepherd as he
wat~hecl his sheep upon a thousand hills. or the bold and ancient
ma.nner as he put out upon the vast and lonely waste of waters
gmde.d only by the serene and s~lent pathway of the stars. It
~specially shows tra\es of the Drm?s. the worshippers of the sun.
And the moon and tne stars are objects of its consideration.

* * *

.
Toil, unremitting toil, is the lesson of the past. The pot of
111cei,1se .. th.e s.cythc, and the hour:glass, are constant reminders of
~nan s 111111tat10n.
~ut the bee-hive. the symbol of industry, has
ctlways been a favorite emblem of Masonic care
By the practice of two orinciplcs, industry a.nd economy man's
w?rld_ly wants are supplied. \:Vithout economy none can be rich
with 1~ none c~m be poor. .While industry has gathered unto itself
the fairest f nut~ and the richest :ewarcls. To the faithful Mason
~he decre~ that 111 the sweat of his face man should eat his bread'
~s a blessmg rather than a curse, and promotion in our institutim~
is to those who Lest can work and best agre2.

* * *

146

REPORT ON CORRESPONDI<JNCI<J.
But the example of the temple builder .sc~·ves a higher purpose.
There arc jewels not found at the goldsnuth s shop, and there are
pursuits, purpose:; and rewards that 11.0 gold. can purchase.
The influence of the cathedral wtll outhYe the market place.
The immortal frescoes painted by
I\ngclo, or the wonderful conception of Christopher \Vrcn.
last Grand Master of
operative Masonry. were not cxecutec~ because nJ a contract, any
more than the soldier at Bunker 11 ill or at Gettysburg fou~l1t
because he was under pay from the governm~nt: The conception
and inspiration were higher, nobler, more patriotic. .
It is said of the great general ·wolfe, that the mght before .he
iell at Quebec, he paced up and down restle~sl{' u~on ~the Pla111s
of Abraham, repeating those fateful words ot (,ray s Elegy:
''The boast of heraldry. the pomp of pO\ver
And all that beauty and all that wealth e'er gave,
Await alike the inevitable hour,
The paths of glory lead but to the grave."
and turning to a soldier said, with almost propheti.c vision of his
death on the morrow, that he would rather have written that poem
than take Quebec.
.
Such are the traditions of our instituti?r~, as they lead its followers onward and upward, until the sp1nt moves in harmony
\Vith the Grand Architect of the universe.
"Quench not the spirit,
Despise not prophesymg,
Prove all things,
Hold fast that which is good.''

The Nlost \i\T orshipfnl Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of Vermont convened in its rooms in the Masonic Temple; city of Burlington, on \i\T ednesday, the 10th clay of Junc, A. L.
5914, at the hour of 10 o'clock in the forenoon. Grand l\Iastcr Eugene
S. \i\T es ton presiding.
Before delivering his annual address the Grand Master welcomed
to the East a distinguished visitor in the person of :\f · · · \V · · · Everett C.
Renton, Past Grand l\faster of Massachusetts.
The Grand Master reports a prosperous condition of the Craft, the
total membership being 13,874, as compared with 13,610 the year previous, showing a net gain of 269.
He reports a large number of visitations to suhordinate Lodges
and upon each occasion notable results for good following.
He reports having attended the centennial anniversary of Mt.
Vernon Lodge No. 8. Mt. Vernon Lodge, it appears, was one of the
fifteen Lodges that were so
during the bitter anti-Masonic war
as to be proclaimed by the Grand Lodge in 1849 as being alive.
·The Report on Correspondence is, as usual, by Past Grand 1\faster
"i\Iarsh 0. Perkins.

California, 1913,
fully considered, particular reference
made
to the ceremonies of dedication of the new l\Iasonic Temple in San
Francisco, with generous <1ttotatio11s from the addresses made at that
time.
Brother Perkins observes that the one subject which is now receiving more attention than any other one matter connected with l\fasonry
in the United States
the so-called annual conferences of Grand Masters. Our views coincide with his own upon this subject and we commend to the careful perusal of our brethren his comment upon these
meetings, as follows :
Possiblv the
general interest noted in
the Proceeclings,
the conference of GrancJ
l\Iasters and the
At time of writing, we have
not heard from
very recent gathering at St. Louis, but
assume it to have been fully as enjoyable, as a social function
as any that have preceded it in the past few years. The fast
conference,
to this one, was held in Indianapolis :i\Iarch 17
1913, by
of l\l.'. W.'. Elmer F. Gay then
'
l\Iaste1:
of Indiana. Its proceedings have been wideiy
and its
emphatic declaration that no ~ational (;rand Body could be
thought of for a moment has heen received, as it were with "extreme unction." But for all that, what is the actual tre;1d of
conferences? \Ve belie,·e it to be in one direction onlv. viz.:
ccntraliz<~tion of Ma~oni~
; the wea.kening a11d deadening
the \'ltal energy of l,rand
sovereignty. Not jus; now,
of the present state of
public opinion. But graclua lly and ultimately hy insidious approaches through these c-onferences. Protestations of "I will ne'er
" as heard at Indianapolis, have had many a
repetition of
" Such we
believe to be a grave
of
frequent gatherings. In
his discussion of this question,
1\1.'. \V.'.
Bro. Henry A. Chambers, not only expresses
our own
belief but that of many another observer on the watch-towers:
The brethren who have participated
have honestly deceived themselves into
ferences do not support or
the
Lodge. But possibly our
much. The very fact that they issue
is in their minds, and
they know it
the
of others.
Otherwise there
no need of protestation. It may be too,
that most of those who have attended these Conferences in the
past are opposed to a ::\" ational Grand Lodge. But they have put
an influence in motion they cannot possibly control.
Already Oregon has come boldly into the open. The Grand
Master of another jurisdiction attempted certain legislation, merely
hecause of some of the enunciations of the Indianapolis conference.
An eminent leader in still another jurisdiction plants himself by
the side of Brother Mikels of Indiana, in his earnest championship
of what he
to believe to be a righteous cause. At least
one of our
highly esteemed confreres of the guild acknowledges he has
sought this opportunity," ancl his influence is

148

RJ<jPOHT Or'\ CORRl<JSP00JDJ<j0:"CK

plainly manifest in papers emanatinl? recent!;· from tl~e Grand Eas_t
of his jurisdiction. Oth~rs of prommence, r_1ght_ly adJudgc<l, stro~g,
influential men arc wdtmg the wedges, wl?1ch 1f not checked mcty
split in time ~ith ir!·esistiblc force the soh~l ro~k. T~:ese :re but
few of the 0111111 01·s signs, the more so because w1clcly sc<1tterc<l, that
onght not to he clisregarcled. Their app;a~an~e now can he .trace~
to these conferences. In all candor, 1sn _t 1t ;~~11e to ask senousl_y,
"\Vhat is the actual trencl of these gathermgs'
CrL\RLES H. DAHLING, Grancl Master, Burlington.
lh:x1n- fl. Ross, Grand Secretary, Burlington.
VICTORIA.
1913.

.\ Quarterly Communication was held at Freemasons' Hall, Melbourne. l\Iarch 19, 1913, l\I.'. \V.'. Brother Rev. E. T. Holden, Grand
}.faster, on the Throne.
The following is an interesting letter recorded in the Proceedings
of this Quarterly Communication from a brother who in distress had
been permitted to partake of the beneficence of Australian Masonry.
The letter gin's an idea of a certain phase of what is true Masonry,
and for that reason it is quoted herewith as follows:
4. In 1'900 a member of the Golden Thistle Lodge No. 840,
S. C.. Coolgarclie, Western Aust_ralia, received relief from tJ1e
hoard to the extent of f3. ~ othmg further was. heard of h!m
until 24th Fehrnarv, 1913, "vhen a l~tter was recewed from him
from Alaska, U. S. A. The followmg extracts . are taken fr_om
the letter: "Some time in the year. 1900 I lanc~ecl in your beautiful
city of M elbournc from Coolgarche, W. A .. if not broke, I was
indeed baclly bent, having been rohhe<l on the steamer on my way
round from vV. A. Consequently I was reluctantly comp~lled _to
applv to your Grand Lodge for assistance; ])l~t, alas! not 1r: vam.
T n;ust sav that it is indeed one of the hnghtest spots 111 my
memory ~hen I look back and think (_)f the open-handed and
lH·otherly manner in which I was re_ce1ved, and the courteous
treatment extended to me. I do not mten_<l flattery when I say
that there is no country, place, or people 111 the whole world to
my mind where a clow1;-and-.out 111;111 would ?e accorded s~1ch
hospitality and kincl C(_)ns1deration. The At~strahans .. to my mmd,
are the grandest ancl biggest-hearted people 111 the u111verse.
I am enclosing P. 0. for 20 dollars, t? cover the amo~nt ~f your
Jo;m to me, which, by the way, I tl;mk was so_methmg h_ke £~.
T am allowing the extra money for mter~st. which I cons_1der is
vour clue; shoulcl you not care to accept 1t for that, why, .iust let
it go towards helping some other poor unfortunate who hap~cns to
he up against it real harcl. the same as T was. I call !O mm<l an
olcl saying that he askecl for bread and they handed him a stone,
hut it was not so in my case. T asked for breacl and you han~lecl
me pie
T take this opportunity to pay off all my old bills,
an cl commence the ne\v yea_r ~resh and with _a. c~,ean sheet. Trusting that you will accept t111s 111 the same sp1nt.

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

149

From the Grand S<i;.::retary's report we learn that the membership
of the jurisdiction at this time is 14,477; that there arc 223 constituted
.Lodges, and that the membership made a gain over the preceding year
of 1029.
t
The jurisdiction is in splendid financial condition, which may be
said generally of all of the Australian Grand Lodges. ,\ large amount
is disbursed each year in the way of annuities to deserving brethren,
and the l\Jasonic functions of relief and brotherly lo,·e are exemplified
in a most striking manner.
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge of Victoria was
also held at Freemasons' Hall, Melbourne, June 18, 1913.
A memorial to the memory of the late Grand Treasurer, V. ·. W. ·.
Duncan Shaw Smith, was adopted. His demise was altogether sudden and unexpected, ancl produced a feeling of profound grief throughout the jurisdiction.
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge of Victoria was
also held September 17, 1913, at Freemasons' Hall, Melbourne.
Reports of the Board of Benevolence and the Board of General
Purposes were adopted, and business of a general nature transacted.
The final Quarterly Communication of the year was held on December 17, 1913, at Freemasons' Hall, Melbourne, at which officers for
the ensuing year were elected, reports adopted, etc.
There is no report on correspondence.
Bro. the Rev. ALBERT THos. HoLDISN, B. A., Grand Master.
Bro. CHARLES ]AMES BARROR, P. D. G. M., Grand Secretary.
VIRGINIA.
1914.

The One Hundred and Thirty-sixth Grand Annual Communication
of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted
l\f asons of the State of Virginia was begun and held in the Masonic
Temple in the city of Richmond, on Tuesday, the 10th day of February, A. L. 5914, A. D. 1914, Grand Master William L. Andrews presiding.
From the opening of the Grand l\Iaster's address we quote as
follows:
From time to time our Lodges meet ancl we are there to give
that light that we've rec.eivttcl; to teach the lesson of a moral life,
the beauties of an open hand, and point the way that leads to
purer, better things and help to welcome in that morn when men
shall stretch their shackled hands to Goel ancl hear the plaudit
of "well clone."
'Tis well to do these things, nor would I blame because there
is a tendency to multiply degrees, for each degree reveals a needed

150

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC~::.
lesson; and yet each clay persuades that what we lack is not "more
light,'' but grace to make our lin:'s accorcl with that we have. that
not in empty words but in prompt deeds exists the Yitai principle of
l\Tasonry.
Th; new years cla wn an cl die and hopes they waken sleep again,
wrapped in forgetfulness, ancl deeds we fain \vould do remain 1111done when night descends; yet let us not despair, but put our trust
i11 liim who, in 1 lis own good time, shall give fruition to our fondest
thoughts.

Dispensations were granted within the year by the Grand Master
tu form two new Lodges.
The Grancl l\J aster reports a splendid condition of the Masonic
Home. although, with 79 chilclrcn. he states that it is crowded to the
limit and that there is pressing need for more accommodations.
He speaks also of the Olcl l\Tasons' Horne, but expresses the fear
that the opening of this institution must be deferred because the building· set aside for the purpose was clestroyecl by fire recently, and the
Cram! l\Iaster remarks that, it is apparent if the Grand Lodge holds to
its desire to provide a suitable home for the old l\Iasons, it must first
provide the necessary money, etc.
The Grand Master reports that for the first time in many years
the Grand Lodge is out of debt and has sufficient funds by practice of
economy to pay its way for the current year.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Jos. \V. Eggleston, an excellent report, full of intelligent comment and
judicious selections for quotation from the Proceedings of the various
Cran cl J urisclictions.
California failed to secure a place in the report.
P. K. BAUM1\N, Grand Master, Lloyds.
CH \RLl~S .!\. Nr.sm'I'T, Grand Secretary, Richmond.
WASHINGTON.
1913.

'J'hc picture of ).f ost \\T orshipful Frank :.:-J. l\TcCanclless. Cran cl
).Ltstcr of 1912 and 1913, forms the frontispiece of the Proceedings.
The Fifty-sixth Annual Communication of the Most vVorshipful
Crarnl Lodge of Free and Accepted ::\Tasons of Washington convened
in the City of :\lierckcn. on Tuesday, the 10th clay of June, A. D. 1913,
.\. L. 5913, and was callccl to order l1y the l\I.' .W.'. Crancl Master at the
hour of 10 o'clock a. 111., M. ·. \V. ·. Frank N. McCandless presiding.
An address of welcome to the Grauel Lodge was delivered by
Jlrnthcr lfolJcrt Sehasti:rn of ;\Jwnlecn Lodge No. 52.
1T e incidcntk cloes some lioosting for Aberdeen, and the response
11l tlw .\rldrc:-;-; o-f \Vcknme w;ts, ;it the request of the Most Worshipful

Rl~l'OHT

ON COHRJBSPO~DIB~CE.

151

Crancl ::.raster, made hy Ju11i11r Grand \\r:mkn Brother Ccorgc R.
::\Ialcolm.
Brother Malcolm also incidrntally expressed his lwlid that the City
of Aberdeen is the most progressive city in the State of \Vashington,
to all of which we presume that Seattle and Tacoma would readily
agree, to say nothing of the acr1uicsccncc of Spokane and several other
thriving cities in the hustling Stat~ of \Vashington. In any event
Brothers Scb1stian and :'.\lalcolm clicl the hest they knew how to
metaphorically, at least put Aberdeen on the map.
Grand Master l\lcCandlcss made a straight-forward business-like
report, in which he concisely set forth his official acts within the year.
lie particularly referred to the placing of corner stones of four public
buildings; to the dedication of at least one beautiful :l\fasonic Temple
at Yakima; to the constitution of scwral Lodges that rcccivccl their
charters at the preceding Annual Communication; to the issuance of
dispensations to form six new Lodges, to say nothing of a great many
minor official performances.
He referred to the lrnilding of the Masonic Home, which had progressed. somewhat slowly in the year preceding on account of delays of
contractors, etc., but he cxprcssecl the hope that the building would be
completed in the near future.
He c01kluded !1is excellent address in a truly ).[asonic manner, thus:
The corn of nourishment, not only that which is supplied to our
bodies, but also that seed which. planted in the minds of other
men, shall bring forth a harvest for good to all mankind; the
wine pf refreshment. that gives new life to the less fortunate brother
and cheers him on his way; the oil of joy, that smooths the pathway
and extends that hand of fellowship and links those pearls with
hands of gold 11 nhroke11: thus may we truly say "we have earned
the wages of life."
Upon recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence,
recognition was extended to the Grand Loclgc of vV cs tern Australia and
the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
Brother James :l\IcCormack, Grand Orator, dcli,-crccl one of the
eloquent addresses, for which the Grand Jurisdiction of vVashington is
famous, and the Orator by order of the Crancl Loclgc was tendered
a yotc of thanks, and the adclrcss was ordered printed in full in the
Proceedings .
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand }\faster
:McAllister. He reviews the various Grand . Jurisdictions in a painstaking and capable manner.
California, 1912, rccci,-cs fraternal consideration.

152

REPORT ON CORRf~SPOXDI<:NCK

\Ve quote the following from his co11clusion. as we agree absolutely with what he says upon the subject of coufcrcnccs of Grand
l\fasters:
We notice some little talk about uniformity of action among
Grand Lodges, and conferences to bring it about. Brethren, if you
want a Kational Grand Loclge, this is the way to start the movement. e\•en though that is not in mind at the present time. As we
saicl when we vvcrc with some ()f ycll1, we believe it is the inevitable
outcome of continued conferences of this character. \Vhen a large
clegrcc of uniformity has been secured ancl when the Grand Lodges
han' become accustomed to continued suggestions from such gatherings. some goocl brother will suggest how 11ice it would be to haYe a
Xational Crand Ledge, ancl they will begin to fall in line. Of
course this is not imminent, hut it is a lurking danger.
.\s.\ 11. T-l,\NKJ~RSON, Grand Master, Seattle.
11 OR.\l'I~ \V. TYL~R. Grand Secretary, Tacoma.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.

1913.

.\ portrait of the Late Right \Vorshipful Brother Richard Pether
forms the frontispiece of the· Proceedings.
.\ Quarterly Communication was held 111 the l\fasonic Temple
at Kalgoorlie on Thursday, July 25th.
The Grand Lodge was op'..'ned in Ample Form by the M.". Vv'.".
Grand l\fastcr, Bro. C. 0. L. Riley, D. D., Lord Bishop ~of Perth, at
8 p. m.
As a matter of information for our American brethren who are
not distressed over the form of a toast to any heredity over-lord or
ruler, the following concerning what is generally known as the "Loyal
Toast," may be of interest:
Since the death of His late Majesty, King Edward VII.
''Protector of the Craft," the question has been widely discussed
as to the proper form of submitting what is generally known as
the "Loyal Toast," and as much difference of opinion has arisen,
] propose to say a few words on the subject for the guidance
of the brethren in the jurisdiction. So important was the question
considered in England that the matter was thoroughly examined
by W.". Bro. J. P. Simpson, Past Assistant Grand Registrar,
who elicited much information of great interest to the Craft. In
the year 1738 the ReY. James Anderson, D. D., compiled the
English Book of Constitutions. He informs us that in 1430 in the
time of King James I, of Scotlaud, this Toast was drunk by the
Lodges in Scotland. St. Joh n's Lodge No. 3, Glasgow, have still
in their possession a celebrated chest which apparently was used
at all great Masonic functions in the 17th century, and to contain
records. Outside is carved "God Save the King and Mason, 1648,"
The next reference is to the laying of the Foundation Stone of
the new banqueting hall at Whitehall in 1607, when a purse of
broad pieces was laid upon the stone for the l\f asons to drink to

,.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

153

"The King and the Craft." In 1719 at the Festival of the year,
Dr. Desaguliers, the then Grand Master, renewed the old and
peculiar toasts and healths of Freemasonry, the first again being
"The King and Craft." At the laying of the Foundation Stone of
the Church of St. Martin's, in Campis, in the reign of George I.
1727, the toast of "The King and the Craft" was drunk with full
Masonic honours .. ] n all toast lists, whether in the 18th or 19th
ccnturv this toast holds the foremost place. At the Act of
Union. ~f "The Athol or Anticnts'' and "Senior or Modern" in
1813, the toast was given with foll Masonic honours. The Grand
Secretary of the "Antients" sets out in the minutes of his Grand
Lodge on two occasions the correct toasts to be given. In the
minutes of June, 1760, and again the minutes of September, 1761.
the authorised toast "The King ancl the Craft" he<1cls the list. On
the first date George II was King. ancl on the second George IlI,
and neither of these monarchs were Freemasons. In regard to
the Grand Lodge of Irclancl WC nncl in the Constitution published
in Duhlin in the year 1751, that when the Foundation Stone of
the Parliament House was laid, a great number of Freemasons
were present and the health of "The King and the Craft" was
drunk, and in the Book of Constitutions of the same Grand Lodge
published in 1817, the first toast is that. of "The King and the
Craft." During the lifetime of Her late Majesty Queen Victoria
the first recognised toast was "The Queen ancl the Craft." At
the Festival of the Grand Lodge of England held in May last
year, the Pro Gran cl Master, Lord Ampthill. said, in proposing
the toast:
"Brcthrnn.
gi,·e you the time-honoured toast of "The King
and the Craft," am! perhaps you will allow me just for once in a
while to say that not only is the toast time-honoured. but it has a
meaning which is not understood by all brethren. There are son~e
who think that if thev drink to the King and the Craft they arc m
one and the same h~·eath honouring His Majesty the King and
drinking· prosperity to the Craft. 1 venture to think that is not so.
I think the true significance is this-that, as Freemasons, one of
the first principles we are obliged to practice as citizens of the
world is that of loyalty to the Government under which we live,
and, above all, loyaity to the Sovereign. We cannot in conformity
with our pledges associate ourselves with any men, whether they
be Freemasons or otherwise. or whether they be men of our own
country or in foreign countries, who arc concerned in plots or
c.onspiracics, or who arc undcrmininQ; the monarchy under which
they Ji,·e. That is th',' signincance of the toast. It is a pledge to
which we might Le called upon to prove our sincere attachment, ancl
it is of that I \Vish to rcmincl you."
I agree with everything that Lord Ampthill has said, aml
hope that the first toast of the evenin~ will retain its timchonoured form-"The King and the Craft."
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge was held at
Freemason's hall, Perth, on Thursday, 24th of October, 1912.
'The following outburst of eloquence disclosed in the Grand
Master's address, touching the <lire distress caused by the dreadful

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

war into which a part of Europe had been plunged, referring as he
did at that time to the war in the Balkan Peninsula, has a tremendous
and added force in view of the present almost universal condition of
destruction and bloodslicd, now ravaging the continent of Europe:

He announced the conferring of the rank of Past Senior Grand
\Varden on Grand Secretary J. D. Stevenson.
From the report of the Board of General Purposes, it is learned
that the Grand Lodge \Vas formed in 1900. with a membership of 2,000
111 thirty-three Lodges.
Toclay there arc ninety-four Lodges with a membership of 3,949.
Scotland for many years refused to recognize the independent
character of the Grand Lodge of vVestern Australia, but finally Scotland· decided that further resisting the tide of events as useless, and
accorded recognition to W cs tern ~\ustralia as an independent Grand
Lodge.
Scotland very reluctantly yields anything that she ever
possessed, in whole or in part.
The financial showing of the Grand Lodge is excellent, and her
,charity disbursements have been of a very liberal and generous order.
The Report on Correspondence is hy a committee, consisting of
several members, and the member reviewing each individual jurisdiction appends his initials to indicate the author.
California. 1912, is intelligently considered and quotations made
frum the reports of Grand Master Monroe and committees.

I desire. further, to sav T am certain that cverv Freemason
the world owr must be feeling dire distress at the -thotwht that
part of Europe has been plun<>:ecl into a dreaclful war. Here we
are. helongi1rn; to a vast hodv all ovC'r the worl<l. pledged, if
nossihle. to the nrcscrvation of neacc. The verv existence of our
boclv is in orcler that we mav lin' in harmonv one with the other,
and I have always thought -that in the future, if not today, the
Masonic body might be one of the most powerful factors for
peace oyer the whole of the earth. Now. we cannot see Europe
nlumtecl in war without asking ourselves what we have clone as
lwethre11, and \vhat we han' clone as a Craft, to try and keep
pe;1c<: among the nations. Tt is not 011r business t0 enter into
1)olitical life: it is not our business to cnouire which State is right
;incl which is wrong; it is h11t our lmsiness to lament the fact
that war has ]woken out. and that, 8las ! now it is a religious war.
T mean that it seems to he a war between the Crescent ;md the
Cross. Here arc we, one of the most powerful. all-eml1racing
hoclies in the world, ancl it does seem to me that we might do
smnething to cement tog-ether the people of the world far more
tl1an WC' hav clone hitherto. T am afraid that vast numbers
of t's think it is no use doino- anvthing. and we therefore do
nothing-. I am cmivincecl mvself that if all the Grancl Lodges of
the world make up their mincls that they wm1lcl work for the peace
of hu111;111itv vcrv much might lw d011°. T do not know whether
it w011ld l1e worth while, or feasible. that our Grand Locke
should approach otlwr Grancl Loch,.es with the olJjcct of trving
to stir un public opinion the world over to make men believe
that the hest way of settling disputes between nations is not
]i,- the final arbitrament of arms, which hrimts untold horror
and 11ntokl miscrv and suffering 11uon the widows and orphans,
and thP weak and the homeless, h11t it would lie far better if
peacdt1l mctl1ods can he aDnlied to the .c;olution of the difficulties
of the ag-e. Now, you will forgive me, I am sure, for expressing
these' thotHrhtc; th;it we. who have l1nuncl ourselves together 11nder
the hanner of neac0 ancl han1101w, c:innot see men at each other's
thro;1ts \vith011t frding that we can lift up our voices to the Great
.\ rchitect of the Univers0 to hri1w: men once more to their senses,
:1rnl let them 11nclerstanrl once more that ncac" ancl harmonv are
infiniteh- gTanclcr than shvinq and maimimr, and that if men are to
he true. mC'n thcv shotilcl allow the nohler nassions of iusticC' and
rig-ht and h;irmonv and pe;ice to nrE'vail rather than that which is
lwut:il anc1 low and dei;>Tadi1w. T heg vour oardon, brethren, for
sncaki110- thus, lwt as a hrothcr Mason T cannot see what is g-oing
nn in F,11rope without feelimr th;it T at Inst have not clone what
T 111io·l1t haw clone to ce111"nt the feeling of friendship which ought
to exist hctwecn every ci,·ilizcll natil111.
0

The ,'\nnual Communication of this Grancl Lodge was held at Fr~e­
maso11s' lT all in Perth, April 24, 1913, the Right Revcrcrnl C. 0. L.
Riley. Lord Rishop of Perth. Grand Master, presiding.

r

155

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEKCE.

154

RRo. C. 0. L. R1u:v, Lord Bishop of Perth, Grand Master.

J. D. Sn:vENSON, Grand Secretary.
WEST VIRGINIA.
1913.

The Forty-ninth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted l\fasons of the State ·of
West Virginia, was held in the Masonic Temple at the City of Clarksburg, commencing on Wednesday, the 12th clay of November, A. D.
1913, A. L. 5913, at 7 :30 o'clock p. m., Grand Master Charles W. Lynch
presiding.
West Virginia has always been noted for its activity in what we
may call the department of operative Masonry, hecause there arc
placed. each year in West Virginia more corner stones under Masonic
auspices than any other state in the Union, no less than thirteen
ceremonies of this kincl having· been held within the preceding year.

In closing his excellent address, the Grand Master expresses very
sound and proper views upon the w;e of profanity, and upon other
subjects, as follows:
Befure cl11sing this report, it seems to me proper, though the
hypersensitiYc mav think otherwise, to invite attention to a habit 011
the par.t of a few-lm:thren to indulge in profanity, perhaps by way
of a<ld111g spice and emphasis to their conversation, as they supP?Se. The practice, though usually excused· as a habit is in direct
disregard of the teachings of Masonry.

JI

156

Rl<:PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPOlrnENCK
As a pn~~-equisite to the first and each subsequent stage in his
effort ~o o!)ta111 the .several degrees of l'vlasonry, each of us declared
111s b~licf. 111 the existence o~ a Supreme Being. Upon the Book of
Constttut1011s he ~oak upon lumself the vows of the Order. Through
each ceren1011-'> rn due fo_rm. he assented to the recognition of the
S<!ll1e c.ontroll.mg :\uthonty-an. Authority whom, by profanity, he
d1screchts. L1kew1se. he thus dtsoheys the divine command, Thou
slrn!t. not tak~ the name of the Lord thy God in vain! and the
clec1s1011. of this Grand Hody that profanitv is a lVIasonic offense.
Besides, such pr;~ctice ~s generally abliorred
gentlemen, and
.
is scld?m employed 111 their presence. If
there, it should
!11eet disapproval everywhere. One. whose conduct is refined when
111 the presence of a
should feel the same wholesome restraint
when 111 the
a gentleman. It is. therefore, the <l11ty
~if. n·cr.y
:\lason e\·e1: to remember the imperative initiatory
lllJtmctH~n, nen.>r to me11t1011 the lloly l'\ame, <:xccpt with that
rcn:rcnt1al a we due from a creature to his Creator.
. :.\Iasonr.:, though frequently, and perhaps still assailed, has contmuously ellJ?Ye~l a justly merited reputation, not only as the oldest
s~cret orgamzat101_1 no~v extant, hut also as the one most consistently true to its history, to its teachings, and to the name
a~1cl. fame generally accredited to it from time immemorial. Other
s11111la1:
.
h<~\'c surpassed it in numerical strength, but
~~;l,nc m
qualt~y. YJrtuc or. respectability of its membership.
.. I he greatest and Dest of men m all ages have been," and still are
. cncouragers and pr?mo~crs of the Art"; they "have never deemed
it
to their chgnity" to crave "its privilecres" or to frequent
. assemb~ies." Tnst_ead, they have yicl<l~d enthusiastic
loy~tlty to 1~s hcnefic~nt tcachmgs, and acquiescence in its code of
~th1cs.
It ts pre-emmently forceful and efficient in its efforts to
mculcate loyalty, generosity and manliness among men; to sustain,
:-npport and fo,;tcr every movenwnt, the purpose of which is to en1101ik the race: and to_ thwart and defeat every action, policy or
pbn. the pu1yosc or effect of \vhich would operate to destrov or
dcha\e 11:a11kmcl.
·
1 o its
arc admitted only those who entertain a
opinion of its.
procedure. Seldom indeed has anv one
the great mu.lttt~1cle
seeking and enjoying its privileges
ref~1secl to keep 1_nnolatc the secrets of the Order, or to measure
their conduct by its stancla:cls of morality and decency. Imposters
have be~n fc\\", because faithful brethren have stood at the outer
to impede access hy the unworthv.
. preside O\·er the _cleliberatio11 of such an institution, <!ven for
a. ~)rtcf twelv~ month. is the consummation of 111v Tvfasonic amb1_t1011, for ~vluch privilege I acknowledge with grateful thanks the
kmdness ot my generous brethren.

Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother Past Grand
Master George vV. Atkinson, and the report i:'l ronccded by all re·
Yi<·\\'ers to lw om· of tlw hcst of the Fil r.

157

He generously consiclcrs California, 1912, and is extremely complimentary of some of the excellent relief work done by the California
Jurisdiction.
Brother Atkinson's introduction, which is of a high order, is in
part as follows:
N ohody is responsible for \\•hat I think or write-not even
my own Grand Lodge. .:\iy vVest Virginia brethren have requested
me to write for their information what is going on in the ~lasonic
Fraternity the world over. They arc not bound by what I may
say, nor is our Grand Lodge. All they 'Yant t~ know is w.hat is
going on, and all they expect me to do 1s to give. my ver~ton of
conditions as I see them, and they reserve the nght to mdorse
or reject whatever I, as their representative, may say or
in my report. I wish, therefore, to emphasize the fact
alone am responsihle for all that may appear in what I am about
to write. No two men can see existing conditions in the same
light from the same standpoint. Consequently no one should be
censured for differing from another on matters of either Masonic
law or procedure. I may think one way. you may think another;
what does it matter if we differ and yet arc hoth seeking after
truth? vVhat all of us are working at and after is truth. reason
and ordinary common sense in all things that concern us
individuals and as brethren .
I do not anticipate that all of my brethren of the Round
·Table will agree with my ideas as to what should be <lone to
forward the interests of our great Fraternity; hut I am perfectly
sure in stating.that all of us agree that our one prime object is to
work together as one man, to build up and foster our :.\Ia~onic
institution. which has through hundreds of years proved Itself
to be a bl~ssing to the human race. It has stood for the Bible as
its great light. It has stood for truth against error. It has
stood for the right as against wrong. It has stoo<l for intelligence
against ignorance. It has stood for no class or creed. It has
stood for tolerance against intolerance. It has through all the
centuries stood for liberty against oppression. It never put a
thumbscrew on any human being. It, in a sense. has announced
to all the world that to do good is its religion. It therefore
stands out as the only vital, living organization on th~ face of the
earth whose only purpose is to help the helpless, without reference to sect or religion. This being its creed, this be~ng. its
history, this being its well known pu~p?se, as an. or~a111zat10n,
whv then should any person or any reltg10us orgarnzat10n oppose
it?- Still the Pope of Rome persists in fighting us. As an organization we are pronouncedly Christian, in a sense, as he himself
dare be. We accept the Holy Bible as the "Great Light" in
Masonry.
He cannot kick on that. vVe urge our members to treasure
up its precepts. He cannot go further. St~ll, ~e sees ~t to kick ~~t
us by the issuance of so-called bulls and diatribes agamst us as if
we are the agents of Satan to tear down the ~hurch f~r which
he, as the alleged Vice Gercnt of the only all-wise God, ts placed
here in the world to stand for and protect. I have not the honor
of a personal acquaintance with his holiness, so-called, or I ccr-

158

tai1!ly. would have whispered in his pent up ears, that he is
wh1_stl111g to ~he "pee-:,,:ees'' when he is anathematising the Masomc Fr_at~rmty <.~s bcrng an enemy to the Christian church and
the Christian religion. :t\ cvcrthcless, I as one Freemason, am
perfectly conten~ecl to let the dear old saint thunder away at us
as long as he hve~ and as long as his successors may continue
to bark on. our trail. \:Vhatever he may say of us, we will in the
future, as 111 the past, keep right on doing our duty as men and
}lasons. encleavormg to make the world happier and sweeter and
~10bler ~nd grander. The dear old Pope
keep on firing his
~noffcn~1ve .wads at us, .and we. promise him
we will keep on
mcreasmg m membcrsl11p and mflucncc in proportion to the number. of wads he may be pleased to fire at ns. \Ve a re so large and
so rndepcndent as a hody that his bird shot falls harmless at our
fret. I never yet .hav~ been ab.le to comprehend why he hates us,
;~ncl why he persists . 111 pyrsumg us.
If any one can place his
lmger on a smgle tlnng } reemasonry has ever done to decrrade
or in any \vay injure a human being, I might understand ~hv ;:;
large class of our fellow citi_zens might revile us as an organization.
1 have l~ecn a .l\fa~on for gomg <_=m a hal.f century, and I have yet to
read a .lmc of its ht era tu re that 1s anytlung but liberal, patriotic and
cnnohlmg. Bnt as to this I have said enouuh. The institution
speaks for itself. It has withstood the ston~s of the centuries.
and it promises to endure forever. "So mote it be."

It is evident that Brother Atkinson is not particularly in favor of
the Masonic Home idea. His views upon the subject were expressed in
the following paragraph taken from his "Conclusion":
. Masonic Homes, created by Grand Lodges that were not financially ahle_ to launch such institutions, are causing their owners
much anx1~ty and worry. The necessary expense of maintaining
such establishments were not properly considered, or quite a number of tl!em would never .have been entered upon. Many years
ago, I did my utmost to 1111pi~ess my brethren of the unwisdom
of launching such institntions; that they were unduly expensive;
that n~edy bretl~ren could be cared for at far less cost per capita
than 1!1 Masonic Homes; that homes (individual homes) for
Maso111c orphans could he found at comparatively a nominal expense, _wher~ they C01fld grow up and appreciate the privileges of
home-life, without bemg massed together in a so-called Children's
Home and thus be deprived of the privileges and education of
what a real home, under God, was intended to be. But, somehow, all I wrot~ and urged went for naught, and now we have on
our hands a number of half supported Masonic Homes that were
not needed, and the bre.thi:en are. being overtaxed to keep them
g?ing. No G:rand Lodge, m my Judgment, should start an indiy1dual Masomc Home, unless it has the funds on hand to endow
it fro.m the start. In most of our states societies have been
orgamzed to fi~1d homes for homeless chqdren without expense of
an~ sort, and m every stat~ there are private eleemosynary institutions where we can provide for our aged and helpless brethren
at mu~h less than I:alf the expense of keeping up a distinctive
Masomc Home. I y1ekl to no one a more earnest desire to care
for our indigent brethren, their widows and orphans, but I feel

Hi!)

REPORT ON CORRESPONDl'JNCliJ.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCT.D.

that we should use common sense in providing for their need~. ln
my last year's report I went over the \vhole field of this d.iscussion, and I do 11ot frcl called upon to repeat what I then said the
present year. I refer my brethren ~o my detaile~l rema:ks under
the head of Louisiana for 1912 winch covered, m detail, what I
am now referring to.
vVe have heretofore had occasion to remark, however that most
of the criticisms of the -:\Iasonic Home system ha vc come from those
residing in jurisdictions that have no Masonic homes and very little
criticism. so far as we have been able to discover, has been uttered
in jurisdictions where the Home system has been adopted, and
criticisms bv those who have not tried the system may not he unlike the
ol<l maid's ~ond~mnation of the marriage relation. She had never tried
it, but she knew it was no good.
TH01;IAS

P, JACOBS, Grand l\faster, Kew l\fartinsville.

joHK ~I. COLLINS, Grand Secretary, Charleston.

WISCONSIN.
1914.

The Seventieth Annual Communication of the Gr::ind Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of vVisconsin was opened in
Ample Form in the Scottish Rite Cathedral, corner of Van Buren and
Oneida Streets, in· the city of Milwaukee, at the hour of two o'clock
p. m., on Tuesday, June 9th. 1914, A. L. 5914, Grand Master George

B. Wheeler presiding.
From the opening paragraphs of the Grand Master's address, we
quote as follows:
In a far eastern country, w~1ose civilizatioi! differs from ours
as the night from day, there hes a sacred city, tow~rds who~e
famous temple millions of the faithful daily _turn their fa~es .m
prayer, while millions i:10re. have for. centuries. made their J.?ilgrimages to its holy shnne. m the bemghted belief that ~alvat1011
was vouchsafed t:o those whose eyes should behold the birthplai::e
of their prophet and their religion.
Masonrv also has its Meccas, its shrines and temples, hallowed by tl1e memories and influences. of thousands
y~ars of
association. In a sense. but in a far different sense, tlus city and
temple is the Mecca towards wh_ich the eyes. of the Masons of
\Visconsin are turned each year m the beautiful month c:f Jlll!e,
and to which we, as the repr~se1:tatives of the Cr:;i.ft of tins. Jtmsdiction, make our annual pilgrimage. Our shrmes ~re m Fhe
faithful hearts of our brethren. Our temples are their meetmg
places. dedicated to the service of God and humanity. Our creed
is a simple faith in the Fatherhood of God ~n.d the Brot~erhood
of Man. Inspired by such a creed, and ~Y _trad1tIOf1:S ~xtendmg centuries before the Islam or even the Chnst1an era, 1s it strange that
our institution should be permeated with that spirit of supreme

o!

HO

Hf1JPORT ON COHRESPONDENCI£.
conf1de11cc, determination and loyalty which comes from a realization of the importance of its mission among men, and faith in its
ability to fulfill that mission?

His references to th~ conservatism of Freemasonry, to its influence
in amalgamating the rich and the poor into a homogeneous citizenship;
his appreciation of the fact that the restless spirit of change so rampant
in our social and political life has not been permitted to lay its hands
on our ).fasonic institution, and his understanding of the real reason
for the marvelous success of Freemasonry, are all so cogently set
forth in certain paragraphs of his address, that we take the liberty of
quoting them in full as follows :
Another peculiarity of Masonry is its conservatism, its respect
and reverence for tradition, for established usages and laws. In
this age when there is a growing unrest, a widening disregard
of the principles underlying our democratic institutions, and even
a lessening respect for established law, the conserving influence
of such an institution as ours on our community, state and national
life cannot be estimated.
I believe the greatest problem this country has to solve today
is how to amalgamate the rich and the poor into a common, homogeneous citizenship, by eliminating the arrogance of the one and
the envy of the other. l\Iasonry, perhaps more than any other
single factor, is helping to accomplish this beneficent purpose.
Its teaching that rich and poor belong to a common brotherhood,
who must meet upon a common level, is doing much to beat down
the barriers of caste, and make men in spirit, what they are in
fact, brothers all, descended from a common ancestry, working
for the common weal. and traveling to a common bourn.
The ruthless spirit of chance, so rampant in our social and
political life, must not be permitted to lay its hands on our Masonic institutions. Masonry can only be maintained in its purity
and its essence by unswerving loyalty to the faith of our fathers
and by absolute adherence to our ancient laws and landmarks.
Let us he devoutly thankful for the heritage that has come down
to us through the centuries; let us glory in our antiquity; let us
be proud of the fact that we can trace our lineage back through
the ages to that wonderful race which appears to have been God's
chosen people to bring both Christianity and Masonry to light.
The real reason for the marvelous successs and vitality of
Freemasonry is the fact that it has pursued the even tenor of its
way,. refusing to turn to the right or left, out of the beaten path
our fathers trod. And today in the presence of this distinguished
gathering, representing the flower of Wisconsin Masonry, I know
I voice the universal sentiment when T declare that there must be
110 innovations in the bo<ly of Masonry.
The Grand l\faster's true conception of what is meant and understood by Masonic charity will be at once recognized as so sound and
true that we quote his remarks upon this subject:
Having thus reverently reflected upon the mutations of this
earthly life, let us turn our attention to what constitutes our
greatest cluty, our highest pleasure-the tender and watchful

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

161

care for the li,·ing.

::-rasonry is a benevolent institution 111 the
"To soothe the unhappy, to sympathize with
their misfortune. to compassionate their miseries, and to restore
peace to their troubled minds'' is the great purpose we have in
view. Charity is a grand. but greatly misrepresented word. It
has come to he too much associated with the mere giving of
money. Masonry endeavors to interpret the word in its best a11d
fullest meaning. And while we gladly, generously give of our
~ubstance to those who need it most, let us endeavor to exemplify
m our thoughts an<l actions the Bible meaning of this greatC:'st of
all words, and live a life of love and service in our daily intercourse with out fellowmen.
bes~ an~ truest sense.

The Grand Master's year was in all respects an active and useful
one, as disclosed in his report, and as shown in other wavs in the
holding of not less than nine emergent communications for th~ purpose
of laying cornerstones, dedicating Masonic halls, constituting Lodges,
etc., and within the year not less than five dispensations to form new
Lodges were granted, the largest number of new Lodges formed in
any one year since the establishment of the Grand Lodge.
W c are pleased to note that we arc in harmonv with the Grand
Jurisdiction of vVisconsin concerning the latest J\rasonic fads, or
fancies, whichever way it may be viewed, in the holding of annual
gatherings of Masonic high-brows; first, the Ceorgc \,Yashington
Memorial Association meetings, which arc held each year at Alexandria,
Va., for the purpose of promoting the idea of a national Masonic
shrine. but perhaps just as much for the purpose of affording an
annual junket at the expense of the various Grand Jurisdictions, and,
secondly, the so-called conferences of Grand Masters, five of which
have already been held. and which arc assembled on invitations extended by this, and that, and then the other Crand Jurisdiction, urged
thereto hy a Grand Master or Past Grand Master.
Concerning the George Washing·ton l\frrnorial Association, Grand
Master Wheeler says:
GF'.OR<;J~

WASHINGTON

TllE:\WRL\L ,\SSOCL\'l'JON.

l n Decemlwr 1 recci\ eel from Thomas J. Shryock, Cranrl
l\f astcr of ;\[anla11d. an iiwitation to attend the annual meeti1w
of the George \,Yashington l\rasonic ;\°ational ;._f crnorial Associatio~
at Alexandria. Virginia. which occurred 011 Februarv 23rd and
24th. 1914. This Grand Lodge having· twice refosed to give this
movement its official sanction, I felt compelled to decline the
invitation.
And concerning the conference of Grand Masters, speaking of the
invitation of the Grand Master of Missouri to attend the conference
in St. Louis in 2\[ay of this year, Grand ~Taster \Vheeler says:
T replied to this communication expressino- my appreciation
of the honor, and calling his attentio;1 to the co~1servative attitude

162

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEKCJ<~.
of the Grand Lodge ot Wisconsin in the matter of such conferences,
particularly to the fact that the action of our Grand :'.\faster la;;t
vear in declining to attend the confrrence
Grand Masters m
indianapolis
approved by our Grand
at its last communication.
this reason, and for the
reason that my
business and 1\I asonic appointments for l\Iay would not permit
my absence from the State at the time set for the conference, I
respectfully declined the i1witation.
r stated in rnv
that r questioned whether the conference
would he prodnctivc
any permanent good to the jurisdictions
represented, although I was sure it would
a most interesting
and delightfol social occasion.

Towards the close of the Grand J\Iaster's address, he becomes
reminiscent and calls attention to the time of his first entry into the
Grand Lodge twenty years before, and he makes this quotation from
the then Grand J\laster's address:
In compliance with the action of this Grand Lodge .. at its
J;1st communication. in comnanv with Brothers Youngs, Laflrn and
McGregor, I attended the ~fasonic Con.gress
Chicago, on August
14th last. It was a gathering of promment
from all parts
of the country. thirtv-six Grand Jurisdictions being repre_sente\1.
including Canada and "'.\fanitoba. but, for actual results ~ttamed, 1t
might as well not have been held. Of course. as
ot the. clel~o-ates had the power to hind their own Grand
nothmg m
the linr of legislation was possil~k; hut T
.
it. might
adopt as its conclusions. relative to matters wherem the chfferent
jurisdictions come in contact with each other, some
rules which all Grand Lodges would have b~cn glad to
In this I was disappointed. As one of the leaders writes
the general conclusion seemed to be that "\Ve were a lot
good fellows. and that was all."
Evidently the experience which this Grand
through its.
(;rand Maskr. had at that time with conferences of
.'.\!Tasters
Jwas not such as to warrant or encourage the return to such conferences in these latter days.
As the Grand Master recites, this idea of a IVIasonic Congress. or
gathering of titled Masons in annual assemblage is nothing new but
is an experience that Masonry has passed through more than once in
the past sixty years in' America.
From the report of the Grand Secretary, we learn that the membership of this Grand Jurisdiction on January 1. 1914, was 29,243, a
gain of nearly 1,200 over the preceding year.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Aklro Jenks, Past
Grand l\faster, it being his seventeenth annnal production.
The report. as usual, is filled with cxtrt·mdy edifying· comntent.
Brother Jt'.nks is a :,talwart of stalwart:' whe11 it comes to Ancient
l'raft l\Iasonrv, and he is a saft• guide to follow in matters touching
~vmholic :.\la;oun·. whose pristine purity he would maintain at the
l;azanl of losing L:ast ,,·ith all of the modern cult, determined, if possible,
to make l\Iasonry an imitator of modern fraternal organizations ..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

16:J

That Brother Jenks' reports are appreciated by the Grand Masters
of his jurisdiction may be judged from the following earnest recommendation to the Craft to read them contained in the Grand Master's
report:
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence will
be presented to you, and I bespeak for it the careful consideration
which this valuable review deserves. It should be read in its
entirety by every representative present, who desires to keep in
touch with the trend of Masonic legislation the world
The
Grand Master emphasizc>s this statement particularly for the
of representatives who may be in attendance for the first time,
and who may not realize the importance and value of this report.
Concerning the proposition originating in the Grand Lodge of
Oregon for the organization of a Supreme Grand Lodge, Brother
Jenks remarks:
The proposition originating in the Grand Lodge of Oregon for
the organization of a Supreme Grand Lodge having jurisdiction
over the various Grand Lodges of the North American Continent
to be held at the city of San Francisco in 1915 would be considered startling were it not perfectly apparent that the whole
movement must result in ridiculous failure. So far, we have not
found a single Grand Lodge that
expressed the least sympathy
with the movement. It looks now as the Grand Lodge of Oregon,
when the time comes, will find itself "meeting" alone. vVe arc
really surprised that as staid and respectable a Grand Lodge should
have stood sponsor for a proposition that has been so emphatically
condemned through the last century by every :VIasonic Convention
of any importance that has essemblecl in that period.
BERNARD F. KELLER,
\V1LLIAM

Grand Master, La Crosse.
\V. PERRY, Grand Secretary, Milwaukee.
WYOMING.

1913.
The Q°hirty-11i11th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
\Vyoming, A. F. and A. 1\L was held in Evanston, vVyoming, September 3 and 4, 1913, Grand 1\Iastcr William Pugh presiding.
Four Special Commui1ications of the Grand Lodge were held within
the year for the purpose of laying cornerstones of public buildings.
A great deal of the time of the Grand Master was spent in visitations to subordinate
he having honored a great many of the
constituent Lodges with his presence within the year.
The following excerpt from the conclusion of his annual address
shows that Masonry is growing and prospering in vVyoming:
Masonry is growing ;ind prospering in \Vyoming, the number
?f the Lodges as well as the membership thereof continues to
tncrease; naturally this increases the labor and responsibility of the
Grand Master, and the past year has been one of great activity

l{gponT ON CORRF<JSPONDJ1JNCK

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

164

for me, nevertheless, the opportunity for extending my knowledge
of the state and the many delightful people that I have met, have
fully compensated for the labor and time expended,. and' I .shall al'ways look back upon this year as a pleasant spot. 111 my ltfe, only
regretting my inability to do more and better service for .our noble
Order. The experience of the past year has resulted 111 greater
knowledge and more appreciation of Masonry, and I shall step out
of office into the ranks ready to help carry forward the good work
that ~1asonry is endeavoring to accomplish.
On recommendation of the Committee on Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands.
A resolution was adopted, the purport of which was the gathering
of information as to the methods pursued in other jurisdictions for
caring for destitute brothers from other jurisdictions.
The report of the Grand Secretary shows a gain in membership of
l 91 over the preceding year, the total memhership at this time being

3,036.
The Report on Correspondence is hy the veteran Grand Secretary,
\V. L. Kuykendall. California, 1912. is fraternally considered, \vith quotations from the report of the Grand l\Iaster and Committee on Correspornlcnce. Brother Kuykernlall's conclusion, which contains information of a general character, is as follows:
\i'/e have a!:tain nearly reached the end of our journey in reviewinl!," the proceeding of all Grand Lod[res which the Grand Lodge. of
\Vvoming has recognized as regular that have come to hand durt1H.~·
thl: past _year, and, as our conclusion t?. rcport.s of 1911 ~nd 1912
related solclv to the question of recogmt1on, neither of wl11ch have
1wcn even r~krrcd to, much less answered, hy any one of the few
champions of personal and Grand Lodge recognition o~ clan~lestine
and other classes of shady 1\fasonry, we leave a d1scuss10n or
further reference to that question out of this conclusion, while
calling attention to it as appearing under the head of several
jurisdictions.
. . .
.
A number of Grand Lod8,"cs still 111s1st that a vVorsh1pful Master
cannot fill th;1t position unless he receives the wonderful secrets of
t11c so-called Past Master's Degree, which is conferred before installation instead of after lie has served honestly through his tcrn1
and rcalh· become a Past "'.\Taster. Delaware has declared it to he a
degree s(llcly under its laws when it is well kno\vn that it belongs;
in the Chapter.
Two or three Grand Lodges insist that the \,Yardens must also
receive it before installation, when a child can see that neither of
the111 mav cn·r heconw Master, thus making it more of a farce than
it really ·i~. l\lany Grand Lodges, however, have wisely prohibited
it. and nothing has happened to any l\Iaster or Lodge through svch
prohibition of a useless barnacle.
Its equally useless twin barnacle, the so-called Grand RepreSl'ntative ~"·stern, having no place whatever in Craft Masonry
under its l;lan of organir.ation, which is admitted by everybody,

165

has very wisely been discontinued hy several Grand Lodges, and
should be abandoned by all. as it is well known by all Masons
to be another farce, the perpetuation of which is not worth the
time, labor, paper, and printers' ink used in keeping it up. One
Grand Master recently referred to said excresence on the body of
Craft Masonry by saying that only seven Grand Lodges had representatives. near his Grand Lodge, and that all other places had been
vacant for years, and yet we find that all the Grand Lodges survived, continued 'to thrive, and that peace and harmony prevailed
between them just the same. W c were surprised that said Grand
l\f aster did not recommend, and that some Brother did not move,
to abolish such a useless system.
As we understand it, England and possibly Scotland, Ireland
and some of the Canadian Grand Lodges, permit dual membership,
which allows a man to join and be a member of as many Lodges in
as many jurisdictions as he may desire. We thought Virginia was
the only jurisdiction that permits such, but find that Massachtisetts
has recently adopted it, thereby creating some friction with Vermont, owing to members in latter becoming members of Lodges
in Massachusetts. \Ve already have too many members who fail to
attend meetings of their Lodges except on special occasions. They
should mend their ways in that regard before trying membership in
more than one Lodge at one and the same time. All Grand Lodges
which permit such doubling up of membership are sailing under the
flag of numerical misrepresentation, and makes all statements of
the total number of Masons absolutely unreliable. Recently, Oregon
\visely and correctly turned down the application of an English
Mason living in that state who wanted to join an Oregon Lodge
while retaining his membership in England. And here is another
opportunity for our good Brothers Wroth and Howard to have
New Mexico and Mississippi adopt dual membership because
England has set the pace.
We had selected the transfer of membership law, perpetual
jurisdiction, correspondence between Lodges, and a few other
questions to incorporate in this conclusion, but have concluded to
defer their presentation for the present.
With unbounded loyalty to regular Craft Masonry, and the
powers that be at present managing its affairs wherever existent,
and kind fraternal regards to our Brother reporters, the membership everywhere, and especially to our brethren of Wyoming, we
bring to a close the result of another year's work as a reviewer.
Respectfully submitted,
C. BARNETT, Grand Master, Cody.
W. L. KUYKENDALL, Grand Secretary, Saratoga.
FRED

INDEX.
A
Acacia F rate mi ty-Re la ti ve to---------------------··--------------- .. -----------··········· .... 14, 221
Accounts-Report of Committee OIL ............................................................ 94
Address of Grand }\'laster.................................................................................. 7
Of William P. Filmer at Memorial Services ...................................... 199
Of John 'vV. Linscott at Memorial Services ...... ---···--····-----------·-···-----.196
Of Orrin S. Henderson at Memorial Services ... ---------------------·-·······--.202
Alphabetical List of
Alphabetical ·Location of
Amendments to By-Laws Reported ... ---------------------------------·-······-------·····--·--··· 44
Amendments to Constitution-Carried.----------------·····-·-··--····--··--.173, 174, 17S
Amendments to Constitution-Proposed ____________ 95, 165, 166, 176, 175, 177
Anderson's Manual-Reta tive to .................. -------------------------------··········· 128, 208
Annotated Constitution-Relative to ... ----------···-····-·-··········----------128, 208, 220
Annual Rei)ort of Grand Lecturer .................................................................. 91
Of Grand Secretary ... ---······-··--···-······-··········-··-·-·········-···-···········-·-·············· 42
Of Grand Treasurer ... ----······················-·····--·····------·······-·········-·······-············ 38
Of ·Trustees Ma sonic Homes ................. ----------··-·······-···········--········-·····-·· 100
Appropriations by Finance Committee .... ---·····-·-·····--···········-----------------·--···--205

B
Balloting-:\J embers X ot to Retire
130
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for.. ............ -----··-·······-···----·--·-----------······.205
Burials
73, 79
Reports of-Los Angeles .. ·-····-···········--···--······-----·····---·-············--·---------------······ 72
Oakland ........ ----------------------------.----------------------------------------·······-··--···-·-··········· S2
San Diego ......... --------------·······-···--·---------------·····----·-----·--·--·······-------·-··············· 78
San Francisco _______________ ·-------------··-···---------------···-··-··---------··-····-------------·--·-·-· 65
Bonds of Masonic Tei;nple Association ... ------------------------------···---------------------.212
Books Inspected by Other Than :Master Mason __________________ ...................... 24
Blackmer
163, 164
By-Laws-Report of Committee 011 ................................. ·······-·--··-··············--163

c
Carpinteria
163, 164
Charges-Who May Prefer ............................. ···········-····-······-··--·-···-·············· 166

II

l?\DEX

Charters Gran ted _______ ·-················-·························-·············································-163
Report of Committee on .............................................................................. 162
Claremont Lodge No. 436, Constituted ........................................................ 13
Committees-On Address of Grand l\Iaster.. .......................................... 37, 87
On By-Laws ............................................................................................ 37, 163
On Charters ··············-·······························-···········································-·37, 162
On Crcdentials .......................................................................................... 5, 142
On Finance ..................................................................................................... .205
On Jurisprudcnce ................................ :............................. 128, 165, 173, 183
On Pay of Members ................................................................................... .214
On Relief to War Sufferers .................................................................... 8, 39
On Visiting Drethren .. ·--···---············-··········--··········································35, 98
Standing Committees for 1915 ................................................................. .224
Constitution and Ceremonies, Rclati,·e to ................................. .128, 208, 220
Contributions Received During the Year.. .................................................... 47
Coronado Lodgc ....: ............................................................................. 42, 163, 164
Correspondence, Report of Committee 011.. .................................................. 37
Crocker, -William H.-Addrcssed Grand Lodgc .......................................... 219

D
Decisions of Grand Master ................................................................................ 20
Directors of l\fasonic Temple Assn.-To Represent Grand Lodge ..... .213
Dispensation to Form New Lodge-Prerequisites for.. .................. 99, 175
Dispensations Tssued by Grand Mastcr.. .............................................. ..45, 165
Donations for Social or Charitable Purposes .............................................. 25
Drytown Lodge Xo. 174, Removal of Place of Meeting .......................... 46
Dues, l\linimum-Suggestion to Increase .................................... 95, 165, 176

E
Election uf (~rand Officers .................................. ·---···················-···---··············.221
Ekcti,-e Grand Officers-List of Since 1850 ................................................ 252
Election of Ofticers-Rclativc to .................................................................... 24
Elsinore Lodge X o. 289, Claim for ::\Iilcagc Session 1912............. .144, 207
Employment Hurcatcs-Remarks of Grand ::\faster 011.. .......................... 32
Los i\11geles .................................................................................................... 72
Oakla11d ······················································································-········--········· 85
San Francisco ..... ----······················································································ 71
Endowment Fund for Masonic Homes ................................................ 172, 183
Entered Apprentice-Advancement of .......................................................... 23
Estee, Morris M., Purchase of Portrait of.. ............................................... .207
Europe-Relative to vVar in .......................................................................... 8, 89

_________________________________

,_

INDEX

111

F
Fairmount Lodge Ko. 435, Constituted .......................................................... 13
Fees for Degrees, In Concurrent J urisclictions .................................... 95, 176
Filmer, William P., Address at Memorial Si:rvices ................................. .199
Finance Committee (Sec Reports of Committees).
Financial Statements of Grand Secrctary ............................................... .49. So
Foshay, James A.-l\Icmorial Services in Honor oL ............... .10, 96, 195
France-National Grand Lodge of... ...................................................... 36. 177
Funerals-Kot ?\ecessary to Open Lodge for.. .................................... 34, 174

G
Gavel Presented to Grand Master Bledsoe ______ .......................................... .223
Georgetown Lodge ~o. 25-Charter 0£.. ........................................................ 48
Germania Lodge No. 438, Constituted ............................................................ 13
Grand Lecturer-Annual Report 0£.. .............................................................. 91
Committee on Report of.. .......................................................................... 141
Lodges of Instruction Hele!... ................................................................... 92
Grand Lodge-List of Representatives Present.. ........................................ 142
Of ftcers, List of .............................................................................................. 4
Officers Elected and Appointecl... .......................................................... .221
Officers Present at Opening.................................................................... 5
Grand Lodges-France, National Grand Lodge oL .......................... 36, 177
Grand Master-Address of················--····· ·········-························-····················· 7
Balloting-Meml:ers Not to Retire During .................................... 23, 130
Board of Relief Trouble .............................................................................. 28
Committee on Address 0£.. ........................................................................ 87
Decisions ········--········-··············-········-·-·······-···································20, 128, 173
Donations for Social or Charitable Purposes ...................................... 25
Election of Officers-Relative to ............................................................ 24
Employment Bureat,s .................................................................................. 32
Entered Apprentice-Advancement 0£.. ................................................ 23
Funerals-Relative to .......................................................................... 34, 174
Grand Lodge of France-Recognition of... ................................... 36, 177
Legislation by Grand Lodge-Remarks on .......................................... 10
Lodge's Books Inspected by Other Than Master Mason ................ 24
Lodges Constituted ...................................................................................... 13
Masonic Homes and Endowment Fund ................................................ 26
Necrology ·-······································-,-·-·····················-··--······························· 10
Panama-Pacific Exposition-Masonic Building at.. ............................ 36
Past Master-Title of·····-············································································ 25
Property-How Lodge May Hold .......................................................... 21
Physical Qualification of Candidates ................................................ 9, 173
Relief Fund-Illinois .................................................................................. 25
Massachusetts .................................................................. 31

IV

!:\DEX

Crand Master-Continued.
Report of Committee on Address .......................................................... 87
Socials-Dancing, etc., in Lodge Hall... ................................................. 24
Summons to M cm bers ....................................................................... .21, 129
Temple Association ...................................................................................... 33
Trial of Brother Outside of This Jurisdiction ............................ 23, 129
Visitations .................................................................................................... 13
Visting Brethren .................................................................................... 35, 98
vVar in Europe.............................................................................................. 8
Crane! Officers-List of Since 1850................................................................ 252
Crane! Secretary-Annual Report of.. ......................................................... 42
A.mendmen ts to By-Laws Reported ..................................................... 44
Contributions Recei\·cd During the Y car.. .......................................... 47
l )ishurscments for the Year. ..................................................................... 49
Dispensations l ssued .................................................................................... 45
Drytown Lodge ?\o. 174, Removal of Place of Meeting ................ 46
Financia 1 Sta temcnts .............................................................................. 49, 56
Form of Charter, Tssued in the Early Days ........................................ 48
Leave of Absence-Granted Grand Secretary .................................... 204
Library ........................................................................................................... 46
Lodges Formed During the Year.. ......................................................... 42
Lodges X ow on the Roll
................................................................. 43
Lodges With :\femhcrship of 500 or l\forc .......................................... 46
:\[ cmhership in the Jurisdiction .............................................................. 43
X C\V Lodges Formed .................................................................................. 42
Ordered to Publish List of Offlccrs of Lodges and Inspectors .... 208
Receipts for Y car. ........................................................................... 56, 57, 131
Relief Fund, Condition 0£... ....................................................................... 45
Report of Committee on Report.. ............................................................ 87
Trial Records Reported ............................................................................ 43
\Varrants Drawn .......................................................................................... 49
(~ra11rl Treasurer-.:\1111t1al Report of ............................................................ 38
Assets of Gr;md Lodge .............................................................................. 39
To Vote Stock of 2\Tasonic Temple Association ............................... 213
Grievance Committee (Sec Reports of Committees).

H

l Ienderson, Orrin S., Address at ::vr cmorial Sen·ices ............................... 202

I
Illinois-Relief Refunded .................................................................................. 25
Sevcnty-C1fth Anniversary of.. ................................................................ 86
Scott, John H ., Past Grand Master, Visit of ..................................... .12~
lllinoistown Lodge Xo. 51-Claim of... ......................................................... 206
l nspcctors-l\likagc .\llowcd for. .............................................................. 215
l nstallatilm of Grand Ofliccrs ......................................................................... 223

\'

J
J urisprudencc Ccmmittec (Sec Reports of Committees).

K
Kettner. William, Telegram to ....................................................................... 97
Telegram From.. .......... ........
.......................................................... .209

L
Lancaster Lodge X o. 437, Constituted ......................................................... 13
La Puc11tc Lodgc ............................................................................... .43, 163, 164
Leave of Absence-Granted Grand Secrctary ............................................. .206
Library-Report of Grand Secretary 011 ....................................................... 41)
Linscott, John W .. Address at l\Iemorial Scrviccs .................................... 196
Lodges-Alphabetical List of ........................................................................... .257
Annual Returns of ........................................................................................ 131
Chartered at this Communication ............................................................ 163
Constituted Last Year ................................................................................ 13
Formed During the Year .......................................................................... 42
Lo ca ti on of .................................................................................................... 266
List of .............................................................................................................. 236
List of Extinct .....
................................................................................ 248
List of Rcprcscntati\·cs Present at Grand Lodgc ............................. .142
l\f cmhcrship in 1914 .................................................................................. 43
-:'-J uml~cr of on the Roll... ............................................................................. 4J
Receipts From .................................................................................. 56, 57, 131
Returns of-Report of Committee on .................................................... 131
List of Officers of Lodges and I nspcctors, to he Puhlishccl... .............. .208

M
Manila Lodge -:'-Jo. 342-Ex-l\Iember, Restored hy Grand Lodge ....... .210
Manual, Arnlerson's-Relative to ............................................................ 128, 203
Maricopa Lodge No. 434. Constituted ............................................................ 13
Masonic Homes-Annual Report of Trustees ....................... .100, 165, 177
Appropriations for ..................................................................................... .206
Camping Trip for Children ........................................................................ 112
Camp Contributions .................................................................................... 118
Children Leaving, Places Provided for.. ............................................. .111
Christmas Donations .................. .'....................................................... 117, 118
Conditions at San Gabriel... ..................................................................... 101
Deaths During the Year at Decoto ....................................................... .125
Departures From J)ecoto .......................................................................... 125
From San Gabricl .................................................................. 127
Donations to Decoto.........
............................................................. 117
To San Gahricl ........................................................................ 117

INDEX

\I

Masonic Homes-Continued.
Endowment Fund ..... ·----------------------------------__________________________ 172, 183
En tc rtai nmcn ts at Dccoto __________________________________________________________________________ l l 0
At San GabrieL ___________________________________________________________ l 15
financial Reports _________________________________________________ 39, 40, 41, 106, 107, 108
]<'nncl for Building Purposes ___________________________________________________________________ 104
Crancl l\Jastcr's Remarks Relative to
------------------------ 26
Library at Decato___________________________
_________________________________________ J 10
~ ew
Dormitory Bnilcling ________________________________________________________________________ .101
Receipts for the Y car____________________
---------------------------------- 57
Rcsicle11ts at Decoto _________________________________________ ------------------------------------------122
At Sa11 Gabriel ____________________________ ---------------------------------------------126
Report of Finance Committee 01i__ _____________________________________________________ .206
Report of Crancl Treasurer________________
_____________________________ 39, 40, 41
Of Secretary________________
--·---------·---- _________________________________________ 105
Of SL~pcrintcmlcnt ________
__________________________________________ .109
Visitations to llomcs_____________
-------------------- __________________ 115
l\ rassach nsctts-Salcm Fire_______________________________
--------------------------------------- 31
:dasonic Temple Association-Annual Report------------------------------------------- 57
Bon els of____
--------------------------------------- __________________________________________________ .212
Crocker, \Villiam l-l ., Formally Introduced to Grand Lodge _________ .219
Di recto rs-\Vho to Rcpresen t C rand Lodge ______________________________________ .213
_________________________ .212
l<'inance Committee-Report on
Crand Trcasurn to Vote Stock of
_____________________________ .213
Remarks of Crand l\lastn Relative to __ .
__ --------------------·-- 33
l\I emliership in the Jurisdiction_____________________
___________________________ _.43, 236
l\f cmorial Pages________
________________________________________________ .226
l\f emorial Services
-----------------------·----- ______________________________________________ 96, 195
:'.\ ronte hello Lodge_______
____________________________________________________ -43, 163, 164
l\l 01111t Dialilo Lodge
_________________________________________________________ _.43, 163, 164

N
--------------------------------- ________________ 99, 175

Xcw Lodge-Prerequisites for__

0
Oak Crm·c Lodge ~ o. 215-Reimhnrscment oL _____________________________________ .206
Ofticers of Lodges an cl Tnspcctors-to be PuhlishecL ___________________________ 208
Officers of Crancl Lodge, Li~t oL _________________________________________________________ _.4, 221
Oration hy \Villiam H. ·waste, Crand Orator__ ____________________________________ 96, 183

P.
Pa11ama-Pacitic Expusition-1\1 a sonic Building at__ __________________________________ 36
Park Loclge _______________________________ , ____________________________________________________________ 43, 163, 164
Past Master-Title of ________________________ :--------------------------------------------------------------- 2~
Pay of Members-Report of Comm1ttec on _________________________________________________ .21

I
,.._

Vil

Perkins, George C.-Tclegram to. ___________________________________________________________________ 97
Telegram From _____________________________________________________________________________________________ .209
Physical Qualification of Candida tes __________________________________________________________ 9, 17 3
Portrait of Past Grand Master M urphey ___________________________________________________ .206
Property-How May Be Helcl by Lodgcs _________________________________________ .21, 129

R
Receipts of Grand Lodge---------------------------------------------------------------- _______ 56, 131
Recognition of National Grand Lodge of France, Relative to ________ 36, 117
Rejections, Suspcnsjons, etc____________
_____________________________________________ 95, 177
Relief Fund, Condition oL_____________
--------------------------------------------------- 45
Relief to \Var Sufferers in Eurnpc ______________________________________________________________ 8, 89
Reports of Committccs-~\ccounts _____________________________________________·_____________________ 94
By-Laws -------------------------·---------------------------------------- ____________________________ 163
Charters --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------162
Credentials _________________________________ .____________________ , _________ ._______________________________ 5, 142
Pay of Members _______________________ --------------------------------·---~------------------------------214
On Grand Lecturer's Re po rt___ _______________________________________________________________ l 41
On Grand Master's Address ____________________________________________________________________ 87
On Grand Secretary's Report___ _______________________________________________________________ 87
Returns _____________________________________________ ._____________________________ .____________________ -------· .. 131
Temple Association _______________________________ ---------------------------------------------····----- 57
Visiting Brethren ____________________________________________________________________________________ 35, 98
War in Europe ______________________________________________________________________________________________ 89
Finance-Appropriations for Boards of RclieL _________________________________________ .205
Anderson's ManuaL ___________________________________________________________________________________ .208
Annotated Cons ti tu ti on _____________________________________________________________________________ .203
Elsinore Lodge No. 289, Mileage for 1912 ClaimecL ____________________ .207
Illinois town Lodge No. 51, Claim oL __________________________________________________ .206
Masonic Homes ___________________________________________________________________________________________ .206
Masonic Temple Association _____ ---------------------------------------- ____________________ .212
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, Rcirnhurscment of ________________________________ .206
Officers of Lodges and Inspectors to be PublishccL ________________________ .208
Portrait of Grand Mastcr-Mnrphcy ___________________________________________________ .206
Portrait of Past Grand Mastcr-:-Estcc _______________________________________________ .207
Representative FLmd-Reduction of _______________________________________________________ .207
Roster-Not to be Published ______________________________________________ ---·--··-- _________ .207
Salaries of Grand Officcrs _________________________________________________________________________ .205
Grievances-Gen c ral Omnibus Rcpo rt__ __________________________ -------------------------- ____ l 66
Petition for Restoration from Ex-Member Fort Bragg Lodge
No. 361-Denied ____________________________________________________________________________________ 167
Petition for Restoration from Ex-Member Manila Lodge No.
342-Grantecl ----·-------------------·------------·····-------------------------·-·------------------210

I.\'DEX

IKDEX

Trials-In Alturas Lodge No. 248-Rcmanded ..................................... .217
In Charter Rock Lodge Xo. 410. .................................................... .167
Jn Coalinga Lodge Ko. 387 ............................................................... 166
Jn Crescent Lodge No. 45 ................................................................ 166
In Doric Lodge No.
177, 219
Jn Evergreen Lodge No. 259 ......................................................... 166
Jn Golden State Lodge No. 358....................................................... .166
In Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.. ............................................................. .166
Jn Honolulu Lodge No. 409-Remanded ...................................... 168
Jn Naval Lodge No. 87 ..................................................................... .166
Jn Northern Light Lodge No. 190-RemandetL. ......................218
Tn Ontario Lodge No. 301... ............................................................. 166
Tn Pacific Lodge Xo. 136 .................................................................... 180
In ~an Bernardino Lodge Ko. 348-RevcrsecL ........................ .179
Tn San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.......................................................... 167
Tn Solano Lodge ?\ o. 229 ................................................................... .166
Jn Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ........................................................... .166
In South West Lodge No. 283-RemandccL ............................ .180
In Starr King Lodge No. 344......................................................... .167
Jn West Lake Lodge No. 392-Rernanded ........................ 179, 216
Jurisprudence-Charges, \Vho May Prefer ................................................. 166
Decisions of Grand J\Iaster.. ...................................................................... 128
Dispensations Tssued hy Grand .M aster.. ............................................... .165
Endowment Fund for Masonic Homes .................................................. 183
France-Recognition of .\'ational Grand Lodge of.. ......................... .177
Ftmerals-Opening Lodge at... ................................................................. 174
:\linimum Dues of lHembers ................................................... 95, 165, 176
Kew Lodges. Prerequisites for.. .............................................................. 175
Physical Qualification of Candidates ...................................................... 173
Secretaries of Lodges ..........................................................................95, 175
Secretaries-Reports to Grand Secretary by.............................. 95. 177
Representative Fund-Reduction of .............................................................. 207
Resolutions-Endowment Fund for ·Masonic Homes ...................... 172, 1R3
(;rand Secretary's Loss .............................................................................. 8~
Telegram to Perkins and Kettner .................................................... 96, 209
Oflicers of Lodges and Tnspectors to be Published ......................... .208
Roster-Relative to ..............................................................................96, 207
Restoration from Ex-:'.\vf ember Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361-Denied ..167
From Ex-i\lemher ::\Ianila Lodge ?\ o. 342-Granted ....................... .210
Returns of Lodges ............................................................................................ .131
Roster--Printing of 1Jisc011tinuc(L .......................................................... 96. 207

Schofield Lodge .................................................................................... 42, 163, 164
Scott, John H.-Past Grand Master, Illinois, Visit oL ........................ .128
Secretary-For Two or More Lodges ....................................................95, 175
Sherman, Edwin A.-Memorial Services in Honor oL .......... .1 L 96, 195
Socials-Dancing, etc.-In Lodge Hall... ....................................................... 24
Standard Loclge .................................................................................. ..42, 163, 164Standing Committees for 1915 ....................................................................... .22'-lSummons. Must be Obeyed.
.. ............................................................ 21. 129

s
Sala rics of Crand Officers ........................................................................... 205

San Pasqual Lodge............. ........... .....................................

,_------------------------~·-·---·--

.. ..... .43, 163. 164

ix

T
Temple (See Masonic Temple Association).
Torrance Lodge ............................................................................... 43. 163, 164
Trials (See Reports of Committees).
Tyrian Lodge No. 439, Constituted ............................................................... 13

v
Van Nuys
163, 164
Visiting Brethren-Recognition of... ....................................................... 35, 98

w
Wall, William S.-Suspension of... ........................................................ .22, 129
Warrants Drawn Against Grand Treasurer .............................................. 49
Waste, William H., Oration by ................................................................ 96, 183
Whicher, John, Relative to .................................................................. 37, 88, 204
Wilshire
163. 164

y
Yolo Lodge No. 81-Suspension of W. S. WalL. ............................ .22, 129

nd Lod e f a iforn1a
---,

td

.. (

r

Lod

Cali

on

0

d

>llowi

co
11

n mrsmnouu
l er u l

ppen

C'

S

of
la)

n

ovem

llundrc

BENJ A::.\IIN F. BLEDSOE
<&ranb aa~irr
1915

and

in th ye
Thou and
i t

n.

Grand Lodge of California
I. ]oHN WHJCHER, Grand Secretary of the i\J .". \V.". Cra11d Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify t:-hat the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixty-sixth
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the twelfth day of October, A. L. 5915, and terminated on
l't·iday, the fifteenth day of said month.

1Jn IDestimonu llqerenf
I have hereunto appended my
official

signature

and

have

affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of

\

California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City ol
San Francisco, this fifth day
of November, in the year of
Light,

Five

Thousand

l lun<lred and Fifteen.

Nine

PROOE]j~DIXGS
OF

Tll~;

ii:. It:. ~rauh ijnhgr
OF

Free and Accepted MasorJ.s
OF THE

Jurisdiction of California,
AT fff,;

SIXTY~SIXTH

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION,
IJ 1£LD AT THB

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO,
CO~IMENCJX(l

o:-.-

Tuesday, October 12th, A. D. 1915, A. L. 5915,
A~D

TERMJN ..\TING ON

Friday, October 15th, A. D. 1915, A. L. 5915.

SAN FRANCISCO:
Shannon-Conmy Printing Co .. 50\J Sanwme Street
191 s

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THR

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

GRAND LODGE
OF

111rtt unh i\rrtptth :atunnttn
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 591 5

SIXTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
Grand Master ---········--··------ :\f. ·.\v.·.ALBERT G. BuRNETT ...................... Santa Rosa
Address, State Capitol, Sacramento.
[),·j>uty Gra11d l\1aster ........ R. ·. w. ·.FRANCIS V. KEESLING .............. San Francisco
Address, Chronicle Building.
Senior Grand TVarden ........ R. ·. Vv. ·.WJLLlAl\I RHovEs HERVEY .......... Los Angeles
Address, Trust and Savings Bank.
f 11nior Grand TVarde1L ..... R. · .\V. · .BR.\llFORD \VEBSTER ............................ Oakland
.\ddress, :\lo11ad11ock Building. San Francisco.
Grand Treasurer ............... .V. ·. W. ·.WILLIAM P. F1LMER ................ San Frnncisco
Address, J30 Jackson Street.
Cra11d Secretary ······-----------V· ·. w. ·.JOHN WmcHER .................... San Luis Obispo
Address, :Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand J,ccturer ................... .V. ·. vV. '.THOMAS ]. BAKER ........................ Sacramento
Address, Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Chaplain __________________ v. ·. f{.'. Jonx A. B. FRY..................
.... Oakland
Grand Orator .. ·················-W. · .Jcrn N l\l. EsHLE\IAN ...................... El Centro
Assistant Gra11d Secretar3• __
\V. ·. H,\RRY S. JoHNSON .................. San Francisco
Gra11d Marshal .....
\\T. · .\VJLLLHI KETTNER ·--·····-·····----·····-San Diego
Grand Standard Bearer ...
\V ... DAnD J. REESIL .................................... Ventura
Grand Sword Bearer .. .
\V. ·.HORACE V. LEY ................................ Fort Jones
\V. ·.JOHN P. JARMAN ________________________________ san Jose
Grand Bible Bearer ........... .
Senior Grand Deacon ....... .
\V. · .JosEPH E. LEVJN ...................... San Francisco
]1111ior Grand Deacon ....... .
\ V. · -Rom~R'f GREJG -------·--····------------------------Berkeley
\V. ·. R(JBERT E. ALL1\ N____________________ San Francisco
Senior Gra11d Steward
Junior Grand Steward ....... .
\V. · .FRANCJ s W. l\11 x TER ....... ····--···-------------Exeter
Grand P11rs11fr.1ai1t -···-···---·-·
\V ... THEODORE l\lJLLl KEN --········--------··Sacramento
vV ... SAMUEL D. MAYER .................. San Francisco
Grand Organist -·····-·········-·
w.· .GEORGE P. ADAMS .................... San Francisco
(,"rand T3•ler ·--·-··· ............... .
(:27~)

The l\Iost \V orshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Sixty-sixth Annual Communication in the -:\Iasonic
Temple, in the City of San Francisco. on Tuesday, October
12th, A. L. 5915, at 10 o'clock a. m.
The Committee on Credentials reported the presence
of the following Grand Officers:
M. · .w. ·-BENJ. F. BLEDSOE.
·--···-··-······-----Grand Jfoster
R.°.W.° .ALBERT G. BURNETT
....... Dcj>1:.f_v Grand }.faster
R.° .vV.° .FRANCIS V. KEESLlNG ________ .... ................... Senior Grand /Varden
R.° .\V.°.W. RHonEs HER\'EY ---·······-··-........... Junior Gra11d Warden
V. ·.w.· .W1LLIAM P. F1LMER.............
··-···········--------Grand Treasurer
V ... W ... JOHN vVH ICHER ___ ---·--···.. .............
--------····---·Grand S ecrctar3•
v.·.w ... THOMAS J. BAKER..........
···-··--·····-·-----Grand Lecturer
V. · .R. ·. JoHN B. HANNA .. ________
_____________________ Grand Chaplain
w.·.MATT s. HUGHES ····---·····- ··········-·····-- ····---····----·-------Gra11d Orator
W.°.HARRY S. JoHNSON _____
___ , lssista11t Grand Secretary
W.°.W1LL1Al\-I KETTNER ----··· .... ................. -·····----------------··Grand Marshal
W.°.DAvrn J. REESE ·-·······-· ............................... Grand Standard Bearer
W. ·-HORACE V. LEY .... ________ ............ ·········-······--------Gra11d Sword Bearer
W.°.JoHN P. JARMML ........ ....................... ____________ Grand Bible Bearer
vV.° .JOSEPH H. STEPHtNS............
........ J1mior Grand Deacon
'Vil.· -MAJOR S. Come ....................... ..................... }>'enior Grand Ste«L'ard
W.° -CLARENCE A. BERRY............
.Junior Grand StcH•ard
w.·.CHARLES H. R1TCHJE.........
····-·············----Grand P11rs1ti'l'll1lt
w.·.SAMCEL D . .'.\J;\YER...................
............ Grand Orga11ist
W.°.GJ;oRGE P. AnAl\IS.............
.......... Grand T3•lcr
(:279)

l'HUL:8JiJ1>1NG~

GH,A.XlJ LOUGE OF C,\LII<'OHNI.A

OF THI•;

PAST <~RAND MASTERS.

281

The Grand Master then delivered his Annual ;\ddress,
as follows:

J\f.". w:. ]AMJ\s H. ST1·:n:Ns
J\f .". w:. \VJLLT.\M T. LUCAS

1\1.'. \V.'. Ell\\'.\1{]) Ir. fL\R1'

M... w ... GEORGE M. PERINE

Brethren of the Cra11d Lodge:

l\f.'. \V.'. THO:VfAS FLINT

J\I .'. \V.'. D.\XA R. \VHLI!R
l\l .'. \V.". ALoNzo J. :~v1oNJWE
l'vI.'. VI.'. \VlLLIA:YI P. F1U[F,R
l'd .'. \V.". }011:.; D. J\l nt>111·:Y

On the very cbty that you installed me as your Grand J\f astcr,
the President of the United States issued to me his Commission of
appointment as Judge of the United States District Conrt. In the
latter position, newly created to meet a long-felt want, I was immediately confronted with a long ancl congested Calendar involving a
number of difficult ancl complicated juridical prohlerns. In the face
of an unfamiliar procedure, a restrained jurisdiction and several departments of the la\v wholly foreign to the system of State jurisprudence with which I had been associated, not unnaturally I felt in duty
bound to give unusually careful attention ancl consideration to the
intricate designs I found delineated upon my official trestle hoard.

J\r.·. \v.·. fR.\NK J\T. ANGELLO'l'Tl
J\T.". \V.'. CIL\RLES L. PATTON
J\j .' · \V.'. \VJLLIAM

S..WELLS

l\I .'. \V.". ORRIN S. HENDERSON"

And the officers and representatives of three hundred ancl
fifty-three chartered Lodges. The Committee on Credentials
requested further time in \vhich to make a final report. and
it was granted.
The Grand ".\faster appointed Brother Douglass B. Crane
as Senior Grand Deacon, and the Grand Lodge was opened
in Ample
with prayer as follows hy the Grand Chaplain:
PRAYER.

Supreme Crand J\Taster, Our Heavenly Father, we lift our hearts
tn Thcl' i11 H'Ycrc11ce and gratitude for the many blessings youchsafrd
to ns, which, should vvc attempt to count, are more than we could
emmwrate. \V c thank Thee that Free JVIasonry was
instituted
among the chilcln:'n of men. May the pure principles of our Order
co11tin11e to i11A11encc mankind to a still higher plane of living. \Ve
thank Thee that we live in a land of civil and religious liberty; a land
where every man may worship God according to the dictates of his
own conscience, and nnne dare molest or make afraid. \Vhile a great
portion
the world is engaged in mortal combat,
thank Thee that
our beloved nation has been enahlecl to maintain strict neutrality.
nless and guide the President of these United States and his advisors,
in such a manner that the "great ship
state" may be safely piloted
through the shoals and breakers which beset it from within and without, and !incl safe <mchorage ii_1 the havC'n of honorable and lasting
peace. Give wisdom to him who shall preside over the clelihcrations
nf this Grand session: also the other officers, and members of this
Crand Do<ly; 1ray the lcgis!atinn herein enacted he even hcttcr than
that of the past. :\lay this meeting tlrns begun in order, he conducted
in peace, and closed 111 harmony. These favors we ask in Thy Holy
::\anw.

.\ml'll.

The doing of .this drew heavily upon the hours at my disposal,
and in consequence, as you well know, thereby deprived me of many
opportunities for pleasurable visits with my Masonic Brethren, and
it also prevented me from carrying to accomplishment many of the
things I had hoped might be my portion during my incumbency of
the office, which I considered strongly analogous in dignity, responsibility and honor to that of the Governorship of our great Commonwealth.

In spite, however, of my
official duties during the year,
now, alas, about to encl, I have at all times tried to give to yon-to
the 'solving of your problems and the furthering of your intereststhe best that there was in me, and the most in the way of loyalty,
opportunity and industry, of which I \vas capable or vvhich I could
command in your behalf.
That I have been able, actually, to accomplish but little, bri1~gs
home to me both chagrin and regret; that I have been unwilling to
do more, cannot he charged against me hy even the most enthusiastic
of those who had expected better things. The shortcomings of the
past, however, I am hopeful will be forgotten in the fruitions of the
future. Your cause is the cause of humanitv, and in it I enlisted
not merely for this )'ear, but for all the years. that were to be mine.
A
year, it would seem, but barelv suffices to enable a Grand
Master to get the vision of th~ boundless -possibilities and opportunities
of Free Masonry; the v,d10le course of his after life, inspired and
actuated by that vision, should he the true test of his appreciation of
the obligation hy you cast upon him. :l\f y pride, if any T have, as I
0 w prepare to return to you the gavel of authority with which vou
invested me a year ago, is not that of actual accomplishment in -the
past, but rather that of hopefulness of accomplishme11t in the future.

?

282

PHOCEEDINUS OF THE
GR.\ND LODGE OI<, C..:\LIFOHNIA

283

In this com1cction \Ve should ever keep in mind that the true
mission of l\fasonry must be regarded as an essentially practical one,
if tile institution is to survive the clamors and disturbances of this
age. There are too many practical problems in life nowadays, for a
purely spcculatin: or ethical instrumentality to be of substantial force
or avail. In the heavy press of burdens and responsibilities, public
as well as private, social as well as civic, religious as well as economic,
we must be prepared, not to talk round a problem, but to go through it.
Masonry, then, just as men, must descend from the clouds of
abstract reasoning and concern itself with the vital forces of good
and evil right down here among the lives of our people,-their everyday lives-the commonplaces of their existence-the problems that go
not out of recolkction with the setting of the sun-the things determinative of their destinies.
He, therefore, who would make of
l\Tasllnry an efficient machine for the substantial betterment of mankind. must attune his heart as vvell as his ear to the actual needs
of those who are in distress; must he able to grasp the logic of necessity as well of virtue, and must needs know that the problems of my
brother, ·who is in my keeping, did not spring from an ethical condition
and can not be satisfied hy a mere ethical solution.
In this spirit, if we succeed in any appreciable degree in rendering
the tc11nre of the race here on earth happier, more contented and less
di.-;appointing, we will have justified our existence and offered some
reasonable excuse to our minds and consciences for the time and
effort expended in the name of Freemasonry. Jn this spirit, also,
whatever is an enemy to the genuine progress of the race, is an enemy
of ours, whether it be a war, a famine, a misuse of the powers of
wealth or of industry, or even an institution.
The man, then, who can actually acid something to the uplift of
political life, something to the brotherhood of social life. something
to the ethics of commercial life, something to the justice of industrial
lik something to the freedom of religious life, something to the practical cfticicncy of spiritual life,-that man is a Mason, whether he has
cn-r taken onr obligations or not. He who, on the contrary, has not
done some of these things, even in a small and modest way, is not a
:\I a:-;on. no matter how many letters or figures may be seen after his
name, nor how large and inspiring a watch charm may adorn his
,,·aistcoat.
H.emcmber, no trner or more inspiring sentiment was ever voiced
tlrnn that of him who said:

I

I

l

''\Vith deed arnl word and pen,
Thon hast served thy fellow men;
Tbcrdorc, art thou exalted."

In the midst of our communing together over the affairs of the
Craft, \Ve should not he unappreciative of what is aud has been going
on about us in this busy Exposition City. Here, appropriate monuments commemorative of "the greatest liberty ever taken by man with
nature"-the building of the Panama Canal-have been reared, and
all the world has been hidden to come, that the nations of the earth
. might not only pay deserved tribute to this last and greatest of the
wonders of the world, bnt also that opportunity might be had to
receive ocular proof of the successful rebuilding of a great city.
\Ve of the entire State, again, and in no uncertain tones, congratulate our brethren of San Francisco ;-congratulate you upon your
indomitable spirit, your municipal pride, your marvelous achievements.
The history of San Francisco since April 18, 1906, as written upon the
map of California, betokens an ability successfully to cope with the
powers of nature almost unparalleled in the history of the world.
Vivid as arc our recollections of the awful scenes of horror which
followed in the wake of seismic shock and devouring holocaust, we
almost forget your sufferings in our unstintecl and unhesitating admiration of your pluck and fortitude. The streets that seemingly but a
few months ago were strewn with rocks and wreckage. today groan
with the burden of untold thousands passing over them; the mantle
of dust that hung so long about your horizon like a glowering pall,
has given way to rainbows of festival flags that proclaim from almost
every window and house top, the recurrence of the old-time reign of
melody and merriment. The awful stillness that always follows in
the wake of havoc wrought by nature's forces, has been succeeded by
the busy hum of the wheels of industry, bringing wealth and peace
and prosperity.
The towering monuments of steel and concrete, teeming with the
commerce of the Orient and the Occident, now grace our vision where
before our eyes sought in vain for other than twisted iron and tottering walls; the gloom of despair has passed from faces, and the
glorious sunshine of hope beams forth like a beacon light; privation
and want,-ruthless destroyers of lives and ambitions-have been
swept aside by advantage and opportunity; and the great mart of trade,
so lately smitten by the prepotent powers of nature that it seems
if it were but yesterday, in a spirit of almost unconquerable defiance,
has resumed her sway as Queen of the sunlit sea.
We of the South take a pride fn your achievements; they redound
to the credit not only of your city, but of our whole State; they are
a ~art and parcel of the priceless inheritance of California's history,
which we, our children, and our children's chikhen will recount and
rehearse in the years to come.

PHOCEEI HNGR OF '~'HI·~

~84

\Vithi11 the Co11stit11tio11al time aitcr adjournment of the last
Communication of Grand Lodge, the following Lodges, to which charters had been regularly issued, were constituted by your Crarnl l\Iaster,
rn person, in accordance with our e:;tablished form:
Standard No. 440, at Oakland, Alameda county.
Coronado Ko. 441, at Coronado, San Diego county.
Blackmer Ko. 442, at San Diego, San Diego county.
Carpentcria No. 444,

GK\ND LOUGE Ol<' C!ALU'OHNlA

28ri

conceived it to be
rare honor, as wc11
privilege, tlws to participate
in perpetuating in our memories the recollection of a man who affiliated
himself with l\Iasonry because of what the institution promised in the
way of good to the world. vvho championed its cause at all times in
the abiding belief that in so doing he was contributing to the genuine
uplift of mankind, and who finally, though poor imlce<l in worldly
goods, died rich in the possession of honors accorded to him by the
fraternity he loved so well, and revered and respected by every man
who had been brought within the sphere of his kindly and beneficent
influence.

Carpentnia, Santa Barbara county.
'sPECl.\L COM l\l UNJC.\TIONS c\Nll YJSlTATJONS.

\Vilshirc No. 445, at Los Angeles, Los Angeles county.
La Puente No. 446, at Puente, Los Angeles county.
T(1rrancc No. 447, at Torrance, Los Angeles county.
l\[ ount Diab lo No. 448, at Concord, Contra Costa county.

Park :'\o. 449, at San Francisco, San Francisco county.
Va11 Nnys No. 450.

Van Nuys, Los Angeles county.

l\lontcbcllo No. 451, at l\Io11tehello, Los Angeles county.
S:lll Pasr1ual No. 452, at Pasadena. Los Angeles county.

17th. 1915, Albert G. Burnett. Deputy Grand l\Iaster, convened Grand
in the City of Sacramento and duly installed
Joseph H. Stephens as Junior Grand Deacon.
January 12th, 1915, I convened Grand Lodge in Ocean Park, ancl
duly installed Charles H. Ritchie as Grand Pursuivant.
June 21st, 1915, I convened Grand Lodge at Los Angeles and installed William Kettner
Grand Marshal.
October 31st, 1914, Francis V. Keesling, Senior Grand \:Varden,
laid corner stone of Colusa County Hall of Records.

Schofield X o. 443, at Schofield Barracks, Leilihua, Territory of
I hwaii. was rnnstituted by
Joshua D. Tucker of the Hawaiian

November 14th, 1914, I laid the corner stone of the new l\Iasonic
'I'em pie of \Vest Lake Lodge ?'\ o. 392, at Los Angeles.

I :·damb.
NEW LODGES.

February 20th, 1915. Grand Master dedicated l\fasonic Temple of
Anaheim Lodge No. 207, at Anaheim.

SeH11 Ill'\\' Lodges have be<>n formed, a list of which will be included in the Report of the Grand Secretary.

February 22ncl, 1915. ·William R. Hervey. Junior Grand Warden,
laid the corner stone of the Calexico Union High School, at Calexico.

Jn this co1111ectio11 it was a matter of considerable gratification to
me that I was e-nahled to issue my dispensation for
of a
new L0<lgC' named in honor of our late Past Grand l\faster, Dr. Henry
S. Orme.

March 29th, 1915, William R. Hervey, Junior Grand Warden, dedicated Masonic Temple of ·west Lake Lodge No. 392, at Los Angeles.

J\f ost of us who have heen in attendance upon the Grand Lodge
in years
hy, well rememher the familiar figure of Dr. Orme.
::\lany of us recall his genial and kindly personality, his constant devotion to the higher and better things in l\Iasonry, and his almost incxcnsahlc disregard of his own interests when it came to a question of
the dispensing hy him of l\fasonic charity. But few of us, hO\vcver,
arc familiar with the fact that he was
Mason and labored loyally
and industriously in hchalf of the Craft, at a time, both in California
and elsewhere, when it required more than the ordinary amount of
conragc, in the face of
constantly met, to stand up for and
assert the righteousness of the doctrines of our institution. As a warm
fricrnl, admirer and associate of go(ld old Dr. Orme for many years, I

31st, 1915, Alhert G. Burnett, Deputy Grand Master, laid the
corner stone of Petaluma High School, at Petaluma.

nro.

May 15th, 1915, Albert G. Burnett, Deputy Grand Master, laid the
corner stone of the Roseville High School, at Roseville.

June 12th, 1915. Francis V. Keesling, Senior Grand \Varden, laid
the corner stone of .'.\la sonic Temple of Delano Lodge No. 309, at
Delano.
On January 8th, 1915. I proceeded to Hanford to lay the corner
stone of the new U. S. Post Office building in that city. On arrival,
however, l ascertained that through some lapse on the part of the
contractor, the stone did not contain the proper inscription as required
by the spccitlcations, ancl that the determined purpose of the Government's Superintcrnknt of Construction
to cause the stone to be

287

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGl~ OF CALIFOHNL\

rl'lllo\·cd aftn being put in place in order that the ddect abon~ mentioned might he remedied. Thereupon, I declined to open the Grand
Lodge and perform the empty and futile ceremony of laying a corner
stone in the face of tl1e expressed intention that it was soon thereafter
to be removed for purposes either of repair or replacement.

hers, and at 110 time have either the officers of the Lodge or I myself
been embarrassed because of a light attendance. Interest in the vital.
controlling and substantial things of J\fasonry has heen evinced on
every
Loyalty to the institution, disposition to put into prac ·
tenets, and a wholesome regard for the standing of
our ancient and honorable fraternity have been made manifest at every
congregation of the Craft. Nor ha v,: the purely ethical features only,
of Masonic life, been exemplified. I find, without exception, the members of the various Lodges in which it has hcen my privilege to visit,
both individually and as Masons, to be most hospitahle in their conduct and demeanor and disposed at all times to insist upon the doing
of the things' that would add material pleasure to the stay of your
Grand Master. Again I express to them my most grateful appreciation for their se'Veral kindnesses and fraternal courtesies,

~86

On the 9th day of .l\Iarch I received a courteous request from Most
\Vor:-;hipful .:\!mer E. ~·Jonr'oney, Grand l\f aster of Oklahoma, advising
me of the death in the City of San Diego of Captain James S. Hunt,
Emeritus Cram! Secretary of their Grand Lodge, and asking me to
take charge of the funeral and to accord to their Emeritus Grand Secretary all the honors of the Craft.
that the proper measure of courtesv clue frnm this
Crand Lodge warranted such action, I opened the Cr;md Lodge in the
City of San Diego on March 11th and conducted the funeral services
therein of the deceased Emeritus Grand
This action was
appreciated by the Grand l\faster of Oklahoma, as was evidenced by
the very courteous letter of thanks which he transmitted to me.
Brother Hunt had served the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma for almost twenty years as its Grand Secretary; had lived a long, honorable.
and useful life, and was beloved of all in the jurisdiction of Oklahoma
for his splendid services rendered to the Craft and to humanitv. Your
Crand l\f aster considered it a privilege, under the circumsta1;ces, that
he \vas permitted thus to honor a departed leader of a sister jurisdiction.
In conformity •vith the expressed attitude of this Grand Lodge,
made e\·ident on previous occasions, although I was requested several
times so to do, T ha\·e felt compelled to decline to lav the corner stones
of churches, and on one occasion, at least, felt co;1strained to refuse
• lo lay the corner stone of a building purely puhlic in character, because
arrangements coul(l not Le made hy those locally interested for the
cen·monies to he held 011 a day other than the Sabbath.
~\s indicated hcreinabovc, my report with respect to v1s1tati0ns is
indeed a meager one, and one which I could well wish might be more
comprehensive. I have, however, been able to visit with the members
of 68 different Lodges, either in individual or joint meetings, in thirty
t\vo districts of our State. I would wish for my own sake and pleasure that the number were multipliecl manv fold. Jn everv instance J
have been received with an unfailing con;tesy and degree. of
that made me feel entirely at home. Out of regard to the dignity and
importance of my high office, aml not at all because of your Grand
Master's personality, at e\·cry rncding wJ1ich I have held, ~vitl1011t exception, the brethren have turned out in goodly and substantial num-

DISPE~S:\TlONS.

Many requests for dispensations have been received, a detailed
statement of which,• without doubt, will appear in the report of our
Grand Secretary.
Jn this behalf I can not refrain from reporting that I ha \·e denied
a number of requests made of me for the issuance of dispensations
to reballot within a year on rejected ca11clidates. This I have done
because of my· feeling that the right to cast a black hall in a Masonic
Lodge is a sacred right, to which every conscientious 1fason should
be permitted to lay claim, and the responsibility for the use or abuse
of which is a matter entirely between the individual and his conscience.
I have said more than once in response to applications for dispensations that I had no
and would not use my office, to further
any plan whereby it was sought in any way to override a hlack ball
cast by a brother. \Ve are concerned not merely with getting new
material into the Fraternity; we are deeply and vitally concerned with
maintaining the utmost harmony between those who arc already in it.
On every occasion, however, when through correspondence more or
less extensive, or otherwise, I was enabled reasonably to draw the
conclusion that the individual who had cast a black ball did it through
either mistake or inadvertence, which he desired to rectify, or because
of some reason which was no longer operative with him, and that. in
consequence, upon a reballot the box would probahly be clear, I have,
without hesitation, indicated my willingness to cause the issuance of
the desire<l dispensatinn.
Under the Constitution, upon the death or resignation of an officer
of a lodge, if one is elected to {ill the vacancy, the issuance of a dispensation by the Grand l\Iaster is necessary, and under the provisions

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

288

289

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To this I felt emboldened to indite the following reply:
of our Constitution the fee for such dispensation is $10. 1\1any of the
smaller Lodges in the State can ill afford the expenditure of this sum
of money for such a purpose; and, in my judgment, the fee should
not be exacted in any event because the Lodge is in no wise responsible
for the happening of the conditions which demand it. i\ Lodge should
not be penalized because of a visit of the Grim Reaper to one of its
officers.
I therefore recommend that the Constitution be amended so as
to eliminate the necessity of the payment of the fee now prescribed
for a dispensation to hold an election to fill a vacancy caused by either
death or resignation.
DECISIONS.

In accordance with the usual experience of Grand :Masters, I apprehend, during the course of the year I have been in receipt of almost
numberless requests, of more or less importance, for official rulings
upon controverted questions of Masonic propriety and jurisprudence.
Apparently these requests were almost invariably born of a sincere
desire to obtain "further light in :l\Iasonry," and in that spirit I have
endeavored in every instance to give both rule and reason in answer
to inquiry made. Obviously only a few of such replies, those presenting either novelty or great importance, merit report to or consideration
by this Grand Lodge. Such as are presented herewith, and following
the very commendable example set by Past Grand Master Lawler,
have been already by me submitted to the Chairman of our Jurisprudence Committee.
In only one instance was I in receipt of a request for a ruling
on what might be termed a small and querulous controversy. I submit my reply in spite of the trifling importance of the question presented
merely as a suggestion to the brethren of the wisdom of disregarding
the non-essentials in Masonry. A man who is inspired to seek for a
star ought not to permit himself knowingly to stumble over a straw.
I. One of my Inspectors, indicating that the occurrence had
"caused a little feeling" in the community, asked for a "ruling" on a
protest made by "an old Past Master," arising out of the following
sittiation:
""-\ member of the Blue Lodge who was also a member
of the Comman<lery, died and was buried with Masonic honors. The members of his Commandery acted as escort. In
opening the Lodge and conducting the services, a Past Master
uf the Blue Lodge, who was also a member of the Commandery, officiatr(l in the East in the uniform of a Knight Templar,
to which the old Past Master lirM mentioned took exception
011 the ground that no officer of a Blue Lodge shotilcl appear
in the uniform of another branch of the order."

"Strictly speaking, it is probably true that a Past Master
of a Blue Lodge would find no authority for acting as Master
in opening a Blue Lodge, even for the commendable purpose
of escorting the remains of a deceased brother to the grave,
while clothed in the uniform of a Knight Templar. To that
extent I apprehend that the criticism of the old Past Master
referred to in' your letter was well taken.
"In this behalf, however, I can not refrain from venturing the suggestion that there is nothing in such an oc_c~s.ion
or such an occurrence which ought to call for any cnt1c1sm
or fault-finding on the part of anybody. It occurs to me that
no Blue Lodge Mason, with a true regard for the vital and
substantial things which concern our order, would take ei~her
the time o·r the trouble to complain because some Kmght
Templar, who happened to be a Past Master of the Blue Lodge
and who was intending to act as one of an escort to another
Knight Templar, proceeded to open the Blue Lod.ge. in the
absence of the Master~ without divesting himself of !us Templar
regalia. Surely there is nothing in the nature of Knight Templary which would render its habiliments objectionable to any
person, even though he were a Blue Lodge. 1faso1:, a~1d surely
there could be nothing save a very techmcal objection made
against one sitting in the East, under the c_ir~umstances I have
detailed above. If 'the Blue Lodge was w11!111g that the Commandery should act as escort, no member of the Blue Lodge
should have felt constrain"ecl to offer objection to the fact that
a member of the Commandery, in uniform, being called upon,
officiated in the East. There are so many other things of
moment of which our fraternity has to concern itself that I
am truly surprised that one who has heen honored by a seat
in the Oriental Chair should have taken the trouble to make
objection to such a slight and technical invasion, if it be an
invasion, of our ancient customs and landmarks.

"There does not seem to he any probability of a repetition
of this very serious ( ?) Masonic offense, and so I see no
occasion for any ruling other than what has been indicated
hereinabove in the premises."
II. The question was asked: Is a petitioner who has he~n ~lected
to receive the degrees and who admits to the Master that he 1s mtending to go into the sal~on business in a short time entitled, nevertheless,
to he initiated?

1-'HOCEEDINGS OF 'l'HJ<J

I answered that if the candidate announced his intention of going
into the saloon business in a short time the Lodge should not confer
the degrees upon him. Having proclaimed his intention of doing that
which would debar him from membership if uninitiated, and would
result in his expulsion if a member, the Constitution of the Grand
Lodge itself should he construed to operate as a rejection, and the
.:\Jaster should at the next regular meeting announce that objection
to the initiation of the candidate had been made. If this objection was
not withdra\\·n within the sixty clays, i. e., if the candidate did not
renounce his intention of engaging in the prohibited business, the objection should become absolute.

III. A candidate who had been rejected, within the twelve months
thereafter presented his petition and was elected. Then the discovery
was made that his petition had been presented prematurely, and the
l\Iastcr's inquiry was: "What shall we do?" I replied:
"In this case, although the petition was presented prematurely, the committee apparently failed to discover that fact
and rendered a favorable report, upon which the petitioner was
elected. The degrees have not yet been conferred upon him,
and obviously he is disqualified to receive them. He should
not he subjected to the burden and odium of a rejection of the
ordinary kind, and it is my judgment therefore that the Master
should direct the investigating committee to make a special
report upon the question of whether or not his petition has been
received prematurely, and if the report he in the affirmative,
that the Master should then direct that the petition may be
withdrawn, pursuant to the provisions of section 104, the fact
of such withdrawal and the reasons therefor to be entered
upon the minutes of the l,odge."
l V. The secretary of a Lodge reported that a pet1t1on had been
received from one who described himself as a "merchant"; that "as
a matter of fact he is a grocer and sells whiskey and brandy, but not
to be consumed upon the premises; that is to say, if a person were
to enter the petitioner's store and ask for ten cents' worth or fifteen
cents' worth of whiskey or brandy he woiuld not be served; it is supplied to customers at their homes only and in half-pint and pint flasks
and quart bottles."
1

answered:
''The Constitution merely prohibits receipt of a pet1t1on
irom one who is engaged 'in the saloon business,' or who is
·a bar-keeper.' The Century Dictionary defines a saloon as 'a
place where intoxicating liquors arc sold and drunk-a grog-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

291

shop,' and evicl~tly the Grand Lodge in enacting Section 129a
merely intended to exclude from membership those who
handled liquors in small quantities, usually found in connection
with and to be consumed at, a bar. In my judgment, you have
a ri~ht to receive the petition and accept the candidate, if in
your judgment he is a fit man for the degrees of l'viasonry."

V. "\Vhen balloting for more than one candidate is it necessary
to have the ballot box prepared and submitted to the 'vVardens for
inspection before each ballot is taken, or is one preparation and inspection sufficient?.''
To this query I gave the following answer :
"Section 101 ~rovides that the ballot box shall be prepared
by placing therein a sufficient number of cubes and white halls
and shall then be presented to the Wardens and Master for
inspection. It does not so state, hut obviously it was intended
that this should be clone before each ballot. The object was,
without question, to assure the brethren that the receptacle for
the ballots was entirely clear before the ballot box was presented to them for the deposit of their ballots, and if a number of candidates could be voted for without this preparation
and inspection the very aim and purpose of Section 101 would
be entir<:.>ly omitted."

VI. "A young Italian, speaking English very imperfectly but
who seemed to value his Masonic affiliations highly" had for some years
(previous to the adoption of Section 129a of our Constitution) been
conducting a hotel and saloon in a small community; the community
was voted in the '~dry" column under the Wylie law; and apparently
before the entire community had evinced full sympathy with the new
order of things the erstwhile hotel man and saloon keeper was arrested,
pleaded guilty, and was fined for dispensing liquors contrary to the
terms of the ordinance. I wa-s a~ked if it was the duty of the Lodge
under the circumstances to order charges preferred because of this
one transgression. To this inquiry I made reply as follows:
"A single violation of such a sumptuary law as you mention would not, in my judgment, show such a violation of
Masonic laws and traditio1{s as to require the preferring of
charges against such an offending brother. If he should persist after repeated warnings to conduct a 'blind pig,' he would
thereby show such a manifest disregard of the law of his country and of the accepted ordinances of the community as to
justify the inference that he was unfitted for membership in

292

l'ROCJ:DEDINGS OF 'l'ITl~
GTIAND LODGE OF' CALIFOHNIA

an institution whose mcmhcrs arc expected to support the laws
upon the statute books. Bowcn'r, T think one violation, if he
exhibits the proper sort of a spirit otherwise, and evinces no
disposition to again transgress the law in question, ought not
to require the preferring of charges against him."
'
VIL An attorney at law, if he be not a .:\Jaster l\Iason in good
standing, may not represent an accused before a Trial Con1111ission.

293

Chapter and Knight Tcmplar Commanclery of the building and furniture and fixtures thereof. given over to the uses of .r-.Iasonry in a community. (By the term "joint ownership" as used in this connection
I understood an ownership by each of the respective hodies of a certain definite interest in, or undivided portion of, the property referred to.)
was further led to suggest to my inquirer:

VITT. The Lodge in Bakersfield wrote to inquire if it would he
proper for it to participate in a Board of Relief which it was proposed
to organize in that city, to consist of the officers of the several Masonic bodies, viz., the Blue Lodge, Chapter. Commandery, Scottish
Rite, and Eastern Star, the Master of the Blue Lodge to be chairman
and each organization to contribute to such an extent as it could
afford, the moneys so obtained to be used for l\Iasonic Relid only.
I advised them that:
''There is no authority for the organization of a board of
relief along the lines suggested by yon, and it might be that it
would be difficult for such a Board of Relief to pro\·ide adequate
care for all the different classes of incliviclnals that might come
before it; for instance, some might apply who would be entitled to relief only as Blue Lodge Masons, the burden of
which relief would of course fall upon Bakersfield Lodge;
others might apply who would be entitled to relief as Chapter
or Commandcry .Masons in addition to being entitled as Blue
Lodg-e Masons, and it might be that the Chapter or Comrnandery Masons or Scottish Rite .Maso11s might object to providing
relief for those who would be entitled to it only as Blue Lodge
l\lasons. Such a Board of Relief as yon suggest could have no
official sanction from or recognition by the Grand Lodge and
ordinarily conic! not hope to receive any donations therefrom,
yet there would seem to be no legal objection to your working
out your problems involving relief along the lines you have
indicated, if you should so desire.
":;\Iy only insistence would be that you must see to it that
the Masons dependent upon you for relief are provided therewith to the extent of your abilities and in proportion to their
needs. This responsibility you can not escape, nor apportion
between yourselves and any other organization or organizations."

TX. There is nothing in the terms of Section 87 of the Constitution which prevents "joint cnvnership" hy Blue Lodge, Royal Arch

"I can easily see that it might be necessary and conduce
to the welfare of the three organizations named that they
should invest in Lodge property jointly, rather than separately;
and surely with that harmony among Masons wherein 'all can
work and all agree,' there should be no reason, legal or otherwise, why such joint ownership should not be permitted."
X. Under Section 224 of our Grand Constitution a brother who
has been elected :J'viastcr of a Lodge must serve to the encl of his term
before he would be entitled to the honors of Past Master. He can
not resign in the middle of his term and be the recipient of that title.
XI. Upon objection being made to the admission of a visitor the
l\Iaster shall determine whether or not the objection is well taken;
and whatever his ruling, there can be no appeal from his decision in
the premises. I do not understand that a visitor is ipso facto denied
admission merely because a member may object. The objection must
be one which appeals to the sound sense ancl discretion of the Master.
In this, as in all other matters, however, he should do that thing which
will conserve the harmony of his own Lodge and secure peace and
contentment among its members. It would be extremely ill advised
for a Ma~ter to insist upon the admission of a visitor merely because
stich visitor wanted to visit, if his presence was at all obnoxious to
a member.
XTT.
was advised that ;1 member applied for a din_Jit from a
Lodge of one of our substantial and prosperous cities for the purpose
of engaging in the saloon business. I mmecliatcly upon the receipt of
the dimit he did so engage. giving as one of his reasons that he could
get nothing ebc to do. I was constrained to advise his Lodge that:
"The thing to <lo in the matter of the brother who climitted
in order to go into the saloon business, is to prefer charges
against him as for a violation of his Masonic duty. The mere
fact that ht' had taken uut a <limit does nut entitle him as an
unaffiliated Mason t(; engage in the saloon business, particularly
111 new of the fact that the dimii was applied for with that
purpose m mind.

294

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"l t has been hel<l that a suspended J\Iason might have
charges preferred against him in the Lodge which has jurisdiction over him, to-wit: the one within whose territorial ju ris<liction he resides. By a parity of reasoning, it would seem
to follow, that an unaffiliated Mason would be subject to the
same rule of procedure. My understanding of the attitude of
the Grand Lodge is, that it has set its face like a flint against
Masons engaging in the liquor business. If you would keep
up in your community the respect for the fraternity which
ought to obtain there, I think it incumbent upon you to proceed against this delinquent 111 the manner provided by Masonic law.

understand that no distinction should be made in extending
Masonic charity to a Mason's son or daughter, except that in
the event the son has reached his majority, and he not being
a Mason, he is not entitled, as a matter of right, to apply to
a Masonic Lodge for assistance. I do understand, however, on
the contrary, that a daughter of a Mason, irrespective of her
au-e and whether or not she is married, if in distress, is entitled.
a~ a matter of right, so to apply, and a Lodge or other Masonic
body within whose jurisdiction she resides, is in duty hound
to relieve her in so far as such relief is necessary and proper.
The fact that she is married is immaterial. The question
always is, is she in distress, and is she the daughter of a Mason,
who is or was, in ~ood standing? This answers your questions
as I understand them.
"I would like to suggest, in addition, however, that it would
not be at all. to the credit of our fraternity for it to evince a
disposition or tendency to be technical and over critical in considering or construing the rights and claims of those who may
appeal to us for relief to succor their distress and who show
by proper evidence that they have Masonic claims upon our
benevolences. We will stand better with the community if we
exhibit less concern for the strict legality of the appeal and
more for the !lecessity which prompts it."

4
' lf it he the fact, as seems to be suggested by him as an
excuse for going into this business, that the only opportunities
in your city open to a man, whereby he may earn a living, arc
in connection with the saloon business, it would seem as if the
future holds very little in store for that community."

XIII. One of our Boards of Relief submitted the follmving suggestions and queries:
''This Board of Relief is often importuned to give ai<l to
women who claim to be daughters of deceased .!\faster Masons,
and insist that they have, as a right, a claim ion the Fraternity.
''It is quite evident that if the daughters of deceased Master
J\Iasons be entitled to the same Masonic consideration after
attaining the ;:ige of majority as they are during their
minority, then the door of Masonry would be opened very
wide and the drain upon the funds would be exceedingly
great.
"Therefore. we wish to ask:
''\Vhat is the meaning of 'orphan' as applred to :\Iasonry?
Does the term 'orphan' 111 i\lasonry mean male, female, or both
male and female?
"Should there be any distinction made in extending
Masonic charity to the hoy or girl, the man or woman-they
being the offspring of a Master 1\fosnn?
"Would the marriage of the daughter make any difference
as to her Masonic standing?"
I replied in this vein :
"The word 'orphan' as used in Section 163 of the Constitution means the son or cla11g-hter of a 1\f aster Mason who 1s
deceased. and ()liviously includes both males and females.

I

~~-------------------

295

XTV. The word "jurisdiction," as found 111 subdivision 3rd of
Section 122 of our Constitution does not refer to a particular Lodge
but to the Grand Lodge; therefore a Master Mason, a resident within
the State '1f California, may lawfully and properly apply for affiliation
to any Lodge therein, and he is not subject to the qualifications of residence, as to time, exacted of petitioners for the degrees.
XV. The following questions involving procedure 111 Masonic
trials were presented:
"l. \Vhen charges have been preferred against a Brother
Mason, he has been tried and found guilty and an appeal is
taken by the accused and the same is reversed and the case
remanded for a new trial by the Grand Lodge, can the accuser
if he secs fit withdraw the charges and dispense with a new
trial or must the Lodge regardless of his desire to withdraw
the charges proceed with the new trial?
"2. Tn case Lodge proceeds with new trial, can the
accuser or the Lodge make any amendments to the charge 011
which the Brotlwr was originally tried or aclcl any additional
specifications to the same if he desires to do so, or must addi-

GH.\ND LOJJGI•~ OF CALJFOHNJA

tional charges and specifications Le made out separately and
another trial be had upon these charges against the same
Brother? In other words, can amendments or additional specil!cations he made or added to the original charge on the new
trial against same Brother by the accuser or the Lodge?"

turc. Such an objection is not provided for by our Constitution, the
rernedv liv a black hall being considered ample to prnent the election
of tt11~vo1:thy petitioners; to give efficacy to a simple objection mack
before ballot, no provision therefor having been made, would conduce
to confusion; if the objection should be withdrawn thereafter, within
the sixty-day period relating to objections made after election and before
initiation, a serious dilemma as to the proper course to he followed
would Le presented.

Jl.fy answers were:
"In answer to question No. 1, my understanding is, that
where the Grand Lodge passes upon an appeal and remands
the case for a new trial, it is not competent for the accttscr to
withdraw the charges. The Grand Lodge has determined that
the charges made present matters requiring an investigation in
order that it may be determined \vhcthcr or not the accused is
proper material to remain longer in the fraternity. Jn this view
of the case the proceeding is not a private one and ought not
to be withdrawn because of a failure of private prosecution.
.
"In answer to your second question, I would say, that it
is my understanding that it is proper that amendments to the
original charge can be made after a consideration of the appeal
by the Grand Lodge and the remanding of the trial. At least
ten days' notice of the amended charges would he given to the
accused and, without doubt, leave to amend should be obtained
from the Master."
XVI. There is no authority umler our law for the Grand Master
to. issu~ hi~ dispensation for a resident of California, temporarily
:01:H11~111~1g in another jurisdiction. to petition for the deg-recs in that
Jt~n:d1c~10n. Petitioner should apply to the Lodge within whose jurisd1ct10n 111 California he resides, for a waiver.
XVII. It is not in keeping with Masonic tradition for the Lodge
hy mere non-action on its part to permit the officers of one year to
hold over throughout the succeeding year. There can be no objection
to the re-election of the same officers, but the Grand Master will not
permit them to hold over merely because no election on the appointed
night was held.
XVTT.I. A unanirnotts report, favorable in character, was made by
the comnnttee to whom a petition for the degrees was referred. Subsequent thereto. but before a ballot, objection was made by a member to
the petition being voted mi.
l lt·l~l. th.at tl:t· Ludge slwukl proceell to ballot upon the petition upon
the connng m ot the fa\'Orahle report. If the ballot was clear and the
c~.llH~i<~a.te .<kclarul elected, it would then he competent for objection to
his 1111t1a!iun tu Le made; an objection made before ballot was prerna-

I

297

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

296

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-..~~~~~~

XIX. The records of a :'.\.Iasonic trial, together with the evidence
contained therein, belong lo the secret archives of the fraternity, and
it is a Masonic offense to divulge or publish them in a manner not
authorized by law. Their use in the trial of a divorce case in a State
court, or their introduction in evidence therein, except upon the order
of the court, is reprehensible and should suhject the Jl.Iason responsible
therefor to ·Masonic discipline.
XX. Being advised that one of our Lodges was not in possession
of the Middle Chamber Columns and the Floor Carpet, but made use
of a "wall carpet," in the conferring of the Fellow Craft degree, I felt
constrained to require them to purchase these articles as being "necessary to a proper and correct conferring of the work of the Fellow
Craft degree."
XXL It is not competent for a Lodge to amend a proposed amendment to its by-laws and then adopt such amended amendment without
giving the regular .10tice provided in Article XIII of the Uniform Cock.
In other words, written notice of the amendment art11all.v adopted must
have been given at a preceding stated meeting.
XXII. Inquiry was made by a member of the Auditing Committee
of a Lodge if it was proper and la wfnl for the funds of the Lodge to be
expended in the purchase of
(a)

Lambskin aprons for newly-made Master Masons;

(b) Sheepskin certificates to be presented to all members who
pass a satisfactory examination in open Lodge on the work of the Third
Degree, or for any other reason, or in any other manner whatsoever.
The gi,,ing of lambskin aprons to entered apprentices has been a
cttstom among our Lodges in California for such a period of time that
it is almost an ancient landmark, as I understand if. In my judgment
the purchase of aprons for such purpose falls clearly within the domain
of "necessary expenses" as provided for in Section 88 of our Constitution.

298

PHOCEEDING~

OF 'l'HE

The givi11g of sheepskin certificates, not as a mere gratuity, but as
a reward of merit, so to speak, to all members who pass a satisfactory
exa111ination in open Lodge in the work of the Third Degree, stands
upon a slightly different basis. I do believe however that there is
nothing intrinsically wrong in such a proceed,ing, that it is in nowise
a misuse of the funds of a subordinate Lodge, and can very properly
be classed as in "promotion of fraternal intercourse," expenditures in
aid of which may be made out of the ten per cent social fund under
the terms of Section 89. "Promotion of fraternal intercourse" is a
very comprehensive expression, and as long as a subordinate Lodge, in
good faith, uses the social fund to such an end as that general interest
and increased activity in the work of the order is promoted, it is my
belief that the supervisory powers of the Grand Lodge should be held
in restraint. It is impossible for me to say that the purchase and
bestowing of the certificates above referred to will not contribute to
added zeal, zest and enthusiasm on the part of the Lodge's membership.
Under such circumstances I must accept the judgment of the Lodge in
the premises, and therefore cannot enjoin the procedure complained of.

GRAND LODGJ<J OF CALIFORNIA

29!)

To adhere to the ruling heretofore announced it becomes necessary
to read the Constitution as if it said a "vote of the majority of the
members present" shall be necessary to elect. By the use of the true
language, however, "a majority of the 1•otcs" (i. e., preferences expressed-ballots cast) it seems clear to me that a very different signitication was intended.

In this conn~ction it is to be remembered that no power lies in
the l\f aster to compel qualified members present to vote by ballot for
officers, and if the construction announced is to be adhered to it could
easily happen that no choice could ever be made, because, a sufficient
number refusing to vote, or voting a blank ballot, no one could secL1 re
a majority of all members present and qualified to vote.
This matter will present itself for consideration very frequently at
the annual elections, and because of this fact should again receive the
attention of the Grand Lodge. It is only lwcause of its importance
that I am constrained to present it here for renewed consideration.

NECROLOGY

XXIII. Insistent effort was made to get me to annul a ruling of
my distinguished predecessor, Past Grand l\Jaster Murphey, which was
approved by the Grand Lodge, but because of motives of obvious propriety, I refused. Nevertheless, I can come to no other conclusion
than that the ruling in question was an erroneous one, and that this
Grand Lodge should recede from it.
Section 135 of the Constitution, having to do with elections in
subordinate Lodges, provides that "a majority of the votes of the members present shall be necessary to elect," and Section 140 provides that
"none but members in good standing whose dues are paid shall be
entitled to vote." Construing the two sections together, Past Grand
Master Murphey ruled that "it requires a majority vote of the members
present, who are entitled to vote, to determine an election."
It will be observed at once that the Constitution does not say, as
indicated by Past Grand Master Murphey, that a majority "vote" of
the members present is necessary to a choice; the language is "a majority of the votes of the members present." The difference, to my mind,
is most significant. When the Constitution refers to the requisite
"majority," of what is it speaking? Not members, as construed by
Past Grand Master Murphey, but of "votes." The word "votes'' means
formal individual expressions of preference by means of ballots or
otherwise. There is no "vote" as the word is here used unless there
is such expression of preference. and a "majority of the votes" means,
to my mind, just what it says, a majority of the expressions of preference, and not a majority of the members present and entitled to vote
but not voting, as heretofore held.

Tt affords me the greatest comfort and gratification to be able to
report to. you that no official of this Grand Lodge has departed his life
since our last Annual Communication. In that respect, at least, our
ranks arc still intact. Other jurisdictions. however, have suffered
because of 'the invasion of the King of Terrors, and as a result many
patient and faithful workers in the great Masonic Vineyard have been
removed from our midst. They have been called,
"Like watch worn and weary sentinels,
To put their armor off and rest in heaven."
Hut yesterday they were with us, holding aloft the banner of Freemasonry; today they are no more, and we do honor unto ourselves by
honoring them in that far off land.
"Like the leaves in the forest when Summer is green,
That host, with their banners, at sunset were seen;
Like the leaves in the forest when Autumn hath blown,
That host, on the morrow, lay wither'd and strown."
The following constitutes a complete list, so far as I have been
advised, of those who, standing high in Masonic Counsels in other jurisdictions, have now sought the peace and consolation that comes from
counsel with Him who holds us all in the hollow of His hand:
Alabama: Angus M. Scott. Grand Lecturer 1901-1915; born March
23, 1840; died February 16, 1915.

;JOO

l'HOCEElJl.NGc UF THE

Arizona: l\J artin \Villiam Kales, Past Grand .:\laster; horn Jun~
5, 1845; died July 14, 1915. Brother Kales was for many years a resident of Oakland, California, and was \vell known and loved by his
large number of friends.
Francis Asbury Shaw, Past Grand l\Iaster; horn April 27, 1832;
died April 10, 1915. The distinguished brother was a pioneer of California, having arrived at H angtown on the 8th of Se1)tember, 1850, and
lived in this State until 1870.
Briti~li Columbia: Israel Wood Powell, first Grand l\Iaster of the
jurisdiction; born April 27, 1837; died February 25, 1915.

Connecticut: Wilbur S. Comstock, Past Grand l\laster; born
/u1gust 16, 1849; <lied September 16, 1914.
Colorado: Harper l\I. Orahood, Past Grand l\Iastcr; horn June 3,
1841; died September 16, 1914.
George G. Slater, Grand Tiler since 1905; born January 25, 1849;
died October 8, 1914.
Delaware: Enoch l\Toore, Past Gran<l l\Iaster; born July 29, 1842;
died July 26, 1914.
George \V. l\Iarshal, Past Crancl l\Iaster; born August 31, 1854;
diL'd i\pri! 18, 1915.
Florida: Henry \V. Long, Past Grand Master; born February
3, 1831; died January 2, 1915.
Georgia: J 01111 El we rt Redwine Sr., Past Deputy Grand Master;
burn June 3, 1823; died January 2, 1915.

J oli11 R()l>crt \\'ilkinson, Grand Junior Warden; born June 20, 1856; ·
diL·d i\pri\ 7, 19J 5.
llli11ois: Edward Cook, Past Grand Master; born September 20,
1836; died l\fay 20, 1915.
Towa: Ccorge \Vashington Hall, Past Grand .Master; born June
7, 1847; died July 18, 1915.
Kansas: Erasmus T. Carr. Past Cran cl Junior \Varden and Past
( ~r;l11d Secretary; born October 25, 1825; died }\lay 12, 1915.
Da \'id Hlin Fuller, Past Grand Master; born January 18, 1853 ;
died }\[ ay 17, 1915.
kl'nt ucky: I lcnry Bostwick, Past Crand I\ Taster; horn November
14. 1827; died i\ugust 20, 1914.
\ \"arrcn Lame Thomas, Pa:;t Crane\ l\Iaster; born January 25, 1845;
diL·d ::\on'mhcr 24, 1914.

GL~.\NlJ LUUUl~

Ul•' CALlFUHNJA

;JOl

Manitoba: John Leslie, Past Cra1Hl .;\faster; horn August 16, 1852;
died February 13, 1915.
Maryland: John l\Tcrriken Carter, Crand l\f aster 1878-1879; born
February 5, 1843; died July 3, 1915.
Massachusetts: Thomas \Vhite Davis, Recording Grand Secretary;
died December 29, 1914.
Michigan: William \V ente, Grand Treasurer 1894-1914; born
February 22, 1848; died February 25, 1915.
Minnesota : Edgar Nash, Past Senior Grand \Vankn ; born 1832;
died June 6, 1915.
Mississippi: Frank Burkitt, Past Grand l\Iaster; born January
5, 1843; died November 18, 1914.
John Y. Murry, Past Grand l\T aster; born l\Iay 6, 1829; died July
12, 1915.
Nebraska: Harry Porter Deuel, Past Grand Master; born December 11, 1836; died Kovember 23. 1914.
Martin Dunham; horn Kovemher 10, 1836; died February 18, 1915.
John Jackson Mercer, Past Grand Master; horn January 1, 1833;
died February 25, 1915.
Charles J. Phelps, Past Crancl Master; horn September 13, 1839;
died August 24, 1915.
Albert: Wallace Crites, Past Grand l\f aster; born l\fay 12, 1848;
died August 23, 1915.
Nevada: Joseph A. Miller, Past Cra11d l\faster; born February
7, 1846; died December 8, 1914.
Philippine Islands: Burton Whitcomb. Deputy Crancl Master;
born December 16, 1855; died July 8, 1915.
Texas: Augustus Weyman Houston Sr., Past Grand Master;
born 1850; died February 21, 1915.
Tennessee: Henry Hurlbert Ingersoll, Past Grand Master; horn
January 20, 1844; died March 12, 1915.
Washington: Isaac Parker, Past Junior Grauel \Varden; horn
March 4, 1829; died October 13, 1914.
Wyoming: Frank M. Foote, Past Grand l\Tastcr; horn l\Iay 26,
1846; died November 13, 1914.
William L. Kuykendall, Grand Secretary for twenty-nine years;
died March 8, 1915.
Virginia: Alfred Ransom Courtney. Past Crancl l\f aster; horn
November 7, 1833 ; died November 4, 1914.
William H. Pleasants, Past Grand l\Iaster; died Nonmber 25, 1915.

PHOCEJ<JDINU~

UF '!'HE

RELA'flONS \.VlTH 01'1-IER JURISDJCTIONS.

I am pleased to advise the Crane! Lodge that our relations with
our sister jurisdictions arc still pleasant, harmonious, and conducive to
the general welfare of the Craft whithcrsoevcr dispersed.
The one aggravating source of friction between Grand Lodges, as
it has been brought home to me, is that of securing reimbursement
from subordinate Lodges of o1 her jurisdictions, for relief extended, or
money advanced to members of such Lodges sojourning within our
midst.
The idea has been advanced on one or two occasions that the
general practice of the fraternity is for each individual Lodge to be
resp~nsible for, and take care of, all Masons within its jurisdiction;
that is to say, of all sojourning nearer that Lodge than any other Lodge,
irrespective of the particular lodge or jurisdiction wherein they hold
th.eir membership. It has occurred to me that such a plan of procedure
will not work out well in practic_e, and that it ought to be discouraged.
If our members leave us and go into foreign lands or j misdictions, we
cannot know or appreciate their actual needs and we must rely to a
great extent upon the investigations and conclusions of those Masons
who may be upon the ground. However. I do not believe that we
should deliberately deliver into someone else's keeping, the sole responsibility of determining the amount of relief or succor which shall be
accorded, together with the degree of worthiness to be attributed, to
;t member of one of our own Lodges.
His individual merits or demerits
which may be known to us alone, will operate in arriving at the amount
of relief of which he should be the recipient. For that reason it is my
belief that the more rational course to pursue is for each subordinate
Lodge to consider itself in duty bound to take care of its own members
wherever they may be, as their necessities may be brought to its atten~ion and as their worthiness may be understood and appreciated, and
111 furtherance of this end that it should regard it as its duty to
reimburse any Loclg-e which may have expended moneys, npon its request
or authorization, for one of its own members.
In addition, T believe that much embarrassment will be saved future
Grand Masters if, by this Grand Lodge, they be authorized to refuse
to enter into correspondence with other Grand Masters for the purpose
of seeking reimbursement for moneys expended, unless some sort of an
~tuthorization has been received by the Lodge asking for reimbursement,
from the Lodge of which the recipient of assistance was a member in~
dicating the character of the relief for which such Lodge would be I1eld
responsible. Tf other jurisdictions refuse to reimburse our si1horclinatc
Lodges for assistance rcnc!crecl to Masons who arc in posses.sion of all
of the evidence which show them entitled to Masonic relief, simply
because the granting of relief was not autiior;;:.-r~(~ ..;y such foreign

GRAND LODG.E OF CALIFORNIA

303

jurisdiction-and I can assure you that that has been the case in
several instances brought to my attention during the past year-then
it would seem to follow as a matter of protection to our own subordinate
Lodges, and as a saving of time and useless effort of future Grand
Masters, that no request for reimbursement should be recognized except in the face of an authorization for the original expendittire.
I inherited from my predecessor a controversy with the Grand
Master of Pennsylvania over the initiation by two of our Lodges of
two petitioners who had theretofore been rejected hy Lodges in Pennsylvania, and over whom Pennsylvania claimed perpetual jurisdiction.
I end~vored to persuade the Grand Master of Pennsylvania that
our Lodges in California had acted in perfect good faith in the matter;
that they were unaware of the claim to perpetual jurisdiction indulged
in by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, and that, although inquiries
llad been made by them of the Lodges in Pennsylvania which had theretofore rejected the material applying in California, no intimation had
been conveyed of any objections on the part of the Lodges in Pennsylvania, and they had acted on the assumption that no objection
existed.
In addition, I was led to admonish the Grand Master of Penn~ylvania that "the Grand L:::idge of California does not recognize in
any degn.'c at all your claim to perpetual jurisdiction over rejected
candidates applying within the jurisdiction of your Grand LoClge. We
consider a candidate ;vho has resided for at least one year within this
jurisdiction, and who is in good faith a citizen of this State, available
material for membership here, if he possesses the requisite qualifications
in other respects.
"While at all times our Lodges will be most desirous, of course, of
submitting to your Grand Lodge requests for waiver of jurisdiction,
and for information and advice as to the character and standing of
proposed candidates for initiation here who may theretofore have
petitioned in Pennsylvania, nevertheless we decline to be bound or to
recognize the rule of perpetual jurisdiction as contended for by your
Grand Lodge, and I apprehend that it would be unprofitable further to
discuss, either the reasons for, or the righteousness of, our conduct
in so doing."
In spite of the circumstances as above outlined, however, the edict
of the Grand Master of Pennsylvania issued against the Brethren and
they cannot hope for Ma sonic recognition, or the privilege of Masonic
intercourse in Pennsylvania, and I doubt not that that result will
follow in every instance of like character where we initiate a candidate
whom we have considered proper to share in our privileges in California,
but against whom objection may be raised by some individual in

:;0.1
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pennsylvania. N evcrthckss, as a matter of comity. and for the purpose
of preserving the harmonious relations which should exist between
Grand Lodges, as fully as possible, T ha\"C consistently endeavored to
make request of the Grand Lodge of Pennsyh·;mia for a withdrawal of
its objection, whenever its rejected material \Vas under consideration,
;a1d in the event of the failure to obtain such \vithdrav,;al. i1ave advised
our own lodges who have asked information, that they could, with the
utmost propriety under California law, proceed and confer the degrees
upon the petitioner if he were acceptable to them, despite the fact
of the ohjection and proposed edict of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
CO'.'<Fl~RJ~NCE 01: CR.\NIJ M.\S1'ERS.

Early in December of last year I was in receipt of a verv courteous
communication fro 11 the Most \\'orshipful Grand Master -of Oregon
asking me as to what action, ii :;ny, nur Grand Jurisdiction had taken
with reference to the proposed Convcn1ion of Grand Masters for 1915
111 California.
1

It seems that he had not theretofore heen apprised of the action of
this Grand Lodge in the matter of the adoption of the report of our
Committee on Jurisprudence at the Annual Communication two years
ago. I thereupon transmitted to him a copy of the report and resolutions then acloptecl and in addition felt constrained to offer this
personal suggestion of my o\vn :

"Tn line with the resolut10n of the Grand Lodge, if your
Crand Lodge shall deem it advisable to suggest the holding of
such a convocation as above mentioned, in California in 1915,
you can rest assured that insofar as the holding of the same
is concerned you will have my earnest co-operation and assistance. Tt is obvious, of course, that the Grand Lodge of California declines, and in my own judgment properly, to participate in any SL1ch convocation having for its ultimate encl
the establishment of a National or other governing body of
Masonry. We in California purpose not thus to abdicate our
sovereignty 1n matters Masonic in this Grand J uriscliction."
Thereupon I rcceiyecl a further communication from the Grand
J\I aster of Oregon, in which he said:

"\Ne here cannot he unmindful of the delicacy of your
proposal to make any arrangement during 1915 to afford facilities and hospitality, alvvays so ready, within your jurisdiction
to tts and others for such a convention to be held in your State,
nor unmindful at the same time that this delicacy is strained
hy the official action of the Grand Lodge of your jurisdiction
practically regarding the mat tl'rs w hie h set the movement

l

~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~

305

originally on foot throug·h the suggestion of Brother Burnett
as a disposition to create a governing bocly usurping the sovereignty of the several Grand Jurisdictions.
"far be it from ns, therefore, to suggest any course of
conduct, and particularly to carry it on in your jurisdiction
which in its ultimate results might he or become in any wise
distasteful or inharmonious.
"So this suggestion is offereci, ancl believe me in the exercise of the utmost consideration. would it not be better for
Oreaon to make her own arrangement to convene and afford
thes: people facilities and hospitality inasmuch as the intimations first came from here and any compromise of the attitude
of vour Grand Lodge by the mere receiving and entertaining
of them could thereby be avoided.
"l\f v•anxietv is, while affording these brethren a chance to
meet a1~d showing them courtesy and hospitality, yet it shall
be with that humility and considerate aspect of mind which will
always preserve and keep the harmonious relation that I am
happy to say the annals of our institution show have never be:n
sullied by any untoward instance between your Grand J unsdiction and this of ours.
"Will you please give me, therefore, at your convenience
your frank expression on this subject, for it will relieve me of
considerable embarrassment to be able to announce to these
Brethren a definite course which will be for their refusal or
adoption."
Thereupon I felt e111holclc11ecl to dispatch the follcnving letter
reply:
"January 9th. 1915.

''Mr. William C. Bristol,
Grand JI.faster of A1aso11s of Oregon,
Portland, Oregon.
"MosT vVoRSH IPfUL SIR: Your esteemed favor of the 5th
instant is at hand.
"You can rcadilv rcali;'.'.e that I am laboring under some
considerable embarr;ssment in connection with your proposed
convention of Grand Masters in California in 1915. As is
obvious to you, our own Grand Lodge has taken a decidedly
adverse attitude to partici1)ation in such a convention. It would
ill become me therefore, as Grand Master, to do anything which
would encourage the holding of such a convention, much less
to participate in its deliberations. Acting under the authority
of the resolution trammitted to you I would deem it my duty,

Ill

306

PHOCE:EDINGS OF 'l'HI<;

as well as my inexpressible pleasure, to see that a place was
provided in San Francisco for the holding of your convention.
I would hold myself in readiness to afford you every convenience and comfort which the hospitality of the :Masons
of California could reasonably suggest. I would perforce, however, feel constrained to hold myself aloof from the convention
and could in no wise do anything which \\·ould give to it
official sanction. as emanating from the Grand .Master's station.
"If you de:-,irc to hold a convention this year and feel
that better results could be secured by the holding of it in
California, rest assured that I will use every means at my
command to sec tl.1at the proper opportunity is presented you
and that your stay among us is a pleasant one. Other than
that, however. I feel that my hands are tied.
"From what has gone before do not draw the inference
that I am not in full accord with the action of our Grand Lodge
here in California with respect to the propriety of holding such
a convention as is herein under consideration. On the contrarv
the spirit and purpose which moved our Grand Lodge to tak~
the action it did meets with my hearty concurrence.
"Trusting that I may he afforded the ·Opportunity to express to yon sometime in person, those high considerations
whkh have ever been entertained hy the Masons of California
for their loyal and lovable fraters of Oregon, I am as ever,
''Fraternally yours,
BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,
Grand _;\.faster of Masons in California."
Tlwn'upon I w<>s advised by the Grand Master of Oregon that he
would cause invitations to be sent out for a conference of Grand
.l\Iasters to meet in Portland some time during the year. In pursuance
thereof your Grand :>.faster was in receipt of an invitation datetl
August 7th, 1915, directed to the Grand Masters of the Grand Jurisdictions of the United States, Canada, Saskatchewan and Alberta, and
the York Grand Lodge of l\Iexic:o to meet in conference in the Citv of
Portland on the 5th, 6th and 7th of the present month. In kee~ing
with my former attitude in the premises I felt constrained fraternally
to decline this very kind invitation, and have since been advised hy the
Craml Secretary of OregrJn that owing to the fact that a large number
d the Grand l\fasters of the jurisdictions named fou~1d it impossible
to he present. and several like myself expressed opposition to the
meeting, it wa:-; dder111i11e1l that the proposed conference should not
be held.

GHAND LODGE OF CALII<,ORNIA

307

THE MCGREW CASE.

It will he a matter of genuine information, I apprehend, to those
who have been somewhat constant attendants upon this Grand Lodge.
to learn that a controversy approaching in seriousness a cas11s bclli,
bas existed between this Grand Lodge and the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts over a subject which has never been brought to the attention
of this Grand Body. Past Grand Master Hart, as Chairman of the
Committee on Fraternal Correspondence, has presented the subject in
considerable detail in his last Annual Report, and therein he quotes
from a report of a Committee of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts
wherein it is said that the apparent ahsencc of effort by the Grand
Lodge of California to learn or consider the feelings and position of
the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, leads "your committee to feel that
the subject has not been treatetl with the consideration due from one
(~rand Lodge to another;" the Committee then go on to suggest
that they do not think it advisable "at present'' to recommend the sus1~ension of Correspondence and of l\fasonic Relations with the Grand
Lodge of California, yet they do in no uncertain or ambiguous language
reaffirm their position, with the intention, apparently, of awaiting some
action on our part before taking final action on theirs.
Manifestly and assuredly there has heen no intention on the part
of this Grand Lodge to treat the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts with
any discourtesy, and this because of the fact that no reference to t111.·
controversy has ever heen made in this Crand Lodge and consequently
it canno,t justly be charged with any sins either of commission or of
omission. The matter having been brought to my attention, however,
in the manner hereinahovc indicated, I deem it my duty to lay it before
the Grand Lodge for such consideration and action upon its part as
may he deemed meet in the premises.
Very briefly, as cu tled from the Report of the Correspondence
Committee, the facts are, that one G. H. G. l\kGrew was expelled
from Masonry hy the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts in 1894. In 1904
he presented his petition to the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts for
restoration to the rights and privileg~s of Masonry. After hearing
before a committee of the Grand Lodge, and after action by that
body, the petition was denied, but the petitioner was granted leave,
however, to withdraw his petition for restoration. He was advised
by letter in 1905 of the receipt and consideration of the petition and
that "after a full discussion it was decided that the petitioner have
leave to withdraw." Thereafter in 1906 application was made in behalf
of McGrew to the Grand Master of Massachusetts that he excrd~e
his prerogative and reinstate McGrew to the rights and privileges of
::\fasonry, which application, however, was denied by the Grand Ma:-ter
en the ground that he had no authority to take the action requested.

.

308

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The petitioner thereafter in 1907 applied to Durant Lodge No. 268
for affiliation, using the letter which had been transmitted to him as
hereinabove referred to, as a dimit. It seems that the letter was
accepted by Durant Lodge as a dimit and the petitioner was dnly
elected to membership therein.
Trrespecti\·e of any other considerations which may have to do with
a solution of 1he controvl·rsy, assuming the verity of the matters contained in the l\Iassachnsetts report, these facts seem to stand out in
the forefront of any discussion of the case, \·iz .. that ·McGrew was
regularly cxpelk·cl hy the Crand Lodge of l\fassachusetts; that. he has
nc\·er been restored to membership hy that hody; that, knowmg that
he had been expell1..:d and knowing that he had not hee11 restored to
membership, he nen-rthdcss secured admission into a Lodge in California hv the use nf a paper which it would seem he knew was not
internkcl- as a dimit, hut which he presented to Dnr;int Lodge in this
State, as
dimit from the Grand Lodge of flfassaclrnsetts. If these
facts he trnc it occnrs tn me that there is considerable impropriety
in the Grancl Lodge of California permitting one of its suhordinatl'
Lodges to harhor and hold out to the world as worthy of fliasonic
eonsiclcration and intercourse a man who has hecn regularly expelled
from l\I asonry, and who has nc\·cr been restored thereto.
On the other hand, if Brother McGrew acted in good faith
thron"hont the proceeding and himself actually believed that the paper
t rans1~ittccl tu him in 1905 was a di;nit or Certificate of \Vithdrawal
from l\Tasonn in fllassaclmsetts, then he is the victim of an unjust irnin·tation i:('ea.usc of the publication of the reports_ as _hercinah~ve set
forth and is entitled to \'indication i11 some fasluon ln the tnhunals
oi this fraternity.
therefore recomrneml that the controvcrs\· in the matter of
G. 11. G. l\T cGrcw he rcierred to the Committee. on Jurisprudence of
this Crancl Lodge with request that they consider the same and report
such action as. in their judgment, should he taken hy this Grand
Lodge in order that justice may he done and that the good name of
r.nr ,fraternity in California may Pot he permitted to fall into disr<'putc.

NATIONAL l:RAND LODGE OF 1-'RANCE,

l\[y distinguished predecessor, Judge Murphey, last year recommended the reco()'nition
hy t1s of the Independent National Grand
0
Lodge of Fra 11 ce. Tn so far as T have been ahlc to ascertain. from
the records, no final action was taken on that recommendat1on, it
having heen referred to the i11coming Committee on Jurisprudence.
S,ince the last Annual Comrntmication, however, I have been. in
rel·cipt nf correspo11de11ce and the report of the Committee on Foreign

UH.\ND LUJ lGI<~ 01•' C.\ LlFOHNlA

309

Relations of the Crarnl Lodge of
a11d from that repor1
it would seem as if some of the claims made in behalf of the aforesaid
Independent National Grand Lodge of France were without foundation.
From the report presented to the l\Iassachusctts Grand Lodge it would
seem to be a mattc-r of doubt
to whether or not the Holy Bible is
npon the Altar during the time a Lodge is open. It seems also
dellnitdy established, according to the writer of the l\Iassachusetts
report, that th('. Independent :\ational Grand Lodge had not been
recognized at all hy England; that the members affiliating therewith
"treated the matte1· as a humorous transaction" and stated "that the
new body did not consist of more than two existing Lodges with a
possible third, and that there
not probablv more than sixtv mem1Jers all told; that its head was one Rihaucort, -who until withi1; a vear
had been active in the. Grand Ori<:nt, with which all English-speai.. ing
Cram! Lodges severed connection in 1877.'' In view of these statements
•it would seem to me hardly addsable to extend recognition to the
1ndepenclent X ational Gran cl Lodge of France.

GR.\ND ORIEXT OF

ITALY.

During the cour~c of the past spring your Gram!
the Grand
Past Grand l\Iastcr Filmer, Past Grand Master Hart, Chairman of the Committee on Corr<:spondencc, and some other Brethren.
met with Past Grand J\Iaster Erne:;:to ::-Zathan and Grand l.Iaster Ferrari:
(1£
the Grand Orient of Italy, who were extrernclv desirous that
fraternal recognition should he accorcled by our Gra1;cl Lodge to the
Grand Orient of Italy.
\Ve ascertained at this -confc;·cncc that the Grand Orient of Italv
now conforms in every substantial respect to the requirements, as w~
understand them, of regularity in Free l\Iasnnry. The regular Blue
Lodge degrees are divorced from, and arc no longer under the control
or dominion of. the Scottish Rite Bodies in Italv. The Bible i<>
rccognb:ed
the rule and guide of their faith, and "there would seen~
to he no reason why the regular Italian l\fasons in California should
not be permitted to hold l\fasonic intercourse with their Brethren of
the old countr.v holding allegiance to the Grand Orient therein. It
was emphatically stated to Grand l\foster Ferrari, hO\\'ever, that the
Grand Orient of Italy had invaded several American jurisdictions and
established Italian Lodges therein; that so long as this course was
persisted in we could not, having due regard to the amenities of the
occasion as bctv..•een our sister Americm1 jurisdictions and ourselves,
gi,·e countenance to the claims of regularity and conformitv on the
part of the Grand Orient of Italy. \Ve did, however, ass~tre them
that it would he a pleasure for us to he able to extend fraternal recog-

PROCJDEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGT<J OF CALIFORNIA

to the Grand Orie11t and that such might be accomplished were
the charters of th~ Lodges in our sister jurisdictions hereinabove
referred to withdrawn. This, it was promised, would be done.
I
therefore recommend that the incoming Grand Master be authorized
to extend recognition to the Grand Orient of Italy, when he shall be
satisfied that the Grand Orient is no longcl· invading any of our
.\merican jurisdictions.

That it should have laid heavy tribute upon the sympathy and
compassion of the civilize:l world was obvious; that Freemasonry,
giving dne heed to the cn:s coming out of the wilderness of woe,
should have been touched, as it ilas never been touched before, on its
sympathetic side, vvas but the natural result of our teachings, our
;1ssocia tions and ~ur pr act ices .

:;10
111t1011

NA'fIONAL l\LASONlC SANA'fORJUM.

Last fall T was advised by an institution known and entitled as
"The National l\Iasonic Sanatorium Association," that an association
had been formed by the !\lasons of Texas, whose pJ.lrposcs were the
building, acqnisition, mvnership and maintenance of a sanatorium or
hospital for the treatment of all Masons and members of their immediate families who might be aff-lictcd with tuberculosis.
It was stated that the association would erect in the near future
a building which would cost not less than $250,000.00, and that the
<mtsidc lmilclings, equipment anrl other conveniences would cost not less
than a like sum, in addition.
The purpose was to establish the
sanatorium near San Antonio, the climate of which was vouched for
:is being peculiarly suitable for the treatment of tuberculosis patients.
Request was nnde for assistance from the Grand Lodge of Caliiornia, and also for leav·~ to circulate requests for contributions from
uur suliordinatc Lodges. To this invitation I felt constrained· to reply
that, in my judgment, a Nation<.! Sanatorium along the lines indicated
\Yotdd not work out v.;ith the practicality, effectiveness and harmony
\Yhich ought to attach to an institution given over to such purposes.
1 \Yas fearful that too many \arying interests would conflict in any
such institution, national in its scope and extent, and therefore I felt
constrained to withhold my official approval in the matter. My permission to circulate requests among· the Lodges in this State for
L·ontrihutions \Yas also cienied upon the same grounds.

:\IASONJC WAR RELIEII ASSOClA'flON.

The one prominent, yea pre-eminent feature of the history of the
year just passed, has, of course, been the almost world-wide war which
has waged its ruthless and devastating way across the face of nearly
the entire continent of Europe, leaving in its wake. death, desolation,
sorrow ancl suffering.
It stands without parallel as the greatest
catastrophe in the annals of the globe, seemingly, to us, a causeless,
purposeless and useless ckstruction of life, property, liberty and
; nca lcu lahlc treasure.

311

In response to the pleas of mercy and humanity in this behalf,
it was felt by some that a national organized mo\'ement of Masons
should be hacl, and as a result early in K ovember of last i;ear a
telegram was received by your Grand Master, from William B lvielish
Past Grand Master of Masons of the State of Ohio, and Pa~t Grand
Master of the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar of the United
States, couched in the following language:
"As Grand Master you arc fraternally urged to attend in
person or by proxy a conference to be helcl in Cincinnati on
Saturday and S1;nday of next week at the Hotel Sinton, to form
the Masonic vVar Relief Association of the United States
organized . to collect funds for the relief of Masons, thei;
families, their widows ancl orphans, many of them made destitute by the terrible ravages of war in Europe.
"It is proposed that the Advisory Committee shall consist
of the several Grand Masters, who will be appealed to to solicit
contril.mtions from their several Grand Lodges ancl from
Grand Lodge funds. Ohio stands ready in her Grand Lodge
and other Grand Bodies to do her full duty. The Grand Officers of the National Bodies of Free l\Iasonry will engage in
this work locally and will attend conference. Special attention
will he given to the needs of Masonic Brethren in Belgium.
Here is a very pressing need of relief for Masons and their
families in nearly all the countries engaged in this horrible
war.
"It is proposed that the appeal to Masons and Masonic
Bodies shall go out as near an agreed elate as possible, say
about December First to Fifth.
"I trust you will give your official approval and co-operation
in this g-reat work and ask your prompt reply by telegraph."
It being impossible for me to attend this conference in person,
and our Very vVorshipful Grand Secretary Brother Whichcr beinoat the time on his vacation, and in Chicago,' he very kindly co:1sentcd
to go to Cincinnati and represent me as my proxy thereat. After the
conference had been held as planned, I was in receipt of a report from
Brother vVhichcr relative to what had taken place, ancl in which I
was advised by him of the conclusions reached. Tt seemed that the

I'H.OCKl£DlNGS OF TilE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

plight of lklgin111 thrn appealed partirnlarly to the sympathies of those
present, altl1011gh it was iinally decided to make whate\·er relief was
determined upon applicable to all co11ntries and all classes of deserving
~11ffercrs; something like 44 jurisdictions out of 49 had wired Brother
l\Ielish that they favored a :\ ational Masonic Relief Association,
ancl, in conseq11e;1cc, lhotlE'r \Vhicher, \\'hile explaining to the conference our attitude as voiced hy the rqwrt of the \Var Relief Committee adopted at our last ~\nn:1al Comm1111ication, ne\·erthekss assured
them that California woulcl hl)w to tl1e JlHlgment nf the others ancl
wonlcl co11trih1tc her foll sh;1rc of wh;1tcn'r might he reqnircd. Upon
the receipt of Brother \\'hicher's report and the formal appeal which
\\·as sent out hy the Conference, J c11(lca\·orcd to gi\·c the matter my
earnest ancl most prayerful consideration, and also advised at some
length with uthcr Crancl Officers. Jn this behalf I recalled to mind
the la11g11;1ge 0£ the report of the aho\·c-mentioned committee adopted
hy this Crancl Locl;..;c one year ago, i11 which we said:
"This subject needs consideration from a calm, sensible and
\\Tll-halancecl ~·tandw•int, free from the hysteria incident to
times of war. and the rashness to assist withont knmving where
and how to apply the proj)Cr and acleq11atc relief. California
has a world-wide reputation for its h11ma11ity. sympathy with
the distre.'ised and as,;istmcc \Yith snbstantial aid. The ".\Iasonic
Fraternity of this great State and jtiriscliction will not he
found wanting when the time comes to give aid in this instance,
lint we do not believe that that time has come.
"\Ve heg leave to here quote the. time-worn adage:
'Charity hegins at home.' How many men in this Grand Jurisdiction who arc members of. the Craft, have answered the call
for the rescnist and gone to the front while their families
remain here, possibly in need? \Ve will not have the answer
until matters adjust themselves and when the little savings
upon \\·hi~h existence is now dependent have heen exhausted."
Thereupon I w;1s constrained to transmit to Brother Melish, the
of the Executive Committee of the Masonic War Relief
:\ssociation,-which was formed by conferees at Cincinnati, the following
commnnication:
Chairm~tn

'•Jfr. Ir. B. Jiclislz, Esq.,
Clzair11u111 !Jxccuticz•e Committee,
Jlaso11ic H'ar Relief Associatio11,
Cinci1111ati, Ohio.
'':\fo,;'l' \VoRslIIPI·TL SIR:

Realizing the responsibility rest-

111g· upon me. as the executive head of the ".\fasonic Fraternity

in California, 111 cnnncctinn with the organization of the \Var

Relief Association and of your request for a contribution thereto
in aid of the stricken and suffering ones in and about the war
zone in Europe, I lv1ve given the matter earnest and prayerful
thonght, and have taken counsel with many of the distinguished
Brethren in my State.
"It stands, of course, as true, that California desires not to
he considered as a laggard in any sense of the word in the
matter of l\fasonic charity. ]t stands also as trne, that we
of this State :ire profoundly indebted to the l\Iasons of the
world generally for remedial assistance of a snhstantial nature,
extended to us in most generous mood at the time when our
futnre looked black indeed. This grateful spirit npon our part,
however, which I kno\v will grow within us as the years roll
on, onght not, in my judgment, to cause me to fail to keep
in mind those considerations of duty and of good ethics which
should never actu~te those possessed of executive anthority
in our fraternity.
('As an indiviclnal. my heart goes out to the suffering
citizens of Belgium; as an individt al, I have contributed, and
purpose in the future to contribute again, to such funds as
may be collected for their assista11ce and benefit. As a Mason,
however, and particularly as the Grand l\Iaster of the entire
Masonic. Brotherhood of California. r feel that I am not authorized to divert any of the funds of our order to the relief of
the Belgians, howsoever greatly they may be suffering and
irrespective of their present actnal needs; and this for the
reason that to do so would, without doubt, excite adverse
criticism on the part of our good German Brethren, of whom
we 'have many in California, and who, entertaining the feeling
which they clo that their mother conntry is rightfully at war with
Belgium, would naturally ancl with reason, resent any show of
preference or sympathv for the people of Belgium e\·idcnced
by such action z,s I have referred to above.
1

"If, on the other hand. we should take the broader view
oi the situatio:1, as seems to have been taken laterly at the
conference at Cincin11ati and solicit funds for the relief of
those genera1ly within the war zone, thereby aiming to extend
snccor to all in need, irrespective of their nationality or creed,
we would he doing the thing which, it seems to me, that
Masonry, of all institutions on earth shonlcl not deliberately
do. to-wit: prc)\'ide additional sinews of war for those engaged
in human slaughter. Ottr organization docs not stand for war,
but for peace; that peace that cornpasseth the hnrnan unclerstanding-, that peace that ought always to obtain among sentient

31:.J

314

PlWCEEDlNGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

heings, the p<:ace that Christ taught to His followers on earth,
t lie peace that ought to be the handmaiden of civilization and
of intelligence; and if this horrible war must last longer,
leaving in its vvake more heart breaks. more sorrow and more
tears, it seems to me that we ought not by any affirmative act
of ours . as an institution, do that thing which will directly or
e\'en indirectly accentuate and increase the horror on the one
side, or the sorrow and suffering on the other, by providing
munitions of war for those who may be engaged therein. If we
gather together a fund and send it across the water ostensiblv
for the purpose of relieving the suffering an<l the clestitut~
the various cotuitrics which are at war. I cannot rid myself
of the belief that \H'. ;ire thereby materially lessening the bun.len
resting upon those selfsame countries, and arc thereby, and to
a substantial degree aiding, 1f 11ot inspiring, them to a prolongation of the fearful warfare in which they are engaged.

It is only proprr. however, to add, that, as suggested in my letter
to the subordinate Lodges on this subject, the time will come, and my
constant prayer
that it may come soon, when Peace will once more
resume her wonted sway; then the period of rehabilitation will begin,
then the constructive dispositions and tendencies of our natures will
be appealed to, and then we must prove ourselves one
the world's
real agencies for good hy our unstinted efforts to do good to all the
worl<L • \Ve must, now, in preparation for this heaven-sent task.
reverse the time worn maxim, :rnd in time of war prepare for peace.
We must begin, now, to garner the seed wherewith we will sow the
crop, and wherefrom the 5tricken peoples of the world will reap the
harvest, of true friendship, true benevolence, and world-wide brotherhood. of whkh, we know. in a saner time, their portion will be most
ample. Let our purses be filled, even as our hearts will be willing;
then on the appointed day when God shall call on the better Angels
of our nature to wipe away the tears of His people, love will engender
forgiveness, duty will demand compliance, and preparedness on our part
will permit of consummation.

"California flfasonry ·,vill willingly, yea gladly submit to
any sacrifice which lws for its purpose the relief of those in
<listrcss. hut frds disinclined to extend such relief when the real
result thereof will in all probability add to, rather than take
from, the totality of human suffering.
"\Vhat I have sai<l hefore, as yon may well understand
refers to the situation as it exists at the present. In the light
of new dcYClopments and in the face of an opportunity for the
display of true charity. pure :md un<lefiJed. we will gladly join
with you in ci.ny movement of a forward looking nature for
the race.

"\Vith sincerest ;issurances of personal regret that I am
unable to bring myself in accord with your own views of the
proprieties 011 the present occasion, I am,
Cordially and fraternally yours,
BENJAMIN F. Bu:nsoE,
Grand Master of l\Iasons in California."

Since that time the progress of events has not sufficed to change
my origiual views and conclusions in the premises, but I am, never·

thekss, submitting the entire matter to the Grand Lodge at this time.
without any recommendation other titan such as is apparent from the
terms of my letter to Brother J'\1elish, with the confident hope and
rxpectation, however, that this Grand Lodge, in its wisdom and mercy,
will cnndnde tn do ihe thing vvh1cl1 the <lictates of gnnd judgment, t1mkr
all tlie circ11111sta11c<'s, will l'l'f(llire should he done.

----------······~-------·-----------~------------

315

Hope· sometimes outweighs experience, and in that spirit I am
looking forward with unrestr;iined expectancy and joy to the clay
when
shall assist in permanently planting the banner of
Civilization on the far-fiung h:ittle line of the Future, whose wars,
God grant, will. be waged arnl won, \vithout blood and without injustice.

"\i\T ere half the power that fills the world with terror,
\Vere half the vvr:alth bestowed on camps and courts,
Given to redeem the human mind from error,
There were no need of arsenals nor forts."
As a part of the correspondence had with the Relief Association
during the course of the year, all of which is submitted to the Grand
Lodge for its 'inspection and perusal, if deemed necessary, I append
hereto a copy of the last hulletin of the association. which shows somewhat in detail what has been accomplished, both
to moneys received
and relief extended.

316

PROCEEDINGS OF' 'l'HliJ

(Tl!E i\L\SONIC \V.\R RELIEF .\SSOCL\TIO:\ OF TILE
UI\ITED STXl'ES. BULLETIN, SEPTE.\IBER 15, 1915.)
"The work of the .\lasonic \Var Relief Association has
heen carried 011 during the past three mouths. and with gratircsults. An appeal reached us through the Supreme
Council, Scot ti sh Rite, of Greece. asking for a contribution for
the relief of Scottish Rite Masons in Serda. The ExectttiH'
Committee sent $500 as a first response, arnl has asked for a
more complete report of the work being clone. ,\ response has
been received from Servia as follows: 'The Supreme Council
of Servia sends warmest thank,; for your contriht:tion of $500
and for your humanitarian act. happy that they can mention,
among other donors, your great Body, etc. \Ve beg you tn
bdie\·e in our most devoted fraternal sentimellts. Jov :\leksejevic, 33°, Grand Chancellor. Grand Secretary.'

~
I

"The Grand Lodge of Belgium has granted pern11ss1011 to
one of its Lodges to meet in Holland a11d to carrv on the work
of l\lasonic relief among· Iklgian rcfngccs in lfoll,~ml. \Ve have
sl'nt $500 in answer to its appeal.
"The amounts contrilmtcd liy Crand Bodies from June 15th
to Scptcmlwr 15th. 1915, arc as follows:
(~rand Lodges
Grand Commanderics ................... ..........................

155.00

Grand Chapters ......................................................... 4,080.50
of the Shriners ........................... .
Scottish Rite Bodies
From Sundry Sonrccs

317

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

292.00
160.00
5.00
$9,428.35

"During the past three months the l\lasonic \Var Relief
Association has, hy order of its Executive Committee, sent the
following amo1111ts to Europe:
Supreme Council. Scottish Rite, of Belgium ....$1.000.00
Branch in London of Masonic \Var Relief Ass'n
(partly for Orphans' Fund. children of
• soldiers)
1,000.00
Grand Lodge of l\Iasons in Switzerland (aid
to refugees' second donation)............................ 500.00
Supreme Council Scottish Rite of Servia
(through the Snprcmc Council of Greece).... 500.00
Belgian Lodge, meeting in Holland hy authority
of Grand Lodge of Belgium ..... ··--···················· 500.00
$3.500.00
Council of the Southern 1\I asonic
"The
tion l,1as forwarded us a donation from the Sovereign Grand
Consistory in Japan.
"Our Association is taking up a new campaign for contributions for the relief of l\fasonic war sufferers and their
families in Europe. \Ve arc receiving reports from 1\fasonic
\Var Relief Associations and Funds in Europe, and from Grand
Bodies of JHasonry in the countries at war, and in the neutral
nations surrounding them. The needs of the sufferers arc
growing greater as the war progresses. The European Masonic Relief Associations ~ire rapidly using up their local funds.
"Soliciting the co-operation of l'vfasons and :\Iasonic Bodies
throughout the United States, we 1·ernain,
Fraternally yours.

Tm·: l\L\SONJc \VAR RF'.Ln:r Assoc1.\'l.'10N_,
R. MELTSII.
Chairman Executive Committee."

\VJT.LTA1\1

''This makes tlw tot;1l receipts of the Association to date
as f,illows ·
Cra1Hl Lodges

......$29,48i.38
Crane! Commanclcries ............................................. .. 10,061.84
Crand Chapters .......................................................... .. 12.740.iS
Trn1plcs of the Shrincrs ..
8.94i.91 r
Scottish Rite Bodies
1.785.00
Frnm Sundry Sonrccs

2,258.42

$65,281.30

:IL\SONJC

'f:81\1PLE'.i ASSOCTATlOK.

In my judgment, brethren, no more important matter \vill present
itself for consideration licfore this Crancl Lodge than the subject of
our duty with respect to the indebtedness now existing npon the
building in which we are met.
At our last Annual Communication. by adoption of the report of
our Finance Con11nittt~e, the Crantl Lodge (kerned it inadvisable. at
that time, to suhscrihc for additional stock of the Temple J\ssociation,
:llthough such additional subscription was urged hy the Temple Association itself and approved of, in a general way, by the then Grand

:ns
~lastl'r.

I'IWCEI<;DINGS OF' THE

The plan was conccivecl, however, and I confess that I was

~t party to it and urged its adoption, of satisfying the present indebted-

ness through the rneclittm of a hond issue, the interest on which was
to. be g11ara~1teed and paid by the Grand Lodge; and it was hoped in
this co11nect1011 that this bond issue would he floated through the banks
of our State, ancl among lodges and individuals who would feel dispo;,:.ed to look favorably upon it
an investment proposition.
Pursuant to this action communications were addressed to the
v.ariotts sttborcli11ate Lodges, and interviews were had with represcntatn·e bankers in different sections of the State, to the end that subscriptions might he sc>cured. The result, however, did not measure
up in any substantial degree to our expectations, less than $50.000 worth
of the bonds having been subscribed for. Owing to one cause or
another-the subordinate Lodges, either because they had alreadv in\'estecl all of their surplus funds, some of them in the Temple Assoor the proposition as an investment did not appeal to them,
or the moti\·es of sentiment did not actuate them to a sufficient degree, and the ~)anks, largely because of the fact that no sinking fund
had been provtdecl whereby the principal of the bonds would he taken
care of in due conrse, did not respond as readily as we had thought
they would to our invitations to participate in the bond issue. The
result has been, and in m.v judgment, the Board acted wisely in that
behalf, no attempt has been made to consummate the execution or issue
of the bonds and that fratme of the project has been held in abevance pending further action of this Grand Lodge.
From the report of the Temple Association, which \Vill be before
you, :111cl for which I be:;pcak your most careful, patient and considerate attention, it will he apparent that the outstanding indebtedness
on the building at the present time amounts to $303.989.00. It also
;;ppears that the annual interest charge upon this indebtedness amounts
to $16,314.94; that the maintenance charge, exclusive of interest,
amounts to $15,114A6; that the total rentals now obtainable from the
property amount to $24,172]1. resulting in a net annual loss to the
Association, as the property is at present conducted, of $7,256.69. The
tot:.tl investment in the property, exclusive of taxes, interest, insurance,
n~amtenanc.e and miscellaneons expenses, now amounts to $981,043.52.
1 he total mvestment of the Grand Lodge in stock of the Association
amounts lo $275,000.00.
Considering the fact that we han over fifty-five thousand Masons
in ~aliforni;'.· it was hardly to he supposed, of course, that an undcrtaklllg of tl11s character ,1nd rnagniimle could have been consummated
in :tlls<>l!!ll' :llld 1wrfce1 unanimity :111d cu11cord. Su111c have \'uiccd thC'
criticism that (oln b\'i;-;]J an expenditure nf the funds of 1\lasonn has
li\'r,· IHTll had,
So111L'. actuated hy a narrow, pro,·incial, section;;], in-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

excusable disposition, have felt unenthusiastic because of the fact that
the building was located in, and contributed solely to the architectural
glory of, the City of San Francisco. But these considerations can not
be permitted to weigh with us at this time. Paraphrasing the language
of a well known Masonic character, ''This is no time for caviling; what
shall we do with the building?'' It is here. It is nnpaid for. It has
bL·en erected under the eye and pursuant to the express declaration
and assei1t given by this Grand Lodge. It could not, in the very
nature of things, have been situated in each of the fifty-eight counti<:s
of onr State, and ha~! to be placed at some particular spot within the
houndarics of the jurisdiction. Therefore, my own deliberate judgment is, that it ill becomes us now to assert, either publicly or privately, that we are not responsible for its being here; that it adds
nothing to the glory, or interests, or advantage of Masonry as a whole,
and that we propose now to decline to meet the obligations which
have been incurred in its erection. \Ve are estopped to do other than
work out some plan which will maintain the name and honor of the
Fraternity as a \vhole and meet every requirement of the moral ohligation which' rests upon us.

In addition, $275,000.00 of the funds of this Grand Lodge are
invested in the project. W c can not at this time, in justice to those
for whom we arc Trustees of this money, permit such an accumulation
of onr assets to be dissipated through foreclosure proceedings or otherwise, becaus~ of an unwillingness on our part now to invest additional funds. \V c have not only our own good name to protect, but we
have also over a quarter of a million dollars of trust fonds for whose
loss or dissipation we would have to stand at the bar of ·Masonic
justice and render an exact accounting.
The report of the Masonic Temple Associatio11 shows that within
the space of a few years, less than ten at the outside. if this Grand
Lodge shall subscribe at least $25,000.00 annually towards the purchase
of stock in the Association, the indebtedness can he wiped out and
all of the stock put upon a dividend paying basis. If the Temple belongs to the 1\fasons of California, and typifies the industry. frugality,
progressiveness and prosperity of Masonry in California, as it surelv
does, then it should
paid for by the 1\lasons of California, and the
returns on the investment, if any there he financially, should belong
to the Masons of California. The more stock we hold in the Corporation, the larger our dividends when dividends do come, as they surely
will, and consequently the smaller the drain upon our subordinate
lodges in the way of a per capita tax.

be

My 1ldiherate cuudusio11 then is, after g1nng the matter long aml
prayerful consideration. that this Crand Lodge should now, at this
Annu;Jl Conmrn11icatio11, determine definitely upon a plan of procedure

GRAND LODG.E OF CALIFORNIA

320

321

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

by which o ur f at'tl1 ancl implied
·
promises
. I
which the existino· inclebt. I
. m.iy le made good,. and by
e
ec ncss mav 111 du , , . . . 1 ,
.
I therefore carnestlv recom111e11 I
'1'
c com se.' )e wiped ont.
r"
·
c anc urge the const l · t'
J
i' mancc Committee
of s
d f7 .
• c ct a ton iy the
'
· ome e 1111te method 1 f
·1
·
enable tis throug·h tlte 111 1·
f
. ( proccc ure wh.1ch will
'
,
.
ec ta o reo-ular 1'11 ·t II
b
. .
stock of tl
s a ment su scnpt1011s to
1e orporatlon, or throlloh some otl
I
.
1
- .
to attain the ultimate s·iti~f t' "" f,
ler P ~n, equal y dlicac1ou~.
.
' s ac ion o t 1le present mclebtedness.
In this connection it will
t b
.
that other ]\hsonic or'
.
. no I e anuss to keep in min.cl the fact
<.
gan1zat1011s Joth o-rand . d
l
1·
large
blocks
of s·t oc I·\. l1l
·
·
"' '
ov·:ning
.
.
t 11e
I1 . dll . su )Ore. mate,
.
. '
upon them, simihr to ti
f
. c1ve <111 obligat1on restmg
·
'
1c one con ront1110 us wit! ..
successful financin(T of tl11'
.
""
.'
l Hspect to the
s 0111 common 1110 11 umen
" t to
. .i'
r•
There
)11t t L. "' • •
reemasonry.
0
oug
ue <l 1easonablc dco-re
f
.. ·
bodies so that n.
f l
. "' e o co-opc1 ,1t1on among all the
o one o t wm will be compel! I t
out of proportion to it
. .
.
ec o assume a burden
s O\\ n llffestment or hcnm 1 ti
.
.
ments of its own indi\·icll'' I 11 .w •.
.
•
c. 1e Just require"1
i,,,,it1011 m the pren11scs.

c

·

"" '

°)

i\L\SONJC HOi\1£S.

To your Grand ::\[aster the
source of pri<le and
o~ie great refreshing inexhaustibk
·
111 connection w 1
'tJ1 tl
1
I\I asonry in California, is the two
1e wor <: of
homes maintained Ji,·
t I)
anc I at Lan
S. Gahricl · Rer)orts of tli e B>Oar cl of .fruste · · . ·us· a I ecoto
· f
I
m ormat1011 of their co11ditic)11,
. Ls, g1v111g < ctai eel
accomplishment-;, and
(Ioubtless be presented to you.
will
. On cverv
• o cT cts i on w I1e11 I have visited our homes I have f
residents therein comfortably situated well r 0 •·.
'.)t:ncl
monuments to th .
.
·
P ' Hlcd for, and hvuw
.
e put poses and usefulness f
. F ..
·
""
t1cularly have I hcen .
.
.I
.
o ou1
ic1tern1ty. Par1mp1 esse( with the chi!!·1
S
( en at ~an Gabriel.
\:FJ
T heir lives are yet before tl1 .
cm.
.
·
·
'v 1et11er thev ·ire t 1
grow mto manhood or womanhood f tt. 1
: . ' . o )C caused to
zenship in the St-ite ·ind fitt 1
I J e< to bec11 the burdens of citi' ' '
ec to iecomc the htl
·
I
I
a succeeclin()' O'enc1"1t1·011
·11 1
d
.·
'. 1e.rs am mot 1crs of
"" "'
'
• WI
c epen hru ,1 ·
I
tion bestowed upon the;n ·mcl ti
' ""e .> upon t le love and affec.
' '
lC manao·ement ·md k'll l' I
1.
t11rn111g their thouohts . 1 ... ., .
. ,,.,
,
s I c tsp aye( 111
"" . <tm dsp11 dt1011s mto sane and usefnl channel"
That our Board of Trnstec. ·
.
.,.
for the
the . ha . .
. s is entitled to our undying gratitude
those \Vho are obJ.~ct' \· ef so gelnerousl~ and unselfishly bestowed upon
'
s o our :iotmh· 1., ap ,
t
the Fraternitv who has
•
·.' ·· ' pc1ren to every member of
11.ic1 occasion to acc1tnint I .
'
If
.1
conditions
surroundinu
tl le t· WO l101llCS
\Vlt 1 the
.
,_,
'\t' ll1V' . 11mse
., . •
.
paid personal visits to hot!
f I 1 .. .
.. sngg( st1011, my wife
tcrs gin:n OYer to. tl , . l o t le wnies, and mn·stigate<l the q11ar1c \\omen at Dccoto ·111d t ti
1· .
roundinO' the oirJs at S
(" ] . ')
' '
o ll' COil\ lt1011S s11r.
""
""
'
an ,a Jrte and her repo 1·t t
.
o me was tilled
with expression.; ()f
. '
-. .
. ..
.
commem1atlon. of approv I . d
. .
lahfnrma possessed an imtitutio11'1·, F·
a, dll of g.ratttu<le that
I
i .. e
I ecmasonry, which was giv-

ing of its wealth and labors so nngrn<lgingly to the alleviation of the
distresses of old age on the one hand, and the protection and preparation of our dependent young on the other. During the year I have
frequently been called in counsel by the Board of Trustees, and the
greatest degree of congeniality and of co-operation has obtained be-· ·
tween ns at all times. Truly they, of all men, arc doing Cod's work
here on earth.
1NsPECTORS.

can not commend too highly to the Brethren of the Grand Lodge,
the loyalty aml efticiency of the ]nspectors of the several I\1asonic
Districts in this State. As
whole, and without any noteworthy cxat all. they arc prepared to perform acceptahly the functions
required of them, and they arc disposed at all times to give to the
Craft such of their time and effort as may be required in virtue of
their official statio11. Invariably they arc men of standing and influence; their own personalities are not infrequently of pronounced
advantage to the F'raternity; as a result, Lodges which take counsel
with their Inspectors from time to time, and govern themselves accordingly, arc thereby hcttcr cnahlcd to commend thcmseh'es to their
respective communities.
Agreeably to custom in that behalf, near the close of this last
Masonic year, I directed inquiries to the Inspectors of the State concerning matters affecting the welfare of the Craft. as observed by
them in their· several jurisdictions, and I am glad to state that replies
have been received from almost every one of the officers in question.
From these replies I find that almost without exception the Lodges
of the State are being blessed with a due measure of prosperity, and
that, in but very few instances, is the report made that no work has
been had during the past year. One or two, on the contrary, show
by the number of petitions received and degrees conferred that it is
not at all unlikely that they are disposed to believe they are growing
Masonically with the mere accretion of numbers. rather than because
of the addition of truly 1\fasonic material.
I made special inquiry with reference to the matter of benevolences.
I had been led to indulge in the opinion, as indicated in one of my
communications to the Lodges incorporated herein, that the matter of
Masonic relief and charity was not receiving the attention which it
deserved, considering the fact that it was the primal obligation resting
uppn the Fraternity. I am pleased to say, h<nvever, that from the
reports of the Inspectors it would seem as if my information in that
respect was at fault, and that in most of our Lodges a clue and becoming attention is
to the matter of :Masonic relief. Clad indeed
am I to be able to say that
to a mtmber of Lodges, where the exact
figures have been brought to my attention by the Inspectors, the scrip-

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tnral encomium, "\Veil done, thou good and faithful servant.'' would
seem to be peculiarly lit and appropriate.

procedure is hut a means to an end, urges that it would he beneficial
to make it optional for Lodges in this jurisdiction to make use of
twelve Fellowcrafts in the Third Degree. The claim in this behalf
is, that it serves in the larger Lodges to attract and hold the enthusiasm of a greater m1111ber of the members. because of their p:uticipation in the work of that degree. I personally witnessed the conferring
of the degree under such circumstances and was much pleased at the
time.

I was also led to inquire of the Inspectors as to the degree of
r<:spect. _n-hich .is accorded to
, as the institution is pnhlicly
l'Xcmplilled hy Its members in the vario11s comnmnities in whicl1 L()(lgcs
are chartered. In not a single instance was I advised by an Inspector
t_hat .\~asonr~- i11 his
for any reason, as an institution, had
tallen mto disrepute. If we may belie\·e the general opinion as tlms
rniced. tlw institution still stands the first and foremost of its kind
~ike some _Patriarchal monarch of the forest, its vigorous roots deepl;
~mbeddecl Ill ~he hearts and affections of our people, whence cometh
Its strength; its rugged branches spread as if in earnest supplication
unto Hean:n, -vvhence cometh its inspiration. Another Inspector, in
answer to the question abov-e mentioned, was led to suggest that no
Lodge is held in higher respect than the one ·which promptly disciplines
a member for unmasonic conduct Some Lodges, within my knowledge, that ar~ prolle to let a willful violator of our Masonic code of
cthics drop out, through the
going suspension-for-11011-paymentof-dues route, might \\·ell take heed of this suggestion and govern
them selves accordingly.

In response to my rn1uest for suggestions that might be helpful
to the fraternity as a whole, many valualile comments were made bv
some of the more ihoughtful Insµectors. One voiced a very acceptable, but to me absolutely unique suggestion (considering the source
from which it emanated), by complainin•g that in his District there
was "too much devotion to letter perfect work, in consequence of which
the officers were not able to
the members properly with the
fundamental ideas centering about the Fraternity, viz.: its moral, social.
and civic duties, so
to leave
and beneficent impressions of a
truly :!\la sonic character." Tf I had been inclined to preach a sermon
upon that very subject matter f would not have phrased it more force.folly than this Inspector has done in a single sentence.
.
Another a\·ers that it ,.,·ould result in much good to the Fraternity
m the long run. if a uni form system of blanks for the use of investig<'.ting committees could be prO\·ided whereon detailed information,
\nth respect to the character, antecedents, environment, and social and
rdigiotts relations of the petitioner might be indicated, so that all the
Brethren might he duly advised thereof. In other words, he contends that
the use of the word "favorable'' sometimes fails to convev to the members of the Lodge information of which they ought,. in justice to
themselves, to he in possessio11. There is food for thought in this
s11ggestion.
Another Inspector, who regards merely the snbstantial landmarks
oi the institution and
as do many of us, that mere form of

323

Another Inspector recommends that the Constitution be so amended
as to make it the duty of a Master to declare expelled a member of
his Lodge who has confessed to a commission of a felony in a Court
of Law. Summary punishment appeals to us at times and no doubt
there is considerable efficacy in its infliction. \Ve should, however,
be certain that punishment is due before we adjudge that it shall be
visited upon a given individual. There is as much reason, in the general nature of the case, why the question of the identity of an individual
charged with crime should be ascertained and determined, as the fact
of his having committed the crime itself. I would be fearful that such
a revolution of our method of procedure, even only to the extent specified, might in some instances >vork out an injustice. It might easily
be possible for a Master to he misinformed and to declare expelled
a man who was in truth and in fact not the individual who it was
claimed had confessed in a Court of Law to the commission of a
felony. I am rather impressed with the fact that certainty and surety
in the ad~1inistration of justice, and in the infliction of penalties,
are more to be desired than mere summariness, and that there is no
sufficient reason why an infraction of our Code like the one instanced
should not submit to the due course of procedure in the regular tribunals provided by the wisdom and experience of the fraternity.
Another Inspector recommends that some means should be provided
whereby the aged and incapacitated members of the fraternity who have
given perhaps a lifetime of service in its behalf, should be permittt>d
the right and opportunity of retaining their membership, in their old
age, without being subjected to the embarrassment on the one hand, of
applying for a remission of their dues, or to the injustice on the other
of being suspended because of the non-payment thereof. Specifically,
it was urged that a member who has reached the age of seventy, and
has been for more than 20 years in good standing in some one particular Lodge, if otherwi:-:e entitled to have his dues remitted, should
,be declared, by vote of the Lodge, a life member, and thus absolved from
future liability for dues, and still be entitled, in the event of entire
disability, or death, to the honors and benevolences attaching to good
standing in the fraternity. The argument against this, of course. is
that all men who claim the benefit of our rights and privileges should
be required, prima facic, to submit to the usual burdens and responsi-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGJ~ OF CALIFORNIA

liilitie;;, and th;1t. if re111is:--io11 of <lncs is proper, it ·will he granted when
asked for. The weakness of this argument, however, in my mind, lies
in the fad th<tt pride in many instances will serve to prevent a worthy
Brother, under the circumstances detailed above, from
for ~
remission of his dues. l f, however, some such general regulation as
l1as been suggested could be put in force, then with no show of shanll'
to himself and no Ins:~ of financial support to the Lodge, much grnhl
\Yotild be done and no harm snffered by any one.
c\propos of nothing in particular, one of my most diligent and

dtlcient ]nspectors ventures the suggestion that the great need in
?dasonry, and likewise the great need in citizenship generally,
more
This suggestion, though extremely general in its nature,
is most striki11g in its sonnd philosophy and general applicability. Most
cif ns, whether Masons or otherwise, give very little genuine thought
to conditions as they exist about us. If a few of us would really
ilzi11!~, many more of us \\'OUld be led to act. Some of us arc prone to
think vvc think, hnt it is so out of line with the ordinary course of
en'nts for a real thinker to he
that his appearance among
us is almost epochal in its nature. 1 am convinced that Masonrv
would bcc<1111e a much more cf!l.cicnt instrumentality of progress an~l
general hettcrmcnt in the world, if its great and growing membership
would occasinnally sit themselves down and bring to bear upon some
of the pressing problems of the hour the degree of mentality of which
they
really capable, and the spirit of real altruism with which
they ought to be imlrned, if they have given proper thought to the
f1111ctio11s and destiny of

real thuup)zt.

l have incorporated at some length these suggestions coming from

I nspcctors, some of which I have approved. and others felt constrained
to disagree with, simply because from my knowledge of this important
branch of our officiary, and from the close touch \vhich they retain
upon the great mass of our membership, ·r am led to believe that suggestions coming from them, not infrequently, represent growing sentimrnt among Master l\lasons generally, and that, as such, they should be
presented to this Cran<l Lodge, in order that, if deemed proper and
aeceptahk, they may he crystalfo:cd into Masonic law. The law of a
State represents that State's "collected will." The la\v of JVIasonry
ought W reflect the enduring sentiments and accepted conclusions of
its thoughtful membership.

Desiring and deeming it
proper to give special praise where
,;pecial praise is dne, it ctffords me pleasure to express my grateful
appreciation to Inspectors \V. A. Sherman of the 33rd District, J. E.
])yl' of the 23rd District. and L. C. Sawin of the 57th District, for the
particdarly careful, detailed and hclpfol reports transmitted hy them.

CONSOLTD.\TJO:l"S.

Proceedings tending to effectuate the consolidation of se,·cral of
Tn addition,
from the reports of your Inspectors, it is apparent to me that co11solidatio11s shonld be had among
number of other Lodges in the
jurisdiction, if the greatest efficiency is to be developed and some of
onr old and worthy Masons are to be retained upon the roll of onr
membership. I request that the Inspectors who have advised me of
consolidations which ought to lie effected comnrnnicatc their ,·iews
to the Grand Lecturer, who will see that the proper steps arc taken
;ind will advise as to the propriety of the action in the different instances.

our subordinate Lodges will be before you for action.

,,

ln this behalf I am emholdencfl to suggest that, in my judgment,
Section 91 of the Constitntion should be amended so as to provide
that a consolidation may go into effect when the proceedings relative
thereto shall ha \'e been appro\'ecl, either by the Grand Lodge, or, between Commtmications, by the Grand :\faster.
Early in January of this year. pursuant to a consolidation sought
to he consummated between two of our Lodges, all the preliminary
steps ha\·ing hccn taken. my apprm·al was sought in order that the cnnsoliclation might become cffrctivc at once. and the new growth anfl
bettered conditions which it was urged wonld ftow from the co11solidatio11. might become a reality. Becanse of the language of the Constitution which limits the apJHOYal of proceedings relati,·e to consolidation to the Grand Lodge. T frlt in clnty hound to withhold my
approval. Tn this l v.:as inclined to the belief that I was following a
trail blazed by the Jurisprudence Committee
this Grand Lodge in
1884, when, in outlining a course of procedure to be followed in a
matter of consolidation, that committee seemed to refrain from indicating that the Grand l\Iaster had any function to perform in the
premises at all. and that consolidation can not become effective until
approval hy the Grand Lodge, cwn though the date of its next .\mmal
Communication might be almost a year off. It will be true. of course.
that such an amendment to onr fttnclamental law will vest considerable
authority in your Grand Master, but he
plenary authority in
other respects at the present time. He may exercise hetween commnnications of the Grand Lodge all of the executive powers of the
Grand Lodge except that of granting charters. He may draw, ad
libitu111. upon the munificent treasury of this Grand Lodge, and yet I
tah· it that not within the memory of any man now a membcr of this
hody has this authority \·ested hy you in your Crand l\Taskrs been
alJt1sed. An indi\ iclnal who is not worthy
being invested hy you
with amplest authority i11 the interval between your co111111u11ications,
is not lit to be your Grand lVIaster, and I doubt not that

326

327

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that fact is taken into consideration by you, from time to time, in your
selection of those vvho arc called upon to perform the high ancl responsible functions of this most exalted fraternal office.

I hereby propose the ad.option of an amcnclmcnt to our Constitution to
be designated as Section 208a thereof, and to read as follows:

"N 0 judgment of a trial commission shall be set as.idc,
or new trial granted, for any error of any sort as to pleadmg,
procedure or introduction of evidence, unlcs.s. after an c;amination of the entire case, including the cv1clc11ce, the (,rand
Lodge shall be of the opinion that the error committed has
resulted in a niiscarriage of justice."

The Constitution provides in consiclerable cletail what shall he
done liy the Loclgcs involved, in orclcr that a consoliclation may be had.
I gather that if the proccdnre outlinccl is followccl, ancl it is the juclgmcnt of the Grand Loclge that the proposed consolidation is not improper, consiclering the general welfare of our institution, that the
approval of this Grand Lodge in any instance would not be withheld.
The same consiclerations which would appeal to the Grand Lodge in
withholding its approval, woulcl appeal to the Grand Master, ancl in
adclition I am firmly of the belief that instances might arise where
the clclay in consummation of the consolidation until the date of the
Communication of the Grand Lodge, would minimize to a considerable
clegrec the desirability and effectiveness of such action. If two Loclgcs
arc too weak to exist alone nc,w, or, if it would be better that they
shoulcl join their forces, by the same token they will be weaker and
therefore much more difficult to rehabilitate a year from now, and in
aclclition, perhaps will have suffered the loss of some of their members whose conti1111ecl presence and activities it ought to be the aim
(>f the Fraternity to retain.

l\L\SONIC

This amendment, it is obvious, is framed along the lines of the
amendment to our State Constitution recently adopted by the peo~lc
and which, so far as I am advised, has tended to work. out s~1bstant1al
justice. I commend it to you for your most careful cons1derat1on.

A matter of minor importance brought to my attention in connection with the form of accusation in Masonic trials might well receive
consideration.
Under the Constitution a member may be tried either by the Lodge
in which he holds membership or by the Lodge within whose jurisdiction he resicles. - Jn the "Form of Trials," no provision is made .for
the allegation of the fact as to whether or not the Mason ~ga111st
whom charges arc brought, is a member of the Lodge to wh.1ch the
charges arc presented or merely a resident within its jurisdiction. It
would seem to me, upon elementary principles of law, that one of these

TRIALS.

I think most members of the Grand Lodge will agree with me
that there is no subject matter brought before this body of a more
aggravating nature or tcnclency than that of the consideration hy way
of rc\·icw of the j udgmcnts of Masonic trial Commissions. Particularly is this so when from a non-conformity, more or less material in
character, with the requirements of the law, because of a belief in
the maintenance of the law at all hazards. it is sought to reverse or
annul a juclgment of a Commission that would seem to be in all substantial respects in accord with the dictates of common justice. This
was brought to our mine!:; most forcibly at the last Annual Communication when, in ohvious ancl utter clisrcgarcl of the rules and established practice of this Grancl Lodge for a generation, a judgment was
affirmed in spite of aclmittc<l error bccansc of the belief of the members of the Grancl Lodge, most worthily entertained by the way, that
the crime charged constituted a most flagrant violation of moral as
well as of -:\lasonic law, and that the judgment, whatever the errors
inhering in it, was a righteous one. In order, however, that we mav
lw saved the c111harrass111e11t hereafter of having to affirm judgment~.-;
in tltt· ll'l'tl1 of l'OII~tituti()nal l'L'(jllirellle11ts which would seem to clec
rnand a c1i11lrar_1 cntirSl' if the terms of the law are to he kept in mind,

facts should be stated in the accusation.
CLANl>ES'l'lNE

l\l.\SO:-."lff.

As Chairman of the Committee on the Grand Master's report at
the Annuaf Communication of 1908, I was led to say respecting clandestine Masonry, that "Ever a menace to the interests of our Craft,
and a stench in the nostrils of humanity generally, (it) is making an
insidious attempt to find a permanent lodgment in California. Our
efforts should be unremitting in its absolute effacement."
Time and aclclcd experience have hut served to confirm me in this
belief.
It passcth the comprehension of the mind schooled to the
ordinary claims of honesty and fair dealing, why mature men should
clcliberately, and with no hope of any lawful or honorable reward,
masqu~radc under a title which they know does not rightfully belong
to them, and the assertion of which upon their part, is but another
form of larceny.
S11 called cla11<1l'stinc 7'.l:tsonry govs lw1·01Hl an cl 1·11tirdy out si<I<'
of the rnootecl c1uestion of "regularity." lt is a deliberate and preconceived plan of imposition upon the gullibility of the public. Tt
holds itself out as a part, and entitled to a participation in all the

_______

.....

-------·~----_

_____,_:__

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

32Q

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

privileges, .of the world-wide institution of true J\.fasonry, and it has
1~0 more nght to such claim than has the thief to my purse which he
hlchcs. :rom my P?ckct. 'N c have no obj cctions to the clandestines
organtzmg
.
. and hanng Lodu-es
'"' ·, we do ohJ. ect t() tl1e1·1· s·t e<1-1·mg- our 11ame
and m1pos1ng 011 the public in their claims of right to fraternize with us'.
In at least two cities of this State they arc engaged in vcnclinff their
worthless degrees, and in one community, as a purported Jfaso 11 ic Loda,
and so advcrtisccl to the world. they actually rent a hall from n;~ ,;
who arc "reoul:ir"
·
f or sclf-cnnchment
·
'"' '"l\I·<1so11s. TI ie c1esire
is surclv
almost
an
unnatural
one,
when
members
of
0111·
0'"l1
Bl uc L oc I gcs.
. ·11 ,
·
.
·
"
\\ 1 _ tnus actl\·cly a:~ent to, 1f not connive at, such a willful dcfraudiwr
of the um-vary public.
'"'
1

The '.tcc~mpanying letter received hy me. ancl which, of course I
did not dlgntfy by a reply, I am led to insert herein, ipsissimis vcrbis
that a n~or~ .correct unclcrstanding may he hacl of the character ancl
class of mchvtduals who a1·e part1"es t o a co I ossa I attempt at imposition
111 the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania.
T11E l\IOST WORSHIPFUL GRA>JD LODGE
-OF.\:'\CTE:'\T, FREE A~D ~\CCEPTED l\f ASO:\S
-OF TT-lESTA TE OF PEXNSYLV~-\?\L-\.
Of/ice nf the
Cra11d Master.

(Here is printed the
Square and Compass
and the letter "C'')
Pa .. Septemk·r 21, 1915.

J:rnjamin F. Bkclsoc,
Cr;rnd ::\laster.
Dear Sir & Rro
_,
!wing a11xio11s as Crancl l\fastcr, of the Ancient
I• rec ;incl Accepted Masons of PennS\"lvania.
to ast;ihlish
· a 11
, . 111"c ni·
-> e ti 1rcn, 1n
. . . Fraturnial relation of '·tll. l\hso
·
J ttr1sc11ct1on
.
. of the United · Shtcs
' . 'a11cl o ti1e1· C ountncs
to
c;"t'.t l:!1~h A cle:irer relation and a true l\Iasonic Brotherly' ~md
C h,t1 lt<Llwl fcal111~, as the l\Iaso11ic principle of every Mason
shonlcl
heCountrcy
Sc t ·,1n d. O[Jemon
·
.J
•
~ e
I
· · to umte ::\Ien of ever''
all( rn11cil1atc true FRTENDSllTP, among those who
._ . ,,
.
mi~ht other-wise remain at a prcptual
di,.,tlllLl.' to tdcan· the distress, to he good and true is the
f<'.111HL_ll 1: 111 uf nTry v.nr.tuc the tmiversakty of l\Iasonry shoulcl
he llttl cc111stc11t .\:'.\IL, lll order to bring about the almve Set-

forth pri11siplcs with 011c Mason to another wile Tran·Iing in
Fore11 Countries so that wile, your l\lemhcrs tLt\·cling in Penna,
may know were to Fmcl a Friend and Brother.
and if ency of our l\Iembcrs shodd ho so fortunate to visit
your Countries or State we would he able that A Hanel of
Brotherly LOVE of Friendship would he extended. should
eney of your Brethren visit Pennsylvania, were our Lodge
is in existence with proper Vouchers from your l\Iasonic Body
I will asure you One ancl ail A hastcy CREET1:\C. hopeing
I may ha\·e a reply from you T lwg to remain yours Fraturnally,
Gran cl l\f aster of
Ancient Free and ~\cceptcd Masons of Penna.
(Herc imprinted Seal l\f. \V. Crand Master of ::\f asons in
Penn.)
COM MJTTF'.F'.

ON

l\l .\SONIC

F'.flL'C\TlO"'.

As indicated in my letter to the LodgTs, T ha\·e hecn impressed
with the feeling that much good wol'ld result to the Fratcrnit\·, if morl·
effective means were taken to instill in the mincls of its members, olcl
as well as new, more of its history and philosophy.
The books are fillccl with the literature of :'.\f asonry, most of \vhich
is unava.ilable to the average work-a-clay member of the Craft. To
put this into a form obtainable by the members of the Fraternity at
large, would increase, net only knowledge of, hnt interest in, and
enthusiasm for, the Fraternity. A great work has l)Ccn initiated in
Iowa in this respect, and I was hopeful that we might derive some
advantage here in California from following in her footste[JS. To that
end I have appointed a committee, to lie known as the Committee on
Masonic Education, ancl have asked them to re[Jort some plan of
procedure which might he :rnthorizccl, ancl perhaps encouraged by this
Grand Lodge, whereby more widely diffused knowlcclge of things
Masonic could he fostered in our Lodges.
The committee consists of Brothers Irving J. :Mitchell, of Los
Angeles, Chairman, and Alfred W. Bush, of Coronado, and the Grand
Secretary. They will render a report at this Annual Cornrnunication.
and for it, I would ask your very careful consideration.
LF'.'rTF'.RS TO SUflORDlN.\'rE LODGES .

Merely that this report may present a somewhat complete recital
of my important of licial acts during the year, I include herewith copies
of two communications sent out by me during the course of the year
to the different suliordinatc Lodges under our jurisdictinn.

330

PROCEEJDINGS OF THrn

331

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CRAKD LODCE. P. & A l\T., OF CALIFORKL\.
January 1, 1915.
To the Subord;inate Lodges, Free and Accepted Masons,
Grand Jurisdiction of California.
BRETHREN: My attention has been called to the fact that the work
of the i\fasonic Employment Bureaus of our State is to a certain
extent hampered, in that insuf~cient attention is given to the matter
of seeming positions, or at least in notifying the Bureaus of possible
openings, in the way of emplovment for worthv and deservitw Brethren
who are in need, not of charity, b~t of work."'
It is obvious to every thinking individual, that the best service
the Fraternity can extend to a worthy Brother :\fason in distress.
consists in practical relief, the securing for such Brother an opportunity to help and better himself; the providing for him of labor and
employment, rather than of money or other purely charitable assistance.
It must be true that, from time to time, among the many different
Lodges in the State, opportunities for employment present themselves,
and it must also be true that, in the event of such an opening, a word·
from a member of such Lodge or from the Master, to the nearest
1\1asonic Employment Bureau would probably result in the filling of
such position by a worthy Mason, and, what is of greater moment and
more importance considering our sworn obligation one to the other,
it would result in the relief of some worthy Brother, eager for work.
and competent to perform the duty required of him. In other words,
around the doors of our :Masonic Bureaus are many Masons who desire, not charity. hut work; known to the fifty-odd thousand of our
brethren, from time to time, arc positions which could be filled bv
these deserving Brethren in distress; our charitable work is onlv hal-f
done if these men and these positions arc not brought togethe-r.
Let each one of us make the effort to put in practice out of the
Lodge those beneficent truths we learn in it, by making a special
effort to keep the Masonic Bureaus advised, from time to time, of
any opportunity for employment in our respective localities, in order
that these opportunitil's may be responded to hy deserving Brethren,
and that the work of the Bureaus may thereby be made more efficient.
I make this appeal with the sincere request that it he considered
carefully and acted upon in the same spirit in which it is sent out,
in order that our work here in the State may assume a more practical and substantial aspect, and that we may be the better enabled
to justify ourselves, ~s wdl as our espousal of the tenets of Urothcrlv
Love. Relief and Truth.
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
(Signed)
BENJAl\IIN F'. BLEDSOE.
Grand Master.

GIL\ND LODGE, F. & A. M., OF CALIFORNIA.

July 21, 1915.
To the Alastcrs, TVardc11s and Brethren,
Subordinate Lodges, F. & A. M.:
An unusual amount of conge:stion in the business of the United
States Court here in Los Angeles. aggravated hy the trial of a single
case which has run continuously from about the middle of 1\fay, and
which will probably last for several weeks longer, has made it impossible for your Grand Master to make some official visits he had
planned for this month. l am now hopeful, however, that by using
what may he left of my regular vacation I may he able later to make
some of the visiJs I had in mind.
In this connection I sincerely trust the Fraternity will bear with
me in the' realization that my official duties in my court, because of
the congestion referred to, have borne heavily upon me; in consequence I have felt that I could not, in good conscience, even for the
otherwise laudable purpose of paying Masonic visitations-a ceremony
full of enjoyment for me-neglect or permit to go unperformed the
responsible labors devolving upon my present position.
I recentlv did take an adjournment of my court long enough to
go to San Francisco to participate in the proceedings of "Masonic
Day" at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition. While there I
had the opportunity of observing the great pleasure the larger children
of our home, about forty in number, were deriving from their visit
to the Exposition. Truly they were having the time of their young lives,
and it ought to be a source of real and genuine satisfaction to our
Fraternity that its helpless but deserving wards were thus permitted
this extradrdinary diversion and this great intellectual and educational treat.

This trip of our children from San Gabriel to San Francisco and
return, including a stay of 10 days at the Fair, was made possible because of the initiative and generosity of the Brethren of the following
Lodges from the Bay District, viz. :
Durant No. 268, McKinley No. 347, Berkeley No. 363, Bay View
No. 401, Charter Rock No. 410. Alpha No. 431, Live Oak No. 61,
Eden No. 113, Alameda No. 167, Oak Grove No. 215, Alcatraz No.
244, Apollo No. 396, Y erba Buena No. 403, Standard No. 440, Oakland
No. 188, Mosaic No. 218, Brooklyn No. 225, Eucalyptus No. 243,
Alisal No. 321, Fruitvale No. 336, Sequoia No. 349, Occidental No. 22.
Golden Gate No. 30, Crockett No. 139, Oriental No. 144, 1\fission No.
169, San Francisco No. 360, California No. 1, Doric No. 216, Ric11mond No. 375, Parnassus No. 388, Park No. 449, Bethlehem U. D.,
Fidelity No. 120, Pacific No. 136, Starr King No. 344, Presidio No.

332

PROCEEDINGS QI<"' THE

354, ~\mity No. 370. Jewel No. 375, 1\Iouut l\Ioriah Xo. 44. Excelsior
No. 166, So. San Francisco Xo. 212, I\..ing Solomon's No. 260, Balder
?\o. 393. Fairmount Ko. 435. Petaluma No. 180, l\Iarin No. 191, l\1ill
Valley No. 356. Redwood City I\'o. 168, l\Iountain View No. 194, San
l\f ateo
226. Pain Alto :'.'\' o. 346, Francis Drake No. 376, Burlingame
No. 400, La Parfaite Union No. 17. Herman No. 127, Speranza Jtaliana No. 219, Crocker U. D.
The members of these Lodges who tlm,; \villingly and freely gave
pf their personal fonds that our children might be made happier and
he given this extraordinary opportunity, arc entitled to and are receiving the sincere and heartfelt thanks of all ).fasom thronghont the
jurisdiction.
The awfulmss of this horrible war continues unabated. Every new
report from the various "fronts'' of this gigantic struggle levie::: new
t rilrntc on onr ;;;ympathy and our compassion. The wantonness of
lnmian sacril'ice-a challenge to onr belief in ot1r boasted civilizationstaggers us, n·c11 as the extent of human suffering stands without
parallel in the whole domain of onr knowledge and recollection.
To aid in the partial alleviation of this situation, request has been
rna<lc of your Crancl l\f aster hy Lodges in our State and hy the l\fasonic
Vvar Relief Association of the United States of America, for contributions to be for\\'ardcd, through proper channels, to our brethren
across the sea. To these reqnests I have felt constrained to turn a deaf
ear; not because of any want of sympathy t 1 pon my own part for the
unfortunate denizens of the war zones, hut because of the fact that
T felt that we could not, in view of the cosmopolitan character of our
membership in California, extend assistance to the people of any one
nation, no matter how much their plight might appeal to some of us,
and, in ;1dclition, r have felt that to extend or make proffers
aid
at this time. to all warring nations generally, would be but to provide,
mclircctly. fresh sinews of war for those nations and for those of their
citizens engaged in lmman slaughter. ln other words. the net result
r1f any assistance proceeding from ns at this time would he merely
in aid of the prolongation of the war. In consequence 1 haYe refused
to make use of any of the funds either of the Grand Lodge or of
s11hordi11ate Lodges for such purposes.
Thl· time will come. i1owever, and my prayer is that it may come
soon, when pc;1ce will once more resume her wonted sway; then the
period of rehabilitation will begin, then the cry coming out of the
wil(krncss of distress will make tmrcstr;dncd :<ppeal to the most
lwnnoknt tendencies of our nature, then I shall expect the l\fasons
of California, individually as \\'ell
collcctin~ly, to tender out of their
resources snch of their funds as may be needed, both in this country

!.

and abroad, to relieve the ,;11ff cri11g arnl succor tltc distres;-; following
in the wake pf the almost world-wide war now !icing waged.
There is among the Brethren a prnnounccd cradng as well as
necessity for additional iuformation and education along· the lines of
the true spirit, purpose. philosophy an<l destiny of J\lasonry. The
commenclahlc tendency is to give less of controlling concern to the
esoteric featttrcs of the Fraternity and more to its cxotcric side. J\fasons
as well
the profanes arc l;ccoming more apprcciatin' of the fact
that the. real genim of the fnstitntion lies not in its ohligations, lectures, floor work or mere mode of
hut in it:; broader conception-its relation to human lifr, its
for true seffice. its de,·elopment of the social and f n1ternal clement in man's make-ttp. This
tendency is made evident in the suggestions and requests coming to
the Grand Master's office, from time to time, for the serYices of those
who, skilled in l\f asonic lore. traditions and symbolism, may interest
and instruct the brethren through the medium of articles, lectures and
the like.
Tn this behalf T have felt extremdy chary ahnut rccommcrnling
or placing the seal of my apprO\·al on e\·cry amhitious l\f asonic Lecturer who feels the "call'' to go forth and instruct or entertain the
Fraternity. Xot infrequently such "call" is horn of a desire for sdfenrichment linancially, and, perhaps uot mmatnrally. many good -:\Tasons
arc prone.to question the propriety
a l\Tasonic "l\kssage" that must
11cecls be preceded by the assumption of a tiuaucial obligation. On the
other hand, of course, other considerations justifying such procedure,
the paying of a substantial snm to a lecturer in
for the
time, effort and ability by him spent onght not to he the suhjcct either
of criticism or of complaint.
The subject matter of Masonic Lectures, however, is a matter
ment111g genuine concern. ''::\Iasonic Symholism," a frequent subject,
as well as source of inspiration. because of its illimitable bounds ancl
possibilities has been in some instances overworked. In the same
strain much so-called "Masonic History," as the same
dilated upon
by lecturers. is notiling more or less than "::\Iasonic rlysteria.'' In this
connection l am reminded of the timeliness of an article in a recent
~\iasonic puhlication on this subject. "A Masonic Hysteric" was there
defined "as a man with a wild
plus a symbol. The beauty
about a symbol is its flexibility; you can set'" more things in it and
through it than were ever dreamed of by mortal man, and no man can
say you nay. lt is said that a Masonic hysteric one day saw some
rabbit tracks in the snow and he immediately began to demon:::tratc
the fact that the rabbit had a working knowledge
the 011111iscie11Cl'.
Omnipresence and Onmipotcnce of Deity, bcnwsc the lracl~s "<L'l'rc triangwlar in outline.''

335

PROCEJ!JDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Such conclusions, of course, are of an extreme nature, but they
illustrate a well known tendency that is valuable more for its display
of mental agility than for its capacity to entertain or inform.

of the time and place duly appointed for their official and ritualistic
promulgation. The course of conduct described and referred to hereinabove meets with my earnest protest and deprecation.

Realizing the demand for "further light in Masonry," I have determined to appoint a Committee on "Masonic Education," and I am
ooing to ask this Committee to formulate such plans for Masonic re~carch and study as will seem to them meet and appropriate. They can
suggest, if they will, Masonic Lectures and Lecturers of real value,
and can doubtless also suggest means and methods whereby the Lodges
generally may become more proficient in the knowledge of the history and destiny of our common institution. I will ask them to render
a report, together with their recommendations to the next Annual
Communication.

I have just directed the Inspectors of this jurisdiction to ascertain and advise me, in their reports upon their several Lodges, as to
the Masonic Charities of our Masonic bodies; are our Lodges maintained merely for the purpose of meeting, conferring degrees, producing Past Masters and displaying the Square and Compass upon
coat lapels and watch chains? Or do they, in addition, recognize and
ever bear in mind that the paramount and controlling and ever-present
obligation resting upon the fraternity has to do with its benevolcnccsassistance to those in distress-service toward our fellowmen?

It was recently brought to my attention by members of a certain
Lodge who had been invited to pay a fraternal visit to another Lodge
in this jurisdiction and assist in the conferring of the Third Degree
therein, that during the progress of the work members of the Lodge
which was the host of th('. occasion, in considerable numbers, remained
out in the social room of the Lodge immediately adjacent to the ante
room, engaged in playing cards.

I am a great believer, of course, in the promotion of the social
features of our Order; it may be an impossibility even to hope to
make a success of our fraternal and benevolent features unless we
at the same time keep in mind, and do that which will tend to promote,
the social fcatnres. One way, of course, of contributing to these social
features is by means of games purely social in their nature and made
use of merely as a diversion. Of these the indulgence in card games,
under the limitations just referred to, may be regarded as not improper. However, it is to my mind highly improper that such card
o-ames should be conducted in the immediate vicinity of the Lodge
;oom during the time of the actual session of a Lodge. If members
must engage in card playing at that particular time they should do it
away from the Lodge room. And I conceive it to be the duty of the
}\.faster of a Lodge, and that he is derelict if he docs not perform it.
to require all members to cease card playing in the social rooms of
the Lodge during the whole of the time that the Lodge may be 111
session.
Tf an initiate observes that some portion of the Lodge membership
takes no more interest in the conferring of the degree upon him than
to make it the occasion and opportunity to beguile the time with a
card game, he will form at once a very unfavorable opinion of our
Order, and an equally unfavorable opinion of men who care no more
for the high principles we teach than to show such open disregard

Frankly, in some Lodges I have visited I have not heard the subject of Masonic Charities mentioned. This circumstance in itself is
inconclusive because there may have been no occasion to mention them
at the precise time of my visit. I do believe, however, that some of
cur Masonic Lodges are, thoughtlessly, paying too little attention to
the subject of Benevolence and that as a matter of fact too little of
our Masonic money is really expended for "relief."
"Brotherly Love" and "Truth" are not the only tenets of Free
Masonry. "Relief" also is included therein, and it was intended that
this tenet should have a practical as well as a ritualistic signification.
The j ing·le of a dollar is the sweetest sound on earth-the most
exquisite music known to man-when it is caused by the expenditure
of money in the alleviation of real distress. Of course "service" in
the cause of humanity does not always imply the use or payment of
mere money. There are many things secured through the operations
of Masonry that money could never buy, no matter how great its
purchasing power might be. This sort of service Masonry is constantly engaged in; the essentially practical means of rendering good to
our fellows, however-the dispensing of tangible, measurable, substantial "relief"-ought to form a regular part of our Masonic routine.
The need is noticeable on every side; we are unmindful of our teachings and unappreciative of our own blessings if we do not heed the
call.
Fra tcrnally and sincerely yours,
(Signed)

BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,
Grand Master.

SAN F'RANCJSCO AND LOS ANGELES.
Perhaps it might have been more modest had I waited for someone
else, coming from another section of the State, to make mention of
the next recommendation I have in mind; but being impressed with the

l'llOCKl~DlNG~

OF TIH:
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

great dc:-;irahility uf the change 1 han' to :-;uggest. I am going to
propose it myself, not because l C()!11e from Los Angeles, hut in spite
of the fact.
It is my deliberate judgme11t that the best interests of the Craft
as a whole will be subserved by a regular, even though somewhat infrequent, holding of Annual Communications of this Crane! Lodge in
the City of Los Angeles.
This has come to me, not, of course, as you well know, because
of any criticism of, or want of liking for, our city of San Franci:-;co,
~he permanent home of the Grand Lodge. Jt comes because of a belief that the State is so large that we will :ill he enahlccl to get better
:1cq11ainted, if you will come dm\11 for a visit with us occasionally, in
return for our more frequent visits to you. We \Vant to play the part
oi ho:-;t once in a while, onrsclvc~. The members of the Grand Lodge
living in and about the Bay Cities. io whom our Annual Communications
arc a matter approaching mere home concern, would, I am sure.
derive new pleasure from Grand Lodge week if it was given to them
to visit with their Fraters in the southern part of our State, in so doing.
Tn addition, the children's home, now maintained at San Gabriel and
soon to be remm·ed a few miles away to Covina, constitutes a vitally
important clement in the work of J\Iasonry, as I ha,·e already endeavored to indicate. There i'i need for the members of the Gram!
Lodgt', the rank and file, to ,·isit that Home, as there is need for their
presence, from time to time, at Decoto.
Personally, 1 would not favor the Grand Lodge meeting in Los
J\ngeks e\·ery other year. The drain upon our exchequer would he
too great. \!Ve could afford to meet there. say, once every three years;
T think we cannot afford to meet there less often. In consonance with
tlie feelings of the en~ire membership of our Order in the South, I
therefore propose <incl hel't'by recommend that Section 11 of the Constitution be amended to the following intent: Strike out the qualifying
clause added in 1911 and insert in lieu thereof the following:
"Provided, however, that, commencing with the year 5916,
A. L .. ancl every third year thereafter, the Annual Communications shall lw held in the City of Los Angeles."

337

I was so deeply impressed with the presentation, that I requested
the Brethren. even though 1 knew it would be a considerable in·
com·enience to themselves, to enact it during Grand Lodge week, ~nd
they graciously consented and it will he presented on Thursday evcn111g
at the Scottish Rik Temple.
It ~vill he worth your while to witness this excellent production.
The Third De~"ree will have a new meaning fo,· you, and, in addition,
the dramatic a;t displayed will he most helpful and suggestive to you in
your own renderings of this immortal tragedy. I urge your presence
on the occasion.
;\PPRECl,\'flO=".

I must add my wore! of thanks to those of the Brethren who ha,·e
heen so helpful to me during the year. Their advice, encouragement, cooperation and loyalty, have lightened my burdens m_ost measurably.~ To
the Grauel Lodge officers in particnbr, am I especially grateful. l:<,ach
~;nd all, they have been most willing to assume functions tha: prope_rly
devolved on me, and which, but for their generous and unsclhsh assistance, would, perforce. have gone unperformed.

CONCLUSION.

St:ch ·mv Brethren, is my :iccount of my stewardship. I trust that
its prcse:1tat.ion has not wearied you, and that it will he cons~dered
hy you in the spirit of charity vvhich should ever actuate us 111 the
rendition of our judgments upon those about us. In all that I have
done, I sougbt to do the thing which I thought you, in the exercise
of vour hcst judgment, would have wished me to do. 1 ask yuur
iml:ilgencc, c\-en as 1 cran' your good will.
BENJAl\ITN F. BLEDSOE,
Grand l\Iastcr.

The Deputy Crancl ::\faster appointed the following·
Committee upon the Grand ~raster's Address: ()tto L.
Sues, \\'illiam R. Flint. Elmer H. ~IcGowen.

THE LEGEND Of' 'I'HE 'l'EMPLE.

011 a recent visit to this city, I witnessed the presentation by the
Brethren of t lie San Francisco Bodies No. 1. A. & A. S. R., of a drama
adapted from our Third Degree hy Brother Jesse l\f. vVhited, Senior
\Varden of Calif11rnia L()(lgc Ko. 1. and cntitll'<l ''The Legend of the
Temple."

On motion of Past Grand J\Jaster Henderson, five thousand copies of the Grand Master's Address were ordered
to be printed and distributed to the Loclg-es of the J urisdicti on.
Past Crand ~faster James B. Stevens called attention
to the absence, for the first time in many years, of the

I

338

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

venerable George Clement Perkins, Grand Master in 187 4
-forty-one years ago-and who is now at his home in
Oakland suffering from the infirmities of age, and moved
that the Grand Secretary convey to the distinguished
brother the greetings and regrets of this Grand Lodge.
\Vhich motion was carried by unaniri1ons vote.
The Grand Secretary thereupon sent to Brother Perkins
the following message:
The Crand Lodge with rt.:'gret notes your absence at this Sixty!'ixth Annual Comnnrnication, and with fervent hearts your brethren
extend greetings and a prayer that many useful days may yet he
vouchsafed to you.

Subsequently the following response was received:

339

Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 12, 1915.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the
Grand l\Iaster presiding.
The Grand l\faster appointed the following Committee
on Charters: J. Claude Perry, Denman S. \Vagstaff, \Villiam \V. Allen, Joseph H. \Vilson, Sydney D. Force.

GR:\.'\ D TREASURER'S REPORT.
'The Grand Treasurer presented his annual report, as
follows:

I ;nn deeply touched for the kind expression of sympathy and
fraternal greeting. It is a source of great regret to me that I am
deprived hy illness of the pleasure of meeting with you during the
i:rescnt comnmnication. The fraternity has been instrumental in doing
much good for the individual and the people of our country, and it
will continue for all time a benediction to 1n1111!1.111tv

Your Gran<l Treasurer herewith submits his account of the receipts
and expenditures of the Grand Lodge for the year ending July 31, 1915:

Thanking you again most heartily for your kind remembrances,
I am.
Fraternally yours,
GEORGE C. PE1n::rns.

GEKERAL FUK D.

\\' illiam Abraham Davies. Crancl ).faster in 1867, appeared and was received with the honors due to him.

To the Af. ·. TV.'. Grand Lodge of California:

The Grand ......

A n ,• . , , , " ,

t'n accoullf '<.~·ith the Gra11d Lodge for the Fiscal
Y car Ending; Jul3• 31, 1915.

RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand as per last annual report, July 31, 1914 ........ $11.807.98
Re.ceived interest on bank

1.499.05

Received from Grand Secretary .... --················ ............. 64,149.35

Past Grand 1\laster Henderson introduced two resolutions and Brother Fred Doerr, for the Lodges of San Jose
.and vicinity, introduced a resolution, all touching upon
certain matters relating to a 11011-:\'fasonic organization:
and the Grand 1\Jaster announced that inasmuch as the
subject matter vvas of particular importance, he would later
appoint a special committee to consider it.
The (;rand Lodge was then called off nntil 2 :,10 o'clock
1 his afternoon.

Received interest on bonds as fo!Iows :
Blue Lakes Water Co ..........................................$420.00
California Gas & Electric Co ............................. 450.00
S. P. Railroad ...................................................... 240.00
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph ........................ 400.00
Los Angeles Cas & Electric Co ......................... 100.00-1,610.00
Total receipts for year ....................................................... .

67,258.40

Total receipts, inclL'ding balance on hand last annual report ......................................................................... .

$79,066.38

340

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

<tRAND LODGE OF CALlFORN1A

341

EXPENDI'l'URES.

Paid as per ·warrants 1 to 189---------·····-···-·-····-······---···-···-·····-·-······---$34,891.68

MASON IC HG:rvlES BUILDING FUND.
RECEIPTS.

Balance 011 hand July 31. 1915 (Union Trust Co.) ....................$44,174.69
:lsscts July 31, 1915.

Balance on hand (Cnion Trust Co.) ... --------------------------------------------$ 44.174.69
Se\'en 6fi{ Blue Lake Water Co. bonds @ $110 ............$7,700.00
Six 47' S. P. Railroad bonds @ $93 ...... -------------------------- 5,580.00
Kine 5'/r Cal. Gas & Electric bonds @ $95 .................... 8,550.00
Eight 5r;,; Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. bonds @ $93 ........ 8,000.00
Two 5% Los Angeles Gas & Electric bonds @ $93 .. 1,860.00-31.690.()ll
27,500 shares l\Iasonic Temple A.ssociation @ $10........

Balance on hand July 31, 1914............................................................ $ 17,445.63
Received from per capita tax for year 1914..............$26,589.50
Received interest on bank deposits___________________ ______
684.53
Total receipts for year --------------------------------------------

27,274.03

Total receipts, including balance on hand July 31. 1914............ $ 44,719.66
EXPENDITURES.

275.000.00

Warrants paid --------------------------------·--------------------------------------------- ---------$ 28,087.86

Total assets ·--------------------------------------------------------------------···----·-·····-$350,864.f,9
The Grand Treasurer reports that since closing. his books
for the past fiscal year he has received from the Grand
Secretary -·--···---·-··-·····--------······-----------------------------------------····-- -----------$ 59,568.0'J

Balance on hand July 31, 1915 ................................................ $ 16,631.80

l\IASO~IC HOMES GENERAL FUND TO JULY 31, 1915.
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hancl as per last report, July 31, 1914....$ 30,777.44
Less balance Building Fund included in above........ 17,445.63 ·

Total ha lance --------------·--··-------------------------------------------------------------$ 22, 155.81
Bank balances :
Humboldt Savings Bank ------------------------------------------$ 5,526.40
Los Angeles Bank & Trust Co _________________________________ 15,707.36
Savings Union Bank & Trust Co ...... __________________ _ 922.05
Total ------·-·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------$22, 155.81

Balance General Fund -------------------------------------------·
$13,331.81
Received from per capita tax for year 1914 ____________ $53,179.00

The Grand Treasurer also reports that since the commencement
of the pre.sent fiscal year he has received from the Grand Secretary
the followmg amounts, August 1st to September 18, 1915:

Recei,·ecl from Secretary Masonic Homes................ 12,311.65
1,369.06
Received interest on hank deposits______________________________

Home Maintenance Fund ------------------------------------------------$48,317.00
Hoine Building Fund ______ --------------------------- _____________________ 24,158.50

Total receipts for year.. .... --------------------------------------

66,859.71

Total receipts, including balance on hand July 31, 1914............ $ 80,191.52
EXPENDITURES.

Paid Endowment Fund -----------·------------------------------ ......... $ 1,255.37
Paicl Trustees ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 73,412.14
Total expenditures

74,667.51

Balance 011 hand July 31, 1915 ........................... -------------------------$

5,524.01

Total --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------$ 72,475.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~L\SO~ LC HmLES ENDOWME~T FUND TO JULY 31, 1915.
RECEIP'I'S.

I:a lance on hand July 31, 1914.... --------------------------------------------------------$
Recei\·ecl interest 011 hank deposits .... --------------------------------$ 13,78
Recei\·ecl from \'arious sources _________ ------------------------------ 1.327.12
Rccci\·ecl from bonds redeemed ---------------------------------------- 1,000.00
1 nterest on honcls :
Cih of Santa Harhara ___________________________________ .$935.45
Pa~itic Tel. & Tel. Co _____________________________________ 250.00

981.00

011

\Ve ha\·e now 375 Lodges, and 55.341 memhcrs, a gain in ten years
of 76 Lodges and 23.780 members. At the close of the last Annual
Communication there were 367 chartered Lodges 011 the roll of Grand
Lodge. Since then, hy order of the Grand l\faster, clispensat1ons to
form eight new Lodges ha\T bce11 issued, as follows:

hand last reporL--------------$ 5,170.08

EX l'ENllJ TURES.

I 'aid f"r City of Richmond Donds. -------------------------------------------------· $ 3,026.38
l\abncc 011 hancl July 31, 1915 (Humhnlclt Sav. Bk) ________ $ 2,143.70

_isst'fs Jluso11ic 1-Iclllc Endo·wmc11t F1111d:
I \alctnCl' 011 hancl _____________
--------------------------- --------------------------------- $ 2, 143.70
21 4Y~'/, City of Santa Harhara bomb((~ $537.50 ........ $11.287.50
() 4/~'. 1, City of Santa Barbara bonds (ji $1.000.00____ 9,000.00
.z 4;~';; City of S;lll Diego bonds ((J $975.00____________ 1.950.00
:i 5'/r Pacilic Tel. & Tel. Co. bonds (rj, $1,000.00________
5,000.00
.z 5'11, Cit\- ancl County of S. f_ honcls <(! $1,000.00____ 2.000.00
5 5'1 ; Co~lilh- of Orange honcls ((1' $1.000.00____
5,000.00
:i 5 /, City :if Richmond bonds (r/ $1.000.00____________
5,000.00
- - - - 39,237.50
Prl·miums p:1id as per last report__ ________________ - -------$ 434.84
l 'rcmiums paid on bonds purchased since last
11.81
report ---------------------------------------------------------------------446.65
Tut a I a sscts July 31, 1915 ...... ----------------------------------------------------------$ 41,827 .85
WM.

P. FILMER,

Grand Treasurer.

Re icrrrd t<J the Committee on Finance.

w:. Cra11d Lodge of California:

Herewith my annual report, exhibiting all transactions of this
office required hy the Constitution. ancl such other matters as may
be of interest to Grand Lodge:

4,189.08

Total receipts. including balance

'fhe Grand Secretary presented his annual report, as
follows:
To the Af.".

Cit\· of San l )iego ---------------------- --- ----------------- 87.73
Cit;- and County of San Francisco ____________ 100.00
City oi Richmond ____
_______ -----------225.00
County of Orange __________________
------------------ 250.00-1,848.18
Total receipts

GRAND SECH.ETARY'S REPORT.

December 25, 1914-Bethlehem Lodge, at San Francisco. John
Liddle l\IcNah, l\fast0r; Charles Kean Harper, Senior Warden;
Adolphus Ehrhardt Graupner, Junior \Varden; and Clarence Frank
Bovee, Clyde N orrnan White, Haves Pierce Speakman, Charles \Villiam
Green, William Wilford Healey. Robert Henry Gay, John Leon Thorpe,
Russell Turner Ainsworth, Charles Lewis Smith, Matthew Watson
Backus, Heman Grey Squier, Harry Henry Velkno, Frederick Augustus King, \Villiam Frederic Biehl. Carl Sawvcll, Frank "B.'' Wooclhouse, George Elwood Wenzel, Charles Edward Peirce, Clarence
Edward Baen. Freel Duncan Bullock, Eugene Squier.
February 22, 1915-Crocker Lodge, at Daly City, San l\Iateo county. Richard Frederic Chilcott, l\Taster; Andrew l\Tc~eill McKeown,
Senior Warden; Thomas l\fadgwick, Junior Warden; and Harry Renowden Painton, George Edward Archer, George Watson, John Hartley Roberts, Angus Campbell, John Robertson, Alexander Campbell,
Ezra Francis Bisl,lop, -William Valentine l\fcLean, George Richard
Hutchinson, Jonathan J entleman Coakley, William Rossiter Hannon,
James Amos Adams.
March 24, 1915-Riverbank Lodge, at Riverbank, Stanislaus county. John Brockinton Pressley, l\laster; James Albert Brackett, Senior
Warden; Charles Clinton Beals, Junior Warden; and Olof Edwin
Johnson, John Joseph Connelly, Jesse Edwin Williams, William Ora
Post, Charles Henry Gillis, Wilferd vVegs Walker, George Seymour
Daniels, DeSoto Humboldt Grant, Erroll Huber McHugh Francis
William Hansen, Edward Monroe Sa11jule, Robert Van Vli~t Bromley, Luther Richard Hansen, John Joseph Hupfcr, William "E."
Martin, Joseph Tandrow, Freel \Vinfield Scheela.
April 21, 1915-Golclen \Vest Lodge, at San Francisco. James
Daniel McAlpin, Master; George Robert Hroekma11, Senior vVarckn;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Adolph Louis ~William Zillmer, Junior \Vankn; and l\Ierton Moo<ly
Hall, Leroy Martin Allum, Elmer l\Iusin ll undlcy, Henry \Varel Beach,
\Villiam Alfred Anderson Naylor, John Alhert Russell, George Edward
Chapin, Lewis Herman Colen, \Valter Sherman Coughlan, \Villiam
Henry Reid, Ralph Jones, l<'ra11k Valentine Da\'is, Alfred Bernard
Clark "'.'d arcns \Vhite Frederick, Thomas l rwin, Earle Claybourn
?llilcs.
l\Jay 12, 1915-Kcnnett, at Kennett, Shasta county. Cephas Le'vvis
Cr,·gg, l\fastcr; Vaughan \Villiam Ash. Senior \Varden; Edward Cyrus
Thompson. Junior \Varden; and Charles Augustus Hoffmaster, Leotis
\Villiam Kirk, James Erwin llarris, John l\IcQuarrie JVIuir, Monroe
Eaer, Frank Leroy Brown, Ben Banes Parker, John Peter Sandhol<lt,
James Stanton Smithsou, ]Jarry Donnelly, Bernard Golinsky, Clyde
\Va de Smith, George 1\1 illcr Davi.s, Thomas \Villiam Nicholas, James
Caken I lays, ?\ oah Jacoh Pen turf, Elihu Shan ton Ellis.
l\Iay 26. 1915-Ramona Lodge, near ~\lhamhra, Los Angeles county. \\!alter J. Johnson, l\Taster; \Villiam Ellis Cole. Senior \Varden;
Timothy :'.\forton Doyle, Junior \Varden; and Thomas Berrey, George
Henry Boynton, ;\dolphus !\ewton Hoclim1s, John George Coward,
Hubert Ocknthal, Conlon Byron Bish, Freel \Vhitney Marshall, Frank
Valentine l\farshall, :\rlow Alvin \Vatson, Thomas F. Vanasck, Frank
Leon Johnson, Royal Francis Richards, Frederick \Vilhclm Busch.
Edward Lewis Farmer, Charles Bates Short, Richard Fred Steyer,
William Crittenden Lockett, Benjamin Joseph Trainor, Orville Eli
Brown, Edmond Leonard Tripp.
August 6, 1915-Henry S. Orme Lodge, at Los Angeles. James
Harry Andrews, l\faster; John lknry Sheridan, Senior \Varden;
Edward Morrison, Junior \Varden; and Harry Elmer Eisele, Arthur
Linwood Crandall, Henry Stanley \Vood. Luke Houghton, Albert
James Reid, Frederic Newton, Roy Dwain \Volfc, Frank John Urson,
.\dolph l\fartin Ilansen, "J." Wellington DcYoe, Howard Holton
Ro wins.
October 12. 1915-Mount Oso Lodge, at Tracy, San Joaquin county.
Frank H arloe \Vestlake, ).faster; Victor Mayer, Senior \Varden; Lloyd
han Gerry, J nnior \Varden; and \Valter Scott Joy, Herbert "E." Littlejohn, Henry Heil, Charles "E." Pulliam, Ralph "D." \Vhipple, Leonard ·
John vVestlake, :\clson Shields Dwelly, Simeon John Frerichs, l\Iilncr
Reginald Fothergill, Harry "\V." \Vilson, Edwin Henry \Villiams,
Roy ~Whittier Ames, Bayard Taylor Baker, David Rollaud Payne,
Orville Hurd Root, Francis \Villard Duffy, Alhcrt Percival Cerow,
Lynn Oliver Stark.

'rhc

for the abon'-named Lrnlgcs
all <Inly signed
by the Constitutional nnmher of Master l\fasons, "accompanied hy

the dirnits or certificates of the signers," which under our hnv as it
now stands results in confusion, in that a considerable number of the
signers are nominally now members of two Lodges, actual dirnits not
having been issued. I submit that the law should be so framed that
when a member joins in the organization of a new Lodge his membership should automatically
in another Lodge. If the member
hails from another jurisdiction, no certificate other than a <limit should
be received.
A record of the proceedings in the matter of the consolidation of
FO\vler Lodge No. 398 with Selma Lodge Ko. 277 is presented herewith. together with the ballots of the members, showing a practically
unanimous vote in favor of consolidation, under the name and number
of Sc Ima Lodge Ko. 277.
Pur~uant to the consent of Grand Lodge, u11a11imonsly granted at
last .·\nnnal Communicatipn, a new edition of the "Constitution and
Ceremonies'' was printpd in April, 1915, and all references
Parts
and Articles were eliminated. thus making the book more easily read
and cross-references more readily found.

The membership one year ago was 53,179, and notv,·ithstarnling tht•
general cry of hard times and depression of business, we this vear
have gained 2162 members, making the total membership now 55:341.
Last year the suspensions for non-payment of dues amou11ted to 532
and the restoratious 133; this year the suspensions are 732, and the
restorations 146. l cannot escape the conviction that susp'-'nsions arc
not always the result of depressed business conditions, but that in
many instances the member in arrears might he kept in good standing
and Masonic usefulness by studied effort on the part of Masters all(!
Secretaries. The largest Lodge in this jurisdiction, with a memberof more than ni'ne hundred, lost no member last year by reason
of suspension for non-payment of dues. And yet this Lodge pays
annually in the way of relief the princely sum of approximatelv seven
dollars from each member. One of the principal committc~s is a
"Committee on Delinquent l\kmbers," and it is the dutv of the memhers of this committee to ascertain the cause of delinquency-with
the :1appy result that if a member be in distress, his dues arc promptly
re1111ttcd, and if he be negligent merely, he is shown the error of his
ways and his dnty to his fellows. This scheme is hopefully suhmittcrl
tu those L()(lges which lose mcmlwrs by suspension.
In this connection J submit for your careful consideration the
following excerpt from the "New Free-Mason's Monitor," by James
Hardie, published in the year 1818, under the caption, "Of Qualifica-

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

>; l'CC'Ssary for Those \Vl10 vVish to Become Free-Masons'': ''N 0
person is capahk unless he he of sufficient natural endowments, with
;111 estate, office. lracle, occupation, or some \·isihle way of acquiring
;111 lwnc:;t livelihood, as becomes the members of this most ancient
and lwnorahk fraternity; who ought not only to earn a sufficiency for
tlicrnsclves ancl fa111ilies. hut, likewise, have something to spare for
\\"(irks of charity and mercy. They ought previous to their application
fur admission. to consider their income, and the situation of their
families."
tirn1:;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3H

Case No. 182-Expellcd hy Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
Case Ko. 183-Expcllcd by Burlingame Lodge ~o. 400.
Case No. 184-Expelled hy I\f onela Lodge No. 40S.
Case Ko. 185-Expellcd by La Parfaite Union Lodge Ko. 17.
Case No. 186---Suspended by Laurel Lodge Ko. 24S.
Case No. 187-Suspended hy South Gate Lodge Ko. 320.
Case Ko. 153-Retrial. Member of South \Vest Lodge No. 283;
expelled by San Diego Lodge Ko. 3S.

lf somewhat of the ahon: policy should be pursued by Lodges,
our Boards of Relief would be taxed less and we would not be so
rapidly clriiting into the condition of an eleemosynary institution.

Of proposed amendments to the Hy-Laws, the Crand ~raster has
approved the following:

Transcripts of trial records have been received and referred lo
the Committee on Appeals and Grievances, as follows:

Reducing fees for degrees: Occidental No. 22 · S·l!1 Dieoo ;\ 0 15 ·
Excelsior 1\ ~ 166; Ora1:g: Crave X o. 293; Vallee' c~e' Fran~: No .. 3':z9 ';
West Gate .!\o. 335; Ferns Xo. 411; Blackmer No. 442.

Case ?\o. 51-Expclkcl hy California Lodge No. 1; petition for
restoration.
Case Kn. 152-Rctrial. l\Icmlwr of Hawaiian Lodge ?\o. 21; suspended hy Honolulu Lodge No. 409.
Case No. 160-Rctrial. l\feml)er of \Vest Lake Lodge No. 392;
cxpdlecl by South Cate Lodge No. 320.
Case ?'\" o. 168-~J eml:er of Mission Lodge No. 169; expelled by
l~akersfielcl Loclge No. 224.
Case I\ o. 169-Expclled hy Carquinez Lodge No. 337.
Case No. 170-Expellccl hy Carquinez Lodge No. 337.
Case :Xo. 171-Suspended hy Midway Lodge No. 426.
Case No. 172-1\femher of Moneta Lodge No. 405; expelled by
Pcntalpha Lodge No. 202.
Case No. 173-Expellecl l)y Humboldt Lodge No. 79.
Case No. 174-(E. A.)

Expelled by Ashlar Lodge No. 306.

Case Ko. 175-1\femhcr of Jewel Lodge No. 374; tried by Doric
Lodge ?\o. 216 ancl acquitted. Appeal by accuser.
Case l\o. 176---Expelled by Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.
Case X o. 177-?'lfember of J achin Lodge No. 739, Kentucky; expelled by Eureka Lodge No. 16.
Case Ko. 178-I\Jcml)lT of Temescal Lodge No. 314; expelled by
Enrgreen Lodge No. 259.
Case No. 179-Expellccl hy ?\fotJcla L(J(lge t\o. 40S.
Case !\ o. 180-Expelled hy I\Toncta Loclge No. 405.
Case Xo. 181-Suspemlccl hy Porten·illc Lodge No. 303.

.:ncreasing fees for degrees: Cold Hill Xo. 32; 1-lornitos :\f o. 98;
Pac1hc No. 136; Laurel :>;"o. 245; Lodi Xo. 256; Santa Paula 1\o. 291;
Temescal Ko. 314; \Vest Lake 1\o. 392.
Reducing elm's:
No. 421.

Enterprise No. 70 (from $24 to $18); Inglewood

I~1crea~ing dues: Tuolumne X o. 8; George \Vashington No. 62;
Horrntos .!\o .. 98; Bear l\lountain ::\o. 76; Molino Xo. 150; Woodland
No. 156; Laurel No. 245 (to $18); Pomona No. 246; Tuscan No. 261;
Santa Paula No. 291; Berkeley Ko. 363; Eagle Rock No. 422.
Fixing fee for second an cl third degrees: Wilmington Ko. 198.
Repealing affiliation fee: :l\1 id way X o. 426.
Creating affiliation fee:
Temescal No. 314.

Suisun Xo. 55; Paso Robks Ko. 286;

Increasing affiliation fee: Li Ye Oak X o. 61 ; Ficlclitv No. 120;
Doric No. 216; Y erba Buena No. 403.
.
r
Changing time of stated meetings: Tuolumne No. 8; Temple
do. 1~; Golcl 1'.ill ~o. 32; 111inoistown Xo. 51; Suisun Xo. SS; Amaor "t\o. 65; Smcenty No. 132; Abell No. 146; Redwood No. 16('!;
~onfidence X o..203; Granite No. 222; Janesville Ko. 232; Fresno
o. 247; 1--lespenan No. 264; Orland I\ o. 265; Arroyo No. 274; Oakdale No. 275; Madera No. 280; South West No. 283; Elsinore No. 289;
~os Gatos No. 292; Mokelumne Hill Ko. 298; Santa Lucia No. 302;
Torwalk No. 315; Sanger Ko. 316; Alhambra :'\'" o. 322; Fullerton
No. 339; Buena Park No. 357; Brawley No. 402; Calexico No. 412·
~rlmgton Ko. 404; Exeter No. 424; Pittsburg No. 429; Coronad(~
N~: ::~.; La Puente Xo. 446; I\Ionnt Diablo No. 448; San Pasqual

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PH.OCEEDlNGS OF THE

348

l~y ()rder of the Crand ::\faster. special dispensations for \·ariot 1 s
pu rposcs kt \·e been issued from th is o ftiCL'. as fo llo\\':; :

To ckct officers al a time other than that ltxed hy law: Benicia
:\(J. 5; Hornitos No. 98; Lassen Nu.149; l'-cystonc :\o. 161; Excelsior
:\o. 166; Keith I\o. 187; Confidence No. 203; llill's Ferry ~o. 236;
. \rroyo .l\ o. 274; Carquinez No. 337; San Fernando :\ o. 343; ;\ rlington No. 414; Lindsay :\o. 416; Alpha No. 431.
To reballot upon rejected candidates within t weh·c months: Li\·e
Oak >: o. 61; Pacific .:\ o. 136; South San Francisco ?\ o. 212; Solano
::\ o. 229 ; La urcl I\ o. 245 ; King Solomon's .l\ o. 260; Durant :\ o. 268 :
Sequoia Ko. 349; Veteran :'.\o. 373; Balder ~o. 393; ::\Ioneta No. 405;
Elysia11 No. 418; Alpha :\o. 431; Colden \Vest F D.
To recei\·c petition from memher U. S. army: Silver Cate "'.'\' o. 296.

Resolutions creating life memberships have been adopted by the
following Lodges, and appro\·ecl hy the Crand ::\I aster: Arcata N n.
106; Brooklyn ?\ o. 225; Pre:;iclio :\ n. 354; Burlingame ?\ o. 400; Park

:\o. 449.
A formal request for recognition has heen received from the Grand
Lodge of :\ncient Free and .4.ccccptecl ::\f asons of Queensland, which,
hy order of the Crand ::\laster, has hecn referred to the Chairman of
the Committee 011 Foreign Correspondence.

The condition of the Special Emergency Relief Fund in the hands
of the Crand Secretary is as follows:
Balance on hand as per report of 1914............................................ $6,281.87
October 31, 1914-Refund Grand Lodge of Ohio .......................... 1,666.67
December 31, 1914-Dividend................................................................ 131.17
June 30, 1915-Dividend.......................................................................... 161.58
.\mount now in fund ........................................................................ $8,241.29
The refund from Ohio referred to above was returned by Robin-.
son Locke, Secretary of the Ohio 1\Iasons Floocl Relief Committee.
being one-third of our contribution to the flood sufferers in and around
Dayton.
Other than the Proceedings of the various jurisdictions, few ho()ks
have been acldecl to the Library during the year. The contributions
ha\'c !wen a splen<licl e<lition of the Bible by 1\Trs. Helen Knight,;, a
c1lpy of the ::\fasonic Correspomlcncc of George \Vashington, edited

by Julius F. Sachse, Librarian of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania,
and through the efforts of Brother Henry M. Owens we !tave received
from our Grand ::\Iarshal, Brother William Kettner, a large numher
of Reports from the Government printing office at Washington.
. Unfin_ished business: Relative to the decision of the Grand 1\Taster
dtsappr:)Vmg the action of Yolo Lodge in accepting the verdict of a
Lodge 111 Nevada w~1ich tried and suspended a member of Yolo Lodge.
(Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence; Proc. 1914, pages 129, 130.)
Als_o the matter of relief to members of Scottish Lodges, as dis111 corrcspo.mlcnce submitted by the Grand 1\faster.
(Referred
to F111ancc Committee; Proc. 1914, pages 31, 88.)

close~l

I_ have to extend heartfelt thanks to Grand Lodge for the vacation
pernutted last. winter, which resulted in renewed health and spirits
for me. Dunng my absence the business of Grand Lodge was in
~h;~rge ~f Brother Harry S. Johnson, Assistant Grand Secretary, an cl
it ts with real ~leasure. that I testify to his unfailing urbanity and
entire efficiency 111 handlmg the affairs of the office.
During the year ending July 31. 1915. I have drawn against the
Grand Treasurer as follows :

T¥arrant
No.
;.· John Whicher, salary, August, 1914..................................... $
- T. J. Baker, salary, August, 1914 ............................... .
3. H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1914..................... .......... ..
4. l\Iasonic Temple· Association, rent, September, .i9·i-4_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_5. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, August, ·1914.......................... .
6. · John Whicher, expressagc ........................................... _ ----7. Schwabaclter-Frey Co., carbon paper, pencils, pas·t~:--~~~:
8. Star Towel Supply Co .. June to September, 1914........... .
9. Rabjohn & Marcum. frame to picture ...... _______ ............... .
10. C. B Seaman. 150 Inspector's Reports ............................... .
11. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait 0. S. Henderson
12. T. J. Baker, expenses, July 24 to August 26, 1·9·14::::::::::
13. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ........
14. John vVhicher. salary, Septcmhcr, 1914.
15. 1'. J. Baker. salary, September, 1914.. _.............. .
16. H. S. Johnson, salary, September. 1914 ....... ..
17. 1\raso11ic Temple Association, rent, OctolJcr, 1914.. ..
18. Mrs. C. Vv. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge........ ..
19. Geo. R. Caldwell ' bindina Roll Call -------------------------------------,
~

300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
13.63
2.63
10.05
2.25
1.25
5.00
100.00
158.30
25.00
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.(X)

.75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PUOCEEDlNGS OF THE

2ll.

'.\1. W. N u11amaker, dictation and typing Grand Master's

21.

Sha1111011-Co11111y, 500 small 2c envelopes, $12.50; 500
large 2c em·elopes, $12.75; 200 notices of dedication

22.

.:\cal Puhlishing Co., 500 letter circulars (Gr. l\lastcr)
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, September, 1914....................... .
T. J. Baker. expenses, August 27 to September 24, 1914
Ceo. R. Armstrong, 15,500 Receipts for dues ..................... .
Mrs. '.\f. Tower, washing 1SO aprons ................................... .
\Vm. P. Filmer, Pay Roll, 1914............................................. .
Xorman '.\fullin, solo at opening of Grand Lodge ............
Hrnj. F. Bledsoe, contingent expenses of Grand l\Iaster
Samuel D. Mayer, salary and sundries .............................. ..
Geo. P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler.. ..............................
Board of Relief, San Francisco, appropriation ............... ..
Board of Relief. Los Angeles, appropriation .................... ..
Board of Relief, San Diego,
Board
Relief, Oakland, appropriation ........................ ..
Illi11oistown Lodge ::\'o. 51, reimbursement a/c Bro.
'.\Iorn1on ................................................................................. .
Oak Grove Lodge X o. 215, reimbursement a/c relief... .. .
Mrs. E. R. Bates, oil portrait l\I. :\1. Estee ....................... .
B. Barnett. Elsinore Lodge I\ o. 289, mileage, 1912 ... .
J. _$. Godcau, four dozen gloves ........................................... .
Shre\'e &
silver service, J. D. ::vrurphey .................... ..
l\fasonic Temple Association,
annual communication
F. E. Gentry, stenographer to committees ......................... .
John \Vhicher, balance pay roll... .. .'....................................... .
John \Vhicher, salary, October, 1914.................................. .
T. J. Baker, salary, October, 1914 ..................................... ..
H. S. Johnson, salary, October, 1914........
.............. ..
::\Tasonic Temple Association, rent, l\o\·emher, 1914 ....... .
~\lrs. C. W. Taylor,
by Grand Lodge ....... .
John \Nhicher, sundry expense during month .................. ..
Royal Tnde111Pily Co., premium bonds Gr. Sec. and Gr.
Treas ....................................................................................... .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent. October, 1914 ............................ .
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ... .
Keal P11hlishing Co., 3200 cards, Credential Committee
11. 'I' \V rig hi ..\ssistant !() Cram! Tyler..
.\. L :\tJrad11u, rngrnssi11g 13 cltarkrs ....
E. C. 11 nghes l'1>., 500 2c enn~lopes, $12.50; 1000 kttn
he~tds Crarnl :\Tasler,
l~emington Typewriter Co., repairing two machines ........

alldress

................................................................................... .

$2.75
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.

39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.

52.
53.
54.
55.
5h.

Si.
58.

10.CO

28.00
5.25
9.05
137.05
57.35
8.20
7,374.55
10.00
1,200.00
80.00
125.00
2,672.40
4.000.00
1,000.00
116.00

59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.

70.
90.00
70.65
125.00
5.25
11.00
300.00
150.00
30.00
108.00
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
14.94
62.50
9.15
4.00
9.75

15.00
13.00
26.00
2.35

71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.

82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.

351

Co., rent of machine ....... .
2.50
Underwood
'.\Irs. '.\I. Tower, washing aprons and gloves ...................... ..
40.25
27.45
T. J. Baker, expenses, October 24 to 30, 1914 .................. .
Shannon-Cornny, 1000 reports Masonic Temple Assn ... ..
9.50
Edward H. Hart, Chairman Committee 011
ence .......................................................................................... .
200.00
Joh11 vVhichcr, salary. Xovemher, 1914 ................................. .
300.00
T. J. Baker, salary, l\ovcmher, 1914 ..................................... .
250.00
150.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1914.............................. .
150.00
l\Jasonic Temple Association, rent. December, 1914 .... .
25.00
Mrs. C. \V. Taylor, appropriation hy Grand Lodge ....... .
Sha1mo11-Conmy, 400 lists of rejections. $15.00; 500 large
2c envelopes, $12.75; 1000 circulars. $6.00; 500 clasp
envelopes, $4.25 ; 500 small 2c envelopes, $12.50; 500
large 2c envelopes, $12.75; 2000 certificates of election. $9.00; 2400 inspector's certificates, $10.75; 1000
Monitors, $120.00; 500 addresses, \Vaste, Linscott &
Filmer, $18.00; 500 large 2c
$12.75; 400
249.25
lists of rejections, $12.00; 250 clasp envelopes, $3.50
21.77
John Whicher, postage stamps, $20.50; sundries. $1.27
D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait C. W. Nutting .................... ..
100.00
13.00
W. M. Brunt Co., 650 examination questions ................... .
Rahjqlm & J\Iorcum, frame portrait Henderson ............... .
35.00
16.50
Neal Puhlishing Co., 2000 amendments to Constitution
14.50
Charles l\I. Plum, one rug
Pacific T. & T. Co .. rent November, 1914........................... .
9.36
2.25
Star Towel Supply Co., September to December, 1914 .. ..
John vVhicher, salary, December, 1914................................ ..
300.00
T. J. Baker. salary, December, 1914 ................................. ..
250.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, January, 1915 ........... .
150.00
150.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, December. 1914 ................................. .
25.00
Mrs. C. vV. Taylor, appropria'tion by Grand Lodge ....... .
Shannon-Conmy, 1300 Proceedings. 1914 ............................ .. 1,193.20
Neal Publishing Co., 250 amendments to Constitution,
1913 .................................................................. _..................... .
5.00
100.00
D. G. Blakiston. oil portrait vV. S. Wells ........................... .
8.00
Pacific T. & T.
n'nt, December, 1914 .......................... ..
W. P. Jeffries Co .. 600 2c envelopes ................................... .
15.25
T. J. Baker, expenses, I\ ovember 28 to December 24, 1914
47.60
Geo. R. Armstrong, 13,000 receipts, $51.60: 50 tuhes, $3.50
55.10
vV. D. £11gk suhscriµtion tu Rdid :\ss11. U. S .. and
Canada ..........................., ........................................................ ..
265.90
300.00
John \Vhicl1er, salary, January, 1915 .................................... .
250.00
T. J. Baker, salary, January, 1915 ........................................ ..

352
93.
94.
95.
96.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

98.
99.
100.
101.

H. S. Johnson, salary, January, 1915 ................................... .
.i\Iasonic Temple Association, rent, February, 1915 ........... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ....... .
John Whicher, expressage, $120.55; revenue stamps,
$6.00; stenographer, $2.00 ................................................. .
Shannon-Conmy, 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75; binding
5 volumes Proceedings, $7.50; 400 lists rejections,
$16.00; 2000 address labels, $5.00; 500 mileage tags,
$2.25 ·----·--··--------------··-----------------------···----·--·····------··---··------------·
\V. N. Brunt Co., 500 inspector's commissions ................. .
Neal Publishing Co., 300 amendments, 1912..................... .
Rabjohn & Morcum, frame portrait C. W. Nutting ___________ _
Schwabacher-Frey Co., wrapping paper.. ............................. .

102.
103.
104.
105.

E. C. Hughes Co., 1600 letterheads ------··--····-----·-······-··---·····
Irvine & Jach ens, repairing dater.. ......................................... .
Rabjohn & Morcum, frame portrait W. S. Wells ___________ _
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, January, 1915 _____________________________ _

lex>.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.

T. J. Baker, expenses, December 29 to January 28, 1915
John Whicher, salary, February, 1915 ............ ···--·······--·-·-----·
T. J. Baker, salary, Fehrnary, 1915 ..................................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary, February, 1915 ................................. .
Ma sonic Temple Association, rent, March, 1915 ............... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ......... .
D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait J. D. Murphey ........................... .
Pantagraph Printing & Stationery Co., 400 lists of
Lodges _______ -·---- -----··--------------------------····------- ____ ·····----- _
Neal Publishing Co., 1200 circulars, price list... ................ .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, February, 1915 ............................. .
L. M. Alexander Co., overhauling machine ....................... .
John Whicher, postage stamps, $34.00; expressage, $4.19
T. J. Baker, expenses, January 30 to February 24, 1915
John Whicher, salary, March, 1915 ....................................... .
T. J. Baker, salary, March, 1915 ............................................. .
H. S. Johnson, salary, March, 1915 ....................................... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent, April. 1915 ................. .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ......... .
Star Towel Supply Co., December to l\farch, 1915 ..... .
Schwabacher-Frey Co., unl· box pens.
Rabjohn & ..\Iorcum, frame portrait ]. D. 1\1 ttrpht'y ..
\V. :\'". Brunt, 55,000 circulars (endowment fund)
I n·ine & J achens, 6 line stamp ............................................... .

97.

114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

150.00
150.00
25.00
128.55

43.50
9.50
8.50
35.()()
2.75
9.50
1.50
35.00
9.67
45.70
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
100.00
174.14
10.25
8.40
12.50
38.19
105.60
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
2.25
1.75
35.00
190.00
1.20

129.
130.
131.
132.
I.13.
134.
135.
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.

353

Eleanor C. Bannister, oil portrait J. A. Foshay ............... .
Shannon-Conmy, 1200 rosters $295.50; sundry printing

100.00

$55 --···--------·-----··---··--------··------------······-----···-·---·----------··-----·--······
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ... .
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 500 small diplomas ..................... .
Geo. R. Armstrong, 19,000 receipts, $70.30; 300 life membership receipts, $9.00 .............................. -------···---------·-------T. J. Baker, expenses, February 24 to l\f arch 18, 1915 ... .
John Whicher, postage stamps ................................................. .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, March, 1915 ................................. .
John Whicher, salary, April, 1915 ......................................... .
T. J. Baker, salary, April, 1915 ............................................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary, April, 1915 ........................................... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent, l\fay. 1915 ................... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ......... .
Mercantile Trust Co., rent of safe deposit box _______________ _

351.00
4.00
65.00

143. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, April, 1915 ... --------·-·---·--·------···-----144. Neal Publishing Co., 250 diplomas imprinted ..................... .
145. T. J. Baker, expenses, March 28 to April 10, 1915 ..
146. John \Vhicher, ,salary, l\J ay, 1915 ........... ------------·-··--·--------······
147. T. J. Baker, salary, May, 1915 ................................................. .
148. H. S.. Johnson, salary, l\Iay, 1915 .... -----·---·-------------·-·----·------149. Masonic Temple Association, rent, June, 1915 ___________________ _
150. l\frs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation hy Grand Lodge ___________ _
151. G. P. Caldwell, 4 rosters, $80.00; pay roll and roll call,
$9.00 ---···---····----·------·----·---·----···--···----····------······--·-----···········----152. Schwabacher-Frey Co., 24 grip files, $4.50; 1 box eyelets,
25c -------------····---··--·---··----------------------------··-------·-----·----·--··----·-·---153. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, May, 1915 ... ------·-----···----·------·--·-·-··
154. Shannon-Conmy, 1000 Monitors, $120.00; printing, $24.75
155. T. J. Baker, expenses, April 25 to l\Iay 27, 1915 ............... .
156. John Whicher, expressage .... -----·--------------···-------·------------------·---157. J. B. Heitman, order of Grand Master.. _____________________________ _
158. John Whicher, salary, June, 1915 ..... ----------·-----------·-·------·----159. T. J. Baker, salary, June, 1915 ............................................... .
160. H. S. Johnson, salary, June, 1915 .......... -----------------------·······--·161. l\Irs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ......... .
162. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master.. ............................... .
163. Ceo. P. Caldwell, cash book. .. ·--·---------····--····-----··--·--------··-------164. H. S. Crocker Co., city directory ........................................... .
165. J. P. Fraser, papering Grand Secretary's office ............... .

79.30
94.65
94.00
8.20
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
7.50
8.64
1.50
22.70
300.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
89.00
4.75
10.13
144.75
108.30
3.96
25.00
300.00
250.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
6.25
7.50
22.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

166.
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.

189.

Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, June, 1915 .................................... .
Rabjohn & Morcum, frame portrait
>I ea! Pubfr.;hing Co .. 1000 Constitutions and Ceremonies
W. P. Jeffries Co., 200 2c envelopes ..................................... .
Geo. R Armstrong, 17,000 receipts for dues ..................... .
Star Towel Supply Co .. rent to June 1, 1915 ................... .
Keal Publishing Co., 500 2c envelopes ................................. .
T. J. Baker, expenses, June 2 to June 24, 1915 ................. .
.:\Jasonic Temple Association, rent. July, 1915 ..................... .
\Villiam P. Filmer, salary for year ....................................... .
John \Vhichcr, salary, July, 1915 ........................................... .
T J. Baker, salary, July, 1915 ............................................... .
I I. S. Johnson, salary, July, 1915 ............................................. .
~T rs. C. \V. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ......... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand :\Taster .................... .
.:\f asonic Temple Association. rent. "\ugust, 1915 ............. .
John \Vhicher, postage stamps, $36.12; telegrams, 72c;
Wells
Express, $1.93 ................. :.......................... ..
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, July, 1915 .................................... .
H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph ......................................... .
\Valter K. Brunt, 1000 second sheets ..................................... .
M. J\.L Herndon. typing reports of inspectors ..................... .
Keal Publishing Co., 1000 circulars for Grand Master
Shannon-Conmy Co., 800 cnvelopes for annual returns,
$8.50; 800 anntial return blanks, $85.00; 500 small 2c
en \·elopes, $12.50; 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75; 400
lists of rejections, $20.00; 2 receipt blanks, $15.00 ..... .
T. J. Baker, expenses, July 10 to July 30, 1915 ................ ..

355

Sales for year-

9.11
35.00
526.65
6.00
65.05
2.25
12.50
113.55
150.00
200.00
300.00
250.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
150.00

Total receipts General Fund ............................................................ $64,149.35
Total receipts Home Maintenance Fund ...................................... 53.179.00
Total receipts Hom~· Building Fund ................................ ........... 26,589.50

38.77

Amounting in the aggregate to ................................................$143,917.85

8.30
113.05
1.00
5.50
12.50

l 53.75
64.05

Diplomas (large)
Diplomas (small)
Constitutions (inter leaved) ..................................................... .
Constitutions (paper bound) ......................................................
Constitutions and Ceremonies ................................................... .
Proceedings ................................................................................... .
Receipts for dues ........................................................................... .
Receipt holders ........................................................................... .
Bound volun1es ............................................................................. .
J\1onitors ......................................................................................... .
Lists of regular Lodges ............................................................. .

215.00
52.50
1.50
2.50
520.00
17.00
311.25
47.20
2.50
402.25
5.25

All which has been paid to the Grand Treastirer. as per receipts
on file in this office,
as should he shown in his report.

Interest on bonds and deposits has been collected hy the Treast1rer as follows:
Deposit with Union Trust Company ..............................$1,499.05
Seven Blue Lake Water Co. 6% bonds.................
420.00
Six Southern Pacific 4% refunding bonds ................. . 240.00
Nine California Gas and Electric 5% bonds ............... . 450.00
Eight Pacific Tel. and Tel. 5% bonds ........................... . 400.00
Two Los Angeles Gas and Electric 5% bonds ............. . 100.00 $3,109.05

Total ................................................................................$34,891.69
Total receipts from all sources for the year ending July 31, 1915 .................................................................... $147,026.90
The Grand Secretary in account with tire Grand Lodge of California for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1915:
Dues from subordinate Lodges ........................................................ $60,879.15
Fees for charters (13)................................ .......................................
650.00
Dispensations to form new Lodges ..................................... ..
600.00
Special dispensations for various purposes ................................. .
430.00
San Francisco Board of Relief, cash refunded ........................... .
5.00
Pay roll, halance not paid Representati,·cs ................................... .
8.25

RECAPITULATION

Balance with Grand Tr~asurer July 31, 1914 ................................ $11.807.98
General Fund ......................................................................................... 64,149.35
Interest ...................................................................................................... 3.109.05

Less Warrants Kos. 1 to 189 ................................................................ 34,891.69
Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1915 .............................. $44.174.69

PHOCE~DlNGS

OF 'l'IUJ
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

For the current fiscal year ;\ngust L 1915, to October 5, inclusi,·e.
I have collected and paid to the Craml Treasurer the sum of $142.579.50,
segregated as follows:

~·et

.\ml why this depression, why this distress?

357

\V c all know.

And

:"c sh:1dder to express. Look at the unfortunate conditions exist-

!ng_ 111 _enhghte1~e~I Europe and in Mexico. Look at the closing of factories m_ the Dmtcd
or the reduction of the numbers of employees 111 other manufactories, and also at the compdling of the
workmen to be content \vith one-half or two-thirds of the ftill t" ,
Tl.
.
rme.
11s n_aturally compels the mechanic to seek new
and the ten1
d1.:11cy s always to "Go West." vVe leave the question unanswered.

Home Maintenance Fu11d ................ ----·············- ---··········---··---------·---· $55,341.00
Home Building Fund __________________ ........................ ----·········--· .. ............. 27.670.50
( ~encral Fund ··-···------------·-········- ......................... ....... ........ ............... 51,395.55
Reprcsentatiye Fund
8,172.45
;\ total

T::·.;'\'ALJDs-(From iast year's report but worth repeating.)
Th_is is. 1~0 place for a really sick man. unless he has plc 11 t,· of meam
and 1s vnlltng to part \vith his money. He can't live on cli;natv alone
<_tnd before _any of tl'.e c?rporations will employ him. he must pass :~

JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

\ \'hich was referred to the same committee as that to
which had been referred the address of the Grand l\f aster.

BOARDS OF RELIEF.
The reports of the Masonic Hoards of Relief of 'Los
. \ng·eles. San Francisco, Honolulu. San Jose, Oakland ancl
San Diego were presented and referred to the Finance
l 'ommittee. as follows:
LOS ANGELES BOARD OF RELIEF.

To the JI.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Th<.: l\lasonic Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles herewith
presents the following report of its labors from September 1, 1914, to
;\ugust 31, 1915.
The :Masonic Board of Relief is composed of the Masters (ex
officio) of the 26 Blue I,odges of this city a11d two members appointed
hv each of them ton-ether \vith the Past Grand lVIasters residing within
tl;e City of Los .f\n~~les, the Inspectors of the Several Masonic District"
of Los Angeles City, one representative from each of the several Royal
. \rch Chapters, the Council. the Comrnancleries, the Scottish Rite Bodies
and the Shrine, also the Ylanager of the Masonic Employment Bureau,
:md one Past \Vorthy Matron of the Order of the Eastern Star.
01:1-'1c1~Rs
President, Brother John Hill Bean: Vice-President,
Hrothcr Dana Reid Weller; Treasurer, Brother l\fotley Tl ughes Flint;
:·keretary. Brother John Marcus Dunsmoor.

. \nother vear has come and gone, and we again make an attempt
draw the. curtain to shield you from viewing the distress which
daily i~ pres,•ntetl to this Ex(·cutive Committee.
\CJ

I

I-

severe physical e~ammatton. The examining physician docs his work
thonwghly and gi,·es the corporation the benefit of the doubt. A man
O\·er forty years of age has very little show for any position.
a great work.
the year:

BUHE.\u.-Our Masonic Employment Bureau is doing
The l\Ianager reports the nmnher of applications during

Applications:

I\frn, U12; women, 286; total. J.398 .

Positions filled:

I\I en, 687; women, 1I6; total. 803.

The abo~c represents good positions secured, hut does not include
minor or temporary jobs of a few hours to a few days duration, of
which latter there were 489.

~l

DEATHs.-During the year ending August 31. 1915, the following
Masons or members of their families have passed to their final
rewar_d, and their remains have been
burial with .:\Iasonic honors,
or shipped ;:iccording to the wishes of the families, viz.:
1

NAME.

Markus Wood Ross
Duncan :MacDonald
Leander N. Turner
Andi:ew Ivory
Pauline Brandt, dtr.
Elma Kalau
John Jarrett James
W tn. T. Young
John 8. Dnrkliarl
James 1\1. Hull
Oscar Lusk
Jacob Listrnan

LODGE AND NO.

LOCA'I'JOK
DA TE 0!1 DEA TH
Evansville, Ind.
Sept. 5, 1914
Valley City, ~- Dak.
19.
Wall Lake. Iowa
18,
Kinghorn, Scotland Oct. 1. "
Chicago, Tll.
14.
Naugatuck, Conn.
28.
Hanover, Canada
28.
Pekin, Ill.
30, "
Phoenix 178
San Rernardi110. Cal. Nov. 7.
\VadC' Barney 512 Bhi<nningtun, Ill.
7.
Constantine 13
Bonham. Tt>x .
7.
Central City 305 Syracuse, N. Y.
Evansville 64
Valley City 7
Lake 390
St. Leonard 935
Constellation 892
Shepherd 78
Hanover 432
Pekin 29

29,

"

:_;5g

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME.

LODGE AND NO.

LOCATION

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
D.\

n: OF DE.\ TH

Louis :M. Noah

King David 209 San Luis Obispo, Cal. Mar. 3. "
6. "
Hampden
Springfield, 1\fass.
7. "
Lenora 208
Lenora, Okla.
8. "
Robt. Morris 115 Eagle, Wis.
14. "
King Solomon 9 Helena, Mont.
24. "
Humboldt P'k 813 Chicago, Ill.
31. "
Golden Rule 726 Chicago, Ill.
Apr. 2. "
Aurora
Fitchburg, :\fass.
4, "
Worcester, Mass.
Morning Star
3,
Elsinore. Cal.
Elsinore 289
6. "
Utah "
Salt Lake
Mt:Moriah 2
6. "
Mistletoe 269
Conway Springs. Kan. "
13. "
St. John 25
Omaha, N eh.
24. "
Chan. Wolw'th 271 Kew York KY.
May
1, "
Keystone 639
Chicago. Ill.

Geo. Munroe
Han·cy 0. Devereaux
Geo. \V. Yerkes
Charles R. Siegel
Robt. H. Poage
James L. Beckwith
James M. White
\Vm. H. Larking
W rn. E. Sloan
Walter L. Scott
John H. Flaherty
\V 111. L. Allison
Theo. Pfafflin
Christian C. Hartman
6,
.\lhcrt \Voo<l
North'n Light 505 ·west Chazy, N. Y.
15,
Gardiner Chipley
Palestine 241
St. Charles, 1\To.
18,
0. K Nabors
1\farlow 103
Marlow, Okla.
2R,
JanH·s F. Beggs
Marcus 110
Fredcrickstown, \fo.
June 3
Wm. H. Traffonl
Rig Rapids 171
Big Rapids, Mich.
14.
Frederick F Everman Schiller 41
Denver. Colo.
17,
Franklin Pierce Jackson Delano 309
Delano. Cal.
ii ~ 25,
Charles W. Clark
Redlands 300
Redlands, Cal.

LODGE AND NO.

NAME.

Dec. 1,
Charles F. Bauer
Wm.McKinley 431 Canton, Ohio
1 "
Wm. A. Alexander
Rio Blanco 81
Rio Blanco, Co.lo.
8.
Daniel D. 1\Iedcalf
Liberty
Beverly, 1\fass.
15, "
\Vm. E. Botsford
Midway 426
Taft. Cal.
26, "
Richard Griffith
Chehalis 28
Chehalis, \Vash.
Edward Medler
Temple 6
..\lbuquerque, N. :vr. Jan. 2, 1915
8, "
Wm. M. Long
J. B. Covert 437 Tobasco. Ohio
9. "
Jerome B. Coon
Sakatah 32
Waterville, Minn.
15. "
Francis J. Stockwell
Pomegranate 408 Alta, Iowa
19. "
Andrew K. Van Antwerp Pagosa 114
Pagosa Springs, Colo. "
25. "
l\f rs. Walter E. Packard 1\Ianual 636
New York, N. Y.
28, "
Richard B. Sovereign
Arcade 419
Arcade, N. Y.
30.
"
\Vm. T. Childress
Artesia 406
Terrell, Tex.
30, "
Lucius C. Parker
Golden State 458 Los Angeles, Cal.
Feb. 6, "
James \V. Connor
Star in the East 330watonna, Minn.
7.. "
Perry 1\1. Walters
:Marceline 481
Marceline, 1\fo.
9, "
\Vm. M. Frazer
Ottawa 18
Otta,va, Kan.
14, "
Geo. F. \Ventworth
Milton 161
Milton Junction, \Vis. "
21. "
Enoch G. Shorts
\Velsh 232
\Velsh, La.
23.
James Shisley
Rome City 451
Rome City, Ind.
23. "
Geo. Bent
Apollo 642
Chicago, Ill.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

Joseph Henry Powell
Donald Ross
John Malcolm
Chas. W. Merring
Chas. E. Gyger
Chester H. Withey
Angus Smith
Wm. G. Mayne
\Vrn. J. Thomas
Thomas S. Fish
Geo. S. Crump
\Vm. G. Peterhans
.\'icholas A. 1\Tillcr
John H. Fullerton
:'.\Iyer S. Rafickl
DU.\ILE!l

LOC\TlON

359
DATE 011 DEATH

North Vernon 59 North Vernon, Ind. July 1. 1915
Zeredatha 189
St. Joseph, 1\fo.
5, "
Kogales 11
K ogales, Ariz.
5,
Euclid 573
Terre Haute, Ind.
7, "
Perris 411
Perris, Cal.
" 10, "
Unitah 7
Park City, Utah
11, "
Fidelity 77
Lake Megantic, Que.
27, "
Eastern Star 55 Franklin, Ohio
Aug. 4, "
Highland 86
Denver, Colo.
9. "
Bellaire 267
Bellaire, Ohio
" 11, "
Lodge of Lon 259 Lancaster, 1\Jo.
12, "
San Diego 35
San Diego, Cal.
19, "
Gloaming 482
1\Iilford, Iowa
19, "
Acacia 11
Cheyenne, \Vyo.
20.
Colorado City 76 Colorado City, Colo.
22. "
S'I'.\1'EMENT OF

RECElP'I'S

AND DISHCRS01ENTS.

CLASSII'lED DY JURJSD1CTTONS.

Paid. Received.
Alahama -··------- ... - ................. ----··---···-···-·
.......$ 177.50 $
5.00
.'\rizona ___ ........... -·············--···-················--········
223.00
125.00
Arkansas :··127.00
75.00
13.00
:\ 11stralia ············-·············-··········· -·-·······-··---····---·····--·········
20.00
British Columbia ·············-·-··-··········---·-·-··············· .. ·······-·
California --···-···--····················-··-·-·-·-········-......................... . 2.163.55
1.389.91
Ca11ada ............................................................................... .
632.50
250.CO
15.00
Ca11al Zone ····--·································---······ .. ······················ ..
China ................................................................................... .
5.00
Colorado ............................................................................ .
544.00
401.50
193.00
136.00
Connecticut ················-·-·············· ··················-······· ............ .
28.00
25.00
Delaware ····················-······· ........................... ··-··············· .. ··
England
118.50
Florida ................................................................................ .
175.75
30.CO
Ceorgia .............................................................................. .
65.00
73.00
Gennany ............. _.............................................................. .
55.00
1-lonolulu ............................................................................ .
20.00
7.00
Idaho
45.00
1llinois
1,585.45
1.556.60
India
52.00
l11dia11;i
667.15
319.05
low a
574.50
410.IJO
371.00
204.00
307.40
216.90
Louisiana
167.00
45.00

PfiOCE:E;DlNGS OF THE

.\la i ill~
:\la11ila ................................................................................. .
:\iarylan<l .......................................................................... .
.\las;;achusctts ................................................................... .
.\fexico
:'dichigan ... .
.\fi1111csota .......................................................................... .
:\I ississippi ........................................................................ .
".\ rissonri

:'.\ r011ta11a

·········· ...................................................................

:'.'\' el>raska ............................................................................. .

X l'\·ada ................................................................................. .
:'.'\'cw Brunswick ............................................................... .

:'.\'ew F oundland ................................................................. .
:'.'\' c\v 1-larnpshire ............................................................... .
:'.'\' C\V Jersey ...................................................................... .
Xe\v ".\!exico ....................................................................... .

X C\V York ........................................................................... .
K cw Zealand ..................................................................... .
North Carolina ................................................................. .

North J)akota ................................................................... .
Nova Scotia ....................................................................... .
Ohio ..................................................................................... .

Oklahon1a ........................................................................... .
Oregon ................................................................................. .
Pcnnsyl\·ania .................................................................... .
Philippine Islands ............................................................. .
Prince Edward Island .................................................. .
Rhode Island ..................................................................... .
Saskatchewan ..................................................................... .

Scotland ............................................................................... .
South Carolina ................................................................. .
So11th Dakota ..................................................................... .

'f cnnes,:;ee ........................................................................... .
'fexas ................................................................................... .

lJtah ..................................................................................... .
Vennont ............................................................................. .

\Vales ................................................................................... .
Washington, D. C.
\Vashington State ............................................................. .
\Vt'::! Virginia

\Visconsin
\\'yorning ............................................................................... .

104.50
10.00
89.00
851.00
602.50
518.17
392.50
80.00
382.75
124.50
321.00
38.50
17.50
35.00
55.60
170.00
221.00
961.65
22.35
149.50
228.00
85.00
587.70
491.00
144.50
848.40
10.00
27.50
48.00
40.00
244.00
55.DJ
93.00
257.00
745.35
321.I 5
59.50
13.00
125.75
159.10
78.00
127.0ll
183.50

Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 .................................................................... $ 478.96

548.00
243.00
305.00
29.76
163.80
5.00
82.50

95.00
176.00
503.00
95.00
87.00
85.00
214.00
50.00
125.00
493.40

27.00
5.00
146.00
100.00
302.00
617.75
419.05
41.00

Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 ..... -··--·-··---··················---·--··-··---··-·····--·-···--···-·
Southern California Lodge No. 278....................................... ............

489.92
655.76
East Gate Lodge No. 290..................................................................... . 610.64
1-lollenheck Lodge No. 319 ................................................................. . 668.10
South Cate Lodge No. 320.................................................................. . 706.08
Vallee de France Lodge Xo. 329 ..................................................... .
95.68
West Gate Lodge No. 335 .............................................................. ,. .. 388.64
Palestine Lodge No. 351 ........................................................................ . 303.23
Sunset Lodge No. 352.. ......................................................................... . 365.84
Golden Cate Lodge No. 358.............................................................. . 486.64
Mizpah Lodge No. 378 ................................................. .
378.08
Highland Park Lodge :\ o. 382.. .................................................... . 289.12
Westlake Lodge No. 392.. ~ ................................................................... .. 501.76
University Lodge No. 394.................................................................... . 191.76
1\foneta Lodge No. 405 ......................................................................... .. 267.16
San Pedro Lodge No. 332 .................................................................... . 124.80
\Vilmington Lodge No. 198 ................................................................... .
57.60
Hollywood Lodge No. 355 ................................................................... . 277.84
Arlington Lodge No. 414 ......................................................... .
107.68
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 ............................................................. 128.72
Elysian Lodge No. 418.................................................. ......................... 173.60
Germania Lodge No. 438....................................... ..................................
47.60
Wilshire Lodge No. 445..................... ...................................................... 121.76
Van N uys Lodge No. 450.................................................................... .
6.24
1'otal ................................................................................................. $7,923.21

RECAPITULA TIO:\f.
RECl.UPTS.

15.00
74.40
25.00

55.Ul

Balance on hand Septemlwr 1.
Grand Lodge of California

.......................... _

474.55
4,000.00

L,os Angeles City Lodges _······-··········--·-···········-·····-···-··· 7,923.21
Sister Jurisdictions ............................................................ 10,396.62
Rents, Interests, etc .......................................................... .

Totals

361

GRAND LODGE O.F' CALIFOHNIA

119.13

$10.396.62
1'otal .............................................................................. .

$22,913.51

PROCI<JEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dl SDlil{SEi\tEN'fS.

363

Exprnsc . \ccou11t ------- .... ______ ..............................................$ 3,179.78

300.00
Classified by Jurisdictions -----------..................................... 18,519.17
Employ111c11t llurcau ---------..................................................

'J'()j;ll --------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------

$21,998.95

Jhlance September 1, 1915 ............................................ ..

$

914.56

All of which is respectfully submitted.

J. H.

.\ttest:

BEc\N,

President.

J. M. DUNS.\!OOR, Secretary.

BOARD OF RELIEP OF SAN FRA:\CISCO.
To tlzc Ji.'. TV.'. Grand Lodge of California:

The Masonic Board of Relief of the i:ity of San Francisco begs
lea\'(• to present the following report for the year beginning August 25,
1914. and ending August 23, 1915, both dates inclusive:
Owing to the depression in the commercial world, which has been
general all over the country for the past year, and which was greatly
aggravated by the European war, the number of applicants for relief
has greatly increased, but owing to the efficiency of our Employment
Bureau, which works hand in hand with this Board, the amount of relief
given in a great many individual cases was small, and generally only so
much as was necessary to tide the recipient over until work could be
found; consequently, the total amount of relief expe'nded during the
year has been somewhat less than the year previous.
We have been greatly assisted in our work by the following good
brethren of the medical profession, who have always been ready and
willing to respond to any call made on them by this Board, and the
thanks of the fraternity are clue to them:
Doctors Winslow Anderson, H. I. Bloch, ]. C. Egeberg, D. E. F.
Easton, George C. H. Franklin, Otto Freyermuth, A. S. Green, William
P. Read, Jacob Schwarz, E. E. Stone, George A. Wood, Wilhelm
Wal<leyer, and A. W. L. Zillmer.
The matter of relief of dimitted Masons has always been a great
point of contention in the Board and one very hard to act upon.
We are particularly reminded of the case of a brother applying for
relief, presenting a <limit dated March 21, 1890. This man has been,
;1ccording to his own story, located in a great many parts of the country, and had arrived in California five month..> previous to his application,
and under the circumstances he could hardly be considered worthy of

~onsideration after having done nothing for the fraternity for twentytive years; yet the laws of our Grand Lodge distinctly state that the man
is in good standing for six months after his arrival in this State, not
taking into consideration the date of his dimit. Legislation which will
tend to remedy this seeming injustice ought to be had at an early date.
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand August 25, 1914.............. _____________________________________ _
Refund from Lodges in California ------------------------------$3,052.81
Refund from other Jurisdictions in United States ____ 6,842.53
Refund from a dimitted case ----------------------------------......
5.00
Refund from Foreign Jurisdictions ----------....... _____________ 190.60
Refund from the Grand Lodge ------------------------------------ 2,672.40
Total refund

----------------------------------------------------------------

$ 5,019.99

Bequest from Andronetti ........... ___________________________ .......... $ 424.09
Interest on bonds (] ohnson bequest) ......... _________________ 510.00
Interest from banks ---------------------------------------..... ________________ 235.21

12,763,34

Assessments on City Lodges

------------------------ ....... __________________________ ,, __ _

1,169,30
9,129.42

Total receipts and balance__________________________________________ ,,____________

$28,082.05

DISBURSEMENTS.

Relief-California Jurisdictions ·-------------.. ·----·--------------$4, 142.26
Relief-Other Jurisdictions in United States ______________ 9,065.33
Relief-Foreign Jurisdictions ---------------------------------------- 890.25
Relief-Unknown Lodge ----------------------------------------.......... 360.00
Relief-Dimitted ---------------·---------------------------------..... __________ 1,405.59
Total relief ··-·--·-··---·----------------------·-····------------------------·Expense-Salaries and labor -------------------------------- ..........$1,699.00
Expense-Office supplies, etc ...... ____________________________________ 227.87
Expense-Rent ...... _____________________________________________________________ , 360.00
Expense-Telephone and telegraph________________________________ 111.73
Total expense -------------------------------------------------------------·
Donations to Employment Bureau ________________ ------------------------------Total disbursements ---·---·-------------·----------------- ---·--------·------------·
Balance ----------------------·-------------------------------------·--·------------------·---·----------Less Bequest Fund Balance not invested __________________________ __
Balance on hand August 23, 1915 _____ ---------------------------------------------·

$15,863.43

2,398.60
770.00

----$19,032.0J
9,050.02
494.43
$ 8,555.59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ASSESSl\rnNTS ON CJ'fY LODGES.

Cal.if<1rnia ~o. 1 ....................................................................................... $ 554.16
La Parfaite Union No. 17....................................................................
169.65
Occidental No. 22 ....................................................................................
Golden Gate No. 30............. :................................................................... .
?\Iount 1\Ioriah No. 44 ........................................................................... .
Fidelity No. 120 ..................................................................................... .
I-Terman No. 127 ..................................................................................... .
Pacific No. 136 ....................................................................................... .
Crockett No. 139 .................................................................................... .
Oriental No. 144 ..................................................................................... .
Excelsior No. 166 ................................................................................... .
}.Iission No. 169 ..................................................................................... .
South San Francisco No. 212 ............................................................. .
])oric No. 216 ......................................................................................... .
Speranza I taliana No. 219 ................................................................... .
San 1\T a teo No. 226 ............................................................................... .
King Solomon ?'\ o. 260 ......................................................................... .
Starr King No. 344 ............................................................................... .
Presidio No. 354 ..................................................................................... .
San Francisco No. 360 ......................................................................... .
.'\mity No. 370 ....................................................................................... .
Jewel No. 374 ........................................................................................... .
Richmond No. 375 ................................................................................... .
Parnassus No. 388 ................................................................................. .
l~alcler No. 393 ....................................................................................... .
Tlurlingame No. 400 .............................. .'................................................ .
J<'air111ou11t No. 435 ............................................................................... .
Park No. 449 ........................................................................................... .

526.80
511.36
335.20
521.10
196.95
632.00
409.12
351.03
381.65
868.12
184.88
454.64
188.32
105.24
488.88
269.84
273.44
221.04
298.24
86.40
278.72
245.52
173.60
132.16
219.92
51.44

'fotal .................................................................................................. $9,129.42

RECEIPTS A~D DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY
JURISDICTIONS.
UNITED STATES.

f 11risdictio11-

Ala ha ma -----------------------

$ 10.00

Received
Total.

$

Connecticut ---------------------District of Columbia ......

$..............
60.00
75.0J
414.50
25.0G
125.00

Delaware -------------------------Florida ------------------------------

----------------

----------------

----------------

---------------10.85
321.38
368.00
247.60
120.00
230.00
155.75
85.00
10.00
154.29
187.01
181.60
346.94
30.00
73.00
62.00
349.00
4.00
1,197.58
186.40
2.50
87.00

Arizona -------------------··------Arkansas -------··----------------Colorado -----------------·--------

Georgia --·------------------------Illinois -----------------------------Iowa ---------------------------------Indiana -----------------------------Idaho -------------------------------Kansas -----------------------------Kentucky -----------------·-------Louisiana ---·---------------------Massachusetts ---------------Maine -------------------------------Montana ---------------------------Michigan -------------------------·

50.00

99.00
8.00
21.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
2.00
6.00

Minnesota -----------------------Missouri -------------------------Mississippi -----------------------Nebraska -------------------------Nevada -----------------------------New Hampshire -----------New York ------------------------

New Jersey -------------·------··
North Dakota ---------------Ohio ·-------------------·····-····-···

I

Received from
111dividuals. Lodges.

10.00
4.00
119.85
19.10
32.00

10.85
222.38
360.00
226.60
120.00
225.00
135 75
80.0G
5.00
154.29
185 01
175.60
346.94
30.00
73.00
62.00
339.00
----------------

1,077.73
167.30
2.50
55 0<1

10.00
60.00
75.00
464.50
25.00
125.00

Disburse11/e/lfS.

$

31.70
60.00
95.00
424.50
136.95
175.00
330.00
5.00
10.85
265.09
333.00
252.60
120.00
451.10
170.75
35.00
291.11
399.40
417.01
77.00
388.85
274.00

------------------

62.00
449.00
256.00
1,591.81
186.40
------------------

267.00

:mu

l'HOC.h]illlJlNG8 Oli' THE

Oregon .. -· -.. ---.--. ----. ---.--- . -Oklahoma --------------------·--Pennsylvania ....................
Philippine Islands
Rhode Island
~

South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas --·--······-···----------------Utah -------········------------------Vermont ............................
\Vashington --------------·----Wisconsin --------·"··-·---------vV yoming ..........................
Total ----------------·--------California --------·--------------·
Total u. S ................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

---··----------515.95
23.2S

577.50
10.00
515.95
23.25

..................

---··----·-·-··*

7.00
2.00
.58
20.00

30.00
50.00
60.00
30.00
25.00
291.50
2.00
28.35

30.00
50.00
67.00
32.00
25.58
311.50
2.00
28.35

$610.53
381.53

$6,232.00
2,671.28

155.00
10.00

422.50

602.52
11.00
157.05
3.00
50.00
15.00
65.00
81.00
32.00
37.47
424.82
2.00
28.35

--$6,842.53
3,052.81

4,142.26

-----

---$992.03

$ 9,065.33

$8,90328

$9,895.34

$13.207.59

DIMITTED.
Received. Disbursed.

California ..............................................................................
Michigan ................................................................................
Nevada ...............................................................................
Australia ............................................................................... .
Nova Scotia ......................................................................... .
Scotland ................................................................................
Total ..............................................................................
Lodge 11nknown ................................................................. .

Received

Disburse-

Lodges.

Total.

111e11ts.

$............
British Columbia
20.00
Canada ----·------------···---------England ---·-----··----------------Hungary ------- -----. ---.--- - -".
Ireland ____________________________ .. ,.
20.00
1\:fexico -- -.--------- ---- ---- -- ---.. ..
5.00
New South Wales ..........

$ 37.00
40.0IJ
--- ----.-... -- ....

$ 37.00
60.00

Kew Zealand
:\cw Rrnnswick ..............
Scotland --·-··-·-···-·--------------

--------------------------- --41.10

Total -····-··--·-----------·-···-

$86.10

Received from
lndi7. iduals.

Jurisdiction-

1

"

·-----------------------------20.00
5.00

"

~

I

. _______________

~

27.50

68.60

----

----

$104 50

$190.60

$ 38.35
60.00
61.70
10.00
71.00
285.00
5.00
5.00
255.20
99.00
$890.25

$5.00

$1,405.59
360.00

During the year the following Brethren have been buried with
Masonic honors or their remains shipped according to the wishes of
the families :

1914
1 Julius Lesser ........................ Hope No.
Cal.
12 \Villiam James Dunn ......... Winnedmnah No. 287 ............. Bishop, Cal.
19 Paul Eugene Wolff .............Duke of Manchester No. 76...Melhourne, Aus.
Oct. 11 Frank G. Kahn .....................West Gate No. 335 ................... Los Angeles, Cal.
29 Charles E. L. Bryant.......... Ely No. 29.................................. Ely, Nev.
Nov. 18 Stephen O'Connor .............. Rockford No. 102.....................Rockford, Ill.
25 Theodore F. Keay ............... Carson No. L ........................... Carson, Nev.
Isaac KowalskL. .....Vitruvius No. 145 .....................Bloomfield, Cal.
Dec. 1
5 Felix Grundy HaiL ........... Plumas No. 60...........................Quincy, Cal.
18 Robt. Erp. Williams ........... Hawthorne No. llL.............. Portland, Ore.
18 Walter
ScholL ....... Marshall No. 39........................Lynchburg, Va.
29 Jules Klein ............................Lompoc No. 262. ..................... Lompoc, Cal.
1915
Jan.
3 James M. Beauchamp ......... Marion No. 35 .......................... .Indianapolis, Ind.
8 John G. BarnetL ................ Sterling No. 817....................... Brooklyn, N. Y.
Feb. 7 Jacob BatL. ..........................Champoeg No. 27 ..................... Aurora, Ore.
12 Frederick Frolich ................Weber No.
Utah
13 Wm. Michael Cavano ........Tehachapi No. 313 ................. Tehachapi, Cal.
21 Benjamin Frank Case ........ Evangelist No. 600................... New York
25 John Frederick Erzinger...Austin No. 850..........................Chicago, Ill.
Mch. 4 Joseph Leo Baloun ............. Monterey No. 13 .......................Monterey, Mexico
14 Alexander Rheinstein ........Arizona No. 2............................ Phoenix, Arizona
Apr.
3 Joseph Leverton .................. King Solomon's No. 9............. Helena, l\font.
9 Herman Noel Dickinson ... Basin No. 60 .............................. Basin, Mont.
12 James Pringle McOmie .....Ely No. 29.................................. Ely, Nev.
Sept.

1''0REIGN.

$5.00

$835.00
143.95
5.00
166.64
240.00
15.00

l'l~UC1£1'1DINUS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OF '1'111£

.l\fay

12 Samuel Henry finley ........ Frien<lship No. 21V................. San Jose, Cal.
13 Sigmund Laden ...................Trilnminar No.
N. J.
22 Geo. \Vashington Harvey.Hiram No. 43 ........................... Eldorado, Cal.
22 Frederick R. HartelL. ....... Union No. 7.............................. Denver, Colo.
26 Lewis vV. Hollingsworth ..K atoma No. 64 .........................Folsom, Cal.
26 George E. Pepper ................ Trinity No. 208 ......................... Davenport, Ia.
28 Luigi Benussi .......................Mariners No. 249 ..................... Livcrpool, England
June· 16 Richard Ellis Owen ............ Carquinez No. 337....................Crockett, Cal.
19 William A. Douglas ........... Anahuac No. 3.......................... Mexico City
24 Joseph Saunders ................• Alisal No. 321.. ..........................Pleasanton, Cal.
J11ly
8 John Yablonsky ...................Oak Grove No. 215 .................. Alameda, Cal.
14 Ralph Emmons \ValkeL ...vVo ;dburn No. 106.................. Woodburn, Ore.
20 Chas. Truman Andrews ....Hartley No. 199........................ Lakeport, Cal.
22 Huds0!1 Sheldon ................ ]icn No.
:\fich.
Aug. 13 James M. Thompson .......... St. John's No. 35 ....................... Cayuga, Can.
20 Frank A. Bowman .............. Henrv Clay No. 95 ................... Sutkt Creek. Cal.
Total, 40.
.
Respectfully submitted,
\Vru.1.\ M E. \Vooll.
Chairman.

REPORT

L1w Brrno::._.

OF THE .l\JASONlC E.l\lPLOYMENT
OF SAN FRANCISCO.

Secretary.

BURE,\U

The Masonic Employment Bureau of San Francisco takes this opportunity of commending the good work which has been done by the
number of Masons who have taken an active interest and greatly
assisted us in this most important branch of constructive Masonry,
and of expressing to them our sincere gratitude.
Although the past year has been one of tense business conditions,
hy the aid and interest displayed by enthusiastic and consistent friends,
ihe number of positions secured shows an increase of 50 per cent over
last year, and we are proud to record greater accomplishments than
similar bureaus in the larger cities; nor should the good moral effect,
aside from the material aspect, be lost sight of, for making a Brother
self-supporting and self-respecting ought to appeal to every Mason.
We also take this opportunity of thanking the M:. w:. Grand
Master, Benjamin F. Bledsoe, for the timely aid given all the Employment Bureaus in the State by the circular letter addressed to the
various Lodges last January, calling attention to the work of the Employment Bureaus, which greatly assisted us, not only by responses from
the city, hut also by a great many from the country.

;)(j!)

i\ 1otal m1111ber of 2,172 applications for positions were receivl'd
from l\Iaster Masons, their widows and children, and positions were
secured as follows:
Lodges
Lodges
Lodges
of San
of
of other
Francisco. California. l11risdictio11s.

Placed in permanent positions ......
Placed in temporary positions ......
Applications on hand ......................
Applications withdrawn ................
Total ·········--·

.

-... -- ... -.. -- . ·~. ~

302

Total.

492
80
103
416

1,()90
139

156
100

296
21
54
114

596

485

1,091

2,172

38

313

630

R1£0:JPTS.

Balance 011 han<l August 31, 1914............... .
$ 98.37
Ishun Te1nple ....................................................................... .
180.00
San Francisco Bodies, A. & A. S. R. ...........................
120.00
California Bodies, A. & A. S. R. .....................................
120.00
California Commandery .:\1" o. !.. ..................................... .
120.00
Golden Gate Commandcry No. 16 ................................. .
120.00
San Francisco Commandery No. 41.. ............................. .
60.00
California Chapter. R. A. ::\L .......................................... .
120.00
Mission Chapter, R. A. 1vL ......................................... .
110.00
San Francisco Chapter, R. A. M ......................................
80.00
A. E. 0. Sciots ................................................................... .
60.00
Masonic Board of Relief
770.00
Total receipts .............................................................. .

$1,958.37

DISBURSEMENTS.

Salaries .................................................................................... $1,280.00
Rent .................................................... ..........................
180.00
Office furniture ....................................................................
51.55
Printing ..................................................................................
77.00
Telephone ..............................................................................
120.00
and stationery .................................................... .
48.00
Carfares, etc. ........................................................................
66.50
Total disbursements ................................................... .

1,823.05

Balance hand September 1, 1915........................................................ $ 135.32
Respectfully submitted,
\VJLLJAM

H. .l\hTCHELL,
Secretary.

President.

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOitNIA

BOXOLULU BOARD OF RELIEF.

371

OAKLAI'\D BOARD OF RELIEF.

To the JI.'. TV.'. Grand LodJZ;c o/ Cali/or11ia:

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

The :'.\lasonic Board of Relief of the City of Honolulu herewith
presents the following report of its work covering the period of its
inauguration 011 January I, 1915, to August 31, 1915, inclusive.
l\Iost of the work has been of a preliminary nature, although considerable was done in securing employment for needy brethren.

The Masonic Board of Rclid of Oakland herewith begs lean~ to
present its report for the year beginning September 3, 1914, and terminating August 31, 191S.
The Board is composed of the Masters and vVardcns of the contributing Lodges hereinafter named.
The officers elected to serve until the first Wednesday m January,

RECEIPTS.

1916, are as follows:

Hawaiian Lodge Ko. 21. F. & A. :'.\L. ...................................... $149.28
Oceanic Lodge Xo. 371, F. & A. :M.....................................

64.32
Honolulu Lodge No. 409, F. & ,\. 1\1......................................... 79.20
Refunded hy Individual ...... ........................ ...... ......................... 20.00
--$312.80
fllSBCRSF.~tENTS.

Advance to Individual .................................................................$ 20.00
Expense-Stationery, etc. ....................................................... ....

Daniel \V. Pratt, Chairman;
Charles C. Eien. Treasmer;
Robert G. Evans, Secretary.
The relief expenditure in this District is constantly increasing-.
Unfortunately, the necessity for careful investigation is increasing e\·~n
more rapidly. \Ve are of the opinion that were a more svstematic
method of punishment adopted throughout the various jurisdictions
the fraternity would be henefited thereby.

35.50
--$SS.SO

RltCEJP1'S.

Live Oak Lodge f\o.
Balance on hand .................. .

$2S7.30
C. F.

JENKINS,

P. l\L,
Secretary.

SAX JOSE BOARD OF RELIEF.

To the JI.'. TV.'. Grand Lodge of Cali/ornia:

Oakland Lodge N:o.

338.90

Brooklyn Lodge No. '-'--·J ............................................................... 218.9S
Alcatraz Lodge No. "" ..,. ................................................................. 226.00
Fruitvale Lodge No.
150.80
Sequoia Lodge No.
286.60
Bay View Lodge No.
108.3S
Y crba Buena Lodge No.
106.70
Standard Lodge No.
46.10

Receipts and disbursements from December 1. 1914, to October

1. 1915:

Total receipts .............................................................. ,, ....................... $739.77
1)islmrsements ............................................................................................... 679.63
llalance 011 hand

:\. B. LANGFORD,
President.

60.14

L. l\t SIMONSI\N,
Secretary.

Refunded by Lodges in California ................................ $1,8S4.47
Refunded by other U. S. J urisclictions ............................ 1,843.00
Refunded hy individuals .................................................... Sl0.3S
Grand Lodge account St. Helena Lodge )Jo. 93........ 116.00
Aah111es Temple A. A. 0. :M.
36S.OO

l nterest from hanks ............ ...................... .........................
1'ot;i.] receipts ................................................................ .
Balance on hand September 2,

Total rcc(·ipts and balance ....................................... .

•

$1.909.55

Total from contributing Lodges ................................

Balance on hand ...................................................................................... $139.77
Receipts from Lodges other than San
600.00

207.32

4.896.14
$6,80S.69
5,329.77
$12,lJS.46

PROCEEDINGS OF THI<J

Jurisdiction.

Received from
I 11dividuals.
Lodges.

For California Lodges ........................................................... .p..... ,.J,
For other U. S. Junsdictions .......................................... 2.561.37
For Foreign Jurisdictions ................................................. . 178.00

:Nevada ........................

For dimitted cases .......................... -······················· ·········

Oregon

$5.916.23

93.70

$1.843.00
1.970.47

$2,087.65
2,064.17

$2,561.37
2,572.34

Total. U. S ........... $338 ..35

$3.813.47

$4.151.82

$5.133.71

Rccein:d
Total.

Disburse-

13.50

Pennsylvania ........... .

1,105.01
..... ·····································································.P

7,021.24
5.114.22

Dis1:Alieme1fts.

3.00
57.50
159.00
51.00

Ohio ..............................
South Dakota ........... .

T< ital expenses

Total.
61.50
15.00
105.00
98.50
400.00
3.00
57.50
174.00
51.00

30.00

1·exas ...................... .

15.00

\Vashingtou
\Visconsin ................ .

Total .................... $244.65
California ... ................

44.00
15.00
75.00

Received

28.00
20.00
276.25
5.00
103.50
400.00
2.00
164.09
353.93
50.00

New York

Office equipment

Balance on hand

17.50

New l'vf exico

604.52

Total relief .... ... ..... ........
·················
Rrnt. c;alary and incidentalc; --·····--··-·--···································'+' 923.75
76.09
Telephone and tdegraph
105.17

Total <lislm rs cm en ts

373

GRAND LODGE 01<' CAUFORNIA

85.00
4()0.00

United States.

Jurisdiction.

Received from
Lodges.
1 mlividuals.

$

Colorado
Ceorgia

3.15
39.00
Illinois -- ------·-··-----·--·-10.00
lmliana
20.00
Iowa
30.75
Kansas
Kentucky
-----··-·--------- 24.70

Idaho

·····-------····

~

...$

"

Louisiana

;\Iaine ---------:\lassachusetts
;\Iichigan

15.00
5.00

77.00
20.00
265.00
75.00
78.00
40.50
60.00
40.00
25.00
121.00
64.00

Received
Total.

$

77.00
20.00
268.15
114.00
88.00
20.00
71.25
84.70
40.00
25.00
136.00
69.00

\Iinne;;ota
\Tis;;issippi
;\f j SSOll ri
\[ontan~1

:\ chraska

2.00
10.00
9.05

12.00
30.00
46.CO

14.00
40.00
55.05

Foreign.

DisbursenH:nts.

$

93.50
20.00
243.15
103.80
85.50
57.00
90.25
62.20
31.00
25.00
114.00
96.00
10.00
2.CO
17.00
26.00
82.20

Jurisdiction.

Receh·ed from
Lodges.
Individuals.

ments.

2.00

$ 150.lX>
2.00

2.50

2.50

2.00
20.00
2.50
149.50
-4.00

... $154.50

$154.50

$178.00

$17.50

$17.50

$25.00
5.00
574.52

Total ..................$ 17.50

$ 17.50

$604.52

British Columbia ...... $150.00
Canada .............. .........
England ..................... .
Ireland ....................... .

Nova Scotia ............. .
Scotland ............. ........
Total

$

Dimitted:
Illinois .............. .
Kentucky

Nevada

GUAND LODGl.J 01•' CALlFOHNL\
PH.OCBBDINGS OF THB

:\7 4

During the period covered by this report, the following named
brethren have been bnried with Masonic Honors, under the auspices

REPORT OF THE 1\IASOl\IC EMPLOY.l\IENT BUREAU
·
OF OAKLAND.

of this Board:

Year ending September 1, 1915.

1914
Oct. 10-Clarence i\I. Ayers, Liberty No. 299, Santa Clara, Cal.

President-F. 'vV. \:Vetmore.
Vice-President-L. S. Griswold.

Oct. 23-E. A. Stevens, Ashler No. 25, Grand Island, Keb.

Treasurer-L. L. Gummow.
Secrctary-C. L. Foster.

2-W. H. H. Miller, Friend No. 352, Ozark, Mo.

:\o\·.

Dl'c. 11-J. A. Miller, Lan<ler No. 8, Austin, Nev.

Dec. 16-Richard L. l\farsh, Landmark Ko. 422, Chicago, Ill.

1915

5- \V m. T. Hastings, Star of Bethlehem, Chelsea, 1\f ass.
Jan. 30-(~co. E. Covington, Pleasant Ko. 128, Pleasantville, Iowa.

Office at Rooms 361-62 Blake Building, corner of Twelfth and vVashington Streets, Oakland, California. Office hours
from 1 to 5 p. 111. Telephone, Oaklaml 335.

Jan.

Applications on file September 1, 1914-·-····---··-·-·······-- -------··------------··---· 163

Feh. 10-Amos E. Zehr, Meridian Sun No. 76, La Grange, Ind.

Applicants registered during year ··----··----······------·····
584
Positions secured ............................................................·::::::··-····-··············· 578
Applications on file September 1, 1915 ................................ ::::·················· 257

Feh. 23-\:Valter S. Kelly, Rabhoni, Dorchester, Mass.
::\fch. 12-Jno. T. Campbell, Hawaiian No. 21, Honolulu, T. H.

1fch. 15-.\ndrcw D. Keys, lonic No. 90, Seattle, \Vash.
::\lch. 18-John D. Wheelock, Yuba ::\ o. 39, Marysville, Cal.
::\kh. 24-Wm. H. Coffey, Virginia No. 3, Virginia City, Nev.
c\pr. 14--Robt. E. McCracken, Lone Tree No. 36, Central City, :\eh.

~day 18-J. l\L Collins, Albert Pike No. 117, Denver, Colo.
~fay 19-11 er be rt N. Smith, Friendship Ko. 208, Haven, Kan.
::\lay 26-\Vm. Himmelsbach. l\fonterey Nn. 117, Monterey, Cal.
J1ml' :I-Judson J. Petty, Devotion No. 76, Ipswich, So. Dale
J unc 23-Lycurgus C. Williams, l\Iancos 1\ o. 100, Mancos, Colo.
July 2-Sig. Gensbcrger, Butte No. 22, Butte, £\font.
July 23-Leslie S. Orcutt, Friendship No. 210, San Jose. Cal.
.\ug. 16-Thos. S. Harrison, George ·washington No. 9, St. Louis, Mo.
c\ug. 31-William l\kl\lanus, Anvil No. 140, Nome, Alaska.

Total 23.
D,\Nll£L

\V. P1uTT,
Chairman.

Respectfully submitted,
RonERT G. EvANS,
Secretary.

1

Applications on file who have received positions and afte;~~~- :~---1~·~-~
registered ......................................................................................................

94

Number of days work at odd jobs ................................................................ 338
DISBURSEMENTS.

Salary of the Secretary ................................................................................ :i;l.,L8U.UU
207.50
133.81

Rent and Janitor service
Telephone and Telegrap~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::········--·--·Street car, ferry and ~liscellaneous
........................... .
Printing, Postage and Office
................................................... .

148.45
53.52

Total
$3.16

Cost per position secured

. The expense of the Bureau is maintained by voluntarv contribution
· o f 272c
r/
.
f of a per capita
per
month from all the Masonic
Bodies
0
Oakland and the three Blue Lodges of Berkeley, Calif.
.
Respectfully submitted,

C. L. FosTER,
Secretary.

ii

:376

GHAND LODGHJ OF CALIFORNIA

S:\X DIEGO BO,\RD OF RELIEF.

REPORT OF THE :\L\SOXfC E:\fPLOYl\IE~T Hl'REAP
OF SA~ DIEGO

From Sepkmhcr 1. 1914, to August 31. 1915.

To the JI:.

377

w:. Grand I,odgc of California:

From June 10, 1915, to October. 1915.

IU'.CEll"fS.

nalance Oil hand September 1, 1914..................... . ....$1.421.23
From local Lodges
981.55

Work offered

1''rom CraJJd Lodg<.:
1.500.m
From lntcre;,t
16.50
From Emp\oym<:nt littrean
70.00
Rcfurnled hy California ~I a sons .......................... ..
92.10
Refomkd hy Lodgl·,; in Fnitcd States ........... .
1.182.20
Refunded hy foreign Lntlges
240.35
Refnnded hy inc\i\·idual l\f asons ..................................... .
125.00
1.\.dnnded for funerals a(l\·anced
396.58
Rdnnded ior widows am! orphans ..
365.24
Rdnndec\ for wives and danghtcrs ......
42.00
Refunckd hy dimitted ::\f asons
48.00

Other Juris.

Total

30
22
15

116

Permanent jobs ··········-·································
Permanent johs paying $25 to $50 mo ...

9

86
62
42
20

Permanent jobs paying $60 to $100 mo.

9

15

Work accepted
Temporary jobs ........... ..............................

84
57
29
5
24

5

RECElP'l'S.

Al Bahr Temple, San

_,,'-~"-··············--············--··-·······-·····--·······--············o.fl

S. D. Corn. K. T. ?\ o.

lllSlllJRSE:\lENTS.

.\d\'anced to California :\Jasons ...... '··--·· ...................... .
.\drnnced to ~lasons other jurisdictions ... .
.\<h·anced to ::\lasons foreign jurisdictions
.\d\'anced to T\Tasons individually -~ ~------·------··--·--.
.\d,·aneed to ::\Jasons climitted
. \(h-anced for funerals of Masons
.\d\·anced for widov,·s and orphans of ::\Iasons ......... .
:\<!Yancecl for win:s and dat1ghters of l\Tasons .......... ..

San Diego

$ 101.35
2,0l)9.74
252.27
382.50
55.00
530.61
841.86
320.00

l\XPENSE:'i.

A. & A. S. Rite, San
Masonic Board of Relief. San Diego

$166.85

Salaries ............. ······················-······

.......... $160.00

Printing ..................................................................................... .
Car fare

3.50
3.35

Salary of Secretary ··--··········--·····-················· .......... $534.79

and Telephone ... ..................................

90.77

$166.85

Postage and car fare ................................. .
56.26
Printing and Stationery ...................... ············-··· 34.25
Office Rent
110.00
Furniture
86.85
1ncidental minor expe1·se;:; .
...................... 61.75
Charil v ....................................................................... 241.72

Emplo~\·mrnt

Bureau Expenses ........................ " .. 136.85

TDtal dislmrsenwnts
Lalance on ha11d in hank and office .\ug. 31, 1915

l'. \Vo1111\l:\N Po'1"l'l-'.R.
Secretary.

30.00
15.00
60.00
61.85

C. \VonD'.\l .\N Po'f'l'El{,
Secretary.

1,353.24
$5.846.57
634.18

$6,480.75 $6.480.75
D. A. LoEUENSTEIN,
President.

Ashlar Lodge '.\o. 306 presented a claim for $2.4S. account of dues overpaid in 1914. Referred to the Committee
on Finance.
Brother Swing of El Centro Lodge >; o. 384 introduce<l
the following. which was referred to the Committee on
Finance:
. Resolved. That the Grand Lodge of California loan to the ,\lasonic
Building Association of El Centro the sum of five thousand dollars.
and the Grand Officers of said Grand Lodge arc hereby authorized

PIWCEEDlNGS OF THE

GHANlJ LOlJGJ<; 011' CALlFOltNlA

to pay said sum to the said :Masonic Building Association of El Centro,
upon receiving the promissory note of said Association for the said sum
of 11,,c thousand dollars, payable on or before six years a ftcr date, bearing interest at the rate of six per cent per annum, payable annually,
together with the notes of individual stockholders of said Association
aggregating the sum of five thousand fi,·e hundred dollars, as collateral
security.

some effect to them, and they scn·e only to protect ~lasonry and
l\1asons in this jurisdiction. Of course \VC concede just as much to
other Masonic jurisdictions in this respect as we claim ourselves.

378

REPORT OF JURISPRUDENCE CO:\nIITTEE.
Past Grand :\laster Angellotti, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported as follows:
To the Af. ·. W. ·. Gra11d Lodge of Cal1fornia:
At the last Communication there was referred to us a question
of the status of a member of one of the subordinate Lodges of this
iurisdiction, who, while rcs:ding within the jurisdiction of Churchi]J
Lodge No. 26 of Fallon, Nevada. was, by the latter Lodge, on conviction therein of unmasonic conduct, suspended from all the rights
and pri,·ilegcs of 1\Iasonry. The N eva<la Lodge certified the record
of the proceedings to our California Lodge. Our Lodge thereupon.
with such record as its only basis and without any trial, entered a
judgment of suspension against the brother. Grand Master Murphey
held, and this l.raml Lodge confirming his ruling also held, that our
Lodge should not have entered any such judgment, for the reason
that if the Nevada Lodge judgment ipso facto operated to deprive
the brother of his Masonic standing here, no judgment of suspension
was essential in our Lodge; and if it did not have that effect. he could
not he deprived of his Masonic standing in this State except by charges
here preferred and a trial thereon.
'Ne expressed no opinion as to whether the Nevada judgment did
have the effect of suspending the brother in this State, and consideration of that question was deferred to this Communication.
It seems very clear to us that in the absence of some provision
of our own law on the subject, the Nevada judgment cannot be given
any effect in California. It is elementary Masonic doctrine that each
l\Tasonic jurisdiction is, within its borders, absolutely supreme and
independent, subject in no way to the constitution, laws or judgments
of any other l.rand Lodge, except in so far as it chooses to make
itself so. \Ve <ln cbim the right to deprive Masons of other jurisdic1illllS rc,;iding in this State of their 1\fasonic standing for umnasonic
c()mluct. lint \\'" cannot claim fnr our judgments in such cases any
extra-territorial effect. Our judgments are operative only within our
n\\·n juri:~dictiou, unless other jurisdictions by positive enactment give

379

At the same time we believe our law should be such that some
effect should be here given to the judgment of another recognized
Masonic j urisdictio:1 that one of our numbers resident therein has been
guilty of unmasonic conduct. With such a judgment before us, the
presumption is that the conclusion of our sister jurisdiction is correct,
and that the brother is guilty of the offense of which he was convicted. In such cases we should at once make investigation as to his
conduct with a view to determining whether he has been guilty of
11nmasonic conduct,, and we should be willing to accept the record of his
conviction elsewhere as pvi111a lac1'c evidence of his guilt of the offense
charged against him. \Ve owe that much not only to the other jurisdiction but also to ourselves. Further we do not cleem it advisable
to legislate at this time.
We therefore recommend the adoption of the follo,ving
AMENDMEN'r ·ro OUR CONsTJTUTJON,

1o \vit:

Amencl section 192 by adding at the end thei;eof the following:
\Vhenever it shall appear by the record of conviction frnm
another Masonic jurisdiction rec()gnized by us that a member
of one of oiu Lodges resident in such jurisdiction has been
suspended or c·xpelled for unmasonic conduct in such jurisdiction while a resident thereof. it shall be the duty of the
Junior Warden of the· Lodge in this jurisdiction of which he
is a member to prefer charges against him for the acts and
conduct alleg~d in the charges preferred in the foreign j urisdiction and of which he was there convicted, and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had as in ordinary cases; provided
that the record of conviction of the foreign jurisdiction shall
be received on the trial as prinia f acie evidence of the guilt of
the brother of such acts ancl conduct.
FRANK MARJON ANGET.LOTTJ,

WM.

L. PATTON,
S. WELLS,

DAN,\

REJD WELLER,

CHAS.

J. D. MURPHEY,
Committee on J urispruclence.

The recommendation was concnrrecl in ancl the section
amended by unanimous vote.

:J80

PHOCE!iJDINGR OF THE

To the .1J:. //":. Graud Lodge of' California:
The matlcr of Brotlwr J. '.\; P;tscoe, s11spc1Hkd by Rising Star
Lodge >: c., ~3 of F01-.:st 11 ill i11 1901, rpon the cl; 1 im of the brother
that h~· was illegally sus1'emkd for 11011-payment of dues, or at least
that he shouid he restor,_·d to membership witho11t hci11g required t11
pa_1· arrearages of dues, was discussed by the Gram! :\faster in hi;-;
amrnal address in the yc;tr 1909 (Proceedings 1909. p. 23 l. TIL' Grand
:\laskr said that '.he information he had recein·d was meager and
uncertain, and recommended th;1t Rising Star Lodge k· directed to
report the facts folly to the incoming Grand ::\L~tcr. •·r tli<: ln-;pcrlur
of the proper l\lasonic District. This portion of the Cram) '.\Taste~·,
Address appears to ha\T been referred, on the recommendation fJt til.:
Committee on Grand 1\1astc:r's Address, to this Committee.
(Proceedings 1909. p. 141 ). Xo report has n·er been made thereon by the
Committee. That the matter was so referred has heretofore escaped
the notice of this Committee. and it has only now hccn brought to
ils attentinn hy reaso11 of inquin nccntly made of the Grand Secretary on the part of friends of Brother PasCl)C, and an inn·stigation hy
the Grand Secretary of tlie record of proceedings.
The matter is one th;it should not h;1n: heen referred to this Committee, tor the p; 1pers sl'hmitted do not furnish sufficient information
l'pon which to linally decide thl' Cllllt roycrsy. \Ve do think. hO\vever.
that e110ugl1 is shown th;-reb_,. lo warrant a careful i1ll'estigatio11, and
we recommend. as was suhstanti;dly n:commendcd hy Grand Master
Lawler in 1909, that the matter he referred to the incoming Grand
,.\I aster and the 1nspector of the District in which Rising Star Lodge
b loctll'd, for foll investigation a11cl for such subsequent action on
the part ;if the Crand '.\htSter as he may deem proper.
0

FRAX K

::\1 ARJON ANGELLO'l'TJ,

CH.\S.

L. PAT'l'ON,

w~c

S. WELLS,

DANA

RETD \VELLER,

J. D. 1\luRPHEY,
Committee on J nrisprudence.

The report wa~ adopted.

'/'11 tit,· .lf. '. II : . Gr<111d Lodp,c of Ctrlifornia:
Your Cornrnittl'e 011 Juri~prndl'nce dcsirec; to thank till' Cran,1
,.\faster for his l'omtesy in submitting to the chairman of this C()rnmit tee a copy of his decisions, some time prior to the commenceml'nt
nf the Co111111unicatio11. This action is especially appreciated hy the
cli;iirman
the Committee in vie\v of his inability on account of
',fJicial business to he personally present during the whole of the Com-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

381

nn111icatio11. In ,·ie\~· of the action of the Grand Master he has been
able to give proper consideration to the rulings of the Grand .J.1aster
and prepare this report thereon.
The Grand .:\laster reports twcuty-threc decisions. The~e indicate,
as was to he expected. the most careful consid<:'ration on the part of
the Grand :;\1 aster of the various questions submitted to him for
decisiq1i. As was also to he expected, the decisions rendered arc generally correct, i11 Yiew of our law, and need little comment at our
hands.
As to decisions 11umhtTcd as follows: 3, 4. 5. 6, 7. 9, 10. 12, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20. 21 and 22, the conclusion of the Grand l\Jastcr was
in each case :1hsolmcly correct in view of our law, and none of such
decisions requires any comment whatcH'r.
\Ve rccommeud that each of said decisions he appron'd by this
Grand Lodge.
DECJSION Xo. 1.-Decisio11 Xo. 1, we think. presents a mling on a.
question of propriety rather than one of Masonic law. \Ve think that
the remarks 0f the Grand Maste1· in relation thereto are eminentlv
proper, and worthy of serious consicll'ration bv cverv member of th~
Craft. There was on the part of the Past Master offi-ciating as Master
no violation of any law or regulation of Masonry. \Ve think that the
action of the Grand .:\laster in refusing to order any action against the
or any oiher ruling than that made, was corn'ct.

vV c recomn;encl that the same Le apprO\·ed.
DECISION Xo. 2.-Dccision l\o. 2 is unquestionablv correct.
Xo
person who openly drcla:-es his intention of violating- any provision
of our Constitution should be initiated. \Vhat the decision means
is that, in view, of the pro,·isions of our Constitetion, the ]\faster.

when made cognizant of the intentions
the candidate. should refuse
to initiate him, hirnsc·I f ohjccti11g to such initiation. and announcing,
as stated in the de~'.ision, that objection to the initiation of the camlidate had been made.

\Ve recommend that the decision be approved.
Dr-:c1s10N ?\o. 8.-. \s to decision ?\ o. 8, the conclusion of the
Grand l\Iaster that such a Board of Relief as was suggested could
have no official sanction from, or recognition hy the Grand Lodge,
a.nd could not hope Lo receive any donations therefrom. was unquestionably corn·d. l t i:> wit contemplated hy our Constitution that the
control of Lodge fmids for charitable purposes should be vested in
any other place tku1 i11 the ;,11liordi11atc l,rnl~e. ()r i11 s11d1 noanls of
Relief as are rmi1,ided fur by uur Constitution.
\Ve, arc not. lHJWenT. clispnscd to concur in the statement of the
Grand Master that "There would seem to he no legal objection to
your working out your problems
relief along the lines you

382

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PHOCEEDINGS OF TH~

have indicated, if you should so desire." vVe are of the op1111011 that a
s11borclinatc Lodge cannot legally contribute to any such Board of Relief.

vVe recommend that the action of the Grand Master 111 this matter be approved.
Respectfully submitted,

In all other respects we hclieve that the decision of the Grand
.:\laster should be approved, and so recommend.

FRANK :\L\RION AN(:f,J.LO'!"l'I.
CHAS.

vVe recommend that in all other respects the decision be approved.
DF.crs10N No. lJ.-What was said by the Grand Master in answer111g the queries contained in Decision 13 was strictly in accord with

our previous decisions. Tf it be thought that some of the previous
decisions are too liberal in their statement of the rights of daughters
of l\Iaster l\bsons, nevertheless they constitute the settled law in this
jurisdiction, ancl the Crand 1\f aster properly followecl such settled law.
1f any change in this respect is desired it must he accomplished hy legislation.
\Ve recommend that the decision of the Grand Master he approved.
Dr-:c1s10N No. 23.-As to what is said in this decision, of course
the action of the Grand l\Iastcr in observing the previous ruling of
Grand Master ::\I urphcy, which ruling was approved hy the Grand
Lodge, was correct and must be appro,·ed. It is the duty of the Grand
:1\f aster to obsen·e and to follmv the previous rulings of the Grand
Lodge. In view of wh;1t is said by the Grand Master as to his views
of the correctness of the previous decision, we deem it proper to say
that, notwithstanding the able argument made by the Grand Master
in support of a contrary view, we are still of the opinion that the
ruling of G:-ancl Master :\1 urphey was correct. \Ve can read the provisions of our Constitution on the subject discussed in no other way
than as implying a clear intent that no one should be elected to office
in a Masonic Lodge except with the expressed approval of a majority
nf the members present who are qnaliflecl to participate in the election.
\;\Te see no particular reaso11 fur doubting the good policy of such a
law.

L. PATTON,

WM. S. WELLS,

DEc1srnN Ko. 11.-As to decision No. 11. All that is said hy the

Crancl -:\faster down to the last sentence is fully sustained by provisions of our law. We believe, however. that the last sentence, to wit:
"It would be extremely ill advised for a l\Iaster to insist upon the
admission of a visitor merely because such visitor wanted to visit, if
his presence was at all clmoxious to a member," should not be apprond as a rule of law. As indicated in the preceding portions of
the decision, our law leaves the question as to whether there is good
and valid ground to rduse admission to a visitor to the sound sense
;rnd discretion of the Master, his de1:ision thereon being conclusi,·e.
The design of the law was to lea\·e the matter solely to him, he being
governed by his own view of wh~it was best under the circumstances.
\Ve think 1t inexpedient for the Grand Lodge to attempt to lay down
any rules for his guidance in such matters.

383

DANA RErn WE1.u:R.

J. D. MURPHEY,
Committee on Jurisprudence.

The entire report was adopted.

l\IASONIC TEl\IPLE ASSOCIATIO:\.
Past Grand l\faster \Villiam P. Filmer, Vice-President
uf the Masonic Temple Association, presented the followinO' re1)ort which was referred to the Committee on Finance:
b

'

To THE MosT WoRSHJPfUL GRAND LoDGE oF CALIIIORNL\:
1The Board of Directors of the Masonic Temple Association of California in accordance with its annual custom, presents herewith a full
and c~mplete statement of its financial transactions from the date of
its last report to the Grand Lodge, September 1, 1914, to September
1, 1915.
A complete financial statement of the receipts and expenditures
from September 1, 1908, to September 1. 1914, was presented at the
last communication of the Grand Lodge and is to be found in the Grand
Lodge Proceedings of the year 1914 (see pages 58-65) and is therefore
omitted in our present report.
A study at this time of the financial condition of our Temple reveals
again the urgent necessity of the assistance pledged by the Grand L~dge
in the years that have passed. The promised relief by _the. resolut1~ns
adopted by the Grand Lodge at its last annual commumcation, providing for a bond issue, has proven ineffectual. All Blue Lodges, all
Chapters of Royal Arch Masons, all Councils of Royal and Select Masters, all Commanderies of Knights Templar and all Chapters of Eastern
Star in the jurisdiction of California have been invited and urgec~ to
subscribe for bonds, and to this date but $43,000.00 of an authorized
bond issue of $304,000.00, the approximate present indebtedness, has
been subscribed.
This snm, $43,000.00, is not deemed by the Board of Directors to
he sufficient to warrant the issuance of bonds as contemplated by ~he
resolution and mature reflection since the adoption of the resolution
by the Grand Lodge has caused the Board to decide not to take act~o~1
on the issuance of bonds because our efforts failed to meet the spmt

PHOCI<~EDINGS OF '!'HJ<::

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the intention of the Grand Lodge. Consultations i.:vere had with
hankers and financiers of San Francisco, who refused to take bonds
because no sinking fund had been provided by the resolution.
Reviewing the records of the past we find that the Grand Lodge
urged the erection of a Temple in San Francisco and promised iL;
"unstinted aid and influence and such financial assistance as its avail~
able resources \vill permit." The erection of a Temple in the central
city of our state has greatly increased interest in the Masonic Order
not only in San Francisco, but throughout the entire jurisdiction. All
the Lodges are benefitting from its existence. It being a Temple f~r all
the Masons of the jurisdiction, all Masons should participate in the
elimination of the indebtedness upon it. This can be accomplished
without increasing the per capita tax, by the Grand Lodge subscribing
for stock in annual installments from its available funds. It was the
policy of the Grand Lodge with regard to the old Temple to invest its
surplus in the stock in the old Temple Association; why should it not
be the policy of the Grand Lodge to invest its money in the new
Temple and reap the benefit from the constantly increasing dividends
and stock value in the years to come? Should the Grand Lodge
purchase the amount of the present indebtedness it will own approximately $578,000.00 of the stock, or considerably over half of the issued
capital stock.
From sentimeut and loyalty to our Order the Grand Commanderv
of Knights Templar, the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons, th~
l\Iasonic bodies of San Francisco are heavy stockholders, and they, with
many small holdings by J\Iasonic bodies, and individual Masons, subscribed largely because the committees who visited those bodies and
urged them to subscribe for stock, represented that the Grand Lodge
was the pmver behind this most important project and was voluntarily
pledged to its financial support and we are strongly of the opinion that
their holdings should be made of value at the earliest possible moment
and this result can ensue only by the liquidation of the indebtedness
upon the Temple.
\Ve invite attention to the fact as shown by the report herewith,
that even during the past year, and with no part of the ground floor
rented, $9058.25 in dividends could have been paid if there had been
no interest charge for money borrowed.
For the information of the representatives of the Grand Lodge,
and to indicate the attitude of the Grand Lodge at the inceptive period
of the Temple and since. \Ve present excerpts from several proceedings.
which not only clearly slin\v that the Crand Loclgc, for several years
before the destructiun of the old 'l\·rnple at Post and :\lontgonwry
,;treets in 1906. desired to !mild a new Temple in Sa11 Francisco and
which also indicate the fact that the Grand Lodge pledged itself to the
ncction nf the present Temple and to the financing thereof. The policy

?.85

of the old Temple Association to invest its surplus funds in the Temple
Association is also shown.
EXCERPTS.
:\f.".W.'. Orrin S. Henderson in 1904 (page.1056) presen.ted a res~­
lution relative to the disposition hy Grand Lodge of its stock m Masomc
I !all Association and the erection of a new Temple. _Referred to
Finance Committee. Bro. Oscar Lawler (page 1114) for Fmance C~m­
mittee reported that the old Temple was inadequ~te to the reqmrements of the fraternity and recommended the appomtm~nt of. a co~1mittee of three, to act with committees of other Masonic bodi_es with
a view of acquiring a site for and the erection of a new l\fasomc Temple in San Francisco. Adopted. Grand Master Hunter recommended
the erection of a new Temple.
.
Grand Master Motley H. Flint in 1906 (page 197) recomrnendmg
that a new Temple be built at once in San Francisco and that the
revenue from sale of stock in old Association, seven Blue Lakes Bonds,
and all the cash in treasury to be used for that purpose. M." · vV: · Chas.
L. Patton (page 408) presented a report indicating that all th~ money
received by stockholders in the old Association would be put mto. ~he
new. A committee of seven was appointed to consider a proposition
to build a Temple. Committee consisted of Reuben H. Lloyd, \:Vm. P.
Filmer, Edwar~l Coleman, Chas. Schlessinger, Chas. M. Plum, Wm. P.
Jeffries and Orrin S. Henderson.
M.". w:. Orrin S. Henderson (pagt'. 467) reported that all the
stock should he owned by Grand Lodge and other Masonic bodies ''an~
under the guidance of this Grand Lodge, control and manage the same
and (page 468) $210,000.00 was subscribed.
. .
.
Bro. R. H. Lloyd in 1907 reported the orgamzat1on of the Masomc
Temple Association. At page 663 Bro. Billings moved that t~e
$210,000.00 be immediately available for purchase of stock. .A: page
719 the Finance Committee recommended the further subscription of
$15,000.00, which was adopted.
.
Bro. Benj. F. Bledsoe in 1908 (page 161) presented a resoluti?n
pledging the aid of the Grand Lodge to the Masonic T~mpl_e. Association. which was referred to Finance Committee and M. · W · · Motle7
H. Flint (page 165) from that committee cordially indor~ed the sentiments contained in the resolution and pledged the fmancial su~port of
this Grand Body to this splendid undertaking. (The resolution
lows) : "That this Grand Lodge hereby pledges to the said Masoi:1c
Temple Association its unstinted aid and influence. and such financial
assistance as its available resources will permit." This resolution was
adopted. Grand Master John D. Murphey in his ~nnual ad~r:ss, ,?ctober, 1914, called attention to the immediate necessity of devismg some
means of liquidating the outstanding indebtedness" and said: "the

fo!-

;;s6

l'HOCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

faith of this Grand Lodge is pledged to the ultimate extinguishment
of this indebtedness and this it must do."
ft may be stated that at the present time no material increase of
reH'11t1e either from halls or store rentals can be expected. The Masonic
bodies now occupying the halls are paying much higher rentals than
cn·r before am! the stores will not rent until business reaches the part
of the city upon which the Temple is erected.
\Ve helie\·e it is also important to direct attention to the fact that
if it were possihk to place the entire bond issue, it would only mean
the postponement for a period of twenty years, the solving of a problem
which should be determined at once.
The adoption of the plan proposed to the Grand Lodge by the
directors at the last annual communication seems to us to be the best
and most logical plan because:
I. It would be the fulfillment of the obligation both guaranteed
and implied by the Grand Lodge.
2. It will result in rapidly paying off the debts now bearing five
and one-half per cent and six per cent with moneys of the Grand Lodge
which will bring but four per cent in the savings banks.
3. It will result. in six or eight years or at the most ten years, in
dividends to the stockholders.
4. The Grand Lodge will then own the controlling interest in the
Temple Association stock.
It is fully expected that long before ten years shall have passed
the earnings of the Temple will have so increased that they will materially assist in reducing the indebtedness.
From the facts and arguments presented herewith we earnestly
trust that the hrethrC'n of the Grand Lodge will thoroughly realize the
obligations of the Grand Lodge in this most important matter and
that they will adopt some form of resolution that will permanently
finance the Temple and relieve the Temple Association from its present
burden. Under the bonding resolution of last year the $25,000.00
appropriated could not be paid to the Association until the bonds
were issued and was not available for use. \Ve therefore believe
that $50,000.00 should be appropriated this year. That this can be
done from the available resources of the Grand Lodge, without
increasing the present per capita tax, is amply demonstrated by the
Report of the Grand Treasurer, which shows that if this appropriation
is made there will still be a balance more than sufficient to meet all
the annual expenses of the Grand Lodge. We ~uggest the adoption of
the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge subscribe for 25,000 shares of
the capital stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California, to
be paid for as follows: $50,000.00 at this Communication of the Grand
Lodge and $25,000.00 annually hereafter.

387

GR.\ND LODG!C OF CALJFOHNlA

RECEIPTS AXD EXPENDITURES FROM SEPTEMBER 1, 1914,
TO SEPTEMBER 1, 1915
RECEIPTS
Rentals from ·l\fasonic bodies ....................................$ 24,172.71
Grand Chapter R. A. M. (subscription stock)....
2,500.00
Grand Commandery K. T. (subscription stock).. 2,500.00
Payments on subscriptions, individual Masons....
1,820.00
Crocker National Bank, account loan.................... 2,500.00
California Commandery No. 1, K. T., for stock.. 6,700.00 $ 40,192.71

DISBURSEMENTS
MAINTENANCE

Care of organs, one year ................................................."'

100.00

309.37
Insurance .......................................................... ············
Interest ............................................................................. . 16,314.94
266.47
Fuel oil ..............................................................................
158.24
Gas ............ ,........................................................................ .
1,549.92
Electricity ...... :................................................................ .
88.47
To\vels ..............................................................................
286.95
Repairs and nC'w cables for elevators ................... .
150.08
\Vater ............................................................................... .
55.06
Cleaning utensils, etc .................................................. .
141.45
Telephones ........................................................... .
48.00
Rent of piano ................................................................. .
Janitors ........................................................................... . 4,620.00
90.00
Care of elevators, one year ....................................... .
70.00
Scavenger ............................................................... .
61.23
MiscC'llaneous small bills ............................................. .
Taxes
Tax protC'st ..................................................................... .
Secretary .................................................................... .
Lan1ps ................................ ----·-----··-·-.. ··---··---·----·-------·--·--·-------....... .

Medical attendance ........................................................ ·
Printing blanks and circulars, account bonds ..... .

6,351.23
6.50
600.00
68.48
63.05
29.96

$ 31,429.40

388

GRAND LODGE: OF CALIFORNIA

PHOCEEDINUS OF THI~

BUILDING ACCOUNT

~IASU?\IC

Final payment 011 organ ____________________________ $2,600.00
~\re hi tect' s

fees____________________________________________ 2,500.00

Commander l lall decorations __ _

---- 6,700.00

I k!icit ________ _

11,800.00

$ 3,036.69
$ 43.229.40 $ 43,229.40

STATEl\IE~T SHOWL\TG PRESE~T AK:\"UAL LOSS

Cost of maintenance ___ --------------------------------------------------$
I11sura11ce ____________________ _
Interest
Taxes
.'faxes -------------------------------

8,447.36
309.37
16,314.94
6,351.23
6.50 $ 31,429.40

l ncome from rentals ____________________ _

24, 172.71

Annual loss _____________________ _

$ 7,256.69

ST.\TDrE\'T SHOWING A"\TN"UAL GAI"\'" BY ELDIT?\'.\TIO\'
OF I~TEREST CHARGE
Incornc from rentals ___________________________________________________________________ ----------$ 24, 172.71
l\f ai11tc11a11ce, less interest____________________________________________________________________

15, 114.46

Annual gain --------------------- -----·------------------------------------- ------------------$

9~058.25

PRESENT INDEBTEDNESS
5avings Union Bank of San Francisco, mortgage ____________________ ... $250,000.00
Crocker Na tio11al Bank_ _________________________________________________ ·----···--------···---- 42,500.00

11,489.00

( h1tsta11ding notes, architect's fee.........................

$303,989.00
Fraternally submitted,
MAsoNrc TEMPL.F. Assoc1A'l'10::-< oF c,,r.1FoR=-<'-'·

By WM. H. CROCKER, President.
EDWARD PEABODY, Secretary.

HO~IES

389

OF CALIFOR:\L\.

Past (;rand ~faster \\'illiam S. \Yells. President of the
Board of ~rrustees of the l\I asonic Hom es of California.
presented the annual report of the Board. and printed copies thereof being in the hands of representatives present.
the reading of the report was waived. and it was made special order for Thursday morning at 10 o'clock for consideration.
To the JI.'. n·:. Grand Lodg:c of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Hornes of California herewith submits for your consideration and approval its annual report for
the year ending September 30, 1915.
The .1\f.'. \V.'. Grand Master reappointed Edward 13. Spencer, vice
self. term expired, and the Board held its annual meeting at the office
of the Grand Secretary, on October 16. 1914. electing \Villiam S. Wells
President, Motley H. Flint Vice-President. and Elmer E. Stone Secretary. During the year the Board has held its regular and special meetings at both Decoto and San Gabriel.
The reports of the Secretary, Superintendent and Accountants arc
suhmittecl herewith. made a part of this report. and referred to for more
particular information of the financial condition of both Homes.
m:coTo HOME.
The past year has been one of momentous responsibilities for the
Trustees, two very serious propositions being before them for satisfactory adjustment. The first is one well known to the members of the
Grand Lodge, to wit: the over-crowded condition of the Horne at Decato and the necessity for providing additional accommodations.
The contract for the new dormitory building was awarded promptly,
and a large amount of the time of the Trustees has been given to the
satisfactory performance of same. 'vV e are pleased to report that the
building is now completed, and most certainly is a inormment to Masonry
in California. Your Trustees believed that it was their duty to erect
the building not for its beauty but for its safety and the health of those
whom it will shelter. As a result, there probably is no better building
in our entire stale than our newly cnmpletecl dormitory. Tt is a twoslury, f1rcproof slrttdun·. Ctllltaining lifty-011c r<Hitlls fur sleeping purpuses, as well as a large club mom 011 the llrst Hoor, for the use of the
men. 'l'lic entire building is steam heated and is equipped with a vac11um

GB.AND LODGI~ OF CALIFOH.NlA
l' ltOCKl~DlNGS UF THE

390

~kan~ng system, so that the sanitary condition of the rooms and furnishmgs is. assured. Each floor is provided with lavatories, baths, showers
and toilets ~f the most modern manufacture, and as the rooms are all
on the outside, the best of ventilation is secured, with sunlight in every
room.
Your Trustees feel that it is the duty of every member of the
Crand Lodge to examine the new building before returning to their
homes, for we confidently expect that by the time the Grand Lod e
n_,eets, everything will be in "apple pie order," and ready for

inspe~-

t10n.

We are very gla~ to say that the completion of the new dormitory
settles a problem wluch has been confronting us, for additional space
to take care of those who have applications now on file. The Trustees
have carefully reviewed and examined all applications on the Secretary's desk, and those who can be admitted have been notified throuo·h
their respective Lodges that they wi 11 be accepted at the Home
dia tely upon the adjournment of this Grand Lodge.
The new building with its furnishings will cost approximately
$50,000, and for the information of the members of the Grand Lodge,
we may state, also. that this means two years' special tax for new
fireproof buildings for the Homes were required for the enlargement

imn~e­

of that at Decoto.
The erection of the new dormitory necessitated the removal of
the cottages to the. vacant space near the Temple. All of the cottages
have been placed m excellent repair, repainted and made most comfortable for sleepin~ quarters. The barn and outbuildings, also, have
been overhauled, pamted, and improved as condition required.
. . Our dormitory having been completed, your Trustees are now
givmg their attention to the remodeling and enlaraement of the
kitchen. This step is imperative, owing to the increas: in number of
applicants for admission to the Home, a situation well understood bv
all of those familiar with the facts. This condition of course is
'
natura l , for our Grand Lodge is now some sixty-five ' years old and,
consequently, from this time on. there will be a greater demand for
acc~mmodations in our Home. To provide for the increased cost of
mamtenance, the Endowment Fund proposed is absolutelv essential
This matter, however, is a subject for a special
but is <of
such vital importance that every member of the Grand Lodae should
give it his careful attention, and co-operate to the utmost
making
the Endowment Fnnd sufficient for the needs of the Home.

committe~

i~

The hospital erectcrl hy our late Grand Treasurer, Brother Coleman, has a capacity of fifteen people, and we regret to advise that it

391

is now overcrowded. At' times it becomes necessary to use the operating rooms .for our patients. Fortunately, however, when this hospital was constructed, it was planned that at some future time, should
necessity arise, the roof could be raised and another story added.
Unquestionably, at no very distant date, this plan will have to be carried
into effect, for applications are being received constantly from Lodges
for the admission of members who are confined to their beds and unable to care for themselves. Under the regulations of the Home we
are, at this time, obliged to deny the admission of those unable to care
for themselves, and this often works a hardship on the Lodge. Especially is this true of some of the smaller Lodges. We sincerely h'bpe,
however, that the time is not far away when this matter can be
adjusted satisfactorily, and the subordinate Lodges relieved of their
heavy burdens.
The Board has been tendered the services of a member of the Craft
who is an expert landscape gardener, to rearrange the grounds at
Decoto, and we hope by another year to have a specific plan for beautifying the premises. Owing to the abundant supply of water which
we have, this can be carried into effect very easily.
During the past year many of the Lodges about the bay have
visited the home at Decoto and conferred the Degrees. This has been
much appreciated by the residents, and the Board wishes to encourage
this fraternizing of the Craft with the members at Decato. A most
cordial welcome is extended to the Lodges to keep up this good work.
M.". W .". Grand Master Benjamin F. Bledsoe has visited the
Homes during the year, and the Board has had his support and assistance in determining some of the important questions connected with
the work.
SAN GABR1EL HOME.

The second, and perhaps the most serious problem which confronted your Trustees this year was the property at San Gabriel. Perhaps no more beautiful or picturesque site could he found in Southern
California, and anyone passing in front of the San Gabriel property
and looking at the massive oaks, beautiful palms and verdant foliage,
the result of twenty-eight years of growth, cannot but be favorably impressed with the beautiful surroundings.
But the situation confronting your Trustees bore no relation to the
beauties of the place. On the property in the rear of our buildings,
a few years ago a little wash was noted, and this has developed each
year until now, during the winter, it is a raging torrent. The condition has been intensifie<l by the fact that the City of Pasadena has
diverted practically all of its storm waters into the stream which flows

390

l'HOCEEDlNGS UF 'l'HE

cleaning system, so that the sanitary condition of the rooms and furnishings is assured. Each floor is provided with lavatories, baths, showers
and toilets of the most modern manufacture, and as the rooms are all
on the outside, the best of ventilation is secured, with sunlight in every
room.
Your Trustees feel that it is the duty of every rnemher of the
Crand Lodge to examine the new building before returning to their
homes, for we confidently expect that by the time the Grand Lodge
meets, everything will be in "apple pie order," and ready for inspection.
We are very glad to say that the completion of the new dormitory
settles a problem which has been confronting us, for additional space
to take care of those who have applications now on file. The Trustees
have carefully reviewed and examined all applications on the Secretary's desk, and those who can be admitted have been notified through
their respcctivc Lodges that they will be accepted at the Home immediately upon the adjournment of this Grand Lodge.
The new building with its furnishings will cost approximately
$50,000, and for the information of the members of the Grand Lodge,
we may state. also. that this means two years' special tax for new
fireproof buildings for the Homes were required for the enlargement
of that at Decoto.
The erection of the new dormitory necessitated the removal of
the cottages to the vacant space near the Temple. All of the cottages
have been placed in excellent
repainted and made most comfortable for sleeping quarters. The barn and outbuildings, also, have
been overhauled, painted, and improved as condition required.
Our dormitory having been completed, your Trustees are now
their attention to the remodeling and enlargement of the
kitchen. This step is imperative, owing to the increase in number of
applicants for admission to the Home, a situation well understood by
all of those familiar with the facts. This condition, of course, is
natural. for our Grand Lodge is now some sixty-five years old and,
consequently, from this time on, there will be a greater demand for
accommodations in our Home. To provide for the increased cost of
maintenance, the Endowment Fund proposed is absolutely essential.
This matter, however, is a subject for a special committee, but is of
such vital importance that every member of the Grand Lodge should
give it his careful attention, and co-operate to the utmost in making
the Endowment F1111rl sufficient for the needs of the Horne.
The hospital erected by our late Grand Treasurer, Brother Coleman, has a capacity uf fifteen people, and we regret to advise that it

~··---

GB.AND LODGg OF CALIFORNIA

391

is now overcrowded. At times it becomes necessary to use the operating rooms for our ,patients. Fortunately, however, when this hospital was constructed, it was planned that at some future time, should
necessity arise, the roof could be raised and another story added.
Unquestionably, at no very distant date, this plan will have to be carried
into effect, for applications are being received constantly from Lodges
for the admission of members who are confined to their beds and unable to care for themselves. Under the regulations of the Home we
are, at this time, obliged to deny the admission of those unable to care
for themselves, and this often works a hardship on the Lodge. Especiallv is this true of some of the smaller Lodges. vVe sincerely h'bpe,
how~ver, that the time is not far away when this matter can be
adjusted satisfactorily, and the subordinate Lodges relieved of their
heavy burdens.
The Board has been tendered the services of a member of the Craft
who is an expert landscape gardener, to rearrange the grounds at
Decoto, and we hope by another year to have a specific plan for beauOwing to the abundant supply of water which
tifying the
we have, this can be carried into effect very easily.
During the past year many of the Lodges about the bay have
visited the home at Decoto and conferred the Degrees. This has been
much appreciated by the residents, and the Board wishes to encourage
this fraternizing of the Craft with the members at Decoto. A most
cordial welcome is extended to the Lodges to keep up this good work.
M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master Benjamin F. Bledsoe has visited the
Homes during the year, and the Board has had his support and assistance in determining some of the important questions connected with
the work.
SAN GABRIEL HOM'ft.

The second, and perhaps the most serious problem which confronted your Trustees this year was the property at San Gabriel. Perhaps no more beautiful or picturesque site could be found in Southern
California, and anyone passing in front of the San Gabriel property
and looking at the massive oaks, beautiful palms and verdant foliage,
the result of twenty-eight years of growth, cannot but be favorably imwith the beautiful surroundings.
But the situation confronting your Trustees bore no relation to the
beauties of the place. On the property in the rear of our buildings,
a few vears ago a little wash was noted, and this has developed each
year u;1til nO\~, during the winter, it is a raging torrent. The condition has heen intensified hv the fact that the City of Pasadena has
diverkd practically all of it~ storm waters into the stream which flows

GHAND LOllG!~ OF CALlFOH.NlA

into the rear of our San Gabriel property, and from a little stream of
,,·atcr in the winter, it has developed into a most serious menace, the
path of the water at times being 150 feet wide, with no possibility of
JHe\·enting damage when the stream is running full.
\Vithout desiring to be personal in any way, or to give credit
where it is not cine, particular mention should be made of the efforts
of Trustee Brother E. B. Spencer, who has on every rainy night visited the Home at San Gabriel, and made every possible effort to save
not only our realty but the buildings in which our young people are
shclterecl. Last year we expended some $2000 for barriers, with the
hope that our property might be saved. But when the winter came
-ancl it \Vas not a severe winter, from the standpoint of rainfallafter each storm, water rushing through this stream became a torrent,
and our property, particularly the buildings, were endangered. Brother
Spencer has workecl many nights, in the rain and in the storm water,
for the protection of the property owned by the Masonic Grand Lodge.
and this fact is gi,·en special mention at this time so that the members
of our Grand Lodge will appreciate the critical situation existing, because most of our members who visit San Gabriel look at our property
from the front of the huilclings only, and cannot appreciate the conditions existing in the rear.
The builcling we arc using at San Gabriel is some twenty-eight
years olcl, of frame construction, ancl the ravages of time are verv
apparent. Anticipating the change of location necessitated by the ston;1
and other conditions, however, the Board clid not deem it wise to make
any repairs or e\·cn temporary improvements in the old buildings.
I\ either clicl we make a11y additions or replacements in the furniture or
equipment, believing it a sane economy to meet a temporary inconvenience ancl ha\·e all purchases made in harmony with the new buildings \vhich would be necessary.
~\nyone familiar with conditions in the United States <luring the
past two or three years will appreciate that to sell real estate at this
t imc \vas practically an impossibility. N everthelcss, your Trustees spent
a ,·ery large amount of time going into the situation from every angle.
;lt1d finally, after much work, some half dozen parcels of land were
offered hy various parties in trade for our San Gabriel property. Your
Trustees. lw\YCHT, \H'IT loath to act without feeling positively certain
lli thL·ir ground, ancl knowing that their action in the matter woulcl be
in line \\·ith the desires of this Grancl Body. As time wore on. how\'l'l'r, thl· situ;t!inn hcc;1111c more serious, ancl they then determined to
S\'Clir\' tli<' lll'st \':\pert:; nht:1i11;ililc on land v:1hws tn c:irdully investigate

t I It'

~it 11;1 t j, >11.

r\·c,ult 1>f this decisi1H1, JlH' uf the best land appraisers in
~1>t1tl1n11 (';ilif()rnia, t11n·e of tl1c111 appraisers for the •targest hanks
\:;

;1

393

in Los Angeles, and two g·encral land appraisers, were asked, on hehalf
of the Trnstccs of the Masonic IT om es, to carefully investigate the
present site at San Gabriel ancl all others offered in exchange, and _to
make recommendations as to what should b~ done. These five appraisers are men who pass upon land values by which hundreds of 1~1illio~1s
of dollars are loaned, and are the most expert in Southern Cahforrna.
Two clays were spent in inspection, one group of two men going out
one clay and the three other appraisers the second clay. Each group
submitted a report of their findings, and although the two were never
in consultation, their reports were practically identical. They agreed
that the building at San Gabriel was, so far as actual value is con.. cerned. nil, and because of its present condition was becoming exceedingly dangerous, and on account of the wash extending through the
property, it was extremely hazardous as an orphanage.
The five appraisers recommcn(led that if the exchange could be
made of the ten to eleven acres of land at San Gabriel for the fiftytwo acres located near Covina, it \vas decidedly to our advantage to
accept the proposition. We may add that every one of the five appraisers reported that if we secured the Covina property, the monetary
advantage to the Grand Lodge woulcl he an important one.
Forty-two acres of this land are in one piece, and ten acres arc
a short distance removed. Twenty-five acres of the tract are level
mesa land, on which cot1ld he erected buildings. The remaining seventeen acres comprise a slope from mesa land to creek, quite a distance
below and the land is of such character as to lend itself to beautification for it possesses some natural ruggedness. A portion of the seventeei; acres is well adapted to gardening, while the rest of it, although
having no particular valne for general purposes, is valuable to the
Home as recreation grounds, and is of such nature as to allow the boys
in time to bring about splendid parking effects. The other ten acres,
while detached and a little inaccessible, is good ground, and can be
utilized. It is a desirable piece of land ancl possesses enough value to
perform some good service to the Home.
After receiving the report of the appraisers, your Trustees held a
special meeting, and upon consultation with the Grand Master, it v:as
deemed expedient that a change of property be made. 'l'he transact10n
has now been consummated.
While we have not given the report of the appraisers in detail,
because this would, for various reasons, be impracticable, these recor~s
are on file and can be reviewed by anyone interested. The report will
show that the Grand Lodge has benefited materially from the exchange
of properties.
Jt is essentially necessary that the children be taken from the
San Gabriel Home at the earliest possible date, and plans have, there-

..
PHOCEEDJNG:S UF TllE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

395

fore, Leen prepared for temporary structures, pending the construction
of the permanent fireproof buildings. These temporary structures will
be perfectly safe for the children, and will answer all purposes until
the fireproof buildings are completed. Plans for the permanent structures are now under consideration by your Trustees.
Although a portion of the funds raised by the fifty-cent per capita
tax for new buildings will be used for the work of completion of the
dormitory at Decoto, there will not be sufficient funds for the building
of the Orphans' H'Ome, unless the fifty-cent tax is continued, and as
this is so essential and undoubtedly apparent to every member of the
Grand Lodge, we believe it should be continued.
A most regrettable occurrence of the year to the Board, was the
resignation of our esteemed and much-loved matron, Mrs. H. E. Alexander. Her failing health during the last two years has had a telling effect, and the active duties of caring for our large family became
too great for her strength. Her sweet influence with the children,
and the great respect she commanded from all interested in the Home,
were of inestimable value to the Fraternity. The splendid discipline
and the cheerful spirit of the children stand as a substantial and beautiful monument to her industrious _efforts. The Board, while recognizing that the demands of the position of matron were too heavy for
her, has prevailed upon Mrs. Alexander to accept a position as instructor, which calls for less active responsibilities, and so we shall not
be deprived of her useful influence and personal work with the children.
The selection of a new matron naturally fell to Mrs. M. E. Miller,
the senior in service of our staff at the Home, and during the past year
assistant matron to Mrs. Alexander. Mrs. Miller is most capable in management, economical in all detail, and possesses that unusual faculty of
holding the love of every child without the least suggestion of favoritism. She was Mrs. Alexander's selection as a successor to carry on
the work in which she was so devotedly interested, and the Board was
pleased to endorse her recommendation.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. S. WELLS,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
THOMAS FLINT,
E. B. SPENCER,
ELMER E. STONR

SECRETARY'S REPORT.
San Francisco, Cal., Sept. 18, 1915.

To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California.
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my Annual Report as your Secretary for the year ended July 31, 1915, making the report of the
Accountam my financial report.
Fraternally yours,
ELMER E. STONE,
Secretary.

San Francisco, Cal., Sept. 18, 1915.

To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Honies of California.
GENTLEMEN : I have audited the accounts of the Masonic Homes
of California for the year ended July 31, 1915, and following upon ~he
last similar at1dit have presented a complete report thereof, embracmg
statements exhibiting in full details of the financial position and financial operations of the Homes to the date of July 31, 1915.
I have verified the income from reports submitted by the Superintendent, the expenditures by exam.ination of properly approved vouchers, accompanied by supporting invoices or other documents, and the
funds 011 deposit in banks, by examination of bank statements and
Treasurer's books.
I have verified the securities and cash of the Permanent Endowment Fund, the Decoto and San Gabriel Revolving Funds and the
cash account of F. B. Hartman, Trustee.
Faithfully yours,
WALTER B. BIRDSALL,
Accountant.

PHOCEl~lJlNGS

OF TUE

GHAND LODGE OF' CAL1FOHN1A

~1.\SO:\ IC llO~IES

397

OF CAL1 FOR~ L\,

SAl\ GABRIEL, CALIFOR:\L\.
I) l•:cuTO -_·\'7D
·"

~L\SOXlC 110:.\Ji•:s OF C:\I.,IFOR:\'J.\,

General Balance 'SI1ee t . J uly- 31, 1915.

DECOTO AI\D S"\N GABRfEL, C:\UFORX L\.

ASSE'.l'S.

Cash .

.............................. .......... $ 39,982.56
475.00
1, 1914, to July 31, 1915 .

39,237.50
Securities ···-············· ······················
.
4.635.50
Sup11h- and Sundry Equipment Im·entones ·-·~·-··········
·- R . I Estate I mprovemcn t s ancI Enmpment
327.545.58
'1
lkcoto e<1 ~· ' '
,
•
, 1 . 1 R . I Estate Improvements and EqmpSan (,;1 n1c
e,1
,. '
'
......... .
71,605.41
J1H.'llt ...
. ......................... ..
-.. - - ....... -- -- - --.
1,900.00
Real Estate I1westments
674.53 'I''''"""''~-- .. _..
"\li;-cellancous ............................................................. .,........... ________
~-

~~

.........:.....................$ 5.913.64
8,825.56

Trust Funds .......................................................... ~---~~~-""7
Resident;;' Personal I knnsits .................... $ 866.5
.
Special H.11k ?\o. 16.......................
........ ... 6.778.99
1,180.00

Capi1al

976.08
1:i 11 Jding F1111d ..

Ccncral Fund-Capital

Special Ruic No. 16 Fund ............................................

5,747.94

Permanent Endowment Fund .......... .........................

1,251.56

Entertainment Fund ... ............................. ....................

1,23i.43

Residents' Deposit Fund ............................... ........... .

1,061.32

Head Stone Fund

1.080.00
17,445.63
112.522.62

Receipts

General Fllnd

I lc;1d Stone

1\-rmam·nt F11dow111e11t Furnl .

$ 31,153.4i
General Fund .......................................................................... '!' 3,329.59

Hnilding ·Ftmd ................................................... ..

LJ;\llJLJ'.l'lES.

Vom:liers pay;1hle ..... .

Balance on hand Attgu:,:t l,

41.381.20
...................
16,631.80
.. ................... 412.J27.80
----$486.056.03

Special Rule N' o. 16

5,461.76

Permanent Endowment Fund ....................................

2,921.33

Residents' Deposit Fund ................................................

620.33

Head Stone Fund ....................... ....................................

100.00

Building Fund ................................................................ 26.589.50

$143,676.()9

:ms

l'ltoCEEiJlNGS OF 'l'JH;

GHAND LODGE OF CALlFOHNIA

399

109,607.17

Disbursements ········· ······· ----- -----·---- --·-·· -·········General Fund ----------- --------------------------------------------------------$? 4'667 ·51
Special Rule No. 16 Fund ... ----------------------------------------- 4•430 ·71

Entertainment Fund --------------------------------------------------------

Permanent Endowment Fund ------------------------------------

2,029.19
261.35

Residents' Deposit Fund ----------- ----------------------------------

815.08

Building Fund ----------------------------------------------------

MASONIC HOi\TES OF CALIFORNIA,
DECOTO A;\'D SAN GABRIEL, CALIFORNIA.
STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

27,403.33

August 1, 1914, to July 31, 1915.
34,068.92

Balance on hand July 31, 1915 ---------------- ---------------------General Fund -------------------------------------------------------------------- $ 5' 491.78
Special Rule No. 16 Fund --------------------------------------------

6•778 ·99

Permanent Endowment Fund ------------------------------------

2,143.70

Entertainment Fund --------------------------------------------------------

976.08

Balance on hand, August 1, 1914________ ---------------------------- --------------$

3,329.59

Receipt:; _----------------------------------------------------------------------------

69,416.79

Per Capita Tax ------------------------------ ---------------------------------$53,179.00
Decato Farm Rental and Sales _____________ ------------------ 8,229.97

Residents' Deposit Fund ----------------------------------------------

866.57

Head Stone Fund ------------------------------------------------------------

1.180.00

Donations -----------·-------------------------------------------------------------Interest on Deposits -----------------------------------------------------Funeral Expense --------------·······-------------··--··-··-----------·-·--·
San Gabriel Farm Sale ................................................

Building Fund -------------------------------------- ---------------------------- 16 '631 '80

Miscellaneous ···-----·····---··--·---·--·-·----·-----·-·------··---·--·----·--·

Disposition
--- --------- ----Balance with Grand Treasurer (All Funds) ........ $24,299.51
Revolving Fund ----------------------: _____________ _

2,250.00

Bank of Italy --------------------------------------------------------------------

6,628.23

Central National Bank ----------------------------------------------------

5•938 ·25

F. B. Hartman, Trustee ------------------------------------------------

866.57

34,068.92

$39,982.56
Less Checks Outstanding (Vouchers Payable).

5,913.64
- - - $ 34,068.92

4,298.02
2,098.32
289.00
1,292.01
30.47
$ 72,746.38
67,254.60

Dis burs em c n ts . ___ .... __ .__ ... ___ .. _.. ____ .... ___ ..... __ ........ __ .... ___ ...... __ .. .

Decato Home Operation ·---------------------------------------------$32,287.14
San Gabriel Home Operation .................................... 16,535.11
Decato Farm Operation ................................................ 7,261.27
General Expense .............................................................. 3,438.25
Funeral Expense ..............................................................

475.00

San Gabriel Fann Operation ·------·-----------·--------·-------

1,537.33

Decato Building Equipment ·-·------------------------------------·
San Gabriel Building Equipment .............................. ..

42.99

San Gabriel Sundry Improvements ....................... .
Interest Paid ................................................................... .

553.55

Taxes ................................................................................ ..
Miscellaneous ....................................................................

13.03
103.75
584.52
316.61

Decato Sundry Improvements ................................ 4,106.05
Balance on hand July 31, 1915 ........................................................ $ 5,491.78

GHAND LODGE OF CALJFORNL\.
PltUCl~EJJlNGB

400

.

and stock feed has been raised for the dairy, hog and chicken ranches.
The vegetable
and bcrrv
gave rrood returns and " g.oo d vane
· t-y .
Tl
·
~ _
,., gardens
.,
. ic vmeyard !or several years has been deteriorating, making it necessary to reduce the acreage. The new orchard planted last year is doin"
well.
"'

Dccoto, Alameda County, Cal., October 1, 1915.

(':>

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
The undersigned presents the seventeenth annual report as Superi11tcmknt of the llfosonic Homes of California.
The year just closed has been one of great progress in the affairs
,.f tlw Decoto and San Cabrid Homes. The constructive work carried
0 11 during the past two years has resulted in improved methods of admm1-tration in the internal affairs of the Homes. It has enabled the
management to reach a higher stan<hrd of service in the practical lines

of the work.
The members of nur l;1rgc family arc encouraged to interest themselves in the welfare of the Tlornes and to render assistance in the
general routine \vork .\ loyal effort on the part of each one has created
a splendid spirit in both Homes.
The social side of our J lomc liie has heen carried out by means of
entertainments of various kinds. Ont-of-door recreations have been
provided. This year all the older <111d younger members of the family
\\ho were ahlc to visit the Panama Pacific Exposition were given the
opp<lrtnnity to do so. The camping trip of the children at Balboa, which
li;is become an annual event, was also enjoyed by them.
.\ marked improvement has been made in the general conditions at
1'w l l omc,. due to the faithful efforts of the employees. residents and
d1ild rcn. all as far
possible contributing by personal example to the
hnilding 11p of the hope and aim of the Fraternity, The Ideal Home.
llECO'fO.

There have been admitted to the Home during the year 13 men and
3 wonwn. There arc now at the Home 85 men and 45 women. All the
moms are now occupied. Admissions have only been made as vacancies
occur. The new huilding for men will give 51 additional rooms which
will soon be a vailablc. The increased accommodations will more than
take care of all the applicants now on the waiting list.
The health of the Home has been normal. There are now 18 mem1icrs b<.'ing cared for in the Coleman Hospital. With the coming ii~­
c;-casc<l mcmbcn,hip of the family, it will be necessary to provide ackht i"nal room at the
for the proper care nf the sick and infirm.
It has been demonstrated that our water supply is inexhaustible,
th'' rcsenoirs arc full at all times ancl equal to any demand made on
1h,·m.

The greater part of the hill ranch has. as heretofore, been kasc<l

L

The ~arm has supplied plenty of fruit for table use, the surplus bc-

~11g sold 111 the San Francjsco market; also a large quantity of corn

SCPERINTENDENT'S REPORT.

citbl'r on shares or for cash rental.

401

UF' TJ I b:

-

-

._,_

The . operation of the
..
. heating, laurnlrv. and cold .storao-e
"' pl'iit-s 1MS
icen_ satisfactory. A brick addition has hccn built as an annex to tlw
heat111g plant, to be used ;is a blacksmith shop where all pipe and repair
work can he attended to.

l

H

The chkken ranch has snpplird all the eggs for kitchen and tahle
The
dairy has furmshed plenty of milk ancl the hog ranch has also given
good returns.
~
us~, and a snr~lus of 6000 eggs h;is been put up for winter use.

A large q1~antitv of frnit has hecn preserved by the women of the
Home, and all the. mendino- and household linen has bct'n made by
thcn1.
b
A n11mhcr of the brethren have contributed to the welfare oi the
H,omc by their lahor in .the carpenter, shoe. tailor and barber shops:
.il~o tl;e wood yard, and 111 the care of flower gardens, lawns and light
\\ ork m a general way.
The. stcac~v growth of the library continues, there being at the
pre~se_nt t11nc 2:i00 volumes 011 the ,,helves. In addition to this we are the
r:c1p1ents. thr~ug~1 members of the Fraternity. of' daily papers. magazme~ ~rnd pcnod1cals which arc placed on the tables of the Iibrarv

mcirs clnh room and the hdks' reading room.

''

. Tl:e weekly moving picture and mnsical entertainments have hccn
gwcn m the Simonoff Temple. The Thursday evening social, games
:mt! _d;inccs; the \Vednesd;iy afternoon reading cfob, and the Fridav
cvcmng song practice. have been regularly held in the Assemhlv Hall
The usual services are held on Sunday afternoon.
.
·r; A complete stereopticon outfit was don;;t<:cl to the Home bv Paci.i_c ~odgc. No. l~, F. & A. :'\L. by means or' which stcreoptic~n entc1 tammcnts and 1!1ustr<ited lectures have hcen given for the benefit
of the members of the family.
. A compkte h<incl laundry has been placed in the basement of the
~i 1 a11: building. equipped with two stationary tuhs, hot and cold water.

irtnmg hoard and tahle, clothes racks. r!ectric irons, etc. for the use
the .women of the Home. This ha,: hccn a gre:it need' ;ind is mur! 1
appreciated hy them.

0

F.ach month arrangements arc ma<le so th;it the members of the
1Ion1e-a frw at a time-have an opportunity to visit Alameda Lodge,

PIWCEEDINGS OF 'l'l!E

·102

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

N 16 7 F & '\. :'IL and Orient Chapter, N' o. 177, 0. E. S., at their
l o.
• ·special
·
'
·
t rips
· are. m a de. to Oakland'
stated
and
mccctings,
and at times
San Francisco anti towns near the Home.
\II the members of the Home who were able to go. h•:ve been
takc;1 to visit the Panama-Pacific Exposition. at San Fra11c1sc~, the
. Board
of Relief of San Francisco havmg donated $116.44 and
\I
. asomc
•
28 achnission tickets for that purpose..
Lodge of California• arrived
at the Home
\I- en11)ers Of tile, G nnd
c
•
October 14, 1914. hy special train, on a tour of mspect10n.
.
Th, soci-11 life of the Home has been greatly enriched by literary
c ·
•entertainments ma<1e po:s1)
"·11 e.bY generous volunteers
from
and mnsical
.
b d mov1:

I

Lnrlges. memlwrs of Lodges and their ladies, Islam Shrm~ewa~~ odgc
_,
.'
1·11 ,_,. 1)icturcs miscdlancous program and band concert. d _
.·
'
I T
I an .rave
a mus
1~o. 374, conferred the Third Degree at tie emp .e.
"'
the
nl concert Oak Leaf Chapter, '.\" o. 8, 0. E. S .. m1tiatory wor at

k .

:.y

'l:emplc an~\ picnic in the gro~e. Illust.rated lectttrNeT
3~~otl~et~1da~d
"The Honcv Bee.
Sequ01a Lodge,
,
I ' 1· I
'ro 1c 1cr.
•
r
2Y
f rring the Degrees
I I
]\, 440 and Brnoklvn Lodge, No. ~J, cone
• d ·
0( gc, · '·
· '
·
·
1\f ·
"China" Oakland Lo ge,
.
.e ibert Bell proTllnslrated lecture liy Rev. J. . artm, on
N o. 188. entertainment at Temple. Illustrated lectur ' L
y
gram. I\ cw year's Eve, carnival and watch party.
.
4

·'I.II the holidavs ha\·e hcen ohserved with appropriate exerc1s:s.
'rlie' «pccials were. those which were held on New Year's Day, Lmf.
·
M
'·I D ay, Fourth o
coin's.. Birthday,
\Vashington ·s Birthday.
• emon,1
July, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas.
SAN GABRIEL.

The Orphans' H.orne in San Gabriel. while accompan.icd by. a vast
ammmt of small detail in its work, and cares of an ent1:ely d~ffe~r~~
intnrc than that required for the old pc•oplc at Dcc.oto, is 17~1e c
i~ns·iti 1 w in manv wavs for the efforts employed. \V1th th~ o er nki:rn•
· t'10n, an d ,Father
Time: mar
mg
hers.. at ~Decoto 'we witness
(1etcnora
.
. dehis pro"rcss with telling force. Ilerc at San (,abnel we \\ttness.
\·clopm;nt, physically and mentally: and Father Time ea~ ~care::n;~~
ing the children nearer to maturity and us.efnlness,
c y
omol;lcr ones march out into the world to exercise the talents andd ace
·
as rapt·di Y n'ewer an youngl1li"hlllc11ts acquired in the Home, but inst
· the ranks, and keep our l't
c r ' ones fill
l t I e army not on 1y a 1ways recruited. but always increasing.
v 0 . ir n(Jard of Trustees are more than satisfied with the resul~s
1
t
' '
• I
M
· l tram
nhtaine<l in placing our oldc•r hoy~ with rcsp011S1h c a;01;s, ~Vol~ s~on
them in some snitahlc line of bus mess or trade. Most o t le h ~ . k
earn sufficient wages to support themselves after a few n:ont s .wo:i ;
requiring om assistance only in case of illness, and occas1011a 11 Y m 1

!

403

purchase of clothing or some sensible necessity. All our boys are uoing well but ·one. who is continually influenced
hy a most determined
and badly misguided parent.
A most satisfactory solntion of the proper housing and caring
for the boys now at work has been reached in the organization of a
cluh. where all the boys can be dormitoried and boarded at the same
place. The boys organized with their own officers, made and executed their own rules, and keep account of their general expense. At
the time of making this report, however, the owner of the property
occupied by the boys met with reverses, and lost the place by foreclosure. The lady leasing the property could not make satisfactory
terms with the new owner, and the boys are temporarily boarding with
private families. The Board will probably secure a suitable place for
the boys soon, that they may be again together, and under the mild but
necessary discipline of a proper and capable person to direct their care
and organization.
The children at the Home are deeply appreciative of the care they
receive, and through the influence of their instrnctors are striving to
show their gratitude by a substantial improvement in all the duties
assigned to them. Their special teachers in music, dancing, drilling and
manual work, compliment them upon their unusual application and persistency of effort. Their school work is marked by an equal interest,
and is evidenced by the fact that of fifty-eight pupils from the Home.
only two failed to make their grade, and one of these was a new boy
who was confosed in his classes hy a transfer from a school graded
differently.

We continue to arrange evenings of entertainment through committees supplying varied programs. Many clever and original numbers
are arranged that would reflect credit on older persons. All patriotic
and other holidays arc observed with an appropriate program. Visitations of the Board of Relief, Past Masters' Association, Lodges coming
in a body, etc., are always given a short program, that the Fraternity
may know to some extent the care given the children,
The greatest care is exercised in the selection of the women who
are given the responsibility of training the young minds and hearts of
those left for the Fraternity to bring up to a high standard of citizenship. Due credit must be given those who give many hours a day in
their respective duties to the special advancement of the personality
and culture of the individual child. The new child brought to the
Home has been a victim of reverses, and, in many cases, a long time
without care and training. :i\foch patience is required to overcome
some of these unfavorable conditions. The general system, however,
of all working to one end soon obtains results.

UlL\NlJ LOll<;g OF C.\LH'UltNJA

404

'

,,!!
l'

l'HOCEBDlNGS OF THE

l\Iiss Dorothy Lyndall continues her splendid and valuable work
teaching special dances. Our girls delight in this work and respond
well to l\Iiss Lyndall's skillful training. l\Iiss Lyndall 1s devoted to
the work and accepts no compensation.
Mrs. Lela Buckman has splendid results in her piano instruction,
though her advanced pupils nearly always leave the Home at a most
unsafr;factory period of her work. Her musicales, given at the end
of each term, always show splendid advancement.
The notable e\·ent of the year, and one that will mark one of the
brightest spots in their entire lives. is the visit of the older children
to the Exposition at San Francisco, as the guests of the Lodges of the
Bay Cities. Everything was provided to make the trip both instructive
and cnj oyable. Guides were furnished and a systematic arrangement
nf the trips was so made that the best features were 1'iven suitable
attention. Bro. Leo Bruck devoted much attention and has won the
enrlasting friendship of the children. His thoughtfulness in all
matters of arrangement. his ability in securing concessions, and his
generous yet economical handling of funds, marks him as a past
master in this work. Bro. Mitchel was tireless in looking after the
children, and Mrs. Herndon, of the Board of Relief, endeared herself
to tbcm hy lier continuous assistance. Bro. John Whicher. T. J.
·Baker, \V. A. Sherman and Harry Johnson always had something new
for them, and in our list of Donation° is shown the many kindnesses
extended by the generous l\Iasons and Eastern Star members of San
Francisco.
All the children were taken to the Camp at Balboa, where the usual
courtesies were extended, and a happy, hearty and healthful vacation
was enjoyed. Of sixty-six children in camp. only seven did not learn
to swim. Side trips were arranged to neighboring beaches and all
local pleasures indulged in. Jn swimming contests with a similar camp
of boys of a military school, our boys won nearly all the events.
Our health record still remains practically perfect. N" o serious
illness has at any time ,·isited the Home. Dr. Dunsmoor. the good
guardian of our health, is as faithful as ever in caring for all our little
troubles physically and particularly in arranging suitable diet and forms
of exercise.
The children have a new and most generous and faithful friend
in Bro. Paul 0. Paulsen of Silver Trowel Lodge. This generous Lodge,
always thoughtful of the children, excelled itself and all other Lodges
for individual gifts, in presenting the Home with a splendid moving
picture machine, with all necessary equipment, screen, roller cases,
wiring, etc. But they gave us more when they gave us Bro. Paulsen,
who goes to all the agencies, selects the most suitable films, and comes

:r: ;~~~ ;~~: 0~::~

out regularly with his good w"f
Such Masons as Bro. Paulsen

405

.

operates the machine.

Mrs. Ola Taylor of the Los Angeles Board
and
of Relief, Bro. Alex
Silver Trowel Lodge are always cl . '
Bro. \Vm. Schneider of
.
omg some tho htf I k"
t I1e c I11ldren, too numerous to mention all
ug u mdnesses for

C~lver of Southern California Lodge

The Lodges, Stars and members vi~itino.
.
mtmbcr, and their cordial inter t .
':' u_s are mcreasmg in
TI
d
.
es Ill our family is n h
.
10se eservmg special mention .
me appreciated.
smce our 1ast report
f 11
September 12-M b
.
are as o ows:
·
em ers of Shrme Club 0 f L
. B
ladies called with twelve a t
d
ong each and their
Humiston's ranch near A u ofs an "took the children to Bro. J. D.
'
zusa, or a Melonfest" A b"
September 20-Goldcn We t C
·
1g, fine treat.
ommandery B d .
s
1111cIer the trees for the h"ld
an gave a concert
·
c 1 ren. An unusual
d
cntertamment.
' an much appreciated
an

d September 24-Joe Knowles , "tl1e NT aturc Man" · ·t d h
gave a splendid talk to the children.
"
' v1s1 e t e Home

October 3-Through members of Silver T.
dogs from one of the theatres we b
I
iowel Lodge, performing
for the children. Also Bro A rleChro.ug it to the Home and performed
·
'
· xe
nstensen of Cl11·
s t rat10n of exc<0ptional pla · _
h
.
cago gave demonymg on t c piano.
October II-Eastern Star D
V" .
?IJ innie Hiner of Los A .
(~Yrsit by Grand Matron Mrs.
S
ngc 1es. ,rand P·itron l\I F I
·
tockton, Grand Ruth M
D ll
'
r. 'rec Kmcaid of
Martha Mrs. Nellie Grah:i~ o/ A~! B. bClute o~ Hanford, and Grand
gram for them.
iam ra. Children rendered a proOctober 25-A visit by representati .
f
Past Masters' Association
h
\CS o
the Southern California
f
' w o presented the Hon
·h
o porch furniture, Bro. Jacob Fo le of Sil'
1e wit a $100 set
the presentation.
g
'er Trowel Lodge making
X o_vember 24-Ladies and members of Gardena Chapter, 0. E. S.
The
children gave proaram
h
"
· y 1·s1"t ors gave them sixty-three quarts of
ome-made jams and jellies.
December 12-Southern Califo . p
their annual meeting A . cl
rn1a ast Masters' Association held
·
goo pro 0 Tam was gi
d h
an unexpected part in the de ree
"
'
ven an t e boys took
attended.
g
work. One hundred and fifty members
December 20--About th"
of A
. . . dirty members of Jasmine Chapter No 145
· .,
zusa v1s1te the Home and 1 f
·
•
home-made candy Tl
I "Id
c t seventy-five boxes of
T .
·
1e c 11 rcn respond I "tl Ch ·
hrs Chapter makes this most enJ·o. bl
lclc wr 1
nstmas program.
} a e ca on us everv ye
December 20--A.hout tw
, ii
.
ar.
No. 173, 0. E. S .. called in b~1I~~;l~ i~~ t1~e.m!Cichrs of Long Beach Chapter
etr
apter and gave each child

0. E S

PROC1:£l<}DlNGS 01<~ THJ~;

GIL"'NlJ LOI JU[•J 01•' CA LlFOltNJA

a dollar hill for its bank account and ten dollars cash for Christmas
cheer. Long Beach possesses a most liberal Masonic spirit, which lasts
the whole year through, as well as Christmas time. With the representatives of this most generous Chapter was Bro. W. H. Bennett, President of the Long Beach Shrine Club, which left, through him, a
thirty-pound pail of choice candy.

l\Iay 15-Alhambra Chapter, 0. E. S., gave a
Day party,
entertaining the children royally with games, souvenirs and refreshments. Our ~hildren also participated in the program.

407

May 30--Henry Ascroft and P. 0. Prince visited the Home.
Brother Ascroft is a favorite with the children and
always look
for new stories and good jokes from him. They also like his particular
brand of confections.

December 29-Members of Arlington Lodge visited the Home,
witnessed a good program with the children, had a losing game of
baseball with the boys, and two of their members were captured by
some of our smaller girls, who now have nice homes with them.

June 6-The Los Angeles Board of Relief meets once a year at the
Home. The children anticipate this visit with much pleasure. Many
members of the Board are known to them personally.

December 29-l\fiss Norma Gould and Miss Dorothy Lyndall gave
an afternoon in classic dancing with their pupils from Los Angeles.

San Francisco, mentioned in another part of the report.

January 31-Visit of Inglewood Lodge No. 420 and Eastern Star
ladies, sixty-five in number. Suitable program rendered and visitors
lcf t a sack of fine walnuts. This was a real live day.
February 14-"University Day." University Lodge No. 394 visited
the Home and gave a return program for the children by the children
of some of their members. A liberal quantity of fruit and candy was
left for the children.
1\Jarch 6-Formal presentation of the motion picture machine given
hv Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 at Christmas, but delay of installation
\\,~as caused by not having current. Representatives of most Los Angeles
Lodges were present.
1\Iarch 7-Bro. Thos. J. Baker visits the Home every opportunity
he has, but the children know that he always visits them in March, and
theY look forward to his coming. The hoys always have a good romp
wit-h him. the girls like his chocolates. and the lit'tle ones climb on his
lap, pull his hair and have a general good time with him.
March 14-Through the kindness of Mrs. E. W. Brooks of Pasadena, the First Regiment Band of forty-six pieces gave the children a
most delightful concert on the Home grounds. The band was liberal
in their numbers and played many selections wanted as favorites by the
children.
1\farch 31-Southland Chapter, 0. E. S., of Pasadena took the
children auto riding, picture show and good supper in Pasadena. An
annual affair.
April 11-Visit of several members of Silver Trowel Lodge. A
good program rendered.
April 29-Ladies of Highland Park Chapter No. 263, 0. E. S.,
visited the Home. The children entertained the guests, then disposed
of their generous supply of home-made candies.

June 22 to July 2-The visit of the children to the Exposition at
. July 5~Pasadena Commandery devoted a day of sport and games
with the children. They brought their ladies along, who provided a
fine lunch on the lawn, in which the children participated.
July 9 to August 25-Trip to Camp Collins at Balboa.
August 5-Bro. Wm. Schneider visited the children in camp.
Brought with him a fine, thick fillet mignon for each member of the
camp, barbecue irons, French rolls, chili and heans, and all necessarv
appointments for a barbecue. He then donned his "chef" uniform and
gave the children a fine treat.
August 22-Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor and family called at camp. The
children gave them boat rides and made them feel at home. He then
left them a good supply of candy, which almost brought him back
professionally.
August 30--The Shrine Club of Long Beach gave the children their
annual "Melonfest'' at the ranch of Bro. J. D. Humiston, near Azusa.
The melon crop was reduced in liberal proportions.

I wish to extend my appreciation of the services rendered by the
Matrons throughout the year in their respective departments.
I take occasion to express to the Board of Trustees my sincere
gratitude for the friendly advice and substantial support which at all
times I have received at their hands.
Respectfully,
FRANK

B. HARTMAN,
Superintendent.

DONATIONS To DECOTO HOME.

Pacific Lodge No. 136, stereopticon outfit; R. A. S. Wade, 156
volumes mis.cellaneo~1s b~oks; F. M. Bransford, magazines; R. c.
Guyett, clothmg; Califorma Nursery Company, Christmas tree; H. \V.
E:nerson, clothing and magazines ; S. S. Winter, dog, parrot and large
wire cage; \Vm. Cluff Company, cigars and candy; Jewel Chapter No.

PHOCEEDJNUS 01<' THE

238, 0. E. S., large framed picture; Reading Lodge No. 254, 21 volumes
The American Encyclopedia; Oak Leaf Chapter No. 8, 0. E. S., ice
cream and cake; Sequoia Lodge No. 349, candy and cigars; Doric
Lodge No. 216, croquet set; W. H. Owens, 5 gramaphone records;
Islam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S., large framed picture; E. W. Lincoln,
large box of magazines ; Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, cigars and ice cream;
Standard Lodge No. 440, cigars and cake; Orient Chapter No. 177,
0. E. S., large picture easel; Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco,
$116.44 and 28 admission tickets to the Panama-Pacific Exposition;
Morris Wolff, large package of playing cards.
DONATIONS HJR SAN G.'\BRJEL.

Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine has been particularly thoughtful
this year. The children celebrated every ceremonial the following day
with an elaborate lunch. We are always remembered with the excess
supplies.
The Pacific Electric Railway Company furnished a special car to
Balboa and sent one for the return trip without charge, besides making
special rates for other occasions.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0. E. S., of Hanford, sent their annual
Christmas box, with well selected presents for each child.
Mrs. J. J. Thomas of Columbus, Ohio, sent a Christmas box, with
presents for each child.
F. B. Silverwood gave each new boy a dollar for his bank account
and 75 half-pound boxes of candy for all in the Home.
Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor, one complete set of "Book of Knowle.clge,"
vVebster's Dictionary, many magazines, tics for the boys and many
other favors.
Mrs. Behrens, 10 pounds of candy; Mrs. G. J. Smart, box of
oranges; Mrs. W. S. Stevens, girl's suit and magazines; Oscar Mueller
of Southern California Lodge No. 278, complete set of "Books of
Knowledge"; Mrs. David Landan, four books; Joseph Thorndike, 9
boxes of plums; Masons of Paso Robles, 5 boxes of apples; Pasadena
Scottish Rite bodies, pre·sents of value of $25; Model Grocery Co., box
of apples and 10 pounds of candy; Wm. Schneider, sack of walnuts;
Mrs. Maggie Dowling, magazines and sack of oranges; Oroville Lodge
No. 103, box of oranges; Troy Laundry, box of apples; Alhambra
Lodge No. 322. sporting goods to value of $25; University Lodge No.
394, toys and books valued at $25; Mrs. J. M. Carpenter, Mrs. A. E.
Lewis and Mrs. Emma Sheret, sack of candy for each child; Hauser
Packing Co., 3 hams; Mrs. David Landan, New York City, 45 pieces
nf sheet music; Ladies' Million Club, through Mrs. P. H. Sunde, 5
d<l7.Cl1 Easter eµ;µ;s; August TT. Tuechter of Cincinnati, Ohio, 24 sheets

J

GRAND

LODGJ~

OF CALlFOHNIA

409

of music; r-.r rs. L. D. Gray, toys; Herbert D. Lore, hats for little girls
and eight felt pillows; Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Thalmann, candy for children; 1!rs. J. H. Webber, book.
Exposition Trip-By all the Bay Cities Lodges; also Judge B. F.
Bledsoe, $5.00; J. W. Baker, $5.00; Geo. P. Prechtel, $5.00; Lew
Sawyer, $5.00; Sergeant Foley, $10.00; Anna J. Smith, $10.00; W. A.
Sherman, ice cream; L. Goldberg, theatre seats for all; P. B. Jeffries,
automobiles; Harmony Chapter No. 124, 0. E. S., auto drive; Islam
Temple: autos for ride about San Francisco; Mission Chapter No. 155,
O. E. S., lunch at beach; Past Patrons and Matrons' Association, entertainment, presents of basketball and baseball and lunch at Exposition;
Crowley Launch Co., trip to battleship Oregon; M. J. Hoff, auto from
boat to Temple; John B. Glennie, candy for all; L. Muller, sausages;
S. Dcntici. fish; P. Schlegel & Co., Swiss cheese; Elizabeth Haensel,
candy; C. D. Fisher, candy; Ben Levi, 2 10-pouncl boxes of very fine
chocolates.
Camp Collins-Bros. J. P. Greeley and F. vV. Beckwith extended
many favors, boat rides, fruits, refreshments, etc.
Many visitors to camp remembered the children in many ways;
fruits, melons, candies, etc., were always plentiful.
Bro. Ralph A. Chase contributed much to the life of the camp.
One clay was a "Chase Day," with sports, racing, games, etc., arranged
by him. The .prizes were also supplied by him.
CASH DON A '!'JONS.

San Pasqual Lodge No. 452, $10.00; Unity Lodge No. 368, $5.00;
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367, $14.00; Mrs. Frank L. Slate, Pasadena,
$2.00; Sunset Lodge No. 352, $10.00; Santa Clara Chapter No. 299,
0. E. S., $25.00; Los Angeles Scottish Rite bodies, $100.00; Westgate
Lodge No.· 335, $10.00; Sierra Madre Chapter No. 408, 0. E. S., $10.00;
Long Beach Chapter No. 173, $75.00; Wilshire Lodge No. 445, $25.50;
Palestine Lodge No. 351, $5.00; Presidio Lodge No. 354, $25.00; L. F.
Bambaucr, $5.00; Rising Light Lodge No. 397, $5.00; Long Beach Lodge
No. 327, $5.00; Ventura Chapter, R. A. M., $10.00; Arlington Lodge
No. 418, $45.00; R. A. Maxwell, Soldiers' Home, $1.00; J\rnlrcw C'r.
Diebold, $5.00; Pasadena Commandcry No. 31, $18.75; Amapola Chapter
No. 119, 0. E. S., $15.00; Redondo Chapter No 101, R. A. M., $10.00;
W. T. Jane, $1.00; Albert Dodge, $5.00.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

HO

411

l'l1UClcEDlNG!:; 01<' THE

CHRISTMAS CASH

DO:N"ATIONS,

1914.

Lud~e.
Nu.
Amt.
Lodge.
No.
Amt.
.\bell
5.00 Downey ....................... 220........ 5.00
.\<\in ..................... .250........ 5.00 Dunsmuir ................... .297........ 5.00
.\lama
..................... 122........ 5.00 Durant .......................... 268........ 10.00
.\larneda
............ 167........ 5.00 East Belt ................... 391........ 5.00
.\Icatrn?. ...................... 244........ 10.00 East Gate .................. .270........ 10.00
.\lpha ........................ .431........ 5.00 E<le1i ............................ 113........ 5.00
,\ lta . ...
.. ... 333........ 5.00 Enterpdse .................. 79........ 5.00
Altuns ...................... .248........ 5.00 Eucalyptus ................ 243........ 25.00
.\mity
............... 370........ 15.00 Eureka ............... .......... 16........ 2.50
.\111ador ..................... 65 ........ 10.00 Excelsior .................... .166........ 25.00
.\n:theim . .. ............ .207 ........ 10.00 Evening Star ........... .186........ 5.00
.\polio .......................396........ 5.00 Evergreen ................... 259........ 10.00
.\rcata
......... Hl6 ........ 20.00 Exeter ........................ ..424..... . 10.00
,\rtesia
..............377........ 10.00 Fidelity ................... .120........ 25.00
.\shlar . .. ...............306........ 5.00 Fillmore .....
. .....379 ....... 10.00
Bakersfield
....... .224........ 25.00 Forest ......................... 66........ 5.00
Bahler .......................393 ........ :20.00 Francis Drake ............ 376........ 10.00
Ray View
.. ..401... ..... 10.00 Franklin ...................... 143 ........ 10.00
Dear Mountain .......... 76........ 5.00 Friendship ....................210........ 10.00
Benicia ............ ............ 5. ....... 10.00 Fruitvale ...................... 336 ........ 10.00
Berkeley ... .
.. .. 363 ........ 10.00 Golden Gate ............... 30........ 10.00
Blackmer ................... 442........ 5.00 Gold Hill ................... 32 ........ 20.00
n rooklyn ..................... .225........ 10.00 Granite .... .. ................222 ........ 20.00
Bnckcye
............... 195........ S.00 Hammonton ................433 ........ 10.00
Burlingame ................ 400........ 10.00 Hanford ........................279........ 10.00
California ..
1... ..... 31.05 Hawaiian .................... 21... ..... 50.00
Charity ....
.. ..... 362........ 7.50 Henry Clay ................ 95........ 5.00
Charter Oak ............. .410........ 10.00 Hermann ...................... 127 ........ 15.00
Chico
.......... 111... ..... 10.00 Hesperian ................... .264........ 5.00
Ckar Lake .................. 183........ 5.00 Highland Park .......... 382........ 10.00
Clay ...................... .101... ..... 10.00 Hills
................ 236........ 6.50
Clovis ........................ ..417........ 5.00 Hiram ........................... 43........ 5.00
Coalinga
................. 387........ 5.00 Hollenbeck ..................319........ 10.00
Concord . .. ................. .117........ 10.00 Hollywood ..................355 ........ 10.00
Confidence .................. 203........ 5.00 Honolulu ....................409........ 20.00
Colusa ......................... 240........ 5.00 Howard ...................... 96........ 5.00
Corinthian . ..... ............ 9........ 5.00 Humboldt .................... 79........ 20.00
Corona ......................... 324........ 20.00 Illinoistown .................. SL. ..... 10.00
Crescent
45........ 5.00 Jewel .............................. 374........ 5.00
Crockett .
.. ............ 139........ 25.00 Jeffer!;On ..................... 97.:...... 5.00
Dinuba ..... ..
..385........ 5.00 King David's ........... .209........ 5.00
Doric ... . .... . ........... .216 ....... 25.00 Keith ........................... .187 .... 10.00

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Lodge.
No.
Amt.
La Fayette
... .126........ 5.00 Palo Alto
.............. 346 ....... 5.00
Lassen .......................... 149........ 5.00 Palos Ver des .............. 389........ 10.00
Las Palmas .................. 366........ 5.00 Parnassus .................... 388 ........ 10.00
Liberty ..........................299........ 10.00 Pasadena ................... 272........ 10.00
Live Oak ................. 61... ..... 25.00 Paso Robles .............. .286........ 10.00
Lodi ..............................256........ 5.00 Penryn ...................... .252.
5.00
Lompoc ....................... .262........ 10.00 Phoenix ................... 178 ........ 15.00
Long Beach ................ 327........ 5.00 Pinole ...
.. .............. 353........ 10.00
Los Angeles ................ 42........ 10.00 Pittsburg ....
.. .. ..429........ 10.00
Los Gatos ................... .292 ........ 10.00 Plumas ...
.. ...... 60........ 5.00
Madero ....................... .280........ 10.00 Presidio ...................... 354 ........ 10.00
}fadison ...................... 23........ 5.00 . Reading ....................... 254........ 10.00
Magnolia ..................... .242........ 10.00 Redwood City ............ 168 ........ 20.00
Marin ........................... .191... ..... 15.00 Richmond
................ 375 ........ 10.00
Martinez ...................... 41....... 5.00 Rio Vista ................... .208........ 5.00
Marysville .................. 7....... 10.00 Roseville ..................... .432........ 5.00
McKinley .................... 347........ 5.00 Sacramento ................ 40........ 10.00
Mendocino .................. 179........ 5.00 Saint John's ................ 37........ 5.00
l\Iidway ....................... .426........ 25.00 Salinas ..........................204........ 2.50
Mill Valley .................. 356....... 25.00 San Benito ............. :.. 211........ 5.00
Mission ....................... .169 ....... 25.00 San Diego
35 ....... 10.00
Mizpah ........................ 378 ........ 10.00 Sanger ......................... 316 ........ 10.00
l\fokelurnne Jiill ........298........ 10.00 San Bernardino .......... 348 ....... 15.00
Monrovia .................... 308........ 10.00 San Fernando ............ 343
5.00
}forning Star ............ 68........ 10.00 San Francisco ........... 360....... 10.00
Mosaic ..........................218 ........ 10.00 San Jacinto .
... 338
5.00
Mount Jackson .......... 295........ 5.00 San Mateo ............... 226........ S.00
Mount Moriah .......... 44........ 25.00 San Miguel ................ .285 ........ 10.00
Mountain View .......... 194........ 2.50 San Pedro .....
....... 332........ 10.00
Natoma ........................ 64........ 5.00 Santa Ana .................. .241... ..... 20.00
Naval ............................ 87........ 5.00 Santa Cruz ................. 38 ........ 10.00
Needles ........................326........ 5.00
San ta ?lfonica ............ 307 ........ 5. 00
K evada ........................ 13........ 5.00 Santa Rosa ................. 57 ........ 20.00
Nicolaus ...................... 129........ 5.00
Selma ........
.. ....... 277 ........ 10.00
Norwalk ......................315........ 2.50 San Simeon .............. .196........ 5.00
Oak Grove ................. .215........ 5.00
Sequoia
....... 349........ 10.00
Occidental .................... 22........ 10.00 Sierra Valley ............ .184........ 5.00
Olive Branch ............. .269........ 10.00 Silveyville ................ :.. 201... ..... 10.00
Ontario .............:.......... 301........ 5.00 Silver Gate .................. 296........ 10.00
Oriental ....................... 144........ 25.00 Sisson ........................310........ 5.00
Orland
........... 265........ 5.00 Snow Mountain ....... .271........ 5.00
Oxnard ....................... 341 ........ 25.00 Sonthe:-n California ... .278 ........ 25.00
Pacific Grove ..............331........ 5.00 South Gate .................. 320........ 5.00
Pajaro ........................ 110........ 10.00 So. Snn Francisco ..... .212 ........ l 0.00

412

GTIAND LODGE 01'' CALlFOHNlA

Amt.
Lodge.
Xo.
Spcr;1ma lt•;lian;1 ..... 219..
10.00
Starr f\:ing
..... 344
10.00
St•i,;un .......................... 55
2.50
Tehachapi .................... 313
10.00
Tehama
.. ... ..... 3 .... 20.00
Texas ..................... .. 46
5.00
Trinity ......................... 27
5.00
Truckee . .................. 200
5.00
Tuscan .
..261
5.00
l'nion
58 .. 25.00
l'plarnl ...................... .419 ....... 5.00

/\mt.
Lotlge.
No.
Vaca1·illc
........... 134 ..
5.00
Vitru1ius
........ .145 ..
10.00
\Vashington
20 .. 20.00
2.50
\Vaucoba ..................... 413 ... .
\Vestern Star .............. 2.... . 10.00
5.00
Wilmington
..198.
5.00
W ooclbridge
.......... .131..
5.00
\V oodlaml .
........... 156
I.SO
Yolo .........
...... 81.
Tslam Temple, A. A.
100.00
0. N. :\f. S.

CHAP'fF.R, R. A. II!.

Clnptcr.
N" o.
Amt.
. \cacia ......................... 64. ... $5.00
. \lamed;t
70...
5.00
.\ntioch ..................... 65..
10.00
.\ntioch ...................... 65.
2.50
.\ztba .
............. 80
5.00
lkrkeky
................ 92..
10.00
California
5.. . 25.00
Coalinga
....... .114
2.50
Dixo!l .
.. 48..
10.00
Doric
..... 66
5.00
Fidelity .................... 96
5.00
Fresno
................. 69
5.00
( ~1 ass V:dley
........ 18
5.00
I fowanl
...... 14
10.00
Hnmbolclt .
... 52
5.00
Kern Valle 0• ............... 75
10.00
Keye.tone
...... 56 ........ 10.00
La PurissirTla ............. 104...... 10.00
Lassen
........ 47........ 5.00
:\[ cndocino
....... 88........ 5.00
".\ f orL '.'to
...... 49 ........ 25.00
n,·lta
27 ....... 5.00

Chapter.
!\ o.
Amt.
Xaval
.................. 35 ........$10.00
X e1·a1la ... .
6........ 5.00
Palo Alto
........ 93
5.00
Petaluma
.............. 22........ 5.00
San Francisco .......... 1.. ...... 10.00
Sacramento . .............. 3........ 25.00
Salinas . ......
....... 59........ 2.50
San Luis ..................... 62........ 5.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 5.00
Shasta
.................... 7 ....... 10.00
Siloam .......................... 37 ........ 10.00
Signet ..................... :.. 57........ 10.00
Sonora .. ..................... 2........ 5.00
Sutter .......................... 11........ 5.00
Temple ........................ 41
10.00
Tulare .......................... 71... ..... 10.00
Trinity .......................... 19........ 5.00
Unity ........................... 116........ 5.00
Vacaville ..................... 81........ 5.00
Washington ..
..... 13........ 10.00
W oodlancl ..
...... 46........ 5.00
"\fill Valley .
... .108..... 10.00

413

co:-1MANDERY, K. T.

Commandery.
No.
Amt.
Bakersfield .................. 39........ $10.00
Berkeley ...................... 42........ 10.00
California .................... 1... ..... 25.00
Eureka ........................ 35 ........ 10.00
Glendale ...................... 53........ 5.00
Golden Gate ................ 16........ 25.00
Golden West .............. 43 ........ 25.00
Hanford ...................... 46 ........ 10.00
Lassen .......................... 13........ 5.00
:\fount Olivet ............ 20........ 5.00
Xapa ............................ 34. ...... 5.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Oakland ...................... 11........ 5.00

Commandery.
No.
Amt.
Pacific .......................... 3........ $ 5.00
Palo Alto .................... 47........ 5.00
Red Bluff .................... 17 ........ 10.00
Saint Bernard ............ 23 ........ 10.00
San Jose ...................... 10........ 5.00
San Luis Obispo ........ 27........ 5.00
Santa Ana .................. 36 ........ 10.00
Santa Cruz .................. 44........ 5.00
Vacaville .. ............... 38........ 5.00
Visalia .......................... 26 ........ 10.00
W oodlancl
............. 21........ 5.00
\V atsonville ................ 22....... 10.00

COUNCIL, R. & S. M .

Council.
California

No.
Amt.
......... 2........ $10.00

Council.
Los .'\ngeks

No.
Amt.
.. IL .. $10.00

LODGE OF PERFECTION, A. & A. s. R.

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
California ................... 10........ $25.00
Fresno .......................... 6........ 5.00
Tsaac Davis ................ 4........ 10.00
Oakland ........................ 2........ 25.00

Lodge.
No.
Arnt.
Pacific .... .. . .............. 5 ....... $ 5.00
San Francisco
....... 25.00
San Jose ................. 13
10.00
Stockton .................... 12 ....... 10.00

CHAPTER, 0. E. S.

Chapter.
No.
Amt.
Golden Rod ................ 221 ........ $10.00
X aomi ........................ 36 ........ 25.00

Chapter.
Semper Fidelis
\Vhcatlarnl

No.
Arnt.
... 135
.$ 5.00
....... 213 ······· 10.00

INDlVIDUALS.

Thos. ]. Baker ...................... $10.00
John 0. Gantner .................... ' 1.00

"\[ember, Live Oak Lodge
No. 61 .................................. $ 5.00

The following is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto
Home, the dates of their admission, their respective ages, the names and
numbers of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such
Lodges:

414

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'TIOCEEDINGS OF TI-IE
NAME.

MEN 80
~~ME.

ADMITTEn

Anderson, C. ,\
.Feb.
9, '09
Andrews, R ..................... Oct. 25, '02
Branthan:r, D
........... _Jan. 18, '04
Dradbnry, Wm. \\' .......... Oct. 29, '14
Bradley, John H .............. Oct. 12, '07
Dartholcmew, J. S .......... J nne 15, '13
Bullier, Leon --------·-·-·-----J nly
2, '12
Deck, John -----·--··- .......... Aug. 29, '12
C1stcllaw, T. A ................ l\fay 2, '10
Chamblin, .:\I. R. ............. Sept. 28, '10
Chapman, J. :'IL .............. Oct.
6, '11
Cogs\Yell, Jam es L. ......... May 19, 'lS
Cramer, George F ........ May 11, '13
Dolt, Alexander ............ l\f ay 18, '99
Dennis, \Villiam ............ Feb. 28, '11
Dmant, Francis A .......... May S, '13
Fielder, John L. ............... Jan. 20, 'IS
Frasier, John .................. June 12, '00
French, John A ........... _Jnne 8, '07
Fink, Conracl ................ Aug. 23. '12
8, '14
Gates, Dawson D .......... Feb.
Griffiths, B. J _______________ Aug. 30, '13
Hendrick, Roht. C ....... Aug. 11, '10
ITodgc, Edward T ....... Feb. 26, '15
Tf amilton. John ___________ Feb.
6. '15
Jcmrn, ?\iels P ............. July 22, '07
J cffcrs, S. ____________ ....... Jan.
5. '10
Johns, Josiah
......... Apr. 15, '12
Johnson. DaYicl ......... Ang. 29, '13
Kerr. Far!
_ .. Sept. 11, '09
l\:ccn,._ J:1mcs
_ Sert. 4. 'IO
Knickcrliocker. ~iles ... .]nne 8. '15
!\:night, Lewis \V ......... Apr.
2, '14
La Donte, Francis X .. ___ !'\01•. 2, '14
Lippoldt. 11. A.. .. ....... _Jan. 20, '07
Linclscr. On·ille A ....... Aug. 30, '13
Lippman, George ________ Nov. 2, '13
l\fa)"lT, Joseph __________ _Jan. 10. 'IO
:-lag cc. Dai id ll _______ ... \pr. 19, '11
:-rnhtcn,;. Riclt:ml
... Nov. 12, '13
:-rallory. Charles P .... Ang. 31, '14
:-f:llliccc. John
______ _June 17, '15

LODGE.

~dyers,
NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

.:\Tt. Moriah
44 San Francisco .. 67
Stanislaus .............. 206 Modesto ..........93
Durant ................... .268 Berkeley ..........8S
St. Helena .............. 93 St. Helena ..... .71
Keith ...................... 187 Gilroy .............. 8S
l\Tt. Jack son ......... .29S Guerneville .... 67
Texas ...................... 46 San Juan ..........86
Summit ................. .112 Knight's Ferry.83
Clear Lake ........... .183 Lower Lake .... 77
Hartley .................. 199 Lakeport .......... 87
Concord .................. 117 Sacramento .... 65
California .............. 1 San Francisco .. 86
Liberty .................... 299 Santa Clara ....60
Rising Star ____________ 83 Forest Hill ..... .70
Sierra Valley ....... .184 Sierraville ...... 83
FruitYale ................ 336 Fruitvale __________ 77
Howard .................. 96 Yreka .............. S9
Benicia .................... S Benicia ............88
W cstern Star ........ 2 Shasta ..............81
Hermann ............... .127 San Francisco .. 77
Eden ....................... .113 San Leandro .... 62
Clay ......................... .101 Dutch Flat ......84
Enterprise -------------- 70 Yuba City ........80
South Gate .......... 320 Los Angeles .... 71
II umboldt ............ 79 Eureka ............ 67
Golden Gate .......... 30 San Francisco .. 63
Eden ....................... 113 San Leandro. ... 77
East Belt
.. 391 Tuolumne ........62
Santa .:\Tonica ....... 307 Santa l\fonica ..83
Pacific -----------·---·· ..136 San Francisco .. 78
l\ r endocino
179 Mendocino ...... 78
Pentalpha
.... 202 Los Angeles ____ 74
Evergre<:>n _____________ .2S9 Riverside ........ 66
Reading _________________ .254 Redding .......... 68
Northern Light ... .190 Millville ..........8S
Rio Vista
........ .208 Rio Vista ....... 77
Pacific
... .136 San Francisco ..71
.:\Tokelunmc Hi!L.298 Mok'lum'e Hill.86
Doric _____________________ .216 San Francisco .. 74
Crockett
__________ .139 San Francisco .. 70
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange ........... 71
San Diego
35 San Diego .... 79

ADMITTED.

Oliver H. ........... Ang. 29, '12
Meyer, Wm. D .............. Ang. 31, '12
Morgan, Josiah W ...... Ang. 11, '14
McEwen, John H .......... Aug. 21, '13
Ogden. B. F .................... Apr. 19, '05
Ong, Jackson W ............ May 12, 'lS
Osterdock, Peter .......... Mar. 9, '14
Parini, Daniel ................ Feb. 10, '14
Payne, Edwin H .......... Mar. 23, '14
Potting, H cnry F .......... May 2, '11
Preston, ]. C\ .................. May 22, '12
Palmer, George ............ Oct. 20. '12
Potts, Archibald R. ....... Feb. 21, '14
Roberts, S. A .................. Feb. 26, '01
Robertson, Wm. B ........ Jnly 2S, '14
Redican, B. ....................... Mar. 1, 'OS
Rumbo!, R. F .................. Jan. 30, '08
Redmond, Samuel ........ Ang. 21, '10
Rauch, Alexander ........ Oct. 2S. '10
Reed, B. H ...................... Apr. 12. '12
Ross, Elias £ .................. Nov. 12, '14
Rowley, Alba nus B. ....... Oct. 19, '14
Spencer, T. C.. ................ Aug. 2S, '12
Smith, Eli l\L .. :............. N ov. 2S, '00
Schneider, Edward W .. Sept. 13, '08
Scull, Charles ................ Sept. 11, '09
Stanton, Andrew P ...... Ang. 16, '11
Stafford, Ralph L.. ........ Feb. 17, '14
Strom, John .................. July 12, '14
Tupper, John H ............ Feb. 14, '09
Trampleasnre, T. £ ...... Aug. 30, '13
Tack, Nicolas ................ Oct. 29, '10
Wade, Reuben A. S ...... Mar. 27, 'lS
Wooley, E. B.......
.... Dec. 29, '03
Whipple, Wm. M .......... Mar. 6, '09
Zaun, Sabastian ............ Aug. 7, '14
Zimmermann, W. T ...... Feb.
2, '10

LODGE.

415
NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

Starr King
.344 San Francisco..70
I\fonntain View ... .194 Mountain V'w .. S4
Phoenix .................. 178 S. Bernardino ..83
Pajaro -·----------- ..... .110 Watsonville ... .70
Y\Tission ................. .169 San Francisco .. 76
Hornitos .............. 98 Hornitos ......... 8S
Fraternity
.... 399 San Jose .........87
Nevada ................... 13 Nevada City ... .77
Whittier .................. 323 Whittier .......... 77
So. San Francisco .. 212 San Francisco .. 67
South Gate ............ 320 Los Angeles ... .83
Amity .......
.. ... 370 San Francisco .. 68
East Gate
..... .290 Los Angeles .... 7S
Bear Mountain ______ 76 Angels Camp ..87
Yount
.... 12 Napa ................ 66
Los Angeles .... ----- 42 Los Angeles ....91
Redwood Citr ........ 168 Redwoocl City ..SS
Truckee
......... .200 Truckee ......... .71
Nevada
...... 13 Nevada City ... .84
Trinity
...... 27 Weaverville ....82
Ophir
-------· 33 Murphy's ........ 68
San Jose ................ IO San Jose .......... 83
Chico ..................... .111 Chico ................67
Concord .................. 117 Sacramento .... 85
Oriental ................. 144 San Francisco .. 71
Excelsior .............. .166 San Francisco ..78
Pacific ..................... .136 San Francisco .. 78
Granite .................. 222 Rocklin ............ 67
l\ft. Moriah ............ 44 San Francisco ..61
Petaluma ............... .180 Petaluma ....... .7S
Occidental .............. 22 San Francisco .. 77
Crescent .................. 4S Crescent City ..81
So. California ....... .278 Los Angeles ....67
Alcatraz .................. 244 Oakland ..........86
Brentwood ............. .24S Brentwood ...... 82
Inyo
.............. .221 Independence .. 88
Abell ....................... 146 Ukiah -----·-·-------.75

417

GRANll LOPGI•: 01'' c.u.rn-oRNIA

416

PROCE:EDING8 OF THE
NM,!£.

WOM.EN
N.UtE.

ADMITTED.

45

'LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION,

ACE.

Ame,;, :\Iinnie p _________ . .Oct. 21, '13 Oak Grove ··----------215 Alameda ......... 58
Baxter, :'.IL
16, '02 Santa Rosa ....... __ 57 Santa Rosa .... 78
Briggs, :\Iary 1------··-···--:\ pr. 24, '07 Long Beach ·-···--···- 327 Long Beach ... .79
Child, Susan A .............. Aug. 30, '13 Oakland ·--··---·----·---.188 Oakland ..........68
Donaldson. A. R ....... ____ l\far. 10, '14 Vacaville ·-·---- ....... .134 Vacaville ..........83
Dyer, Sarah -·-·-·--·------·--··July 17, '00 Oriental ·····------··-----144 San Franciseo ..77
Dunlap, R. E--------------·--·Sept. 23, '09 Keith ·------ -------···-···187 Gilroy ............. .78
Elder. :\L _L.
-.. --··----Jan. 8. '08 Pacific .... ---·-··· ...... .136 San Francisco ..83
Elliott, .\. J\L .............. May 1, '04 ·Occidental --·-····-- ___ 22 San Francisco .. 74
Fountain, H. E. ............. Sept. 7, '06 Evergreen ............. .259 Riverside ........83
Fuller, C. T .. ____ ------- ... Feb.
9, '08 .Michigan City
47 Michigan City .. 71
Fields, Bessie :M ........... Mav 23, '13 Hesperian ..............264 Santa Maria .... 82
(;rant, Permclia E........ Fcb.
2, '11 .\ntioch ----------·------·175 Antioch ........... .7S
House ..\rnancb
Sept. 13. '08 Georgetown . --··-· 25 Georgetown .... 77
If eith, Catherine .. ______ Oct. 16, '10 l:i'rcsno ··-···-··-···-- ... .247 Fresno ·-····-·-··---69
Julian, R l\L.......
..Jan.
7. '00 Madison ---··--··---··---· 23 Grass Valley .. --42
Joh11so11, ".\L...
. ... 1\far. 6. '03 Summit ·--···-····-- .... 112 Knight's Ferry.65
Knight, Anna R ·---·---··-Apr. 2, '14 Evergreen ··-·------ ... 259 Riverside ........67
:\Jc Kinnon, .:\L A ....... Dec. 31, '14 '\Torning Star ··--- __ 68 Stockton ..........67
.:\Iallory, Anna
31, '14 Orange Grove. _____293 Orange ............61
:\Iucller. Elizabeth _______ Aug. 12, '14 Benicia
5 Benicia ........... .73
:\Toor<', Emily ?\__
.... :\fay 7, '12 J\fadison
__ -···--··· 23 Grass Valley ....83
!\fast, Frances C. .......... Aug. 31. '12 Yosemite ..
.... .133 Coulterville .... 70
.'.\'"ash, :'.IL A... ·-- ----- -June 11. '01 Palmyra ____
__ ·- 26 Placerville ...... 77
Pierce, X. ·-·.... Feb. 5_. '14 Pacific
_________ JJ6 San Francisco.72
Peacock, L.
--------··Aflr. 2, '00 .\lameda ·-·-··- ........ 167 Centerville ......88
Potting. Nellie E ---- .... .i\fay 2, '11 So. San Francisco..212 San Francisco.. 71
Proll, Anna R. G...
...Feb.
5, '15 King Solomon's ... .260 San Francisco.. 58
Robinson, L ... ____________ .... Dec. 19, '03 Enreka ·-··--·· ·-·---···-· 16 Auburn ............85
Redican. 1\T. ;\_ .
.J\far. 1, 'OS Los Angeles --· ---··- 42 Los Angeles ....84
Rean:s, .:\Iary :'.\TcD .... June 8, '13 Bear Mountain ···- 76 Angels Camp..79
Rossi. Josephine
..... Oct. 20. '14 .·\lhambra ·-----····-·-·--322 Alhambra ........55
Seeley, >:ancy C.. ..... Sept. 3, '10 .:\famanita
....... .102 N. San Juan .... 79
Smith. Eliza 1--- ----- .June 11. '13 Pinole __ . --··--··--···--353 Pinole --·-··--·-····82
Smith, .\nnie
12. 'IS California
____ I San Francisco..74
Smith. Elizabeth
.Aug. ZR, '13 Friendship
__ ..... .210 San Jose ..........72
Sawyer, Ell:! IL
_____ •\ug. 30. '13 "\'atoma
64 Folsom ----·-------65
Sly, Ellen S..
______ Nov. 5, '13 Sih·er Gate
..296 San Diego ......70
Smalley. Emily A ________ .June 22. '14 Santa Ana ·--- ...... 241 Santa Ana ........ 72
Thonia>. F_ \V___
_ .Jan. 4. '04 Abell ...
·---··--.146 Ukiah ·-·---------····87
Valliant. S. E
.. Oct. 13, '11 Washington
20 Sacramento ....78

ADMITTED.

Wentworth. L ... ----···--·Feb.
6, '00
Wooley, Jane ·--·-------·.Dec. 29, '03
Wells, Mary -··-·······-··-··-Oct. 27, '12
\Vrig-l;t, Sarah G. __ ,_ .... Sept. 13, '14

LODGI(.

NO.

LOCATION.

Hawaiian
···-----·-·· 21
:;lcatraz ..................244
Golden Gate ............ 30
Eden ___ . _
.113

AGE.

Honolulu ....... .70
Oakland ..........81
San Francisco .. 77
San Leandro .... 77

DI(ll Dl!RJNG THE Y(.\R-10
Bt:RJJ(D AT

DATE.

:'\.\M(,

Decoto
Decoto
Oakland
Deco to
Deco to
Deco to
Oakland
Deco to
Los Angele,;
Deco to

Ashburn: H. A ....... -·--···--··--··------·-·· l\fay 29, '15
Chamberlain, Joseph -·--······----·--····---Mar. 5, '15
Farrington, Elvin D.
........... Jan. 21, '15
Forbes, Hector ----·-··-·---··· __ ··--··-····-···-May 9. '15
Hallock, R. F.
28, '14
Rewcastle, J. G... ·----·--·--· _···-----·--·····-.Nov. 25, '14
Stivers, Henry F--·-··--·-···-----····---··-····--.:\Iar. 27, '13
Welch, William W---···----·-····-····-------Apr. 29. 'IS
·warren, Robert B---·---·--·-··--····----··-·--··Feb.
9, '15
\Vhitelaw, John ·-----·-··· ··----·-··--- ........ J unc 4, '15
VOLUN1'ARY DEPARTURES

Beattie-, J. W. C -·-·--·-·· ..... ····-·--··-·-- .. Feb.
Lewis, George L.-·--·--·- ····-----·--·--·--··-·-Dec.

5, '15
6, '14

R(SJJ)(NTS AT SAN GABRJEL HOME

The following is a complete list of the children of the San Gabriel
Home, the date of their admission, their respective ages, the names and
numbers of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such
Lodges:
BOYS 38, ADULTS 1.
NAM(.

ADMITTED.

Andreae, Frederick .... Apr. 20, 1915
Borland, Robert M ...... l\fay 21, 1913
Borland, John C .......... May 21, 1913
Brown, Edmund E ...... June 15, 1915
Brown, Herbert E ...... June 15. 1915
Brown, Newell ............ Jan. 25, 1910
Buletti, Antonio .......... Nov. JO, 1907
Crego, Wm. Hunter .... Sept. 15, 1912
Cadwell, Geo. Henry ..Oct. 20, 1913
Evers, Emrov Vivian .. Mav 27, 1914
Fisher, Harrison .......... Ma~. 8, 1914
Fisher, John Elmer .... Mar. 8, 1914

LODCE.

NO.

Pasadena --··---·----···.272
Richmond .............. 375
Richmond .............. 375
Pentalpha ............. .202
Pentalpha ............... 202
Wilmington _--··-·----198
Speranza-Ital. _______ .219
Sunset --··----··· _..... 352
Board of RelieL ..
Live Ooak ........... -- 61
Presidio ....... ··-·- .... 354
Presidio ................. 354

LOCATION.

,

AGE.

Pasadena ....... .l 1
San Francisco .. 11
San Francisco.JO
Los Angeles .. .11
Los Angeles .... 9
Wilmington ... JS
San Francisco.. lS
Los Angeles .... 8
San Francisco.. 9
Oakland .......... 13
San Francisco.. 6
San Francisco .. 8

418

l'ROCH:EDlNGS OF THE

:-u:-ric.
AD~!lTTED.
Fisher, \Vm. Donglas .. Apr. 10, 1913
French, FerdinancL ... A.pr. 7, 1906
Gill, Geo. Harvey ........ Dec. 14, 1912
Howard, Homer E ..... Feb. 17, 1913
Tloward, Lester W .... Oct. I, 1912
I lyner, Lewis ________________ ] nnc 14, 1912
Lakey. D;ile ________________ .\far. I. 1910
Lakey. J\Iyron ______________ .\far. I. 1910
\"'cnstadt. Lanrence .... Jtme 20. 1914
Pattison, K S. T ________ July 12. 1911
Pattison, Francis H ....Jtmc 7. 1912
Quentin, A.lhert. __________ Dec. 18. 1909
Ramsay. Frederick ...... Apr. 19, 1910
Rice, Jas. Peter.. .......... Jnly 2. 1915
Riley. Jahicl T _____________ \pr. II, 1911
Robert ..•\lbert Lucas ...\ng. I I, 1913
Raftery, Earl :\lhert...\pr. 1I, 1913
Schnitz. Chas. L----------Jnne 14. 1910
Shain, David Halver..Oct. 10. 1914
Siegel. Chas. Robert.Aug. 8. 1915
Tate. Lanrence ____________ Aug-. 16. 1912
Tilston, Cecyl C.......... Sept. 23, 1913
\Ychre, Victor ............ Ang_ 28, 1913
Westfall. John B __________ :\ng_ 18, 1913
Wingate, Jas. Baker.. .. Feb. 20, 1911
Wingate, D. McL ........ Feh. 20, 1911
Bettes. Adonir;im L .... :\ug. 17, 1900

LODGE.
NO.
Presidio
________ 354
Ashlar -------------- .. 306
Highland Park ...... 382
Oriental
______ J44
Oriental __________________ 144
Volcano ------------------ 56
Gardena __________________ 372
Gardena __________________ 372
Sunset ____________________ 352
Crockett __________________ 139
Crockett _________________ _139
Mission ------------- .... 169
Golden Gate..
__ 30
Martinez _______________ 41
Volcano _______ __ ____ 56
.\fizpah ___________________ 378
.'\ cedles _________________ 326
Santa Paula. _________ .291
Board of Relief______
Table Monntain ... .124
Los Banos ............ 312
.\mity _____________________ 370
Bakersfield ____________ 224
Mission _________________ 169
.\fission ________________ J69
Pasadena .. ____________ .272

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION.
AGE.
San Francisco .. 9
Colton _____________ .13
Los Angeles ... .10
San Francisco .. 7
San Francisco .. 14
Volcano __________ ll
Gardena __________ 13
Gardena _________ .14
Los Angeles ... .10
San Francisco .. 14
San Francisco .. 10
San Francisco.JO
13
San Francisco.. 8
Martinez _________ _14
Volcano _________ J2
Los Angeles ____ 9
Needles ____________ 13
Santa Paula .... 9
Los Angeles ____ 9
Cherokee _______ _14
Los Banos ........ 13
San Francisco .. 9
Bakersfield ...... 10
San Francisco .. 14
San Francisco ..! 0
Pasadena ________ 72

GlRLS 24, ADULTS J.
XA:llE.
ADMITTED.
Borlancl, Jessie Gray .. .\fay 21. 1915
Brown, Margaret.. ...... ] ;ia_ 30, 1910
Bulctti, Margharita ... S ov. 10, 1913
Crego, Dorothy E ........ Sept. 15, 1912
Fisher, Ruth HazeL ....\Iar. 8, 1914
Fisher, Alice Eliz ......... J\far. 8, 1914
Fisher, M urieL ........... Mar. 8, 1914
French. I smena ____________ Dec. 30. 1903
I Tyner, Edith G ____________ June 14, 1908
.'\ cnst;iclt. Henrietta ____ ] une 20, 1914
Pritchard, Ruth E ........ Jnne 14. 1915
Riley. Effie A. M ........ Apr. II, 1911
Riley. Rebecca _______________\pr. 11, 1911

I

~-

LODGE.
NO.
Richmond ______________ 375
\\'ilmington __ _________ _198
Speranza-Ital. ________ 219
Sunset ____________________ 352
Presidio __________________ 354
Presidio ______________ 354
Presidio _________________ 354
Ashlar ______
______ 306
Volcano
------- 56
Sunset ------------- ________ 352
Phoenix --------- ....... 178
]\J artinez
-···-··- 41
Martinez ---···- ---····- 41

LOCATION.
AGE.
San Francisco .. 7
Wilmington .... 12
San Francisco .. 15
Los Angeles ... .10
San Francisco .. 11
San Francisco .. 13
San Francisco.. 5
Colton ______________ 15
Volcano _________ .! 4
Los Angeles ... .12
S. Bernardino .. 12
Martinez _________ _JI
Martinez
8
'

419

NAME.
ADMITTED.
LODGE.
NO. LOCATION.
AGE.
Ramsay, May ................ Apr. 19, 1910
11
Robert, Emily Eliz ...... Aug. 27, 1910 Volcano -----------------· 56 Volcano .......... 14
Raftery, Bernice .......... May 11, 1913 Mizpah ____________________ 378 Los Angeles .... 7
Siegel, Nellie ................ Ang. 8, 1913 Board of Relief______
Los Angeles .... 13
Siegel, Halcyon ............ Aug. 8, 1915 Board of Relief______
Los Angeles .... 7
Stevens, Irene .............. Feb. 25, 1910 Agreement Ed. Trust.
13
Virgo, Alice Mary .. ,... Dec. 5, 1913 Mizpah ____________________ 378 Los Angeles .... 10
Virgo, Sadie Vincent..Dec. 5, 1913 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles .... 7
Westfall, Louise E ...... Aug. 18, 1913 Bakersfield ............ 224 Bakersfield ______ 5
Westfall, Grayce E ...... Aug. 18, 1913 Bakersfield ____________ 224 Bakersfield ...... 7
Trumbull, Mary..........
84
DEPARTURES DURING THE YEAR-15.
REASON.
NAME.
DATE.
Clairville, Hen1·y .............. K ov. 12, 1914 At work. Lives at clnb.
Clairville, J osephine........ J an. 6, 1915 Living with family.
Curry, Kenneth C ____________ June 18, 1915 Mother married.
Donovan, Ethel.. ................ ] uly 5, 1915 Training for nurse.
Evers, Henry .................... May I, 1915 At work. Lives at club.
Fisher, Marian .................. Sept. 14, 1914 Sent to private 'chool.
Howard, Helena E----------J an. 31, 1915 Adopted by Mason.
Haensel, Gertrude E ...... July 6, 1914 Living with family.
Robert, Clovis J ohn .......... Sept. 26, 1914 With relatives at Stockton.
Tilston, Arthur N ............ Nov. 12, 1914 At work. Lives at cluh.
Waisteel, Robert H .......... Dec. 21, 1914 Mother married.
Waisteel, Thomas J __________ Dec. 21, 1914 Mother married.
Warren, Ulmer E .............. Sept. I, 1915 Sent to advance<! school by prominent
Mason.
Willis, MillicenL .............. Sept. I, 1915 Twin sisters.
Being educated hy
wealthy Mason and wife.
Willis, Mildred .................. Sept. 1, 1915

REPORT O'N' GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
Brother 0. L. Sues. Chairnian of the Committee to
which had been referred the Address of the Grand Master
and the report of the Grand Secretary, presented the following report, which was acloptecl:
To the JI[.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee to whom was referred the address of the Grand
?\faster and the report of the Grand Secretary, snhmittecl to this
Grand Lodge, beg leave to report as follows:
We have read the address of the :Vf .'. \V .'. Grand Master with
great interest, and find it to he a mmt exemplary ancl carefully written
document, teeming with Masonic logic ;ind covering in detail the

420

Pl-lOCI~EUINGS

OF' TH I•~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

cxi,;ting co11chtio11,; in this grand jurisdiction. There arc many wise
:;uggcstions made therein, which commcnds thc address to the careful
perusal and thoughtful consideration. not alone of this Grand Lodge,
hut of even· ;\lasm~ in the State of California.
Your ~ommittce im·ite particular attention to the question of
rcimhurscmcnt for moneys exprnded for relief, as set forth on ,pages
2.2 and 23; the question of the ";\lasonic War Relief Association"
rderrct! to 011 pages 28 to 35, and the qucstion of the ";\fasonic Temple
\ssociation," referred to on pages 35. 36, 37 and 38 of the address,
upon which we recommend action at this session of the Grand Lodge.
:" suggested hy the i\J. ·. \V. ·. Grand Master.
Your committee recommend distrilmtion of the various matters
touched upon in the address, as follows:
To the Committee on J urispruclcnce: The matter of fee for dispensation to 1ill vacancy caused by death or resignation of an officer
of a Lodge, as referred to on page 8 of the acldress.
Consolidation of Lodges as suggested on pages 43 and 44 of the
;1ddress.
Rccomrnend;ilion to chang" scct10n 208a of our Constitution as
relates to ;\lasouic trials, rekrred to on page 45 of the address.
Proposed constitutiou:d ameuclment to cinnge the place of meeting oi the Crand Lodge' to Los Angeles every third year, beginning
with the Far 5916, as suggested by the l\f.'. \V.'. Grand l\Iastcr on
pages 53 and 54 of the address.
To the Committee on Correspondence: Recognition of the Grand
Orirnt of Ttaly as discussed on pages 27 and 28 of the address.
To the Committee on Ritual: Thc nse of twelve fellowcrafts in thc
conferring of rkµrccs as referred to on page 41 of the address.
REPORT OF 'fHE GRAND SECRETARY.

The report of the Grand Secretary shows thc usual careful detail
and thoroughness which has hcen the predominating characteristic of
the incumbent.
Special attention is mvited to page 3 of his report wherein he
refers to suspensions and suggests a possible remedy.
Your committee recommend distribution of the matters contained
i11 this report, as follows:
To the· Commit!ce 011 Jurisprudence: The snhjccts of special
dispensations.
Tl1e question of dimih in the formation of ncw Lmlges ;h rcic-rrc<i 10 <,n page 3.
To the Finance' Committee: The subject of the special Emergency
Relid Fund.
Tlie s~1hject of \,·arrants and the su:iject of accounts.

421

To the Committee on Grie\'ances and Appeals: The transcript of
trial records.
To the Committee on Charter:,: The charters of the vanons
Loch.?es urnkr dispensation.
To the Committee on Dy-Laws: Proposed amendments to ByLaws heretofore approved by the Grand ]\faster, ancl other amendments to By-Laws of vnious subordinate Lodges.
Respectfnlly submitted,
0. L. SuEss.
\VM. R. FL1N1',
E. H. l\IcGowrn-.
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF QUEE:\'SLA:'\D.
Past Grand :\Taster Edward H. Hart. Chairman of the
Committee on Correspondence. presented the request of the
Grand Lodge of Queensland for recognition. and reported
as follows. which report was unanimously adopted:
To the Jf.'. w.·. Grn11d Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Foreign Correspondence to whom has been
referred the rcqnest for recog·nition as a Sovereign Grand Lodge of
the Granrl Lodge of Ancient. FL·e and Accepted :\[asons of Queensland. Australia, hegs lea 1·e tn ,ubmit the following report:
Prior to 1903, Queensland. A ustraiia, was occupied. l\Iasonically
speaking, by subordinate Lodges chartered by the sevcral Grand Lodges
of England, Scotland and Ireland.
March 23. 19'J3, a convention properly called and composed of sixtytwo delegates from thirty-six Lodges in Queemland met for the purpose of forming a Grand Lodge, and in August of that year a Grand
Lodge was formed by thirty-nine Lodges of the Trish and Scottish
constitntions. There were no representatives from the English Lodges
in Queensland, for the reason that the English Lodges were expressly
forbidden by the Grand Lodge under which they held charters to eveii
consider or discuss the question of the formation of a Grand Lodge of
Queensland.
Past Grand :\Tasler Rohbins of Illinois (since deceased) one of
the foremost authorities on Masonic jnrisprudencc, has stated as a
part of thc doctrine governi•1g the formation of Crane\ Lodges which
has prn·ailed in the llnited Statcs, th:1t "it is a well settled doctrinc
that when in opl'n autonomons territory, a snfficient number of Lodges
exist to orgauize a Gr~ncl Lodge, the right of such Lodges to discuss
within themselves :md to determine for themselves the expediency of
such ;:iction :rnd to confer with any and all other Lodges similarly

PHOCEEDING<l OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA

situated upon all questions growing out of such proposed organization,
without duress from a1;y other qaarter, is indefeasible, and we hold it
to he equally settled, that when a majority of Lodges in such open
;1ut01rn111011s lcrritor:>-nol lc,s than three Lodges agreeing theretounitc to. forn' a Ci-and Lodge, the proceedings attending its• formah111 h;l\·rng bel·n rcgt:iar and all the Lodges interested having been
i1 1vited to participat" therein, such Cram! Lodge becomes at once the
ultimate scurce of "\lasonic authority m such territory, and entitled
to suprclll<' and exclmivc jurisdiction coterminous with its political
bnundaries."

Brother Hart also presented his general review of the
Proceedings of other jurisdictions, and printed copies being
in the hands of representatives present, the reading thereof
was omitted, and it was ordered to he bound with the Proceedings of Grand Lodge.

Your committee- are ;1hle to state:
First, the Lodges forming the Grand Lodge of Queensland trace
their origi'.1 h regular and legitimate :mcient craft Masonrv. All of
them were chartered either by the Grand Lollge of Engla~d or the
Crand Lodge of Scotland.
Secondly, the Gnml Lodge of Queensland, applying to us for
n·rngnitio11, was regularly fornwd by a majority of the Lodges within
the territory that were free to take ;iction in the matter, and hence a
111ajoriiy of all of the qualiried Lodges within the territory, according
to authoritati1·e construction oi the law .upon the subject.
Thirdly. the Grand Lodge of Queensland docs not yield allegiance
or ohcdicncc in any sense whatever to any other 1\1 asonic f>occcr. lt
is absolutely rnvercign and supreme within its territory.
Fourthly, this Cram! Lodge confines its authority, and the exercise
thereof. to the thr,ce degree,: of Craft Masonry.
Fifthly, this Cram\ Lndge recognizes and supports the ancient
lu11d11rnrl<.'.
Since the formation of this Grand Lodge in 1904, with 39 subordinates. the number of c!1artcr~d Lodges has increased to 65 with a
present membership of nwre than 2600. It is discharging in a capable
manner its }fasonic obligations of benevolence, relief, and otherwise,
and has receiver! formal recognition as a SoverPign Grand Lodge hy
48 !'IIa:mnic Grand Jurisdictiom r1f the world, 33 of this number being
.-\merican Grand Lodges.
This (~rand Lodge havi!1g been, in our opinion. rcgnlarly formed.
and complying with all of the conditions upon which recognition is
propnly based, we, therefore, recommend that fraternal recognition
he extended by the Grand Lodge of Califorl'lia to the Grand Lodge of
"·\ncient, Free and ,'\ccepted Masons of Queensland.
Respectfully submitted,

Eow ARD fl. HART,
Chairman of Committee on Correspondence.

-- -

--------

-------- - - - - - - - - -

423

REPORT OF C01\Il\1ITTEE O:>: ACCOCNTS.
Brother Hugh J. Owen, for the Committee on Accounts,
reported as follows:
To the M.". W.". Gra11d Lodge of California:
Since the la"t Annual Comn;unication of this Grand Lodge your
Committee on Accounts has rcgl'larly met on the last Saturday in each
and every month and carefully examined and audited all bills presented
throughout the year, none having been paid without the approval of said
committee; the committee being al all times most agreeably assisted
]>y our most efficient and worthy Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
H. J. OWEN,
FRED B. \.Voon,

E. E. CONN,
Com mi ttec.

The report was adoptec\.
SPECIAL co:.nIITTEE ():;\ RESOLCTIO.\'S.
The Grand Master then announced the names of the
Special Committee to consider and report upon the resolutions of Past Grand l\Iaster Henderson and the brethren
of San Jose, as follows: \Villiam P. Filmer, Edward H .
Hart, Joseph H. Stephens, \Villiam H. Waste. Hugh J.
Owen.
REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER.
The Grand Lecturer presented his annual report, as
follows:
To the M.'. TV.'. Grand Lodge of California:
\.V c again meet in Annual Communication, a ft er another busy
year, tQ give an account of our labors, meeting as we do on this the

GH..\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

424

425

l'IWCEEDlNGS OF THE

·
1···g,·
· f orma! ion
which ui\'(' in de ta ii yaiuah I c m
',, 11·1!i11g the Lt)dges amt the

twdith day of October, the day made hbtoric by Coitlmbus in his
discovery of the fairest land the sun ever shone upon, our own America. \V c therefore thank the Great Giver oi all good for having been
pkascd in His infinite mercy to grant us another year of peace and
.\farnnic prosperity, \Ve again beseech Him that this may continue
and we sincerely trust that God will be merciful to the many brethren
who are engaged in the terrible struggle in Europe, and that peace
may soon prevail.
It has been my pleasure to have visited every district in the
jurisdiction and to have held school:.; of instruction (both day am!
night sessions), the officers and brethren all showing a great interest
by their attendance and close attention to getting and correcting themseln~s in the work
The Lodges generally ha\'e had a good, healthy growth the past
year, and a large majority of them arc financially prosperous; others
not quite so fortunate, hown·er, on account of paying off the indehtedness 011 their Temples.
There have bet'n seven new Lodges granted clispensations this
year, all doing considerable work since organization, and all manifesting a keen desire to perfect themselves in the ritu;1L
There appears to be rather too much attention givc!l to increase
in membership in some of the Lodges. I helicve it is posodble for a
Lodge to have too many candidates; that is, more than the officers
can properly confer the degrees upon. They are apt to lose some
of the impressiveness in their hurry to get through. \Ve want quality
and not quantity, '\' e want to make the brother who receives the
degrees feel as thcugh he was getting something worth while-not
mere words, but something tangible, something that he is to practice
in his business, in his home life, and in his dealings with his fellow
man-to make him not only a l\[aster :'vlason but a l'vfaster l\fan.
The tendency among some ,\fosters seems to lw that tlwy may
say they have raised as many or more than their predecessor. 'vVc
want l\lasons, not mere contributing members; those who will practice
out of the Lodge the great principles that are inculcated therein,
I ha\'c had the pleasure of accompanying the .'\I.'. \V.', Grand
.'\faster on several of his \'i>its. The Lodges and brethren regret that
the l\fost \Vorshipfol could not find time to m:ike many more such visits.
for they were greatly appreciated hy tlrnse favored.
l desi1·e to thank the V.', \V.'. Cram! Sccrdary and his rnlnahlc
assistant for the mally courtesit'S extended during the year.
1 ha\'c recei1««l reports from all the Inspectors, and they all gi1c
good ac,~otmts of the Lodges oycr which they preside. 1 regret that
space will nol permit the printing m full of some of these reports,

lrnsines~ transactt:d throughout the year.

l ,· ·1 1 to thank the Inspectors and brethren for the many courwis
·
.
... ,
d t) highlv commend
tesies and assistance rendered during t 11: ) L,ll, an
c
them for the splendid work they arc clomg.
lf it is the will and pleast:re of the Grand Lod.ge, I_ woulr'. suggest
that the Tns1)ectors he furnished with writing material with their names
~ I ti 1 <11' ·t1·ict which thev represent printed thereon. to ,how 1!1at the,:
,<JH
"
s
·
· is
· <\ltc ti iem
·
tor thur
are Officers
of the Grand- Lodge. I hehe\'C
t I11s
work.
l\Tany jurisdictions furnish this to their Inspectors.
r
D· · wi'II con i·er tl1e First
The Officers of Bethlehem Lodge U.
•
J
I
I
\
Degree, at the invitation of Ric 1mom ,m gc >i'o. 375, on \\'edne~(lay
evening. October 13th.
'
11ayc \1ce11 l1eld at the following placec; and
Lodges of instnict10n
times:
1914
.SO\·ember 20
.October 17-18 Kerman
San Francisco ..
......... :\ ovember 21
.... October 24 :\laclera
Santa Clara
.. November 2.2
Salinas ........
..October 25 Fresno
.... >i'ovcmber 23
King City
...... October 26 Coalinga
.. :\ owmbcr 24
Paso Robles ..........
... October 27 Hanford
.... X ovcmber 27
San Luis OhiSpo.....
..October ~ Suisun
Non~mhcr 29
Oakland
........ October 30 Oakland
..... December 3
Redwood City
..... October 31 Auhun.1
....... __ ....... December 4
Richmond
... November 1 Roseville
..... December 5
....... November 2 Davis
Dixon
....... December 7
.-... Xovember 5 Crockett ..
Folsom ,
... December 10
... November 6 j\fartinez
Woodland .. .
.... December 14
Yuha City ................. November 8 Sebastopol ........
..December 15
... November 9 Healdsburg ...
Riggs _......
.. December 17
......... November JO s;mia Rosa ··Oroville ..
'Walnut
Creek
.........
_
.. December 19
11
......
November
Chico ...... ..
............ November 12 Vallejo ......... .......... December 20
Red Bluff
.. ....... December 21
....... November 13 Manteca ......
Corning .....
....... December 22
... November 14 Stockton ....
Orland
,....... November 15 Lodi .......... - ................. December 23
Willows
........ December 27
.. ...... November 18 Sanamcnto
Xc·wtnan
Los Banos .......... -....... N m·ember 19

426

PROC~~EDINGS

OP 'l'HE
GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

1915.
San Francisco ........... .]anuarv 3-11 Compton .............................. March 5
Wheatland ...................... Janu;ry 20 \Vhitticr .............................. March 6
Lincoln
........................ January 21 Los Angeles ...................... March 7
J\1axwell ........................January 22 Pasadena ......................... March 8
Colusa
.................... .] anuary 23 Sierra Madre
......... March 9
Williams ....................... .Januarv 24 Long Beach .
........... March 10
San Francisco ................ Januar~ 25 Burbank
........ March 11
Burlingame ................... .] anuarv 26 Ocean Park .
.............. l\farch 12
San Rafael ..................... .]anuar~ 27 Azusa ..........
.................. March 13
Alameda .......................... Januar~ 28 Codna ........
................ March 14
San Jose .......................... January .10 Los Angeles ...................... March 15
·Modesto ........................ February 1 Eagle Rock ........................ March 16
Turlock .......................... February 2 Inglewood .......................... ..\!larch 17
Merced .......................... February 3 Suisun ................................ March 28
Madera ......................... February 4 St. Helena .................. ..... April 3
Clovis .. ....................
.February 5 Pacific Grove ...................... April 5
Sanger .......... .............. February 6 Salinas .................................. April 6
Selma
7 Los Gatos
8
Dinuba ...........
......... February 8 Gilroy ...
... :.April 9
Tulare ...
.. ..... February 9 Campbell
......... April 10
Coalinga ..
............. February 10 San Francisco
...... April 11
Lemoore ..
.......... February J 1 Pinole ..... .
_ ...... April 13
Portcrdlle .................... February 12 Berkeley .
..April 25
Delano ....
.. .... February 1.1 Pittsburg .
................ April 30
Bakersfield .................. February 14 Tuolumne ............................. May 3
Lancaster ...................... February 15 Sonora
........................ May 4
Pomona
..................... February 16 Murphys ................................ May 5
Calexico .... ............... February 17 San Andreas .......................... May 6
El Centro ...................... Februarv 18 :\fokelunme Hill .................. May 7
Brawley ........................ Februar~ 19 Plymouth
8
Claremont .................... February 20 Jackson ................................. May 9
San Bernardino .......... February 21 Ione
10
Needles .....
......... Februarv 22 :!\forced
............................ May 11
Perris
.............. Februar~ 23 Centerville
15
Corona ............................ February 24 Concord
19
Fallbrook
......... February 25 Anderson
.. 1fay 20
San Diego .................... Februarv 26 \Veaverville
21
Coronado ...................... Februar; 27 Shasta
22
Anaheim ....................... February 28 Redding
23
Santa Ana .......................... March 1 Sisson
24
Huntington Park ............ :March 2 Fort Jones
................ May 25
Downey
........ J\Iarch 3 Yreka
.May 26
Redondo ............................ March 4 Dutch Flat ...
... June 2

Truckee .................................. June 3
Susanville .............................. June 4
Lassen .................................... June 5
Alturas .................................... ] une 6
Cedarville .............................. June 7
San Luis Obispo.................. June 13
Guadalupe .............................. June 14
Lompoc .................................. June 15
Santa Barbara ....................June 16
Fillmore ................................ June 17
Ventura ................................. .June 18
Oceanside .............................. June 22
La Mesa ................................ June 23
:!llendocino ............................ July 10
Willits ................................. July 11
Eureka ................................ July 12-13
Arcata ..................................... .] uly 14
Fortuna .................................... July 15
Crescent City ........... .July 16-17-18
Folsom ................................. .July 29
Placerville ............................. .July 30
Georgetown ............................ July 31
Georgetown ...................... August 1
Bodie .................................. August 3
Bishop ................................ August 5
Big Pine ............................ August 6
Independence :·········"······August 7-8

427

Colfax ............................... August 14
N cvada City .................... August 15
Camptonville .................... August 16
Alleghany ........................ August 17
Downieville ...................... August 18
Sierraville ........................ August 19
Beckwith .......................... August 26
Quincy .
.................... August 27
La Porte ...................... August 28-29
Oroville ............................ August 30
Point Arena .......... September 11-12
Fort Bragg ................ September 13
Covelo ........................ September 14
l.:kiah .......................... September 15
Middletown ................ September 17
Lower Lake .............. September 18
Lakeport ...................... September 19
Mariposa .................... September 21
Oakland ........................ September 23
So. San Francisco .... September 24
Mountain View .......... September 25
Palo Alto .................... September 26
Santa Cruz .................... October 2
Watsonville .................... October 3
Daly City ........................ October 5
San Francisco ............ Octoher 10-11

Again thanking the Grand Lodge and the brethren for the honor
conferred upon me as their Grand Lecturer, I submit my annual report.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS

J. BAKtR,

Grand Lecturer.

The report was referred to a special committee consisting of Benjamin Kraus, Theodore Z. Mc.Murray, James
Ramsay.

AJvIENDMENTS TO CONSTITUTION.
Brothers vVillia111 A. Sherman and John H. Bean introduced the following:
\VHERE.\S, In cases where two or more Lodges have concurrent
jurisdiction it is found to the best interests of the fraternity to prop·

UHANll LOI>UJ<.: OF CALIFOHNIA

428

429

l'HOCEEDIKGS OF TIH;

nly rclie1·c the distresses of sojourning ~Iasons. their widows and
orphans through the Uo:m\s of Relief, which Hoards act as the
agents anc\ n•prcsentati1-cs of the Grand Lodge as well as Lodges sc
1Yorking together. :\s these Boards are primarily formed for the
rn111·eniencc am\ proper handling of such relief work, it is just that the
LOllges composing them shoulcl hear the expenses of operation. Therefore. the following anwndnwnt to the Constitution is recommended:

Ncsoh·cd, That Section 83 of the Constitution he amended to read
as follows :
Sec. 83. Such Lodges may form a Board of Relief for the purpose
pf properl.1· rcliL·1·ing the distrcsci of visiting llfasons, their widows
and orphans. under a compact to he agreed upon among themscil'c,
;:rnl ap\JrOl·ecl liy thl l~rand Lodge or Grand ~faster before bccornill'~
dfrctin·. 1Ylwrei;1 they may prm·ide, among other things. for paying
the expenses of the work in such manner as shall seem proper. Such
];oards shall report annually to the Grand Lodge, showing their work.
receipts. and dislmrscmcnts in detail, specifying separately what, if
an1·. h;1.s heen c>cpcmkd for the relief of non-affiliated ~fasons, their
wi;lows and orphans, therein sojourning, of this and other jurisdictions. and how much thereof, if any, has been repaid. This Grand
T,odge 11·ill not appropriate any of its funds to any such Board not
;;o reporting nor unkss it shall ha\'e hecn shown that its actual expenses
han: lwu1 hnrne by the Lodges constituting it.

Referred to the Committee on Jnrispruclence.
The Los ,\ng-eles :\ ra sonic Board of Relief presented
the following proposed amendment to section 163i of the
Constitution, which was referred to the Committee on
) urispruclcnce; an cl that Committee, deeming that an examination of the laws of other jurisdictions should he made
hcfure action he taken here, recommended that it be referred to the incoming Committee on Jurispruclence, to he
reported at the annual communication in 1916. ancl it was
so ordered:
\\'HERi-'..\:;, The Boards of Relief ar<.: frequently calkll upon to
gin· aid to the daughter of a :\faster ~lason, living or deceased, and

\ Y rn'.Rl·'..\S, }f any of such calls are from and in behalf of such

daughters 11 ho have passec\ the age of majority, and from am\ in he-half of daughters \\-ho have been or arc married; therefore, be it

N.,·soi<'c·d, That the term "orphan" is constrncd to include both
male and female under the age of lwenty-one years, and that the
claim to ~lasoni.: aicl at the age of t wcnly-onc years shall cease as a
matter of right, and that aid vouchsafed to such orphans after they
shall have attained the age of twenty-one years shall be in the discretion of the :\fasonic bodies di 0 pensing charity.
N.csufrc'd, That section 163i, now reading "That the daughter of a
:\!aster J\fason in g·wid standing, whether of tender or mature years.
i' entitled ln relief," be amended to read:
"That the daughter of a l\Jas\er Mason, in good standing, under
the age of twenty-one years, is cntitled to relief as a matter of right,
hut the daughter of a t[a,ter J'vlason who has attainecl the age of
1we11ty-one years, shall not as a matter of right be entitled to aid, but
may rcccin aid at the discretion of the dispensing body."
The foregoing resolution was unanimously adopted by the l\Iasonic
Hoard of Rclid of Los Angeles City on the 3rd of October, 1915, am\
ordered transmitted to th~ Cranfl Lodge for adoption.

J. M. DuNS>!OOR,
Secretary of l\[asonic Board of Relief.
Los Angeles, California.

Brother L. L. Gummow, ;\faster of Stanclarcl Lodge >:o.
440, introcl ucecl the following:
Hcsoh•cd, That section 96f of the Comtitution be amended by
adding tlw following: "Any Lodge to which application has been made
for a waiver of j nrisdiction of one eligible to rccei,--e the degrees
of Masonry may, at its option, as a condition of such wai,--er, demand
r•ne-half of the initiation fre of the Lodge ;;eeking to confer the degrees
upon such applicant."

This was referred to the Committee on Jurisprnclence,
who reported thereon as follows:
This proposL-d amendment is fully covered by section 96f, which
provides "that a Lodge waiving Jurisdiction, waives the right to the
fees, but it may as a condition to waiving jurisdiction demand the whole
fee or any part thereof." \Ve therefore recommend that the proposer\
:11ncndmcnt be not adopted.

The recommenclation of the Committee was concurred
111 ancl the resolution was lost.

GRAND LODGE OF CALll<'ORNIA

Brother John H. Bean introduced the following proposed
amendment to the Uniform Code of By-Laws:
Resolved, That section 2, article V, of the Uniform Code of ByLaws, relating to Treasurer. be amended by striking out the words
"if required by the Lodge," so that the section shall read as follows:
"Sec. 2. He shall execute a good and sufficient hond to the Master
for the faithful performance of his duties." ·

Rcsoh•cd, That section 2 of article VI of the lJniform Code of
By-Laws, relating to Secretary, be amended by striking out the words
"if required by the Lodge," so that the section shall read as follows:
"Sec. 2. He shall receive such compensation for his services as the
Lodge may direct; and he shall execute a good and suificicnt hond
to the Master for the faithful performance of his duties."

This was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence,
who reported back verbally to the effect that the proposed
amendment was a matter of policy for the Grand Lodge to
decide. The resolutions were laid over until \Vednesday
morning, when, after consideration, they were voted upon
and defeated.

Brother S. H. Kent, Past Master of Golden Gate Lodge
X o. 30, introduced the following:
Resohicd, That the dues of any brother of any Masonic Lodge
in the State of California, who has been in good standing for fortyfive years, may be remitted for the balance of his life, by a majority
vote of the members present at any annual meeting of the Lodge of
which he may be a member.

The above was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, who subsequently brought in the following report
thereon:
The proposed resolution is in violation of section 128 of the Conwhich forbids the remission of dues for any stated period in
advance; and we therefore recommend that it be not adopted.

431

Also by Brother Kent:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge adopt a form and style of Past
Master's jewel, to be made of· gold and without any setting of diamonds, to cost not to exceed twenty-five dollars, and that retiring
.:\Tasters he presented with such jewel, the funds for the purchase
thereof to be taken from the Lodge treasury.

The Committee on J urispruclence, to which was referred
the resolution, reported that
Our Grand Lodge has been opposed to the use of Lodge funds
for any such purpo;.;e since its Communication of 1853, and we therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopter!.

The recommendation was indorsed by Grand Lodge.

Brother Kent also presented a resolution to amend section 128 of the Constitution by providing that a retiring
Master shall be presented with a certificate of life membership and forbidding a collection from the members for gifts
or presents of any kind; and also providing for a collection
for the relief of a member in distress when the Lodge is
not financially able to relieve him. It was referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence, who reported back as follows:
Gnder section 129 of the Constitution, the only way in which a
certificate of life membership can he presented to the retiring Master
is by purchasing it. Our law requires that the life membership fund
shall be forever kept, and the income thereof alone used. Section
88a forbids the use of the funds to purchase presents for retiring
officers or for distinguished brethren, and this has been our law since
1853. We are not inclined to recommend any legislation to prevent
members of the Lodge from voluntarily subscribing to a fund to be used
for the presentation of a testimonial to the retiring Master, as we
think the members of the Lodge can well control such a matter.

~titution,

Our present law makes it obligatory on our Lodges to relieve
their members, and there is now ample power to make any collection
necessary for the relief of distress.

Grand Lodge concurred in the recommendation, and the
resolution was lost.

\Ve the re fore recommend that the proposed amendments to section 128 be not adopted.

The recommendation of the Committee was adopted.

432

PROCEE:DINGl:l OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99
4""

There was presented in behalf of brethren living at Fort
1\ rcDowell, Angel Island, the following:
The brethren on Angel Island are desirous of organizing a new
Lodge of Masons, and all of them belonging to the army, they desire
to be enabled to draw members from the various army posts around.
the bay. They do not ask for exclusive jurisdiction for posts other
than 1\ngel Island, but the right to work in conjunction with those
of San Francisco and .:\Iarin counties. There are approximately
thirty ;\laster Masons residing at this time on the island.

The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
j\I aster presiding.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which reported as follows :

The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.

Our Constitution now permits the application of a person belonging to the army or navy to be received by dispensation, although he
may not have the qualilication of residence in the State required of
others. (Section 96, Constitution.) In 1912 the Grand Lodge adopted
section 92A, which provides a• procedure for changing the jurisdiction
of Lodges, and your Committee feels that it would be unwise to recommend any change in our law at this time.

The Grand j\faster appointed the following Committee
on By-Laws: 1\I. J. ~ ewburg, Harry L. Dewey, Antonio
Cogliandro, 0. F. Paulding, J. A. Stone.

The report was adopted.

j\J orning Session.
Wednesday, October 13, 1915.

j\fost Worshipful Frank J. Miller, Grand .'\Jaster of
j\J asons in Oregon, was introduced and received with the
honors due to his station.
REPORT OF COJ\I:\IITTEE 0:\ RETUR:'\S.

Brothers D. B. Crane and L. J\'I uller presented the following, which was referred to the Committee on Finance:

Brother Albert A. Rosenshine, Chairman of the Committee on Returns of Lodges, reported as follows:

\VHEREAS, Brother Harry S. Johnson, our Assistant Grand Secretary, has filled that office well and faithfully for fifteen years or
more; and
\VHEREAS, His salary has remained the same since 1906, in spite
of the great increase in the cost of living and the increase in the
labors of his position; therefore be it
Resoh•cd, That the salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary he
fixed at twenty-one hundred dollars per annum.

To the Jf.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

The Grand Lodge was then railed off until 10 o'clock
\\' ednesday morning.

Your Committee on Returns begs to report as follows:
The reports returned to the V.". W.". Grand Secretary show that
the year just passed has been marked by a steady and substantial
progress both in the total membership in the jurisdiction an<l also in
the income of the Grand Lodge from its subordinate Lodges. There
has been a net gain of 2162 members. and a net increase in the payments to the Grand Lodge from the subordinate Lodges of $1.756.85.
The retnrns also show a decrease of 128 in the nnmhcr who have
dimitted; and an increase of 13 in the number who ha\'e restored
themselves to good standing over the figures for 1914. But we regret
that there is an increase of 210 in the number of brothers suspended
for non-payment of dues. Steps should he taken at once to rednce this
number, for based on the returns of the last two years, only about
one-seventh of those who ha\·e been suspended ever are restored to
membership and so six-sevenths of the number suspended represent a
net loss to the Order.

434

GR.\.ND LODG::!: Ob~ CALIFOHNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

There has been a decided improvement 111 the character and correctness of the returns themselves, as well in the promptness with
which they were sent to the Grand Secretary as 111 the neatness and
accuracy in the manner of their preparation.
There is, however, om' Lodge, Emmanuel No. 318. which has been
most remiss m this matter. Its report was due August 15, 1915, and
was not received by the Grand Secretary until September 27, 1915,
and then only after letters had been written by the V.'. W.'. Grand
Secretary to the Master of that Lodge, both of its Wardens. its Secretary and also thee Inspector of the .\fasonic District in which it is included. \Vhile your Committee appreciatet' the fact that this Lodge is
small and that Ill all probability all its burdens arc carried by a few,
nevertheless. the delay in this case seems inexcusable. If :mch methods
>hould be tolerated and hecomc more common, it would he ahsolutcly
impossible for the v:. \V. ". Grand Secretary to prepare his reports
and would seriously interfere with the business of the Grand Lodge.
The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of this j urisdiction were indebte,d, for the year ending July 31, 1915, and which
have all been paid, are as follows·
H01ne
.Main~

General
Fund.

California
1$
\Vcstern Star
2
Tehama ........ ................. 3
Benicia
5
Tuolumne
8
Corinthian ...................... 9
San Jose
10
Yount ...................... ..
12
Xcvada ................
13
Temple
................ 14
Eureka ............. .
16
La Parfaitc l:nion ........ 17
,\I 011ntai11 Shade
18
San Joaquin ............... 19
Washington ................. 20
Hawaiian ....................... 21
Occidental ..................... 22

.\fadison ....................... 23
Mariposa ....................... 24
Georgetown
........... 25
Palmyra
26
Trinity
....... .. 27

tenance
Fund.

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

Allowed
Rep'tives.

556.70 $ 573.00 $ 286.50 $ 1.416.20
81.70
83.00
41.50
2CX:i.20 $ 24.CXl
219.00
109.50
6.00
220.10
548.60
111.00
111.90
278.40
55.50
127.90
324.40
13.20
131.00
65.50
131.50
125.00
62.50
319.00
8.05
43140
426.00
1,070.40
213.00
2.80
183.40
166.00
432.40
2.80
83.00
142.60
154.00
373.60
13.10
77.00
200.(X)
80.00
89.00
40.00
119.10
109.00
282.60
.8.00
54.50
184.20
89.00
451.20
178.00
29.00
30.00
74.00
28.10
15.00
342.30
317.00
158.50
817.80
5.20
6.00
165.90
161.00
80.50
407.40
290.50
314.00
157.00
761.50
548.00
1,364.20
542.20
274.00
123.90
320.40
12.10
131.00
65.50
111.60
30.20
45.60
44.00
22.00
25.50
48.90
51.00
125.40
10.40
171.50
449.00
185.00
92.50
34.50
60.70
31.50
155.20
6300

General

Fund.

Golden Gate
30
Gold Hill
32
Ophir ........................ 33
San Diego ..... ". ............... 35
St. John's ........................ .37
Santa Cruz ................... 38
Yuba ......
.................... 39
Sacramento .................... 40
Martinez .................. . 41
Los Angeles
42
Hiram ............................ 43
l\Iount Moriah
44
Crescent ........................ 45
Texas
..................... 46
Forbestown .......
... 50
lllinoistown ................. 51
Suisun ........................... 55
Volcano .....
...... 56
Santa Rosa .................. 57
Union ............................ 58
Gravel Range .............. 59
Plumas .........
.... 60
Live Oak .......
.. 61
George Washington
62
Natoma .................... 64
Amador ......................... 65
Forest ............................ 66
,\forning Star ............. 68
Enterprise ...................... 70
Bear Mountain ......... 76
Calaveras
................ 78
Humboldt ..................... 79
fone
........................... 80
Yolo ................................ 81
.Rising Star ................... 83
Vesper ......... ,, ................. 84
Naval ......................... 87
Rose's Bar .................. 89
North Star ................... 91
Acacia ............................ 92
St. Helena
....... 93
Henry Clay .....
.. 95

564.20
53.00
49.80
409.70
125 ..'lO
224.40
90.00
208.70
88.40
535.00
25.30
383.60
74.40
28.20
27.90
69.00
98.80
25.20
255.80
253.95
34.80
66.20
748.10
38.70
94.40

7350
58.50
269.80
149.20
85.SO
68.70
295.20
70.20
46.50
42.30
153.90
478.60
46.80
48.90
18.90
92.40
58.80

Home
Maintenance

435

Fund.

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

538.00
50.00
52.00
423.00
117.00
226.00
90.00
193.00
86(X)
490.00
27.00
354.00
76.00
28.00
31.00
70.00
102.00
28.CXl
252.00
245.00
32.00
68.00
719.00
43.00
76.!X)
75.00
45.00
252.00
148.(Xl
85.00
73.00
308.00
58.00
45.CO
47.00
161.00
404.00
52.00
51.00
21.00
96.00
62.00

269.00
25.00
26.00
211.50
58.50
113.00
45.00
96.50
43.00
245.00
13.50
177.00
38.00
14.00
15.50
35.00
51.00
14.00
126.00
122.50
16.00
34.00
.359.50
21.50
38.00
37.50
22.50
126.00
74.00
42.50
36.50
154.00
29.00
22.50
23.50
80.50
202.00
26.00
25.50
10.50
48.00
31.00

1,371.20
128.00
127.80
1,044.20
300.80
563.40
225.00
498.20
217.40
1,270.00
65.80
914.60
188.40
70.20
74.40
174.00
251.80
67.20
633.80
621.45
82.80
168.20
1,826.60
103.20
208.40
186.00
126.00
647.80
371.20
213.00
178.20
757.20
157.20
114.00
112.80
395.40
1,084.60
124.80
125.40
50.40
236.40
151.80

.\llowed

Rep~tives.

7.50
16.00
44.15
28.90
5.90
8.05
6.00
35.70
9.80
52.20
6.70
14.90

14.20
2.80
6.00
19.10
15.10
.20

7.10
11.20
23.10
5.20
8.20
14.00
11.00
24.00
8.00

6.10
13.60
16.00
2.10
12.40
12.40
4.00
11.20

PHOCBEDI.t\G~

436

OF TIU;

Home
.\Lain-

. 96
97
........ 98
. 99
.... 101
..... 103
............. 104
... 106

l lowarcl

J cfferson

Hornitos
Yosemite
Clay ...
Orovillc
Lexington
.'\rcata
............. .110
Pajaro
........ 111
Chico.
.................. 112
Summit
..... 113
Eden
.......... 117
Concord
Clinton ------ ................... .119
..... 120
Fidelity
............ .122
Alamo
... 123
Sotoyome ....
... 124
Table Mounta;n
.......... 126
La F<iYcttc.
.............. .127
Hern1ann
.... .128
Visalia
........... 129
~icoiam;
Woodbridge ............... .131
..... 132
Sincerity
............ 134
Vacaville
................. 135
Valley
Pacific ........................ .136
........... .139
Crockett
.. 140
Curtis
.... 141
Grafton
........... 143
Franklin
. .144.
Oriental
Vitrm·ius -----·-·····--------- .. 145
..146
Abell -----................ i47
Eel River
..... 149
Lassen ----.. ...... 150
l\Iolino
\'1 oodla111I
.. .156
... 161
Keystone ---·
..... 164
Harmon) .........
Excelsior ·-------·······--·- .... .166
. ... ..... 1fi7
Alanwcla ... .
.

General
Fund.

tenance

80.00
44.60
24.40
126.70
57.50
209.80
84.10
116.50
135.70
228.70
2S.20
133.SO
130.00
46.20
558.40
73.SO
177.00
S7.00
126.30
20S.60
lS0.70
67.00
86.00
42.70
12S.80
46.70
705.10
464.80
5S.60
32.90
/0.50
3S9.70
57.30
124.30
139.40
104.20
73.30
190.SO
27.40
10.80
382.50
109.60

80.00
44.00
26.00
123.00
64.00
202.00
79.00
l IS.00
133.00
223.00
28.00
13S.OO
120.00
48.00
546.00
75.00
18000
60.00
127.00
204.00
!S3.00
7000
90.00
43.00
132.00
43.00
669.00
432.00
S4.00
31.00
6S.OO
363.(X)
S7.00
127.00
126.00
98.00
67.00
!8S.OO
26.00
12.00
39S.OO
104.00

Fund.

Ull.\Nll LUUGI<; UF C.\LIFOHNL\

Ilomc
Building
Fund.

40.00
22.00
13.00
61.SO
32.00
101.00
39.50
S7.SO
66.SO
111.SO
14.00
67.50
60.00
24.00
273.00
37.SO
90.00
30.00
63.SO
102.00
76.SO
3S.OO
4S.OO
21.50
66.00
21.50
334.SO
216.00
27.00
15.SO
32.SO
181.50
28.SO
63.SO
63.00
49.00
33.SO
92.SO
13.00
6.00
197.SO
52.00

437

lfome

Total.

200.00
110.60
63.40
311.20
IS3.60
Si2.80
202.60
289.00
33S.20
563.20
67.20
336.00
310.00
118.20
1.377.40
186.00
447.00
147.00
316.80
511.60
380.20
172.00
221.00
107.20
323.80
111.20
1,708.60
1,112.80
136.60
79.40
168.00
904.20
142.80
314.80
328.40
2Sl.20
173.80
468.00
66.40
28.80
97S.OO
26S.60

Allo\ved
Rep'tives.

28.90
21.90

10.70
9.90
35.70
24.70
6.20
11.20
9.40
.80
6.00
19.00
..

3.30
4.SO
10.40
3.00
18.30
8.20
S.80
23.80
4.40
S.90

6.()')
6.40
6.20

22.so
31.80
12.so
S.80

1.60

Redwood City ... ......... 168
J\Iission -----------·· ............ 169
Elk Gro\·e ············· ........ 173
Drytown ·····- .......... .174
~\ntioch ...... ................... 17S
Phoenix .......
...... 178
~Iendocino ...................... 179
Petaluma
.............. 180
Russian Ri'\-er ----- ...... 181
J\.Ieridian
..... 182
Clear Lake .................... 183
Sierra Valley .............. 184
Claiborne ...................... 18S
Evening Star .......... ..... 186
Keith .... ---------------- ........ 187
Oakland ········----- ............ 188
Northern Light .... ...... .190
Marin ·········----···--- ........ 191
Santa Barbara ..... ........ 192
Ferndale ..
...... 193
Mountain View ... :........ 194
Buckeye
.................... 195
San Simeon ....
........ .196
\V'ilrnington
........... 198
Hartley ........................ 199
Truckee
................ 200
Silveyville
............. 201
Pentalpha
.... 202
Confidence
..... .203
Salinas .. ... .
... 204
Kewville
........ 205
Stanislaus
........206
Anaheim ..
...... 207
Rio Vista ...
..... 208
King David's ............... .209
'Friendship ................... .210
San Benito ................... .211
South San Francisco ... 212
San Buenaventura .. .214
Oak Grove ................... .21S
Doric .........
................ .216
Monterey
............... .217

.Main( ;cneral

llomc

ten a nee

Fund.

Fund.

Building
Fund.

146.80
88S.20
6S.20
37.90
111.60
309.10
139.40
226.30
82.20
52.00
39.00
32.70
58.70
37.80
139.30
S54.20
84.70
248.30
172.40
90.70
106.40
88.00
32.SO
68.10
109.30
109.40
78.SO
SOl.40
23.40
138.20
40.10
118.60
139.50
66.70
220.50
265.20
IU0.40
214.30
12S.OO
427.SO
474.40
100.70

132.00
908.00
68.00
31.00
104.00
249.00
136.00
217.00
78.00
S0.00
30.00
33.00
53.00
32.00
127.00
SS8.00
83.00
227.00
1S6.00
93.00
96.00
90.00
35.00
S9.00
107.00
116.00
7S.OO
506.00
26.0J
148.00
39.00
104.00
l IS.00
63.00
205.00
2S8.00
96.00
197.00
130.00
43S.OO
476.00
1m.m

66.00
4S4.00
34.00
IS.SO
~2.00

124.SO
68.00
108.SO
39.00
25.00
15.00
16.50
26.SO
16.00
63.SO
279.00
41.50
113.SO
78.00
46.SO
48.00
4S.OO
17.SO
29.SO
53.SO
S8.00
37.SO
2S3.00
13.00
74.00
19.50
S2.00
57.SO
31.SO
102.SO
129.00
48.00
98.SO
65.00
217.SO
238.00
SISO

Tut al.

344.80
2,247.20
167.20
84.40
267.60
682.60
343.40
5S 1.80
199.20
127.00
84.00
82.20
138.20
8S.80
329.80
1.391.20
209.20
S88.80
406.40
230.20
250.40
223.00
8S.OO
1S6.60
269.80
283.40
191.00
1,260.40
62.40
360.20
98.60
274.60
312.00
161.20
S28.00
tS2.20
2:M.40

509.80
320.00
1,080.00
1.188.40
2SS.20

Allowed
Rcp'tives.

1.80
S.SO
10.70
3S.70
lS.SO
2.00
3.90
...

12.SO
21.30

4.90
.20
21.SO
.70
29.60
22.90
2.SO
s.so
22.10
36.SO
11.SO
18.30
4.70
3S.70
6.20
7.20
14.90
6.SO
3S.70
6.20
19.10
2.80
S.90
29.70
.20
6.60

l,HoCgEDING8 OF THI<;

438

...... .218
:\lo,;aic
Speranza Jtaliana ....... .219
Downey --··- ................. .220
.. 221
Inyo
.. .222
Granite
..... 224
Bakersfield
.22:i
Brooklyn ····San :\Iateo
········· ... 226
.... .228
.-\thens
........... .229
Solano
. 230
Xorth Butte
...... .231
Cm·clo
......... 232
J anes,·illc
.... .233
Calistoga
................... 234
Hope
.. 235
Surprise Valley
..... .236
H.ills Ferry
Guadalupe .................... 237
... .240
Colusa
.... .241
Santa ..\na
Magnolia ··············--- ..... .242
..243
Eucalyptus
...... 244
Alcatraz
........... .245
Laurel
... .246
Pomona
............. ...... .247
Fresno
... .248
Alturas
................... .250
Adin -···
Bodie. .......................... 252
.... 253
Landmark
.... .254
Reading
............ 255
\Velcomc
...... .256
Lodi
........ 258
Penrhyn
EYergreen -·········-··· ...... .259
King Solomon's ....... .260
Tuscan ··-·-··--·-··········· ..... 261
............ 262
Lompoc
..264
l-Iesperian
......... .265
Orland
.. .266
Xorth East
Calt
··············-·· ..... .267
"

General
Fund.

Home
i\faintenance
Fund.

106.10
224.20
103.30
55.50
64.10
318.60
409.80
145.90
79.30
279.40
101.00
37.80
45.90
88.00
48.90
54.20
89.20
66.10
85.60
317.60
91.80
99.00
362.10
123.20
275.70
367.80
75.90
44.50
28.80
50.20
145.90
80.70
213.50
86.80
300.50
492.90
53.30
101.30
190.10
100.40
40.60
45.10

99.00
198.00
97.00
55.00
59.00
304.00
372.00
j 4 i.00
77.00
256.00
90.00
42.0l\
51.00
80.00
51.00
48.('0
68.00
69.00
84.0U
324.00
92.00
100.00
369.00
118.00
283.00
342.00
71.00
45.00
32.00
48.00
141.00
83.00
185.00
82.00
315.00
501.00
57.00
107.00
199.00
86.00
44.00
39.00

Ult.\ NI>

Home
Buil<ling
Fund.

49.50
99.00
48.50
27.50
29.50
152.00
186.00
70.50
38.50
128.00
45.00
21.00
25.50
40.00
25.50
24.00
34.00
34.50
42.00
162.00
46.00
50.00
184.50
59.00
141.50
171.00
35.50
22.50
16.00
24.00
70.50
41.50
92.50
41.00
157.50
250.50
28.50
53.50
99.50
43.00
22.00
19.50

l.Ul>UI~

4:rn

UI•' C.\ LIFUltX I.\

1fomc
Total.

254.60
521.20
248.80
138.00
152.60
774.60
967.80
357.40
194.80
663.40
236.00
100.80
122.40
208.00
125.40
126.20
191.20
169.60
211.60
803.60
229.80
249.00
915.60
300.20
700.20
880.80
182.40
112.00
76.80
122.20
357.40
205.20
491.00
209.80
773.00
1,244.40
138.80
261.80
488.60
229.40
106.60
103.60

~Iain-

Allowed
Rep'tives.

2.80
35.70
50.40
7.10
23.40
.20
1.20
5.10
2.10
9.50
14.70
34.80
2.50
45.90
7.00
21.60
9.40
35.70
29.60
1.10
.20
10.00
35.70
15.60
40.90
48.90
6.40
18.50
17.70
5.50
7.40
35.70
8.40
24.30
21.70
14.00
50.90
5.50

Durant
............ 268
Olive Branch
...... .269
Snow l\lountain ........... .271
Pasadena
... .272
..\nchor -···......... 273
.\rroyo ..
........... .274
Oakdale
........... .275
Selma
........ .277
,
Southern California .... .278
Hanford
... .279
:\fadera
...... 280
:\It. Shasta
.... .281
Callayomi -···- ............... .282
South \\'est -····-·-··· ...... 283
San :\ figuel -···
... 285
Paso Robles ·--·.. 286
\Vinneclumah
.. .287
:\faxwell
.............. 288
Elsinore ·-··...... 289
East Gate ·-····
......... .290
Santa Paula ····- .. :......... 291
Los Gatos ...................... 292
Orange Grove ............. .293
Traver ............................ 294
Mt. Jackson
..... .295
Silver Gate .................. 296
Dunsmuir .. .................. .297
}J okelurnnc Hill ... ..... .298
Liberty ......................... 299
Redlands ....................... 300
Ontario .......................... 301
Santa Lucia .................. 302
Porten·illc .................... 303
Reedley ··············· .......... 304
, Azusa .............................. 305
:\shlar ·--·-·· .................... 306
Santa :\[aria .................. 307
;\Tonroyia -···-- ............... 308
Delano ·--····-········· ......... 309
Sisson ............................ 310
Lns Danos
........... 312
Tehachapi -··· ................. 313

General
Fund.

tenancc

412.10
143.80
37.40
419.40
73.50
45.90
87.10
129.20
663.80
173.30
111.10
55.60
34.80
115.70
87.30
52.70
101.30
42.40
87.20
729.40
140.30
128.70
101.20
66.40
105.90
443.50
100.90
50.80
198.50
250.70
146.70
64.30
175.90
64.00
72.10
139.50
135.80
123.60
113.30
84.10
62.50
156.90

~29.GO

Fund.

142.00
36.00
416.00
75.00
51.00
69.00
118.00
682.00
167.00
99.00
54.00
32.00
11300
77.00
53.00
97.00
36 00
58.00
656.00
137.00
123.00
108.00
66.00
81.00
405.00
101.00
52.00
185.00
253.00
143.00
67.00
171.00
60.00
79.00
125.00
142.00
124.00
87.ro
79.00
55.00
131.00

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

214.50
71.00
18.00
208.on
37.50
25.50
34.50
59.00
341.0ll
83.50
49.50
27.00
16.00
56.50
38.50
26.50
48.50
18.00
29.00
328.00
68.50
61.50
54.00
33.00
40.50
202.50
50.50
26.00
92.50
126.50
71.50
33.50
85.50
30.00
39.50
62.50
71.00
62.00
43.50
39.50
27.50
• 65.50

1.055.60
356.80
91.40
1.043.40
186.00
122.40
190.60
306.20
1.686.80
423.80
259.60
136.60
82.80
285.20
202.80
132.20
246.80
96.40
174.20
1.713.40
345.80
313.20
263.20
165.40
227.40
1,051.00
252.40
128.80
476.00
630.20
361.20
164.80
432.40
154.00
190.60
327.00
348.80
309.60
243.80
202.60
145.00
353.40

c\llowcr]
Rep'tives.

.20
18.30
15.60
35.70
36.10
19.00
7.40
16.70
35.70
17.70
14.10
17.80
9.50
44.15
16.10
16.70
54.10
8.90
38.10
35.70
31.70
3.30
35.70
17.00
3.50
44.15
22.80
11.00
2.80
36.40
35.70
20.00
17.10
35.70
35.70
36.40
35.70
20.30
23.80
8.30
2560

PltOCE~lHNU~

410

GUAN]) LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

OF 'J'IH:

Home

Home
":\lain·

... .314
.315
...... 316
Sanger
......... .317
Fallhrook
...... 318
'''Emmanuel
.... 319
l lolkn11eck
..... 320
South Gat(·
.. 321
.\bal ....
.....322
.\lhamhra
...... 323
\\'bittier
....... 324
Corona
..... 325
Cm1snclo
.. 326
\:eedles .....
.....327
Long Beach
.... 328
Redondo
Vallee de Franc(«. ....... 329
........ 330
Kilauea
..
....... 331
f'acitic Cron:
....... 332
San Pedro
... 333
.\!ta
(\win a ................. ..... .334
.... 335
\Vest Gate
..336
Fruit\·ak
.........337
Carqnincz
..... 338
San Jacint< >
.... 339
17ulkrton
.... 341
Oxnard .... __
....... 343
San Fernando
.......... 344
Starr Ei11g
............. 345
llrentwoo<l
...... 346
Palo Alto
\fcKinky .............. ... 347
...... 348
San Bernardi no
Sequoia
---·-········ .. ·· .. 349
... 351
Palestine
... 352
Sun~et
....... 353
Pinole ...............
.. .354
Presidio .....
355
llollywood ....
............ 356
'.\!ill Valley
.357
Hrcna Park
... 358
Col<lrn State

Ten1e:-1cal
~\orwalk

~--.-

101.80
63.30
93.50
45.00
55.50
.809.30
750.10
65.60
252.40
178.20
383.10
58.70
150.50
342.20
134.80
100.90
15850
64.40
202.60
30.80
142.30
441.50
325.00
111.60
98.20
235.00
167.70
89.90
314.30
107.60
220.00
195.00
269.90
609.10
368.90
430.70
72.80
314.20
369.90
206.90
93.70
526.50

92.00
57.00
85.00
40()()
55.00
727.00
729.rnl
64.00
256.0il
178.m
379.00
63.00
135.00
328.00
132.00
101.00
166.00
66.0l.l
184.00
3200
152.00
415.00
260.00
94.00
98.00
190.00
17300
81.00
287.00
84.00
200.m
170.00
261.00
499.00
321.CO
393.00
72.00
288.00
311.00
181.00
63.00
445.fXl

llumc
Building
Furnl.

46.00
28.50
42.50
20.00
27..SO
363.50
364.50
32.00
128.00
89.00
189.50
31.50
67.50
164.00
66.00
50.50
83.00
33.00
92.00
1600
76.00
207.50
130.00
47.00
49.00
95.00
86.50
40.50
143.50
42.00
100.00
85.00
130.50
249.50
160.50
196.50
36.00
144.00
155.50
90.50
31.50
222.50

).fain·
Total.

239.80
148.80
22100
105.00
138.00
1.899.80
1.843.60
161.60
636.40
445.20
951.60
153.20
353.00
834.20
332.80
252.40
407.50
163.40
478.60
78.80
370.80
1.064.00
715.00
252.60
245.20
520.00
427.20
211.40
744.80
233.60
520.00
450.00
661.40
1.357 60
850.40
1.020.20
180.80
746.20
836.40
478.40
188.20
1,194.00

General

.\llowetl
H.ep'tives.

35.70
35.70
16.50
41.70
9.70
35.70
35.70
2.50
35.70
35.90
35.70
4190
48.Stl
36.50
36.70
35.70
7.00
36.50
35.70
35.70
.20
2.10
38.70
35.70
30.30
34.70

2.10
1.10
35.70
.20
35.70
35.70
1.60
35.70

.so
35.70
35.70

l,~und.

Loyalton ........ ........... 359
.360
San Francisco
Fort Bragg .................... 361
Charity ...........
......... 362
............. 363
Berkeley
Olivet .............................. 364
.............. 365
Willits .,. ..
Las Pal mas .................. 366
South Pasadena .......... 367
.......... 368
C'nity
Ocean Park
.... 369
:\mity
....... 370
Oceanic ..........................371
Gardena
.... 372
Veteran
..... 373
Jewel
............ 374
Richmond ..........
.375
Francis Drake
....... 376
Artesia
............. 377
:\Iizpah
............ 378
Fillmore
...... 379
Huntington Beach .: ..... 380
Oceanside .......... _.. ... .381
Highland Parle. ... ....... 382
Orosi .........
....... 383
El Centro
' ..... 384
Dinuba ···..........385
Coalinga
..... 387
Parnassus
...... 388
Palos Verdes
.. 389
Imperial
.......... 390
East Belt ---·...... 391
West Lake
....... 392
Balder
.... 393
University ---·-· ............... 394
Turlock ...........
..... 395
Apollo .....
396
Rising Light
...... 397
Fowler
......... 398
Fraternity .................. ... 399
Burlingame
..400
View
.. .401

40.10
255.80
73.60
72.50
358.40
58.10
101.40
320.40
194.90
202.40
20120
331.50
165.70
81.40
193.10
91.10
324.70
92.00
81.10
423.90
106.50
76.90
34.20
310.70
55.40
146.20
102.90
154.60
334.40
185.10
62.80
45.10
636.30
227.30
253.40
63.20
159.30
103.70
21.90
191.40
164.20
246.20

39.00
232.00
74.00
75.00
336.00
59.00
86.00
296.00
171.00
196.00
198.00
315.00
143.00
76.00
159.00
89.00
293.00
70.00
79.00
381.00
85.00
61.00
38.00
303.00
56.00
118.00
91.00
l 44.00
266.00
139.00
62.00
39.00
557.00
187.00
196.00
68.00
137.00
93.00
21.00
166.00
148.00
208.00

Home_
Building
Fund.

19.50
116.00
37.00
37.50
168.00
29.50
43.00
148.00
85.50
98.00
99.00
157.50
71.50
38.00
79.50
44.50
146.50
35.00
39.50
190.50
42.50
30.50
19.00
151.50
28.00
59.00
45.50
72.00
133.00
69.50
31.00
19.50
278.50
93.50
98.00
34.00
68.50
46.50
10.50
83.00
74.00
104.(X)

441

Alhrn·c1l

Tut a I.

98.60
603.80
184.60
185.00
862.40
146.60
230.40
764.40
451.40
496.40
498.20
804.00
380.20
195.40
431.60
224.60
764.20
197.()()
199.60
995.40
234.00
168.40
91.20
765.20
139.40
323.20
239.40
370.60
733.40
393.60
J55.80
103.60
1.471.80
507.80
547.40
165.20
364.80
243.20
53.40
440.40
386.20
558.20

I<cp'tivc:;, .

22.40
13.90
3.!0
.20
14.90
ROO
15.60
35.70
37.9U
36.40

35.iO
36.40

36.40
35.70
32.40
37.20
39.90
35.70
19.10
5.1.20
18.30
21.40
36.50
52.90
15.10
35.70
35.70
9.40
.20
35.70
16.20
2.80
1.10
.20

l'UOCKl<;DJNG~

'142

OF THE
GHAND LODGE OF CAL!l'ORNIA

General
Fnnrl.

])r;:wky

Ycrha Buena
Clcnclora ......
:\loneta .....
Hmhank

..... ..402
.. . 403
....... .4C4
.:105
.... .406

La .\f<:'sa ..
.. ....... .407
Sierra J\Tadre
..... 40B
IT onolulu ....... .. ........ ..409
Charter Rock
...410
Perris
........... .411

Calexico ......
..... .412
\Vaucoha
.. .413
.\ rlingtnn
........ .414
Silver Trowel
... .415
Lindsay
....... .416
Clovis
.417
Elysian
............ ..418
Upland
.. ..419
Kcnwm .... ..
..... .420
Inglewood ......... .
.... .421
........ .4.?2
Eagle Rock .
York .......
.... .423
Exeter
. 424
Holh·ille
............. ..425
:!\fidway ....
.............. .426
Chino Valley .............. .427
San Dimas
.. ..428
Pittshmg
...... .429
J\lcCloud ....................... .430
:\lpha ............................ .431
Rnseville
.432
I lammonton ...... ....... .433
:\! aricopa
.... ..434
Fairmount ....
...... .435
Claremont .................... .436
Lancai'ter ........
.. .437
Germania
... .438
Tyrian
. .439
Standard
...440
Coronado
... ..441
Inacknwr
....... ..442
Schofield
... .443

8LOO
241.40
47.00
307.70
85.80
69.20
64.60
177.75
394.60
45.50
97.90
32.0;1
152.90
157.30

52.00
42.00
230.20
63.80
46.00
60.80
49.60
66.20

52.90
70.60
142.30
41.00
77.00
41.30
50.10
210.60
93.00
41.50
46.70
520.20
40.90
37.20
84.30
34.611
108.60
67.60
100.70
90.50

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

70.00
186.00
50.00
253.00
72.00
68.00
64.00
177.00
324.00
45.00
81.00
30.00

121.00
137.00
50.00
40.00
188.00
62.00

40.00
62.00
44.00
48.00

51.00
53.00
97.00
40.00
60.00
37.00
39.00
154.00
80.(X)
35.(X)

43.00
268.(X)

41.00
28.00

57.00
24.CXI
84.00
64.00
93.00
58.00

443

HiJlllC

Building
Fund.

35.00
93.00
25.00
126.50
36.00
34.00
32.00
88.50
162.00
22.50
40.50
15.00
60.50
68.50
25.00
20.00
94.00
31.00
20.00
31.00
22.00
24.00
25.50
26.50
48.50
20.00

30.00
18.50
19.50
77.00
40.00
17.50
21.50
134.00
20.50
14.00
28.50
12.00

42.00
32.00
46.50

29.00

Total.

186.00
520.40

122.00
687.20
193.80

171.20
160.60
443.25
880.60
113.00
219.40

77.00
334.40
362.80
127.00
102.00
512.20
156.80
106.00
153.80

115.60
138.20
129.40

150.10
287.80

101.00
167.00
96.80
108.60
441.60
213.CKl
94.00
111.20
922.20
102.40
79.20
169.80
70.60
234.60
163.60
240.20
177.50

.\llowed
Rep'tives,

51.7()
.20
35.70
35.iO
35.00
45.90
36.40

.20
38.90
34.00

52.90
35.70
35.70

19.30
16.40
35.70
35.70
15.30
36.20
36.20
36.70
18.90
54.00
27.60
35.70
35.70
3.00
27 ()(l
1.10

6.80
1005

35.70
30.60

35.70
5.50
.20
44.15
44.15

Home
1hdldi11g
Fund.

(;cnPral
}'urnl.

Carpinteria .................... 444
\Vilshire ...................... .445
La Puenta .....
.. .. ..446
Torrance ....................... .447
!\.It. Diahlo
............. .448
Park ...
.. ..... .449
Van :.; uys . ...... .. ....... .450
.'.lfontebello
...... ..451
San Pasqual ............... ..452
Bethlehem ... ...... .. .. U. D.
Crocker ..................... U. D.
Riverbank ................. U. D.
Golden \V cst... .......... T. D.
Kennett
...... ll. D.
Ramona ...................... t:. D.
Henry S. Orme ...... U. D.

26.40

26.00

176.80

152.00

35.70
33.30
50.80
279.10
47.10
61.80
78.60
76.00
58.20
27.60

33.00
27.00
3200
109.00

126.20

49.20
48.70
24.30

29.00

32.00
74.00
50.00
28.00
24.00
3800
28.00
33.00
17.00

13.00
76.00
16.50

13.50
16.00
54.50
14.50
16.00

37.00
25.00
14.00

Total.

65.40

28.40

404.80

35.70
35.70
35.70
2.80

85.20
73.80
98.80
442.60
9060
1C9.80
189.60
151.00

34.70
35.70

35.70

100.20

12.0D

63.60

19.00
1400

183.20

16.51)
8.50

98.20
49.80

------- - - - - - - - - - -

.\l\nwd
Hep'tives.

91.20

6.80

19.70
35.70
35.70

-----~----

Totals ............................. $59,393.!XJ $55.341.00 $27.670.50 S142.404.50

The report was adopted.

On motion of Past Grand ::\laster Henderson. the annual
oration was made special order for Thursday afternoon at
? o'clock.
Past Grand ::\laster :\lotley H. Flint appeared anrl took
his seat.

TUE

~fcCRE\\'

CASE.

The Committee on Jurisprudence reported a;; iollo\Ys:
To the .it:. W.'. Grand Lodge of Californio:
The rdcrc11cc by the Grand Master tn the case of Gifford I!. C.
J\kCrcw brings before a communication of this Grand Loflge for the
1irst time
matter that has resulted in an unfortunate contro1·t•rsy
with !he Cram! Lodge of J\Iassaclmsetts, and culminating in the aclop-

444

PHOCEl•,ll1NG:4 OF 'l'Hb:

lion In lhc l;i,;t 11:1rncd lin111" of tlw n·port "f ;1 cm11111ittc(' appointed by
1hc· .\I.'. \\ . .'. Cr;1nd :\la'l<'r of that jnrisdictinn lo imTstigate and
report conccrni11g th,· s:11llc. l'rinted L'llpics of thi,; report. :-ta ting the
po,;iti"11 of the (;rand Lndgc d .\lassaclmsctts. han· hccn forwanh,d.
11» onkr ni such Crane! Lrnlgc, to this CraJHI Lrnlgc. am! w1· assnrnc.
1·1· reason of the fact 1h;11 the report rcqnircs ii. "to n·ery Cram! Loclgc.
::;Hprcmc Council. and otlin Grand llody nf :\lasons \\'ilh which onr
Cram! Lodge lias official relations.''
\Ve han· m;1dc such i11vl'stig;1tirn1 as \\·arrants 11' in n·pnrtin;;
iollows :
(;ifforrl JI. C. :\fcGrc\\', at om· time Crane! Lecturer of the (;rand
Lodge.: nf :\la>oaclrnsdts. was ekctcd to memhership in our Dnrant
Lodge X o. 268 in ".\ 01·cmlicr, 19117. and has enr since lie en a member
thereof. It \\:tS not until the year 1912 that notice was gi,·en on behalf
of the Cra11d Lodge of :l\[assac!msl'lts to any officer oi our Grand Lmlgc
that it claimccl jurisdiction m·cr him a,; an expelled :\Jason. who had
nc\·cr been restored. Rccog11i1ing to the foll the dol'trinc that no jurisdiction should re,·cin• as a :\la,;on one who has lll'cn suspcrnlc1l or
cxpelkd in anothn j uri,dktio11 and \\ho has not hem restored hy that
jurisdiction. \1·ithout the cxpn-.s"·d rnnsrnt of the lattvr, inn>stigatinn
y,·as at once iti:;tituted hy onr th1•11 Crand .\fa,kr.
The inquiry made ckn·lnpL'<l that t hc foll1l\\·i11g fa ch \\'ere asl'cr ·
t:,ined l1y our nrand :\Tasters :\[onroc and Filmer:
The applicant had lin·d fo1· many years in Ikrkeley, \\'here Durant
Lodge is located, bore an excellent reputation. a11d came well vot•chc(I
for. He was elected to affiliate with Durant Lodge. He i11formed the
officers of Durant Lodge that he had hcC'n expelled fro111 all the rights
and privileges of l\!asonry by the (;ra11cl Lodge cf :\fassaclmsetts. lwd
made an application to that hndy for restoration in the year 1904: arnl
had reccin·d in reply thereto the lett(•r relied 011 as being a dimit or
consent.
Being in some doubt as to the snfficicncr of the same as a· dimir
or wail·cr of j nrisdiction, the :\Laster of Dmant Lodge submitted it to
a memhC'r of the then Committee on Jurisprudenct· of this Grand Lodge
(Brother J. \V . ..\ndcrson) for the opinion nf such crnmnittee, the
Grand Lodge being then in session. Brother Anderson, supposedly at
Last. consnlted other members of the committee. and mh·ised the .\la;;~
!er that th<.: paper shonlcl be regarded as a dimit or wai\'er of all claims,
and that the lodge \\'as authorized to act upon the application. fn
passing it is proper to note that none of the present rnemben' of this
comrnitk~ ''as then a member thereof. The m;1tter was nut reported
to the Cram! Lodge, or, so far as we can find, e\'Cr called to the :ttl('!l·
t inn of the then Cr and Master. Thcrcqmn the application was reccinccl
and cnn,;idcrerl by Dnrnnt Lodge, \\'ith the resnlt already not('<!. Tlwn'

GHAND LODGEl OF CALIFORNIA

44[)

is nothing \vhate\·cr to indicate that the officers and members of Durant
Lodge did not act in
faith, honestly believing that the lodge was
anthorized to receive ;ind act upon the application and elect the applicant to membership. The advice giYcn by the Committee on J urispru ·
dence to ·the officers of Dt1rant Lodge was of such a nature that they
did not deem it m'ecssa ry to pnrstte the inquiry further. This is easy
to understand, in view of the high standing of the then members of
this committee, one of whom. by his work 011 :\Jasonic law in this jnr·
isdiction, has established, beyond question, his reputation as one well
n·rsC'd in the laws and regulations of f.Iasonry.

The following was also mack to appear to onr Grand :\la,;krs
:\lonroe and Filmer:

In the year 1904 Brother :'\lcGrew ha<l presented to the Cram!
Lodge of Massachnsclts a petition for restoration to tlw rights and
privileges of l\1asonry. Attache(I to the petition was a kttcr from onr
Past Grai1d Master \Veils, stating among other things :
"He does not desire to ask for membership within yonr jurisdiction, but only prays to be placed in a
where he can knnck at
the door of the :\1 awnic lodge in the home town where he has residccl
for the past ten years." That petition was referred tn a commit tcc for
investigation. the cnmmittce being one composed of the s11n·iyors of
the committee that had originally inwstigatcd the charges against him.
The committee made its report in writing to such Grand Lodge nn
December 14, 1904. The report rcfcrrccl to the letter of our Brother
\V ells. recited that th.: applicant desired to he reinstated only that he
might han: }fasonic communication with the hrcthren of California.
and concluded as follows; "And in consideration that by hcing restored
and reinstated he is not restored to membership in his .\fasonic Lodge,
* *
your committee report and recommend that Gifford H. C.
.\TcGrew. expelled by this Grand Lodge on the 12th day of September.
IR94, h.: restored to the rights and privileges of Freemasonry."
The printed proceedings of the Grand Lodge of :l\fossachnsctts show
the following action on said report:
"The report wa,; accepted. Upon the qnesl ion nf adopting- the
recommendation of the committee there was
fnll discussion and hy
Yote of 40 to 21 it was decided that the petitioner ha-c·c lca1·c to with
dra1l1." The italics are ours. The recording Grand Secretary of Mas ..
,;achusetts thereupon wrote to Mr. :\kC.rcw the follnwing letter:
"Grand LudgT oi J\la,.;sachusctts. :\la,-1mic Tempk. Ho;.tnn. Jan
uary 18. 1905. To C. TT. C. llfcCrcw, Ri'rkeley, California: f a111
directed by Rallis Sanford. Esq., Gram! .\faster of .\fascms in ?\Iassa
chnsctts. to advise you that a petition from you was presented at the
Quarterly Communication of said Grand Lodge, held in September last,

44()

l'HOCEEDINGS OF '.l'Hf<J

GRAND LODGE OF CAL11''0RNIA

prayillg for your re,toration to the rights and pri,·ileges of l\fasonry.
The pdition was referred to a special committee. who reported at the
Quarterly Comnrnnication of the Grand Lodge held in December last.
A ftcr a full discussion it was decided that the petitioner have lc:ave tn
withdraw. ( .\tkst) Sereno D . .:\ickerson, Recording Grand Secretary."

mean to intimate that we have any opinion un that question. and simply
wish to say that we believe, in justice to all concerned, further investigation should be made.

This i:; the paper accepted by Durant Lo(lge as al'thorizbig it to
accept the application for affiliation.
There was absolntdy nothing de,·cloped to warrant e1·e11 a suspicion
that the officc1·s ancl members of Durant Lodge <lid not act in the highest good faith, honestly believing that the Lodge was authorized to
rccei,·e and act upon the application, and without any idea that the
Grand Lodge of :\f;,ssaclmsdt3 had not in fact done what was fairly
C'videnced liy its official record and by the documents emanating fro111
the office oi its Grand Secretary. vi?..: 'While not restoring Mr. McGrew
to all the rights and
of l\fasonry in l\Iassachusetts, it had
\\'<lived all claim of further jurisdiction over him, thus leaving him free
to apply for affiliation in other jmisdictions, and leaving other inrisdic·
tions free to accept hi111 as a member.

\Ve find that after hm-ing ascertained these facb, onr Grand :\faster
:\[on roe wrote a long and courteous letter to the Grand l\laster ()f
:\[assachusetts in which he stated folly the facts wc have detailed and
said he could not llnd any warrant for holding that onr Durant Lodge
h:td acted otherwise than in good faith and, in view oi the facts, upon
sufficient basis. vVc regret that the Grand Lodge of i\fassachusetts in
making its statement of facts to the :\Iarnnic world saw lit to omit
reference to this lctkr am! its contents. \V c fort her regret that Grand
:\[aster Monroe did not suhmit a report as to his action in this matter
fo the Grand Lodge. but we folly appreciate that his failure to do so
was due to a desire on his p:1rt to pre\-cnt the appea1·ance in the records
of matter showing any scrions differences of opinion between the
Cram! Loclgc of l\fassaclmsc•tt' and this Grand Lodge, he frlly believina;
that in view of the information contain('(} in his letter the matter wonl1l
not he further prcssc-<1 by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts.
\V c concur in the views expressed by Grand ]\faster l\Ionroe in his
kt !cr as to the good faith of our Durant
anti we do not SC'<:
hnw the dection of Brother l\lcGrcw to mrn1bership therein can, und('r
all the
he held to be mid.
To our minds there is but one ((llt'Stion remaining of which we
should. or c·an, t;1kl' cng111za11ct', 11;1rnely. whether .\Ir. l\kCrcw, in prc>l'11li11g hi, applic;1tio11 to llurant Lodgl', was guilty nf a11.1· fratHluk11t
misn·prc"·11tatiu11 or ('<IJH'c•;d111('11l rc·latin· (o his stat1·:; as a .\lason. 1f
he wa', be sltonld undouhkdly lie proceedul against in Durant Lodge'
011 ch;1rges regularly presented. Upon this question the facts before t1'
arc nnt such
to enable us to make an intelligent report. vV c do not

447

\Ve recommend that the action of our Grand .\laster l\fonrue in
regard to this matter be, and the same is. IJl·rehy appro,·ed. \Ve further
recommend that our incoming Grand ::\faskr he requested to i11\'esti ..
gate the c1uestion of the good faith of Brother ::\fcCrew in the matter
of the presentation of his application for affiliation, and determine
whether or not the circumstances are ,cuch as to makc it proper that
charges should be preferred against him in Dur;111t Lodge, and take
such action thereon as he may deem advisahk.

F. l\l. A NGELLOTTr.
CH.\S. L P.\TTOK,
DAN.\

Rr:rn \Vl'LLEK.
Committee.

The report was adopted as presented.

AJ\lEN D~lE:\T TO CONSTITL'TIU:\.
The Committee on ] urisprudencc reported the following:
Tu the J1- '. rv:. Cra11d Lodge of Califomia:
Yonr Committee on Jurisprudence han· had under c•m~idcration
the suggestion of the Grand St'cretary which was rderrc:cl to us, that
some provision of law should be enacted tn oll\'iate the confusion that
now results from the use of certificates of standing in lieu of dimits in
the matter of petitions for the formation of m·w lodges, !ht· idea being
that memhcrs using s11ch certiticatcs fail ,;nhscquently to formally withdraw from their old Lodges. with the result that they apparently remain
memhers of two Lotlgcs. \Ve believe this suggestion tu he a good one,
and in line with his recommendation on the subject we propose the
following amendment to our constitution and reconuncrnl its adoption :
.\dd to Section 161 of the Constitntiun (Sec. 8. Art. 1. Part V) at
the end thereof the following·:
"Upon the granting hy the Grand Master of a dispensation ior the
formation of a new Lodge, the membership of any signer of the petition therefor in any other Lodg·e in this jurisdiction. from which he
has not alrcady withdrawn, shall ips1J f,rc/o ct«lst': pn.,1·i<kd, however,
that lw ,;hall ;WVl'rthekss ht: liahle for and ,;hall pay lo such Lodge
rnch unpaid dues as may have accrued between the date of his certificate of standing in such Lodge and the date of the granting of such
1lispensation. :\ certificate of starnling in lieu of dimit may he received

448

PHOCEBLJlNUl:J OF THE

GHANP LOllGt•; OF C.\LJFORNIA

with a petition for the formation of a new Lodge only "·hen it cmanatc:;
from ;.;onw Lodge ,,f this jurisdiction.··

The report was adopted. and the section amended by
nnanirnous vote.

FRANK ).L\RJOJ\'
CHAS.

L.

ANGELLO'f'fl.

PATTON,

vV.\r. s. WELLs,
f),\NA Rl\rn Wl\LU:R.

]. D. MURPHEY,
Com mi ttce.

The report was adopted and section 161 of the Constitution \vas amended hy unanimuus vote.
To Ilic JI:·

449

w:. Gra11d Lodge of Califurnia:

1

Committc·c 011 Jnri;;prndcncc ha\'C considered the Cra11d {\(a;.:.
ter's recommcwbtion ''that the Constitution he amended so as to
eliminate the nece>sity of the payment of the fee now prescribed for
a dispensation to hold an election to fill a \acancv caused hv either
death or resignation." l:'ndcr our law, the :\Taste~ has pow<;:r to Iii!
any Yacancy in office except that of ;\faster or \Vardem. (Section
l 38c). \V c ha 1·c decided that he should appoint a Secretary or Treasurer tn ill! a \'acancy. except under peculiar circmnsta11ccs. (Section
l38d). A.ml alsu that. in case of the death of the {\Jaster. the \Vankns
succeed. and a dispensation need not be applied for.
Yot r

As we do not require these offices to he tilled. it cannot he fairlv
said that any Lodge is C\'cr penalized on account of the death or rcsi~­
nation of any officer. and t:1crefore the committee can see no rcas~n
for any change in our law.

Grand Lodge did not concur in the report. but did adopt
the recommendation of the Grand :\laster, and subsequently
the Committee on Jurisprudence reported the following-:
The Grand Lodge hal"ing adopted the recommendation of the Grand
}laster that "the Constitution be amenckd so as to eliminate the necessity io1· the payment of the iee now prescribed for a dispensation to
~old an election to till a vacancy caused by either death or resignal •on." your committee offers th(· following resolution and recommencb
its adoption :

R«soh:cd, That suhdi1·isio11 third of "'clion 39 of the Com•titution
be amended by adding at the end thereof the iolltlwing:
Provided, howe\·cr, tliat if such dispensation to hold an election is
.f?r the purp:)se of lilling a vacancy caused by either death or resigna·
'1011 of any officer, no charge shall he mack therdor.

To t!tc M.': IV.'. Gra11d Lodge of California:
Your committee find the reasoning of the Grand ::\laster as to the
l'hange in the section providing for the consolidation of Lodges very
persuasive. and therefore offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:
Rcsoh·cd. That section 91 of the Constitution he amended by adding
at the end thereof the following: "Or hy the Grand :\faster dnring tlv;
intcn·als between the Communications of th(· Grand Lodge."

The recommendation was apprO\·ecl ancl
<:mended by unanimous Yote.

the section

To the M.'. w:. Graud Lodge of California:
The Grand Master re.commends th<." followini.t amendment to the
Constitution: "208:\. Xo judgment of a trial commission shall be
set aodclc. or new trial granted. for any error of any sort as to pleading:,
procedure, or introduction of c\'idencc, unless, after an examination of
the entire case, including the evidence. the G1·and Lodge shall be of the
opinion that the error has resulted in a miscarriage of justice."
·while -vour committee is of the opinion that there is ample po1wr
in the Gra1;d Lodge to do snhstantia I justice in any case coming before
it, by appeal or otherwise, it can see many good reasom for making this
fact plain ~ direct amendment, and therefore recommends that the proposed amendment be adopted.

Grand Lodge concurred in the report and the Constitution was amended hy adding the section proposed hy
unanimous vote.
Past Grand Master \Villiam S. \Veils. President oi the
'.\Iasonic Homes. announced that a special train woulrl
leave for the Home at Decoto at l o·clock today. and
urged the representatives generally to Yisit and inspect
the property.
Thereupon the Grand Lodge was called off until 10
o'clock Thursday morning.

450

PROC1,;EDINGS 01? THE

Ju (irauh J!johgr
;\forning Session.
Thursday, ( ktoher 14, 1915.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
:\faster presiding.
'fhe minutes of yesterday·s session were read and apprm·ed.

REPORT OF CO:.\L\HTTEE ON CREDENTIALS.
Brother Jimmie .\'. Hall, Chairman of the Committee
on Credentials, reported the following officers and repre-

se11tati1·es of 3_;3 chartered Lodges, delegates from seven
Lodges under dispensation. and Past Masters by sen·ice
within thit< jurisdiction. as being present, viz.:
California

_.......... Ko.

1....Harry L. Dewey, :\faster:
Jesse ::\f. vVhitcd. Senior \Varden;
I-L1rris D. Connick, Junior \Varden;
II. .-\scroft, Past Master;
H. A. Cline, Past Master;
P. M. Downing, Past 1faster;
D. E. F. Easton, Past Master;
Vv. H. Harrelson, Past Master:
W. C. Hassler, Past Master;
F. V. Keesling, Past Master;
H. A. Marvin, Past Master;
IL ::\f. Owens, Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past :\foster:
E. Peabo1ly, Past :\faster;
R H. \Vilkox, Past Master.

\Vcstern Star _...... No.

2.. _Richard B. Ross, Sen. \Var. & Past J\faRter.

Tehama .

3..-Donald .\fcCiain. Master:

..... No.

Albert Greilich, Senior Warden;
R J. Carpenter, Past Master;
J. :'.\kindore, Past Master;
1'. J. Milliken, Past :\Taster;
F. L. Thirkield, Past Master.
Benicia . .. .............. No.

5.... J. De P'on-st. Pa:;t ;\faster.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Tnolumne ............. No.

451

8....Thomas L. Richards, Master;
G. 1'. Black, Past Master;
E. J. Segcrstrom, Past Master;
C. E. Shafer, Past Master.
Corinthian ............ No. 9....Arthur W. Gluckman, Master;
L. B. \Vikoxon, Inspector & Past ]\faster.
San Jose .............. No. 10.._Frederick Doerr, Master;
Allan 0. Matthew, Senior Warden;
Albert E. Sandbo, Junior \Varden;
J. P. Jarman, Inspector & Past Master;
R. Lowe, Past Master;
J_ H. McGehee, Past :\laster;
L. V. Saph, Past :\faster;
C. H. \Vheekr, Past Master.
Yount ......... .. ....... No. 12..-J a mes Gillies, Master;
J. B. Stevens, Past Master;
F. W. \Villiams, Past .Master.
Nevada
.......... No. 13 ....James Snell, :\faster;
F. L. Arbogast, Past :'.\faster;
J. F. Colley, Inspector & Past ."vfoster.
Temple .................. No. 14.... E. S. Michelssen, Past Master.
Eureka .................... No. 16.. _Lincoln Buchanan, Master;
Guy W. Brundage, Junior Warden;
H. Disque, Past Master;
::'IL D. Lininger, Inspector & Past Master.
La Parfaite Union .. No. 17...•Henry Mottet, Master & Past :\faster;
Alfred Gehret. Senior Warden;
A. L. Auradou, Past Master;
A. K. Com·y, Past llfaster;
M. E. Diebold, Past Master;
A. Huguenin, Past Master.
. Mountain Shade .... No. 18.... E. L. Case, Inspector, Master & Past llfaster.
San Joaquin .......... No. 19....Charlcs B. Pearson, Master.
Washington .......... No. 20.... Frank J. Bock, Master.
Hawaiian .............. No. 21....Thos. J. Baker,. Representative.
Occidental ............ No. 22....Charles P. Fonda, Master;
llfartin A. Schmidlin, Senior Warden;
George E. Kammerer, Junior \Varden;
H. Burner, Past Master;
S. H. Clawson, Past Master;
vV. K. Fletcher, Past Master;
F. W. G. Moebus, Past ).faster;
H. F. \\Tilson, Past l\Ia:;tcr.

452
.\fadison

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

................ No.

23....\Villiam J. Peters, :\laster;
\V. Edwards, Past Master;
G. L. Jones, Past :Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

).Jartincz ......

453

..So. 41.... W. A. Hale, Past ]\faster;
W. S. Wells. Past '.\faster.

Los . \ngeles ........ No. 42....Frank J. De:\fott. Master;

Mariposa -----........... No. 24 ....F. H. B. Catherwood. Master & P. Master.
L. A. C. H. Kylberg, Inspector & P. :\faster;
E. P. \Vason, Past Master.

C. P. Smith, Past ).faster;

A. A. \Velis. Past Master;
G. W. Yarrow, Past :\faster.

Georgetown _____ ..... No.

25 .... A. l\L Presby, Past '.\faster.

11 iram .................... No.

43....J. A. Fisher, Representative & Past Master.

Palmyra

... No.

26 .... \'l/illiam F. Bray, ;'I.faster;
L. A. Reeg, Inspector & Past l\fa~ter.

).fount l\!oriah .... So.

44 ...John J. Stahl, l\fastcr;

Trinity

'·····--··-··· ... No.

Golden Gate .......... No.

30_ .. Lester A. Blair, ".\!faster;
William P. Caubu, Senior \Varden;
Robert W. Dewar, Junior \Varden;
\V. A. T. Agard. Past Master;
P. R. Bjick, Past Master;
A. F. Heuer, Past ;\faster;
E. L. Meyer, Past .Master;
J. Patterson, Past Master.

Cold Hill .............. No.

Ophir ..................... No.
San Diego .............. No.

St. John's .............. No.

H cnry N. Clift, Senior \Varden;
Roy A. Pratt, Junior \Varden;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
T. Frolich, Past Master;
J. C. Jens, Past ]\faster.

27 .. ~Chas. E. Goodyear, :\laster & Past ".\faster.

Crescent

........ .1\ o.

Texas ......

... No.

Forltcstown

__________ No.

Yubn

.......... No.

50.... \Villiarn J. Schlitz, l\faster & Past l\laster;
Fred 0. Alm. Senior Warden.

lllinoistow11 .......... No.

51.. .. R. :\. Peers, Past Master.

S11is11u ---------··---------:fo.

55 .... J. H. :.\Iurray, Inspector & Past ).[aster.

33 ....John T. Morley, :'.\faster & Past l\fastc1·;
D. B. Driver, Past Master.

Volcano,

... Xo. 56 ....Jamcs Giannini, Rcprc.<entativc .

Santa Rosa

.... No.

35 ...•David A. Loebenstein, Master;
E. C. Bangs, Inspector & Past ".\!faster;
W. Kettner, Past Master;
E. B. Levi, Past Master.

Union ...................... No.

4-0...•Julian F. Johnson, Master;
F. J. Bidwell, Past l\Ia~ter;
R. P. Burr, Past Master;
J. B. Giffin, Past Master;
\V. D. Knights, Past l\faster;
J. H. Stephens, Past :\laster.

58 ....l\Iallory E. Enos. Master;
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
W. \V. Douglas. Past Master;

J. F. l\forgan, Inspector & Past ).faster;
C. A. Root, Past }faster.

38 .... Henry Rhein, Senior \Varden.

39....Charles E. Turner, Master & Past ;\faster:

57 .... Hnhcrt W. Bcardin, Master;
C. D. Barnett, Past }faster;
A. G. Burnett, Past Master;
C. B. Kobes, Past Master.

37....Georgc A. DeWitt, Master;
A. C. Abshire, Past Master;

J. B. Fuller, Past Master;
E. E. Stone, Past Master.
Sacramento .......... No.

46.... William R. Flint. ".\Iast0r & Past ".\Taster.

32.... Hans P. Jansen, Master & Past ).faster;
J. Gerber, Past Master;
G. F. Pemberton, Past Master.

J. J. Wilson, Past l\faster.
Sa11t;i Cmz .......... No.

45 ...Joseph M. Hamilton. l\fastcr & Past !\faster;
0. Dndley, Past Master.

Gravel Range ........ l'\o.

59... Harold Kelson, Master & Past l\foster.

Plumas .................. No.

60.... J. 0. Moncur, Rep., Ipsp. & Past :!\•laster.

Live Oak ............... So. 61.. .. Ezra W. Decoto, Master;
Lee S. Greswold. Senior \Varden.
Cliarks 11. Victor, Junior \Varden;
W. J. Garibaldi, In spec.tor & Past }faster;
.\. B. \Vebstcr. Inspector & Past Master;
C. H. Wood. Past Master.
(:co. \Vashington .No.

62 .... G. K. Porter, Past }laster.

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

:\atoma

________________ :\ o.

.\mador ----·--- ..... ____ .No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALII<"ORNIA

455

64 ...•Solomon Wahrhaftig, .:\laster;
\Villiam Cruickshank, Senior \\'arden;
William J. Waites, Junior ""'ardrn.

St. Helena ____ ........ No.

93 ....John S. Xoble, Master & Past l\Iaster.

Henry Clay ____________ N"o.

95 ....Gustave Schrader, .:\faster & Past Master.

65 ..•William T. Brewer, Master & Past l\Iaster:

Howard .................. No.

96 .. ~Howard O'Connor, Senior Warden;

J. E. Dye, Inspector & Past Master;
R. T. Kerr, Past Master.

Jefferson ................ No.

97 ....Richard H. Kingdon, .'\faster & Past ]\faster:
J. Wiegand, Past Master.
99.... A. F. Pedriers, Past ]\faster.

Forest ----------.. _______ No.

66 ...Louis Barnes, ~faster.

Yosemite

__ .. ____ .... _.No.

~Iorning

68 __ £!mer H. McGowen, ~faster;
Jesse \V. Wheatley, Junior Warden;
C. Ball, Past Master ;
G. H. Buttrick, Past l\Iaster;
0. S. Henderson, Past Master;
G. A. McKenzie, Past Master.

Clay

________ .. ___ ... No. lOL .Solon Mc K. Curtis, ]\faster & Past l\Iaster;
J. H. LaKamp, Past Master.

70..•Carl G. Ott, Master & Past l\Iastcr.

Lexington __ ,, .. ______ .. ?\ o. 104.... A. C. Drake, Representative.

76 ___Thos. H. Davey, Sen. War. & Past Master;

,\rcata ________ ........... No. 106 ....G. H. Burchard, Rep. & Past l\Iaster.
l\f. P. Roberts, Past .'\laster.

Star ________ )fo.

Enterprise _______ ,, ___ .. No.
Bear

~fountain ___ .. ?\ o.

F. W. Clough, Inspector & Past Master.
Calaveras

_______ No.

If umholdt

____________ No.

78 ....James A. Smith. Master & Past Master.

Pajaro

_____ No. 110___ ,Robcrt H. Hudson, ]\faster.

79 ... Herbert R. Inskip, .:\laster;
J. B. Brown, Past Master;
T. R. Dinsmore, Inspector & Past ~laster:
J. F. George, Past Master;
A. J. l\J on roe, Past l\laster.

Chico ....

____ .. l\o. llL .. Fred H. Groat, .'\Jaster.

Summit

____ :\ o. 112 .... Fred \V.

Ione ·---------.. -------..... No.

80....George J. Yager, ]\faster & Past l\Iastcr.

Yolo

8L .. Asa F. Pettit, Master & Past l\Tastcr.

-----....... _____ )Jo.

Rising Star ------ .... No.
Vesper

---------.... No.

:\'a val

_____ ,, __ No.

Oroville _________ ......... N" o. 103 ___ Douglas R. Jacobs, l\Iaster;
A. E. Boynton, Past ]\faster;
C. 0. Hamilton. Inspector & Past l\Iaster

Eden

~[arston,

Master.

------------·----- ___ No. 113 ....Drew Monroe. Master;
\Vilton W. Shuhaw, Senior \Varden;
John B. Peppin, Junior Warden;
S. B. Force. Past Master;
J. B. l\Iills, Past Master.
....... No. 117 ... J-[enry A. Senf, Master.

83 ....Kenneth Chisholm, Jun. War. & P. Master;
A. Dolt, Past Master.

Concord
Clinton

____ .. ___ ... No. 119 .... Francis :M. A. Wilder, Master & P . .:\laster.

84....Granville Woolman, Master;
Arthur H. Fickert, Senior \\Tarden.

Fidelity

___ No. 120., .. Benjamin Kraus, ~-faster;
Shalon Silverstone, Senior \Varden:
Victor Aaron, Junior Warden :
J. D. Abrams, Past Master;
J. :\ieto, Past Master.

87 .... James Ramsay, Master;
Harry H. Holmes, Senior \\Tardrn:
Thomas Brown, Junior \Varden;
\V. Brownlie, Past Master:
C. W. Causbrook, Past Master;
J. J. Luchsinger, - Past Master.

.\lamo __________ .......... No. 122 ....Edgbert B. Reed, Master:
Oscar F. Olsson, Senior Warden;
Herbert H. Daley, Junior \Varden.

R9 .Joseph \Vidner, Master & Past .'\laster;
Joseph Durfee, Rep. & Past l\las!C'r.

Sntnyome ... _______ .. _:'\o. 123 .... Edwin n. Thompson, l\fastcr:
E. Rush, Inspector & Past :\laster.

:\orth Star ____________ No.

91. .. H. V. Levy, Inspector & Past .:\laster.

Table :\fountain __ So. 124... Jfenry F. Bader, 1\Iastcr & Past 1\fastcr.

.'lcacia

92 ...John McKay. Junior \Varden.

La Fayette

__ No.

_____ l\o.

. ______ No. 126 .... Fred F. Ames, Senior \Varden.

456

Hermann

PlWCEEDINGS OF THE

.............. Xo. 127...Hermann F. H. Schmidt, l\Iaster;
Emil A. N cumarkel, Senior \Varden;
Ludwig .l\lugcle, Junior \Varden;
L. .l\luller, Inspector & Past .l\Iaster;
S. J. Theisen, Past .l\faster;
H. H. Newman, Rep. & Past .l\Iastcr.

GIUN1> LOD3E OF CA LIFOHNlA

Vitruvius

Valley

........ No. 135 ....Chas. \\'.Thomas, Sen. \Var. & Past .l\Iaster.

Pacific

..... No. 136.. _Thomas Anderson, Senior \Varden;
Frank Mueller, Junior \Varden:
J. \V. Anderson, Past I\Iastcr;
1. J. Aschheim, Past l\Iaster;
Ci. L. Darling, Past ]\faster;
F. L. Hansen. Past .l\faster;
(~. 1\L Perine, Past l\faster;
A. \V. Turpin, Past Master;
S. Zcmansky, Past .l\faster.

Crockett

Curtis
Crafton
franklin
Oriental

....

................ No. 139.... A rtlmr Brand, Master;
\Valter E. Sammis. Senior \Varden;
James \V. Davis, Junior \Varden;
J. 0. L. Brunswig, Past Master;
fl. J. Lloyd, Past Master:
H. l\lcBirney, Past Master;
T. Rowlands. Past Master.
..... ,.... No. 140.... E. A. Cooley, Representative & Past '.\laster.
....... ."No. 14L.. Rodney M.
Master & Past .l\[astcr;
F. E. Ely, Representative & Past l\lastcr.
......... No. 143 ...• E. M. Kercheval, Rep. & Past Master;
IL D. Kercheval, Past Master.
..... No. 144....Charles W. Whitney, l\lastcr;
John F. Clute, Senior \Varden;
Thomas Harris, Junior \Varden;
0. L. Berry, Past Master;
C. W. Dohie, Past l\laster;
W. S. Hamilton. Past ]\faster;
R. C. Jcw ell. Past Master;
F. B. Ladd, Past Master;
G. B. Lake, Past Master;
J. Tonningsen, Past Master.

------------------------·---~--·

...... So. 145 ...\Vm ..\. Cockrill. Jun. \Var. & Past l\Iaster.

:\hell ..................... No. 146 ...1-1 ale :'llcCo\\'cn, Jr. . .l\fastcr;
\V. Bromley, Inspector & Past l\iaster;
J. l\I. Mannon, Sr .. Past Master.

Eel River .............. No. 147..•George W. Long, Master;
Robt. L. Harris, Sen. \Var. & Past ]\faster;
John M. Connick. Jun. \Var. & Past Master:
M. Chidester, Past ]\faster .

Xicolaus ................ Xo. 129 ... Henry C. Jasper, Master.
\Voodbridge ......... Ko. 13L..F. G. Perrott, Representatiw & Past Master.
Sincerity
......... No. 132 ....\Villiam G. Stevenson, Representati,·c.
Vacaville
.......... Xo. 134 ....Herbert F. Fowler, .l\Iastcr & Past l\Iastcr.

457

L.assen

............. No. 149.. _J. c\. Pardee. Past Master;
J. B. Spaulding, Rep. & Past

.l\I olino ............ ...... .:\ o . 150.. _John T. Youles. Master & Past .l\Tastcr .
\Voodland

....... No. 156.. _\Varren A. Brown, :\faster;
H. H. Gable, Inspector & Past .l\faster.

ll a rmony

............ So. 164...William .-\. LaYcry, l\faster & Pa!'t :\last('r.

Excelsior ................ No. 166 ___James 11. Lewis. :\faster;
Benjamin :\!. \Vood. Senior ·warden;
C. A. Adams, Past Master;
\V. N. Brnnt, Past :\faster;
E. L. Forster, Past !\faster;
H. C. Gingg, Past !\faster;
R. G. Guyett, Inspector & Past .l\lastcr;
Darrel A. 1-1 are, Past Master;
F. C. Hensley, Past Master;
H. J. Owen, Past Master.
,\lamcda ................ No. 167 .. _Elmo M. Grimmer, Master;
Frnnk B. Hartman, Senior \Varden;
A. Norris, Past .Master.
Hedwood City ...... So. 168....\Villiam H. Kelso, Senior Warden;
J. E.
Past Master;
T. 0. 1Teydenfeldt, Past Master;
C. G. Landscheit, Inspector & Past :r-.la;;ter.

l\Iio,sion .................. No. 169....Eugene B. Hallett, Master;
Thomas L Janes, Senior \Varden;
Lew E. \Vallace, Junior \Varden;
R. E. Allan, Past Master;
R. S. Allen, Inspector & Past :\ [aster;
\V. \V. Moore, Past Master;
M. H. Renwick, Past Master;
0. L. Sues, Past .l\laster;
E. \V. Tucker, Past ]\faster.

458
Elk Grove

..... No. 173 .... Stanlcy R. Gage, :I.laster:
A. H. Watson, Pa:-:t l\last;r.
Drytown -··-··········--!\ o. 174 .... Hcnry Os home, l\f aster.
Phoenix

GIUNlJ LODGE OF CALIFOltNIA

l'HOCEEDINGS OF THE

......... No. 178 .... William J. Kinley, Master:
John Calbertson. Junior \Varden·
\V. H. ~-[owes, Inspector & Past ~laster;
M. ] . .'\ cwherg, Past Master.

l\lendocino

..... No. 179 ....C. Banker, Representative & p as t iv
'[ aster;
J. \V. Fraser, Past l\Iaster.

Petaluma

.... Ko. 180.... Sophus C. Plow, .!\laster.

Rmsian RinT ....... No. 18L..Clw!'ter Van Grafen. Senior Warden·
G. T. Trowbridge, Past Master.
'
Clear Lake ........... No. 183 .... Lot1i
J
''[
. s ago, s aster;
Ralph A. Huntington, Senior \Varden.
Sierra Valley....... Ko. 184.. -James M. Turner, Master & Past Master.
Keith
.)fo. 187 .... Ch;irles Hornbeck, Junior \Varden;
W. F. Blake, Past Master;
G. E. Skillieorn, Past l\Jastcr.
Oakland
...... ____ No. 188. ... Daniel W. Pratt, Master;

R. B. Gaylord, Past Master:

J. B. Merritt, Past Master:
H. T. :\foore, Past :\-faster;
C. X. Walter, Past Master.

X orthern Light ... No. 190.... Levi P. Rawlings, Master.
".\farin --- .................. No. 19L .. Albert N. Boyen, 1\fastcr;
\rthur L. Adams, Senior \Varden·
Jnhn Clute, Junior Warden;
'
F. M. Angellotti, Past Master;
G. F. Rodden, Inspector & Past :\foster.
Santa Rarbara ........ N o. 192.... Samuel J. Heyl, Junior \Varden.
Ferndale ............... No. 193 .... Herbert N. Briggs, Master;
E. A. Pierson, Past :\faster.
:'If nnntain View ...... i'\ o. 194....Robert Rankin, :\faster;
Harvey Ainsworth, Senior \Varden;
C. P. Berry, Representative & Past 1\Iaster.
Buckeye .................. No. 195.... Dillard R. Guthrie, ]\faster;
Edward H. Edwards, Junior \Varden·
. '

J. E. Sackett, Past Master.

159

San Simeon .......... No. 196....Edward Reghctti, Master;
A. Frankl, Past Master.
\Vilmington .......... No. 198 .... Anthony N. \Vinchester, Senior Warden.
Hartley .................. :fo. 199....James W. Beck, Master;
S. Mathews, Inspector & Past Master;
C. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Truckee .................. No. 200...George Carson, Master & Past ;\faster.
Silveyville .............. No. 201....Angus C. Madden, Master.
Pentalpha .............. No. 202.... Francis M. Parker, Master;
\V. R. Hervey, Past Master.
Confidence ............. So. 203 .... Walter C. Bnttle, Master & Past J\Iastcr.
Salinas

.................. No. 204.... Robert Warnock, Master;
Robert D. Logan, Senior Warden.

Newville ................ No. 205 ....0. W. Houghton, Rep. & Past Master.
·Anaheim ................ No. 207 .... l\forris W. Marten et, :\faster.
Rio Vista .............. No. 208 ____)." cil R. Hamilton, :Master.
King David's ........ .No. 209 .. -Jolm C. James, Master;
Walter D. Ardiance, Sen. \Var. & Past Mas.
Oliver H. P. Meck, Junior Warden;
J. Whicher, Past Master.
Friendship ............ No. 210..-John J. Schmidt, Master;
William W. Paull, Senior Warden;
F. T. E. Edmans, Past Master;
G. T. Lemon, Past Master.
San Benito :........... No. 211....James A. Cushman, Master;
Richard W. O'Bannon, Senior Warden.
So. S. Francisco.. No. 212 .... Henry E. Nolan, Master;
William G. Green, Senior \Varden;
\V. J. B. \Varner, Past Master.
S. Buena Vcntura No. 214.... Delbert A. Reese, Master;
\Varren M. Stockwell, Senior Warden;
D. J. Reese, Inspector & Past Master.
Oak Grove ........... No. 215 .... Henry F. Strachan, Master;
Henry C. Lassen, Senior \Varden;
Otto H. Fischer, Junior Warden;
C. A. Allardyce, Past .!\faster;
J. N. Eschen, Past Master;
E. D. Rue, Past Master.

Doric

UlU..Nll LUl.JGl:: OF C:Al~IFOHNL\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

460

................. No. 216._Willimn P. Read, .i\!aster;
Manuel Lafoe, Senior \Varden;
Leonard T. Pockman, Junior \Varden;
\V. B. Cameron, Past Master;
B. Levi, Past Master;
S. Myrson, Past :\laster;
A. A. Rosenshine, Pa:;t Masler,

.i\lontcrcy

. .So. 217 .• Frank 0. :\lassie, .!\faster.

J\f osaic

.. No. 218 ...T. T. Brady, Representative.

Speranza Italiana .. Xo. 219 ...}\ntonio Cogliandro, :\laster;
Sisto Rasori, Senior \Varden;
Giovanni Fiscalini, Junior \Varden:
G. B. Cordano. Past Master;
C. C. Pcini, Past Master.
Downey

.............. .No. 220....Walter R. :\ioberly. .i\Iaster;
J. M. Reeves, Past Master.

Inyo

.... No. 221. .•William A. Calbert, ]\faster.

Granite

..... No. 222 ....0vid H. Ricksecker, ]\faster & Past '.\faster.

llakcrsfirl,[

Brooklyn

........... No. 224 ...Earl B. Gilbert, :\Taster;
Henry Eissler, Junior \Varden;
A. S. Crites, Inspector & Past Master:
Elbert Porter Munsey, Past Master.
l\o. 225 ...Edwin J. \Vold, Master;
Chester V. Newell, Senior Warden;
Lon is Sutter, J nnior \Varden;
H. P. Biggs, Past Master;
F. ]. Rennie, Past l\1aster;
G, D. \Varren, Inspector & Past :\laster.

San :\lat co ............ Ko. 226 ... Frederick E. Beer, l\fastcr;
Francie'> J. Cochran. Senior \Varden;
Jacob \V. Divdhiss, Junior Warden;
'vV. L. Johnstone, Past Master;·
H. l\f. Taylor, Past Master;
C. A. M. Vanderbos. Past Master;
C. A. Wainwright, Past Master.
........ No. 228..Srederick W. Wilson, Master.

461

s,,Jano ................... No. 229.... John :\1. Inglis, l\Jaster;
Osgood H. Hilton, Senior \Varden;
Samuel Lyttle, Junior \Varden;
H. II. Gonion, Past l\Iaster;
A. S. Halliday, P<1st Master;
R. L. Robertson, Inspector & Past ?-.faster;
]. E. Sanderson, Past Master;
]. F. Walter, Past l\Iaster.
Xorth Butte .......... No. 230 .. Edward P. Fagan, Master .
Covelo .........

No. 231.. .. Gcorge l\I. Biggar, l\Iaster & Past :\faster.

Janes1c·ille

..... No. 232 .. Charles Fl. Fisher, ]\faster;
S. H. Crow, Inspector & Past l\Iaster;
Granville Pullen, Past Master.

Calistoga

...... Ko. 233 ...Franklin Ashton, l\Iaster & Past 1'1 aster;
E. l\f. Billings, Past l\fastcr.

Surpris<' Valky ...... No. 235 ....Chris H. Hansen, Master;
\V. S. Stevens, Past }faster.
Hill's Ferry

.. .. .Ko. 236 ....J. H. Yancey, Rcpresentatfre & Past :\faster.

Guadalupe ..

... No. 237 ... Henry R. Gervc. Senior \.Varden;
]. Giacomazzi, Past Master; ·
vV. T. Lucas, Past Master.

Colusa ..................... No. 240.... Fernando J. J\Jendonsa, Master.
Santa Ana

.. No. 241.. .. Leonard F. ffan·cy, ]\faster;
E. H. Trago, Inspector & Past !l[ao-ter.

Magnolio .

.No. 242 .... Philip Crother, Representative;
J. T. Johnston, Past Master.

Eucalyptus ............ No. 243 .•Charles F. Suss, Master;
George \V. Madcley, Junior Warden;
M. ]. Madison. Rep. & Past ]\Jaster.
Alcatra;.

..... No. 244 ... Arthur H. Peterson, Mast<'r;
Carl C. Eien, Senior Warden;
Elbert W. Garrity, Junior \Varden;
L. T. Corwin, Past Master;
H. A. :\leese, Past Master.

Laurel ................... No. 245 ... Harry C. Bell, :\laster;
L. :\L Benoit, Past !\faster .
Pomona .................. No. 246 ... Alleu P. Nichols, :\laster & Past :\faster;
\V. A. Vandegrift, Inspector & Past :\faster.

462

GHANl.J LODG~ 0.1!' CALll<'OHNL'\

Fresno .................... No. 24i ..•George \V. Turner, Master;
William E. Toms, Junior Warden;
W. ]. Harris, Past Master;
A. I .. Smith, Inspector & Past l\Iaster.

Landmark .............. No. 253 ...T. Hall, Past Master;
Geo. Bourland, Representative.

Durant .................... No. 268 ....Gcorge H. Richardson, Master;
Walter A. Sloan, Senior Ward en ;
Elmer E. Meyers, Junior Warden;
0. K. Cloudnrnn, Past ]\faster;
\V. S. Coleman, Past Master;
R. Edgar, Past Master;
D. Finley, Past Master ;
A. Fot1ch, Past Master;
G. A. Griesche, Past Master;
G. E. Oxley, Past Master;
E. D. Thomas, Past Master;
\V. H. Waste, Past Master.

Reading .................. No. 254 J·L G. Hill, Inspector & Past Master;
l. J. Johnson, Representative & Past :.raster.

Olive Branch ....... No. 269 ..•DeWitt T. Frymire, Master;
F. A. Ellsworth, Inspector & Past Master.

\Velcome

Snow Mountain .... No. 2il....Roy L. \Valkup, Master & Past ]\.faster .

. \lturas .................. No. 248 .. ..Reuel A. Laird, Master;
C. S. Baldwin, Inspector & Past l.Iaster;
E. C. Bonner, Past Master.
Adin ....................... No. 250..•Homer LeR. Brown, Master.

li

Ii

463

........ No. 255 ..•Charley R. Blakely, Master;
,_
R. E. Shore, Inspector & Past Master.

Lodi ...................... .No. 256 ..•John Perrett, Senior Warden;
W. ]. Thomayer, Inspector & Past l\Iaster.
Penrhyn ............... No. 258. .•Portcr L. Taylor, Master.
Evergreen .............. No. 259..•0rville P. Sanders, :.faster;
H. D. French, Inspector & Past '.\laster.
King Solomon's .... No. 260....Frank W. Hosmer, Master:
John F. Campbell, Senior Warden;
Henry L. Green, Junior \Varden;
E. E. Conn, Past Master;
G. :\L Davis, Past Master;
\V. P. Filmer, Past Master;
F. B. Wood, Past :Yiaster.

Pasadena

.............. No. 2i2 .. _Wm. F. Creller, Master.

Anchor .................... No. 2i3 ....Edward M. James, Master.
Arroyo .................... No. 274....Robert M. Plympton, Master.
Oakdale .................. No. 275 ....D. E. Lee, Representative & Past Master.
Selma

2ii ...P. Allen, Representative & Past Master;
J. L. Mitchell, Inspector & Past Master.

South. California .. N o. 2i8.._William H. Harrison, Master;
B. H. Cook, Past Master;
W. P. Jeffries, Past Master;
E. B. Spencer, Rep. & Past Master;
D. R. \Veller, Past Master.
Hanford .................. No. 279.... Arthur J. Young, Master.

Tuscan ................... No. 261...lra A. Fouch, Sen. \Varden & Past Master;
G. H. Simmons, Inspector & Past :\laster.

Madera ................. No. 280.... W. H. Kling<;_nberg, Representative.

Lompoc .................. No. 262..-C. M. Tucker, Rep. & Past Master;
Ormond P. Paulding, Representative.

Callay<.i .............. No. 282.... Ralph P. Newcomb, Master & Past Master;
Ralph H. Read, Senior Warden;
H. C. Vandewater, Past Master.

Orland .................... No. 265 ...W. Clark, Inspector & Past Master;
R. O'H air, Representative & Past '°'laster.
North East ........... No. 266..•Byron F. J\kC0111hs, Master.
Galt

....................... No. 26i ....17rank A. \Varren, :\faster.

Mount Shasta ...... No. 281.._Goodrich T. Peacocke, Master.

South West .......... No. 283 ....Warner Edmonds, Master.
San Miguel

........ No. 285 ....Herbert H. Durham, Master;
George Parker, Junior Warden;
C. Forbes, Past Master.

Paso Rohlrs .......... No. 286 .... Sanford l\L Barher, Senior \Varden.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'HOCEBUINGS OF THE

464

\\'i1111cd11rnah

...... Xo. 287 .... Gcorgc A. Bigelow, Master;
I. 0. Clark, Tnspcctor & Past l\Iastcr.

i\Iaxwell ............... No. 283 .. Samuel E. Crutcher, Senior Warden.
Elsinore ................. No. 289 ... Jesse S. Cobb, Senior Warden.
East Gate ............. No. 290 ... Charles A. Holland, Master;
l\I. H. Flint, Past Master.
F. C. Mulkey, Past Master.
Santa Paula

...... No. 291.. .. Edward J. Canavan, Master.

Los Gatos .

....... No. 292 ... Paul E. Curtis, Master;
Elton i\1. Hogg, Senior \Varden;
Robert ll. Chandler, Junior \Varden.

Orange Grove ...... Xo. 293 .... Ashcr F. Lankford, Master.
Trayer

........ No. 294... Walter E. Simms, Master;
Henry E. Verble. Senior \Varden;
E. M. Kimberlin, Past Master.

:\It. Jackson .......... No. 295 .... Francis D. Trosper, Junior \Varden.
Siker Gate

..... So. 296.... William G. Barth, Master;
A. R. Jones, Past Master.

Dunsmuir ............. No. 297 .... G. A. Huyaff, Inspector & Past :VIastcr;
A. Levy, Past Master;
F. C. Nourse, Representative & Past l\Iastcr.

Delano ................... N'o. 309 ....0tto A. Clasen, l\Iaster;
J. J. Schlitz, Past ]\faster;
A. Sheppard, Past l\Iaster;
H. D. Zimmerman, Past Master.
Sisson

................. Xo. 310 ...•Waltcr C. Allingha1u, Master.

Los llanos

..... No. 312 ...Frank H. Thomas, Master;
J. F. Muth, Past :VIaster;
J. E. Place, Inspector and Past :\laster;
\V. J. Stockton, Past l\Iaster.

'l'l'hachapi

..... X o. 313 .• N' ewell J. Brown, Jr., i\Iaster;
Harry J. Beauford, Senior Warden.

Temcscal
Norwalk

.................. No. 299 ... Charles L. Gruwell, Master;
Xels A. Linderoth, Senior \Varden;
J. C. .Morrison, Past Master.

.... No. 314..• Harry L. Lyman, Master.
....... N'o. 315 ..•John B. Reeve, Senior Warden;
J. Hay, Representative & Past l\Iaster.

Sanger

.............. N"o. 316.. ..Fredcrick G. Bennett. Master;
]. E. Burnett, Past l\Iaster.

Fallbrook

...... No. 317 .... Edward C. Reader, Master.

Emmanuel

..... No. 318 .... Millard F. N' cff. Master & Past l\Iastcr;
H. Cohn, Past Master.

I J ollenbeck

.. X o. 319 ...Henry W. Reynolds, Master;
John Swanfeldt, Junior Warden;
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
\V. J. Sanborn, Inspector & Past Master;
L. V. Y oungworth, Past Master.

.\Iokelumne Hill .... i'fo. 298 ....Clarencc A. Berry, l\Iastcr & Past ::\r'aster.
Liberty

Redlands ............... No. 300.... J. A. Stone, Representative & Past l\Iaster.

South Gate ........... No. 320....Gtiy H. Casler, Master;
R. W. E. Cole, Past :\faster;
R. E. Dill, Inspector & Past .\lastn.

Ontario ................. No. 301.. .. William J. Campbell, Master.

Alisa!

Porterville ........... No. 303 ... Charles C. Farnsworth, Master;
A. R. Laidlaw, Past Master;
F. W. Davis, Representative & Past i\faster.

Alhambra

Azusa .................... No. 305 ... Leland S. Poage, .\faster.

\Vhitticr .

/.shlar

......... No. 306 ... Charles E. Mead, Master;
]. B. Hanna, Past Master;
J. Macdougall, Past Master;
L. \V. Rucker, Past l\f aster.

465

............. No. 321.. ..John C. Stannard, Master;
W. J. Dakin, Past l\Iastcr.

j

..... X o. 322 .... Erncst E. Ford, l\Iaster;
J. K Hall, Past J\fastcr.

..No. 323 .. _Edward P. Haskell, Master;
L. C. Sawin, Inspector & Past Master.

Corona ................... No. 324.... Don Gilbert Chapman, Master;
L. L. Test. Inspector & Past Master;
C. J. Willett, Past Master.

Santa l\Ionica ........ Xo. 307 ... Albert D. T-lawcs, :\laster.

Consuelo

.. No. 325 ....W. W. Carpenter, Jr., Sen. War. & Past ::\1.

:\I onrovia .............. "\: o. 308 .. Stewart H. Reynolds, :\faster.

N' ecdlcs .

............ No. 326 ....Frank B. Krallman, l\Iaster & Past l\Iaster.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

466

.. No. 327 .... \Villiam R. Shaw, Master;
C. H. Shaw, Inspector & Past Master.

Long Ileach

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Palo Alto .............. No. 346.... Harry N. Vandervoort, Junior \Varden .
McKinley

... :\ o. 328 ... Samuel G. Lindscly, ]\faster.

Redollllo .....

Vallee de France .. No. 329 .... Leon Eyraud, Master.
Pacilic Grove ........ No. 331. .. Edwin S. Johnston, Master;
R. Chivers, Past Master;
D. Il. Fifield, Past Master;
C. K. Johnston, Past Master;
C. K. Tuttle, Inspector & Past Master.
San Pedro

.... :\ o. 332 ...Charles C. Outcalf, Master;
Harry G. Weaver, Senior Warden.

.\lta

.... No. 333 ... J. D. :\Jurphey, Past ]\faster.

Cm·ina

...... :\ o. 334 .. T. F. Cris wold, Rep. & Past Master.

West Gate

........ No. 335 ... Dell A. Schweitzer, Master;
D. Cave, Inspector & Past Master.

Fruitvale

.... l'\ o. 336 ... Harry Bercovich, Master;
Henry C. Schwinn. Senior Warden;
Roddy C. Black, Junior Warden;
]. H. H elmstein, Past l\Iaster;
J. C. McEwen, Past Master;
F. 0. Schullerts, Past Master.

Carquincz

..... l'\o. 337 ...William C. Madden, ]\faster;
Chandler H. Smith, Senior Warden;
Peter Miller, Jr .. Junior Warden;
J. E. Hughes, Past Master;
G. Jones, Past Master.
... No. 338 ... Frank Farmer, l\Taster & Past :\faster;
G. :\fatthews, Past l\Iaster;
R. R. Smith, Past Master.

San Jacinto

Fullerton

......... l\o. 339 ....Clifton R. Allen, Master;
Charles S. Chapman. Senior \Varden.

Oxnard .................. No. 341 ... Albert Guedemann, Master.
San Fernando

... No. 343 ... David J. Gibbetl, l\Iaster.

Starr King ............ No. 344 ....Charles 0. Munson, l\Taster;
Charles Baer, Senior Warden;
Gustave M. Carroll, Junior Warden;
S. Deutsch. Past Master;
J. Goodman, Past Master;
l-L L. Simon, Past Master;
T. Smith. Past l\laster;
C. l\l. Wollenberg, Past ]\[aster.

467

............ No. 347 .. ~Edward L. Jones, l\Iaster;
Michael H. Carey, Junior \Varden;
\V. R Richmond, Past l\fastn;
\V. E. Rose, Past Master.

San lkrnanlino .... No. 348 ..c]osqih 1-f. \Vilson. :\faster;
H. F. Bledsoe, Past ..\laster.
Spquuia ·---··-- ........ :\o. 349 .. Edwin M. Fant, :\Iaster;
James B. \Vood, Senior \Varden;
Charles C. Young, Junior \\'arclcn;
S. Brown, Past :\faster;
]. C. Cole, Past ..\faster;
F. D. Dolbier, Past :\faster;
]. \V. Gwilt, Past l\Iaster;
E. F. Hughes, Past l\Iaster;
C. Husband. Past :\faster.
Palestine

.... No. 351.. ..Frank A. Hamilton, Master;
\V. F. Haas, Past l\Iastcr.

Sunset .

.~o. 352 ...Chris!ian '\'.Bank, :\faster;

S. E. Burke, Inspector & Past :\faster;
D. M. Sutherland, Past M astn.
Pinole

.No: 353 ... Henry ..\IcCullough, ..\I aster;
Frederick A. Sill, Junior \Vankn.

Presidio ............... No. 354 ....Jolm B. Wuersching, :\[aster;
John E. Butterfield, Senior \l\T;mlcn ·
John H. \Veil man, Junior vVarden; ,
J. B. Glennie, Past l\laster;
H. Locks, Past :\I aster;
VI. A. Sherman, Inspector & Past ]\laster;
A. E. Sclmhmann, Past J\Iastcr;
F. G. vVatson, Past Master;
\'\!. ]. W eitzenberg, Past ]\faster.
llollywoocl

.......... No. 355 ....~ cl son E. \'V oodward, J\f aster;
Robert R. Rankin, Junior \Varden.

:\I ill Valley

.......... No. 356....Thornas S. \\Tatters, Junior Warden;
A. Coffin, Past l\laster;
C. Folger, Past Master;
T. T. Crean'S, Past Master;
K. J. C. Seymour, Past l\Iast<>r.

Duena Park ............ ~ o. 357 ....Chas. L. l\IcCombcr, :\laster & Past J\Iaster

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNU.

Golden State ........ :\ o. 358 ....Charles E. Gockley, l\Iastcr;
J. H. Bean, I nspcctor & Past l\Iastcr;
B. F. Kicrulff, Jr., Past :\faster.
Loyalton

... :\o. 359 .... \Valter H. Duncan, Senior \Varden.

San Francisco ____ :\ o. 360 ...George R. Bell, !\faster;
Victor E. Perry, Senior Warden;
. \lfred C. Skaifc. J nnior \Varden;
11. S. Johnson, Past l\f aster;
1-1. D. Lm·eland, Past :\laster;
]. C. Perry, Past !\faster;
. \. S. Y onng·, Past !\faster.
Fort Bragg ............ :--Jo. 361.. ...-\lfrcd A. Lord, !\laster.
................ :\o. 362 ....C. H. Whitman, Rep. & Past :\faster.

Charity
Berkeley

.... Ko. 363 .... J-lans P. Kelson, !\laster;
Robert P. Arnold, Senior \Varden;
Edgar R. :\ash, Junior \Varden.
T. ]. l\f orrison. Past :\faster;
I l. 8. Phillips, Past !\Jaster.

OJi,·ct ...................... :\ o. 364 .... Rcrtram L. Reynolds, Senior \Va rckn.
\\'illib .................. So. 365 ....James E. Daniels, !\Jaster;
J cremiah ]. Wilson, Past ?-. I aster.
Las Palmas .......... :\o. 366 ....Clarcncc N. Williams, !\laster.
South Pasadena .... !\ o. 367 ....floyd R. James, Master;
1:-l. \V. l\Iasac, Past l\Iastcr.

"C nity ................... .:'.\ o. 368 .... Ernest ]. l\Iorgan, !\faster.
Ocean Park ....... :\o. 369 ... Chas. H. Ritchie, !\faster & Past l\fastc·r;
C. S. Thatcher, Rep. & Past l\Jaster.
Amity

................. :\To. 370 ... Rudolph F. Lange, Master;
\Villiam B. Curtis, Junior \!Varden;
R. Cain, Past !\faster;
\V. E. vVood, Past !\faster.

Oceanic

...... :\o. 371 ... Jas. F. Fenwick, Rep. & Past ?-.faster.

Gardena

...... :\ o. 372 ...Thomas C. Pitman, !\Taster.

Veteran ................ So. 373 .... Pcrry L. ~all~s, Master.
Jewel

___________ ........ :\o. 374 ... Leo Bruck, !\faster & Past !\Jaster;
Thomas F. Hearn, Senior \Varden;
]. .·\. Snell, Past :\laster.

469

Richmond ............. No. 375 ... Angus !If acKillop. l\I aster;
Joshua J. Harcorn, Senior \Varden;
Char ks F. \\T erncr, J nnior \Varden;
\V. E. 11idwcll, Past l\laster;
D. B. Crane, Inspector & Past l\Iaster;
E. L. Fischer, Past Master.
.\rtesia ................... No. 377 .... Horace H. Rockwell, Senior \Varden;
\IV. Donnelly, Past !\faster.
:\Iizpah

....... No. 378 ... Holcombe R. l\lacLafferty, :\faster;
f-I. ,\_ Fulsom, Past !\laster .

Fillmore .................. No. 379 ... Thomas F. \Vilcman, :\laster.
Huntington Beach i\'o~ 380 ... A. \V. Griffith, Past :\faster;
S . .-\. l\Ioorc, Reprcsentati\·e.
Oceanside ............. No. 381...J. F. Martin, Representative & Past :\I aster.
Highland Park ..... Xo. 382.... Rollin H. i\Iorse. l\Iaster;
F. E. Vincent, Past !\faster.
Orosi

......... No. 383 .... \Valter Oxford, !\laster.

El Centro .............. !\' o. 384 .. Philip D. Swing, Master;
.\f. S. Cook, Past :\laster;
]. l\f. Eshleman, Past :\faster;
]. S. Ross, Inspector & Past :\laster.
Dinuba .................... :\ o. 385 ... Ambrose N. Sharer. l\faster;
G. l\I. Dopkins, Past !\faster;
]. D. Pillslmry, Past !\faster.
Coalinga ............... No. 387 .... Joseph B. vVright, Senior Warden;
W. H. Boyce, Past Master.
Parnassus ............. :\ o. 388 ....Thomas J. Green, l\I aster;
Henry L. Todd, Senior \Vanlcn;
Thomas A. Cavanagh, Junior Warden;
W. W. Allen, Jr., Past l\f aster;
W. A. Cree, Past :\Jaster;
E. F. Dietrick, Past l\f aster;
H. D. Saville, Past Master;
F. C. Sunder, Past Master .
Palos Verdes ....... No. 389 .... Fred W. McCullah, Master.
Imperial

............... No. 390 .... Ervin D. Stuart, Senior \Varden.

East Belt ............... No. 391...Wm. S. Beeman, Sen. \!Var. & Past :\faster.
West Lake

..... No. 392.. -Charles \V. Yerxa, Master.

Balder

GRA~D LODGl~

PROCEEDINGS 01'' THE

471)

Honolulu .

.................. No. 393 ....Frans 0. Sjogren. l\fastcr;
karl F. Strarnlhcrg·, Senior \Varden;
Nels S. Stohl, Junior \Vankn;
C. G. Johnson, Past ::\faster.

l"ni,·crsity

........ No. 394.... Frc<lcric C. Comfort, ]\faster;
J. C. Netz, Past Master.

Tmlock

.... No. 395 .... Alex Samuels, Reprcsentatin:.

Calexico

No. 399...,Walter F. Lillick, Junior \Vardcn.

Fraternity

Hurli11ga111"

'

400.... William F. Stapff, Master;
Luther E. Penniman, Junior \Varden;
L. A. l\furch, Past Master;
C. Jellinek, Past :\faster.

Hay View

... No. 401.. ..Fred W. \'.'etmorc, Master;
Harry E. Jarman, Senior \Varden;
Percival L. D. Rankin, Junior W~nkn:
A. F. Lovsic, Past J\J aster;
T. R.
Past :\laster.

...... :\o. 402 ... Clarence J. Park, Senior \\';mk11:
C. E. Nice, Past J\laster.
:\ o. 403 .... :\tigustin A. Gifford, ]\faster;
Robert G. ,\rlctt, Senior \\';inkn:
John ;\l. l fcnckcn. Junior \V:;nlen;
F. \\'. LeBallister. R,·p. & Past ;\laster:
E. V.
Past .\ia;;tcr.

Yerl>a flm·11;i

(;Jrndora
.\Ioneta .
Burhank ......

Sierra ::\l aclre

L

.. ...... No. 406 .. Edward A. Fischer, :\laster.
'.\o. 407 ..Thomas A. Bougher. Senior \V:mlc-n:
John H . .\lallery. Junior \Varden.
No. 408 ... Robert II. ..\fackcrras, :\Taster;
I<. .\. Kolze. !'a st .\I a,.;tcr.

.............. :No. 412 .... Ch~rles F. Turner, Junior \Varden.

Arlington .............. No. 414 ... Artlmr T. Jackson, .l\lastcr.
l f. F. Hughes, Sen. \Var. & Past ;\faster;
C. P. Lyndall, Past :\laster.
Siker Trowel .... :No. 415 ... Lonis D. I lammon, .\laster;
R \V. Ilurns, Past :\laster.
Lindsay

.......... No. 416 ... R. ). Reed, :\Jaster.

Elysian

..Ko. 418.... William T . .l\k:Ncely, :\laster;
F. G. F'inlayson, Past l\faster.

C'plan<l .................... No. 419... Earnest C. .:.Iehl, ..\faster;
F. C. Froehdc, Past .\faster.
Kerman ................. :'\ o. 420.... L. G. Sandell, Representati \'C & Past :\faster .
Inglewood .....

..No. 421.. .. John ,\crick, Master.

Eagle Rock ............ Xo. 422.... John .'.IL

Master.

York.

...... Ko. 423 .... Lcstcr J. Vanderbeek, l\Iastcr.

Exeter

........ No. 424 ... Francis \V. ?dixtcr, .:.r:i,tcr & Past Master.

I-Ioltvilk

........ No.

..... No. 404 .L. A. Warren, Rcprc.'\cntatiyc.
........... No. 405 ...Claud H. Camphell. l\Iaster.

Lamc:'a

....... :Yo. 411.. .\Vm. A. Guthridge, .\Ia::tcr & Past :\faster.

\Vaucoba ................ No. 413 ... Jon:ithan \V. l\fc.\fmray. l\lastcr & Past l\L

.... Nn. 398.... :\lfred J. Smith, :\faster & Past :\faster.

Fowkr

.... No. 409 .... Jamc,; F. Fc'11wick. ln.sper!ur & Past i\!astcr.

Perris

..... .:\ o. 397 .... Ll'ster L. Easterly, Master.

Hising Light

471

Charter Rock ..... :\o. 410.. Philip Kick ks, I\[aster;
Ralph \V. ~Tycrs, Srnior \\'ankn;
William ,\. Loni'i, Junior \Varden;
F. S. Beckett. Past :\laster;
W. E. Rose, Past l\Iastcr;
::\!. A. Plumb, Past :\Tasler;
/\. :\I. Poulsc11, Past ..\Taster;
E. S. Valc11tinc, Past Master.

........ No. 396.... Charles B. Creeley, :\faster;
\Vilbcrt S. Condon, Senior \Varden;
Isaac C. Bateman, Junior \Varden;
E. N. Clintsman, Past i\faster;
P. C. \Vindham, Past l\lastcr.

:\pollo

OF CALIFOHNL\.

W. Griffin, .:.raster;
Leo. R. ::\fanning, Senior \Varden.

Midway .................. No. 426.... Lewis E. Stephens, Senior \Varden .
Chino Valley ........ Xo. 427 .... Hiram C. Shafer, .\laster.
San Dimas ........... No. 428 .... Samucl J. l\IcD\)nald, Senior \Varden.
Pittsburg

Mc Cloud

.............. No. 429 .... Jolm Lowes, .\faster.
.......... :No. 430 ..-Benjamin A Purcell, :\faster;
J. C. \Vildcr, Past ]\faster.

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA

l'HuCJ..:J..:UINUS OF 'l'l!J..:

472

473

\

. :\o. 431 .. Luke J. C]a,·iml\·ich. :\laster;
Richard E. Slattery, Senior \Vankn;
F. ]. Cardner, Junior \Varel en;
11. .\. Sti\"er, Past :\laster.

.\lpha

Roseville ......

.... :\o. 432.... J. Scott. Reprcscntati,·c & Past :\[aster.

llammonton

.... :\n. 433 ... D;l\"icl C. :\fcDonald, :\[aster.

Fairmount

... :\o. 435 ... Drnman S. \Vagstaff, .'\faster;
\Villiam 0. Pnnly, Senior \Varden;
Ccorgc E. Ralph, Junior \Vanlcn;
J. D. Ralph, Past :\[aster.

Claremont

.......... :\o. 436 ... Edw. L. Dreher, .'\faster & Past :\[aster;
\Villiam L. Smith, Senior \\'arckn.

Lancaster .............. ~ o. 437 ... Hugh Petric, :\Taster.
Germania

.. :\o. 438 ... Frederick Walter, Jr., l\[astcr.

Tyrian .

............. :\0. 439 ...Thcoclore /'.. :\fc:\[nrray, :\Taster.

Standard

.. :\n. 440 ... Lron LeR. Cummow, :\[aster;
Edward :\f. Jones, Senior \Varden;
Edwin L. 11 iteman, Junior \Varden;
C. H. \Vcllington, Past ]\faster.

Coronado

... :\o. 441 ... ,\rtlmr .\. l\fathewson, l\Iaster.

nlackmcr

.............. :\0. 442 ... l Tcrbcrt H. He;1th, Scnior \Varden;
Ernest L. l\[ cKie, Junior \\';mkn.

Schofield

.... Ko. 443 ... James F. Fenwick, RcprescntatiH'.

Carpinteria

.......... :\o. 444 ... Guy S. Bliss, ]\faster & Past :\faster.

Wilshire

........... .Ko. 445 ... Elmer LeRoy Biggs, ]\[aster;
\V. H. Fischer, Past :\faster.

La Puente .............. :\0. 446 ... Josiah \V. Hudson, :Master & Past l\fastcr:
George E. Cross. Senior \Varden.
Torrance

.. :\o. 447 ... Roy 0. Denison, .:.raster & Past Master.

:\ft. Diahlo ........... :\ o. 448 ... Leon L. Martin, Master & Past .:.raster;
:\[ichaclis Keustaedter, Senior Warden;
Charles \V. Thissell, Junior \Varden.
Park
Van :\uys

..... No. 449 ... Erastus n. Power, .:.raster & Past ::\fa:;ter;
Franklin K. Barthel, Senior \Varden.
.......... No. 450 ... Joseph A. Dailey, ]\faster & Past ]\faster.

::\fontelwllo ........... :\o. 451 ... James L. [looper, :\faster & Past Master.

.. i\" o. 452 .... Carlcton E. Durrell, :\laster;
Edward J. \Nheelcr, Junior V11ardc11;
.\. \\'. Viney, Past :\[aster.

San Pasqual

Bethlehem ................... U.D .....John L. ::\Ic:\ali, Master;
Charks K. 1-larpcr. Seni"r \Varden;
,\. E. Graupncr, Junior \Varden.
Crocker

.............. U.D .....R. F. Chicott, :\faster;
A :\le?\. ::\fcKeown, Srnior \Varden;
Thus. l\Iadgwick, J nnior \Varden.

]{i,·erhank ...

.... U.D .....J. A. Brackett, Senior \Vanlcn.

Colden \Vest

.... U.D .....J. D. ::\IcAJpin, :\laster.
George Robert Brockmann, Senior \\'ardcn;
Adolph L. \V. Zellmer, Junior \Varden.

Kennett ...................... U.D .....Ccphas Lewis Gregg, :\I aster;
E. C. Thompson, Junior \Varden .
Ramona ....

.... U.D ....\Valtcr J. Johnson, ::\laster.

Henry S. Orme.

.... U.D .....Jamcs Harry ,\mlrews, l\Iaster.

The report was adopted as presented.

".\::\fE.'\D::\IE.'\T TO CO.'\SlTlTTIO.'\.

The Grand ::\[aster offered the following proposed
amendment to the Constitution:
Rcsoh·cd, That section 135 of the Constitution he amended to read
as follows:
Sec. 135. The J\faskr, \Vardcns, Treasurer and Secretary of each
Lodge shall he electell annually, by ballot, at the stated meeting next
preceding the anninrsary of ·st. John the Evangelist; and a majority
of the votes cast shall be necessary to elect. They shall he installed
as soon as practicable therea ftcr, anll shall hold their respccti\·c offices
until their successors shall han becn duly elected and installed. Installations may be either public or private.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, and Past
Grand ~laster Patton for the committee reported back verbally, recommending the resolution, and it was adopted by
tmanimous vote.

474

PROCEEDINGS O:F THE
GilAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

<ilL\?\D LODGE OF FRANCE.
The Committee on
full owing:

Jurispru<lence also presented the

To the M ... TV .•. Graud Lodge of California:
The matter of the recognition of the new Xational Crand Lodge
() f r:rance, and a circular issued from that body, h;n·e been he fore
the committee. The matters involved in this request arc of a very
serious import and require careful consideration. An examination of
the proceedings of the varions Grand Lodges discloses that all of
them are moving very slowly because of the peculiar conditions existing in "'Iasonry in
and because the war prevailing in Europe
renders it impossible to secure additional data. 'vVc therefore recommend that this matter be referred to our successors.

The report was adopted.

PROPOSED REl\lOVAL TO LOS A?\GELES.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported as follows:
To tile M.'.

This being the hour for the consideration of the rep\•rt
of the Trustees of the .\la sonic l lome!', un motion the report was apprm·e(l and adopted as prescntc(l.
Past Grand :\faster .\fotley TT. Flint. Chairman of the
Corl'lmittee on Endowment. reported as follows:
REPORT OF E\'DO\\'.\l E.:\T CCL\T.\TITTEF.
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of
Your Endowment Committee', l\Tasonic Homes of California, appointC'd by th(' Grand Master at the close of the last Grand Lodp:e, begs
to report that this very important matter has received our mo.'l
thoughtful and careful consideration. and we hclic1·c tlrnt our plans, if
carried into effect as outlined, will prodnce. before many ):Cars, most
satisfactory results.
The Endowment Fund, on July 31, 1914. as reported to the r.rnnd
by the Grand Treasurer. was as follows:
Cash on
981.00
Investment, municipal and pllhlic utility bonds ............................. 37,237.SO

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The Grand 1\fastcr proposes and rcconm1cnds that section 11 of
the Constitution he amended to the following intent: Strike out the
qualifying clause added in 1911 and insert in lieu thereof the following:
"Provided. however, that, commencing with the year A. L. 5916,
and every third year thereafter. the Annual Communications shall be
held in the city of Los Angeles."
The proposed amendment is in proper form, and, if adopted, will
c•ccomplish its pnrposc. The matter is purely one of policy to be determined by this Grand Lodgl' in its wisdom, and \VC report it back
without recomnwmlation.
CHAS.

475

L. PATTON,

WM. S. WELLS,
DANA REID \VF.LLER,

]. D. 1\IlmPHEY,
Committee.

On motion of Past Grand l\laster Henderson the matter
was referred to the Finance Committee for the purpose of
ascertaining what if any additional tax would be necessary
in case the amendment should be adopted.

Total
The Endowment Fund, as of <late July 31, 1915, one year later,
reported by the Grand Treasurer, is as follows :
Secnrities

••-••••._"".,•••••••••••H• •••+•••••••••••••'<••• ••••••••.,•••••••

Cash on

••••$39,237.50

2, 143.70

Total .......................................................................................... ..... $41,381.20
This fund is from hrcthren who,, from time to ti., remember 11s
in their wills, and also from many small subscription~ received during
the past year. The fnnd ne1·ci· has heen encroached upon. the income
being reinvested as rapidly as received.
The problem confronting your Committee, in connection with the
Endowment Fund work, was how to reach all of the ::\fasons in good
standing, as borne on the rosters of our Subordinate Lodges. This
could not be accomplished by official notices to the various secretaries.
to he read at stated and special meetings, for the reason that hut a
small proportion of our members attend Lodge regular!v. Particubrlv
is this trnc of thm'e who, ii they understood the sitn<~tion, would b~
glad to contribute generously to the Emlowment Fund .

...

GRAND LODGE Ol!' CALlFOH;:o.;lA

PUOCJS!li!DINGS OF THE!

47\i

i\ilc'r matnre ddihcration, it w;l'; dC'cidcd to prepare a circnb r
kiter, setting forth tlw great nee-cl for the fnnd. arnl ha\'c a ;;1tflicicm
m11nher of these printecl so that every mcrnl.H:r of the California Jttrisdiction woulcl receive a copy.
The circular letter was duly prepared and presented to the l\f.'. vV.'.
Grand J\faster, approved by him, and tr;msmitted to the Grand Secretary, who caused same to be printed. and on l\farch 15, last, forwarded
in sufficient qnantities to all secretaries, with the following endorsement:

''It is the desire and request of the Grand l\laster that one copy
of this cirrnlar he forwarded hy yon, liy mail or otherwise. to each
member."
This circular letter created considerable interest. and a large amount
of correspondence followed. Some twenty members of the fraternity
sent small subscriptions, which were very thankfully receivc'd and
forwardccl to the Grand Treasurer. Others made inquiries concerning
the preparation of their wills, while others wrote regarding the taking
out oi a life insurance policy, naming the Endowment Fund as beneficiary. Complaints have been rcccivc:cl that secretaries failed to follow
the reqnest of the Grand ]\faster, and did not forward a copy of the
!t'tter to each memher. As a resnlt, a large
of our membership have not recci\·cd the first letter prepared hy this Committee.
RcliE>ving that the Endowment Fund can he raisC'cl only hy a continuous and energetic campaign of C'clncation, your Committee prepared a
second circular letter, <lated September 12, 1915, by and with the
approval of the Gr::md ]\faster. and same was forwarckd in sufficient
quantities to each Suhorclinate Lodge, emlorscd hy Olli' erand Secretary
a:; follows:
"It is the order of the Grand Master that yon cause one copy of
this circnlar to be cklivcrcd, by mail or otherwise, to each member of
your Lodge."
Both of these circular letters are a part of this report, and if
same ha \'C not he en received and read, it is requested that you nm\'
<lo so, as the arguments set forth appear to your Committee sufficient
to justify the earnest, active co-operation of e\·cry member of our
Grand Jurisdiction.
Grand Secretary \Vhichcr advises that, in rmmd numbers, there
are 55,400 members on onr rolls. Please consider that this means that
if each J\1as011 in his will would rcmcmhcr the Endowment Fund to
the extent of
ct\'Crage of $100.00 per l11Clllhcf, Or if the entire
membership would take out life insurance policies in favor of the
Endowment Fnnd averaging $100.00 prr member, the rcsnlt would in
time he an Enclowmcnt Fund of $5,540.000.00, a sum the income of
which wonk! support onr Ilonws. thongh four or five times as large
as at present, as well as provide funds for necessary new buildings.

an

·~----------------------

477

Last, hut by far the most impurtaut co11sidcration, this plan would
diminatc the pt'r
tax now rcqnircd.
Your Committee thcrdorc rc:commcnds that the campaign of
education for the Endowment Ilfasonic Homes of California h~ continued; that the co-operation of all attorneys, members of the l\Iasouic
fr'.1t;rnity, b,· seen red; that sai<l attorneys he requested, when preparing
wills, to urge, so far as is possible, that the Endowment Fund he
remembered: a1~d. last. lmt not least, that if a1w brother desires lo
assist this splendid work. hut is unable to make ei-ther a cash donation
or to remember the l\Iasonic H omcs in his will. he be urged to take
out an insnrance policy of $100.00 or more in favor of the Masonic
Homes of California. The anmwl prcminm on a policy io~snch amount
would not he a severe tax on any onC'. and with acti1·e co-operation
the resnlts wonlcl be surprisingly gratifying.
Fraternally suhmittcd,
ENnO\vME::n Co;,1 MlTTEJ'. :\L\soK1c H<nn!s oF C.\LlFORNLI,

By l\IoTLEY H. FLrnT, Chairman, Los Angcks,
S.1~1UEL E. Bt'RKE, Los c\ngclcs.
].\MES H. l\L\cL.1FFF.r<TY. Oakland.

Cr:oRCE l\f. PF.HTNE. San Francisco.
TiJ''.'IJ .\ :1r1 N' n. TvTTLE. Davis.
Cn.\HLES \V. ::\cTTJNG, Etna :\Tills,
F1L\NK K. TowNE, Redwood Cti1·.
JonN L. :\l1TCHELL, Selma.
THF.o. J. ,\f ILLIT\EN, Sacramento.
are the tcxLs of the circular letters referred to ahO\'C:
:\farch 15. 1915.

M v DEAR BROTHER:\Ve are desirons of submitting for your serious consideration the
question of raising an Endowment Fund, the income of which will be
used for the maintenance of the Masonic Homes of California.
\Ve ha1·c in C:ilifornia two Masonic Homes, one in Dccoto, Alameda
County. where aged brethren and their wfrcs or widows arc provided
for, and the other at San (~ahricl, Los c\ngelcs County, which is the
Home for orphans of onr members.
~

For the support of thei'c Homes there is an annual per capita tax

01

$1.00 on all members of our Jurisdiction, and in addition there is

an additional annual per capita tax of fifty cents, provided two vears
ago by con«titutional amendment. the a11101111t rccein·d bv said adclit-ional
per capita tax being 11scd for additions ancl replacements at the Hnmc,
the amounts already colkctcd ha,·ing hcrn expended for proper water
supply, pnrnping stations. laundry, refrigerating plant, etc., together

478

l'ltUCEh:lJlNGt-l OF

THJ~

with an cntirdy new concrete dormitory building-to ;,npply pn:ssing
llccds-n"w i11 the process of erection.
The property at San Gabrid, being all of wooden construction a11d
many years old. must soon he replaced liy a fireproof building for the
proper protection of our orphans.
~
1'hc prc,;<:nt tax 11po11 the Fraternity, or more particularly upon the
Lndges-as the per capita taxes arc paid through the Lodges-is quite
a serious lmrdcn aml it is very much desired that the Endowment
Fund he raised of :<uffici,•nt size, the incoinc of which will be ample
to take care of all expenses incident to our "'.\fasonic Homes.
Thi;; 1nntld be very much apprcciattcl by the Lodges and would
rclie1·c the necessity of increasing the annnal dues, consequently th('
question of the Endowment Fund should receive the hearty approval
and warm support of all of our members.
Variotls brethren have from time to time remembered us in their
wills. and our endowment fond as of date January 1, 1915, is as follows:
Tutal Endowment Fund, $39,152.93. It consists of municipal and public
utility honcls amounting to $38.237.50 and cash $915.43.
This fund hns never been encroached upon, the income heingreinn·stcd as rapidly as rccefred. Furthermore, it is not the intention
to use the income from the Endowment Fund until the principal is
materially increased.
This letter is sent out to <Cach member of the Fratcrnitv within
om Jurisdiction, not for the pnrposc of asking for cash do1~ations­
although they \voul<l be very thankfully rcceived-lrnt more to urge
upon our brethren that at the time of preparing their wills, if they
desire to remember worthy institutions-particularly Masonic Homes
which are doing so much for mankind-they include therein a bequest
for such an amonnt as they feel they can afford.
It is recommended that such bequests be made to "The Masonic
ITnmes of California," it being the title agreed upon in our articles
of incorporation now being prepared. Please understand that we would
very much appn°ciatc cash donaticns or real estate; but the principal
purpose is to call to the attention of our brethren the great necessity
of creating a large Endowment Fund, which can be accomplished by
our brethren in rcmcmhering "The Masonic Homes of California'' in
their wills.
P. S.-There are among our m1111her many who would he glad to
make larger <lonatinns to the Endowment Fund than their present
mc·ans will permit. The desire may be gratifiecl through the medium
nf life ins11r:111ce a! cnmparatin:l;: ,;mall expense•. 1'he annnal paymrnt
d a l·cn:1in pc•·cc·tll:i;.;c on any sum will insure its receipt hy the fund
at the c111l of a stated pcrio<l or upon the death of the hcncfactor.
Particulars of thi,; plan will be furnished to any interested person.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORh'IA

479

The system of endowment through life insurance has been practiced
ior many years. It has enabled the erection of churches and other
buildings for which the necessary means could not otherwise have been
procured. l t has enriched colleges and rendered charitable institutions
self-sustaining. \Ve believe that it can be effectively employed to the
end of placing the :\fasonic Homes of California in a position of
independence and pcrpctnating their beneficence.

Septemher 12, 1915.

711 Y DI1.\R B1wTHER : Cuder elate of "'.\larch 15th, last, the above named Committee h1·
and with the advice and consent of l\f.'. vV.'. Benjamin F. Bleclso~.
Crand ::Waster, caused to he placed in the hands of every member of
om Jurisdiction a circular letter, explaining in brief the necessit'
for raising an Endowment Fund of such proportions that the incom~
thereof would be sufficient, without a direct tax each year upon onr
Lodges, for the support of the Ma sonic Hom es.
Undoubtedly, this need is accentuated at the present time, for on
July 31, all Lodges make their annual returns to the Grand Secretarl'.
and the amounts thus paid arc, without question, quite a hnrden io
each Lodge, which mnst share the responsihilit·y not only of maintaining
the Grand Lodge, but must pay, aL•o, an annual per capita tax of $1.00
for the support of the Masonic Home ;iml an additional per capita
tax of SO cents for the erection of Ii reproof buildings at Decato, Alameda
County, where the Old People's Home is located. and at San Gabriel.
Los Angeles County, the location of the Orphans' Home.
As ;i
result of this method of taxation, the average ~Iason docs not thoroughly
understand how this annual per capita tax is paid.
The dues paid by mcmhcrs oi onr Lodges amount to $6.00, $9.00
or $12 or more per year. Of this snm $2.40 is forwarded to our Grand
Secretary, and apportioned as follows: Ninety cents for maintenance
of Grand Lodge, $1.00 for the suppnrt of Masonic Home, and 50 cents
for erection of nc\v buildings.
Ottr Grand Lodge has been establisher! for sixty-five years, and
consequently many of our members arc growing old. Naturally, therefore, the demands upon the Old People's Home are increasina materialk
each year, anrl it is absolutely essential tbat we erect a "large, nc\~·
fireproof building to take care of the needs of the members of the
various Lodges. who arc seeking admittance to the Home.
At San Cahrid, where the Orphan,;' l lomc is situated, the Citv of
PasadC'na two years ago diverted it,_; storm waters, therehv cutti1;g a
very wide path through onr holdings there, and cndan~gering <otir
property and buildings to such an extent that it is absolutely necessary

I

I

481

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODG!E OF CALIFORNIA

to seek new quarters. Largely improved land holdings have been
secured, and it is positively essential that fireproof buildings be erected
immediately for the protection and care of our orphans.

the situation, so that it can he thoroughly understood, and that hdorl!
many years the Endowment fund we so sadly need will be an accomplished fact, and the tax upon our Lodges materially reduced.

480

You will appreciate, of course, that a tax of $2.40 on each .'.\Iason
in California is not felt by each indi,·idual member of the Order, as
the money is paid by 'the Lodges themselves. This tax, however,
sufficiently depletes the treasury of each Lodge to make it necessary
that something be done to materially reduce the great burden of taxation now borne by our constituent Lodges. The question is, How can
this he accomplished?
\V c cannot reduce the expense of the Grand Lodge, and the annual
per capita tax of 50 cents for the erection of buildings will be necessary
for a few years, or until such time as we have fully complied with the
requirements of the Grand Lodge, in building proper structures for the
protection of our charges.
\Vhereforc. tl1c most feasible plan for taking care of the annual
fund, and e\·cry .'.\[ason in California can help this fund. This can be
accomplished. not l1y the immediate contribution of cash, though that
would be much appreciatcrl, hut by the preparation of your will, remembering the l\Iasonic Hom cs of California with such amount as you can
afford, having consideration. of course, for your own family, also.
Every man. and particularly C\'Cry Mason, should prepare his will
so that if accident or illness overtake him proper disposition can be
made of his property. in accordance with his own desires. It is
therefore hoped that if our members have drawn their wills, or may
do so in the immediate future, some provision will be made, no matter
how small the bequest may be. for the :MASONIC HOMES OF
CALIFORNIA. which 1s the corporate title of our great .'.\Iasonic
charity.
Those who desire, can, by the payment of a small annual charge,
take out an insurance policy, making the Masonic Homes of California
the beneficiary. This Committee has no interest in life insurance
companies or in the life insurance business, and any member of our
Fraternity who is interested in the issuance of an insurance policy for
t!1e benefit of the :\Iasonic Homes, may, through his life insurance agent,
ascertain how such a policy, which would at his death be placed to the
credit of the Endowment Fund, can be issued.
There is no greater charity in California than the Masonic Homes,
and there are no more broad-minded citizens of our State than are
the .'.\[asons; hut to interest our brethren, and to have them understand
the necessity of reducing· the taxes upon Lodges, by the building up
of an Endowment Furn! income which will be ample for the support of
the ;\lasonic Homes, is a very serious problem. It is, therefore, the
intention "f this Committee to write, at intervals, a brief resume of

REPORT OF CCDDIITTEE 0:-\ GRIE\-A:\'CES.
The Committee on Grievances reported as follows:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Appeals and (~riC\'llllCC'S, to whom was referred
the following trial records, to wit :
l\o. 152-Honolulu l\o. 409;
Xo. 153-San Diego Xo. 35;
~o. 160-South Gate l\o. 320;
Xo. 165-Wcst Lake Xo. 392;
Xo. 168-Bakersficlcl Ko. 224;
Xo. 169 and 170-Carquincz ?\o. 337:
::\ 0. 171-~Iidway No. 426;
l\o. 172-Pentalpha No. 202;
No. 173-Humboldt No. 79;
No. 174-Ashlar X o. 306;
No. 176--Hollcnbeck Xo. 319;
~o. 177-Eurcka No. 16;
No. 178-Evcrgrecn No. 259;
?\o. 181-Porterville Ko. 303;
No. 182-Hawaii No. 21;
Xo. 183-Burlingame Xo. 400;
Xo. 185-La Parfaite Union ]\ 0. 17;
No. 186--Laurel Xo. 245;
l\o. 187-South Gate No. 320;
respectfully reports that after careful examination it finds that in
each of the cases referred to there was at least a substantial compliance
with the Constitution and Regt1lations; that in those cases where there
was a failure to comply strictly with the law and with the procedure
governing trials, the error in no way prejudiced the rights of the
accused.
In none of the cases was any appeal taken and in every instance
substantial justice has been done. The committee therefore offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Rcsol«cd, That the verdict and decision in each of the cases herein
referred to, and the action of the Lodge thereon, be and the same
hereby are approved and confirmed.
CHAS. ALBERT AnA~IS,
GEORGE L. }ONES,
WALTER F. HAAS.
Committee.
Report adopte(l.

4 ~2

l'llOCl'~EDlKGS

01'' THIC

'in Iii!' .1/.'. /F.'. Cm11d l,odgc of Ca!i(onziu:
Your CommitteL' 011 Appeals and Grinancc•s. to whom was rderrcd
Trial Rcc,,nJ ::\o. 1?10. respcctiully reports as follows:

G.RAND LODGE OF CALIFO.RNIA

483

The first specillc:ttion. 1n· nll'st cm1cerle, cl1argcs 110 i\lasnnic offense:
and we assume that the offense with which it was intended to charge
the accused w;,5 not of h:l\·ing heen emn icted and sentenced, hut of
having committed the crime of imirt!er.

The rccorrl in this case is typical of a class which has increased
nnmhcr since the adoption of the amendment to the Constitntiou
rt'quiring charge·, to be hrought where there has been a conl'iction
in thl' State or Federal Courts of ;i crime invoking moral
and although '"'' :ire 11ot disposed to interfere with the judgment in
this
for the n·asons hereinafter gil·en, we deem it proper to call
attention of the Grand Ledge to the apparent misconception of the
dfrct of th<tt anicndmcnt and of the proper proceeding;; to be taken
thereunder.

The evidence introduced in support of the charge was a properly
authenticated copy of the judgment of the conviction in the State Court.
?\ o ballot was take11 upcin any of the specifications, but the accuser!
by a vote of six to two was found guilty on the charge of tllHHason:c
rnnduct and was expelled.

The la1\· pn)\·idcs that "in the event of a final judgment of con\'tction
it shall he the duty of tlte Junior \Varden
to
prd,T chargc,;
on account of the matters invoked in said con-

X otwitbstanding the ddects in the procednrc your committee
is not inclined to interfere with the Ycrdict and ;;;cnlt'ncc for the fo].
lnwing reasons:

m

The charge, it will be noted should he-not for
heen con\·ictcd hut on affo1111t of the matters inn>h•cd in the cottc·iction, i. c ..
for the offense commit!ed hy the accTsC'd. and of which he had heen
cnndctcd.
Upon the trial oi that charge the record of the conviction in the
State Court. if duly authenticated. may be properly introduced as
rrima facic eddence of t11c [lr<lOf of the charge. Then if the accused
desires to introduce e1·idcntc in his own behalf he may do
not\\·ithstanding the fact that he has been c01ffictcd in the State Court.
The Commis,i011 i;; then called upon to decide whether or not, in the
j11dgn1C'nt of the Commissioners, the accused is guilty of the offense
charged. If no testimony at all is introduced on behalf of the, <1ccnsed
the Commission of course has no discretion m the matter and must
find a verdict of "guilty."

If there is moi·e tha11 one specification to the charge a ballot must
he h;1d npon each specification; and in
it may 11c said that it is
presumed that each specification /1y itstlf charges a l\Tasonic offense.
In this c:1sc the accused was charged in three specifications as
follows:
that on or about the 15th day of July, 1914, he was
charged hy the District Attorney of the County oi - - - , State of
California. ll'ith the murder of one
; second, that between the
15th arnl 25th clays of February, 1915. he was tried hy a jury and
found guilty ,)f mnnh-1· in the second degn•e; third. that on or about
the IO!h day of :\farch, 1915. he was sentenced hy Hon.
Jmlgc
.,j the Supcri<ir Court <)f - - - County. Stale of California, to scf\'c
;1 !t'n11 oi twch·e year.; in the St:tle Pe11ilcntiary of California.

The accused was not able to appear, being confined in San Quentin,
as appears in the record, bnt wrote a lct!c'r stating that he had acted
m self ddcnsc and still hoped to get a new trial and be Yindicatctl.

The offense intended to he charged was that of having committctl
murder. The accused w:1s in no way misled liy the form in which the
charge was made. i\ properly autlwnti<'ated record of his co11victio11
in the State Court was presented to the Commissioners; that was
prima facic cvidrnce of the commission of the offrnse with which the
accused should have hcen charged; and from the record itself, unaided
hy any extraneous matters or statements, we ourselves might properlJ:
deduce the corn,.Jusion that the accused was g1·ilty of murder. \Ve
therefore offer the following resolution;

Resohicd, That the y0rdict and sentence of the Commission. and
the action of the Lodge, in the matter of Trial Re('(ird No. 180, he
and the same hereby arc affirmed.
CHAS. ALBISRT AD.\!.!~.
WALTI\R F. HAAS,

CE0RC1·: L. JoN1\s,

Report adopted.

Committee.

To the Jf.'. W.' .. Gro11d Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Ap1wals arnl Cricl'anccs, to \\·hom was referrrd
Trial Record No. 184, respectfully reports as follows:
This is another of the class of cases referred to in the report
on Trial Record No. 180. Here, howen2r, the <kfccts are more serious
and bring m; very close to the point beyond which we ought not properly go to sustain a jmlgment notwithstanding the desire, and the universal practice, at least in recent years, of this committee to disregard
defects in the record which do not result in a miscarriage of justice.
In this record there were four specillcations.
tmmasornc
conduct; second, that the Connty Attorney of---did charge---

GRAND LODGE OF CALIJ!'ORNIA

484
·I 1· (\l"fft'l"\" .t· t ~~-'· tl11·1-,J • tint
the J·nrv- tlnk. s\1·orn did lint! the
(
said----=-gi;ilty as clrnrged on the 26th tlay of :\pril, 1915: foul'th, that
- - - i s now sr•rving a scntcnc,• of from one• to fourteen years at the
State Pris1rn at---.
The onh· evidence introduced to snhstantiate the charge was an
; 1uthcnticatccl copy of the 1·erdict of the jury, which reads as foi1ows:
\\·it l

"\Ve. the jury, duly sworn ancl impaneled to try the ahm·e c.ntitlcd
cause. for our verdict say that we find the defendant----gmlty as
charged. ----Foreman." awl a letter from the Sec~etary ol a Lodge
in Idaho, who forwarded the copy of the verdict. statmg that the ~0111mitment went with the official who took the accused to the pemtcntlar.y,
and that he knew that the accused was then serving his sentence m
prison.
.
_
It will he not<.'d that in the tirst place a copy of a verdict ot the
jury is no! a rc(ord of the judgment of com•i,tio11. Furthermore the
nature of the crime' oi which the ddendant was found guilty 1;'.nvhcre
appears in this w·rdict. The verdict is "gnilty as chargecl.
The
offense charged would appear in the judgmc11t, hut that was not presented to the Commis>ioncrs, so that strictly speakmg t11e~·e was no
prooi even as to the third specification which was that the Jury found
the accnsed guilty of the charge of forgery.
Tf there were nothing in the record other than the evidence presented on hehali of the accuser, "·c wonld he compcllccl to rccommen:l
a ren•rsal. Jt appears, howe,·cr. that in answer to the charge and ~pec1tlcations. the accused wrote a letter which was before the Comm1ss~o11
in which, after acknowledging the receipt of the copy of the co1:1plai'.1L
he stated: "As for myself I do not care to offer even extcnuatmg circumstances, but T do wish to say this: l and I alone am the master
of mv own destiny and am bound tn suffer or hcnefit by my actions. T
<iclih~ratelv and after careful thought mack my choice. and am not
permitted ;me! cannot
reasons for my actions until the release from
th is i11stit11 ti on.''
your committee• is of the opinion that this is tantamount to a plea
of guilty, amt it is upon this pica and not upon the testimony sub~
mittccl, and upon the assumption that the accused has pleaded g:1'.lty
to the charge and specification that we approve the verdict and dec1s1011
and offer tht' following resolution:
Rcsol'l'cd. That the verdict and sentence of the Commission and
the action of the Lodge in the matter of Tri a 1 Record X o. 184 he and
the same hereby. arc affirmed.
CHAS. ALBlcRT ADA}.!S,
\NALT(R F. H,\AS,
G!!ORGt'.

:\cl opted.

L. JONF.S,
Committee.

485

To the JI.'. W.'. Gra11d Lodr.;,· of Califoruia:
Your Committee on Appeals and Grie\'ances, to whom \\'as rderrcd
Trial Record I\'o. 179, rcspt'ctfolly reports as follows:
.\gain we ba1·c the acct1scd charged not with the commission of
the offense, bnt of having been convicted.
There arc three specifications. First. that on or abollt the 16th da\'
of Jnly, 1914, he was charged by the District Attorney oi the Count;·
of---, State of California. with cheating and dcfrauding--...:...out oi
mo;1ey and property; second, that on or abont the 19th day of :\larch,
1915. he was tried hy a jury and found guilty as charged; third, that
on or abont the 20th day of :'\larch, 1915, he was sentenced hy Hon.
- - - , J udgc of the Superior Court
to a term of two
years in the state penitentiary.

The only evidence introduced was an nnanthcnticated copy of the:
information filed hy the District Attorney. A statement was made in
the charge that the finding of the jury and the sentence of the Court
were not availahle, as the case was at the time 011 appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State oi California.
The fact that the case was 011 appeal woulcl not have prcclud,,d
the accuser from obtaining an authenticated record of the judgment of
co11«ictio11; hut if it !:c true, as it undoubtedly is, that an appeal had
been taken, the accused could not have been properly follnd gnilty in
the absence of ether edclencc of the commission of the offense, upon
the production of even a properly authenticated record of his convict1011 in the State Court-the judgment not being final; and the wisdom
of such a rule must be obtrusively apparent.
1f other tlwn a final judgment of conviction were admittC'd a.<

Prima faric e\·idence of the commission of an offense it might well
happen that after his convicHon at his l\lasonic trial the judgment of
conviction in the State Court wonld be set aside in the Appellate Court.
a new trial granted and the qeicmlant subseqt'ently acquitted. \Ve
would thus be placed in the extraordinary position oi ha1·ing expelled
from the fraternity a man who had been charged with an offense of
which he had been acquitted by a jury, and withont having heard a
scintilla of evidence as lo the trnth or falsity of the charge made against
him,

In this case there was not even an\' testimonv of any sort tending
to show, in the remotest degree, that the accused had ever been con·
victecl. Ko ballot was taken npon the specifications. but had a ballot
been taken upon the spccilications, as of course should have hecn done,
the accused couhl not ha1'e been properly found guilty of either the
S('cond or third spccitlcations, that is of his trial, com·iction and sentence, hec;ll'sc the only evidence before the commission was in support

486

GfL\NIJ LODGI<; OF CALIFOHNL\.

<>f the lir't sp,·cilica1ion-that is, that he hall been charged by the District .\ttorney.
\\'c Illa\· a"un1c that he ktd been com·ictell; that an appeal harl
iiel'll taken :u1d that the judgment of com·iction had been affirmed; but
thne \\as n" e\·irknce of that before- the· commission, nor is there any
record before us to 11·arranl snch an assumption.
\\'e Illa\· as ill<li,·ic\uals be entirely satislicrl with the fact that a
cntain man. has !wen c01tvicted of a u·rtain crime am\ is incarcerated
in a penal institution. That knowledge may ha,·e been gained from
the published account in a 1ie11·spaper c>f the trial am\ co11\'iction, and
we ma\· lie willing to, and may perhaps safely. prcclicatc our actions as
to our. mn1 pri,·ate affairs upon the knowktlge thus gained, but when
11 -c arc called upon to re,·iew the proceedings of a trial of a ~Iason we
;,re bound In· th,· rcqnremcnts of the constitution solemnly enacted for
tlic presen·a.tion of the righh of the inc\i,·iclual.
To aflirm the decision in such a case as this woulrl be in effect to
dcm· the accused his right lo a trial. Jt would he far worse than lo
e"p;·l him, as has l».·en suggested, upon the liling with the Secret;try of
his T,<1dge of an authenticated cnpy of the jnclgment of com·iction in a
::;(ate' l'"url. liccans,: in that case there would he at least legal eYiclcncc
of th,· fact that hv hacl been conYicted. A.s was said by the Cram\
\l;tsll'l" "·ith rdcrcucc to the rcco111111ernlation to declare expelled a
member "·Jw might ha\·c· confessed to the commission of a felony:
"Ccrtai 11 t,· ancl snrcf\· in the administration of jnstice and in the infliction of p~·naltics ar:- nwrc tn he desired than mere summariness."
\\"e therdore offer the fo\1owing resolution:
Ncso/;.,·d. That the yerdict and sentence of the commission am\
the action of the LOllgc in the rnattcr of Trial Record No. 179 be and
the same hereby ;tre -rcyersetl, and the case 1s remamlcd for a new
trial.
CH.\S. !\rnF.R'f !\nA:-rs,
\VALTER F. HA.\S,
CicoRGF. L. ]oKES,

Committee.

The report was acloptecl and the case remandecl for a
new trial.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COJ\TMITTEE.
Past c;rancl .\faster \\' illiam P. Filmer, Chairman of the
Special Crn11111 ittee to which had he en ref erre<l the T-T en<ler,;1111 rc.,;t1lut iu11c;, rcpurtl'd a,; fulluw,;:
.l/. ". I J '. ". (,'r1111d .lfasta and Brct/irn1 of the Gra11d Lodge:
\'our crnnmittce, lo \\'hich was referred the resolutions (nnmbcrs
one ancl l\rn) introduced by J\f.ist \\'orshipful 1-lrother Orrin S. Hen-

487

dn"n1, ;mi\ also the n.·solution introc\11cccl by llrother Freel Donr, all
relating to the \\'riting, signing with ~Iasonic titles, puhlicatiun, pronmlgation and circubtion of a report or opinion of the purported ritual
or secret \\'Ork of a certain non-1\Iasonic organization, h)· l\fosl \\'orshipful :\fotky Hc\\'es Flint, 1\fost \\'orshipful Dana Reill \Ve\1cr.
Right Worshipful \Villiam Rhodes Hen·cy, \Vorshipful Sanmcl E.
Burke, and \Vnrshipfnl \Villiam Kettner, all officers or Past officers of
the Crarnl Lodge of California, ancl the publicity arot'sed am\ discus'ion pro\'okcd throughout the Crand Jurisdictions Ly such action, ha Ye
had the same under consideration am\ beg ka\'e to report as follows:
There were summoned before the committee, in executi1·e session,
Brothers IT en·cy, \Veller. Flint, Burke am\ Kettner. who were each
requested to state frankly ancl fairly lo the committee his particular
connection with the episode which has threatened to disturb the peace
and harmony of the craft in this J uriscliction. These hrethren compliecl
\\'ith onr request, and we bdien· withhe1cl nothing from us. There
were also summoned ancl appeared before the committee Tirothcrs TTcnllcrson, Doerr, Lowe, Giffin and Bean.
Certain documentary evirknce, consisting of newspaper clippings,
marked pai·agraphs in \'arious puhlications, and pamphlets. 1vcrc al"'
sulimittccl lo the committee for examination and consideration.
.\s a result of our labors we have arri1·ec\ at se1·eral clelinite con clusitins concerning this. rnm;t u;1fnrtunatc happening. \Ve hcliC\·e:
T'irst, that no 1dterior moli1·e actuated any one of the participants
111 the matter: that there was no intent to debase or to stultify onr own
Fraternity or to extol and exalt another organi7.ation.
Secondly, we emphatically declare that t\1e statement that the
brethren concerned in the publications complained of, or some of them,
or any of them, received large, or any, sums of money as a direct reward
for their work, is a cruel and \'icious slander. so improbable that to
state the same \vith knowledge of the character of the men im·oh·cd is
sufficient refutation.
Thirdly, ,,.c arc satislled that political preferment did not suggest
the action taken, or enter in any way into what was done in the mat·
tcr. \Ve clo not find any sufficient justification for the accusation made
in this connection that any financial institution in Los Angeles expected
to. or did, profit thereby.
Fourthly, we lind that \Vorshipful \Villiam Kettner introduced
said document in Congress nnder a misapprehension as to its haying
been authorized by the l\lasons "f California, an1l that llll' widl' circulation of th,· donmH·nt afkr its introduction int<> the Congressional
Record \\'a.' undn the fi ank of me111hcrs of Congress other than Tl rot lier
Kettner.

l'RUCEJ<'lJlNGS OF THE

un.\Nl) LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jn the focc "f thc,.;l· lindin!ZS, hnwcn·r. we arc forced to other as
dclinitc and controlling conclminn,.; in the matter. The individ11al memlicr,.; "f the c"nrn1itlcc ;ire familiar with what has appeared in the public
'e·cular pn·,.;s ni th·: c<Hmtry. and in I\fa,.;onic publications during the
year pa,.;t in regard t<J this matter. and the extent to which the unfortunate ;md ill-ad1·iscd aclion of our J!asonic brethren has been used
t" unduh· cx;tlt and magnify :1n org:111i1.atinn in no way connecte<l with
J!asonrY:_an organi1.ari;m which many members of the craft cow;ider
lrnstilc
the best interests of nur Order. Cumulati1·e evidence of the
chagrin. almost to sorrow. <ttH\ the dissatisfaction felt hy the members
"f the craft in this Cram! Jm·i,.;c\iction 01·er the action of these brethren
ha,.; been fnrnislll'c\ hy the ot•t,.;poken remarks of the members of this
Crand llocly. within the wall,.; of the Cram! Lodge, in the anterooms,
;incl c1Tn on the ,.;treets of thi,.; city. Testimony before the committee
<.;an· indication,.; of a wide,.;preac\ and intense fecling on the subject
;hrnughout the Juri:sdiction. Your committee feels that the action of
<JUr Lrcthren 11·a,.; unfortunate am! ill-ach-isecl. and t11at the temper of
the Crarnl Lodge dem;1nds. anc\ the occasion calls for an emphatic and
unanimous protest ag:tin.st thi,; sort of thing-. Xot only should this
Crand Boch· regi,ter a ,·i.<.;orons c\i,.;;qiprm·al of what has been done in
the prl',.;l'nt. i11,;tancl' in the is,;nance and publication of the questionable
d<Jcunw11t,; complained oi, !tut it should post a sign of warning. so plain
that "hl' ll"lw r1111,; may rc;1d." in orclcr tl1at there he no similar offense
1n thl' foturc.
Your committel' is nut in sympathy, however, with the drastic pro,i,i11n,; of t lie n·,.;"Jution,; of J! ost \Vorshipfnl Brothl'r Henderson.
\\"hat has lll'en done has been llone. \Vhat shall transpire within these
\\"all,; i:; not matter that shoulll he scattered broadcast to the four wind,;
oi lll'a\cn. Xo pnlilic disayow;11. !teyond our own precincts. or pnhlicity
"uhick of regular ,\fasonic channels. by any one connected with this
tr;msaction is reqnirec\ or should he demanded. The world without,
particl·Ltrly any sect or organization. should not be affonled the safr;faction of rejoicing at the lrnmiliation of members of the craft, or
rejoicing at thl' situation in which this Grand Boc\y ·finds itself.

encl that when st•ch shall ha1·e been clone the incident may he rnnsiderc·<I
clo.scd, anc\ peace and harmony shall pn·1·ail her«. anc\ the pure feelings
of brotherly lo1·c may accompany each one of us lo our homes.

4SS

to

Your committee lielien·s and rccommclllls that the disa\·owals of
nlt«rior purpose. pl'rsonal or indirect pecuniary profit, and of any intent
to impropl'rly use J[asonic names and titles which the brethren invoJyec\
ha\·e made· in committee, anc\ which statements they are prepared to
make on the floor of the Granll Lodge, should be heard and acceptell
hy this CralHI Body 11·ithout further requirement.
Your committee further recommelllls that the fnlkst opportunity
llc" afforded fllr a compkte hearing of this important matter by the
Crand Lodge« that the participation of each brother may be fnJly expLti1wd; that all lloulit,.; and 111isgi1·ings may be wiped away, to the

489

Finally, in keeping with these Jinc\ings, we recommernl the passage
of the following resolutions anc\ move their adoption:
\VHF,REAS, The Crane\ Lodge F. & A. l\f. of California has heard
through the report of its committee appnintecl for that purpose, and by
personal word and explanation on the floor of the (~rand Lodge, the
entire connection of .\lost \Vorshipful Jfotley Hewes Flint, Dana Reid
\Veller, Right \Norshipful \Villiam Rhodes Hcn·cy, \Vorshipful Samuel
E. Burke and \Vorshipful \Villiam Kettner, with the writing. signing
with l\1 a sonic titles. pulilication. promulgation anc\ circulation of a
report or opinion of the purported ritual or secret work of a certain
non-'.\Iasonic organization; and
\VHERF,.\S, Such report and personal explanation justifies the conclusion reached hy saic\ committee tha,t such action while unfortunate
and iJl-ac\vised, was not actuated by ulterior moti\·e or intent. pecumary
rcw;1rcl, or hope of political preferment; and

\V HER£,\S, The action of such self-appointed committee was without <!flthority oi, or sanction by, this Crane\ Hoc\y or any other Tlfasonic
body, therefore, he it

.Rcsoh•cd, That the Grand Loclge F. & .\. Jf. of California <loes
hereby most emphatically disavow anc\ repudiate any connection with,
authority for, or relation, to the aforesaid action by the brethren named.
and particularly docs this Crane\ Boc\y regarcl the use of Tlfasonic names
ancl titles hy these brethren, in this connection. as a serious mistake.
Rcsoh•cd, further, That it is the sense of the Grand Lo~lge, F. &
:\. l\I. of California, that no l\Iason should, while describing himself as
a l\lason, or directing attention to his l\Iasonic affiliations, or while
using any title of a past or present officer of any l\Iasonic Boc\y.
indorse, or appear to indorse, any organization, sect or body of men
not recognized by this Grand Lodge; or indorsc, or approve, or criticise, or condemn, or in any way bear witness for or against, the ritual,
or practices, or purposes, of any such organi7.ation, sect, or body of
men.
Respectfully submitted,
vV:1L P. Fiurr.R.
EDWARD

H. HART,

\VJLLIAM

H.

WASTE,

]. H. STEPHENS,
H. ]. 0\n'.N,
Committee.

The report was adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 :30 o'clock
this afternoon.

490

PflOCl~r~DlNGS

01<' THJD

Ju ~rauh iEnhgr.
Thursday, Octoher 14, 191.:i.
.\ fternoon Session.
was calle(l on at 2 :30 o'clock, the
Crall(] :\laster presiding.

This heing the honr fixed for the delivery of the Annual
( lrati<m. \\.orshipful ~latt S. llnghes addres;;ed the (:;rand

!

.1

a,; f\l1JO\\S:

\ TEl.\D OF :\L\SO:'\fC JDE.-\LS.
.i/o.(f 11 ·urshipi11! Grn;;d .ifasfrr. al!</ Hrcthroi of the Gn111d l,odge:

.\t
o-iyen point in time three ages med-the age that is rle:td,
1hv :we th:tt "is li,·in;r, ;111d the :tin· that is nnlioru. The Jlrst age is the
rcaln; .,f histon : tl:e second is the field oi achic1·cmcnt; the- third is
the tnrit«n- of i1kals. ,\;!\' institution that has gone any distance
l1C'Y"m! it:-; h~girn1i11gs !Inds it;df related to each uf these three ages; and
\ h~·sc rdatio11' c•xist for the' ancient and lwnnrahle order under whose
auspices IH'
in anm1al c:ession.
CnrrcspolJ(ling to these three institutional aspects. arc certain types
.,f mint!. There arc thoc:c for \Yhom the past of
has
pernliar fascinatiun. The antiquarian here finds a field rich in treasure.
The explorations in this region hal'C hcl'n richly productive; the results
lia1·c been embodied in a great and growing literature; they arc acces,il>k 11pn11 the shdl'cs nf our libraries. There are others who arc interested in the pn::;cnt act11·ities of our Order. They sustain its routine
work; !hc·y fill its official positions; they direct its philanthropic enter
nriscc:; the,· sern' ;ill its immccliatc and varied purposes. Then, there
;trc among. us men of
whc•sc eyes arc to the future. They are
1i1e prnphds oi the 11e11· order: the pioneer~ of the unknown years.
sec· : he l.lrc:tt fratcrnit1·. not as it has hccn and not as it is, but
it ongltt tn he and as it. m;cy he. Dcyond the historical past, and
ln•yond the practic;1l pre:;cnt. tlwsc seers
the possihlc future.
The spokl's111an d :-;nch an ncc;.sion a;.; this hears a challenge from
each of ihl'SC' three sonrccs; and, hy re;1c:on of limitation of time and
.-c·nsc "i litncsc:. mnst m;ikc hi,.; choice of thc•me. That choice has hc:cn
:11ade I.ii· 'emir spc;1kcr after <lnc dclilwratinn. Ile has chosen to speak
on c,.,-1;,i;1 .\las<•n;c ideak In making that choice. it has hcrn taken
mlo :1t-c<>1lllt that the function of the orator i:i nol that of the secretary

GRAND LODQb] OF CALIFOHNL\

491

or the historian-they make record of that whicb has bccu done or
undone. Neither is it the task of the orator to confine himself lo ritual
utterance, ro1:ti11c work, or constitutional limits. He has a lihcl'ty bcyoml all these rest 1·ai11ts, and by his spc(·ch he may change or confirm
ritual and :;crvice and constitution.
Another consitkration dictati11g this choice of subject has been
lhl' fact that the past of our Order has bcc:n embalmed in a literature,
acccssihlc to all st11dc11ts, aml the speaker has no fresh contribution to
make to su.:11 .\Iasonic lore. lie has also been mindful in
his
subject that this annual commtmication is a time of making and receiving reports. lk conld expect to add nothing worth while to the clear
:rnd comprehcn,<i\'c resume of p1«:scnt activities and existing conditions
contained in the annual address of the Most \Vorshipfol Crand ~laster,
supplcmcukd as it Im;, l:cen by the reports of the other Grand Officers.
There is still «nolher point of ,·iew. Xo institution can live by
history alone. Decay has :ilrcady begun when any institutional succession is content with the borrowed splendor oi ancient glory. It
was a true, as well as witty. <.aying that any man who has nothing
better wherewith to commend hi1melf than pride of ancestry, is like a
potato-the best part of him is under ground. We shall not yield our
minds to the deadly heresy th;1t the best of
is written in
dusty voh1mcs or buried iu ancient tombs. It is also to be home
in mind th:it no man docs his best wnrk in the present, unless he is
inspired a!l'd snstaiued by a vie: ion of the future. This vital truth has
hcen illmtrate(l on a magnificent scale by the fortunes of the people of
the Y cllow Empire. \Vi th an education consisting mainly in the memorizing of the writings of the sages of the past; with a religion calling
for the worship of ancestors; and with a code of ethics largely
in the vitalizing element of a profound belief in immortality; that great
people for centuries lagged hchind the world procession.
have
only wakened from the stupor of centuries as they have come into contact with progressive races and ha1'e been gh·en the vision of a great
iuture. So a ~fason may be letter-perfect in the ritual; may be able to
lill anv chair in the Lodge; and n<ay perform all prescribed duties with
the p;ccision of a piece o i per fret mcchanio;m; bnt if he has no vision
he lack' the soul of a true J\fason.
For all these n•ason:<. the speaker has had the conviction that the
demands of the honr callc<l him away from the past. and away from the
present, into the limitless ficl<l of J\las011ic possibilities. The blimkst
and most dc,·otul lover oi our fraternity wo11kl scarc:dy claim for it a
flawless p;1st or a perfect present. That n11:ans there is room for im-·
provcmcnt and rca,:on for advancement. Onr theme dn<.:o; not call for
the discussion of anything rcvolu1 ionary. The ideals n re 1hose of
and the most conscr\'ative member of this Crane\ Lodge wil:

492

l'HOCEEDlNGS OF THE

recognize t ltc·m as ancient landmarks. The discussion wilt also cmpha,izc .the practical 1·alue of the iclcal; for it will ban: to do with clements
as matter-of-fact as those embodied in the report of the Committee
on Finance. .\11(1 1rnw. aftcr this somewhat lengthy preparatory parley
"n the· <>utsidc, 11c arc ready to approach our subjc·ct proper.
TH£

tm:.1L OF (2Cc\LJ'J'Y.

Our lirst },J a">nic iclcal is that of quality-nf quality as rclatccl to
mc·rniJcr,Jiip. It i.s of 1·1rst importance in e1·ery particular. One of the
cook hooks of a past generation hacl a recipe for cooking rabbits. The
tirst direction was: "Cd your rabbit!" The recipe for a Masonic
Lodge calls for tlll' getting of men; and, not only so, but the getting
of men of a cntain quality. The paramount importance of this ideal
may llTll lie c·mphasizecl by calling attention to certain indubitable facts:
In the tir,.;t place. I'recma,.;onry is not an association of the a1·cragc.
It contcntplatc·,.; a body of picked men; it demands certain distinctiYc
qu;ilitications of thc,,;c· who seek its fellowship; it insists that those
'" lw arc ;1dmitted t" its m1·sterie,.; shall he worthy and well qualified; it
inquires 11·hethcr tltose wh"1 ,;(all(] at it,; doors arc in harmony with ih
honored pa,.;t, ih acceptc·d principle,;, and its clctinecl purposes. You
coulcl not make a :\lasonic Lodge ont of the tir,.;t one hundred men
yon might pick up <>n the street. That is the reac;on our doors are so
jealomly guarclecl; that is the rca,on canclidates must be vouched for
ill· those who ban· tlll'msclves sto"d ol'r test,;; that is the reason those
\\~lw join ns mnst take snch solemn obligations. ::\o other human
organization i:; intended to pay greater attention to its membership
qn.ality; no other organization depends more for its standing and intlnrnce in the· comn11111ity upon- the qnality of its membership.
.\ second reason ior this emphasis on quality is, that no institution
i,.; <ttl\' better than the material out of which it is built. The wcaknes,.;
of m;.1111· exi:;ting organizations is that their specilications call for marble
whik the material fttrni,;hell for the lmilding i:; only mud. lf the
:\la:;onic Ordn :;tanlb out a,; one of the great institutions of our ci,·ilization,;; if it c:<ercic;es ;1tl inthtc•ncc· on the social onkr far beyond its mere
nnnH·rical :;trcngth; the· only reac;on is that it is an as:;ociation of
, 11 pcrtor men.
ln other words, the efficiency of :'.\fasonry depends npon
the quality of those· \\'ho arc rccog·nizcd as :'.\fasons. The point needs
no laboring.
Stilt another reason for regarding this matter of quality as of
paramount importance is that c1·ery other interest of the :'.\Iasonic Order
dc·1wrnb npon it. l t he longs to our fraternity to guarcl its ancient lanc~­
marks. l\ut what llo men who lack Masonic character and :'.\Iasomc
>pirit care for ancient lanclmark,;? Tn the keeping of many men onr
prin·ks.s hnitagc i:; not an in:;piration ancl an honor; it i~ a contrast

Ult.\Nll LUDUL•; 01•' C.\LlFUHNL\

and a repro;1ch. lt belongs to :\fa">nry to exemplify certain great
principles in· life. l\ut \IT nc·ed to remember that principles arc only
safe in the keeping of men of principle. That i:; a lesson writ large
on the pages of our hic;tory. It belong,; to :\ 1asonry to further certain
great purposes. Those purposes arc umcltish and humanitarian. I am
not mistaken when I say that the true :\Iason will ask: ''\Vhat can I
,.,
(10.
The spurious l\fason will always be asking: ..\Vhat can I get'"
The tics of brotherhood arc so close in ]\[ asonry that e\'ery opportunity and inducement is offere(l to the man of mercenary spirit who
would prostitute it to personal uses. The result is that nearly eYcry
Lodge has those who arc continually calling upon their brethren to
turn their grindstone,;. There arc those who capitalize their member,;hip for hmine:;s purposes; there arc those who capitali7.C their Masonic
affiliations for political ends. Such persons arc the pan-handlers of
:\Tasonry. Whencn·r public-spirited citizens in a commnnity begin to
'hake their heads and say it will be hard to defeat an office-holding
barnacle because of his fraternal support, it is high time for those who
Ion· the Order to sit up and begin to take notice. llnder such circumstances the hallmark of excellence is being· erased from the Lodge door.
lt is also to be noted, in this connection, that there arc certain
1endencics of our times which affect the whole social order. They arc
atmospheric in their prC\·alancc and no one of us is wholly immune
from their influence. One of the most striking examples of such a
tendency may be found in what may be termed the great American
fallacy of numbers. \V c a re e\·crywhere suffering from a craze for
numerical strength. \Ve gloat 01·er the ccnsns returns once in ten
years when they announce our growing millions. The newspapers of
every little town, beat the tom-tom and our metropolitan dailies sound
the hcwgag m·cr an increase of population. A distinguished ex-president
of the United States shows his teeth against race suicide, as if what we
need above all things is numbers. £yen our churches arc tainted. l f
one of the great denominations shows a falling off in the nsuaf rate
of increase for a single year, at once there is heard the sound of lamentation like unto the chant of resurrected Jeremiahs. Ministers arc sometimes rated hy their ability to draw crowds, without any reference to
the me.thocls by which they draw them, or what they do with them after
they get them.
Now all this sort of thing is simply a species of lunacy. Anyone
with sufficient intelligence to raise an umbrella under proper conditions, ought to know. that there is not a State in .the Republic that coulcl
not lose a certain part of its population to its tremendous ach·antagc.
In fact, we pay enormous snms of money for the operation of cumbrous
machinery for the sole purpose of getting rid, temporarily or permanently, of some units of our population that arc counted by the census-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1:tlcn. Thcrl' is n"t a church in this country, in all probability, that
,\ml
11 ·"\1 Id n"t I1e' Ii•. t kr off h1· rcas<ln of a kw li.rst-c\ass funerals.
tl1nl' :ire .\J;""11ic L"dgcs. n"t a fe11·. \l·h<lsc <Juality \Y<mltl lie \·astly
1mpr<l1 ed. if. in,\l':ul "f prcpari11g claso;c.s to get in, they could dc\'Otc
'"me time to prep;11·ing a cla" or l\1·0 to get out. \V c Americans, in
,tall'. clrnrch, and in fraternal order,;, need quick recm·cry from the
i11~a11ity of 1111111l1l'r~.

Thi,- whok tcndcncy is against the ::lfasnnic ideal nf quality. One
d<lcs not need to seek afar the symptoms of thi,- common craze in
::llas<lnic Lodges. \\'henc1·cr tlll' ::lfastcr of a Lodge, in answer to your
inquiry as t" the progre,;s of the work, tells yon· \Yith pride of the
phenomenal mm11icr of candidate,; recc·i1·c<l under his administration,
yon will t"1nd yonrscli face to face 11·ith a moon-struck brother. Arni
some of onr fratcrs han· suffered such 1·ioknt attacks that one feels
a' if he ought to ;,sk for a 11·ril of de /u11atico i11q11irc11do. Another
;1cnte symptom of the di,tcmpcr is found in cmrnection with the work
"f till' Lodge. lt comes to he rcgar<k<l as nothing better than a degree
factory. \lclllllcTS get the idea there is nothing doing unless there are
degn·e·s t" lie cll11fr1-r,·<L Thc go()(] old call. hallowed hy the years.
for ;1n1·thing f"r the go:1d of the Order, is nol lhc signal for suggestions,
111nti"ns, discu"i"ns and appointment of committees. The Lodges that
pul their 11 hole emphasis on the 11·ork of initiation, arc those complaining oi 1:1ck oi attendance arnl getting U[l kitchen rc1·i1·als to warm
11[1 the· brethren of the craft.
The 11"lrnlc- lllatkr. 11·ith all its symptoms ancl all its effects, goes
hack in the la,.;t :111alysis to 1he primary prob km of quality. \II/ c need
«i lie more cardul in the choic·,' of material and we ncell more care for
the material .ifll'r it has been chosen. Of a certain sort of members it
111a 1· lie said, as of ile·as ancl boils, lhe· more you ha1·e of them the worse
oil. rnu arc. Retter a small Lodge of quality than a great aggregation
11-h,;c;e ::lfasonn· has Leen largch· furnished by the jeweler. lncrcasingly
our e·111pha,.;is ;lmuld lie placed ;rn the 111;1ttcr of quality.
THF, llll·'..IL OF U\0\\"Lf.llf~J<'..

Onr scrnml ::llasonic ideal is that of knowledge'. One of lhe C'llCb
,.f \Ja.;onn· is light: and light is snmnymnns with intelligence. ThC'
111:in 11·ho 1;·an·ls the highway from the vVcst to the East is a seeker after
light. The implication is that ::IIasonry has an educational function,
and that c 1·cn· Lodg-e ought to be a school of instruction with a curricnlum rnn·ring the theory and practice of brotherhood. This educa1iunal function of \Iasonry ought to ha 1·c in 1·icw both the individual
111clllhcr and the worl<l at large.
ll 1s ;1 11cccssit1· if 11·c arc to haye a ::lfasonically intelligent memlier ..
,hip. It go<·, with.out saying that no 111an n·,·r g-rasperl lhe full signili-

495

cancc of lhe principles of ::lfasonry simply hy rccci1·ing the degrees.
in the lirst place, a great deal ,,f our ritual \\"ork h:1s come to ns from
the pasl. ::llnch of it, thcrd11rc. 1we<Li translation because of ll'rms
that arc ohsoktc, and inlcrprct:1tinn lwc:lllsc of forms that arc archaic.
fn the next place, there is much that is symbolical; and symhols, such as
those employed by lllasonry, tKed more than the passing explanation
gi1·cn in two or three brief lcdnrcs. .-\gain, the circumstances nuder
which the degrees arc receiycd arc not conduci\"l' to clearness am!
continuity of thought. And, ll11ally, many Lodges arc all too lax in
conferring degrees without Cl'en the superlicial preparation rcqllirccl
hy Masonic usage. These arc some of the reasons why every Lodge
should be a school of instrnction on the subject of :lfasonic spirit and
methods.
The results of our failure in this respect arc manifest. The first
outcome is what may be called .\Iasonic illiteracy. Tt is 11ot too much
to say that there are a great many 1Yho ha1'C rccci1,cd our degrees
who ha1·c no clear idea as to what a ?\Iason actually is. Tf they were
held up at the point of a gu11 some ni;;ht with the demand: "A deilnition
of a Maso11, or your life!" they woulci he likely to turn up in hcaycn
or some other place al brcakhst time. The current notions about our
Order sometimes r,,mind one nf the famous college dclinition of a lobster. A freshman was asked liy the professor of natural history to
define a lobster. He graYely replied that a lobster is a red fish ,that
walks backward. The professor said it was a most excellent dellnitio11
with some trifli"ng exceptions. In the first place, a lobster is not a fish;
in the second place, it is not reel; and, in the third place, it docs not
\\"alk backward. Otherwise, he said, the freshma11 had giyc11 a good
dclinition.
Now, Masonry either stands for something dcfo1itc, or it docs not.
l f it docs mea11 anything dclinite a11d distinctin', then every member of a
Lodge sl10nkl ha,·c clear ideas on the subject. That desirable end can
only he accomplished liy makii<g every Lodge a school of instruction,
aml h;n·ing intelligence, as one of our '.\Iasonic ideals. kept constantly
ill 1·icw.
En·n our fundamental principles 11ccd interpretation. Tt is a
commonplace, for example, to say that Masonry means brotherhood.
But at once a score of questions arc suggested to the inquisitive mind:
vVhat kind of brotherhood? Vlhat is brotherhood? What docs l\Iasonic
brotherhood imply, vVi1at arc the obligations of ::IIasonic brotherhood
t'ndcr specific circumstances? What is the relation of the brotherhood
10 those who do not bdong? The intelligent :i\Tason ought, at the \'en·
k ast, to be able to gi1·c answers to such elementary questions.
,
vVhcn we remember that the man who comes into Masonry takes
Llp a life work, the necessity for the educational function of the l\fasonic
Lodge appears C\'Cn more i111perati1'C. Brotherhood is a profes.sion,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA
l'WJCe:EDlNGS CW 'l'HE

(11nipri.s1ng hoth a :-;cienn· ;ind an art: hu1 who acquires a professi.on
in tlw conferring of threl' degnTs on thn:c evenings, together with
the mcmori1i11g "f a few paragraphs of a ritual :-;efficc. and the hearing of a fr"· lirid lectures: The man who takes np the profe:;sion of
medicine these 1\a1·.s must h;11·c a preparatory college course; mnst
pnlsccute four yca;s oi >trenuons .'tudy; must scn-e his tinw in hospital;
;u1d after all that it is considered that he is just
to begin practice. The sanw thing is trne nf the other learned professions. But we
cx1wct to turn out qualilied l\fasons after the manner of some of onr
get-rich-quick ad\'(·rti>cnwnts. The impossibility of such a thing i~ self<,·idrnt; thl' imperatin· demand for the persistent diffusion of l\f:isomc
intelligence among tlH' members of the craft is no kss apparent.

Tt is aho to he cmpha5dzed that Freemasonry owes something in the
1rn1· of the sprca,Jing of its princip'cs to the world at large. Onr teachin~s arc not to he kept in cotton-wool, only to he hronght out and exhihitC'd within the s<:crccy of the lodgc-room. There art: certain things
;"or which l\lasonn· stands and there arc certain things against which
l\[a-<onn· stands, a;1c\ those thin..;s may well he known to mankind, both
ior the. sake of l\fasonry and for the sake of the world. J\fy earliest
:>.Jasonk recollection goes hack to the time when I was a little boy.
There wa> a man in the small C•lmmtmity acensed of stealing turkeys.
Jk was hrnught ur for tri;1l in a J\lasnnic Lodge, found guilty and expelled. The action of the Lodge hccamc known to the public, and the
comnmnit\· understood that. whatc\'cr else the Order favored or opposed,
it was ag:;i11<t turkey stealing. That i,- the first thing I rememl"~.r ahout
the :\fasonic Order: and now that I haH had a rather extensive and
rnmpn:hensive acqllaintancc\ it is my condction that it was a very
11·holesonw beginning.
\\'c belic\'C that our principles arc of value to mankind, and that
<·ad1 fraternity is a prophecy of the coming time of uni,·ersal brotherhood. There onght to he some point of inflnential contact between
:'.\fasonry and the social onler whereby the public rnigbt profit hy a
knowledge of what it is trying to do in the world. This work cannot
he accomplished by one Grand Lcetnrer, whose bands are foll hy rcas~n
of the demand:< of the Order. 1t might he feasible for each l\Iasomc
jurisdiction to maintain a sort of nniversity extension conrse-:to have
a number of really qualified lecturers, who could not only mterpret
the work to l\lasons in the lodge-room; hut. who, in addition, could
elucidate th,; broad principles of human brotherhood to the great world
outside.
This program of education is a necessity if F rcemasonry is to
ayoid the risk of l1cing· ldt khirnl in the progress of the race. The
meaning of ,.:nch a statement may he illustrated by rderencc to one of
dw familiar hit,; of om history. One of the stock stories frequently

497

heard at l\fasonic banquets, is the incident of the wounded Mason on
the battlefield giving the hailing sign of distress and being rescued and
cared for by one of the enemy who was a brother l\lason. It is alway'
recited as a triumph of Masonic sentiment and principle. But withont
minifying the value of such a manifc,;tation of fraternity, it may he
declared that the real triumph of :\fasonry will not be seen in the worlrl
until its influence is so felt and applied. that brother l\Iasons will never
be compelled, by personal ambition and arbitrary power, to face one
another in deadly combat on the battletield. And that end can only
he attainecl by a persistent and prolonged process of general education
on the basis of the principle of brotherhood. Freemasonry cannot lw
content simply with the rescue of an individual here and there from
the horrors of actual warfare; it must strive by e\·ery means in its
power to bring to humanity the lasting era of peace.
Ocr point may also be illustrated by a reference to our familiar
work of charity. Freemasonry is philanthropic. Xo little time and
thought are given in such gatherings as this to the work of relief and
the sustaining of charitable imtitutions. Our fraternity responds to the
cry of distress with open.handed generosity; hut the giving of alms is
only the kindergarten course in human relief. The Good Samaritan
was faithful to his immediate duty when he took care of the unfortunate 1·ictim of thieves on the Jericho road. It has been snggestcd,
however, that the modern Samaritan has been extending his work of
travelers' aid. · J-1 e has been mquiring ahout the antecedents of the
thieves and seeking to know why the boys in Jerusalem and Jericho are
growing up as criminals; he has been wanting to know why the authorities do not give protection tn those whose business calls them to and
iro between the two cities. He is no longer content simply to exercise
humane offices in behalf of the individual who has become the victim
of preying criminals and negligent authorities.
Thus, in thC' nature of things, we must add to our work of relief,
rnmc inquiry into the reasons why appeals for help are b''ing made
from time to time. And if it is discovered that many of these burdens
have been thrown upon l\Iasonry by reason oi wrong and oppression
in the social order, then l\lasonry mnst do its part in the rigl1ti11g of the
wrongs and in the prevention of snch injnstice. 1t is childish to imagine
that a great order will always he content to care for specific cases of
want, without inquiring as to the causes of the want it is called upon to
relieve. These things, certainly practical and pressing in character,
simply serve to show that we must give new attention to the l\fasonic
1deal of knowledge.
.
'!'HE Illf,.\L OI' Rf,LlCJON'.

\Vhcn we speak of the ideal of religion in connection with Freemasonry. 1IH'rc will prohahly he somc well-meaning persons so ill-

•

PHOCE!clJlNGS OF THE

GHAND LODGE 01'~ CALIFORNIA

to declare there is no snch thing. There arc those who holJ
the ,-ain ima.l(ination that onr Order has nothing to do with religion.
Ji iL is meant hy th;1t to say that ;\fasonry is not committed to my
r\'liginn or ynur religion, thl' st;1tcmc11t is correct. Rut to say that it
h:1s nothing :o do \\'ith religion is another matter.

Its full urb has two hemispheres-one didnc and one ln1111a11-aml what
Cod has thus joined togc•thcr the definitions of lexicographers must not
put asunder Fnrtlicr, it is also to be said that the large part of the
duties enjoim·d by the Creator have to do with human rclation,.;hips.
H• that morality hc·cnrncs an cs-,cnti;1l part of religion.
R<:'ligion am!
morality arc Ihm< nnc and indivisihle for Jc\\' and Christian 011 the
amhurity of the Ohl and :\'cw Testaments of the
of :\Ia sonic
and practice.

198

Ld lb call to mind some familiar facts. Ko lllasonic Lodge is
rt'gularly in sc..,;-;ion nnkss the l loly Hihk lies open on the altar. It ts
k11n1111 ;1111ung :\lasons as the Great Light.
But what is the Holy Bible
that is giH:n this central place in all our gatherings and which is dc<crih('d as that which illuminates the 1Iasonic way? It is .;ome.thing
more than a certain weight and size of blank paper bound in book form.
l the Bible is only :i pi('ce oi lodgc-rm>m furniture, without any rcfcrnicc to its contc11ts . then we miglil as well put a volume of the United
States Cc-nsns R('ports in its place>. For onr ciYilization the Bible is the
text-hook oi
and it is the text-book of religion because we
ill'licw it contains a rc\·elation from God. ::\'ow the Bible in the Lodge
arnl ih ritual either mc·ans somdhing or it cloes not. If it has no real
signilicancc for :\fasonic life and practice then we ought to cease all
rnd1 false pretence; if it has any meaning it mnst be, from the charackr ni the Hook. a religious meaning.
:\la.'011ic hodic·.; ha\·c among their officer;; a
who is an
,,jfo:ial
of religion. Our sessions arc opened with pra.n:r.
Is there am· intelligent :\lason who would suggest that the prayers
pffcred in our Lodges arc only n·ncrahk forms of words and that they
r"ail~- have no rcli\(ious ;;igniticance? \Ve call upon the name of God
;11Hl we do it with re\·crcncc; hut is there anyone who would suggc;;t
1lt;1t our appt'al to hcan'n means JJO!hing in the way of religion?
lf
the Dc'ity is only an impressive cmwcniencc for ritual purposes; if the
llihlc Oll our altars is only a venerable relic of no recognized authority;
if l'Ur prayers arc only empty forms, so devoid of significance that they
c;mnot lw called religious; then Freemasons are open to the charge of
lieing the most conspicuous body of self-confessed
known
to history.
Tlwrc arc some authorities who haYc denied the existence of an
iikal oi rcligi<ln to
. This ha.~ hccn done on the ba:ds of a
:1artial :rnd faulty ddinition of "religion." Religion has been dclinecl
as "a sycklll oi faith in, and worship of. Di\·inc Being." On the other
hand, Freemasonry has been descrihc<I as "a p<?cnliar system oi
mnrality, Ycikd in allegory and illustrated by symbols." It
been held
that "morality" is conccTned with man's dutirs to his fellow-men, and
is tlic·rdorc something different from "rdigion," which is concerned
with his dnti\'s to hi.; C1·cator. It is sufficient an,;wcr to say that the
dcliniti"n> arc faulty. Heligi<lll according to the (;r..:at Light of "'>fasonry
eomprvhc·nds lioth rn:ui\ relation to God and man's relation to man

4!l9

There arc two common :\Iasonic i>ffenses against this ideal of religion. One is committed by the !lfason \\"ho is openly <1nd notoriouslv
irreligious. There arc such mcn1hcrs of our Order, though we believ~
their number is on the ckcn'asr.
\\'hen :\Jasons are known in the
comm1rnity as godkss in their liYes, as p1-.ifa11c and hlasphcrnons in their
speech, as antagonists of religion, as obstacles in tbc way of the best
influences in the social order. it is a reproach to 1he Order. Such men
carry their own indictment with them. Profos;;ing to han' the Holv
Bible as the light of their lives. they violak its t~achings anLI li\·e a,<
l hough there \\·ere no snch authority in cxistcneC'. Professing disbelid
in prayer, they helong to an order that nmnhl'rs a chaplain among its
regular officers. whose function it is lo open and close its sessions
with prayer.
no faith in Cod, thn· arc the same men who
stood at the :\lasonk altar and called 11pon God. to witness and help when
they took their sok111n obligations. ff honor has ,·aluc· and ronsistencv
is honor, then these persons arc offenders against the m<ost sacrc;I
things of the Onkr.

There
another clas.s oi offr11ders against the :\Tasonic ideal of
relig'.on-those who would suhstitu!C' Freemasonry for the teaching of
rclig1on and those who wouM substitute the Lodge for the institution
of religion. \Vhilc
has a religim's :ispect. its principles do not
exhaust the teachings of religion. and the Lrnlgc is not the Jistincth·e
institt1tion of religion. Yet it is no 11m1s1ial thing to hear some entlmsiastic l\fason declare that the principks of the Order arc his religion
and the todge his clmrch. And sometimr·s. with an air of profound
wisdom, some thoughtless brother declares that if a man is just as
good a "'>fason ;is he ought t.o he he will he a good-cnongh Christian.
Some sayings have the sound of wisdom "'ithout its substance, and this
is one of that platitudinous sort. \Vhy. if a man is jr'st as good a
blacksmith as he ought to be. he will he a good-enough Christian. Or.
to stretch the imagination somewhat if a man is just as good an
alderman as he ought to he, he will he a go1lll-eno11gh Christian, Such
speech i.; w;1stcd lung action.

But suppose one rlocs mah a rdigion out of "Yiasonic principles
and a church out of his todgc>. what kind of a religion does he accept?
Consider only one aspect of the subject. \V c have come to the point

•

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

iu the prngrc,;s d lmmanity when universality 11rnst be a mark of any
acceptl'(l religion. The time was when peoples were satisfied with
i;ationa' duti<"'-g<>ds ll'ithm~t power out~dde the conntrv's houmlaries.
There arc p<1rb of lhc \\'orld toda,1 where men worship l;oti:;ehold god<.
But the i11tellige111 man of today would not bow in worship to a
California gud er a United States deity. The religion of use to the
modern indi\·idu;tl nrn;;t he a nniYcrs:il religion. The civilized man of
1hl' t\\'cllti0th century mu,• kn-ca religion for all men e\·crywhcn'.
\ow. c<msidcring .\Ja:;onry as a religion and the Lodge as a church,
arc eoninrntcd l•y the <tartling fact that a man with st'.Ch a religion
is salistinl with somethini£ l hat h;tS no place for one-half of the 1111ma11
race, ;wd that the !Jest half-its \\'Omanhood. He has a religion from
1vhich his
hi:; "ifo and his da11gi1ll'r arc all debarred. They cannot hccomt .\l;bons. and the man li•1cls himsdf with a religion that has no
place for \1·0111a11lwod. The a n:rag<' man, nut to say ;\Iason. might well
hesitak a lung \\'hile before a1·1J1vi11g a religion for a single sex. That
>Ort of thing does not sound like genHine Freemasonry. It is also to
he noted that certain races of men ha\·c no place in this peculiar religion.
It is further to h{' remembered that no fortunate person of the single
sex can join thi.; peculiar church until he h;i:; pas'."ed his majority. It
is hnall.1 to be emphasized that only those can get into this church who
t'OIHC \\·ith ;; ccrtilicatc of gnnd character: in other words, it is a religion
without hnpc fnr those who han· fallen, unless they can pick themselves
up and make good.

GB.AND LOLlGI•~ Of<' C.\LIFOltXL\.

fiOJ

The reading· of the address will giYe no adequate notion
of the charm of its delivery. After the prolonged applause
had subsided it was on motion ordered that the Grand Secretary cause to be printed fiye thousand copies for distribution to the Lodges of the jurisdiction.

\\T

Hy the very 1L1tnrc oi thin;:s. F rcemasonry is not and cannot he
;1 uni1·crsal institution at the present time.
Its very existence and
t1sefolness depend upcn the union of picked men for the accomplishmellt
of delinitc purposes. ,\,; far as we can judge, that necessarily will exist
for gc1;,•rat1011s lo come•. Hut when any man thoughtleso:ly proclaims
that lie ha.-; m;Hlc Fn:em;i.-;onry a religion, he does two
: he
am1011ncc·s lo the· world hi:; sati-;faction with something Ycry narrow and
limitctl m the ll'ay of rdiginn, ;md he brings needless reproach upon the
Order in the eyes oi mrdli;icnt perso:1s hy giving unmerited opportunit,v
to npp<Hlclll;; of t 1Jc> Fraternity. Jt i.'i high time that a great silence fell
upon all suc'.1 f<lolish talk ah"ut the principles of Freemasonry bdng
acloptl'd as a religion and the Lodge being accepted as a suhstitutc for
1hc chmch. .\lasonry has a religions Hkal. hut it is not the ideal religion.
l lc1-c crnidh fl!ll' :1nm·al kssnn. The ideals of quality, knowledge
and religion h;11 c liccn hrnught tn f(·mcmhrancc hccause your speaker
considers th( m Pi prirnc impor tancc. They offer to this and all
Jnrisdicticns the grcatc·,;t "P(Hirlnnities of a<lYancemcnt in the years
to l'flllll'.
arc c0m111e11dcd !n all Fn'emasons who love the Order
and hclic1·c in its mission. .\nd while we may not realize our ideals.
c·ithl r as indi\'idu;1J:; or as institutiom. there can he no snch things
·111kss i'kab arc kept in dew anrl nur :tcth-itics mnyc in their dirc·ction.

'i
11

I-

REPORT OF ccnr:\IITTEE O.'\ J l'RISPRL~DEN'CE.
Past Grand :\laster v\' eller reported for the Committee
on Jurispruclence the following:
;

To the lv/.'. n·:. Gra11d Lodge of Co/1foruia:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under cm1sideration
the special dispensations issued by the Grand ]\[aster during the year
and also his approval of resolutions rclatin: to life memberships.
\Ve tilld that all of the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters ha\•e been in compliance with the requirements of our Constitution. V•/ e therefore recommend that the action of the Grand ;\faster
therein he approYed.

F. l\L .\NGELLOTTJ,
CHAS. L. PATTON.
]. D. l\kRPHEY,
DAX.\ REID WELLER,

w~r.

s. WELLs.
Committee.

The report was adopted.

REPORT OF CO::\L\fITTEE O\' RITUAL.
To th,, .u:. rr:. Gra11d Lodge of Califomia:
Your committee to whom was referred those portions of the Grand
]\[aster's Address relative to middle chamber colnmns and floor carpet,
and the nse of twelve Fellow Crafts, heg lean· to report as follows:
The Grand Master having been apprised that \Voodhridge Lodge
No. 131 was using· a wall cha rt iu place of the middle chamber columns
and floor carpet consisting of three, five and sevcn steps. which are
essential to the proper conferring of the second degree, ordered the
Lodge to secure the same. and it has not been done. \Ve therefore
present the following resolution and recmnmend its adoption :

. I

J

-----

503

PH.OCF.ET>INGS OF THE

R"soh:ed. That \Voodhridgc Lodge Xo. 131 is hereby ordered to
al once procnrc and u;;c middle cl1amhci- c"lnmns and a floor carpet
consisting of three, ii\'l· am! scn'n steps.
In order that the t1'C pf twell'C f<cl!ow Craft;.; \YO\tld he authorized.
it wonld Dccco:sitatc a diangc in the ritual, and as many of the smaller
Lodges conld 11ot prncurc the attendance of a sufficient number of members to comply with the
which wolll<l result in a lack of
nniformitl' of the work in the sc\'cral LodgTs, we fed that such change
slwuld n~t be made, and rcco111meml that no action be taken in regard

thereto.
DAN A RF.lll \VELLF.R,

T. J. BAKER,
Em\'ARn H. lLHtT,
Committee on Ritnal.

:\dopted as presented.

Increasing ;\ftiliation Fees:

Li1·c Oak :\o. 61. Fidelity :.:o. 120,

Y crha Bncna .'\o. 403.
Repealing .\tlilialion Fee-;:

:\lid way l'\o. 426.

:\laking .\t1iliation Fcc·s a Fkxihlc h'c:
No. 216.

Decreasig Dues:

Enterprise No. 70, lngkwoo1! :\o. 421.

Increasing Fees For Degrees: (;old Hill Xo. 32. Hornitos :\o. 98,
Pacilic No. 136. Lamcl Xn. 245, Lodi '\o. 256, Santa Paula Xo. 291,
Tcmescal Xo. 314. \Vcstlake No. 392.
Reducing Fcc·s: Occidental ?\o. 22, San Dirgn :\o. 35, Excelsior
?\o. 166, Orange Cn11·e Xo. 293. Valle de France Xo. 329, \V('st Gate
No. 335, Perris :\o. 411. Blackmer Xo. 442.
\Vi11llington :\n. 198.

Fixing Fees For Degrees:

The following Lodge' under disprnsatiun hal'C'
the Uniform Code (lf Hy-Laws: Colden \Vest, Kennett. Ramnn;1, Bethkhcrn,
HemT S. Orme, Crocker, RinThan k.

RE!'( lf\T { lF CO:\DlITTEE O:>J BY-L\ \\'S.
Bruther :\f. J. :\ewhm·g, Chairman of the Committee on
1\y-Laws. reported as follows:
To the Jl.'. rr:. Cra11d I.odge of Califomia:
Your Committee on Hy-Laws recomrnc11<l the approval by the
:\I.". \\T.". Grand ).faster tn amendments to the by-laws snbmitte<l by

The honks of by-la\\'S of these Lodges ban• been examin<'cl and
;ipproved by your committee.
In examining the hooks of hy-laws we llnd that they arc of \·arious
kinds and descriptions. and rccornmcncl that the Crancl Lodge. throngh
the Grand Secretary and Crane! :\faster, pro\'idc some standard form
of honk which wi11 he mon' snitahlc and uniform.
Respectfully submitted,

:\T. J.
J. A. Sro"E.
lln-m\' D.

the following LodgL's he conc11rred in:
Chanffino- Time of St:itcd "tvfectings: Tuolumne ;,:,), 8. Tcmpll'
'\o. 14. Golden I !ill ::\o. 3:?. []linoistown ::\n. 51, Suisun '\o. 55.
Amador Kn. 65. Sincerity :\n. 13:?. Abell '\o. 146. Redwood :\o. 168.
Conlldcncc Xo. 203, (~ranite ::\
222. Janws,·illc No. 232, Fresno :\o.
247, Hcspcrian Xo. 264. Orlarnl :\o. 265 .. \rroyo :\o. 274. Oakdak :\o.
275 ).lad era '\ o. 280, Snutlnnst :\o. 283. Elsinore :\ o. 289. Los Catos
Xo'. 292, 1\Iokelnmnc Hill :Jo. 289. Santa Lucia :\o. 302. '\orw:ilk :\o.
315, Sangc'r Xo. 316, !\lhamhra No. 322, Fullerton );o. 339, Buena Park
Ko. 357. Brawle\• :.:o. 402. Calexico :.:o. 412, .\rlingtn11 :\o. 414. Exl'tcr
;:-.Jo. 424, Pittsb;irg :\ o. 429, Coronado ); o. 441. La Puente :\ o. 4.:\6.
:\Tt. Diablo l\o. 448. San Pasr]t'al Ko. 452.
Increasing Dues: Tunh1m11c :'\n. 8. George \Vashin'-t!On Xo. 62.
Bear ).fonnta,in Xo. 76. Hornitos Xo. 98. Molino l'\o. 150. 'vVoodlan<l
Xo. 156, L:u1t't'l .'\o. 245. Pomona ?\o. 246. Tuscan :\". 261. Santa Pan!:t
'\o. 291, Lns Gatos :\o. 292, Rerkcky :\o. 363, Eagle Rod< "\11. 422.
Fixing :\ffiliation

Temcscal No. 314.

California ;..:,,, !. Doric

Suisun Nn. 55. Paso Rohh·s No. 286,

Committee.

The report was adopted.

TIL\01KS TO TRliSTE.ES OF JH):\JE.
Brother \\'alter J. Johnson introduced the following:
\VHERE,\S. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes oi California have been and are gi\-ing their unstinted anti
valuable services to the conduct and management of said Homes; and
\VnERE,\S, That service has been the means of pr01·iding pka~ant
;iml commodious quarters for worthy :llfason,: and their widows atl<]
orphans; therefore, be it

Rc.soh·cd, Th;ir the nwrnl1crs of Lhc Grand Lodge of California,
now in session. extend to the Board of Trustees their warmest and

;;04

GRAND LODGT~ OP' CALIFORNIA

most sinc,·r,· appreciation am! thanks for the scn·ic(·,.; they ha1·c ren·
dcn:cl; and be it fmthcr

Ncsoh·,·d, That these rcsoluti<ms J,,. ;;prcad npon tll<' minutes of
this Crand Lodge and that a copy be sent to each member of said
Board.

A.dopted

unanimous \'Ote.

505

REPORT OF CO:.\L\IITTEE 0:-\ ':\L\SO\'JC

EDUCATIOJ\'.
'fhe r'eport of the Special Committee 011 :d asonk Education was presented, as follows:
To the JI.'. rr:. Gra11d

of California:

The CommittcL' 011 ]\fasonic E1luratio11 app"intt'd by the ::'.If.'. \Y.'.

REPORT UF UllRARY Cff\l:\JlTTEE.
To the Jt.'. fl'.'. Grand Lodge of Califon11a:
Your Co1111111ttce 011 Library h('gs to report as follqws;
Our library is mnch in need of miscellaneous 1-Lisonic reading mat·
lcr, the princip:d hnoks now nn hand
the proceedings of other
jurisdictions.
Your comrnitkc has made an investigation of librarics of some of
the other jHrisdictioii,;, with reference to character and number of
books therein contained. a11<l thC' mNhod of their collection and arrangement.
Through our inn·:ztigalion we Inn· learned that the works on
l\Iasonry and ::'.llasnnic >nlijects arc yaricd and m1mcrous, and that to
establish a cnmpktc lil:ra ry wonl<l innlh·c consi(krahlc time, the ex pen·
diture of many !hoti:;arnl,; of dollars, the ntilization of much more space
than that 1ww (l(:cupicd hy our present lihrary, and better and more
co111ple!c facili1ic;; for arranging. cataloguing and handling the books.

\V c n-com111c•1Hl the immediate purchase of a reasonable m1mher of
Masonic hooks of 111iscdbncons reading; the list to he arranged hy the
incoming (~rand ::\l;"tcr and his lihrary committee.
The space in the ::\Iasonic Temple now deyoted to the use of the
library is sulfo:i,·nt for all present needs.
This con1111itte.· suggests that information. touching the needs of
onr library. he 'Jll'<:ad among the membership of this jurisdiction, to
thL· end that contrilmtions of hooks might he \'oluntarily made.
There io; nn g(Jod reason why this jurisdiction should not aim to
e:::tabli.sh a library n1ual in importance to the best
Respectiully submitted,
Enw1x L. FORSTER,
ERJC

J. SEGERSTROM,

CHAULJ's

P. LYNDALL,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

Grand l\Iaster to formulate plans for research and study. hcg lean: to
report as follows :
..\ fter thorough inn'stigation and card11l thought we ar<-· condnccd
that the utmost cmEidcration :ohoulcl he gi\'e!l to this important phase
of ou1· institution.
There is, as the .\! .'. \V.'. Gra11tl .\faster has well said. "a pro11011ncecl craving as well as necessity for additional i11for111atio11 and
lducation along the lines of the true spirit, purpose. philosophy anrl
destiny of .\fasonry-its relation to human life. its opportunity for true
service and its development of the social and fratern;il element in 111an's
make up."
::\fasonry ever should be (•ngagcd in the nHl><t intelligent search for
trnth and the most devoted service to humanity. No loftier mission
can merit our hest endeavor than a knowlcclgc of the fatherhood of
God and a correct ('Stimate m its hrn;1dcst sense of the Rrothcrhoocl
of .\fan.
Tncreas,,d efficiency in any line of human endeavor is a natural
sequence of a thorough understanding of fundamental principles. To
follow up ritualistic impressions with a study of the traditions, history,
literature, symbolism. and more particularly the philosophy and para.
mount purposes of our institution, will, without doubt, bring a clearer
perception of the relation of thi:o Fraternity to mankind in general.
It should be our amhition to souncl the depths of the teaching-s of
this institution and not rest content to merely skim the su dace. The
highest degree of intelligence should C\·cr he the constant aim of cwry
Mason. \Ve should know more of whence wc came. whither wc art.'
l;ouml, and of what we arc in search. Evidence of a decidedly convinc.
ing character bespeaks the awakening of the Fraternity along lines
educational througl10ut the length and breadth of this land. and thi;;
Grand Lodge should gi\'C· its enthusiastic support to such endeavor.
The study side of l\fasonry is attracting the well deserved attention of large numbers of onr brethren. The efforts of the Grand Lodge
of Iowa in this line of work desen·e
commendation. A year
ago, its lalldable endeavors culminated in the formation of what is
known as "The N'ational 1\fa;;onic Research Society." Tn the hricf

G06

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

peri()(l of nine months it has enrollee\ nine thousand I\Iasons. V crily,
this is a splendid trilmtc to the enthusiasm of the Craft, and proof
positive that there is in this country a substantial number of J\lasons
who do, indeed, yearn for "further light" and a clearer nnckrstamling
of things J\Iasonic. I ts members hail from c\·cry State in the Union
and also from clc\·cn foreign countries. The society states that its
members are constantly increasing and that the methods of its work
ha\·c been heartily appro\·ed by the Grand Lodges of other jurisdictions,
notably that of Indiana at it<; Communication a few weeks ago. The
recent report of the :1'\ational Masonic Research Society is full of
inspiration. Tt brings renewed hope an"tl courage to all who seek a
larger deyeJoprncnt in the cdticational work of our Fraternity. Tt
bespeaks a broadening of ihe confo1es and a wider horizon to our
l\Iasonic life.

Tn educational endeavor, haphazard methods can only em! in confused and discouraging results. The apparent need is a systematic
plan of instruction intelligently conceived am! faithfully carried out.
\V c should at once engage in the solution of this problem which so
well descn·cs our earnest attention.
In considering this subject, two distinct classes arc affected; first.
those who are now members of the Fraternity, and secondly, those who
~1rc yet to come.
Let us consider the first class. \Vhat practical course of instntction can be prepared which will lx· not only attractive and popular, but
will also co\·cr the essential features of our institution in an adequate
and convinci11g manner' Two methocb; arc suggested: One of these
is a well conslJTcted kctllrc course to bc given, not spasmodically. hnt
at regular and rather frequent intervals. The other method is to encourage the formation of Study Clubs. There could be a combination of
l:oth if so desired, where a discussion of the subject in hand might be
freely and fully inclnlgecl in. This plan could be made quite successful
Ly announcing the title of the lecture some time in advance and assigning to certain members for study ancl research the salient features bearing on the subject in question.

In some localities it is possible to secure Masonic lecturers who
ha\·c mack profound rcscarch. Such men bring t\Jc results of ripe
:;ciwlarship for thc consideration of the Craft, ancl for such the clemancl
is exceedingly grcat. The far-reaching influence of a course of lecttucs cannot he o\·erestimatccl. Tt is earnestly 110ped that this feature
\\'ill be fosll'red and !llecl with general encouragement throughout our
j nrisdiction.
A rather perpkxing situation confronts the localities where it is
nflC'n diffirnlt or illlpossiblc 1o sccnrc Masonic speakers of real ability;
IlH'll who 11an' a message teeming with life giving impulses.
To soln·

I

r-

urU.ND LOJJGl•c OF C.\LIFOltNL\

[)()/

this problem we would su.l.!·gcst that a 1111111lwr of kcturcs 011 designated
,.uhjccts he prepared hy hrdhren who ;ire \\Tll qualified to dischar<>T
c.uch a service ;111d that tweln· "f the hesl kctures "' sulmiittcd J;e
chosen for thc ensuing year. These lectures to he printed ll\· the Grand
Lodge and one copy sent each month gratis to l'\Try Lodge. in this jurisdiction. In lieu oi a speaker, st·ch lecture can he rcad by some capable member. The subject can afterward he thoroughly c\iscussecl, thus
forming the basis of prolitahk instruction and gi\·ing impetus to inclividual research and study.

Tn time n·ery Lodge will ha 1·e its nucleus of :\I a sonic students. In
Se\·cral Eastern jurisdictions thc Study Club plan has met with great
rnccess and there is c\·cry reason to helic\·e it will pnwc just as successful in the jurisdiction of which \\T ha\·c the honor to be members.
As this work progresses new talent will be developed, am! in time
we shall number among our brethren mam· who will be fulh· competent to give to the Craft the results of . thcir research an;\ careful
thought.
· Let us now consider the second class. those to whom it is our cluh·
to gi\·e the best that is iE us. They should he deeply impressed witi1
the larger obligations of this Fratnnity at a time when their mincls arc
in a most plastic conclitio11. lTnfortunatcly. many of our brethren pass
through the degrees of onr Fraternity without obtaining the slightest
idea of the underlying spiritual ancl philosophical truths. Their mimls
(for many natural reasom) arc not attuned to that character of thinking and without guidance the result is either confusion or a reserved
contempt about things which conqitutc the \·en· soul of our institution
where rather there should he clear light and rC.\Tt-cnt appreciation.
'
How shall we correct this unfortunate condition?
A ten-minute taik along vital. dynamic lines, after the conferring
of the degrees. will work wonders. In addition to esoteric instruction
he should receive something of the cxoteric during the period in which
he is receiving his degrees.
A series of three prinkd lectures woulcl help mightily along this
line, such lectures to he gi\·en the candiclate after he has receivccl each
of the se\·eral degrees. l I e slrnulcl be rec1ucstcd to gi\·c these lectures
his careful attention. i I e \\·ill thus at the outset be impressed with the
absolute fact that this splendid institution is, indeed, potent in this
world's affairs. Tlc will see that, coming down the long vista of years,
it has brought with it a vital interest in the commanding issues of the
Present.
Surely such an influence wiil go far to arouse his admiration and
incite his enthusiasm for this ancient ancl honorable Fraternity.
In summing up this report we submit the following points for consideration:

508

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNL\.

l'HOCE:Ell!NGS OF THE:

Fi1·st: That a Committee on .\[asonic Education consisting r>i thH'l'
members lw appointt•d ln· the 1\1.'. \V.'. Cram! Tl laster to st:rn• fo1· the
ensuing year. That it shall he the dnly of this committee to l'xcrcise
a hclpfttl inlhwncc toward all Lodges who desire their counsel arnl
advice. That this cornmittc,· :;hall foster and encourage thronghont
this jurisdiction the study and research of :\Tasonic tradition, history,
litcratnre, law.
and dominant pnrposc,; of this institi-tion.

without recommendation on the ground that it was a matter
purely of policy. A.fter discussion the Crand Lodge appron.•(1 the res~)lution and amended section 83 of the Constitution by unanimous vote.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Friday morning.

S<:cornl: Th;1! a series of lectures to he r,·ad in our Lodges, at
slated intervals, shall he prepared under the direction of snch committee. Such lectures to he snhmitted to the :\[.'. \V.'. Crand :\laster
for his appnl\·al and afterward printed. One lcctun: to he mailed each
month to c\·cry Lodge in this jurisdiction.

Third: That a snics of three kct11res be prep;1n·d under the di rec-·
tion of the Committee on :\Iasonic Education. along cxotcric line:<,
«ppropriate re-;pc·ctin:-ly to the E. A., F. C. and 111. :\L degrees. Such
h:ct11res to be Jirst approved by the M. ·. \V . ·.Grand :\laster and afterward printed. These lectures to be placed in the candidate's hands
after he has n.·cein·d each Llcgrce. The kctrrcs to he sold to the
Lodges dc:oiring them.

That the formation of Study Cluhs be encouraged and
that this feature of the work follow a systematic a111l c:trdully conFonrth:

<'ci l'l'd plan.

The ahove rcprcsrnts our present lkductions.

\Ve believe, howthat further consideration is dc,;irablc to obtain the opinions ;:md
wishes 011 this important snhjl'cl of the mcmhcrs of the Fraternity
thrn111-d1ont this jurisdiction.
Respectfully submitted.

C\'CI",

JR\'l NG ). :\J l'l'CHELL,
ALF1u:o \\'. IlL:sH,
JOHN

\Vmcm·:R,

50!1

3Ju "rauh 14nhge
Friday, October Li. J<J1.~.
Morning Session.
The Grand Loclge was called on at 10 u"dock the c;ran<l
,:\faster presiding·.
The minutes of yesterday's sesSHllb were read and
approved.
The Grand :\laster appointed Joseph IT. Stephens as a
member of the Finance Committee, to fill the vacancy
caused hy the ahsenee of Ralph Lowe.

The Grand Secretary presented the following proposed
amendment to the Constitution, increasing the number of
memhers of the Committee on Jurisprudence:

Committee.

On motion of Past l~rand ,:\faster Henderson the report
wa;-; appnl\·ed, except the second and third recommendations,
which were referred to the Finance Cornrnittee.

Regarding the resolution of Brothers .Bean and Sherman
to amend
83 of the Constitution so as to relieYc
Boards of Relief from the necessity of collecting a per
capita tax of eight cents from the Lodges com posing such
Boanls, the Committee on Jurisprudence reported it hack

Re.wlc"·d, That >"L'Clion 28 of the Constitulion lie amemkd to rear!
as follows:
SL'.c. 28. The
Standing Committt'l'S shall also he appointed
the Grand J\[a;;tl'r at the close of each Annual Communication, just heforc the closC', \'iz.: On Financ't':<. 011 .\ccounts, on Gric,·<,nces, on Corn:sptrndence, on Returns, on Pay of {II em hers. on Cre·
dentials and 011 Library. to com isl of fi\·c mcmh..:r' each: and 011 J11rioprudc11ce, to consist of SL'n·n 111e111hcrs: tlw dul ies oi which ,·nmmittcc·;;
shall continue dnring th" )'L'<tr tlwn·nftcr, and ,;hall ce:h. al thl' rlo,;e
of the nn;t sltl'Cl'l'(ling :\nnual l\m1n11111katin11.

This was referred tn the Committee on Jurisprnde11cc,
and was reported hack by l'ast Grand iraster f..f urphey

511

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORXIA

iilO

with the observation that it was primarily for the (~raJ1(!
Lodge to decide. Thereupon the Grand Lodne hv unani111011s vote declared the resolution adopted a1~l s;ction 28
amended as proposed.

REPORT OF CO:\l :\!ITTEE 0:\ GRIEV.\:\CES.

yerscd. and that the accmed be and he is hercl>y suspemled irorn the
righb ;111d pn1·ilegcs of Masonry.
\V_11.TJ(R F. ll.\.1s,

i!

C1L1;:. ALnr'RT 1\n.1~ts.

C1,tnna.: L Jo:-;1;s.
Committee.

The report was adopted and the brother ordered suspended from all the rights and priYileg-es of :.\fasonry.

Brother Y\Talter F. Haas. for the Committee nn Crie\·ances, presented the following report:
To the JJ.". T/'.". (;rand Lodge of Ca/iforni,1:
Your commiltcl'. in \\'horn was rdcrred !rial record Xo. 175. rqi<irts
:cs follows:
ln this case the accnscd \\·as charged by his Lodge with unmasonic
conduct as
forth in certain spccitications chargiiw him with ha,·inn
nn the 8th clay of January. 1909. lmrrowcd from l.1is "Loclgc the sl'm c;f
$250 nnckr a plc;i that the accused was suffering from a malach' which
might result in co1Ftm1p1ic>11. and did not han· the nccessan• funds to
treat for snch malad>·, am: that he wonld pledge his word a~ a '\fason
and his l1011or as
man tn repay this mr;ncy to the Lodge if he rccO\"ercd his health and was ahl" to cam money again, am! that the accusNl
had n:'Cm-er('(\ his health and had earned .'1111icient tnOllc\- out of which
to repay the Lodge at kast in part. hut that t!Jc accused had not kept.
nor shown the Jc;1st inclination tn keep. his word of honor and his word
as a .\fason, gin'n at the time the loan was made to him_
The commis,-ion hy 11nanirnous nJte fonnd the accused gnilty of all
the cl1arges set f(lrth in the specifications and a verdict of guilty was
rendered on each of tlwm. lm1 by a YOte of ;;;ix to three a \·crdict of
not guilty was rendered on the charge of t111masonic co11clt1ct. From
this wrclict and decision the Lod.g·e appeals.
Tlw sole qncstion to be (]ctermincd by this com111itke is, did the
:pecificaticns charge a }fasonic offense? The committee is of the opinHlll that they did.
One of the oliligations of a T\fason is. that he shall
not che,1t, wrong or defraud a Brother :ITason, or a T\fasonic Lodge.
Tf we take as trnc the findings of the commissioners that the char~cs
contained in the speciiica1 ions \Ytre rnffici('ntly pr0Yc1i. then the same
constitutes a finding that the• accnsc<l was gnilty of wronging his Lodge
and was guilty "f 1mmasonic coJHlt'cL
\Ve thcrcfo1T offer the fotlowi11g rc·snlutio11:
f?,·so/;-:·d. That the n•rdict a1v 1 dcci,-ion. :111,J the ac1i1:11 of the Lodge

1hcrco11. i11 the trial r;·rnnl >Jc. lij he. and the sam~ hcrel>y arc re-

i

,jl

l·

PEACE PROPOSALS.
l'a;;t Grand :.\laster '.\Inrphey, for the Committee
J urispn1cl<;:nce, reported as follows:

j
I

lJll

To the]/.". W.". Grand Lodg,· of California:
There has hccn submitted for our consicleration rc:;olntinns and
a very forceful arnl eloquent appeal in support thereof hy Brother
Joseph H. Fussell, of San Diego Lodge "\o. 35, wherein this Grand
Lodge i:o requested to appeal to the r11lers aml governmcnb of the
warring nations of E1unpc. to callse a halt in the war. in nrclcr that
a peace confrrcncc may i>c held in the Peace Palace at The Hague for
the purpose of prndding a11 cndnring peat'C.
\Yhilc we arc in hearty accord with any 1110\TlllCllt or suggestion
that has for its purpose the fornmlation of plans to tcnnim1 tc the
frightful struggle that i_, destroying the Yitai and material forces of
the nations of Europe. we are of the opinion that such appeals as an·
here proposed are ineffectual, and merely serve the purpose nf formally
expressing the well-known nniversal sentiment of our people.
\Ve therefore n•commend that no action he taken 011 this proposed
resolution.

The recommendation was concurred m.

THA:\KS TO BROTHER JESSE M. WHITED.
Brothers Lyle \V. Rncker and C. E. :.\fead introduced
the following:
\VHJ<'.Rl·'..l:i. Sumc time during the n:ar 1915. m1<lcr the atbpiccs of
the San Francisco Bodies Nu. I ,'\. & :\. S. R. :'lfasons, a dramatic
tragedy rntitkd ''The Legend of the Temple," was produced by
Brother Jesse ,\I. \Vhited, Senior \Varrlcn of California Lodge Xo. 1,

iil2

PROCEEIJINGS 01'' 'l'HE

and performed by nwmlwrs of the .\. & A. S. R. .\fasuns i11 the presence
of our .\L'. \\':. Cral1(1 .\last<:r; and
\VnlcRE.\:<. The sanw having been of such high quality as tu greatly

impress our .\.lr"t \Vorshipful Grand /.laster. thereby causing him to
request its reproduction before the Grand Lodge; and
\VHJ-:RE.\S, The said dramatic tragedy was reproduced before the
Cram! Lodge on the magnilicent stage of the Scottish Rite Temple. 011
Thursday. October 14. 1915. and the same had11g so fal'<>rahh· i111pressccl the meml;er.< of this Crane! Lodge; therefore he it
.

Rcsoh:cd. That the Crand Ledge of California extend to Broth('r
Jesse .\!. \Vhited and those in any way assisting him in the production
of that immorta I tragedy. ''The Ll•gend of the Temple," its most pro·
found appreciation and gratitnd<' for the opportunity thn:> provided its
members lo \\'itncss this inspiring production as taken from the second
section of the third degree; and be it further
Rcsoi'1'cd, That a copy of these resolutions he spn•ad upon the
minutes of this Grand Lodge. and also a copy transmitted to Brother
Jesse ;\J. \Vhitcd and tlw Scottish Rite Bodies '\o. I of San franci;;co.

.\ dopted by 1111anin10us vote.

A.\IE:\D.\IE:\T TO CO~STITL7TIOX.

Past Grand .\faster Patton, for the Committee on Juris-·
pn1dence, reported as follows:
To the .u:. ir:. Cra11d Lodge of California:

Your Committt'e has had under consideration the µroposcd amendment to section 161 of the Constitution. proposed by Past Grand 'tllaster
Henderson, and we can see no objection to its adoption. if the Grand
Lodge so desires. It reads as follows:
16lc. Rcsoh't•d. Tliat a receipt for dues. under the seal of the
Lodge. in the option of a Lodge of this jurisdiction. m;ff he recein·cl
as a certificate of standing. under section 161 of the Co1;stit11tion.

The resolution was 1111animously adopted.

REJ'ORT UF t«).\L\llTTE[~ 0:\ CIL\RTERS.
Brother J Claude Perry, Chairman of the Committee on
Charters, presented the following report:

GHANlJ LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

513

To the Ji:. iv:. Grand Lodg,· of Califumia:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the application of the
Yarious Lodges umh·r clispl'nsation during the past .\Iasonic year. beg
leave to submit the following report:
The M. ·. \V. ·. Gram! 'tlfastcr. after due invc;;tigation, and guided
11v the advice and reputation of the brethren in the immediate vicinity
o.f the Lod'ges below mentioned, has been pleased to issue di;;pensations
for the formation of seven new Lodges as follows:
Bethlehem Lodge, San Francisco, Dcccmhcr 25, 1914;
Crocker Lodge. Daly City, San :\laten Connty. February 28, 1915;
Rh·erbank Lodge, Rh·erhank. Stanislaus County. :\Iarch .24. 1915:
Golden \Vest Lodge, San Francisco, April 21, 1915;
Kennett Lodge, Kennett, Shasta County, ::\lay 1.2, 1915;
Ramona Lotlge, Alhambra. Los Angeles County, May 26, 1915;
Henry S. Orme Lodge, Los Angeles, Los Angeles County. August
6. 1915.
Your Committee having most carefully examined the rl'cord;;,
hooks and other documents submitted, together with personal interdews with the representatives of the Loclges in question and such
other brethren as the committee has seen lit to call llpon, llnd the
records. with but a kw minor exceptions. correct and kept in 'neat
and orderly manner; we therefore most cheerfully recommend that
cha rte rs be granted to the following Lodges, to be nmnhcrcd as noted:
Bethlehem Lodge !\ o. 453, San Francisco;
Crocker Lodge No. 454, Daly City, San Mateo County;
Golden v\;est Lodge No. 455, San Francisco;
Kennett Lodge No. 456, Kennett, Shasta County;
Ramona Lodge Xo. 457, Alhambra, Los Angeles County.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458, Los Angeles. Los Angeles County.
Your committee also recommends that a charter be granted to
Riverbank Lodge to be numbered 459, prodded that the brethren of
said Lodge, by donations, contrihutc a sum not less than $300.00 to
meet outstanding notes of $300 due the bank and which stand against
the Lodge. Your ·committee feels that there is a real need for a Lodge
at Riverbank, it being a town of some 1200 inhahitants. with a field
around it where the light of Masonry might be diffused with profit
and honor. The twenty-one brethren who organized this Lodge seem
to have been advised in error as to the proper arrangement of financl!s,
else this portion of the req1~e-;t would not ha1·c become apparent to this
committee.

515

GJ-L\Nl l LODG.ID OF CALH<'Ol{NJA

\\'ith n:ganl to the· comolidatiou of Fowkr Lodge 'No. 398 with
Sclm;i Lodge X o. 277. yonr crnnmittrc, after cx:1111i11ing the records am\
papers snhmit:cd. llnd that the proceedings tlwrein ha\·c bcrn as required hy our Constitution. and recommend that the consolidation he
cmKnnerl in hy this Grand

Respectfully submitted.
]. Cuunr. PERRY,
DE:'<l':IL\N G. \V.\GsT.\FF,
\V. W. ALLEN.

]. H. WJLSON.
S. R. FoRCl:,
Committee.

The report was adopted, charters ordered to be issued
in accordance therewith, and the consolidation of Fowler
Lodge Xo. 398 and Selma Lodge ::\o. 277 was confirmed,
the consolidated Lodge to be known as Selma Lodge No

277.

Horace V, Ley, Grand Sword Bearer, Fort Jon<'s ................... ..
John P. Jarman, Grand Bible f:C'arcr, San Jose ......
Joseph I-L Stephens, Junior Crarnl Dc:acon. Sacramento ...
Major S. Cook, Senior Grand Steward, El Centro .... .
Clarence A. Berry, Jt111ior Grand Steward, Glencoe .. ..
('harks FL Ritchie, Grand Pnrsuh·ant, Ocean Park .......... __

31.90
2.80
6.00

52.20
14.00
35]0

.$ 365.23

Total
PAST GRAND MAS'l'F,RS.

21.70
5.90
520
35.70
35.70
24.00
.20

\Villiam T. Lncas. Santa
Thomas Flint, Hollister -·
............... _.................. ---Orrin S. Henderson, Stockton., ............................ --.. ···-·
I1fotlcy H. Flint, Los Angeles ..................... .
Dana R. \Veller, L,os Angeles ..... ..
Alonzo J. Monroe, Eureka ...... ,
John D. '.\Iurphey, Berkclev....
.. ................ .

128.40

Total
CHAlHMEN OF S'i'ANDlNC CO~HllTTFJ'S.

REPORT OF COJ\DfITTEE ON p,\ Y OF :\[K\fBERS.
Brother Dradforcl \\'ehster. Chairman of the Committee
on Pay of :\T embers, presente(l the following report:
To the M.'. W.« Grand l.odf.!.,' of California:
Your committee, charged with the duty of asc<:rtaining the cmt of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and rel urn, and of
reporting snch cost of transportation as the sum due to the officers
or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers. Past Grand '.\fasters, Chairmen of Standing Committees, am!
Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure for transportation to and
from the Grand Lodge, report that they have· cardully discharge(\
tlint <lu1y, and snhmit tl1c following staknwnt.
GRAND OFIIJCEHS.

Benjamin F. Hk,\sue, \;rand 'Master, Los Augcles ...... , ___ .... _......S
,\Jhert G. Burnett. D(•pnty Grand :\faster, Sacramento
\V. Rhodes lfrr,-ey, Junior Grand \Varden. Los Augcks
Jf>hn H. 1launa, Grand Chaplain. Colton .............. ..
'.\Iatt S. l lughcs, Grand
Pasadena
\Villiam KettmT. Grand '.\farshal. San Diego
Dadd ]. Ree-;c, Grand Standnrd Bearer, Vemura __

-------···-------- -----

35.70

6.00
35-70
35]0
35.70
44.15

29.70

.... $

35.70

Trnstom R. Dinsmore, First District, Eureka .... __ ...................... $
Gust;iv A. Hntaff, Fourth District, Dunsmuir
Henry G. Hill, Fifth District,
Charles S. Baldwin, Sixth District, Alturas .. _
\\'ilia rd Clark, Seventh District, Orland ................... _................ Samuel S. Crow. Eighth District, Lassen
James F. Colley, Twelfth District, Nevada City ..
::\1. David Lininger, Thirteenth District, Auburn
Charles 0. Hamilton, Fourteenth District. Oroville.
Lewis R \Vilcoxon, Fifteenth District, '!\farysville.
George H. Simmons, Sixteenth District, \Villiams._
Shafter :\fathcws. Sc1·e11tcenth
Lakeport
Robert L. Robertson, Xineteenth District, Vallejo ..
). Frank Morgau, Twentieth
Sacramento..
l:layes H. Gahk, Twenty-first District, Woodland
Louis A. Reeg, Twenty-second
Placerville .. -.... ,............... .
James R Dye, Twenty-third District, Jackson ..... --....
Frederick \V. Clough, Twenty-fourth District, Angels Camp.---·-\Villiam T. Thomayer, Twenty-fifth District, Lodi.. ................. -.. -JoJrn H. -J\Iurray, Twenty-seventh District, Cordelia .................. ..

24.00
17.80

Jimmie X. Hall, Alhambra, Credentials ..
INSPECTORS.

18.50

40.90
14.00
34.40

13.10
8.00

990
8,05

8.40
11.50
2.10
6.00
5.80
10.40
l0.20
14.00
5.50
3.10

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

516

fil 7

PHOCEKI )lKGS Ol•' THJ<;

\Villiam J. Garibaldi, Twenty-eighth District, Oakland __
Ccorge F. Rodden, Thirty-!ifth Dh;tri<:t, San R1fael _______________ .......
Charles G. Landsclwit, Thirty-sixth District, Redwood City
Charles K. Tuttle. Thirty-eighth District, Pacii'1c Gron::
A. C. H. Kylberg, Thirty-ninth District, ,\krccd ____ _
Joseph E. Place, Fortieth District, Los Banos .. __ __
I. 0. Clark, Forty-first District, Bishop ______ __
.\rclie L. Smith, Forty-second District. Fresno __
John L . .\litchell, Forty-third District, Selma ______________________ __
Frank .\. Ellsworth, Forty-fourth District, Tulare
Richard E. Shore, Forty-fifth District, Lemoore----------------------_-\rthur S. Crites, Forty-sixth District, Bakersfield
John H. Bean, Forty--ninth District, Los Angeles ________________ _
Samuel E. Burke, Fiftieth District, Los Angeles ______ _
Edward B. Spencer, Fifty-first District, Los .-\ngcks .. _
noJ,ie E. Dill, Fifty-second District, Los Angdes
\Vinfred J. Sanborn, Fifty-third District, Los Angeles ....
Lemuel L. Test, Fifty-fourth District, Los Angeles
William .\. Vandegrift, Fifty-fifth District, Pomona
Lee C. Sawin, Fifty-seventh District, Whittier____
__ __ .... ________ _
Clark IL Shaw, Fifty-eighth District, Long Beach----------------------·
Eli B. Trago, Fifty-ninth District, Santa :\na__ __________ _
\,Valter B. Howes, Sixtieth District. San Bernardino
I [enry D. French, Sixty-first District, Riverside
Egbert C. Bangs, Sixty-second District, San
]. Stewart Ross, Sixty--third District, El Centro ________________ __
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angele•,; _______________________ __
Total

.20

.70
1.80
7.00
8.90
8.30
55.10
15.60
16.70
18.30
17.70
23.40
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.90
36.50
35.70
35.70
35.70
44.15
49.20
35.70

997.80
Rf.CAPITULATION.

l{epresentati1·es of Lodges____
---------------- __________________ ....$6.504.00
For Grand Officers -------------.................. -------------- ...... _
365.25
l."or Past Crand l\Iaskrs ________________ _
128.40
For Chairman of Standing Committees
35.70
For l 11s1wctors
_____________ ,, ________________ _
997.80
"'!."or

Gra ml total
''For items, sec pages 434-443.
\Ve therdorc offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
ffrsol<·cd, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of
the· St;1tc of California for the cnrrc11t fiscal year. in addition to the
dm·c: )irc,ci-ihcd by the C()nstitntion. the sum
15 cents for each

1i

member bnrnc upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual
reports_ Said Jc,-y shall he for the payment of Representatin's, Grant\
Officns, Past Crantl ]\[asters, and lns11ccton;, and shall he paid at the
.'amc time and in the manner prescribed for the paymn1t of the annual
dues.
BRAm'ORD vVEllSTEH.

lf. D. KF.RCHEV.\'L,
HuGH K l\fcKi:nrT,
J. !\. STONE,
Committee.

The report was adopted as presented.

REPORT OF CO:\Il\IITTEE 0:-J REPORT OF
GRAND LECTURER
Brother Benjamin Kraus, for the committee to which
had heen referred the report of the Grand Lecturer, reported
as follows:
To the M.". Ti'.'. Crmid l,odgc of California:

Your committee. to whom was referred the annual report of tlH'
V.". \V.". Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer. has the honor to report
as follows:

Tt is with the utmost gratification that your committee has noted,
not only through the persual of the Grand Lecturer's report. hut from
personal knowledge, that he has traversed the length and breadth of thi:;
Grand Jurisdiction since the date of the last Annual Communication.
imparting to all a knowledge of the ritualistic work and assisting them
materially in their desire to perfect themsch-es. the better to enable
them to confer the degrees in a manner most impressive to the recipients
thereof; for while it is trne that Masonry does not consist wholly of
the conferring of degrees, still it is known that the impressions received
by the candidate from the work and the manner in which it is done
are indelibly imprinted on the mind and form the groundwork of his
career in Masonry.
In reference to that portion of the Crancl Lecturer's report in
which he makes the suggestion that tlie Inspectors he furnished with
writing material. with the name and the district which they reprC'scnt
printed thereon, we heartily appron: of the same and recommend that
it be granted, as we feel that communications from Inspectors should
have an official heading.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

518
\Ye especially commend the report of the Grand Lecturer and
express the belief that in no small degree has the success of our ;fforts
in the past year been attribut;1hlc to him.
Respect folly submitted,
BENJ. KRAUS,

T.

z. MCMURRAY,

}AMES RAMSEY,

Committee.

The report was adopted, excepting that part referring
to writing material for Inspectors. \\"hie h was referred to
the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF co:-DfITTEE ON FINANCE.
Brother George F. Rodden, Chairman of the Committee
on Finance, presented the general report of that committee,
as follows:
To the J[. · · W. ·. Gra11d Lodge of California:

Yom Committee on Finance begs leave to report as follows:
\ Vc have received and considered the reports of the Boards of
Relief of San Francisco. Los i\ngelcs, San Diego, Oakland, San Jose,
and IJonolulu. and offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Rcsoh•cd. That the sum of $11.845.48 be and the same is hcrchv
appropriated from the fonds of this Grand Lodge to be divided a.s
follows:

...........$2,635.48
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco
7.500.00
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles
1,500.00
To the Board of Relief of San Diego
.............................................. 210.m
To till' Board of Relief of Oakland

\Ve ha\·e also hacl under consideration the matter of salaries for
tlw Grand Officer,; arn\ beg kan· to report thereon as follows, and make
the following recolllllll't1datio11':

I

l

60.00
The salary of the (~ram\ Organist
125.00
The salary oi thl' Cram\ Tyler ..
For the scn·iccs of the Chairman of the Committee on Corre200.00
spondence .....
.........................
................ .
For contingent expenses of the Grand '.\faster, to he used in
defraying actual L'xpenscs incurrc<l by him 111 the perform1,200.00
ance of his duties ....................................... .
3.000.00
The salary of the Crane\ Lecturer..
As it is impossible to kno\\" the exact amount of the contingent
expenses of the Grand Lecturer, the committee recommends that the
Crand Lecturer file with the Grand Secretary an itemized account of
his actual expenses inrnrrecl in the clischargc of his duties. and that
when said account has been audited hy the Committee on Accounts that
it he paid as other accounts arc paid.

Adopted.
Rcsoh•cd, That our J\I. ·. \V. ·. Crane\ :\faster, llenjamin F. 11k<boe.
be 1-cque;;tecl to o-it for his portrait clone in oil. and that. \vhen linisheel.
the V. ·. \\'. ·. Crane\ Secretary have the same suitably framed aIHI
placed with the portraits of otlwr Past Crarnl Masters in the '.\fasonic
Tempie of this city.

The lloarcl of Rclid of San Diego, finding it impossible to properly conduct its affair-: with the small balance in its treasury, on
:\ugust 9, 1915. made application to onr J\I.'. vV.'. Crand J\faster for a
special grant of $500.00. Cram\ Master Bledsoe, after a careful examination by correspondence and reports, apprm·ec\ the request and caused
a warrant to he drawn in favor of foe San Diego Boarcl of Relief for
the amount.
\V c therefore offer the following resolution and rccommencl its
adoption:
Rcsoh-cd, That the action of the 1\I. ·. \\'. ·. Grarnl J\Iastcr in granting a special fond of $500.00 to the San Diego Board of Relief be arnl
the same is hereby ratified and approved.

Adopted.

The "ilary of the Cram\ Trea,;urn .
The salary of the (;ram\ Secretary
The qJary of the Assistant Crand Secretary

519

. $ 200.m
3,600.00
2,100.00

'
Your committee has examined the documentary cviclencc: offert•d
111 support of the claim of :\shlar Lodge ='Jo. 306 for a refund of $2.45:
i:. appearing that when they rcmittecl their Crarnl LoLlge clues for the

PHOCEETJI:\'GS OF THE
taL\Nll LODGI•: OF CALIFOrtNfA

year 1914, they i11a<lycrtently included payme11i for 011e memhcr who
had prcdon;;Jy dimit led. \V c therefore offer the following resolution:
That .\shbr Lodge Xo. 306 be rcimlmrscd in the sum
nf

Adopted.
\\'c kll'c rcccin~<l and carefully examined a ,,oJnminons correspomlcncc between Reading Lodge No. 254 and nlue Ridge Lodge No.
41 I of Bl11c Ridge, Georgia; also hctwc·cn the Grand Mastcr and Grand
Sccrctaric>s of the rc.<pccii\c juri:;dictions. hadng to do with a claim
l1y Reading Lodge against Blue Ri<lgc Lodge for the sum of $50.00,
an amm111t. advanced by the former Lodge in aid of a memher of the
lattC'r.
The brother ;1ssistcd w;is :;eriously ill and prompt aid was mandaHis home Lodge was immediately commnnicatcd with and an
effort made t•' learn its wis!JC's. But the telegram was responded to by
a long delayed letter, asking idonnation as to the physical condition
of tlw hrotlwr. and al,o complaining that they had loaned him $35.00
'0111(' time ago which had never hccn repaid; hut stating that they would
lK· ,glad to do what they co111<1 for the brother. The correspondence
indicates that Reading
has ma<lc CYcry effort for rcimbnrsemcnt
\\'itlwut 'llCCCSS,

tnn·.

521

It appc:1rs that the .\fasonic llnilding of that city was practically deslrnycd by the visitation of a severe carthquake; that prior to it;;
destruction, it was, financially s1waking, more than satisfactory; that
there is every reason to hclieve that if the hnilding is relmilt, that
condition will maintain.
The Association offers as c.ccnrity for the req11csted loan one note
of the Association, maturing in six years and hearing intere;;t at the
rate of six per cent per ;rnnurn, payable annually, together with the
notes of individual stockholders of the .'\ssociation, aggregating the
sum of $5,500.00.
\Vhile your committee is firmly uf the opinion that lending money
of the Grand I,mJg,: under normal conditions would be had policy, am]
while we ha\'C no <lcsire to establish a precedent, and would not han~
our recommendation construed as such. still in view of thC' fact that the
<k>:tn1ction of the temple at El Centro was an act oi Cod and could
uot be forcsC'cn or prt vented, we off,•r the following resolution and
recommend it; adoption:

Rcsoh·cd, That the st?rn of $5.000 he loaned from the treasury oi
the Grand Lodge of California to the .\lasonic Building Association
of El Centro, under the conditions as :;ct forth in th(' resnlntion pro1·idi11g for the snmc'.

Adopted.

\Ve therefore offrr the following resolution and recommend its
;,dopl ion :

lfrsoh'cd. That tlh: sum of $50.00 he pahl to Reading Lodge X o.

254. to rcimlmrsc it for rnonc·y;; expended 011 hchali of Brother John
Curti;; of Dluc RidgT Lodge ::\o. 411. of Rine-Ridge, Ga.

.\doptcd.
Your committee has considered the claim of Oak Grove Lodgt· No.
215. a1110tmti11g lo $95.00. expended hy that L()(lgc for the fnncral of
'.lirs. T,. Lyon. the whln11· of a dirnittcd Mason.
\Ve thcrdorc offer the following resolution:

N,·soh·,,d. Th:1t Oak Grn1·c Loclg·c No. 215 he rcimbtl!'sed in the
s11111

of

the amount cxpcndcd for the funeral of :Mrs. L. Lyom'.

Your Financ'e Cumrnittcc h:"; given gran:: consitleration to the
rc,,;.,]11:i"11 wLid1 carrictl ;: rcque-;t that this Grand Lodge shonld lend
tn tile .\fa,;«nic l\nilding ;\:isociation of El Centro, the sum oi $5,000.

Yonr committn· has also had under consideration the corre ..;pondrnce hctween King- Da1·id's Lodge So. 209 and lclonsatonic Lodge .:\o.
(Jl of Canaan, Connecticut, together with (Tidence of our Grand :i\Iaster's
unremitting efforts in urging a claim of $450.00 which King David\
Lodge held against Housatonic Lodge .
King David's Lodge rendered aid and assistance to a sick and
partially demented member of Housatonic Lodge. His condition was
such that it necessitated hospital,;, doctor:;, 11ursc,; and even attendants oftentimes. These were provided, and, according to King Da1·id's
understanding, under the authority of Iloesatonic Lodge.
Ilousatonic Lodge denies that so extensive an authority was intended or conveyed, notwithstanding an admonition in on<' of their
\arly letters to treat the afflicted one
if he was their own member.
This provided a misinterpretation, which can nnt rightly be charged
against anyone; but nen:rthekss, it impresses upon us the conviction
that 110 Lodge should spend ;my considerable amount of money 011
behalf of a member of another Lodge without first laking proper precautions lo c4ah1ish a sane business understanding.
I fowever, the basic facts remain: neither subordinate Lodge can
afford the expense, and in that there arc debts which h;1 n: Jong re-

PHOCEJCllTXUS OF '1'11!·~

Gtt.\.KIJ LODGE OF CALIFORNU.

nrninc·d trnpaid, ;111<l the good name of the Fratcrnit,· is at slake, ,,.e
offer !he following n·~'<1luti1111:

rng for an amc11d1rn:nt to the Constitution which would rcst1lt in a

Thal the s\7111 "f $~50.0D he paid lo King Da,·id';; Lodge
Xu. 209, as reimlmrscmcnl for mo1H:ys spent and for the payment of
outstanding dehb created during the illness of and on behalf of
Drothcr Wright of Hn11sat·111ic Lodge No. 61 of Canaan, Connccticnt

Adopted.
Your committee has gi\'C'n considc•ration to the claim of the Oakland _jfasonic Doard of Relief, the a111ou11t
$2,163.02. moneys cxpcmkd in behalf of .'.\lrs. R. H. Taylor. the widow of a dimittcd
~I a son.

This amount r~·prcscnts the relief extended on·r a period of ,-cars
and was originally a<h·anccd under the authority an(! at the in;tanc~
of Grand :'.\faster Geo. M. Perine.
The evidence in the case shows that Brother Tavlor dimitted from
Escurial Lodge .t\o. 7, of the jurisdiction of Xevada.· 011 his arrival in
San Francisco he presented his <limit to Mission Lodge No. 169 of that
city, and was by that Lodge rejected, and regularly placed saill dimit
in ,jfission Lodge, wluch was
rejected by that Lodge until
bis death in 1905.
\Ve arc in accord with the sentiments of the Oakland Board of
Rc•lief, that the burden of this and similar cases should not cntirelv
be placed upon the brethren of tbe particular locality in which th~
applicant may choose to reside, but should be borne by the entire
fraternity of the State; and we recommend that snitahlc legislation
he enacted by the Grand Lodge, which will effectually, determinately,
«nd economically prescribe for the proper care of dirnitted ~Iasons, their
widows and orphans in this State. As an examination of the ~ancial
otatcmcnt of the Oakland Board of Relief indicates that they are not
in immediate need of the amount asked for, we therefore make the
recommendation :

Resolved, That the rcqncst of Oakland }!asonic Board of Relief
for $2,163.02 be not granted.

After con;;iderable discussion, the report of the committee was adopted, but on motion of Brother Gummow the
Grand Lodge agreed to relieve Oakland Board of Relief of
further expense on account of the widow referred to. and
Dn motion of Brother \\'illiam P. Teffries the Trustees of
the ] Iorne were requested to provi(ie a place for her in. the
11 ome at the first opportunity.

623

\Vith reference to the resolntion of Grand :\laster Ukdsoc providcommunication of this Gr;111d Lodge once en·1·y third year in Los An·
gek,;, we apprehend that the purpose of it,; snhmi~sion to the Fi11a11cL·
Committtc is that the Crarnl Lodge may he infornH·d as to thc alhlitiuual
ens! (if any) of such [lroccdme.
\V c hcg to report as follows:

Cost of session of 1911-San
Cost of session of 1912-Los Angeles
Cost of session of 1913-San Francisco

6,979.20
11,338.5.~

7.676.70

Yonr committee has averaged the cost of the two San Francisco
sessions and tind the average amount to he $7,327.95.
The session in Los Angeles cost approximately 55 per cent more.
Jn that the resolution involves a question of policy to he determined by the Grand Lodge, it is retnrned without recommendation.

Thereupon the recommendation of the Grand .:\raster
that section 11 of the Constitution be amended by striking
out the qualifying clause added in 1911 and inserting in
lieu thereof the following: "Provided, howe\'er, that, commencing with the year 1916 A L., and every third year
thereafter, the Annual Communications shall he held in the
City of Los Angeles," was put upon its passage and defeated.

MASOXJC

nor.ms.

Y onr Committee Oil Finance has examined the linancial report
presented by the Doard of Directors of the .Yiasonic 1l omes of California and limls the statement accurate and corred.
\V c could not feel that our work was completed if we failed to
express 011r admiration for the cxcdlcnt methods of admini:stration of
Lhc'. affairs of the Homes, and we unanimously snhsnibc to the fenTlll
sentiment expressed in om Grand Master's report that all engaged
are doing God's work.

Your committee has hacl under consideration the question of
maintenance of onr Homes at Dccoio and San Gabriel and arc of
the opinion that tlv~ per ca[lita tax of one dollar should be continued.
"Ve therefore offer the following resolution am! recommend its
adoption:

524

PROCEI~l>ING8

OF THE

52;;

Rtsril«1·d. That the usual per capita lax oi one dollar he levied on
our mcmlwrship for 1he maintenance of ;;aid Du:oto am! San Cabrid
1 Iom cs.

\·alue of $10.()() each ,bare), in addilion lo the stock of said ;\ssociation
already o\\'ned.

W. P. ]n'F1m:s,
]. 11. S'.l'JiPHtNS,
\.VJ\!. :\. SHI!RMA:'!,
J. H. BEAN,
GEoHCE F. RoDmix.

. \dopte<l.
Your Committee on Finance has cardnlly examined the claim of
San :\Talco Lodge ~o. 226 for $164.95, relief a<kanccd to Brother
CcorgL· Bonnie, a member of Washington Hidalgo Lodge ); o. 2, of Chil:uahua, :\I cxico. RepeatC'd efforts for rcimhursement of this money
han !wen made hy San :\latco Lodge No. 226, lmt withont success, due.
11ndouhtedly, to the trouhlnl conditions in ?llexico. The committee
is of the opinion that San :\latrn Lodge should he reimbursed for thi~
relief and that all records in the case he turned O\·er to the Grand
St·crcta ry with a view for fnrthcr atti:mpt for rcimlmrsement, am!
offer the following resolution and mm·c its adoption:

Adopted.
On motion of Past Grand .\laster Henderson the a nnna 1
election was fixed for 2 :30 o'clock this afternoon.
The Crand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

f?csoh-ed. That San :.\latco Lodge No. 226 be rcimhurst•d to the
amot·nt of $164.95 expended in the relief of Bro. Geo. Bonnie of
\Va;;hington Hidalgo Lodge Xo. 2 oi Chihuahua. l\lcxirn.

Afternoon Session.

Adopted.

Friday, October Li, 191.i.
1t appearing irom lhc books of lhc Committee on Pay of J\!cmlicrs.
that Brother S. 11. Crow, Im.pector of 1he Eighth District, recei,·c(l
kss than his proper
fee for attendance on the last commlmication of this Grand Lodge, yonr Finance Committee introduces and
a"ks tl1e JMssagc of tlw following rcsol11tio11:

Rc.rnh·cd. That !he sum of $10.00 he and the same is hereby or<lucd paid to Brother S. H. Cro''"

Adopted.
7'1.\:iOXIC TJ':\IPLE STOCK.

Yum· Finance· Committee has had under most carcfol consideration tlw n·snlution rcfrrrecl to it asking !hat the sum of $50,000.00
lit- appropriatecl from 1he funds of this Grand Lodge for the pttrpose
uf suliscribing for stock in 1he .:\Iasonic Temple Association of California, and ai·e of the opinion that this Gram! Lodge should aid this
enterprise as far as it can consistcn1ly do so.

\Ve thndnrc uffrr the followiug resolution and recommend its
adoption :
T?,·sofr•cd. That this

(~rand

thr c;1pital stock of !he :'.\fasonic

Lodge suhscrihes for 4.000 shares of
.\ssociation of California (par

The Gran<l Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
.\faster presiding.
The Grand Secretary called attention to the foliowing
from the address of the Grand ~faster: "I therefore recommend that the incoming Grand l\T aster be authorized to
extend recognition to the Grand Orient of Italy, when he
shall be satisfied that the Grand Orient is no longer invading
any of our American jurisdictions," and moved that the
recommendation be adopted. The motion prevailed.
Brother Jlarry L. Dewey presented a resolution providing for the painting of portraits of deceased Past (;rand
:\Tasters, which was reierred to the Committee on Finance.

ELECTIO.\J OF OFFICERS.
The (~rand ),[aster announced that the annual election
of officern for the ensuing year was now in order, and
appointed tellers. The election resulted as follows:

GRAND LODG~J OF CALIFORNIA

526

527

The R. ·. \\'. ·. ,\lhert G. Burnett. oi Santa Rosa Lodge
:\o. ,;/, was unanimously elected Cram! ]\faster.

Senior c;rand Deacon, Joseph E. r,eYin, oi J C\vel Lodge
No. 374.

The R. ·. \ \'. ·. Francis \'. Keesling, of Caliiornia I ,odg·e
:\o. 1. was unanimously elected Deputy Grand l\Iaster.

Junior Crand Deacon, Rohe rt Creig, of Durant Lodge
\:o. 268.

The R.". \\' .". William Rhodes HerYey, of Pentalpha
J ,odge ::"\: o. 202, was elected Senior Crancl \\'a rd en.

Senior Grand Steward, Robert E . .\llan, of :\lission
Lodge. No. 169.

The \ \' .". Dradford \ \' ehster, of Live Oak Lodge :\ o.
Gl, was elected Junior Grand \\'arden.

Junior Grand Steward, Francis \\'. ]\] ixter, of Exeter
T,odge No. 424.

The .\l.". \\'.". \\'illiarn P. Filmer, oi King Solomon's
Lodge ::\o. 260, \vas unanimously re-elected Crand Treasurer.

r,odge ~ 0. 3.

The \' .". \\'.". John \\'hicher, of King David's Lodge
>in. 20tJ, \\'as unanimously re-elected Grand Secretary.
The \- .". \ \' .". Thomas J. Baker, of -Union Lodge ::\ o .
.;~. \vas unanimously re-elected Cram! Lecturer.
The Crand .\fa:;ter-elect then caused to he read the list
oi appointed officers, as follows:
Crand Chaplain. John .-'\.. n. Fry, of Charter Rock Lodge
:\o. -1-10.
(;rand Orator, John .\f. Eshleman, of El Centro Lodge
:\n. 38-1-.

c\ssistant Grand Secretary, Harry S. Johnson, of San
hancisco Loclge ::"\: o. 360.
Cran cl .\I arshal. \ \' illiarn Kettner, of San Diego Lodge

::"\: (), 3.;.
Crand Standard Bearer, David J. Reese, of San Buena\·entura Lodge ::\ o. 214.
(;rancl S\\'ord Bearer, Horace V. Ley, of North Star
Lodge ::"\: o. C)}.
(;rand Bible Bearer, John P. Jarman, of San Jose Ludg·e
\'n. IO.

Grand Pursuiyant, Theodore J . .\lilliken, of Tehama
Grand Organist, Samuel D. ]\fayer, of California Lodge
?\ o. 1.
Grand Tyler, George P. Adams, of California Lodge
;\ o. 1.

Fl:\AL REPORT OF

FINA~CE

COl\E\IITTEE.

Brother George F. Rodden, Chairman of the Committee
on Finance, reported as follows:
To the 111. ·. TV.·. C'raud Lodgr of California:
Referring to the Grand Lecturer's report, wherein the swrncstion
is made that the Inspectors be furnished with writing material with
their name and the dio;trict which they represent printed thereon, we
arc of the opinion that !he purpose of the recommendation is to impress upon the Lodges of the several districts the fact that any communication received frnm an Tnspcclor has emanated from an authorilati1·e source and a:,; such should be given the respect and consideration to he accorded such communications. Your committee is of the
opinion that such a procedure would entail an unnecessary expense;
that the goocl resultant would not be commensurate with the cost.
\V c · therefore.offer a substitute motion in the form of a resolution
\\'hich we feel will effect the purpose at infinitely less cost:

Resoh·cd, That the Grand Secretary he authorized and instructe<l
lo send to each of the Inspectors of this jurisdiction at least fifty sheets
of Crand Lodge 'letter paper and an equal number of envelopes frolll
which the name of the Crand llfastcr shall have been ollli!tecl, for
use hy the Tnspectors in their official communications.

-----------~---------------------

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
l'Wll'EEl>ING~

G28

529

OF THI•;

The report \\'as adopted hy more than a three-fourths

'.'\Tasters painted anLl suitably framed. and to ach·ise this Grand Loclgc
at its next Annual Communication.
CEo. F. RoHm!N,
\VM. A. SHERMAN,
\Vxr. P. J;;FFRn;s,

\'Ote.

J. I-!. BEAN,
To the Jf.". /r.". Grand Lodge of California:

By reason of the rather lax methods often employed hy onr
,'iuhorllinatc Lodges in the extension of relief to members of other
jurisdictions. and owing to a disinclination and ofttimes positive
rdusal of many Grand and subordinate Lodges of other juris<lictions
to reimlrn rsc our Lodges for amounts so expended, we feel it incumbent on us to introdnce a resolution tending to control, in some
measure, the lamentable conditi01's which often arisc. \Ve therefore
offer the following rcsolntions and recommend their adoption:
Be it rcsoh•cd, ?\o snhordinatc Lodge of this Grand Jurisdiction
shall apply to this Grand Lodge f<>r reimbursement for moneys expended on behalf of a member nf any other jurisdiction, unless it
shall han expended such moneys by direct authority of the subordinatc
Lodge of which the applicant is a member, or of the Grand Lodge of his
j nrisdiction; and be it fnrther
Rcsoh•cd, That the Grand Secretary be instructed to send a copy
of these resolutions to e\·ery Lodge in this jurisdiction.

Jos. J-l. STEPHENS.
Committee.

Adopted by more than three-fourths vote.

I.\iSTALLATIO:\ OF OFFICERS.
The (_-,,rand Officers, excepting the Grand Chaplain,
~;rand O:ator .and Junior Grand Deacon, were then duly
mstalled. 111 .their several stations and places by Grand :'.\faster Denpmm F. Bledsoe, assisted by Past Grand :'.\faster
"\lonzo J. ~Ton roe as :'.\Jaster of Ceremonies.
The retiring Grand :'.\I aster was presented with a dinner
set of twenty-eight pieces of sterling silver by the Grand
Lodge, l'ast Grand :'.\Taster Patton making the presentation.

The resolutions were defeated.

S'L\:\fDJNG CO:'.\DIITTEES.
To the JJ.".

n .". Grand Lodge of California:

There has been presented to your committee a resolution which
prm·iclcs for the painting of portraits of Past Grand l\Iastcrs, twenty! 1rn in mun her, the cost of each painting to be $100.00.
Your committee i., in hearty sympathy with the purpose of the
rc·"ilution. Knowing how highly revered those Past Grand l\Tastcrs
were hy those mcn1bers of this \.rand Body who knew them, we feel
that to pcrpctuat<.: in our memories their beloved faces is but a small
tithe of the honor to which they are entitled.
H owc,·er, the resolution, coming to us as it has in the closing:
110urs of this session, giYes us no opportunity to properly investigate
its conclitiom. \V c frcl, however, that a special committee should
hc appointecl in order that the best results may be attained, and we
thcrdorc offer the following resolution ancl recommcnd its adoption:
I<cso/.i'cd. That the Crarnl :\lastcr appoint a special committee of
three to consider the <[Ucsrion of h;l\'inf); the portraits of our Past Grand

. The Grand :'.\1 aster announced the appointment uf :-;tandmg Committees for the ensuing year as follows:
Jurisprudence:
Frank '.'IL Angellotti,
William S. Wells,
Char lcs L. Patton,
Dana R. \;y cllcr,
John D. l\Iurphcy,
Benjamin F. Bledsoe,
Alonzo J. Monroe.
Gric1•a11ccs:
Charles Albert Adams,
Joscph P. Bernhard,
George L. Jones,
Ranclolph V. Whiting,
Walter F. Haas.

Fina11cc:
George P. Rodden,
John H. Bean,
Orel :\f. Goltlaraccna,
Joscph Tl. Stephens,
\Villiam !\. Sherman.
Crcdc11tials:
Jimmie N. Hall,
Frank C. Mulkey,
Fred L. Arbogast,
Robert B. Gaylord,
Clark H. Shaw.

PROCEEJJlNGS OF THE

Hctunzs:

.Jccomzts:
Hugh J. Owen,
Edward E. Conn,
I )anicl E. F. Easl<Jll,
.\ lhcrt i\. Rosenshine,
Fred 13. \Vood.

Nitual:
Thomas J. Daker,
Dana R. Weller,
Edward H. Hart.

Trustees of Jfasouic flo111cs:
William S. Wells,
Edward B. Spencer,
Elmer E. Stone,
l\fotley H. Flint,
Thomas Flint.
I',Jl(lo<C·mcnt Co1mnittcc of Jlasonic

Homes:
~Iotky H. Flint,
Samuel E. Burke,
Clayton F. Draper,
George l\L Perine,
Deni a min B. Tuttle,
Frank K. Towne.
Frederick W. Clough,
Frcclcrick 13. Nichols,
Joseph D. Pillsbury.

Arthur $. Crites,
John B. Wuersching,
George VI/. Lel\Ioin,
Joseph D. Abrams,
Charles D. Barnett.

Corrcspo11dc11cc:
Ed ward I I. Hart,
Lemuel L. Test,
Edgar B. Levi,
George A. De Witt,
William Kay.
Pay of ,Uc11zbers:
Howard D. Kercheval,
Amos Stevens,
Hugh K. McKevitt,
John H. l\IcGehee,
Clarence A. Berry.
Library:
Henry l\T. Owens,
John V/. Gwilt,
\Villiam B. Cameron,
Sidney B. Force,
Harry E. Leland.
J/asouic blucation:
Irving J. l\litchell.
Alfred W. Bush,
John \Vhicher.

. \ t -+ :30 o \·lock, all husiness heing now completed, the
(;rand Lodge was closed.

''MOON" DATES.
For the Lcnclit of l\Iastern of LodgeR \Yho!'e by-la\\·" call for Stated
Meetings "of or Preceding the Full Moon," the following tlates are
giYcn for the year rn IG.

l\Ionday .....

.JUlf:\ \\.ITICIIER,

Grand Secretary.

13

1.)

J.!

11 I Hi

::

::

18

15 I rn ! 10

18

Tuesday ...

I

Od. No•

n.,

f,

4

7

fi

10

I:l

11

8

5

I :: I :; :: ::

;

L0 i

\\' edne~day ..
Thursday . . . . . .

20

Friday ......... .

::

Saturday ...... . J;i I 12

II

8

12

g

II,

I: : :
1

4

g

Stated Meetings "of or Succeeding the Full Moon."
r

17

22

19

17

L4

l L 16

I 13

LL

18

23

20

18

15

12

17

14

12

HJ

17

2L

19

l6

13

Ll

rn

13

I 20

18

15 I 20

17

L4

12

9

14

18

15

13

10

15

16

14

11

16

,

24

21

20

..

25

22

2L

Wednesday .....

2()

23

22

I

24

9•_)
~·'

Monday.
Tuesday ...

Thursday ..
Friday .....

ALBERT t;. BURNETT,
Grand flfaster.

Ji i 14

I"°' '°"'i '"" "'" l'"•'I
~1-: :-:-! ---;-1,, --:

_.ra_r_• ' ' ' " : " " '

20
2L

18

24

I

21

'

19

16 I 14
r

Saturday .. .....

22

19

2.5

22

20

17 I 15
I
I

l\J
I

I

T

~

"a'"
;:;
z
Town.

·I

County.

California ...... . 1 San Francisco ...... 'San Francisco ..... .
Wes tern Star .... . 2 Shasta ............. !Shasta ............ .
Tehama ........ . 3 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ....... .
Benicia ........ . 5 Benicia ............ Solano ............ .
Tuolumne
8 Sonora ............. Tuolumne ......... .
Corinthian
9 Marysville ......... Yuba ............. .
San Jose ....... . 10 San Jose . . . . . . .. . .. San ta Clara ....... .
Yount .......... . 12 Napa .............. Napa ............. .
Nevada ........ . 13 i-.evada City ....... Nevada ........... .
Temple ......... . 14 Sonoma ............ Sonoma ........... .
Eureka ......... . 16 Auburn ........... Placer ............ .
Parfaite Union .. 17 San Francisco ..... San Francisco ..... .
Mountain Shade .. 18 Downieville ........ Sierra ............ .
San Joaquin ..... . 19 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ....... .
Washington .... .. 20 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ....... .
Hawaiian
21 Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter ...... .
Occiden ta! ...... . 22 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ..... .
Madison ........ . 23 Grass Valley ....... Nevada ........... .
Mariposa ....... . 24 Mariposa ........... Mariposa ......... ..
Georgetown
25 Georgetown ........ El Dorado ......... .
Palmyra ........ . 26 Placerville .....•... El Dorado ......... .
Trinity ......... . 27 Weaverville ........ Trinity ........... .
Golden Gate .... . 30 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
Gold Hill ....... . 32 Lincoln ............ \Placer ............ .
Ophir .......... . 33 Murphy's .......... Calaveras ......... .

.c

Places of Location.

.

.

26 San Diego . . . . . . . 35 San Diego ......... San Diego ..... · · · · 1
27 St. John's ....... 37 Yreka .............. Siskiyou ...........
28 Santa Cruz ...... 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz .........
29 Yuba ........... 39 Marysville ......... Yuba . .............
30 Sacramento . . . . . . 40 Sacramento ........ Sacramento . .......
31 Martinez ........ 41 Martinez ........... Contra Costa .......
32 Los Angeles . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
33 Hiram .......... 43 El Dorado .......... El Dorado ..........
34 Mount Moriah ... 44 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
35 Crescent ........ 45 Crescent City ....... Del Norte ..........
36 Texas ........... 46 San Juan .......... San Benito .........
37 Forbes town ...... 50 Forbestown ........ Butte ..............
38 Illinoistown ..... 51 Colfax ............. Placer .............
39 Suisun .......... 55 Suisun ............. Solano .............
-10 Volcano ......... 56 Volcano ............ Amador ............
41 Santa Rosa ...... 57 Santa Rosa ......... Sonoma ............
42 Union ........... 58 Sacramento ........ Sacramento . .......
43 Gravel Range . . . 59 Campton ville ....... Yuba .............
44 Plumas .......... 60 Quincy ............ Plumas ...........
45 Live Oak ........ 61 Oakland ............ Alameda ...........
46 Geo. Washington. . 62 Chinese Camp ...... Tuolumne ..........
47 Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ............. Sacramento ........
48 Amador ......... 65 Jackson ............ Amador ............
49 Forest .......... 66 Alleghany .......... Sierra .............
50 Morning Star. . . . . 68 Stockton ........... Stockton ...........
51 Enterprise . . . . . . . 70 Yuba City ......... Sutter .............
52 Bear Mountain ... 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras ..........
53 Calaveras . ... .... 78 San Andreas ....... Calaveras ..........
54 Humboldt . . . . . . . 79 Eureka ............ Humboldt ..........
55 Ione ............ 80 fone ............... Amador ...........
56 Yolo ............ 81 Y"olo ............... Yolo ...............
57 Rising Star. . . . . . . 83 Forest" Hill ......... ·Placer .............
58 Vesper . . . . . . . . . . 84 Red Bluff .......... Tehama ............
59 Naval ........... 87 Vallejo ............ Solano .............
60 Rose's Bar . . . . . . . 89 Smartsville ......... Yuba · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1
61 North Star ...... 91 Fort Jones ......... Siskiyou ...........
(i2 Acacia .......... 92 Coloma ............ El Dorado ..........
1

17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

11
12
13
14
15

9
10

8

7

6

1
2
3
4
5

Names of Lo<lges.

.;

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

July
May

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

May
May

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

185ii.

"

"
"

"
"
"
"

4,
1,
8,

"

"
"
''
"
"
"
"

1855.
1856.

.. ..

"
"

"

2,

~.

"
"
"
"
"
"

2,

"

3.

"
"
"

,,"
"

,,~.
"

4.

''

"
"
"

"

1853.
1854.

;),

''

''

"
"

3,

I,

"
"
"
"

1853.

"
"
6,
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
,,

20,
5,

7,
5,

Nov:
May

"
"
6,
"
"

27,

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
1851,
"
"
"
1852.
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
Nov.
"
"
May
"
"

1850.

19,

April

was Ordererl.

Date when Charter

... ••

...

g:

~

111
131
125
426

166
!J
9
12

gg ___ J

Ii

12
12
10

i!O 10
50
_., ......

1

.~

;j
:30
.50 ......
.')0
5
.)
.'iO
- 5
o)i)

:~01 .....
:m .....

.

iii
\)

(j
\)

\I

(j

fl

6

fr
\l

12

ti
ti

6

ol

(ii

{ii

(i

()

6

(j
(j

ii

\JIti

5' 18[

5

7.'5
5
75 lll
30 ······
50
75 20
2
50
50
5
50 . .....
50 .. ....
.'iO ..
.50
.')0
:~
501
.)
50 ......

;;~ ""'51

50 ......

:m 1
:io ......

/.')

51

9
.'iO[
.'iO ....
ij
.'jOI
I
ii
50 ... 1 n
10!
Ii
\!
.101 .....
\l
.')(Ji
101
::o 11 ii
/,) 10 12
ii
50
ii

ti

.'iO
.50

l!I ti

12

75

1

()

6
\J

i)

5

3til

.50
50

{j

:io ..... .

i)d.

ti
i)O ...... !
i•~
IO

l'n

58
45
47
161
404
52
51
2l

:ms

73

25'.!
141-1
85

4.')

iti"
75

4"

70
102
28
202
245
32
G8
7 l\I

:n

28

iG

4\li)
27
3;i4

rn::i

HO

117

:c:rn

42:~

.538
50
52

6:~

185

i)]

44

181

314
.548

l(j I

:117

:;o

l/8

12
ti

10!!

(i

...... :

iiO ..... .
iti
,51

154
80

219

6
12
!l
ti
ti

.573
83

I
20' 12
ti

50 ..... .
40 ..... .
.50 ..... .
:~o
2
:~o

-

M~

~=
00 c

"00
= ....-"'
"'
-~

-< II -<=

~~ ... 1_gl

](,(J

I :to

'

;.,16 I

'"
"
~I ~;::::

. ;..i:.

II

1·

.,

= ~=

I .2 ~ ' .2~

I

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 59 I 6.

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

~

(.,.>
(.,.>

u.

z
:;

0
:JJ

::;;

>
t<

()

'zj

t<

0
ti
0
t'J
0

ti

>
z

Q

:Ii

t'J

>-l

'zj

0
ti
Q
t'J
rn
0

t<

t'J

>-l

>

z

tlJ
0
:Ii
ti

rn

q

'zj

t:

rn
>-l
0

N

u.
(,>

#

----

~I

...ti

"
"°I

---------~--~---------

Xanws of Lodges

==r:z:r

............

Town.

County.

..............

Phtces of Location .

.

..

.........
...

..

. . .. . . .

~

... ....

.....

~

..

~

~

........

...
............

~

.
.....

~

!Jl Pacific .......... 1361 San Francisco ...... San Francisco
92 Crockett ......... 1.3!!, San Francisco ...... San Francisco
93 Curtis ........... 140 'Cloverdale ......... Sonoma ........... .
94 Gri.:fton ......... 141 iGrafton ............ Yolo ..............•
95 Pr'.Lnklin ........ 143 1courtland : ......... Sacrament? ....... .
96 Oriental ......... l·i4 1San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
97 Vitru vi us . . . . ... 145 l'B. lo!1m:field ......•..• Sonoma ............ .
98 Abell· ........... 146 Ukiah .............. Mendocrno ........ .
99 Eel River ........ 147 I•'ortuna ........... Humboldt ........ ..
100 Lassen .......... 149 Susanville ........•. Lassen ........... ..
101 l'vlolino .......... 150 Tehama ............ Tehama ........... .
1(12 \Vondland ........ 136 Woodland ...•...•.. Yolo .............•.
l 0.3 Kevstone ........ 161 Milton •.....•••..•• Calaveras •..••.....
104 Harmo11y ........ IM Sierra City ......... Sierra ............ .
105 Exeelsior ........ 166 !San :Prancisco •••••• San Francisco •.••..
106 Alameda ......... 167 /Centerville .....•.. Alameda ••.•.••....
107 Redwood City ... 1681 Redwood
•••••. San Mateo .......•.
..•••. San Francisco •..•..
108 Mission .......... 169 San
09 Elk Grove ...... ,]73,Elk Grove •..•••••.. Sacramento ••..•.••
......... 174 Plymouth .......... Amador ...•......••
110
.....•..• J 7;3 Antioch ...•..•.••.• Contra Costa ...... .
11
112 Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino •.... San Bernardino .... .
113 Mendocino ...... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino ........•
114 Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma ••.•.•••.• Sonoma ......•.....
115 Hussian River ... 181 Windsor ....••••••• Sonoma ........... .
116 M eridiiin ........ 182 ,Arbuckle . . . . . . . . . . Colusa ............ .
117 Clear Lake ...... 183 Lower Lake •.•...•• T.Jake .•...........•
118 Sierra Valley .... 184 Sierra ville ......... Sierra ............ .
.119 Claiborne ........ 185l'Point Arena ........ Mendocino ........ .
120 Evening Star .... 186 Etna Mills •.•••.••• Siskiyou •..........
.121 Keith ........... 187 Gilroy ............. Santa Clara ....... .
122 Oakland ......... 188 jOakland .....•••••• Alameda •.........•
123 Northern Light .. 190 Millville ....•....•• Shasta •............
124 Mtnin .......... 191 San Rafael ......... Marin ............ .
]~;}
Santa Barlmra ....l!J2 Santa Barbara •.••• Santa Barbara .... .
] 26 Perndnle ........ Hl3 Ferndale •.......... !Humboldt •.........
127 Mountain View .. 194 ,Mountain View ..... !Santa Clara ....... .
!I

- -··· -· -

14,

"

May

"
"

"

"

1860.

18GO.

"

"
"
1861.
"

11,

rn,

"
"
"
16,
"

.'.\fa,v

"

"
"

"

Oct.

"

"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
Oct.

11,

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"

"
14,
"

"
"
"
15,
"
15,

"

"
"
"
10,

12,

Oct.

"

1869.

"
"

1868.

"
"
1868.

1867.

"
"
"
"

"

"
"

1865.

ti

10-1
l:l2
U08

913

Hi~

li)tl

127
558
8:3
227

:12

50
80
3:l
53

'Tl
0

217
78

'-"'
(Jl

(Jl

;:..

~-

~

:::::

t:

~

0
"l

31
104
249
136

es

i;i
11'1

s

ti

12
8~5

0
:i:i
ii>

z

11'1

tr;

...,

0
'rJ

[fJ

t"l

i;i

t"
0
ti

""l':

lbl)
2ti

1:m

127

57

;)fj;)

67

15,

"

"
"

"
"
17,

fJ4
:-11
()i)

,rn2

mm

U8

~!

!10
4:1
1>)2
4:J

70

1[18

127
204

546
75
180
60

·18

.1~0

IB5

2W
28

7:1
llii

1')0)
,),)

"1-1, 18G:l.
"
" "
13, 1864.
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"13, 1865.

'

8
z~
202

'1.i

o·
04

1863.

!00

:IO

w
t;j

~

""
0
'rJ

t:
UJ

+

VJ

(Jl

zt7z::7377?5 ~

12:)

26

"
"
May
"
"
''
"
May
"
May
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.

May

{j

HO ....

:io

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
May

i)O
i)()
;)()

"
"

13, 18i)8.
14, 1859.
1.3,
"
13, 1859.

"
"
May

"
"
"
"
May

"
"

13,

"
"

1858.

15,

"
"

May

"
"
"

"
"

1857.

"

"

"

"

"

"

15,

"

"
"

"
"

18:)(j

"
"

"

"

((

"
"

"
"

8,

"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"

May

])ate when Charter
was Ornere<l.

List. of the Subordinate Lodgefl, etc.-Conttnued.

Hte

St. Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ......... Napa
Henry Clay . . . . . . 95
Creek ........ Amador ............
Howard ......... 96
............. Siskiyou . .......
Jefferson ........ 97
Plumas ............
Hornitos ......... 98
............. Mariposa
....
Yosemite ........ 99 Merced
Merced
. .....
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer .. ..... ....
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ............ Butte ............. ,.
71 Lexington ....... 104 El Monte .......... Los Angeles ........
72 Arcata .......... 106 Arcata •............ Humboldt .........
73 Pa,jaro .......... 110 Watsonville
San ta Cruz .........
74 Chico ........... 111 Chico .............. Butte ..... . .......
75 Summit ......... 112 Knight's Ferry ..... Stanislaus ..........
76 Eden ............ 11.3 San Leandro ....... Alameda ..........
77 Concord ......... 117 Sacramento
. Sacramento
78 ()linton .......... 119 lgo .................. Shasta ............•
79 J<'idelity . . . . . . . . . 120 Snn Francisco .....• San Francisco ......
80 Alamo ............ 122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ......•
81 Sotoyome ........ 123 Healdsburg . . ... .. Sonoma ............
82 Table Mountain ... 124 Cherokee ........... Butte ...•.........•
8.3 La Fayette ...... 126 Sebastopol .......... Sonoma ............
84 Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
85 Visalia . .. .. . . .. . 128 Visalia ............• Tulare
,. "' .......
86 Nicolaus ......... 129 Wheatland
Yuba
87 \Voodbridge ...... 131 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ......
88 Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville .. . . . .
Plumas .. ····· ....
89 Vaciiville ........ 134 Vacaville . ......
Solano
., ......
90 Valley ........... 1:i:3 Linden ............. San Joaquin .. ···.•

6.3
6i
65
66
67
68
69
70

2

( 'onntr.

·I

''

"
"
14,
"
"
"

,,

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
Oct.
"

"

"
"
"
"
1.q/;L

"
"
1881.
1882.

"

"
"

"

15
12:

"
"
"
"

"
"
Od.
Oct.

Oct.

"
"

"

"

11,

"

"

"

."

1883.

"

"

1879.

15,

"

"
Oct.

"

"
"
"16,

"
"
"
1880.

1878.

"
"
"

"

1876.
1877.

1876.

"
1875.

0

z

t"

100
369

142

42\l

44
3V

i\t)

107
l!J!J

57

~301

:w.>

82

8:1
185

141

:12
48

71
45

283
342

118

tl

324
H2

-...!

(J.J

U1

;;:

z

~
:0

~

0
"1

t'.1

0

0
ti

>

:ll

84

mi

()8

48

51

80

-t!
51

2;)()
51()

77

141

:101
ili2

•)U

!1i
55

W8

HO

10:1

4/(i

0
"'l

rn7

t:l

::c

..,

:::;-

6

r

0

~

'"9,
...,~

E

0

tt:

c;

Ul

w

1873.

"
"
"
"
"
"

'""
"!j

0

!cl()

H!-~

104
llti

:39

148

:w

500

75

:-)5
5\1
Jill
l lli

\10

r

.';]

°'

"

"
"
"
1872.

"
"

g
~

<i

.,,

<.r<
(J.J

1871.

"

"
"

"

"
"

10,

"

12,
11,

"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
Oct.

"

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"

"
"
Oct.

16,

18,

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
18,
"

"
"11,
"

Oct.

O«t.

"
"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
"

Oct.

"

"

..

"

,,

"
"
,,

"
"
"

18(1}1,

1874.

"
"
"
"
"
"

1+,

"

Oct.

Date whP11 Charter
was Ortlered.

"
"
Oct.
"
"

Buckeye ......... 19•3\Winters ........... )Yolo ...............
San Simeon ..... 196, Cambria .........•. San Luis Obispo ....
Wilmington ...... 1981Wilmington •....... Los Angeles ........
Hartley .......... 199/I,akeport .......... T,ake ..............
Truckee ......... 200 Truckee ............ Nevada . . .. . . . . ...
Silveyville ....... 201 Dixon ....•.......• Solano .•...........
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Confidence ....... 203 Castroville ........• Monterey ..........
Salinas .......... 204 Salinas ............ Monterey . ...........
Newville ........ 205 Paskenta ............ Tehama ............
Stanislaus ....... 2061 Modesto ..........• Stanislaus ........
Anaheim ......... 207 Anaheim ........... Orange ...........
Rio Vista ....... 208 Rio Vista ........... !Solano .............
King David ..... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... ,San Luis Obispo ...
Friendship ....... 210 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ........
S•n Benito ..... 21) Holli•t" .......... ·1San Benito .........
So. San ]l'ranciseo.212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
San Buenaventura 214 Ventura ..........• Ventura ..•.......
Oak Gro\·e ...... 215 Alameda . . . . . . . . . . Alameda ...........
Doric ............ 2161San Francisco ...... 1San Francisco ...•..
Monterey ........ 217 Monterey . . . . . . . . . IMonterey ..........
Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore ........ ··!Alameda ...........
Speranz11 Italia rm. 219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
Downey ......... 220 Downey ........... · f I,os Angeles ........
lnyo . . . . . . . . . . . 221 Independence •...... Inyo .............
Granite .......... 222 Rocklin •........... 1Placer ...........•.
Bakersfield ....... 2241Bakersfield ........ ·!Kern ..............
Brooklyn ........ 220: East Oakland ....... Alameda ...........

Town.

Plae0s nf Lo<'ation.

lii6 San Mateo ...... 226 San Mateo ......... San Mateo ........ .
157 Athens .......... 228 Davis ............. Yolo ............. .
1.i8 Solano .......... 229 v 'l.llejo ............. Solano ........... .
1 ii9 North Butte ..... 230 Gridley ............ Butte ........... .
160 Covelo ........... 231 Covelo ............. Mendocino ........ .
lGl Janesville ....... 232 Lassen ............. 1jLassen .......... .
162 Calistoga ........ 233 Calistoga .......... Napa ............. .
Hi3 Hope ............ 234 Beckwith .......... 1 Plumas ........... .
164 Surprise Valley .. 235 Cedarville .......... 1,Modoc •..........
Hlii Hill's Ferry ..... 236 Newman ..........• iSfanislaus ....... .
166 Guadalupe ....... 237 Guadalupe ......... !Santa Barbara ... ..
167 Colusa ........... 240 Colusa ............ Colusa .•...........
Hi8 Santa Ana ....... 241 Santa Ana ......•.. orange .......... .
l(j!)
Magnolia ........ 242 Santa Barbara ...... 1, Santa Barbara .... .
170 Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards . . . . . .... Alameda .......... .
171 Alcatraz ......... 244 West Oakland ...... Alameda •.........
172 Laur1Jl ........... 245 Willows ..........•. Glenn •... "· ..... .
173 Pomona ......... 246 Pomona ...........• Los Angeles ....... .
lH ]'rcsno .......... 247 IFresno •............ , Fresno •...........
175 Alturas ......... 248 Alturas ......••...• Modoc ........... .
1
116 Adin ............ 250,Adin .............• /Modoc
•....... · .. .
177 Bodie ........... 252 Bodie .............• Mono •..•.........
li8 I,andmark ....... 2531Madison .......•.. Yolo ............. .
li~)
H~ading ......... 2~. ·11Redding ........... /'Shasta ............ .
180 WeI:orne : ....... 2~~,.T,em.oore .......... ·.~ulare .. ·: ........ .
181 Lod1 ............ 2;)6 Lodi .............. San Joaqum ..... .
Penrhyn ......... 258 Pen.ryn ............ 1Placer ........... .
1
Evergreen ....... 259!Hiversidc .......... Hiverside ......... .
184 King Solomon's .. 2GO ISan :F'rarn·isco . . . . . San Francisco .... .
18;}
'l'nH('<ln •........• 2lll Williams .......... 1Colusa ........... .
18G Lornpcw ......... 262 Lompoc ........... ·!Santa Barbara .. .
187 IIespel'ian ....... 264,Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara .. .
1
] .'Ill Orlan ii .......... 263 Orland ............. !Glenn
........... .
189 North E:ist . . . . . 266 Fort Bidwell ....... Modoc .......... .
1
190 Galt ............. 2671 Galt ............... '.'Sacramento ....... .
191 Durnnt .......... 268 Berkeley •.......... IAlameda ......... .
192 Olive Brauch .... 269 :'fulare ...........•. !'rulare .......... .

l:J5

152
l:l3
1ii4

l;)]

128
J29
130
131
132
133
J34
135
136
J37
138
139
140
141
142
143
H4
145
]46
147
148
149
150

-

Names of Lodges.

LiAt of the 811bordinate Lodge~, ete.-ContinHPfl.

- , __ .,_ -- -- ·-·---, ..

r

2;)7

~->G

o.....,.).}

252
2:)3
2ii4.

248
249
250
2;)1

347

216

244
245

213

239
240
241
242

2il8

236
237

23;;

229
230
231
232
2;;3
234

228

226
227

225

'2:l3
22-±

~22

~21

1

Town.

I

County.

j

1

.............. -

Snow Mountain . .
.B'ord ........ Colu.sa ............ .
Pasadena . . . . . . . .
. ......... Los Angeles ....... .
Anchor . . . . . . . . .
. .......... Los Angeles ....... .
.......... 27 4 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo .... .
......... 275 Oakdale ...........• Stanislaus ......... .
Selma ........... 277 Selma •...........• Fresno . . . . . . . . . ...
Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Hanford ......... 27\l Hanford ........... Kings ........... .
Madera ......... 280 Madera . . . . . . ..... Madera ........... .
Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson ........•. Shasta ............ .
omi ....... 282 Middletown ...•.... Lake ............. .
West ...... 283 National City ...... San Diego ....... .
San Miguel ...... 285 San Mignel ........ San I1uis Obispo .... .
Paso Robles ..... 286 Paso Robles ........ San Luis Obispo .... .
Winnedumah ..... 287 Bishop ............• Inyo .............. .
Maxwell ......... 288 Maxwell ........... Colusa . . . . . . . ... .
1'~lsiuorc ......... 289 Elsinore ............ Riverside ......... .
1<.ast Gate ....... 290 Los Angeles ........ I,os Angeles ....... .
Santa Paula ..... 2n 1sant~ Paula ........ Ventura .......... .
Los Gatos ....... 292 Los (,atos .......... Santa Clara ...... ..
Orange Grove ... 293!0range ...........• Orange .......... ·"
Tr1wcr .......... 294 Kingsburg ......... \Fresno ..•.........
Mt ..Taekson ..... 295 Guerneville ......... Sonoma ........... .
Gate ...... 296 San Diego .......... San Diego ........ .
nir ........ 297 Dunsmuir .......... Siskiyou .......... .
1
l\fokelurrmc ~Iill .. 2Hf' Mokelurnne Hill ... · jCalaveras ........ .
Libcrtv .......... 2lHl Santa Clara ........ santa Clara ....... .
1fo<llm1(1s •....•.. 300 Redlands ........... 1San Bernardino .... .

z

:::<

s"'

Places of Location.

Ontario .......... 301 '0ntarfo •.......... ·!San Bernardino .... .
Santa Lucia ..... 302IKings' City ..... , . ·!Monterey ......... .
Porterville ....... 303 iPorterville ........ • j"Tulare ............ .
Reedley ......... 3041 Reedley ........... Fresno ............ .
Azusa ........... ~051 Azusa ............ • 1Los Angeles : ...... .
Ashlar ... ._. . . . .. 306 Colton •.. '. ......... San Bernard1110 ... .
Santa .Monica .... 3071.Santa Mo111c11. ...... ·Los Angeles ....... .
.
Monro'.·.
rn ...... · ·.308IM
" onrovia
. . . . . . . . . . L os A nge 1es ....... .
1
Delano .......... 309;Delano ............• ·Kern
............. .
.
. . . . . . . . . . . 310 's·lSSOn ............. s·
' 18k'iyou .......... .
S isson
Los Jllhnos ...... · 312 T,os Banos ......... Merced ........... .
....... 313 !Tehachapi .......... Kern ............. ..
........ BH Corona .....•......• Riverside ......... .
Norwalk ......... B15 Norwalk .......... .'Los Angeles ....... .
Sanger .......... :>Hi Sanger ............ Fresno ............ .
Fall brook ........ :n7 J<'allbrook .......... San Diego ....... .
Emmanuel . . . . . . 318 Biggs .............. Butte ...... : ...... .
Hollenbeck ...... 31\1 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Gate ....... 320·I1os Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda .......... .
A.lhambra ........ 322 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Whittier ......... a2:1 Whittier . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles ....... .
Corona
......... :l24 Pasadena .......... l;os Angeles ....... .
Consuelo ......... :l25 Escondido •......... San Diego ....... .
Needles ......... 326 Needles ............ San Bernardino .. .
Long Beaeh. . . . . :;27 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Redondo ........ 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Vallee de Ji'ranee .. 329 I,os Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Kil1~1.iea , ......... !i30/Hil~
l~awaiian Ter ...... .
Pae die (,rove .....331 Pacrfie Grove ....... Monterey ......... .
San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro .......... Los Angeles •.......
Alta ............. :13:;!Bri<~geport ......... Mono ............. .
Covina .......... B:H rCovrna ............. Los Angeles ....... .
West Gate ....... 3i1ii I,os Angeles ....... ·1'Los Angeles ....... .
Fruit\.·ale ........ 33(i Onklnrnl ........... A.lameda. . ......... .
C'al'qninez ....... :l:li Crockett .......... , Contra Costa ...... .
:San .Jacinto ..... :;:;H San Jacinto ........ Riverside ......... .

219
220

217
21ti

2rn

211
212
21;;
214215

209
210

207
208

20ti

205

204

203

200
20l
202

1D7
1!)8
HJ9

1\14
195
196

193

Names of Lodi;e~.

ui...

"
"
"
"
"
"

. ""

"

Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"

"

"
"

1899.

1898.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

1896.

"

"

18B5.

"

Ii

1_•1·

121

\JI

"
"
"
1803.

>
ti

z
57

50

\lk

!I!

200

11 ;;

152

:t.~

184-

6()

()()

101

rn2

:J28

37!1
1.J1)
'"·'
1:15

178

23U

U-1

7'27
72!)

~

'°""

Vt

;..

~

~

0

;;:;

0

'zj

t"
0
ti
0
t'.I
0

~

H~

!i5
4-0

0

;')5

Ii\]

7H

87
(i

1892.

J..i:?

Iii
12fi

fiO

I 4-i1
fi7
lil

~;)~~

]X5

52

101

Sl
405

6G

124

1897.

"

"
Oct.
"
"

"3

l'l

::r;

>::]

I::l7

123
108

0

58

ti56

G:
r.::
(Q

0r

~

77

11:)

(i

15,

13,

"

"
1 l,
"

>-i

ts

32

{)

H

()'

HI
ti'I
()

t\i

H:

u:

():

(jl

gl
ol

!l'

ti!

(ii

"
"

~

;,..

54

;_;o

Ii,

"
"

e
!)\)

ti

1800

1891.

0

;:::!

1:m
682
lii7

~

""w
6\J

51

75

>-i

7,

:..,

0

Gil
H7

U!

Vt
00

""

4 lti

;-){)

(\

ff

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
1890.

1889.

"
"

"
"
"
1888.
"
"

"
" "
"
"
"
"11, 1894.
"
"
"

11,

Oct.

"

"

"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

"
"
"
"

"
Oct.

"

Oct.

"
"

"
12,

"
"

1•1,

"

rn,
"
"

"

"
"
16,
"

"
"
"10,
"
"

"
"
"
"
11,
"

Oct.

"

Oct.

"
"

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
14,

"
"
"
"
"
1886.

"

"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
1885.

"

"

"
"
16,
"
"
"

188,1.

16,

Oet.

'"·as Ordl\red_.

Dute when Chartf'r

Li:;t of the Subordinate Lrnlge~, etc. ---Continne•l.

...,.....-...--...

s

"

7;

To\\'n.

Place of I.oration .

County.

:n1

311
312
:11:1
:11±
;{ l3
:nr;

310

309

302
303
30-1
305
306
307
308

:rn1

300

299

:ms

29"7

28G
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
29.J
296

::85

284

1

·I

'I

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"

Oct.

"

"

"

12,

14,

"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
15,
"
"
"

10,

"

"
"
1909.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

1908

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
1907.

"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

1~06.

"

1905.

10,

"

"
"

"
rn, 190:l
"
"
"
"
"
"
,,
"
"
1904.
,,
"
,,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
12, 1905.
"
"
"
"

"

",,

wa~ Orderpd.

lJntfl when Charter

......... .
Oct.
Ocean Park ...... :rnn Ocean Park
"
Amitv . . . . . ..... ;370 'san Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
Oceanic ......... 3_71. Honolulu ..........•. Hawaiian Ter . . . . .
"
Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ..........• Los Angeles . . . . .. . Oe.t.
Veteran ......... 3731Sawtelle ........... iLos Angeles ....... .
"
J~wel ..· ........ ·?~~1San Franc~sco ..... ·!San Franc~seo ..... .
"
Richmond ....... 31 ,J San Francisco ...... , San Fra.nc1sco ..... .
"
.l!'rancis .Drake .. 376 South San :Jl'rancisco.;San Mateo ........ .
"
Artesia .......... 377 ;Artesia ........... Los Angeles ....... .
"
.......... 3781Los Angeles ........ jLos Angeles ....... .
"
.......•. 379 Fillmore ........... ! Ventura ............ .
"
Huntington Beach.380;Huntington B<'>t«li •• !Orange •...........
"
Oceanside ........ 381 [Oceanside .......... I San Diego ........ .
"
Big~land Park .. ·?82!Los ~ngeles ....... ··l~os Angeles ....... .
Oct.
Orosi ............ 38. 3.1 Oros1 ............. ·I fulare ............ .
E'. Centro ....... ·?8~.E~ Centro .......... ·!Imperial ......... . ""
Dmuba .......... 38., Dmuba . . . . . . . . . ..• Tulare ............ .
Coalinga ......... 387ICoalinga .......... jTulare ............ .
Parnassus ....... 388[San Francisco ....... i San Francisco ....... '
"
Palos Verdes ..... 389!Long Beach ......... !Los Angeles
"
Imperial ......... 390 Imperial ........... ·1
Oct.
East Belt ........ 391 Tuolumne . . . . . . . . .. ~~·u ... ~v • • • • • • • • • •
West Lake ....... 392 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles.. . .. .
"
Balder . . . . . . . . .
Francisco ....... : San Francisco ...... '
"
University ....... 39±
Angeles ......... ]Los Angeles ......... '
'l'urlock .......... ~l9i'i Turlock ............ ; Stanislaus ......... .
Apollo .......... 3%, Alameda ........... I Alammla .......... .
"
Rising
Light .... 397:Huntington Park .... : Los
....... ..
1
"
1" rateruit_y ....... :rnn! San Jose ........... 1 Santa
....... .
"
...... JOlliBurlingame . . . . . . . San Mateo ........ .
"
....... .-llJIIOakland ........... Alamerla .......... . Oct.
........ .4021Brawley ........... Imperial ........... ·
..... 4Ui! !Oakland. . .......... 'Alameda .......... .

Unity ........... 3G8jGlendale

258 Fullerton ........ 339'Fullerton --:-:.: ...... "'. .w"" ........... .
259 Oxnard .......... 341 Oxnard ............ Ventura .......... .
260 San Fernando .... 343 Fernando •......... Los Angeles ....... .
261 Starr King ...... 344 San Francisco ...... 1San Francisco ..... .
262 Brentwood ...... 345 Brentwood ......... !Contra Costa ...... .
26:l Palo Alto ........ 346 Palo Alto .......... Santa Clara . . . . . ..
....... 347 :Richmond .......... Contra Costa ...... .
264
265 San Bernardino .. 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino .. .
266 Sequoia ......... 34!l Oakland ....•.....• Alameda ........ .
267 Palestine ........ 351 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
268 Sunset ........... 352 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
269 Pinole ........... 353 Pinole ••..........• Contra Costa ...... .
270 Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco ...... •San Francisco ..... .
271 Hollywood ....... 355 Hollywood •........ ,Los Angeles ....... .
272 Mill Valley ...... 3~~ IMill Valley ......... Marin ............ .
273 Buena Park ...... 3n1 Buena Park ........ Orange ........... .
2'74 Golden State .... 358 1Los Angeles •...... · 1Los Angeles ....... .
275 I~oyalton ........ ;359 ILoyalton : ...........'Sierra •...........
276 San Francis!'o .... 360 San Francisco .......1San Francisco ..... .
277 Fort Bragg ...... 361 iE'ort Bragg ......... Mendocino ........ .
.......... 1162 Campbell ........... Santa Clara ....... .
278
279
........ 363 Berkeley ........... Alameda .......... .
280 Olivet ........... 364 Corning ............ Tehama •...........
281 Willits .......... 365 Willits ............ ,Mendocino ........ .
282 Las Palrnas ...... 366 Fresno .•.......... · JFresno ........... ..
283 Son th Pasn<lenn .. 367 South Pasadena .... ; Los Angeles ....... .

Xameo of Lodges.

.;,

l:'"'

List of the Subordinate Lodges, ctc.-Continued.

,._..,.,,_-"'"""········-

tl

/fl
:181

8fi
Iii

38
3og

(\
(\

\l

8
f>.

751
ii()

Ii

12

5'
~;).

12.
9

08
l ··H:)
Hiil
148
!I
H
ti

18(i

208
70

"'

HJI)

li

181

557

:w

62

J:HJ

HI
144
261)

ff

\I'

;)

(i

]2

10

50.

ti
12

5fi
118

70
!I

ti

2H:~

12
12

H15
J 4:l
'ifi
109
8H

Hl8

171

8(1
2!)(i

i'ifJ

75
:t)tJ

Hlti

(\

~

(.fl

.....

.....

z
:;:

0
::i:i

';l

t

("J

>tj

0

8txl

ti
t"
0

z

;..

~

74

t'.1

..,

';l

0
;{!)

2:12

6
12

121

0

ti;

181

(JJ

t-<
ti
0

288
311
U:-l
Hi\

0

72

8~1;.J

..,;..

t'.1

z

::i:i
ti

0

1:1:1

q

00

0

';l

t:
!J1

..,

.....
0

2tll
499
:l21

n

12

.,

"

75:

i'iO
i'iU.

~

IS

·i

(./1

-· .---~·:T"~~""4S3"Efr<.:A # .

I

County.

.......~-:-:Tt..os:A nge1es

Town.

8. Orme.,,.

04t.>
il..l.G

.. ,_
:17;;

............. 8iskiyon .......... .

q-;:)

nk

·~

. , ....

j

Contra Costa . . ... .
Placer ............. .
~)47
Hnmmont011 .. .
Yuba ............ .
:HS .:Vlaricopa ....... .-J.;J·J
. . . . . . . . . . Kern ............. .
3 .•H) Fairmount
.... .
Prancisco ...... 11 San Francisco ..... .
;J;)O
Claremont . . .. .
~mont ......... Los Angeles
:l5l Lan<0aster ..... .
Lancaster ......... i Los Angeles
:102 (Jennania ..... , .
Angeles . . . . . . ·Los Angeles
35i:l
Joaquin ...... .
054
'Alameda .......... .
. il;");j
Coronado
8an Diego ........ .
;-~;JG
Blackmer
Diego ...... .
:l57 Schofield
Hawaiian Ter ..... .
;,1;)8
........ Santa Barbara ... .
;1,39
....... Los Angeles ...... .
:rno La Puente ...... .
. ........... Los Angeles ...... .
;}(j]
Torranr·11
Angeles . . . . . .
:362 J\Tt. Diablo ...... .
.ra Costa ..... .
3(iil Park .......... .
Francisco .... .
il64 Yan Xuys ....... .
Angeles ....... .
3():)
Montebello ...... -151
Angeles ....... .
:mo Han Pasqnn I ..... .
Angefos ....... .
H07 lkthlehern
:E,raneiseo. , .... .
iHiR Crocker ....
Mateo ......... .
:rnn Golden West ... .
l•'rnueisco ...... ~
:irn Kennt>tt ....... .
;171 Ramona ....... .

.i\ieCloud

,\Jj>lla ......... .
Hoscdlle

:lH

:H2

341

:l4.0

:l3\'.l

338

;i:{n
;137

:13.')

:rn4

:i:1:1

;i:{2

330
~i~ 1

~29

328

d..:..i

90-

324
325
32G

323

:122

318
31Y
;120
321

:l4:l

~"

~

Places of Location.

Glendora
........ Los Angeles ...... .
.'vlolleta ........ .
........•.. !Los Angeles ...... .
Iforhan k ........ .
Mesa ............ ,. San Diego ......... .
T,a :Mesa ....... .
Madre ........ Los "?:ngeles ...... .
Sierra Madre ... .
.......... Hawt.u ........... .
Honolulu
........... Alameda .......... .
Charter Ror·k ... .
............. Riverside ......... .
Penis ........... 41
' . . . . . . . . . . . Imperial •..........
Calexiro ....... .
Pine ........... Inyo .............. .
\V:rnroba ...... .
Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Arlington .........11
Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Silver '.l'rowel ... .
........... Tulare ........... .
Lin<lsay ........ .41
............. Fresno ........... .
filovis . . . . . . . . .41
Angeles ........ Los Angeles. . . . . . .
Rlvsian ........ .41
............ San Bernardino .... .
Fnlan(1 . . . . . . .. .<1
............ Fresno ............ .
Kerman ....... .
d ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Inglewoo<l ....... 421
Ragle Rock ...... 4'>9il':n "1" Rock ......... Los Angeles ....... .
.............. Los Angeles ...... .
York .......... .
Exeter ............ Tulare ........... .
Rxeter ........ .
. . . . . . . . . . . . '[m perial .......... .
Holtville
.•..•...........1Kern ............. .
J\fi<lwa:v . . . ... .
.............. !San Bernardino .... .
<'hino Valley ... .
Angeles •.......
San Dimas ..... .
......•. ~ . 1~1vu.vra. Costa. ~ ., .....
Pittsburg ...... .

.._,f I . odiE'S.

:£

"

0.-t.

"

Oi·t.

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

--,
i)')

"

"

"

14,

"
"
"

"

"

"

"
"
"

"

"

l::i.

1 !)] .)

"
"
"
"
rnn.
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

19H.

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

1913.

"

1912.

16,

Oet.

"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"

"

"
"

12,

Oct.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continned.

""'"'"

.

...~I
"'"'
"'"'

;:.:..A

-0"'
v

<,

I;

.-"'"-·"'

~
58

26

~

28

74
50
28
88

29
32

....

=

Vt

....c,;

> •

z

~

0

t'
....
»;j

lO!l

.,_

':i:l

0
t:l
0
•.l•)

27

:~a

152

tl

t!

93

t'
0

t;j

>cl

:i;

»;j

0

t;j
U1

0

b
e

t':l

>cl

2
;;..

t!

:i:i

0

t!J

d

U1

0

»;j

...,
[£

t:

Nl

Vt
....

·., q;z))(

-11
28
07
24
8-1
H4

4;1
268

80
35

lii-1

:rn

97
40
60
:)7

5~1

51

40
62
44
48

{''>

,_

50
40
188

121
i:·}7

BO

45
81

08
6'+
117
324

72

50
25:)

'";;:,";,'u

--· "'-';nn

--~~·

~

......

I

Location.

[

County.

Became Extinct

LODGES.
Remarks.

K K. Kane ....... Nevada ........ !Nevada ......... Ma.'·
Tyro ............ Drytown ........ Amador ........ .
Frankliu ......... Meadow Valley ... Plumai; ........ .
Wisconsin Hill .... Wiseonsin Hill ... '!Placer ......... .
Mountain Fon· st. . Eureka North .... Sierra ......... .
Petaluma ........ Petaluma ........ Sonoma ........ .

IE!

74
75
77

1

2':5::·..,' -:,·... ___::-..:.:::o=:;,--,--

1

I

x

Ot

..i:.

(Ji

>

7!

:0

~

("J

0
lzJ

trJ

g

t"
0

t;;

~

l;'d

G"l

t'l

~

.,,0

G;

c::

g

t"'

(':
....,

::::'./,

:r;

===':.
...,.

<"ha rter ne1·er issued'.
29, 1857 Surrendered.
1870 Hu l'l'•'ndernd.
1808 GonRolidatecl with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
18, 1861 Surrendered.
82 Mountain ....... ·1Don Pedro's Bar.\Tuolumne ...... .
85 Indian Diggings ... lndian Diggings .. El Dorado ....... May
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
1 115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
86 Saint Louis ....... IHowland's Flat ... !Sierra ......... .
1882 Consolidated with Gibson ville,
No. 158.
88 Un~ty ........... Orleans Flat. .... [Nevada ........ .
8, 1856 Name changed to
I
88 Qmtman ......... N. orth Bloomfield. IN evada ........ .
13, 1910 1Consolidated with
No. 13.
90 Polar Star. . . . . . . . Poorman 's Creek. Pl um as ........ .
8, 1858 !Surrendered.
93 Caymus .......... Yountville ...... Napa .......... .
10, 1867'Removed and name ehanged to
St. Helena.
94 Mount Ilermon .... Elizabethtown ... IPlumas ......... .
24, 1859 Surrendered.
98 Quartzburg ....... Quartzburg ...... !Mariposa ....... .
.............. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange ....... Merced ••....... Merced •.......
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
100 Campo Se co ....... Campo Seco ...... 1Cala veras ...... .
18981Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
102 Manzanita ....... ,North San Juan .. ,Nevada
8,
l910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
105 Siskiyou ......... Henley ......... Q;'oi,.;"n'
15,
1876;Consolidated with St. John's
I No. :57.
107 Mount .Jefferson ... )Garrotte ......... ,Tuolumne ....... !May 14,
11, 1876;Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
1
and Columbia No. 28, as 'fuolumne No. 8.
108 Owen ............ IScott 's Bar ....... !Siskiyou ....... .
14, 1857 !Oct.
15, l!l081Consolidated with North Star
No. 91.
109 Dibble ........... Omega .......... Nevada ......... 'May
1857 IScpt. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
114 Mt. Zion ........ Grizzly Flat ..... El Dorado ...... 'IM ay
1857 Oct.
11, 1911/'Consolidated with Palmyra No. l:6.
115 S~!nt Mark's ..... I!'~'.ldletown ...... A.mador ......... ,May
18~7 June
26, 1894 Revoked.
116 V. mdsor · ......... W mdsor ........ Sierra ........... IMay
18a7 ,May
18, 1861 Surrendered.
Folsom .......... l!,olsom .......... Sacramento ..... · JFeb.
1857*'Jan.
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito .....•.. Vallecito ........ Calaveras .. :~ Ma;y-_~- 1858 I.Jan.
5, 1859JSurrendered.

72
i3

Name.

EX TI NOT'

4 Berryman . . . . . . . .
. ..... Sacramento . . . . . .
19, 1850 ' .............. Name changed to .Tennings.
4 ,T ennings ......... Sacramento ...... Sacramento ......••••••..••.... May
6, 1856 Charter surrendered.
6 Sutter ........... Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... May 7, 1850 1May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
7 Davy Crockett .... San Prancisco .... San Prancisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 IAug. 18, 1852'Name changed to San Francisro
7 San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 IMay
13, 1859 Revoked.
11 Willamette ....... Portland ........ Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850 jNov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Fayette, Ore .. j •••••••••••••.••• 11\fay 9, 1851 Nov.,
15 La Fayette.......
Oregon.
Nashville ........ [Nashville ....... , El Dorado ....... ,Dec. 21, 1851* .............. Charter never issued.
Pacific .......... Valparaiso ...... Chili ............ May 5,
.............. Charter never issued.
28 Columbia ........ Columbia ....... Tuolumne ....... May 5
15, 1891 1Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
'
8 and Mt .•Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
1873 Surrendered.
5,
29 Diamond ......... Diamond Springs.
Dorado ...... · 1May
31 Mokelunrne ...... Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras ....... May
1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
5,
No. 78.
5, 185~1 Oct.
15, 1887 Revoked.
34 Santa Clara ....... Santa Clara ..... · 18.'anta Clara ...... May
36 Butte . . . . . . . .... Bidwell ......... Butte ........... May
3, 1854 Sept.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
3, 1854 ()et.
47 Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff .... Placer .......... May
15, 1897 Surrendered.
1
48 Grass Valley ...... Grass Valley ..... Nevad:t ......... May
3, 1854 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
49 Lebanon ........ San Franeisco .... San Francisco .... May
3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
52 Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ......... May
1864 Surrendered.
3, 185·1 Nov.
53 Franklin ......... Sacramento ..... Sacramento ...... May
10, 1856 Surrendered.
:i. 1854 ]\fay
54 Saint .Tames ...... .I am cs town ...... 'rnolumne
..... May
20, 1875 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Pcb.
63 Iowa Hill. ....... Iowa Hill. ....... Placer .. .. .... May
;1, 1855
29, 1857 Smrendered.
67 Minnesota . . . . . . Minnesota ...... Sierra ........... May
14, 1859 Surrendered.
2, 1855
69 Ind. Royal An·h .. Marysville ...... Yuba .......... .
2, 1855
2, 1855'1Name clianged to Corinthian No.. 9.
69 Corintliirrn ........ Marvsville ...... , Yu ha .......... .
1874 Consolidated with l\farysville No.
2, 1855
!l, as Corinthian No.· 9.
71 Nebraska ...... .
Bar ....
15, 1887 Consolidaterl with Tone No. 80.
2, 1855

No.

,:·•""-!"'

Yosemite ...... .
Oro Fino .....••••
Violet .......... .
Colusa .....•..•••
San Luis Obispo ...
Palmyra .....••.•
.Josephus .....••••
Rising Sun .....••
Carson .........••
Mount Carmel. .•••
Washoe .....•..••
Gibson ville ..•.••
Gilroy .....•.•••.
Pilot Hill .....••..
Virginia City ... .
Silver City ...... .
Silver Star ..•.••.
Esmeralda ..•.•••
Escurial ..••....•
Lander ..•.......
Alpine •.......•..
Claiborne ..•....•
Merced ........• , !Snelling ........ .
Aztlan ........••• IP:rescott ........ .

l:l3
J 37
138
142

148
151
lfi2
153

219
251
257

Fall River ....... IBur<7ettvi
Westport ....... .

3!J8

0
"i

:>

2l

0
::Il

:;;

t'

>-

()

-..:i

----""""

I\o. 277. c.n

of

Manila
386

Corregidor . . . . . .

of
Cavite ........... [Cavite

with Oxnard No. 341.

with"' oodland ~o. l5fJ

jurisdiction of

350

M2

......... .

0
ttJ

tJ
jurisd iCtion of

Solomon ........ .

z

>

0
::0

~

t:i

0

~

Cl

0

270
276
284
3.10

g

jurisdiction of

to Mosaic.

Pet:duma No.

jurisdiction of

~

~

~

Tucson

:n1

Nevada.

of Nevada.
of Nevada.
of Nevada.
of Nevada.
of Nevada.

of

26.

with :-<inc«rity No. rn2

Clara ..... .
Dorado ...... .
Te,. ..... .
Ter ..... .
Ter ..... .
Ter .... .
Ter ..... .
Ter ..... .

x

::'I

Dorado No . ..-3

No.

°'

(.J1

....

Green ville ...... .
Brotherhood ..... 11.1um:an
Arizona ......... .

263

218
223
227
238
239
210

....... .

Aren:rn .......... .
Latrobe ......... .
Paradise ........ .
Rocklin ......... .
Bodega ......... .
Pleasanton, ...... .
Maui .......... .
Contra Costa ..... .
Tyre ........... .
Pescadero ....... .
Equality ........ .

18:3
189
107

213

Arcturas •....... , \Petaluma ••.....

180

176
177

175

160
162
163
165
170
171
172

159

157
158

1:54
li55

Ionic ...........•
........•

121
1:!5
1:>0

No.

548

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICEltS

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

M. ·. \V. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

Sl~CI<; l'l'S OHGAXIZATIOX ON THE

Year
Elected.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Grand Master.

18Tll DAY OF APHIL, A. L. f)i-\50.
Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt. ....... •Caleb Ferm er.
•John A. Tutt ............. •Benjamin D. Hyam .. *E. F. w. Ellis.
•Benjamin D. Hyam ...... *Charles M. Radcliff .. *Adolphus Hollub.
*Charles !\I. Radcliff ...... •Townsend A. Thomas •John R. Crandall.
..Wil!iam H. Howard ..... *Nathaniel G. Curtis .. •Rector E. ·co le.
1855 ..William H. Howard ..... *Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Raymond .
1856 •\Villiam H. Howard ..... *John A Raymond ..... •Lemuel Lyon.
1857 *Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... *Charles Marsh ......• *Aaron D. Park.
1858 *Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... *Ph!lip w. Shepheard. •William McCormick.
1859 •Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... *Philip W. Shepheard. *Ebenezer Lane.
1860 *Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... *Philip w. Shepheard. *William c. Belcher.
1861 •James L. English ........ *William c. Belcher .. •John w. Harville.
1862 *\\"il1ia1n c. Belcher ...... *Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •John w. Harville.
1863 •William c. Belcher ...... *Gilbert B. Claiborne .• •Louis Cohn.
18ti4 *Willian1 c. Belcher ...... *Gilbert B. Claiborne ..
William A. Davies.
1S65 *Gilbert B. Claiborne .....
William A. Davies ... •Isaac s. Titus.
1866 *Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... *Henry H. Hartley .... •wm. H. Peterson.
"William A. Davies ....... •Henry H. Hartiey •... *Thomas Be<'k.
1867
1868 *Charles Marsh ........... *Leonidas E. Pratt. ... *Theodore G. Cockrill.
•Leonidas E. Pratt ........ •rsaac s. Titus ........ •John s. Ward.
186~
1870 •Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... *Isaac s. Titus ........ *Charles L. Wiggin.
1871 •Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... •Charles L. Wiggin ... *BenJ. H. Freeman.
187l •Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... *Benj. H. Fre<:>man ...
George C. Perkins.
1873 •Isaac s. 'l"'itus ..
George c. Perkins ... •John M. Browne.
George C. Perkins .......• •John M. Browne ..... *William B. Parker.
1874
1875 •John !\I. Browne ........• *Charles L. Wiggin ..• *Wiley J. Tinnin.
1876 •John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... *William S. Wells.
1871 •John !\L Browne ......... *Charles L. Wiggin ..• *William W. Traylor.
1878 *John :M. Browne ......... "William W. Traylor .. •vVilliam H. Crane.
1879 *William W. Traylor ......
Samuel c. Denson .... *Clay w. Taylor.
Samuel C. Denson ........ *Clay w. Taylor ...... •John Q. Adams.
1880
1881 *Clay w. Taylor .......... •John Q. Adams ...... •Jonathan D. Hines.
1882 *Clay "\Y. Taylor .......... •.Tonathan D. Hines ... *Edmund c. Atkinson.
1883 •Jonathan D. Hines ...... *Wiley J. Tinnin .....• *Edmund c. Atkinson.
1884 •Jonathan D. Hines ...... *Wiley J. Tinnin ...... *Edmund c. Atkinson.
..... *Edmnnd c. Atkinson. *Hiram N. Rucker.
1SB5 *\Yile,· J. Tinnin.
1886 *Edmund c. Atkinson ..... *Hiram N. Rucker .... *Morris M. Estee.
1887 *Hiram N. Hucker ........ •Morris M. Estee ..... •Alvah R. Conklin.
1888 *Morris M. Estee ......... •Alvah R. Conklin .... *William Johnston
1889 •).:f orris M. Estee ......... *William .Johnston .... *Charles R. Gritman.
1890 *AlYah R. Conklin ......... *William Johnston ...• *Charles R. Gritman.
1891 •William Johnston ........ "Charles Ray Gritman. •Henry S. Orme.
1892 *Charles R. Gritman
•Henry s. Orme ....... James B. Stevens.
1~9::!
*FTe1nr s. Orme ...........
James B. Stevens .... *Edward M. Preston.
James B. Stevens .•...... *Edward M. Preston .• William T. Lucas.
1894
1~:-1~
*f:dwanl !\!. Preston .....• William T. Luca~ ....
Thomas Flint.
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854

+ ••••••••

..

~

....

*Deceased

549

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer

Grand
Secretary.

•sashel Woods .......• •Levi Stowell........
•John H. Gihon ...... .
•Benj. s. Olds ...•.•.•. *Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi Stowell ......... .
•John R. McConnell ... *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .•.......
•Richard F. Knott ..•. •Addison Martin ...•.. •Levi Stowell ....... .
*Robert N. Wood ..... *Addison Martin .....• •Levi Stowell ........ .
*Samuel A. Merritt. .. *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ...... ·.·.
*Peter W. Randle .•... •Addison Martin ...•.. •Alex G. Abell .. ·····.
•John B. Bope ........ "Addison Martin ...... •Alex. G. Abeli .... ·
•James W. Bicknell. .• *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Thomas P. Hawley .• *Addison Martin ...•.• •Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Alvlnza Hayward ...• *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell. ...... .
•Caleb E. Wilcoxon ..• •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John B. Hewson ....• •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
William A. Davies ... •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Isaac S. Titus ........ •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... .
*Henry H. Hartley ...• •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Thomas Be<'k . . . . .
•James Laidley ....... •Alex G. Abell ...... .
*Leonidas E. Pratt. ..• •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... .
Frederick F. Barss ... •James Laidley ......•. *Alex G. Abell ....... .
"Richard Dale ........ •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Benj. H. Freeman .•. •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
Glolo. C. Perkins .....• •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John M. Browne ..... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... .
Chas. E. Mitchell ...• •James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell •.......
•wuey J. Tinnin .•... •.James Laidley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... .
•Jacob H. Neff .......• •James Laidley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Solon W. Craigue .... •James Laidley ........ *Alex. G. Abell. ...... .
*\Vm. H. Crane ........ •Molles Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Robert C. Broder ..•. *Moses Heller ........• *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*John Q. Adams ...... *Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Orrin W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Thomas .1. Bowers ... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
"George Hinds ..•..... *Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell .... ·.··
*Hiram N. Hucker .... •Moses Heller .....•... *Alex. G. Abell. ...... .
"Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller. ........ *Alex. G. Abell .•......
*Henry H. Knapp ..... *Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•A!vah R. Conklin .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell •.......
•wm. Johnston ....... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Marcus D. Boruck ... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Henry S. Orme ...... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ...•....
•Henry S. Orme ...... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
James B. Stevens .... *Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson ..... .
•Edward M. Preston •. •Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
Wm. T. Lucas ....... "'Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
Thomas Flint
"Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
Frank M.
*Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

550

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M.·. W.

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATIO~ ON THE

551

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
18TII DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

----------========'--'=='-'-===========
Year.
1896
1897
1898
1899
l~ll(I

1901
b02
1903
1304
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
l~IH

l!I] ;1

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

William T. Lucas ........
Thomas Flint. ....... Frank M. Angellotti.
Charles L. Patton.
Thomas Flint .............. Frank M. Angellotti ..
Frank M. Angellotti. .....
Charles L. Patton .... *James A. Foshay.
"William s. Wells.
Charles L. Patton ........ *.James A. Foshay ....
*.Tan1e.s A. Foshay .........
Orrin S. Henderson.
William s. Wells .....
Charles W. Nutting.
William s. Wells ..•.....•
Orrin s. Henderson ..
George w. Hunter.
Orrin s. Henderson ......
Charles W. Nutting ..
Motley H. Flint.
Charles W. Nutting ......
George w. Hunter ...
George w. Hunter .......
Motley H. Flint. .....
Edward H. Hart.
George M. Perine.
Motley H. Flint. .........
Edward H. Hart. ....
Edward H. Hart. ........
Geo. M. Perine ....... *Reuben H. Lloyd.
George M. Perine ........ *Reuben H. Llo)·d ....
Oscar Lawler.
Oscar Lawler
•w. Frank Pierce ..... Dana R. Weller.
•w. Frank Pierce ......... Dana R. Weller ...... Alonzo J. Monroe.
Dana R. Weller .......... Alonzo J. Monroe ....
Wm. P. Filmer.
Alonzo J. Monroe ........
Wm. P. Filmer ......
John D. Murphey.
\Vm. P. Filmer .........•
John D. Murphey ....
Benj. F. Bledsoe.
John D. Murphey ........ Benj. F. Bledsoe .....
Albert G. Burnett.
Benj. F. Bledsoe .........
Albert G. Burnett. ...
Francis V. Keesling.
Albert G. Burnett .......
Francis v Keesling ..
\Ym. Rhodes Hervey.

············

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Charles L. Patton ... *Edward Coleman .... .
*James A. Fusha)· .... 'Edward Coleman .... .
\Yilliarn ::;_ \Yells .... 'Edward Coleman .... .
Orrin :-;_ Henderson .. 'Edward Coleman .... .
Charles \\'. Nutting .. 'Edward Coleman .... .
George \Y. Hunter ... 'Edward Coleman .... .
;\lotle)· H. Flint ..... *Edward Coleman .... .
Edward 11. Hart. .... •Edward Coleman .... .
George ;\[. Perine .... *Edward Coleman .... .
*Reuben IT. Lio)«!. ... *Edward Coleman .... .
Oscar La,Yler ....... "Edward Coleman .... .
*\Y. Frank Pier<'e .... •Edward Coleman .... .
Alonzo .J. :\lonroe .... *Edward Coleman .... .
\Yilliarn P. Filmer. "''Edward Coleman .... .
.Tohn D. J\Iurphe)· .... *Edward Coleman .... .
Benj. F. Blell~ne .... *Edward Coleman .... .
·Albert G. Burnett ... *Edward Coleman .... .
Fran('h:: Y. Kl•esling .. \Vm. P. Filmer ..... .
\Y. Rhorles Hene.\· .. \Vm. P. Filmer ...... .
Bradford \Vehster ... \Vm. P. Filmer ..... .

Grand
Secretary

Grand
Lecturer.

*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
*George Johnson ......
John Whicher ........
John Whicher ........
John Whicher ........
John Whicher ........
John Whicher ......
.Tohn Whicher ........
.fohn \Vhicher ........
.John \Vhicher .......

\\'m. H. Edwards.
\Vm. H. Edwards.
\Vm. H. Edwards.
\Vm. H. Edwarde.
\Vm. H. Eel wards.
\Vm. H. Edwards.
\Vm. H. Ed·warc1s.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
'l,homas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.

552

GRAND LODGE OF CAI,IFORNIA

GRA::-ID LOD<;ES OF THE U:>ITED STATES A::-ID BRITISH AMERICA.

t:HtAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH rL\[ER[CA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand l..odges.

Grand Secretaries.

Residences.

Organized

Alabama ...•.•..•• George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery .. , , .. June 15, 1821
Albertr> ........... Ueo. ?.facdonalct ....... Calgarv ........... Oct. 1:!, 1~10;)
Arizona .........•. George J. Roskruge ..• Tucson ......•..... Mar. ~5. 1882
Arkansas ..........Fay Hempstead ...... Little Rocle •....... Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia . .. \V. A. DeWolf Smith .. Xew \Vestrninster. .Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ............ R L. Gunn ............ Hamilton .......... Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado ...........Charles H. Jacobson ... Denver , .........•. Aug.
2, 1861
Connecticut ......• George A. Kies ......... Hartford •....... , .July
8, 1789
Delaware .......... V. V. Harrison .......• W!lmlngton ........ June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbia •. Arvine W. Johnston .. ,'Washington ....... Feb. 19. 1811
Florida ......•...•• Wilber P. Webster ...• Jacksonville ....... July
5, 1830
Georgia ........... W. A. Wolihin ........Macon ............. Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho ...........•••Theophilus W. RandallBoise .............. Dec. 17, 1867
llllnois ............. Isaac Cutter .......... Camp Point ....... April 6, 1840
Indiana ............ Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis ...... Jan. 12, 1818
Iowa ........... , .• Newton R. Parvin .....Cedar Rapids ...... Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas .........•.• Albert K. Wilson ...... Topeka ..... , ...... Mar. 17. 1856
Kentucky ••.•...• .,Dave Jackson .........Louisville .......... Oct.
8, 1800
Louisiana ..........John A. Davilla ....... New Orleans ...... June 20, 1812
Maine ............. Stephen Berry ........ Portland .......... June 1, 1820
Manitoba .......... James A. Ovas ......•. Wlnnepeg ..... , ... May 12, 1875
Maryland ........• George Cook ........•. Baltimore ......... April 17, 1887
Massachusetts ...• f<'red'k \V, Hamilron .. Boston , ........... Mar.
8, 1777
Michigan •.•......• Lou B. Winsor ........ Reed City .... , .... Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota ........• John J;'ishel ........... Saint Paul ........ Feb. 23. 1863
Mississippi •......• Frederick G, Speed .... Vicksburg ..... , ... July 27, 1818
Missouri ........... John R. Parson ....... St. Louis .......... Ma,.
4, 1821
Montana ........... Cornelius Hedges, Jr .. Helena ..... , ...... Jan. 24, 1866
::-.l'ebraska ....•••••• Francis E. White ....• Omaha •........... Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada ............Edward D. Vanderleit!J.Carson •........... Jan. 16, 186&
New Brunswick .•• J. Twining Hartt ..... Saint John ..•...... Oct. 10, 1867
New Hampshire ...• Harry M. Cheney .....Concord ........... July
8. 1789
.New Jersey ....... Theo. B. Townle)« .... Trenton ........... Dec. 18, 1786
Sew Mexico ......• Alpheus A. Keen .....• Albuquerque ...... Aug.
7. 1877
New York ......... Edward .M. L. Ehlers.New York ......... Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina .... John C. Drewry ......• Raleigh ............ Dec. 12, 1177
North Dakota ....• Walter L. Stockwell ... Fargo .............. June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia .....•• Thomas Mowbray ....• Halifax ...••••.... Jan. 21. 1866
Ohio .............. Jacob H. Bromwell. .. Cincinnati
..... Jan.
7, 1808
Oklahoma ........• \Vm. M. Anderson .... Oklahoma
... l\"m'. 10, l!JOH
Oregon ... : .....•.• James F. Robinson .... Portland .......... Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsylvama ...... John A. Perry.,., .....Philadelphia ...... Sept. 25, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .• \Valt«r P. Doull ....... Clrnrlottetown., .... June 24, 1875
Quebec ...........• Will H. Whyte ....... Montreal .......... Oct. 20. 1863
Rhode Island ..... s. Penrose Williams .. Providence ........ June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan ..•.. J. M. Shaw ...........• Regina ......... , .. Aug.
9, 1906
South Carolina .... o. Frank Hart. .......Columbia ..........Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota .... Geo. A. Pettigrew ..... Sioux Falls ........ Juiv 21. 1775
'I'ennMsee ..•••...• Stith M, Cain ......... Nashville .......... Dec. 27, 1813
Texas ............. w. B. Pierson ........ \Vaco ............. Dec. 20, 1837
Utah .............. F1('ernan A. McCarty.Salt Lake City ..... Jan. 17. 1872
Vermont ..........• Henry H. Ross ...•..• Burlington ........ Oct. 14. 1794
Virginia ..........• Charles A. Nesbitt .... Richmond ... , .....Oct. 13, 1778
Washington ......• Horace W. Tyler ...... Tacoma , . , . , ....... Dec.
8, 1858
\Vest Virginia ....• John M. Collins .. , ...• Charleston, ........ May 11, 1865
Wisconsin ........• William W. Perry ....• Milwaukee ........ Dec. 18, 1843
'Wyoming .......... .ros. :\f. Lonae'" ......• Casper ............ DeC'. ll>. l '>7 I

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ..•............ Mendocino.
Aeacia . : . . . . . . . . . . . 92 Coloma .............. El Dorado.
Adin .............. 250 Adin ................ Modoc.
Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek ....... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville .......... Alameda.
Alcatraz ........... 244 Oakland •............ Alameda.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra •.......... Los Angeles.
Alisa! .............. 321 Pleasanton ...... : .... Alameda.
Alpha ............. .431 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport ........•• Mono.
Alturas ............ 248 Alturas ..............Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador . , .......... 65 Jackson ............. Amador.
Analieim ........... 207 Anaheim ............ Orange.
Anchor ............ 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ............. Contra Costa.
Apollo ............. 396 Alameda ............. Alameda.
Arcata ............. 106 Arcata .............. Humboldt.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande •.....•San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ......... .414 Los Angeles ........ ., Los Angeles.
Artesia ............ 377 Artesia .............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar ........ .' .... 306 Colton ...............San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davis ............... Yolo .
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa •.............. Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield ........... Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Bay View ........ .401 Oakland •............ Alameda.
Bear Mountain ..... 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ..............Solano.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley ..........•. Alameda.
H<>tlilehem ......... 453 San Frani'iseo ......... San Franeiseo
Blaf'krner .......... 442 San Diego ........... San Diego.
Bodie ............. 252 Bodie ............... Mono.
Brawley .......... .402 Brawley ............. Imperial.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ...........Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .......... 225 E~st Oakland .......• Alameda.

553

GRAND LODGE OF CALJFOR.'lIA

55-t

ALPllAB!-;TICAL

LIST OF LODGE8

Lodge.
Lodge.

"
I

!

No.

Post Office.

County.

Buckeye ........... 195 Winters ....•........ Yolo.
Buena Park ........ 357 Buena Park ...•...... Orange.
Burbank ........... 406 Burbank ..•......... Los Angeles.
Burlingame ....... .400 Burlingame ..•••...•. San Mateo.
Calexico ........... 412 Calexico ............. Imperial.
California . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco ....•••. San Francisco.
Calriveras ......... 78 San ,\ndreas ......•.. Calaveras.
Callayomi ......... 282 Middletown .........• Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga ..........•. Napa.
( 'nrpintcria ....... .444 Uirpinteria .......... Santa Barbara.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett •..........•. Contra Costa.
Charity ........... 362 Campbell ...........• Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ...... .410 Berkeley ............. Alameda.
Chico .............. 111 Chico .............•• Butte.
Chino Valley ..... .427 Chino ............... San Bernardino .
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena .......•. Mendocino.
.
CI a rem on t ......... 436 Claremont ........... Los Angeles.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat .......... Placer.
Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake .......•. Lake.
Clinton •........... 119 Igo ................. Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis ............... Fresno.
Coalinga ........... 387 Coalinga .......•.•... Tulare.
Concord ........... 117 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Confidence .....•... 203 Castroville ....••.... Monterey.
Consuelo .......... 325 Escondido ......•.... San Di,..go.
Colusa .•.......... 240 Colusa .............•. Colusa.
Cori~thian . . . . . • . . .
9 Marysville .....•••... Yuba.
Corona .......•.... 324 Pasadena ........•.•. Los Angeles.
Coronado .......... -±41 Coronado ............ San Diego.
Covelo •.........•. 231 Covelo ..........•...•Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina .............. I,os Angeles.
Crescent ........... 4'5 Crescent City ..•..... Del Norte.
Crnekcr ........... .454 Daly City ............ San Mateo.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ..••... ·San Francisco.
Curtis ............. J 40 Cloverdale ..•........ Sonoma.
Delano ............ 309 Delano ......•.••...• Kern.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba .............. Tulare.
Doric . · ........... 216 San Francisco .•.....• San Francisco.
Downey ........... 220 Downey ........••... Los Angeles.
Drytown .......•.. 174 Plymouth ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir ......... 297 Dunsmuir •••......... Siskiyou.
Durant ........•... 268 Berkeley ..•......•.. Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... 422 Eagle Rock .......... I~os Angeles.

No.

Post Office.

County.

East Belt .........• 391 Tuolumne •.......•.. Tuolumne.
East Gate .......•. 290 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Eden ...•.......... 113 San Leandro ......... Alameda.
Eel River •......... 147 .b'ortuna ............. Humboldt.
El Centro •.•........ 384 El Centro ............ [mperial.
Elk Grove ........• 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
Elsinore ........... 289 1'Jlsinore ............. Riverside.
Elysian .. . . . . . . .... 418 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise •........ 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Eucalyptus ........ 243 Haywards ........... Alameda.
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ............. Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ........... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........ San Francieco.
Exeter ............ 424 Exeter .............• Tulare.
Fairmount ........ .435 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Fallbrook ......... 317 Fallbrook ........... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Oak la ml ............. Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fillmore .•........... Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest ............• 66 Allegheny .........•. Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland ...........•Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ...San Mateo.
Fraternity ......... 399 San .Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Fresno .•.......... 247 Fresno ............... Fresno.
Friendship •........ 210 San .Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .......... 336 Oakland ..•........• Alameda.
Fullerton .•......... 339 Fullerton ...........• Orange.
Gali . . . . . ......... 267 Galt ................ Sacramento.
Gardena ......•... 372 Gardena ............. Los Angeles.
Georgetown .......• 2G Georgetown .......... El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp •.....•. Tuolumne.
Germania ........ .438 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Glendora ......... .404 Glendora ............ Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ....... 30 San Francisco ........ San Frandsco.
Oolden \Vest ....... .455 San Francisco ....... San PralH•isco.
Golden State ...... 338 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill • . . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln .............. Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.

SSS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

556

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.

Lodge.

No.

Po11t Ofil.ce.

County.

Granite ......•.... 222 Rocklin •............ Placer.
Gravel Range ...... 59 Camptonville ........ Yuba.
Guadalupe ......... 237 Guadalupe .....•..•.. Santa Barbara.
Hammonton ........ 433 Hammonton ......... Yuba.
Hanford .......... 279 Hanford ............. Kings.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian .........• 21 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......... Amador.
Hermann .......... 127 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
He8perian ......... 26-± Santa Maria .........Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..... 382 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hill's Perry ....... 236 Newman ............•Stanislaus.
Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . • . 43 El Dorado ..........• EI Dorado.
Henry S. Orme ..... 458 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Hollenbeek ........ 319 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood ....•... 355 Hollywood ........... Los Angeles.
Holtville .......... .425 Holtville ............ Imperial.
Honolulu ......... .409 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith ............ Plumas.
Hornitos ........... 98 llornitos ............. Mariposa.
Howard ..........• 9-0 Yreka ............... Siskiyou.
Humboldt ......... 79 Eureka ............. Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown . . . . . . . . 51 Colfax •............. Placer.
Imperial ........... 390 Imperial .............Imperial.
Inglewood .......... 421 Inglewood ........... Los Angeles.
Inyo .............. 221 Independence ........ Inyo.
Ione .............. 80 Ione ................ Amador.
Jefferson .......... 97 Laporte ............. Plumas.
,Janesville .......... 232 L11ssen ..............Lassen.
Jewel ............. 374 San Franeisco ........ San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ............... Santa Clara.
K<'nnett . . . . . . . . . .456 Kennett ............. Shasta.
Kerman ........... .420 Kerman ............. Fresno.
Keystone .......... 161 Milton .............. Calaveras.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ................ Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol ........... Sonoma.
La Mesa ........... 407 La Mesa ............. San Diego.
Lancaster ......... .437 Lancaster . . . . ...... Los Angeles.
Landmark ......•. 253 Ma(lison ............. Yolo.

No.

Post Office.

County.

..... 446 Puente ............. Los .'lngeles.
Las Palm as ........ 366 Fresno ...............Presno.
Lassen ............ 149 Susan ville . . . . . . . . . . Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows .............. Glenn.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ............ Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara .......... Santa Clara.
La Pnelllt'

Lindsay ........... 416 Lindsay ............. Tulare.
Live Oak . . . . . . . . . 61 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lo(li ................ San Joaquin.
Lompoc ........... 262 Lompoc .............. Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angele11.
Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos ........... Merced.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton ............ Sierra.
Madera ............ 280 :Madera .............. Madera.
Madison ............ 23 Grass Valley ......... Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Maricopa .......... 434 Marieopa ........... Kern.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
l\fariposa . . . . . . . . . . 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez ............ Contra Costa.
Mnxwell ........... 2SS Maxwell ............. Colusa.
l\lcCloud ........ ; .430 ::\JcCloud ............. Siskiyou.
McKinley .......... 347 ltiehmond ........... Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino.
Meridian .......... 182 Arbuckle ............ Colusa.
Midway ........... .426 Taft ................ Kern.
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mizpah ............ 378 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill ..•. 298 Mokelumne Hill •.••.. Calaveras.
Moliri'o ............ 150 Tehama ............. Tehama.
Mon eta ............ 405 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
J\fontchE'llo ........ 451 ::\Iontebello .......... Los Angeles.
Monrovia ......... 308 Monrovia ............ Los Angeles.
Monterey •......... 217 Monterey ............ Monterey.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton ............ San Joaquin.
Mosaic .........•.. 218 Livermore ........... Alameda.
:\fonnt ni:ihlo ...... 448 Concord ............. Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville •..•...... Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ..... 44 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
. ...•..•..• '-\nn .J oaqnin.
:\fount. o,o ...... r. n. Trnry

557

558
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Post Office.

County.

Mountain Shade ... 18 Downieville .......... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Natoma ........... 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Needles ............ 326 Needles ............. San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City ......... Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Paskenta ............ Tehama.
Nicolaus .......... 129 Wheatland ........... Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley ............. Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell ........ ,Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ............. Shasta.
North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ........... Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ............ Los Angeles.
Oakdale ........... 275 Oakdale ............. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ......... 215 Alameda ............• Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park ....... 369 Oceanpark ............ Los Angeles.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ........... San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 Tulare .............. Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario ........... 301 Ontario ............. San Bernardino.
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's ....... ;" .. Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange .............. Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Orland ............ 265 Orland .............. Glenn.
Orosi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383 Orosi ................ Tulare.
OroYille ............ 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
Pacific ............ 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove .......•• Monterey.
Paeifie ............ 136 Watsonville .......... Santa Cruz.
Palestine .......... 351 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Palmyra .......... 26 Placerville ........... El Dorado.
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto ............ Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes ....... 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union .... 17 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Park .............. 4+9 San Franriseo ........ San Franriseo.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Paso Ro bl es ........ 286 Paso Ro bl es .......... San Luis Obispo

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOTINIA
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ..............tPlacer.
Pentalpha ......... 202 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Perris ............ .411 Perris ............... RiYerside.
Petaluma .......... 180 Petaluma ............ Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino.
Pinole ............. 353 Pinole ............... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg ......... .429 Pittsburg ............ Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Quincy .............• Plumas.
Pomona ........... 246 Pomona ............. Los Angeles.
Porterville ......... 303 Porterville . . . . . . . . . . Tulare.
Presidio ........... 354 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ramona ........... 457 Alhambra ............ Los Angele's.
Reading ........... 254 Redding ...........•• Shasta.
Redland1 .......... 300 Redlands ............. San Bernardino.
Redondo .........•. 328 Redondo ............. Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City ........ San Mateo.
Reedley ........... 304 Reedley ............. Fresno.
Richmond ......... 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista .......... 208 Rio Vista ............ Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star ........ 83 Forest Hill .......... Placer.
RiYerbank ......... 459 Ri,·erbank ........... Stanislaus.
Rose's Bar ......... 89 Smartsville ...........Yuba.
Ro~eville ........... 433 Roseville .............. Placer.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ............. Sonoma.
Sacramento .......• 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena ......• 93 St. Helena ........... Napa.
Saint John's ......• 37 Yreka ...............,Siskiyou.
Salinas ............ 204 Salinas .............. Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister ............. San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura ............. Ventura.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego ........... San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas ........... Los Angeles.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger .............. Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino ....... San Bernardino.
Sa7' Fernando ...... 343 Fernando ............ Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
San lacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ......... Riverside.
San Joaquin ....... 19 Stockton ............. San Joaquin.
San Jose ........... 10 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo ........... San Mateo.
San Miguel ....... 285 San Miguel .......... San Luis Obispo
San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasrtdena ............ Los Angeles.

559

560
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

San Pedro ......... 332 San Pedro ........... Los Angeles.
San ta Ana ......... 241 San ta An'\ ........... Orange,
Santa Barbara ..... 192 Santa Barbara •...... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ....... 302 Kings City ......... Monterey.
Santa Monica ...... 307 Santa Monica ........ Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ....... 291 Santa Paula ......... Ventura.
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... Sonoma.
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria ............. San Luis Obispo.
Sdwfh•ld .......... c!4'l S('hofield Barracks .... Hawaiian Ter.
Selma ............. 277 Selma .•............. Fresno.
Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Sierra 1fadre ...... .408 Sierra Madre ......... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ...... 184 Sierraville ........... Sierra.
Sih·eyville ......... 201 Dixon .............. Solano.
Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego .......... San Diego.
Sih-<?r Trowel. ...... 415 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville •......... Plumas.
Sisson ............. 310 Sisson ............... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford .......... Colusa.
Solano ........... 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg .....•... Sonoma.
Sou thnn California. 278 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........•Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 367 South Pasadena ...... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
South West ........ 283 National City ........ San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
:-:tanrb nl .......... 440 Oakland ............ Alameda.
Stanislaus ......... 206 Modesto ......•.••... Stanislaus.
Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun .............. Solano.
Summit ........... 112 Knights Ferry ....... Stanislaus.
Sunset ............. 352 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Surprise Yalley .... 235 Cedarville ........... J\fodoe.
Table ]\fountain .... 124 Cherokee ............ Butte.
Tehachapi ......... 313 Tehachapi ........... Kern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona .............. Riverside.
Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma ............. Sonoma.
Texas ............. 46 San Juan ........... San Benito.
Ton:1 ll«c' . . • . . . . . • • -147 Torrnnee ............. Los Angeles.
Traver ............ 294 Kingsburg .......... Fresno.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Lodge.

:-<o.

Post Olfice.

County.

Trinity .....••....• 27 Weaverville ..........Trinity.
Truckee ........•.. 200 Truckee ............. Nevada.
Tuolumne . . • . . . . . . . 8 Sonora .........•.... Tuolumne.
Turlock ............ 395 Turlock .......••...• Stanislaus.
Tuscan ............ 261 Williams ............ Colusa.
Tyrian ............ 439 Manteca ............ San Joaquin.
Union .••.•..•..... 58 Sacramento .......•.. Sacramento.
Unity .•........... 368 Glendale ............. Los Angeles.
University .....•... 394 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Upland ............. 419 Upland .............. San Bernardino.
Vacaville ........•. 134 Vacaville ............ Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles .........•Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Van Nuys .......... 450 Van Nuys ........... Los Angeles.
Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Red Bluff •........... Tehama.
Veteran ...•....•.. 373 Sawtelle •............ Los Angeles.
Vfaalia ............ 128 Visalia .............. Tulare.
Vitruvius .•........ 145 Bloomfield ........... Sonoma.
Volcano ........... 56 Volcano ..........••• Amador.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Waucoba ......... .413 Big Pine ............. Inyo.
Welcome .......... 255 Lemoore ......•..... Kings.
Western Star . . . . . . 2 Shasta .............. Shasta.
West Gate ......... 335 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Whittier •.•........ 323 Whittie;· ............. Los Angeles.
Willits ..•..•....... 365 Willits .............. Mendocino.
Wilmington •....... 198 Wilmington ........•. Los Angeles.
Wilshire .......... .44:3 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ....... 287 Bishop .............. Inyo.
Woodbridge .....•.. 131 Woodbridge ....•.... San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ..........• Yolo.
Yerba Buena ...... .403 Oakland ...........•. Alameda.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo ................ Yolo.
York .............. 423 Watts , .............. Los Angeles.
Yosemite .......... 99 Merced ............. Merced.
Yount ............. 12 Napa ................ Napa.
Yuba .............. 39 Marysville ........... Yuba.

561

LOCATION OF LODGES

562

GRA!-<'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Adin .............•••...• Adin ....................... 250
Alhambra ........... , .•• Alhambra ......•........... 322
.\lh:.llnhn1 . , ............ lfarnowl ................... .457
Alameda •..........••••. Oak Grove .................. 215
''
.....•......... Apollo ···········~··········396
Alkghany ....•••...•.••• Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 66
Alturas .•........•••...• Alturas .............•...... 248
Anahcim .........••.•••• Anaheim ................... 207
Anderson ....••••••...••• Mount Shasta ..........•.•.. 281
Angels Camp •.•...••..•• Bear Mountain ...•.•....... 76
Antioeh ..•••....••••••.. Antioch ......•.....•....... 175
Arroyo Grande •....••..•• Arroyo •.......••........... 27 4
Auburn ••......••••..•••• Eureka •........•.....•..... 16
Arbuckle ................ Meridian ................... 182
Arcata ...•........ , • , ••• Arcata ...•.......•••....... 106
Artesia , ..... , , , ...•...•• Artesia ..•...•.•...•..... ·.•. 377
Azusa ......•.• , • , .••.••• Azusa , , •.....••............ 305
Bakersfield ...............Bakersfield .•............... 224
Beckwith •..•.•...•..• , •• Hope .....•......•.......... 234
Benicia .....• , ...... , , ••• Benicia . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . • 5
Berkeley .....• , • , , , .•.•• Durant •.....•.............. 268
Berkeley ..•.....•••••••. Berkeley .••................ 363
Berkeley ................ Charter Rock .............. .410
Big Pine ................ Waucoba ................... 413
Biggs .....•.....• , , , .••• Emmanuel •.•.....•........• 318
Bishop ...•.......••...•• Winnedumah .....•.•....... 287
Bloomfiehl ..•.••....••••• Yitruvius .....•...•..•.•... 145
Bodie .........•.•..••.•• .Bodie ...•.....•..•.•....... 252
Brawley ..••.•..•••••••.• Brawley ..•........•....... .402
Brentwood ..•••••.• , .•••• Brentwood .......•.... , .•.. 345
Bridgeport ............... Alta ..........•...•....•... 333
Buena Park .............. Buena Park ................ 357
Burbank ................. Burbank .................... 406
Burlingame .............. Burlingame ................ .400
Calexico ................. Calexico ................... .412
Calistoga .........•••••.• Calistoga •..........••... , .. 233
Cambria .......•..•••• , •• San Simeon ........•••...•.. 196

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Campbell •...•••.•••••••. Charity ...........•..•..•.. 362
Camptonville ............ Gravel Range ............... 59
C'11rpintt•ria .............. ('arpinteria ................. 444
Castroville ••••••••••••••• Confidence ..................203
Cedarville •..•••••••••••• Surprise Valley , .....•...... 235
Centerville •..•.•••••••••• Alameda ................... 167
Cherokee .....••. , ••••••• Table Mountain ..........•. 124
Chinese Camp •.•••••••••• George Washington .•.... , .• 62
Chico •••..•• , , •••••••••••Chico .....••.. , . , • , ••. , , .•. 111
Chino ....•...••••.• , ••••• Chino Valley ............... .427
Claremont ..............• Claremont .................. 436
Cloverdale ••••••••••••• , .Curtis •...........••.•..•... 140
Clovis .................•. Clovis ...................... 417
Coalinga ...•....••••••• , , Coalinga .........••.•.•••.. 387
Colfax ....•••••••••••••••Illinoistown ••..........••.. 51
Corona .•••.•. , •• , ••••• , •Temeseal .....••............ 314
Courtland •••..•••••••••• .Franklin .....•..••••••...•. 143
Covelo •...•.••••••.••••• ,Covelo .....•.••••.....••.•.. 231
Colusa ....•..•.•• , ••••••• Colusa •....•.••.......•..... 240
Colton ..•••..••••••.•••• .Ashlar ............•......... 306
Covina ...••...••••.•• , , •• Covina ...........•..•...... 334
Compton .................Anchor ..................... 273
Coloma ...•.•...•...•.••• o\.cacia ........•..•........•• 92
Concord ..................Mt. Diablo ................ .4A8
Corning .....••.•.••••••• Olivet .......•............•. 364
Coronado ...............• Coronado ................... 44 l
Crescent City ............ Crescent ................... 45
Crockett .................Carquii:iez ....•....•.• , ...... 337
Daly City . . . . .......... Crocker .................... 454
Davis ................... Athens ..................... 228
Delano ••••...•••••.•••.• Delano ...•.......•......... 309
Dinuba ..•••.•••.•••••••• Dinuba .....•..........•.... 385
Dixon •....••••••••••••••Silveyville ..•..•..•.•....... 201
Downey ...•.••.••••••••• Downey ••......•• , ......... 220
Downie,·ille .............. Mountain Shade ••.•.......• 18
Duteh Flat •••••••.•.•••• Clay ........................ 101
Dunsmuir ................ Dunsmuir ................... 297
Eagle Rock •••....••.....• Eagle Rock .....•..••......• 422
Elk Grove ••••..•.••••••• Elk Grove ...•..•....•. , .... 173
Elsinore .•.•••••..••••••• Elsinore •..•.••.•..•.•••.... 289
El Centro •.•••.••••••.••• EI Centro •..•.• , •••••...•.•. 384
El Dorado •••..•••••.• , •• Hiram ..••....•..•..•..•..• 43
El Monte •••••.. , .•...•• ,Lexington •...•••..•..•.••. , 104

563

LOCATION OF LODGES

564
Post Ofllce.

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNlA
No.

Eseondids •...........••••Consuelo ........... · · · . · · · · 325
Etna ~lills .............. Evening Star ............... 186
Eureka .................. Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Exeter ..................• Exeter ................. · · · .424
Fallbrook ......•.......• .Fallbrook •................ · .317
Fernando ...............• San Fernando ...•........... 343
Ferndale •..............• .Ferndale ...•....•........... 193
Fillmore .....•..........• Fillmore ............ · . · · . · · .379
Forbestown .............•Forbestown .........•. · .... · 50
Folsom ................• ,Natoma ............ · · ·. · · · · 64
Fort Bidwell ............• North East ........... · ..... 266
Fort Bragg .............. Fort Bragg •................ 361
Fort .Jones ..............• North Star ................. 91
Forest Hill .............• Rising Star ................. 83
Fortuna ................. Eel River .................. 147
Fresno •................• .Fresno ..................... 24 7
''
.................. Las Palmas ... • ............. 366
Fullerton ...•...........•Fullerton •....•..... · · · ... · · 339
Galt ...............•...• ,Galt ........................ 267
Gardena ................. Gardena ............. · · ..... 372
Georgetown .............• Georgetown .......... · · · · · · · 25
Gilroy ..................• Keith .••.....•..... · · ·. · · · .187
Glendale •••............•• Unity ..•...... · · · · · · · · · · · · .368
Glendora ...........•... ,Glendora ............. · .. · . .404
Grafton ................• Grafton ...........•. · · ... · .141
Grass Valley •••.........• Madison .................. · • 23
Gr.eenville ............... Sincerity ................... 132
Gridley .................• North Butte .........•...... 230
Guadalupe ..............• Guadalupe .................. 237
Guerneville .............. Mount .Jackson ............. 295
Hammonton ............. Hammonton ......... ; ...... 433
Hanford .................Hanford .............•...... 279
Haywards •.............. Eucalyptus ................. 243
Healdsburg .............. Sotoyome ... .- ............... 123
Hilo. T. H .............. .,Kilauea .....................330
Hor~itos ................. Hornitos ...............•.. : 98
Hollister ......•.........•San Benito ................. 211
Hollywood ............... Hollywood .......•.•........ 355
Holtville ................• Holtville ................... 425
Honolulu, T. H ............Hawaiian ................. · 21
Honolnln, T. H ............Oceanic .................... 371
Honolulu. T. H ............Honolulu ................... 409
Huntingt,on Bea.eh •....... Huntington Beach ....... • ... 38G

Post Otflce.

Lodge.

565
No.

Huntington Park .........• Rising Light ................ 397
Igo ................•...•• Clinton ..................... 119
Imperial ................. Imperial ..................•. 390
Independence ...........•lflyo .....................•..221
Inglewood ...... , ......... Inglewood ..............•.. .421
Ione ..................... Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jackson ................. Amador .................... 6:1
Kennett ................. Kennett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... 4;'i6
Kerman .................. Kerman .................... 420
Kingsburg .............•• Traver ..................... 294
Kings City ..............• Santa Lucia ................ 302
Knights Ferry .........•• Summit ..................... 112
Lakeport ...•.•........•• Hartley .................... 199
La Mesa ................ La Mesa ................... .407
Lan~aster . . . . . . . . ...... I1aneaster .................. 437
Laporte ..........••...• ,Jefferson ..... , ............. 97
I1assen ...................Janes,·ille . . . .............. 232
Lemoore ...............•• W eleome ................... 255
Lincoln .................• Gold Hill ................... 32
Linden .................. Valley ..................... 135
Lindsay ................. Lindsay .................... 416
Livermore .............•• Mo!laic . . . . . . ............. 218
• I,odi •....... ·.......••.••• Lodi . . . . . . . . . ............. 256
Lompoc ...........••...•• Lompoc . . . . . . . .............262
Lower Lake ............. Clear Lake .................. 183
Long Beach .........•••.• Long Beach ................. 327
Palos Verdes ................ 389
Los Angeles ......•....... Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
''
............. .VVilmington .............. ~ .. . 198
''
.............. . Pentalpha .
202
"
........ .; ......... . . Southern California ..... ,. .. . 278
{'
...... ,. .............. East Gate .................. 290
''
............ ,. .Hollenbeck ............ ~ .... 319
''
.............. . South Gate . ~ ................ 320
....... , .....• Vallee de France ............ 329
"
.............. \Vest Gate . . . . . . . . . ........ 335
.............. Palestine ................... 351
"
............. ,Sunset .....•............... 352
"
............. ,Golden State ................ 358
.............. !.:lizpah ..................... 378
. . ........... Highland Park .............. 382
.............. West Lake .................. 392
.............• University .................. 394
''

..............

I

9'

..................

-------------~···~----·

LOCA TIO!\

566
Post Office.

OF

Lodge.

LODGES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No.

Los Angeles ..............Moneta .•.................•• 405
.............. Arlington •................. 414
.............. Silver Trowel. .............. 415
.............. Elysian ..................... 418
.............. Germania .................. 438
"
.............. Wilshire . . . . . . . . . . .
. .... 445
"
''

.............. Henry S. Orn1e ............. -JJ58

Los Banos ............... Los Banos .................. 312
Los Gatos ................ Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton ...........•.•.••Loyalton ................... 359
Manteca ....•........... Tyrian ..................... 439
Maricopa ............... Maricopa .................. 434
Marysville .............•. Corinthian . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . 9
''

........... ... Yuba ....................... 39

Madison ........•. ·...••.• Landmark .................. 253
Maxwell ....•.•......••.• Maxwell .................... 288
Madera ......•.....•...•• Madera ..................... 280
Mariposa ................ Mariposa ................... 24
Martinez .................Martinez .................... 41
Mccloud ................ McCloud ................... 430
Merced .................• Yosemite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Mendocino .............••~Iendorino ................. l/B
Middletown .............•Callayomi .................. 282
Milton ...........•.....•.Keystone ................... 161
Mill Valley .............. Mill Valley ................. 356
Millville ................. Northern Light ............. 190
Mokelumne Hill .......... Mokelumne Hill ............ 298
Monrovia ..............•. Monrovia ................... 308
Montebello .............. Montebello ................. 4;'51
Monterey ...............• Monterey ................... 217
Mountain View ......••••• Mountain View ............. 194
Modesto ................• Stanislaus .................. 206
Murphy's ...............• Ophir ...................... 38
National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa ....................Yount ...................... 12
Newman •.............•.•Hill's Ferry ................ 236
Needles ............•...•• Needles .................... 326
Nevada City ............. Nevada .................... 13
Norwalk ...............•. Norwalk ................... 315
Oakland ................• Live Oak .................. 61
''
................. Oakland .................. . 188
''
................. Brooklyn .................... 225
''
................ . Sequoia .................... 349

Post Office.

Lodge.

567
No.

Oakland ................. Alcatraz •................... 244
................• Fruitvale ................... :1:rn
"
.............•..• Bay View .................. 401
"
................• Yerba Buena ................ 403
''
.................. Standard ................... 440
Oakdale •..•............• Oakdale .................... 275
Ocean park ................ Ocean Park ................ 369
Oceanside ................Oceanside •................. 381
Ontario •........•....•..• Ontario .....•.............. 301
Orange .................• Orange Grove •.............. 293
Orland ...............•.• Orland ..................... 26f
Orosi ...................• Orosi ....................... 383
Oroville ...............•• Oroville •.•..•.............. 103
Oxnard ..•..............• Oxnard .................... 341
Pacific Grove ............ Pacific Grove ............... 331
Palo Alto ................ Palo Alto .................. 346
Pasadena ...............• Pasadena .................. 272
Pasadena ...............• Corona ..................... 324
Pasadena ................ San Pasqual ................ 4:i2
Paskenta ................. Newville ................... 201'
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ................ 286
Penryn .................• Penrhyn .................... 258
Perris .................... Perris ..................... .411
Petaluma ...............• Petaluma .................. 180
Pinole ................... Pinole ..................... 353
Pittsburg ................ Pittsburg ................... 429
Placerville ..............• Palmyra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Pleasanton ..............• Alisa! ...................... 321
Plymouth ................ Drytown ................... 17-1
Point Arena ...........•• Claiborne .................. 185
Pomona ................••Pomona .................... 246
Porterville .............•• Porterville ................. 303
Puente .................. La Puente .................. 446
Quincy ............•••.•• Plumas .................... 60
Redondo ..........•..•.•• Redondo .................... 328
Redding ..............••• Reading .................... 254
Redlands ..•...........•• Redlands ................... 30('
Reedley ...............•• Reedley .................... 304
Redwood City ..........•• Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluff ...............• Vesper ..................... 84
Richmond ................ Alpha ...................... 431
Richmond ..............• McKinley .................. 347
Rio Vista .....•.......••• Rio Vista .................. 208
RiYerbank ...............Riverbank .................. 459

I
I

1

LOCATlON

568
Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OF LODGES

Lodge.

No.

Riversirle ................ Evergreen .................. 259
Rocklin ................. Granite ..................... 222
HoseyilJe ................ RoscTillt' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... -l:l~

Sacramento .............. Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
II
...........•.• Washington ................ 20
II
............•• Sacramento ................. 40
II
............•. Union ...................... 58
.............• Concord .................... 117
"
Saint Helena ............ Saint Helena ............... 93
San Andreas ...........•. Calaveras .................. 78
San Bernarrlino .......•.. Phoenix .................... 178
.......•.. San Bernardino ............. 348
"
San Diego ............... San Diego .................. 35
.............•. Silver Gate ................. 296
"I I
............... Blackmer .................. H2
~a11 Di Illas .............. 8an Dimas .................. 428
Ran Francisco ...........• California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
11
• . • • • • • • • • • • Parfaite Union
............. 17
"
............ Occidental ................. 22
"
............ Golden Gate ................ 30
...........• Mount Moriah .............. 44
"
II
............ Fidelity .................... 120
II
............ Hermann ................... 127
......••...• Pacific ..................... 136
"
............ Crockett ................... 139
"I I
........... ,Oriental .................... 144
.........•.. Excelsior ................... 166
"
II
.........••. Mission .................... 169
............ Sou th San Francisco ........ 212
"
...........• Doric ...................... 216
"
............ Speranza I taliana ........... 219
",,
...........• King Solomon's ............. 260
.........•. ,Starr King ................. 344
............ Presidio .................... 354
..........•• San Francisco .............. 360
............ Amity ..................... 370
............ Jewel ...................... 374
...........• Richmond .................. 375
............ Parnassus ................... 388
"
............ Balder ..................... 393
............ B'airmount ................. 435
- - ........ Park ....................... 449
......... Bethlehem .................. 453
............ nolden West
........... 455

Post Office.

Lodge.

569
No.

San Jacinto .............. San Jacinto ................ 338
San Jose ................. San Jose ................... 10
''
................ . ~'riendship ................. 210
''
................. Fraternity .................. 3{)9
San Juan ................ Texas ...................... 46
San Leandro ............. Eden ............ , .......... 113
San Luis Obispo .......... King David's ............... 209
San Mateo ............... San Mateo ................. 226
San M_iguel ...............San Miguel ................. 285
San Pedro •..............•San Pedro .................. 332
San Rafael ..............• Marin ...................... 191
Santa Ana ............... Santa Ana .................. 241
Santa Barbara ........... Santa Barbara .............. 192
''
.......... . Magnolia ................... 242
Santa Cruz ..............• Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Santa Clara .... , ......... Liberty .................... 299
Santa Maria ............. Hesperian .................. 264
Santa Monica ............ Santa Monica ............... 307
Santa Paula .............. Santa Paula ................ 291
Santa Rosa •............• Santa Rosa .......... : ...... 57
Salinas .................. Salinas ................ , . , .. 204
Sanger ...................Sanger ...................... 316
Sawtelle ................• Veteran .................... 373
Sehofield Barracks ....... Schofield ................... 443
Sebastopol .•............• La Fayette ................. 126
Selma ..................• Selma ...................... 277
Shasta ................... Western Star .. .. . . .. .. . . . .. 2
Sierra City ..............• Harmony ................... 164
Sierra Madre ............. Sierra Madre ............... 408
Sierra ville •..•..........• Sierra Valley . . . . . . . ....... 184
Sisson .................... Sisson ................ , ..... 310
Smartsville .............. .Bose's Bar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Sou th Pasadena ....... ; ... Sou th Pasadena ............. 367
'South San Francisco ....... Francis Drake .............. 376
Sonoma ......•........... Temple ...................... ·14
Sonora ..................• Tuolumne ...... -. . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Stockton ................• San Joaquin ............... 19
11
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Morning Star ............... 68
Stony Ford •............. Snow Mountain ............. 271
Susanville ..............• Lassen ..................... 149
Sutter Creek ............• Henry Clay ................. 95
Suisun ...................Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

i,..,,

I
------~

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

570
l'ost Ollice.

1'o.

LodgoJ.

Trd't ..................... M.idway ................... .426
Tehama •.......•......••• Molino ..................•.. 150
Tehachapi •......•..••.•. Tehachapi ••.....•...•....•. 313
Torrarn·e ................. Torrant'c .................. .44 7
Tran· ................... :Vlt. Oso .................. U. D.
Truckee ............••••. Truckee •................... 200
Tulare .......•....•••.••. Olive Branch ....•.......... 269
Tuolumne ........•......• East Belt .................. 391
Turlock ..................Turlock ............•....... 395
Ukiah ................... Aliell ...................... 146
Upland .................. Upland .................... .±rn
Vallejo .. ; ....••.•.•.••.• Naval •.•......•.......•.... 87
''
................. . Sola.no .
229
Vacaville ................ Vacaville ................... 134
Van Nnys ............... Van Xnys .................. 450
Vetltura ••.........•••••• San Buenaventura ..•.•.••... 214
Visalia .•.•...•...••...•. Visalia ...•••............... 128
Volcano ....•...•.•••.•.• Volcano •.....•.••.......•.• 56
iValnut Creek ...••....•.• Alamo ...................... 122
Watsonville ...•.•........ Pajaro .....••.....•......•• 110
Watts .................... York ....................... 42:1
\Veaverville ............. Trinity ..................... 27
Wheatland .••..........•• Nicolaus .................. 129
Whittier .....••........•. Whittier ..........•......... 323
Winters ..•..••.......... Buckeye .........•.......... 195
Willits .................. Willits ..................... 365
Willows • , ................Laurel •....••.............. 245
Windsor ...••.....•••••••Russian River •......•....... 181
Williams .................Tuscan .•.••......•.....•... 261
Wilmington .....••...••••Wilmington .•••.••....•..•.. 198
Woodbridge ............. Woodbridge ................ 131
Woodland .••......•....• Woodland ••....•••.•..••.•• 156
Yolo .......•....••....•••Yolo .•......••.....••••.•.. 81
Yreka ................... St. John's .................. 87
''
.................. . Howard .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City .. , .....•.....• Enterprise .................• 70

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, HH5

e ................... •

Bv EDWARD H. HART, P. G. M.
To THE GRAKD LoDGE F. & A. M. oF CALJFORNIA,
AND BRJ.\THREN OF 1'HIS )UR1SDJC1'10N :
INTRODUCTION.

We submit herewith our seventh annual report on Fraternal
Correspondence, which includes a review of sixty-five Jurisdictions,
being those whose proceedings are printed in the English language.
which have reached our table within the past year.
The proceedings reviewed are as follows:
LODGE-

YEAR.

Alabama ...................................... 1914
-Alberta .......................................... 1915
Arkansas ..................................... .1914
Arizona ............... ;........................ 1915
British Columbia ....................... .1915
Canada .......................................... 1915
Colorado ...................................... 1914
Connecticut ................................. 1915
Delaware ...................................... 1914
District of Columbia ................. .1914
England ........................................ 1914
Florida .......................................... 1915
Georgia ........................................ 1914
Idaho ............................................ 1914
Illinois ........................................ 1914

LODGJ.\-

YEAR.

Indiana ........................................ 1915
Iowa .............................................. 1915
Ireland .......................................... 1914
Kansas .......................................... 1915
Kentucky ...................................... 1914
Louisiana .................................... 1915
2\Jaine ............................................ 1914
Manitoba ...................................... 1915
Maryland .................................... 1914
l'lfassachusetts ............................ 1914
1\Iichigan .................................... 1915
1\Iinnesota ................................... 1915
Mississippi ................................. 1915
:Missouri ...................................... 1914
1\1ontana ...................................... 1914

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
LODGE-

LODGI(-

Yl(AR.

Nebraska .................................... .1914
Nevada ........................................ 1914
New Brunswick ........................ 1914
New Hampshire ..................... .1915
New Jersey .............................. 1915
New .'\kxico ...............
... .1914
New South Wales
...... .1914
New York
::\' ew Zealand ...................
... .1914
North Carolina .
. .. .1915
Xorth Dakota ............................ 1914
:\'ova Scotia
.................... 1914
Ohio ............................................. 1914

YEAR.

1014

Quebec ........................................ 1915
Rhode Island .............................. 1914
South Australia ....................... .1915
South Carolina ......................... .1914
South Dakota .......................... 1915
Scotland .....
................... 1914

Oregon
Pennsyh·ania
............... .1914
Philippine Islands .................... .1915
Prince Edward Island
1914

Texas
Utah
Vermont ................... ················ .1915
Victoria
Virginia
Washington ··-············ .............. .1914
W co: tern Australia ................ .1914
West Virginia
........ .1914
\Viscon:;in
...... 1914
'vVyoming

\\' e arc indebted to the Correspondence Committee of the Grand
Lmhrc of ?\cw York for the following table showing the number of
:\fa;~ns in the various Grand Jurisdictions and the grand totals. as
per last report, compared with the previous report.
.
'rhe figures for England. Scotland and Ireland are not given for
the reason that no authentic compilation of the membership of these
Cram! Lodges has, so far as we know, ever been made-.
G£NERc\L 1'ABLE.

The following table shows the

of members as per last

"\lberta
British
Ontario,
Manitoba

--·----------.................. ·--··---··- ..

~~~a ns·~~~I::'ic~---::::::::::::::::::: .................... .

Prince Edward Island ..................................... .

~~,~~~h~~~;; . ·:::::: . ::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::

New Zealand ................................................ .
Australia .............................................. .
Tasmania ......................... ________ .......................... .
New South >Vales ........................................... .
\Vestern Australia .......................................... .
V"'ictoria

............................................................. i

Mexico .........

...........................

York,
Philippine Islands ......................................... .

27,548
20.962
2;324
53,179
16,955
34,815
3,436
9,924
12,°'5 l
.40.458
4,413
130,778
66,192
49.550
42,412
42,139
15,883
3(},294
16,46+
65,697

1.151
438
206

? 9'1-)

71,752
27,447
19,JUJ
58,237
6,977
W,144
1,886
10,620
36.649
3,208
186, 179
23,314
8,666
90.,666
23,353
12,315
110,630
8,461
14,281
10.221
26;342
58,724
2,081
13,610
23,392
18,40-7
15,768
28,082
3,036

74,964
28,735
19,691}
61,522
7,50(;
21,122
1,939
rn,728
38,674
3,361
192,463
22l879
9,130
96,075
25,382
13,260
115,505
8,833
15, 1 SS
10,730·
27,091
63,394
2,201
13,874
24,146
19,542
16, 710
3, !90

153
6,284
565
464
'5,409
2,029
945
4,875
372
874
509
849
4,670
120
264
754
1,135
942
1,160
154

5,382
6,344
53,699
6,455
3,3W
6,528
769
7,362
4,51}0

6,037
7,176
56,787
6,929
J,539
6i°58

832
3,088
474
219
230

7,819
5,952

457
l,452

12,695
4,904
1,443
17 ,524
3,949
12,310

13,209
\266

514
362

1~172

England ......................... .
Ireland ...................... .
Scotland
Tot"l

-·si6
534
78
335
614
2,0-33
401
8,545
3,157
1,965
1,744
1,680
731
422
698
2,40·7

3

*No Report.

29~242

18,728
4,042
13,359
1,194
500

3,212
l,288
587
3,285
523
978
53
108

2,0-25

655

.
.

1,204
93
1,049
22
500

~••>••••••••••••UH

---·--······---··-··

1,725,414

l,Sl 5,806
769
1,443
1,818,().[8
1,725,424

From the Proceedings of Indiana, we take the following comprehensive table of statistics pertaining to Masonic Homes already established ; the table, which involved in its preparation a vast amount of
care and research, was compiled by Brother C. A. Bridwell, President
of the Board of Trustees of the .Masonic Orphans' Home of Arkansas:

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

6

. \side from the comments made by us under the captions of the
various J nrisdictions rcportC'd on herein, we have only a frw observations to make concerning one or two matters which ha vc come to th'·
attention of practically all of the Jurisdictions within the past year.
REQUEST FOR RECOGNITION OF GRANDE LOGE
NATIONALE, ETC., OF FRANCE.

Thi,.; request was before our Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication a year ago. Action thereon was deferred until fuller information could be obtained concerning this alleged Grand Lodge.
This request for recognition was addressed about a year ago to
prohably e\·cry Grand Lodge of Masons in the world, because in our
reading we have encountered it everywhere. Recognition has been
accorded by a few Grand Bodies and we are very certain that the
few instances where recognition has been extended was because
of hasty action, without sufficient inquiry as to the existence, or
non-existence, of underlying requirements for recognition, and based.
we presume, in every case upon the assertion that recognition had
been extended by the Grand Lodges of England and Scotland.
Because Craft Masonry traces its origin, ;is a rule, to the Grand
Lodge of England is no reason why greater weight should attach to
the action of England in extending recognition than would attach to
recognition extended by some other Grand Lodge. In fact, England
and Scotland are at the present time, in many ways, unsafe guides
to follow in the matter of recognition. Recognition by these Grand
Bodies is frequently based upon selfish and narrow considerations, ;is
is shown in the refusal of these Grand Bodies to recognize certain
Grnnd Lodges that have been formed in Australia, New Zealand, and
other places, because this action will affect these Grand Lodges
adversely, from a purely selfish standpoint; and. while recognition
has in the cases of most of the Australian and the New Zealand Grand
Lodges been grudgingly extended, this has not heen done until practically all of the rest of the Masonic world had freely received into the
family of Grand Lodges these sovereign bodies; yet, even now England
and Scotland refuse to grant recognition to the Grand Lodge of
Queensland, a Grand Lodge that has received recognition from nearly
every other Grand Lodge on earth.
For these reasons, therefore, the recognition, or non-recognition,
by England or Scotland, of another Grand Lodge is not by any means
conclusive as to the status of that Grand Lodge, and vastly greater
weight is to be attached to the action of such Grand I,odges in our
own country as :'\1assachusetts, or Wisconsin, or Pennsylvania, that
arc guided hy the counsels of careful and conservative Masonic
scholars.

I
i

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
\Ve attach especial importance to the opinions of Massachusetts
11pon these questions, and the same request that came to California
for recognition hy this (!le\\·) Crarnl Lodge of France, came to
Massachusetts and was referred to the di sting uishcd Chairman of
the Committee on Foreign Relations, the l\fost Worshipful Brother
Charles T. Gallagher, who maclc a most interesting report, recorded
in the Proceedings of the September, 1914, Quarterly Communication
of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts.
It so transpired that Brother Gallagher was in Europe in the
early part of 1914, and on his way home from Constantinople he
stopped at Paris for one full day before sailing and made personal
inquiries as to the standing of the new Body. H c ascertained from
personal i1westigation that this alleged Grand Lodge did not consist
of more than two existing lodges, with possibly a third; that there
probably were not more than sixty members all told; that it was
headed b1· one Ribaucourt, who had been, until a year before, active in
the Gra;d Orient of France, with which the English-speaking Grand
Lodges severed connection in 1877. The impression held hy the real
Ma sons with whom Brother Gallagher came in contact was that the
(new) Grand Lodge was a humorous transaction, and the alleged
recognition by England and Scotland inexplicable.
After Past Grand Master Gallagher returned 110111e, he addressed
a letter, l\farch 18, 1914, to l\I. Louis Jollois, alleged Grand Secretary
of the new Grand Lodge, asking for information relative to a number
of questions which he put forth, that would enable the Grand Lodge
of Massachusetts to intelligently take action on the request for
recognition.
No answer was ever recci1·ed to this letter of inquiry, although
it was sent in March, nearly five months before any thought of war,
which otherwise might have been alleged as an excuse for delay.
Brother Gallagher states, howcyer, that he obtained certain literature concerning the new body, and from a careful perusal of the
literature checking up this information with what is common knowledge
conccrni1;g the situation of Masonry in France, he had no difficulty
in arriving at the conclusion that the so-called (new) Grand Lodge
of France has no claim wl1atevcr to recognition as a soycrcign Grand
Lodge of Craft Masonry.
Brother Gallagher is strongly inclined to believe that the existing
Grand Lodge of France, which has hcen in existence a great many
years, is entitled to recognition as a S(wereign Grand Lodge._ It h~s
nnder its jurisdiction 151 Lodges in France, of which 52 are 111 Pans.
J t has a .. membership of between four thousand and five thousand. It
confesses belief in Goel by permitting expression to this effect fro'.11
the candidate for :\fasonry, also in tl1e appeal to the G. A. 0. T. U. 111
the Ritnal and Obligations.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

7

W c may not be surprised if :'.\ f assaclrnsetts grants rccogmt10n in
due course to the old Grand Lodge of France (not the Grand Orient).
!mt it certainly will not grant recognition to this new aspirant.
Brotlwr Past Grand :'.\Taster J. L. :\lid1ie, Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of South Carolina, has this to say concerning this
alleged Grand Lodge:
"A New Grand Lodge ( ?) has arisen in France. called the '.\'ational, Independent and Regular Grand Lodge for France and the
French Colonies.' (Grande Loge' ?\ ationalc Jndepenclantc Rcguliere
Pour La France & Les Colonies Francaiscs.) The length of its title
recalls Pennsdyania and Rhode Island.
"The history of this new French Grand Lod!.!;c is really farcical.
From a Jetter of its Grand ]\faster ( ?) . D. E'lle Rihancourt, or Ribaucourt (spelt hoth ways). we gather the following information:
"Loclg-cs of the old 'Rite of the Rectified Regime,' when 'put to
skep in 1841,' 'bequeathed their powers to the Grand Rectified Dircctorv of Gene1·a. in order that the Lodges of France should he awakened
wh~n the time was opportune.' Tn 1910 this Grand Rectified Directory
'created' the RespectaHe Rectified Lodge 'Le Centre des Amis,'
in the cit1· of Paris. Tn 1913 the Gram! Orient of Francc insisted
that its Ri.tual should he used, 'in which the opening and closing invocations had the symbol of the G. A. of the U. snporessed.' To clcfrnd
its 'menaced Masonic faith,' this Rcsnectahlc Rectified Lodge at Paris
'took the initiatil·e.' and constittited itself into the Jong named Grand
Lodge ahnn~ written. Its action was 'promptly followed' by the 'Respectable Lodge L'Anglais' of Bordeaux. and 'some new lodges have
combinecl' with these two 'Respectable' Lodges. From the name of
this 'Respectalilc' Lodge in Bordeaux ('L'Anghis') we hazard the
vuess that Englishmen residing in that citv have had something to
do with this new 'Respectable' and 'Rectified' Grand (?) Lodge."
Louisiana, the most liberal of all our American Grand Jurisdictions
in extending recognition, cannot ahide this new applicant for admission
into the circle of Grand Lodges, and the distinguished Chairman of
the Committee on Foreign Corresponclcncc, Dr. Herman C. Duncan,
has this to say concerning this so-called Grand Lodge:
"In response to the request for recognition from the Grand Lochl'e
of France, our chairman wrote to its authorities for information relative to those prcreouisitcs which this Grand Lodge in its wisdom has
sccn fit to set fortl1 as ncccssan· re rccognition by us. In reply we
reccfrcd a 1·cn· unsatisfacton· lettcr-nnsatisfacton· in that it dealt
only with one ·prerequisite u11on which we insist, 11amcly. the maintenance of the ancient landmarks. It does not appear that three lorlges
united in the formation of this Grand Lorl~·e; nor that all the Lodges
of the country were notified of the intention to organize. It is very
far from cmhrac-ing- a majority of the Lodges of France.
"Your Committee. therefore, arc unable to recommend recognition at this time."
Past Grand Master George Vv. Baird of Washington, D. C.,
Chairrna1, of tl1c Foreign Correspondence Committee of the District
of Columhia. and one bf the most karnccl of our l\f a sonic reviewers.

-

-----

--

--·--·

---------

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

rrave co11sideratio11 to the request of this allege<l Grand Lodge for

;~cognition, which had been made to the Grand Lo<lge of the District

of C~lnmbia, and Brother Baird's report is as follows:
..
"Y onr committee has considered the petition for. recogmhon of
the Grand Lodge . .;\atim~al, Independent and .Regular to; France
the French colo111es, w h1ch was referred to 1t hy. the (,rand Mastel.
"This
is from the body of ?vfasorn' wh1<:h recently seceded
from the
Orient of France, and the same winch the Pro Grand
:\.laster of the Gi·aml Lmlge of England, in U1e absence. of the G:~ncl
:\.Taster, directed his Grancl Lodge to recogmze, aucl winch rccog111t1011
was subsc.:qncntly confirmed by the Gran~ Lod.gc of England.
.
"The petition informs us that ~he ritual is that of the Scottish
Rite, but its Lodges may ns~ other ntnals; ~hat the Lodge~ are ?~)ened
and closed 'to the. glory of the Gre:.it J\rch1tect, of the V:nverse '.·tha;
'the Sacrctl Law 1s open 011 the pedestal of the Mastei; , that ne1the.
politics nor religion will he permitted to be d1scusse'.l m the Lod.~es;
and that the three symhohc degrees of ~1asonry will he exclusive!}
recognized.
. .
·
I
·
II
, 't
"The petition claims that the orga111z~t1on 1s regu a: rn a rcspec s,
which 111a1· he true. hut which we would l!ke time to ve1;fy. .
.
.
"The· descent of this Grand Dody 1s from the. (,:and Orient ?t
France, from which body the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia
severed fraternal relations in 1870.

ar;'.I

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The resolutions of thi;; Grand Lodge in 1870 were signed hy Past
French and Charles F, Stansbury and
Cram! ~fosters Benjamin
Grand Lecturer J olm

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It has hccome a fixed principle in American Maso:iry to r.ecognize
hut one Grand
in any one place, and th?ugh. tlus pn~ciplc may
he· uf modern
is faithfully adhered to m this Republic.
"The Committee declined, therefore, to recommend recognition."
Other comments of a similar character are found scattered through
the reports, and, we believe, without going exhaustively into the
matter ourselves, with
touching the fundamentals as to the
origin, etc .. of this so-called Grand ~od~, the .a~tion of our Grand
Lodge :1t the last Annnal Comrntmicatrnn, 1n declmmg, for t'.1~ present,
al kast. to accord to this alleged Grand Body rccogmtion as a
Son:reign Grand Lodge of Craft Masonry, was fully justified.

.Most of the Grand Lodges. in response to this and other appeals,
made contributions of greater or less amounts.

It, of course, is inevitable that we, as l\fasons, should feel the
profoundest sympathy and sorrow for the a wfol distress occasioned
by the unprecedented conflict in Europe, and this sorrow and griei
extends not only to Masons who are suffering from the conflict, but to
all of the innocent victims of this causeless war, wherever located and
whether they be Masons or not. It is doubtful, in our judgment, however, whether the victims of the war in Europe of Masonic affiliation
arc at this time proper subjects for consideration in the disbursement
of Masonic charity. Our efforts in this direction would be as a grain
of sand on the seashore, and the distress caused by this awful war
must be alleviated and taken care of, not hy such organizations as
the l\fasonic Fraternit¥, but by the Governments of Europe themselves.
After the conflict is over it may then be proper to consider to
what extent and how l\fasonic charity may be extended.
MASONIC HOM ES.

See comments under "Quebec."
TO WHAT EXTENT, IF ANY, MAY LODGES OF ONE JURIS·
DICTION RECEIVE AS VISITORS MASONS HAILING FROM
ANOTHER JURISDICTION TO WHICH FRATERNAL RECOGNI·
TION HAS NOT BEEN EXTENDED?

See comments under "South Carolina" and "Wyoming."
TOUCHING THE PRACTICE OF CERTAIN GRAND LODGES IN
ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS (WHEN AT EASE) OF RECEIVING
VISITORS, REPRESENTING THE GRAND CHAPTER, ORDER OF
EASTERN STAR; OR, THE GRAND CHAPTER, ROYAL ARCH
MASONS; OR, THE GRAND COMMANDERY, KNIGHTS TEMPLAR, AND APPOINTING DELEGATES TO RETURN THEIR
VISITS.

MASONIC RELIEF TO EUROPEAN WAR SUFFERERS.

\Ve ])rcs111ne all of the American Grand Lodges have received
·
· ·
appeals most of them emanat111g
from an orgamzat10n
ma· d e np. of
rcpn:sc;itatives of the various l\fasonic Grand Bodies in the Umted
States, with headquarters in Cincinnati . headed by Past Grand Mast~r
\V. B. .\kllish of that Juriscliction, asking for funds to be used Ill
aid of Masonic war sufferers in Europe, and, inasmnch as the ap?eal
was sent out at about the time of the great distress in ~clgmm,
. ·
· t'mg m
· that
especial r<'fcrcncc was made to t l1c coneI 1t10ns
ex1s
, hng·dom.
'

9

See comments under "Oregon" and ''South Dakota."
DISTINCTION BETWEEN INVASION AND NON-INVASION OF
JURISDICTIONAL RIGHTS, THROUGH THE PLANTING BY A
GRAND LODGE OF SUBORDINATE LODGES IN FOREIGN
TERRITORY.

See comments under "British Columbia."

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

THE TENDENCY OF GRAND LODGES TO RELAX THE DEMAND
FOR PHYSICAL PERFECTION IN APPLICANTS FOR ADMISSION.
ALABAMA.
See "Indiana·" (report of Grand Master), "Nova Scotia" (a
peculiar case of visible physical defect;), "Iowa" (Grand Master's
report), and "Oregon."

f<'ollowing arc the renews of the yarions Gram! Jurisdictions.
RC'spectfnlly submitted,
EDWARD H. H.\RT,

1914.
94th ,\nnual, Montgomery, December 2 and 3.
Lodges, 553; members, 27.548; net gain, 1,151.
In the opening of the Grand Master's address, he vmces an
urgent appeal to the Craft gC'nerally to study the principles of
l\[asonry and not to bC' safr;fied simply with the knowledge of the
Ritual of Freemasonry.

Chairman of the Committee.
He states that he does not wish in any :;cnse to discourage a
thorough knowledge of the beautiful Ritual of the Craft, but urges
that thf'. members go beyond the surface to the great principles which
constitute the foundation of our ancient and honorable Fraternity, to
the end that when a Mason is "brought from darkness to light" he
will realize that the true spirit of Masonry lies beyond the mere
forms and ceremoniC's of initiation, and that the study of these
principles and the exercise thereof will uplift the nations of the earth.
He points out that our Institution can nen~r exercise its maximum
influence for morality and exalted manhood until we reach that high
:;t;mclard of conception and morality which lie at the foundation of
our Craft. He urges the practical application of the principles of
:\Jasonry in every-day affairs of life and points out that the application
of the Golden Rnle, which is in truth a Masonic teaching, will result
in higher conception of obligations and dutiC's, and he urges upon
all the necc:;sity oi cfocharging lhC'ir full duty in exerting e\•ery effort
not only to apply the Golden Rule but to aid others in the struggle
of life.
The Cram! :\faster reported ~the death of Past Grand l\Iaster Rufus
:\J. Cobb and of \Vm. Y. Titcomb, for many years Chairman of the

Committee on Foreign Correspondence'. Brother Cobb, he state's. was
born at Ashville. Alabama, in 1829. He served in the Confederate
Army as Captain and bore an honorable military record, and after
the war he C'ntercd the practice of law, to which profession he was
an unquestioned ornament. His Masonic record rC'AectC'd crC'clit npon
hnth himself and his Fraternity.
Brother Titcomb, fur many years Chairman of the Corn1nitll'c on
Foreign Corrcspomlcnce, was burn in 1827 in J\IassaclrnsC'tts. Ile
retno\·ccl to the Southern portion of onr country in his early life am!
was a resident for many years of the State of Alabama.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCI<J.

12

13

_\ ncl hring back the features which joy usccl to wear.
Long, long. be my heart with such memories filled~
I.ikc the vase in which rose's have once been distilledYou may break. you may shatter the vase. if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang 'round it still.'"

,\s Chairman of the Committee on Foreigu Correspondence, his
reports have hecn read with interest and pleasure hy the Craft throughout the J\fasonic world, and have been perused with profit and
advantage by all who have had access to his rich stores of wisdom

The Report on Correspondence was presented by Brother Nathaniel
L. Newhinney. He docs not follow the usual procedure of reviewing
each Jurisdiction separately, but his rrport is more in the nature of
a digest, arranged in topical order alphabetically and treating of
Yarious subjects like "Land-marks," "l\1asonry," "Oratory," "l\.fasonic
Homes," and other subjects. in this manner ;1ssembling under each
heading extracts from the Proceedings of different Jurisdictions.

and experience.
The Grand ]\faster reported that dispensations to form eight new
Lodges were granted and that cornerstone ceremonies were held upon
eight different occasions.
Lnder "decisions," . the Crand 1fastcr stated that a great many
questions had been submitted to him for derision, but in nearly every
case all that was needed was a reference of the inquirer to some
edict oi the Grand Lodge or section of the Constitution.

This method has been tried before, but, we believe, not with
marked success, and we do not anticipate that Brother Newhinney
will discover many follmvers in his method of treating the general
subject of correspondence.

The six decisions which he reports involve, we believe, the application of no new ,\iasonic principles.

California, in Brother N ewhi1mcy's report, is referred to in several
places. Under the topical heading of "Oratory," he quotes Brother
Hervey's Grand Lodge oration practically in foll. and under the
heading "Correspondence Report," California again receives copious
attention.

The Grand ,\faster announced with much pleasure the completion

,,f the !mspital at the :\1asonic Home, erected by the Grand Chapter,
Onkr of r..:asteru Star, and \V cdncsday, December 2, was set apart
for tlie ceremony of dedication, which was accordingly performed in
an impressive manner.

Brother Newhinney's report discloses a great deal of thoughtful
attention to the subject of correspondence, and the report itself is
interesting and instructive.

Referring to the ,\fasonic Home, the Grand Master states that
iL is fulfilling work laid out for it in a manner to win the pride and

apprornl of the Fraternity.
Reference is mJde bv thr Grand ,\faster to his invitation to attend
the Conference of (irand J\Jaqers, held in the city of St. Louis, May
14-16. 1914. which circumstances prevented his attending. He wa~,
however able to attend the meeting of the George \Vashington :!\.fasome
.'\ ational i\iemorial Association, which visit he found highly entertaining

M:. \V:. HENRY C. MILLER of Birmingham was re-elected Grand
Master.

M:. \V.'. GEORGE A. BtAUCHA~!l' was re-elected Grand Secretary.
ALBERTA.

and
[ n conclusion. the Grand ,\faster states that. while the condition
of the Craft in ,\!abarna is good, it is not quite ideal. Our Brethren,

he avers, arc showing greater interest in the study of Mason~y ~h:n
c1·cr before in consequence of living in harmony with the prmcip es
of l\Ja;;onrY. yet with everything else he· does not find that the
principle cJ perfection is discoverable on this side of eternity.

"

Tbc office of Grand :\faster, he observes, is not a "bed of roses,
yet in the years to come he is sure that he will he able to say with
the po<>t:
.. Let Fate tlo her w<.nst, there arc relics Qf joy,
Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy;
\Vhich come in the night-time of sorrow and care

1915.
10th Annual, Red Deer. May 26.
Lodges. 71; members, 6,672; gain, 633.
The Grand Commtmication was presided over by the Most \Vorshipful Grand :\faster ]lldge J. A. Jackson. The Grand Master's
address is a straight-forward, business-like statement of Masonic activities of the Jurisdiction within the preceding year.
Seven new Lodges that received charters at the preceding Annual
Commnnications were. accorcling to the Grand ~faster's statement,
duly constituted.

REPORT OJ'\ CORRESPONDENCE.

15

HFlPORT OK CORRESPONDENCE.

to form fonr new lodgt·s.
Appa!'l·ntly 110 decisions 11p<lll "\fasnnic law were rendered by the
Crand :\Jaster. althm1gh stTeral rnlings were made constructive of

the Jaw of the Jurisdiction.
Rcicrcncc is made to the devastating war now in progress upon
the continent oi Enrope and to the natural sympathy felt by the
:\fasons of Alberta for the cause in which the British Empire is
c•nfo.tcd, and apprnval is voiced hy the Crnnd ~faster of such assistance
a' the :\Jasons of the Jurisdiction can render in aid of the cause of the
nwthcr country.

In nrrlcr 'o show that thi;.; Jurisdiction is folly alive to its obligations in the way of J\Jasonic relief. we qnote from the report of the
Co111111ittc,. nn the Condition of 2\Iasonry as follows:

'·The
throughnnt tile Jurisrliction in 1914 expended over
$6.700 in
\\'hilc the greater nart of this sum has hcen given
h· the fe\\'
and wealthier Lodges, yet the returns show many of
tl1c ;;111alkr
han: gin·n n·ry generous assistance, co111pared
with their arparcnt numbers and resmirccs. \Ve feel s1ire that cverv
in the Jnrisdiction is res[Jon<ling nohly, as occasion arises, to
of true }fas•)nic ch<trity."
Fraternal recognition was app~.rcntly extended to the new Grand
Lndgc c1f Fr:rncc :irnl denied, for the riresent, at least, to the York
(~rand Lodge of :\lcxko. If the action had he.en the other way about
11«: wuuld not have been s11rprisccL
The Rcpnrt un Corrc·sp(mdcncc is bv Brother S. Y. Taylor, Deputy
ComlcnsC'(l hut instructive and interesting reviews of
the 1·arinus Jnrisrlictinns arc ma<k. Cm1rtcot:s and friendly consideration is gi1·c11 to Californfr1. 1914.

(~rand ilfasln.

:\J.'. \\'.'. S. Y. T.\Y!JIR, Calgary, Grand }foster.
,.\[:. \\'.'. Cm1<t~E :\L\cno:-.J.\LTJ. Calgary. Grand Secretary.

ARKANSAS.

1914.

?Jn! Annual. Little Rock, November 17.
Cn<lgcs. 553; 111cmhcrship. 20.962; gain, ~44.
:\iter the Crand Lutlgc '':is duly opened, the Ho11ur Rull, that is
the list of deceased Past Grand :\fosters, was called and in honor of
their memory the f<\rncral Grand Honors were given.

In his opening addrcs,; the Cram! :\Ia;.;ter represents the Great
Brothcrhooq, as the champion of human rights which played an
important part in laying tl1e foundations for freedom, toleration and
equity in our own fair land. He stated that in his judgment Masonry
and religion arc in a sense intcrw(wen ;md reciprncal. each having its
individual part to perform, which duties the other may not assume . but
taken together they comprehend our entire <lnty to God and humanity.
Jlis ·other expressions :dong these lines are upon a high plane,
and in his judgment the prevalence of J\.[asonic principles would bring

ahout the devoutly-prayed-for era of "peace on earth. good will to
frllowmcn."
Arkansas was called upon to mourn the passing onward of one
of its Past Grand officers, Brother George De Vaughn, who was Grand
Custodian of the work in 1894.
Frnm the address of the Crand l.faster, we deduce the conclusion
that the year, from a ev!as<mic standpoint, was one !llled with activity;
eight dispensations were grante<I hy him to form new lodges; one
<lispcnsation was refused, and within the ye<tr a large numb,,r of
cornerstones \Vere laid with the usual ceremonies.
Two charters of Subordinate Lodg<'s were arrested, one for
insubordination in initiating a candidate after the Grand :\faster had
ordered the Lodge not to do so, and the other for violating well-known

:\'Tasonic laws.

•

Twelve decisions were rendered by the Grand Master, 110 less
than nine of them construing certain anti-liquor legislation passed by
the Grand Lodge in 1913, the edict in question being a declaration by the
Grand Lodge making it a Masonic offense for a Mason to sign a
petition for a license for a saloon, or to circnlatc a petition therefor.
The Grand Master rnled tlwt this edict of the Grand Lodge
applied to Entered Apprentices and Fellow Craft :Vfasons as well as
to Master Masons.
The Grand Master ruled in one of his decisions that the officers
of the Lodge may not assemble idormally in the lodgeroom on
Sunday for the rehearsal of the work We think California would
disagree with this decision.
The l\fasonic Home in this Jurisdiction is in a prosperous and
happy condition, the Grand Master stating in his report that the
institution is conducted upon a high plane, that the influences with
which the children a re surrounded are good, that they are given the
advantages of home training as well a.< intellectual improveme11t. and

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

that in his opinion there is being create<l at the home a class of
citizenship which will give to the State and to the Nation noble men
and women who will be a credit to the Masonic Fraternity and a
blessing to their country.

the :\Iason, may be preserved is certainly an alluring proposition for
Alexandria, but we are unable to see that Masonry in general is to
receive any compensating advantage.

He bespeaks for the Home the generous support that it deserves
an<l ventures the prediction that, with the financial aid which it is
;:ntitlcd to receive from the Grand Lodge, a monument to Masonry
more lasting than stone or granite will be erected.
The Grand Master rendered an interesting report touching his
attendance upon the conference of Grand Masters at St. Louis.
A communication was received from the \Vashington l\Iasonic
Memorial Association asking that Arkansas participate in the movement by making a financial contribution and by sending delegates to
the annual meeting held on February 22 of each year at Alexandria,
Virginia.
This indtation to JOll1 in the movement was declined, as were
two similar invitations received by this Jurisdiction in previous years.
Personally, we are in sympathy with the action taken by Arkansas,
not because of any lack of appreciation of the grandeur of the character
of \Vashington or of his influence upon Masonry, but because these
annual gatherings of representatives from different Grand Bodies hold
the germs of a danger that the creation of a General Grand Lodge
of the United States may be attempted, and this is the same objection,
also, that we have to the so-called Annual Conference of Grand
Masters.
Of the seven or
conferences of this character that have thus
far been held, we believe it may be said that not one has concluded
its sessions without the introduction by someone of a resolution looking
to the creation of a General Grand Lodge, and, while these resolutions
have always been frowned upon and voted down, nevertheless the
thought is always latent, and there are always certain individuals who
are attempting to eommit these annual conferences to the idea of a
General Grand Lodge, which is antagonistic to the spirit of our
Institution; yet, as stated, the attempt to "modernize" Masonry and to
put it into the class of fraternal organizations of recent origin, is
constantly being made at these annual gatherings.
Alexandria, Virginia, is a city of possibly 15,000 people, having
two ::\Iasonic Lodges with a total membership of less than 600, and
the proposition of the Masons of the United States building a milliondollar temple at Alexandria in order that certain relics of \Vashington,

17

It is, of course, desirable that these relics should be safe-guarded
against loss or destruction, hut we are sure this purpose could be
accomplished very effectually and at an expense trifling in comparison
with the outlay proposed in connection with the memorial building at
Alexandria.
Resolutions were passed at this communication rcqmrmg a
Master :Mason, after receiving the sublime degree, to pass a satisfactory
examination in the work of the Master Masons' degree.
Brother Fay Hempstead, Grand Secretary, who holds the position
of Poet Laureate of Freemasonry, read an original poem entitled
"Armageddon," the theme of which was a protest against the awful
tragedies of the present war.
The annual election resulted in the choice of Charles A. Rosenbaum,
Little Rock, Grand :\faster. and Fay Hempstead. Little Rock, Grand
Secretary.

ARIZONA.

1915.

33rd Annual, Prescott, February 9, 1915.
Lodges, 25; members, 2,564; gain, 239.
The Annual Communication was presided over by Most \Vorshipfol
Charles M. Smith, Grand Master. The Annual Communication was
held at Prescott, the "mile-high" city of Arizona.
The Grand Master, un<ler the caption of "Fraternal Dead," recounts
the names of the Brethren of the Jurisdiction who within the preceding
year had been called to their reward.
He refers to the invitation received by him to attend the Conference
of Grand Masters, held at St. Louis. He was not able to attend
personal!y, but sent, as proxy, Past Grand Master Morris Goldwater.
Brother Goldwater renders a report, in which he says that, while
the actual results of the Conference which he attended were i.-.consequential, yet he thinks that these meetings are beneficial in that they
are the means of promotiqg good will among the various Jurisdictions
and that the discussion of the various topics is interesting and may
lead to a greater uniformity along certain inter-Jurisdictional matters,
through legislation by the individual Grand Lodge. The Grand Master

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

refers to several cornerstone ceremonies that were matters of considerable local interest. 11c granted within the year dispensations to form
two new Lodges; he rendered four decisions on Masonic law, two of
which arc as follows:

BRITISH COLUMBIA.

JS

"Q. Does an unaffiliated J\Iason have to become a resident of the
State of Arizona before he can affiliate with a Lodge in this J urisdiction?
".\. "No; an unaffiliated Mason can reside in this or any ?th~r
Grand Jurisdiction and apply for and be elected to membership, 1f
the Lodge to \vhich he makes application secs fit to elect him."

"Flagstaff Lodge No. 7 elected an applicant to receive the Degrees
oi l\I asonrv. Before the First Degree was conftrred he moved to
Kingman, Arizona.
"Q. Can the Flagstaff Lodge request the Kingman Lodge to conf~r
the First Degree, and thus save the petitioner the expense of a tnp
from Kingman to Flagstaff?
",\. Y cs; hut both Lodges must be certain of the identity of the
pct it ioncr."
I f'c visited, within his term of office, every Lodge in the J uris(licl i"n. These visitations not onlv afforded him a great deal of pleasure,
lmt no doubt stimulated intcre;t in the various Lodges. which resulted
in great good to the Masonry of the Jurisdiction.
A \·en· substantial sum of $674.30 was contributed to the War
Relief Fm;d, certainly a generous contribution for a Jurisdiction no
larger numerically than Arizona.
The outstanding event of the Annual Communication was the
cl'lcbration, participated in by the members in attendance at the Grand
Loclge, of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the introduction of Freemasonry
into the Territory of Arizona by Aztlan Lodge ~o. 1. A program of
music and addresses was carried out, the principal feature of which
was the presentation of a set of gold jewels to :\ztlan Lodge No. l
for the use of its officers.
Funds for the purchase of this set of gold j ewcls was made by
\·oluntary offerings from every Lodge in the Jurisdiction. The event
was, in all respects, a very happy one, and will long be remembered by
the participants therein.
Application for fraternal recognition by the new Grand Lodge of
France was rcceiYed, and, in accordance with the report of the
Committee, action thereon was deferred to the next session of the
Grand Lodge.

1915.

44th Annual, Victoria, J unc 17.
Lodges, 79; 111eml1crs, 7.678; gain, 339.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, Most \V' orshipful
Brother James Stark, Grand ]\faster, presiding.
The Grand Master's address is a straight-forward, business-like
statement of his activities within the year. He enmneratcs an extensive
list of official visitations to Subordi~ate Lodges, which, no doubt.
received great benefit from his personal presence with them.
He records with a great deal of feeling the death within the
year of the Most \Vorshipfol Brother Israel vVood Powell, who was
elected to the exalted position of Grand Master for three successh·c
years-in fact, was chosen for a fourth term, but declined to serve.
ITc passed away February 25, 1915, a faithful laborer, the Grand
Master states, to the end.
An Emergent Communication of the Grand Lodge was held in
Masonic Temple, Victoria, for the purpose of conducting the fmal
obsequies and paying the last respects to the distinguished brother.
The Grand .!\faster states that many decisions, rulings and answers
to questions were given, but none of an important nature, and all
being covered by existing law, the Grand :'.\faster deemed it unnecessary
to report them.
Among other l\Iasonic act1vlt1cs exercised by him within the year
were dispensations to form certain new Lodges; the convening of the
Grand Lodge in numerous Emergent Communications for the purpose
of dedicating Masonic halls. placing cornerstones of public buildings,
etc.
Reference is made lo the war in Europe. and the loyalty of the
Masonic Grand Lodge of British Columbia to the mother country was
affirmed by resolutions unanimously adopted, and a list is given of the
Masons of this Jurisdiction who had volunteered and had gone across
the water to fight England's battles.
Out of the twenty special dispensations granted by the Grand
l\lastcr within the year, dc,·en were to Snhordinate lodges, pc-rmitting
them to attrnd DiYinc· Sen·ice in l\lasonic clothing.

Thn-c is no report on Fraternal Correspondence.
l\I." vV." GEORGE Au:x,\NDER BRlllGE, Bisbee. Crand Master.
l\I. '. \V.'. GEORGE J. RosKRl:GE, Tucson, (~rand Secretary.

This is a form of dispensation rardy granted by Crand .:\Iastcrs
011 this side of the Canadian line, hut frequently granted by Cran<l
.!\Tasters on the other side of the line.

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

~ \ 11 interesting ;Hldress was ma< le by the Grand Chaplain V cry
\\' orship ful llrot lwr Josiah 11 inchcliff, the subject hcing "Masonic
l\ruthcrhood." llis ideas were somewhat pessimistic upon this subject,
the net result of his ohsen·ation being that the sacred relationship of
Brotherhood was, as a rule, very soon forgotten after the candidate
had attained the Sublime Degree.

Brother Smith refers to the splendid work which our various
boards of relief arc carrying: forward, and speaks in complimentary
terms of the ktrge appropriations made by our Grand Lodge in the
way of charity and good will.

20

The Grand l\Iastcr apparently, in some of his public announcements
in connection with the meeting of the Grand Lodge, had linked the
name of the Order of Eastern Star with the name of the Grand Lodge,
which was apparently very distasteful to the members of the Grand
Lodge, as resolutions were adopted by the Grand Lodge repudiating
the coupling of the names in this manner by the Grand Master, and at
the same time ordering that all reference to the Grand Lodge and
Order of the Eastern Star 111ade in the Grand Master's address, linking
the names together. be stricken out and not recorded in the journal of
Proceedings.
This was certainly some "slam" at the Grand l\Iastcr, hut it was
not the only criticism that he received, because, later on, the Jurisprudence Committee, in co111menting upon the statc111ent in the Grand
:VIaster's address that he had made no record of decisions or rulings,
expressed their opinion to the effect that the Grand Master should have
reported these decisions, nevertheless.
The Committee on Grand Master's Address, however, did find
much to commend in his activity in the matter of official visits to the
Lodges of the Jurisdiction, and to certain of his recom111endations
looking to the bettcr111cnt of the Craft.
Resolutions of loyalty to the person and Crown of the Most
Gracious Sovereign of the British Kingdom were adopted, and a
cablegram sent to His Gracious l\fajesty expressing this loyalty, and,
in due course a cablearam was received in reply expressing the deep
'
'."
.
.
. h
appreciation of the Kmg for these pledges of devot10n, all of whtc
was very appropriate and commendable in a Grand Lodge of one of the
dependencies of the British Crown.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, from the
scholarly \V. A. De VVolf Smith, Cbairman. His comments arc always
\·irik and full of interest.

11 c discusses California, 1913, in a breezy manner; he quotes
c "tens iv cl v from the addn.,;s of Cram! :\faster Fihncr and relishes the
report of -the castigation which Judge Sullivan gave to the convicted
peddler of spurious :\]a sonic Degrees, and he gives expression to the
o[linion that tl1is faker got what he deserved.

21

He takes mild exception to our action in extending recog111t10n
to the Grand Lodge of Porto Rico, whose claim to legitimacy is
derived through the Grand Lodge of Cuba, and under "Illinois" he
discusses the claims of Cuba to regularity with the conclusion that
Cuba's claims arc somewhat mixc(l. although admitting that Cuba's
regularity was straight enough at the beginning, but in the shuffle of
"now you sec it, ancl now you don't sec it," she had compromised, even
if she had not wholly lost, her original claims through a surrender to
the Scottish Rite.
In our opinion, however, Cuba bas a fair claim to regularity, and
her present authority over Craft Masomy in her Jurisdiction is not
disputed, ancl therefore we helic,-c that no mistake was made in
extending recognition to Cuba's offspring, Porto Rico.
Brother Smith docs not, we apprehend, seriously disagree with
the action of our Grand Loclge in refusing recognition to the Grand
Orient of Italy, although, as he states_ if we refuse to recognize the
Grand Orient of Italy hecansc she has im·aclcd the Jurisdiction of four
or five of our /\merican Grand Lodges by chartering Lodges of her
own within those Jurisdictions. we must, for the same reason, throw
England, Ireland, Scotland and ".\Iassaclmsetts into the discard.
vV e cannot understand why Brother Smith stops with Massachu
setts. \Vhy docs he not continue to enumerate California and vVashington and three or four other Grand Lodges that have established
Lodges outside of their own territorial Jurisdictions? ::\one of these
Grand Lodges, so far as we know, has ever presumed to establish
Lodges within the territorial Jurisdiction of some other Grand Lodge.
England and Scotland and Ireland have been loathe to surrender their
rights in some of the Provinces of Anstralia, for instance, and have
sometimes disputed the regularity of the formation of Grand Lodges
erected in territory where they had already chartered Lodges; ancl
there has been a conflict in Western Australia and Queensland and
elsewhere in Australia between the new Grand Lodges established in
those territories and the mother Grand Lodges of England or Ireland
or Scotlarnl that had prt'\·iously estalilishecl Loclg:cs of their own, hut
\\'e arc not aware of a single invasion by any of these Cram! Jurisdictions of territory unquestionably belonging lo another Cram\ Lodge:
hut in open territory, where no Grarnl Lodges exist. England and
Scotland and Ireland have not hesitated to establish Lodges, and

22

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

neither has :'.\Iassacl111setts or California or \Vashington or other
States. Massachusetts has Lodges chartered in Chili, in the Canal Zone
and in China; and California has today five Lodges chartered in the
Hawaiian Islands; \Vashington has one or more chartered in Alaska;
but all of these places are what is known as open territory. In the
Hawaiian Islands, for instance, Scotland chartered several Lodges.
Perhaps one of them is still in existence. California has chartered
several Lodges; and there would be no objection to Oregon or Washington or any other Jurisdiction chartering Lodges in the Hawaiian
Islands, unless, or until, the Hawaiian Islands established a Grand
Lodge of its om1: thc11 for an outside Jurisdiction to attempt to
ch;1rtcr a Lodge would be a clear im·asion of the Hawaiian Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

23

Under the caption of "Georgia," which permits a Brother to be
elected Master of a Lodge without having served as \Varden, he
expresses the opinion that Georgia is almost, if not quite, the only
Jurisdiction permitting this to be done. Georgia is surely 1rnt the only
Jurisdiction, because this is the law of California.
Grand Master, WM. C. DlTMARS, Vancouver.
Dr. A. DE\VoLF-S:-11TH, :\cw \\'cstminster, Grand Secretary.

CANADA, IN THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO.

1915.

Lodge.

California, for instance, chartered three Lodg·cs in the Philippine
Tslands. These Lodges subsequently formed a Grand Lodge, which
is rariidly gaining the recognition of the Masonic world. and it would
mm· he a clear im·asion of the Jurisdiction of th;it Grand Lodge for
California. or any other Jurisdiction, to charter a Lodge there. So
far as we knmY, none of the Grand Lodges mentioned by Brother Smith
is on ;i par with the Grand Orient of Italy, because they have not
chartered, or undertaken to charter. Lodges in territories indisputably
belonging to other Cr;incl Lodges, and Italy has. \Ve know, also, as
a matter of fact, tl1at for ;i great many years-proliably forty ycarsC;ilifornia. and, \\T helic\·e, prz1ctically all other American Jurisdictions,
rduscd to accord recognition to the Grand Lodge of Hamburg, Germany, because Hamburg had invaclcd the Jurisdiction of the State of
~ ew York and had a Loclge holding a charter from Hamburg in the
City of l\ ew York. c'\(](1 it was not until HamlJllrg, only a few years
since, \\·ithdre\\· tlw charter of its New York Lodge and put the Lodge
out of existence. that recognition of Hamburg was extended.
The Crand Orient of Italy, unlike England or Scotland or Ireland
or Massaclrnsetts or California or \Vashington. which haYc established
lodges only in open territory. has come into several of our American
Jurisdictions. like °'.'Jew Jersey, Pennsyh·ania and Illinois, and granted
charters right aml left.

59th Annual, :\iagara Falls, July 15.
Lodges, 425; members, 56,787; net gain, 2,472.
The likeness of Grand :\faster \Villiam David :.\k Pherson forms the
frontispiece of the Proceedings.
The annual address of the Grarnl :\faster is a comprchcnsi\·c am!
The
opening paragraphs set forth a synopsis of the funds, the growth in
membership, etc.
business-Ii~ statement of the condition of :\[asonry in Canada.

For the year ending May 31, 1914, the total reycm1cs were $47,341.08.
The expenditures for ordinary purposes were $17,429.03.
Grants for benevolence from the ordinary funds were $29, 193.00
ancl from interest on the investment of the semi-centennial fund were
$4,515.00, making together the sum of $33,708.00 dc\'Otcd to benevolence
in the preceding year.
The financial exhibit and statement as to membership and growth
disclose a vcrv healthy condition of ::\Iasonry in the Grand Jurisdiction
of Canada in. the Province of Ontario. :\ umerically, this Jurisdiction
is practically on a par with California.
Dispensations were issued for the formation of ten new Lodges.

Brothe1· Smith refrrs in comrlimentary terms to the oration delivered by \V orshipful Brother \Villi am R Hen·ey, and accepts our
Grand Secrc!ary\ description of the oration as a "scholarly address
\Yhich was li,ll'cwd tn with pkas1ir<' and :mrcly with prollt hy the
Hrcthren."

The Grand l\Iaster renders an account of his attendance upon
the Conference of Grand Masters at St. Louis on May 14, 1914. This
conference was undoubtedly a wry enjoyable junket to those who
attended.

Briti,lt l...'iilu111hia i11d11Jg,·,.; the \Try um1sual p1·actice of obligating
tll()rc th;111 ()!l<' c111diclatc at a timL'. Thi,.; is a practice that is extremely
rare in Craft l\Iasonry.

The Grand Master refers to the close of the Conference as being
marked by a banquet in the spacious dining-hall of the Temple of
the Mystic Shrine. He states that an "elegant menu" was served and

2!

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

intl'resting addres:;es made, which rendered the occasion one long
to be rcmcmherc>d by those who were so fortunate as to participate
therein.

made to the completion of our l\fasonic Temple, which is referred to
as ,.one of the ti nest in the world; onr Masonic Homes are referred
to in very complimentary terms, and the generosity of California's
conlrilmtion of $9,500 to the Ohio flood sufferers is referred to as
evidence of the true ]\fasonic spirit which obtains in our State.
Further reference is made to the generosity of California Masons in
the administration of the Board of Relief system of California, in
which many thousands of dollars each year are contributed to the
distressed Masons of other Jurisdictions.

Fiflel'll rulings were made Liy the Grand Master upon Masonic
questions. Some of his rulings disclose a much wider latitude in
defining physit:al qnalifications than generally prevails in American
Crane! Lodges.
For instance. he rnkd in the case of an applicant who in childhood

25

had suffered from an attack of infantile paralysis which resulted in

permanent partial paralysis of both legs, and who uses woock11 and
artilicial snppnrts, that he wonld be eligible for initiation provided he
had ability to comply literally with the requirements of the work.

Most Worshipful Brother WM. McPHERSON was re-elected Grand
Master.
Right vVorshipful Brother R. L. GvxN, Hamilton, Grand Secretary.

Another
was to the effect th::it ::i hunchback, but otherwise
qi1alificd, was eligi!Jle for initiation.
\Vhcn we reflect that it is the "inward and not the outward
qu;tlilications which recommend a man to be made a ::Vfason," \YC c::in
sec
inconsistrnt in these
although, as stated, they
disclose a wider latitndc than is generally permitted by our Grand
Lndges.

The Peace Festival, commemorating the amicable relations between
the Unitrd States and England for a hundred years, was the notable
event of this Communication, and was attended by Masons of distinction from a
number of Grand Lodges of British North
America and the lJnited States.
The addrcSS('S made upon this occasion are not embodied in the
prinwl Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, but arc to be collected and
printed in a handsome \'Olumc, a copy of which is to be presented to
en~ry Grand Lodge in the world.
It is signilicant that at this Peace Festival. at which were assembled
Grand i\fa:;tcrs a11d other of the J\fasonic functionaries from many
States of the American Union, as well as many of the British-American
Gtand Lodge, ::it which the theme of peace was the one predominant
note, that within scarcely a fortnight after that meeting possibly onehalf of the so-called civilized nations of the earth were grappled in
the mm•t stupendous and sanguinary war in the history of the world.
The Report on Correspondence is very complete and interesting,
and reviews the proceedings of more than sixty Grand Lodges. ft is
fornished by Past Grand J\.faster Brother A. T. D. Freed.
The Proceedings of Californi::i, 1913, are quite fully considered.
The J\lasonic work in California is highly commended; reference is

COLORADO.
1914.
59th Annual, Denver. September 15 and 16.
Lodges, 126; members, 16,758; gain, 619.
The likeness of the incoming Grand Master Most vVorshipful
Charles H. Dudley and that of the retiring Most Worshipful \Villiam
S. Pickerill add embellishment to the opening pages of the volume.
In his annual address, Brother Pickerill deplores, as do practically
all of the Grand Masters in their addresses, the carnage now
on in Europe.
Under the he<id of "Necrology," he made a glowing and richlydeserved tribute to that distinguished American citizen and High
Mason, Honorable Henry M. Teller, who died February 23, 1914.
He was in his life not only Grand Master of Masons of Colorado,
but one of the forc>most men of his cotmtry. He was chosen one
of two of the first United States Senators from his State after it was
admitted to the Union in 1876.
The Grand Master recalls the c1vJC history of Past Grand :\Jaster
Teller and recounts his Masonic record. which was a long, interesting
and most instructive nne, extending ov~r a period of more than fifty
years.

In the closing paragraph of his tribute to Past Grand Master
Teller he refers to him as one who stood upon the heights, one of
the really great men of the Nation, animated
a spirit of fairness

by

26

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

•
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

and justice to all; one who hdd the respect and wncration of mcll
of all political parties; one whose opinions on all national questions
were eagerly sought.
it was kit that they were founded in wisdom
and upon a true conception of right and justice; a man who was in
the broadest sense a statesman, one who measured up to the highest
standard.

In his report on
." he referred feelingly to the death
within the year of Past Grand :Master George Edward Simonton, who
was Grand Master oi Colorado in 1912-1913, and who died at Denver,
June 24, 1914.
Speaking of Brother Simonton, Grand :\{aster Pickerill, adverting
to the fact that he was born and raised in Colorado, drew attention
to those qualities of character which rendered him thoroui;hly in
sympathy with the progressiYe spirit of the Centennial State.
With 129 constituent Loclgrs, Grand :\Taster Pickerill m<:ntinns
the fact that the membership, in the year preceding, had shown a
Ycrr substanthl gain, reaching a total of nearly 17.000.
He states that from many years' association with the pccplc of
Colorado he is firmly of the belief that the best citizens of the commonwealth are found in the membership of the ilfosonic I,odges of the
State.
Touching the Bene1·olcnt Fumi. he expressed a measure of satisfaction in the conscientious manner in which it is administered and
docs not hesitate to voice the opinion that the establishment of this
Fund was wise and commendable.
Concerning
he refm;ccl one for tl1e purpose of attending church in Lodge formation and another to open a Lodge on some
hig·h point. We are in perfect sympathy with the refusal of the Grand
Master to permit a Lodge to attend church in regalia. This is a form
of dispensation frequently granted in the l\fasonic Lodges on the other
side of the Canadian line, but rarely granted in the A mcrican Grand
Lodges.
Referring to official visitatiom to Lodges, he states that there
is no feature connected with the office of Grand '\;faster that afforded
him so much pleasure as these official visits. He states that he would
have been pleased to visit every Lodge in the Jurisdiction, hut, hcing
a man busy with his own affairs, he found it impossihlc to visit more
than a comparatively small m1111hcr of Lodges, yet, through the system
of reports rendered by the Grand Lecturer and Deputy Grand :\faster,
he was in torch with all of the Lo(lgcs and made such p<:rsonal visits
as his time permitted.

27

The Rcp(1rt on Correspondence, ;tlways ni high character, is Ji,.
Past Crand l\fastcr La wrcncC' ilf. (~r<'c11 k.1 f. If C' reviewed the Pr;.
ccetlings of i11rty·t\\"1J Graw! Lrnlgc'<. Califnrnia among the m1111her.
Brother Grl'enkafs lirsl rqmrt on correspondence was n:rnkrl'd
forty-follr years ago, and the present report is the thirtieth in consecutive order. Physical affliction prevented his completing the review
of all of the Jurisdictions for the preceding year, he hcing obliged b,·
virtue of physical exhaustion to suspend hie; report after "South Dakota;,
h;1d been passed. Referring to his physical affliction, he states that
his "Conclusion" has resolved itself into ;m apology, the first time
during his long experience that he has l1ecn llnable to complete the
designs laid out upon the trestle-hoard.

He looks forward. howevf'r, as he states, to making up for the
deficiencies of his present report in his n(·xt offering·.
Brother Greenleaf need never apologize for m1y of his work. and
the greatest regret is that experienced by those who are denied the
privilege of reading a foll and complete report 11pon all of the
Jurisdictions and being obliged to suspend the perusal of his valnablc
commentaries at "South Dakota."
CHARLE:> H.

Dl'DL1'Y was elected Grand Master.

CHARL1'S H. )ACK~OK re-elected Grand Secretary.

CONNECTICUT.

1915.
127th Annual, New
February 3-4.
Lodges, 110; members, 25,378; gain, 598.
The Annual Conmnmication was presided over by the :\fost
\VorsJ.i1Jful Edgar H. Parkman, Grand l\Iaster.
The Grand ::\foster oprns his address as follows:
. "The year has indeed been an eventful one. eventful in the
111story of the wodd at larg~, grca.t nations tilled with war, the old
earth shaken to its foundation with lhe roar of cannon and the
marching tread of great armies, g-reater than the world has ever
seen .before, the air ah?vc and the water below teeming with swift
am! tireless craft scattenng deadly bombs and giant torpedoes freighted
with terror and destruction.
-

"In happy contrast to all this. here in America we have had a
year unmarked by great happenings, but eventful still in the emphasis
which has been put npon that divine sentiment of
and good

2S

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

will' prnclainwd hy angelic voices so
Jndca and expressing itsdi as never
equality, 1he fratc>rnity ni the <lay in

above the plains of
the philanthropy, the
arc glad to he living."

l:ndcr the heading of "Necrology," he speaks feelingly of the
death of Past Grand ]\faster \Vilbur S. Comstock. who died at his
home in East Haddam, September 10, 1914.
Brother Comstock was active in :Yiasonry for a great many years
in Connecticut. He served the Grand Lodge in various capacities
and was elect eel Most \Vorshipful Grand Master and served in that
capacity in 1913. His death was greatly deplored.
Mention is made also of the death within the year of Past Junior
Grand \Varden Right ·worshipful Edmund Tweedy, who passed away
at his home in Xew York City l\Iay 1, 1914.
Cnder "Decisions," the Grand }faster states that no questions were
submitted to him for decision within the year which could not be
answered by rdcrring to the constitution. the general rules and
regulations. aml comequently no official decisions were rendered.
One of the features of the Grand Master's address is the record
of visitations made by him to Sl1bordinate Lodges of the J ttrisdiction,
his round of nsitation covering, we should judge, practically every
district of the State.
Besides visitations to his own Subordinates, Grand Master Parkman
managed lo accept the hospitalities of other Grand Jurisdictions, these
\'L<itations Gtrrying him as far, at
as }lassachusctts, New York,
Delaware and Canada. He rdcrs particularly to the very great pleasure
which he enjoyrd in his Yisit to the Grand Lodge of Canada, in the
Province of
at which time there was celebrated the one
hundredth anniversary of peace between America and England. At
this Jtthilcc there were representatives from a large number of American and Canadian Grand Lodges, and the occasion was altogether one
of great enjoyment.
This celebration took place a brief fortnight before the ultimatum
dispatched hy Austria to Scrvia which precipitated the awful and
stupendous conflict, the most sanguinary in the world's history, now in
prngTcss on the continent of Europe.
A feature of this Jurisdiction is the cclebration'of what is known
as "Grand Master's Day." It was decided this year to hold the celebration at the Masonic Home at Wallingford. September 25, the date
of the dedication of the Home on the l wenty-fifth anniversary of its
incorporation. The attendance upon this occasion \Vas exceedingly

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

29

gratifying and the affair stands out as the red-letter day of Masonry
ll1 this Jurisdiction in the year.
The Grand l\fast<:r refers with approval to the \Vashington National
Masonic Memorial Association, and expresses the hope that the Grand
Lodge will contribute substantially in a financial way to the enterprise.
Definite action, however, was not taken by the Grand Lodge concerning
the matter.
Grand ]\faster Parkman refers to }fasonic Conferences 1)f Grand
Masters, and while he finds nothing objectionable in these conferences,
so far as he is able to discover, except the tendency which seems to
he latent and for the most part unexpressed, to bring about a General
Grand Lodge, which scheme he reprobates, re.ferring particularly with
disapproval to the proposition emanating from the Grand Lodge of
Oregon to hold a conference having this purpose in view.
Outside of the two or three proponents of the scheme, we have
not found in our reading more than one (and that a small Canadian
Jurisdiction) that seems to favo.r the proposition.
The Report on Corre,,pondence is, as usual, by Past Grand l\Iaster
George A. Kies, wbo is also Grand Secretary. He states at the
outset of his report that, owing to the unusual bulk of the 1915
Proceedings. he has endeavored to condense and abbreviate his reports
more than usual. Condensation is not always a fault and we think in
us the substance
this instance that Brother Kies has managed to
of tbe transactions of the various Grand Lodges.
Certain paragraphs of his Conclusion contain food for thought, and
we quote from his Conclusion, as follows:
"Many students and thinkers opine that a present-day Masonic
evil lies in a tendency of Grand Lodges to over-legislate. One instance
is shown in the anti-liquor legislation. The different decisions and
interpretations based on such laws show that certain classes arc
ineligible in some States and eligible in others. While we hold no
brief for the saloonkeeper, and fr<:elv concede that ninety-nine out oi
every hundred of them are nndesirahle, we see no more need of special
legislation regarding them than in the cases of opium-sellers, prizefighters, thieves, etc. If Lodges themselves cannot be trusted to
dispose of every application upon its own merits or demerits, what
ho'pe is there for our Fraternity? In this connection, it may be stated
that, in one Grand Lodge, a resolution was introduced forbidding
Lodges from receiving a petition from any manager, editor. or proprietor of a newspaper which advertises the sale of liquor. Xaturally,
this \Vas found too extreme and was rejected.

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Some correspondents manifest impatience with the law, common
in most Jurisdictions, requiring inter-state correspondence to be conducted through the Grand Lodge, and cba racterize it as 'useless red

30

REPORT O:\" CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

tape.' Our 0\\'11 law. adoptC'd in li'\85. \\·;is caused by the fact that
n11p of our Lodges had conferred the ;\l. l\l. degree upon a F. C. of
a clandestine Lodge, by request of the latter, and in ignorance of the
fact that they were dealing with a spurious body. Upon learning of
this, our then
:\I. issue<! an edict
all inter-state correspondence to be
through thl' (~rand
The latter
enacted this into om law. In view
the
that Lodges of
lack detailed knowledge as to
bodies in other States, the
\\'isdom and expediency of this regulation is app<trent.
"The
proposal to form a s<wereign General Grand Lodge
dcscrH:dly
\·cry few a<h-ocates.
"The matter of publishing :\Iasonic news in newsp;ipers,
becoming a serious one. Such items are sometimes incorrect and
misleading,
when appearing ·n standard .Masonic
Again, much
printed which shorl 1 never become public.
it were far bctkr for the Fraterni;" if newspapers could be nrpvf'ntl'<1
from even mentioning us. And
is certain that the most extreme
discretion should be med in giving out information.
"Some Jurisdictions require a newly-made lid. Jl.L to
examination as to proficiency before he c;m vote or
While the intent of such law i:-: g·o()(l, it seems an invasion
natural rights. And one J uriscliction requires that all Masters
possess a Grand Lodge certificate of ability before election. If the
word installation were substituted for that of election, we believe the
law would be correct. As it now stands, it would seem to indirectly
encourage electioneering and wire-pulling for that high office.
"So far as growth and finances are concerned, Masonry
to be flourishing to a high degree everywhere in the United States.

conntless thousands each year, and this whether war rages or not.
Among the fraternal dead to which he refers, particular notice
gi"en to Past Grand :\faster Enoch Moore. who had in his lifetime
been very active in Masonic work, and who had the distinction of being
Grand Master at the time the ::\fasonic H omc was dedicated.

California, 1914, is fraternally reviewed. Quotations are made from
the report of Grand l\laster Murphy and :\Iasonic Homes C.>mmittce.

l\I.'. \V.'. CLARENCE E. A GS'l'IN. Danbury, Grand :\faster.
:\1.'. \V.'. G110RGE A. K1F.s. Hartfnrd, Grand Secretary.

31

Those who were "associated with him in his work are the ones
who will most keenly feel the loss of his genial prcs,•ncc and his usdul
life.
The Grand Master refers to the fact that he visited in his term
of office eVC'ry Lodge in the Jnrisdicticn. He also visited upon several
occasions sister Grand Juris(lictions. referring especially to his attendance upon the !27th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
New Jersey.
Only one decision was made by him and that was upon a purely
local question.

lt is significant that this J urisdictinn, which has a mcmh--Tship of
scarcely more than 3,000, maintains a :\fa.<onic Home which is administered with much attention to detail at which the comfort of the
re;.;idcnts is carefolly consiJcrc(l. and the aclministralion is both wi'c
and economic.
The Grand :\Jaster refers to his attendance at the Fourth Annual
meeting of the
\Vashington :'.\fasonic ::\ ational ::\Iemorial Assoc1at1011. He commends its purposes, and we believe that Delaware
is fully committed to
reasonahle support of the project.
By action of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands was accorded full Masonic recognition. The matter of recognition of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico was postponed, owing largely
to the unsettled condition of that country.

1914.

The Report on
Correspondence is by Past Grand ]\faster
Harry Jones Guthrie. The report, while not extensive, contains a large
amount of useful information and intelligent comment.

109th A111111al Communication, \Vilmington, October i 8.
Lodges, 22; members, 3.436; net gain, 78.

California did not appa rcntly reach the tahle of the reviewer, as
California is not contained in the report.

DELAWARE.

The Grand ]\Jaster. in his address, refers to the fact that across
the seas more than one-half of the nations of the earth arc plunged
into a mad, relentless war. He feelingly refers to the umlouhted fact
that among the innumerable unmarked graves that are concealed
heneath the sod are many Fellows of the Craft who gave their lives
in defense of their country, martyrs lo a catl.'C whether just or unjust,
yet a war precipitated, no doubt, by the ambitions of hereditary rnlers.
The Grand Master calls attention to the work of the Grim
Destroyer, who is always moving ahout and tot1ching with bis wand

?II.'. \V.'. \V:1r. E. V.\r.11:x'l' of Laurel was elected <irand Mastl'r.
R.'. Vv.'. VlRG!Nlt:S G. H.\RRlSON rc-ekctcd Grand Secretary.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
1914.
104th Annual, \Vashington, December lG.
Lodges. 30; membership, 9,924; net gain, 325.
In his address, the <iraml ]\faster. as one of the ontstanding
inci<lcnts of his administration, presents the case of a J misdictional

----- --------

32

REPORT 01'< CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

conflict with the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania. The case is exhaustively presented and the crux of the entire matter is whether the
Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, where no one can become
a citizen in the sense of being a voter, can confer the Degrees of
".\Iasonry upon one who is a political citizen of another J urisdietion,
although as a matter of fact a resident of the District of Columbia.
The controversy in question arose from the fact that the District
of Columbia, which requires from one who seeks membership in any
of the Masonic Lodges, a bona fide continued residence of a year,
accepted the petition from such a resident, although, as above indicated,
being a political citizen of Pennsylvania.
Grand Master ?\ewton made a very logical presentation of the
case from his standpoint, deiending the action of the District of
Colmnhia Lodge, which conferred the Degrees, and we believe his
position was correct and that the contention made by Pennsylvania
1 hat the District of Columbia had 110 j llrisdiction was not tenable.
One of the decisions of the Grand l\Iaster \\·as to the effect that no
member of a Lodge below the rank of Warden could, at the request of
the l\Iaster of the Lodge, who was present in the Lodge, preside in the
East.
The Committee on J urbpru<lcnce upheld this decision of the
Grand Master, but the decision was, as we believe, properly overruled
hy the Grand Lodge itself, which held that it was proper for any :Mason
tn res[Jond to the request of the Master of a Lodge, or the presiding
\Varden at the request of the l\fasrer, or such \Varden to preside
in his absence, or under his direction, in the East, the Master
or Acting l\lastcr being responsible for all that is done the same as
if he were actually presiding in person himself.
'I'he Grand 1\Iastcr was invited to attend the Conference of Grand
::\lastcrs, held in St. touis in ".\lay. He was unable to attend, but
deputized one oi the Past Crand ".\last<:rs to attend in his stead. The
(:rand :\faster expressed a favorable opinion of this conkrcnce. \Ve
arc imahlc to agree with this conclusion. They wilr be made, if
contimwd, and if it is possihlc to do so, the forerunner of a General
Grand Lodge, and that this is the covert purpose of at least some of
the leading spirits in these conferences is unquestionably trut?, although
the conferences have invariably, so far as they could do so officially,
denied emphatically and indignantly that any such purpose is in contemplation, yet we 11nd one of the great Jurisdictions of this country
formally inviting the other American and Canadian Jurisdictions to
join in an open effort to create a Supreme Grand Lodge.

33

The purpose, we are satisfied, would nc\·er succeed, yet, what is the
good accomplished by these annual junkets and conferences that
annually pass and re-pass the same resolutions "suggesting" uniformity
111 certain things in which uniformity is in no sense necessary or vital?
Requests for recognition from the Grand Lodge of Nicaragua
and the Grand Lodge Xational of Franct• were carried over.

A resolution offered by .i\Iost Worshipful George \V. Baird, Past
Grand .i\faster, was ado[Jted, to the effect that a copy of the Holy Bible
shall in future in all cases be deposited in the cavity of every cornerstone laid 1Iasonically in that Jurisdiction.
The Grand .Master speaks enthusiastically of the work being
accomplished by the ".\fasonic and Eastern Star Home of the J urisdiction, an institution that is fnlfilling in a most capable manner its
functions of benevolent usefulness.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is from the learned and
scholarly Past Grand Master George \V. Baird, it being his fifteenth
annual report.
His re·1iews are interesting and instructivl'.
fraternally considered.

California, 1914, is

He makes a brief resume of the report of Grand .Master Murphey.
He speaks in terms of praise of our Masonic Homes, and, after quoting
from the report of the Superintendent of the Masonic Homes, he
refers to the home at San Gabriel, "which like a bud is unfolding
each year into a beautiful rose," and makes a beautiful and significant
contrast between the Home and another feature of the town of San
Gabriel, as follows:
".~fay we invite attention to another Ht)me at San Gabriel? An
adobe hut. with crazy towers and cracked bells. with pitifully daubed
pictmcs of saints: rough stone floors on the level of the street; a small,
ill-kept grave-vard and an immense grape-vine are all that is visible.
hut the proclalnation 'we settled all this country' is clanged from the
verv bells. For more than two centuries this :'>fission of San Gabriel,
witf1 its petticoated sorcerers, has bcl'n collecting tithes from the [Joor
people in the neighborhood, while within the sound of the tinkle of
those hells a heretic named Baldwin pm 50,000 acres of land under
cnltivation within two decades, and now the merry voices of the wellfed and happy children in the l\fasons' Home give music to that summer
dream."

A part of Brother Baird's "Conclusion" will at least be appreciated
for the information it contains. even if for no other reason:
"It is the wish and the hope of all gnod Masons to preserve the
Order in its pristine purity and integTity; but, to insnre this, we should

I'

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

repudiate modern fads which arc arrayed as progression, but which
are manifestations of the ambition of politicians, to keep in the limelight.

offenders of the law that they spend in urging further legislation on
the subject we would all profit."

34

"A year ago we said our liberties were more interfered with than in
the time of George TII, when our ancestors rebelled. We have, more
than once, pointed the intemperate and hysterical prohibition fad, but
that is only pa rt.

35

Au:xANJll\R GRAN'!', Grand i\Iastcr, \Vashington, D. C.
ARVJNE \V.

JoHNSTOK, Grand Secretary, Washington, D. C.

"Liberty has been defined as the citizen's right to live and act as he
thinks best so long as his conduct does not i1wade a like right of
others.

ENGLAND.

"Today, howeycr, the intimation, if not the declaration, of part
of our people is to oblige others to do what they want us to do. The
suspension of the habeas corpus privileges in West Virginia during the
strike of 1912: the placing of a Washington town under martial law
in order to enforce the liquor law; the forbidding of newspaper reports
of executions in :\Iinnesota, and the eugenic laws in at least two States
are examples. Added to this is the boycott of local papers by a religious
sect, to prcnnt the further publication of a tragedy.

After much preliminary work and arranging, W.". Rt. Hon. Sir T.
Vanscttart Bowater, Lord l\fayor of London, nominated His Royal
Highness, the Duke of Connaught, for Grand Master. This was
seconded by w:. Bro. Wilson (P. G. S.), M.". w:. Pro Grand
Master, and the Grand Master was duly proclaimed re-elected. All
the Brethren then stood. while W. ·. Bro. J. S. Granville Grenfell,
M. A. (Grand Director of Ceremonies), proclaimed H. R. H. the
Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, duly elected as l\Iost Worshipful
Grand Master of Free and Accepted Masons of England, as follows:

"If another object-lesson is needed to prove the horrors of substitution of morphine, cocaine, etc., ·for alcoholic stimulants, we have
it in the recent exposures in the Tombs and other 'correctional institutions' in New York City. The drugs were smuggled in with the food
supplies from dealers nearby. The discovery and the sudden ~essation
of the supply resulted in piteous ravings of the prisoners, said to be
agonizing to hear.

"It was estimated that 'several thousand dollars' worth of the
poisons were sold in the city institutions of N cw York alone in a
single week.'
"Two women were arrested in Eighth Avenue near Thirty-eighth
Street on June 15 by detectives, who had cocaine and a cocaine-needle
in their possession, and who charged a dime a 'shot' for the drug.
They were said to be driving a thri,·ing business.
"Police Commissioner \Voods, in Kew York City, observed that
'60 per cent of the unfortunates [persons arrested] are drug victims,'
which was verilied in the trial of five men, who were arraigned for
offenses directly due to drugs. They were charged with surrepti~ious
sale of heroin and cocaine. One fellow carried his goods in the silver
handle of his cane.
"\Vhile legislation, in the interest of Temperance, has practically
put the little German becr-garclens out of business, it has been followed
by the substitution of this deadly drug business; it has created a market
for the sale of active and insidious drugs, in small packages, and has
decimated the sale of the diluted malt stimulants which were sold
openly.
"Of two evils we should choose the lesser, when we find we cannot
abolish l1oth. Legislation can never control the craving of N atur~tl
it may rnoclih it. hut if the soi disant temperance advocates wou
spend half as -much time and rnergy in bringing to justice the drunken

1914-15.

"Be it known, that the Most High, Most Mightv and Most Illustrious Prince, Arthur William Patrick Albert, Duke -~f Connaught and
Strathearn, Ear! of Sussex, Duke of Saxony, Prince of Saxe-Coburg
and Gotha, Kmg':t of the Most N oblc Order of the Garter, Knight
of the Most Ancient and Most N able Order of the Thistle Kniaht
of the Most Illustrious Order of St. Patrick, Great Master ;nd First
and Principal Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Order of
the Bath, Knight Granc1 Commander of the Most Exalted Order of
the Star of In~ia, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished
Order of St. Michael and St. George, Knight Grand Commander of
the Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire, Knight Grand Cross of
the Royal Victorian Order, one of His Majesty's Most Honourable
Privy Council, Field Marshal of the Army, Governor-General and
Commander-in-Chief of the Dominion of Canada, etc., etc., etc., has
been elected l\Iost Worshipful Grand ::\laster of the United Fraternitv
of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of England, for the ensuing.
year, whom may the Great Architect of the Universe long preserve."
·
A scheme has been proposed to pension the clerical force of the
Grand Lodge at the age of 65 years.
Since the outbreak of the European \\"ar, the Grand Lodge of
England has enacted legislation whereby brethren of alien birth,
belonging to Lodges under English J uriscliction, are excluded. This
important and far-reaching demand was made with respect to German,
Austrian and Turkish Masons who arc members of English Lodges.
The friction caused by the presence of these foreign-born Masons
brought about the action, and to, prescn·c peace and harmony within
the Lodges it was resolved that such Masons should be required to

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

abstain from attendance either at the Grand or Subordinate Lodges
while the war lasted.

He regards '.\fasonry, and other fraternal organizations, as a great
e<1ualizer in society, and places it side by side with religion as among
the most potential clements in the progress of the human race. As
an institution he finds that .!\fasonry lays its foundations upon the firm
conviction of belief in the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of
'.\1an, and is certain in his belief that no nation can adopt these grand
tenets without striding onward and upward in political, moral life.

36

This action has caused a great deal of protest even from English
'.\Iasons, and a great deal of a<ln.:rse comment, yet the action of the
English Grand Lodge in the exclusion of these brethren of alien birth
for the time being seems to he justified.
'.\fasons everywhere deplore the barbarities of war and the awful
sacrifice of human life. This is not altogether because of the dreadful
carnage on the battlefields and in the trenches, but is because of the
widows and orphans that will be left helpless and many of them
<loomed to die of starvation and want.
The previous action of the Grand Lodges of Germany along lines
similar to that taken by the Grand Lodge of England indicates that
even the ties of the greatest fraternal
the world has ever
known seem not beyond severance in the present maelstrom of strife
and embitterment which is overwhelming the nations of Europe.
The Annual Grand Festival was held on April 29,
M.". w: ·
Brother Rt. Hon. Lord Ampthill in the throne. Grand Lodge was
opened in .\mplc Form with prayer. The Grand Director of Ceremonies proclaimed :
"Be it known, that the Right Hon. Arthur Oliver Villiers, Baron
Ampthill, of Ampthill, in the County of Bedford, Knight Grand Commander of the T\fost Exalted Order of the Star of India, Knight Grand
Commander of the T\Iost Eminent Order of the Indian Empire, Deputy
Lieutenant for the County of Bedford, ] ustice of the Peace for the
same county, !',faster of Arts of the University of Oxford. Colonel 3rd
Battalion Bedfordshire Regiment. R.". w:. Provincial Grand Master
for the Province of Bedfordshire, etc., etc., etc., has been appointed
and installed M:. \V.". Pro Grand Master of the United Fraternity
of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of England for the ensuing
year; and Sir Edward Letchworth, Gr;md Secretary."

FLORIDA.

1915.
86th Annual. Jacksonville, January 19.
225; members, 12,051; gain, 607.
The Grand Master, in the opening portion of his address, states
that he is impressed from the reports which he has received from the
District Deputy Grand '.\faster and otherwise with the conviction that
Masonry in the Juriscliction is in a most excellent and flourishing
condition.

37

Under "!\ t'crology," he refers with deep feeling to the death
within the vcar of one of the best beloved Past Grand Masters of
the Jurisdiction, '.\lost Worshipful Henry W. Long. Brother Long's
life was closelv linked with the histon' of the Grand Lodge of Florida,
and he was re~arded as one of the tow~rs of strength of the Jurisdiction.
The i\lasonic activities of Grand '.\faster Wilson were numerous;
eight Lodges, which had received charters at the preceding Annual
Comnmnication. were dnly constituted; dispensations were granted
for three new Loclges; sen~ral Special Communications of the Grand
Lodge were held for purposes of placing cornerstones of public buildings, etc.
The Grand l\Iastcr states that he received within the year requests
for rulings on Masonic law. Most of these requests were answered
hy rcierring the inquirers to the Digest, or l\fasonic Cmlc. and the
other questions ·decided did not i1n-olve. we believe, any new Masonic
principles, although two or three of his decisions were perhaps unusual.
For instance. he ruled that it was not necessary for an application
for affiliation to be in writing, !mt that it could he either written or
verbal. That may state the law as it is in Florida, but does not,
however, conform to the practice in California. An application for
membership must of necessity be in writing.
Another was to the effect that it was 11ot necessary to re-ballot
in order to have the Entered Apprentice Degree conferred on a
candidate who has waited ten years to he initiated.
Another was that a Mason who had declared that he did not
believe in God and the Holy Bible could not
upon request, a
dimit, hut that the Lodge should prefer charges, and if the brother is
found guilty, expel him.

In our humble judgment, the brother, if a believer in God, as he
must have been at the time of his initiation, and if regularly made a
Mason, is entitled to a dimit, even though he might, subsequent
to his initiation, have changed his views upon the subject of the'
existence of Diety.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The subject of a Masonic Home and Orphanage is one to which
the serious attention of this J nrisdiction is addressed. A fund is in
process of accumnlation with the prohahility that ultimately a home
and orphanage will be established, and to this end a motion was made
and carried that an annual assessment of 50 cents per capita he made
upon the Lodges of the Jurisdiction to be turned over to the :Masonic
Home and Orphanage for the building and rmdntenance of such institution. An effort was made to reconsider this motion, but the effort
failed, and the motion, as originally carried, stood.

in the body of }fasonry, hut he takes occasion to remind bis readers
that the 11se of flags in Masonic processions is as old as the organization
of the first Grand Lodge' at London.

38

'I'he best part of the volume of Proceedings is the Report of the
Committee on Correspondence, by the Chairman ::\fost \Vorshipful
Silas B. \Vright, it being his thirteenth annual report.
Of Masonic reporters he is one of the most learned in the lore and
litcrntnre of l\Iasonry, and his reports arc always a mine of 1\fasonic
information.
In discnssing, under the caption of California. the qnestion as
to the true province of the Correspornkncc Committee, he states that,
having been a clo;;e student of the writings of such Masonic jurists as
Drummond of Maine, C11nningfo11n of Ohio, Parvin of Iowa, Jenks of
\Visconsi11, Robins of Jllinois, and others, he helievcs that the proposition to curtail comment and deny criticism dc·stroys, to a great extent,
the benefits to be derived from the correspondence reports.
He believes that it is only through comments and criticisms that
facts regarding, for instance, the origin of Grand Lodges, the rules
for recognition. the rights of Grand Lodges in the degrees in the
Scottish Rite, and other so-called higher organizations, can be folly
presented and understood hy members of the Craft, and he states that,
in his opinion, more information can be obtained by the Masters of
the Lodges and the younger brethren by reading correspondence reports
than in any other way, and we are inclined, upon reflection, to think
that he is nearly right in his views upon this subject.

In his conunents under "Canada," he allows it to be understood
that he regards the Grand Lodge of Queensland as perfectly legitimate
and regular. and states that. in his belief, the difference between this.
Grand Lodge and the Grand Lodge of England would have been
settled long ago except for the apparent vindictive activities of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland.
Under "Iowa," in commenting on a little episode that occurred
in one of the Lodges in the gift of a silk flag to the Lodge by one of
the brethren, he states that probably some of our "hide-bound"
brethren of some of the States will think that this is a serious innovation

39

l\fasons arc taught to he trne to country, and the flag is a symbol
of the government, which proclaims liberty. There is no place where
it should receive a more hearty welcome than in a Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons.
In his comments under "Iowa," in discussing the general subject
of the so-called Conferences of Grand Masters held in recent years,
he gives a list of similar efforts which have been made in the past to
establish a Xational Grand Lodge, which efforts have in all cases
resulted in failure.
Under "Illinois," he quotes from the Correspondence Report of
Past Grand Master Scott interesting statistics and information regarding Masonic organizations throughout the world, setting forth the
groups of Lodges that are considered absolutely regular, and other
groups tainted with irregularity and not entitled, under a proper
interpretation of Masonic law, to recognition.
In his comments under "1\Iichigan," he mentions Palestine Lodge
No. 357 as the .largest Lodge in Michigan and the second largest in
the United States. Palestine is, of course. the largest Lodge in Michigan, and, we believe, it is not only the largest Lodge in Michigan, but by
far the largest Lodge in the United States. If there is any other Lodge
in the United States that has a total membership within gunshot of
Palestine Lodge we would like to know where it is located
Under "Oregon," in commenting upon a statement made by the
Grand Master in his annual report that he had granted recognition
•to the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands. he states what is undoubtedly true that this is hardly consistent with generally accepted Masonic
law, that the Grai1d Master can grant recognition to other Grand
Lodges, this action being an exclusive prerogative of the Grand Lodge
itself.
In his conclusion, Brother \Vright discusses, in a learned manner,
a number of exceedingly interesting questions. "Progressive balloting"
is one of the subjects discussed, something which is apparently receiving
the attention of certain Jurisdictions. Oklahoma. for instance, is
one, the idea being in Jurisdictions where the ballot is spread for each
degree one black ball is sufficient to reject for the first degree, two
for the second, three for the third, the evident purpose being in increasing the number of adverse votes to afford a measure of protection of

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

or discord mars the beautiful harmony that prevails. and i1 is a
standing monument to the truly Masonic qualities of the brethren at
Sa\·;umah, Georgia, where the Lodge is located.
He states that he has had a great many requests. to construe
::\lasonic law. Most of these questions he answered by reference to
the Digest, and only a few questions were dignified by decisions.
All of his decisions were appro\·ed; one of them, referring to the
prohibition question, may be of interest simply as it shows the trend
of thought in a sister Jurisdiction on a question of the hour. The
decision was, in effect, that a Mason violating the prohibition law
cannot pnrge himself of his unmasonic co:iduct by appearing in open
Lodge and acknowledging his transgression. The Grand Lodge, so
the decision nms, has put a stamp of disaprroval on the liquor traffic
in no uncertain manner, and if a l\fason knowingly violates the inhibition he has no cause to comrlain when he is punished for unmasonic
conduct.
Another decision which may be of interest is to the effect that it
is in the discretion of a Subordinate Lodge to dismiss charges against
one who has been guilty of unmasonic conduct when such brother
appears in open Lodge, acknowledges his transgression and asks forgi\·ene,;s. The idea of l\[asonry, it is stated, is to build up, not to tear
clown. This is certainly good doctrine if the offense charged is not of
too serious a character, and there seems to he something of a conflict
between this decision and the one previously quoted.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
"~e know not what it me.ans, clear, this desolate heart-pain;
This dread to take our daily way and walk in it again;
We know not to what other sphere the loved who. leave us o- 0
Nor why we're left to wonder still; nor why we do not kno~\-'.

"But this we know: Our loved and dead, if they should come this davS~10u.ld come and ask us, 'What is life?' not one of us could say;
•
•
Life is a mystery as deep as ever death can be
Yet, oh, how sweet it is to us, this life \YC live' and sec.
;'Then might they say-these vanquished ones-and blessed is the thought I
So death is sweet to us, beloved! though we mav tell vc nau<rht ·
"' '
l. e may not tell us, 1f ye would, the mystery of breath.'

\;1 e may not tell it t? the quick-this mystery of ·death_:_

··\Ve knll\\' not what it is. this slL·cp so deep and ;.till;
The folded hands, the awful calm, the check so pale and chill;
TIH lids th;1t will not lift again. though we may call and call,
The strange, \Yhitc solitrnlc of reacc that settles over all.

•

The Report on Correspondence is by Brother Charles L. Pass,
being the third from his pen. The report is an intelligent and interesting
review of the Proceedings of the Yarious Grand Jurisdictions, from
which, however, California is omitted, our report apparently not having
reached the table of the Grand Reviewer.
l\I.'. \V.'. ~- H. BALLARD of Brunswick was elected Grand Master.
R.'. \V.'. \V. A.. \'1oLJHJN, 2\Iacon, Grand Secretary.

IDAHO.
1914.

Georgia greatly exceeds California in the number of new Lodges,
:ilthough in membership our State is probably 15.000 ahead of Georgia.

The Grand :\laster has some cloqurnt paragraphs under the heading
oi '':>: ccrology," and closes this part of the address with these unquoted
lines :

c

"The child who enters life comes not with knowledge or intent
So those who enter death must go as little children sent
'
]\'" othing is known. But I believe that God is overhead".
And as life is to the living, so death is to the dead."
'

Eight dispensations were granted for new Lodges within the year,
making the total number of Lodges 654.

. \pprm·al is gi\·en to the George \Vashington Memorial Association
and the membership of Georgia in that c\ssociation was ordered con-,
tinned.

43

47th Annual, Coeur d'Alene, September 8, 9, 10.
Lodges, 64; members, 4,413; net gain, 319 .
Curtis F. Pike, Grand Master, opened the Annual Communication
Ample Form; 47 Lodges were represented, and charters were
granted to three Lodges, previously working under dispensation.
111

In his Annual Address, Grand Master Pike states at the outset
that he will eliminate from his report all matters of routine character
which involve no new principle and will confine himself to matters that
should be reserved for future reference.

Notwithstanding this notice of breyity, he renders a report of
more than twenty pages of closely-printed matter on subjects of general
interest.

44

REPORT

O~

REPORT ON CORRl<JSPO'.'.'DBJNCE.

CORRESPONDBNCK

He pays a deserved an<l eloqne11l tribute to 1he memory of Past
Grand Master James :\lonw Pinney, whn was Crand ]\faster in 1893
and, after passing the Oril'ntal Chair. was chosen in the following
year as one of the Trustees of the Crand Lodge Orphan Fund, which
position he filled hy drtue of st1ccessi\'e re·elections to the end of his
life.
Past Grand i\fa.ster Pinney was one of the pillars of Masonry in
the Jurisdiction of fdaho and his loss is keenly felt by the brethren
of that State.
Grand l\faster Pike dsited nearly. hut not quite, all of the sixty.four
Lodges of his Jurisdiction. II e paints with a rich coloring his tour
of visitation, and records the many spirited greetings he received from
the brethren throughout the great Jurisdiction, and the lasting impression which these visits made upon his mind, and no doubt, upon the
minds of those with whom he came in contact.
He refers partirnlarly to one of the meetings held in this tour
nf visitation to Boise Lodge :t\ o. 2 for the purpose of paying a tribute
of respect to their oldest and hest-heloved member, Brother Jonas \V.
Brown, the second Grand }faster of the Jurisdiction, the occasion being
Brother Brown's eighty-ninth birthday.
The Grand Master states that addresses were made hy prominent
members and pioneer associates of Brother Brown, all of whom paid
a tribute to him for the many years of unsellish service to the
Fraternity. The Grand Master states that the whole effort was unique
and impressiYe to an unusual degree.
Brother Brown appears to have been a Mason for more than
sixty-five years, and for forty·seycn years, ever since the foundation of
the Grand Lodge, he has been in that body a tower of strength.
The Crand Master refers with reprobation to a law of his J Llrisdiction that permits a candidate who has been rejected hy a Lodge having
concurrent Jurisdiction with other Lodges in a city, after the statutory
period, to petition one of the other Lodges holding this concurrent
Jurisdiction, instead of being reqnired to again place his petition in the
Lodge that rejected him. He st:1tes that this is a palpable violation
of the rights of the rejectin?; Lodge; he believes that it induces discord
among the brothers, and that it cannot he iustifiecl by any of the
traditions of Freemasonry, etc.-and yet, this is the law of California,
and we arc sttre of many other Jnrisdictions.
f daho has one of the hest systems for disbursing l\iiasonic Grand
Lodge charity of :rny of our American Jurisdictions and, while the

'4,5

membership of Idaho is k,;s than 5.000, the Crawl Lodge Charity Fund
is rapidly approaching the $100.CXXl mark and all of her Grand Lodge
charity obligations arc most generously fultilkcl.
The Grand ::\faster draws attention to that which has frequently
been pointed out, that it is a mistaken idea that any tolerably good man,
of whom no ill is known, has a right to he a ::\Iason; he states that
no man, however high his position, has any right to be made a Mason.
Masonry demands of her suitors that they shonh! be good men and
true before they receive her favors, as well as afterwards. ?llasonry
is not a reformatory institution. It does not take had men with the
idea of reforming them. It takes only good men, who m:iy, however,
become better men; and he points out that most of the trouble in
Subordinate Lodges resulting from the improper use of the black hall
and in the incurring of expense in taking care of decayed and afflicted
::\fasons, arises from accepting material into the Lodge that should never
' have been received, and that if the care which it is presumed to take
is exercised in the selection of material these troubles that arc indicated
above will rarely occur.
The Report on •Foreign Correspondence is hy Brother George B.
Knepper. Brother Knepper's report is full of excellencies. He makes
some fine observations in his reviews of the various jurisdictions. He
refers to om Communication of 1913 in a very generous fashion; he
commends the address of Grand Master Filmer and speaks in eomplimentary terms of the oration of Brother Hervey, an cl commends our
a'ctivities in the administration of Masonic good will, particularly as
shown in our Masonic Homes.
Under the caption of "Prince E<lward [stand," he affirms hi' belief
in -the Masonic landmark of the right of a Mason "to travel'' and to
visit his brethren in foreign lauds without demanding so-called traveling
cards arnl certificates of membership. In other words, he believes that
the Mason sh on Id carry the evidence of his ::\1 asonry in his head.
rather than in his leather wallet.
ANDREW CHRISTF.NSF.N. Sand Pt., Crane! :M:aster.
T1n:0Pmr.us W. RANDALL, Boise, Grand Secretary.

..

4G

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPOXDENCE.

ILLINOIS.

those organizations which will respond most prompt!\' and with the
greatest liberality."
·

47

1914.

75th Annual, Chicago, October 13.
Lodges, 824; members, 130,778.
This Annual Communication was one of unusual interest on
account of the celebration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the
foundation of the Grand Lodge. An elaborate program of music,
speeches, etc, was carried out, the same having been prepared by Special
Committee appointed for the purpose, and intense enthusiasm marked the
entire ceremony.
An address of welcome was delivered by Most \Vorshipful Leroy
A. Goddard, Past Grand Master.
Past Grand Master Owen Scott, Chairman of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, spoke of "The Past"; Past Grand Master
Alexander H. Bell took for his topic "The Present," and J\fost \Vorshipful William B. Wright, "The Future."
The occasion was undoubtedly a most delightful one and was
thoroughly enjoyed by the brethren of the Grand Lodge.
From the splendid address of Grand Master Burnap, we make the
following quotation:
"An institution like ours, free from sectarian prejudice and political
hias, and having for its prime objects the general uplift of mankind
and the relief of the distressed, appeals with peculiar force to thoughtful
and intelligent men. And while the influence and application of the
principles of the Fraternity have not yet been accorded that world-wide
recognition which renders them effective in the settlement of international disputes, may we not cherish the hope that the teachings of
.Freemasonry will ultimately lead men of every country, sect and
opinion to recognize the universal brotherhood of man and that the
Craft may win its greatest victory in hastening the approach of the
day when the badge of courage shall no longer be red and the records
of the deeds of heroes cease to be written in blood.
"In the great conflict now in progress among the nations of Europe
our modern civilization has already suffered a staggering blow. Thousands of lives and millions of treasure are being sacrificed on the alt3r
of national ambition, jealousy and avarice, to be followed by untold
suffering, poverty and despair. \Vhilc we rejoice that we live amid
the blessing of peace and prosperity, we cannot remain indifferent to
the
of suffering humanity in other lands. The time seems not
far
when the Fraternity will have its greatest opportunity to
demonstrate to the world that brotherly iove and relief are truly
among its most prized tenets, and when the appeal comes I cannot
hut believe that our great institution will be found foremost among

The Grand Master referred feelingly to the death within the
year of certain memhers of the Grand
particular reference being
,
made to Past Grai1d Master John Robert Thomas.
The Grand Master refers to having received a resolution, adopted
by the Grand Lodge of Oregon, relative to the formation of a General
Grand Lodge, and upon this subject Grand :\faster Burnap expresses
himself quite freely, stating that, while uniformity of :\Iasonic law
and usage on certain matters, particularly those which arc sometimes
the cause of interj nrisdictional friction and misunderstanding, is a
consummation most devoutly to be wished for, yet Illinois. in his
opinion, ought not to give up any of its sovereign authority to a
central or supreme governing body. To do thh<, in his opinion, wol1kl
be to abandon the independence which is inherent in even· Grand
Lodge, and, because of this fact, the snggcstion emanating from the
G·rand Lodge of Oregon could not be entertained.
Grand Master Burnap issued dispensations to form ten new Lodges
within the year; six cornerstones were laid under Masonic auspices;
eight new Masonic halls were dedicated. These. taken in ·connection
with other Grand Lodge duties, made the year one of extreme
Masonic activity.
A certain publishing house having addressed circulars to members
of the Fraternity, in which they claim that they are prepared to furnish
books containing the latest standard work of Illinois, etc., he took
occasion to warn the Craft of the Jurisdiction that the purchase, sale,
or use, or possession of any book purporting to contain the ::\Iasonic
ritual is a Masonic offense, subjecting the offrnder to severe discipline.
His comments upon this subject were received with evident approval
by members of the Grand Lodge, and it is doubtful if the publishing
house that is endeavoring to coin a few dollars out of unseemly
methods will succeed to any great extent.
A most interesting report was presented
the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Homes, and that these beneficent institutions are
receiving the cordial support of the Fraternity in Tllinois may be
i udged from the facts that a Grand Lodge appropriation of $21,000
for the support of the Orphans' 1-Tomc at La Crange was made and
$32,000 for the support of the Masunic llome at Sullivan for the aged
Masons and $15,000 for a new lwspital at Sullivan.
The Report on Foreign CorrPspondence is again from the ahle
Past Grand Master Owen Scott. Brother Scott enunciated the prin-

48

REPORT ON CORRll:SPONDENCE.

ciples of regularity in any organi%alio11 claimi11g recogniiion as a
Sovereign Grand Lodge.
The following are the essentials ontlincd hy Brother Scott:
'•], Lt>gitimacy of origin of co11Hitne11t Lodge-; uniting lo form
Grand Lodge.
"2. Sovereign and independent control of Ancient Craft ]\[a;;o11r.1·
in the State, province or other territorial di\·ision constituting the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge.
"3. Belief in God and the Bible 011 the altar as the great light in
l\fosonrv, Inherent in this is the acceptance of the doctrine of the
immortality of the soul."

Brother Scott reviews California, 1913. in a courteous and fraternal
manner, and finds the addrc<s of Grand l\T aster Filmer a production
having a high order of merit.
Praise is accorded the Jurisdiction for its splendid work. particnlarly as disclosed in the conduct of the ]\fa sonic Hom cs and the generous
treatment they receive from the Grand Lodge.
M.'. vV.'. HENHY T. BuRN.W, Alton, Grand Master.
R. ". \v. '. Ts.He CUTTER, Camp Point, Grand Scnetary.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDl<.:NCE.

49

and in rendering opinions and decisions upon qncslions of law and
practice.
One of his dcci:<ions was to the effect that a Lodge acquires
exclusive jurisdiction over a petitioner, whose petition lawfully proceeds
to a ballot. In case of his rej<:ction such exclusive jurisdiction
terminates ;1t the end of one year. In case of his election such exclusive
jurisdiction becomes perpetual. He held that the exclusive jurisdiction
of a Lodge under a foreign Grand Jurisdiction will be recognized as
being equal hut not superior to the exclusive jurisdiction of one of l1is
own Lodges under like circumstanc<'s.
The Jurisprudence Committee agreed with this decision, so far
as it pertained to an elective petitioner, but held that in regard to
rejected material the Grand Lodge has always claimed jurisdiction over
all material living within its confines, which includes rejected applicants
as well as the profane, and requires a Masonic residence of six months
to enable the petitioner to seek admission in the Lodge having jurisdiction over his residence.
In like manner jurisdiction is rekascd as soon as said material
ceases to bt: a resident of the Grand Jnriscliction.
The Report of the Jurisprudence Committee. which is undoubtedly
correct, was sustained by the Grand Lodge.

IN DIANA.

1915.

98th Year, Indianapolis, l\fay 25-26.
Lodges, 557; members, 70.014; gain. 3,822.
Preliminary to the official opening of the Grand Lodge, an open
meeting was hekL at which a large number of visitors were present
and at which a short program was rendered.
An address on the spirit of ]\fasonry was made by Brother Philpott,
at the conclusion of which the Grand Lodge was opened in due form,
Grand :\faster Martin A Morrison presiding,
The Grand ~laster's addn:ss wns a straight-forward business
document. setting forth his official activities witl1in the year, which
consisted in part in the conslit111io11 of the two Lodges which received
chartt"rs at the previous Annual Communication, in the granting of
dispensations to form two new Lodges: in the placing of kn or more
cornerstone, to public buildings, and the <ledica ti on of four or five
'Masonic Halls; in the granting of dispe1isations for other p11rposes,

The qnestion of war relief was up for consideration in this Grand
Lodge, as it has been in practically every Crand Lodge that has met
in annual communication since the war in Europe broke out, and
prior to the convening of the Grand Lodge the Grand Master had
authorized the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer to pay $300
out of the Emergency Fund as a contribution to the Red Cross Society.
The subject of greatest importance which had the consideration
of the Grand Lodge at this Communication was the subject of the
Masonic Home. Indiana is a great Jurisdiction: numerically, possibly
the sixth strongest in the United States. Some four or five years ago
it set about in an earnest way to create a l\fasonie Home. and at this
Annual Communication the reports of the various committees having
the home matter in charge disclosed, among other things, that a fond
aggregating nearly $200,000 harl been assembled since the project was
undertaken two years ::igo, and that the Jurisdiction is now ready to
proccc<l rapidly to the consummation of the great project.
At this Comnmnkaiion the action of the 'fn1stces in securing the
land for a home site was ratified, the cost of the site for the home
being about $45,000, and contracts were also authorized for the con-

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

st rttcl ion of a harmonious group of six initial huildings, the total
investment authorized. including the site, aggregating nearly $200,000,
and it is hoped that hy the time the Grand Lodge assembles in 1916
the home will be complete and ready for the reception of guests.
The utmost harmony prevailed in connection with this great
project, and the Jurisdiction is going forward enthusiastically to carry
to full fruition the magnificent conception, the greatest enterprise
upon which the Grand Lodge has ever entered.
The attitude of the Masons of the Stale, it 1s recorded, toward
the new home, with its incvital1le expense, has been fine, their loyalty
and liberality have been spontaneous and unfailing, and they have consented freely and willingly to the imposition of the necessary assessments and dues for home purposes.
The Grand Secretary, Brother Chas. \V. Prather, in closing his
excellent report, states that the Grand Lodge of Indiana is to be
congratulated upon its splendid financial condition. the great loyal~y
of the brethren to the Masonic Home proposition, and the splendid
spirit that prevails throughout the Craft in the J nrisdiction, as well
as upon the m1mcrical increase, composed of the best men of the
commonwealth, an increase greater than in any other year in the
ninety-eight years of the existence of the Grand Lodge.
In accordance with recommendation by the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, the request of the following· bodies for recognition
was continued to the next or succeeding Communications, viz. : The York
Grand Lodge of Mexico, the ::\" ational Grand Lodge of Egypt, and
the so-called independent regular National Grand Lodge of France.
A special committee to whom was referred the subject contain.ed
in the Grand Master's address touching the Masonic World Relief
Association submitted a report, which was adopted, to the effect that,
while appreciation was felt for the needs and necessities of those
who are suffering from the awful results of the cruel and relent.less
war in Europe, and while they l1cartily applauded every effort to relieve
this suffering, yet it was not deemed advisable at that time to ap.peal
to the Lodges of Indiana for support. The report of the committee
was concurred in.
A Jetter from Chicago from Past Grand l\[asler Daniel l\I~Donald,
who for so many years has been Chairman of the Con111~1ttee. on
Foreign Correspondence, and whose health has been seriously 1mpa1r:d
for the past year or more, stated that he was somewhat improved ill
health, but yet not able to meet with his brethren and, of course, ~10t
able to give attention to the preparation of the Report on Foreign

REPOHT ON CORRESFONDENCE.

51

( orrcspon<lcncc. This report comes lo us this year, the same as last.
from the pen of Past Grand Master Elmer F. Gay, who signs himself
as "Reviewer."
His report is an excellent docmnent; he presents in a clear and
concise manner a resume of the doings of the various Grand Lodges.
Courteous consideration is given to California, 1914.
He makes a long quotation from the address of Grand Master
Murphey and stamps it with the seal of his unqualified approval.
He speaks of the prnspcrous condition of our l\fasonic Homes and
gives California a high place among the American Jurisdictions.

In his introduction, he makes note of certain outstanding features
which he has observed in connection with his recent examination of
Grand Lodge Proceedings. He finds that there is a growing sentiment
in all of the Jurisdictions in favor of more extended efforts along
certain lines; for instance, efforts to promote the study side of
Masonry by lectures given by well-informed brethren and by the
reading of books, Masonic publications, etc.; a tendency to develop the
social side in individual Lodges for the benefit not only of the
members but of their families; a tendency to expand the charitable
side of the organization either by building Masonic Homes or by
increasing benevolent funds. He finds a tendency to relax the rigor
heretofore exercised by certain Jurisdictions against those not physically perfect and refers with approval upon this subject to the action
taken in Indiana in 1911, by an amendment to the Constitution which
provided that the Grand Master may, with the consent of the Committee
on Jurisprudence, allow Lodges to receive and ballot on petitions for
membership of those who can, by the aid of artificial appliances, conform
to the ceremonies of the Order. Keeping all of these things in mind,
he adds that it is not surprising that we hesitate to bar the door of
Masonry to the lofty mind and the great heart, who may be fully
equipped to do the big things for our Fraternity, for the reason alone
that misfortune may have placed upon him some physical defect.
We believe that Brother Gay is absolutely right, because we have
ceased to be operative Masons and are speculative Masons only, and it
should be the inward qualifications and not the outward qualifications
that should be a matter of scrutiny, and if a man's character can pass
muster, very little attention should be paid to mere physical defect.
Brother Gay has embodied in his report an exceedingly valuable
statistical table pertaining to Masonic Homes. The table was prepared
by Brother C. A. Bridwell, President of the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Orphans' Home of Arkansas.

REPORT ON CORRESPOXDEXCE.

An inspection of this table affords most exhausth·e information,
tm1ching every statistical aspect of the Masonic Home proposition,
and to those wishing complete information upon the subject of Masonic
Homes, we refer to this table, printed in our "Introduction."
M:. w:. CHARLES P. BENEDICT, Indianapolis, Grand Master.

R:. \V:. CAJSIN W. PRATHER, Indianapolis, Grand

IOWA.

IlEPOR'l' ON CORHl£SPONDI£NCEJ.

53

yet teaching the great and ever-living verities of life. affords a common
ground oi action for all, and just as this is the J,ettcr understood and
utilized will its usefulness increase and its influence be more farreaching."
The Grand ilfaster recounts with pleasure his
in company
with Grand
Parvin, to the Grand Lodge of Canada, in the
Province of Ontario. on the 15th am! 16th of July, upon the occasion
of the celebration of the Peace
the commemoration of the
one hundred years of peace between England and the l:nited States.

72d Annual, Cedar Rapids. June 8-10.
Lodges, 521; members, 51,785; gain, 2,235.

The Grand Master states that the thousands of ilfasons, with women
and children, singing the national and patriotic songs ;iml waving the
flags of the two countries, was an inspiring sight and well ealeulated
to produce a
of patriotism. c<:menting more deeply and firmly
the fraternal ties between the two countries.

The Annual Communication was presided over by the l\Iost
\Vorshipfnl Charles VV. ·walton, Grand :\faster, and. in accordance with
the usual custom in this Jurisdiction, a program of welcome to the
Grand Lodge, etc., was carried out previous to the formal opening of
the Grand Lodge.

The Grand Master granted dispensations to form two new Lodges.
The Lodge which received its charter at the preceding Annual Comnrnnication was duly constituted; fonr corncrstonc ceremonies were
performed within the year; dedications of three Masonic halls took
place, and otherwise the year was one of marked '\fasonic activity.

An eloquent address of welcome was made by Past Senior Grand
Warden John \V. Barry, and on behalf of Grand Master Walton, and
at his request, a response to the welcome was made by Past Grand
l\Iaster W. F. Cleveland.

Tire Grand Master reports that, while he was not called upon to
render any so-called "decisions," nevertheless he made many interpretations of Masonic law and gave instructions in many cases as to
procedure.

These ceremonies were followed by the formal opening, at which
representatives of 458 of the 521 chartered Lodges were present.
Fourteen Grand Officers were present, and the total attendance upon
the Grand Lodge was 744.

.He rders enthusiastically to the formation within the preceding
year of the X ational Masonic Research Society. ;i society formed for
the purpose of disseminating Masonic information and encouraging
a study of the literature and lore of Masonry. The headquarters of
this society is at Anamosa, Iowa, and the official publication of the
society is known as The Builder. a publication which has alrcad\"
acquired a very large circulation throughout the American Jurisdiction~,

1915.

Immediatdy after the
the Grand Lodge was called up
and the Most \Vorshipfnl Henry T. Burnap, Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of lllinois, was received with Grand Honors ;ind was
welcomed to the East by Grand Master \Valton.
l n the opening

of his address, the Grand l\laster stated that

"Prohahlv never before have men so generallv realized the vital
importance of J\Iasonry as a power for enlightenment and uplifting of
the national and moral life of the world as they do today.
"That Masonry has throughout its long history ever been the
champion of human liberty and intellectt~al progr~ss, and t.hat many
times in ages past it has waged a tellmg conflict with ignorance,
intolerance, superstition and bigotry most well-informe~I men know,
but many fail to see that in this age of wornlcrfol attamment, a~ong
many and varied lines, its opportunity is still great if it is bnt w.1sely
and properly employed. l\Iasonry 1111trammded hy bounds and isms,

The Grand Master refers with justifiable pride to the Grand Lodge
Library, an institution which for many years has had the
care and affection of the Masons of Iowa. and. as "l\fasonic Hornes"
arc the pride of many other Jurisdictions, so "The Library'' is the
pride of this Jurisdiction.
'!'he Grand l\fastcr strongly condemns the surreptitious use of
ciphers and warns the brethren that anything of this kind is in direct
\"iolation of Masonic obligations and will subject the offenders to the
severest kind of Masonic discipline.
There is no particular allegation that this irregular practice has
been followed to any extent by Towa i\lnsons; quite the rcve1·sc, hut

•

54

REPORT ON

CORR~SPONDENCE.

the warning is uttered in a general way by the Grand Master as
touching the evil which crops out now and lhcn in different Jurisdictions
and which in all cases is strongly reprehensible, and, in order to carry
out the suggestions of the Grand ]\faster concerning the use of ciphers,
the following amendment to the Constitution was submitted by the
Committee on J nrisprudence and unanimously adopted:
"SE:c. 297. OFF(NS(s-WnAT ARE:-UsE: oF MNE:Momcs, C1PH(Rs,
ETc., PROHJBI'f(D.-7th. The use in the lodge room of mnemonics,
ciphers, skeleton, or other printed matter of any kind purporting to
embody the unwritten work or ritual is herebv prohibited and declared
a Masonic offense. And further. their use by officers or members of
a Lodge outside the lodge room, in the posting of Masons to obtain
suitable proficiency, and the furnishing of them to such Masons for
such purpose, and also the selling or giving of such matter by one
Mason to another Mason, or the keeping of such matter for such sale
or gift, is hereby made a Masonic offense; provided, however, that
nothing herein shall be construed to apply to the use of the usual
accepted monitors."
Upon the subject of physical defects, the Grand Master observes
a tendency in most of our Jurisdictions to relax the rigid rule demanding physical perfection. \Ve are in accord with him in his views and
take pleasure in quoting him upon the subject, as follows:
"A spirit of liberality is now recognized in some Jurisdictions,
where there is offered a little elasticity, in the general restrictions of
our Order as to the physically disqnalified petitioner. There is a
teaching in the higher level to which Masonry lifts men where physical
defects are forgotten, and only moral character and a general ability
to be useful is measured. The tendency of this age is toward a
broader and more charitable plane.
"I do not recommend the repeal ot our present laws governmg
this subject, but I do firmly believe that this Grand Lodge could, with
advantage and perfect safety, show leniency where the disqualification
is not absolute, and amend these laws so as to partially relax our
present ironclad requirements, by adding thereto, a right vested only
in the Grand Master; giving him the privilege to make a thorough and
personal investigation, with the power to recommend the applicant,
if in his sound judgment, the proposed postulant was generally regarded
by the brethren of his community, as worthy to partake of the privileges
of the Fraternity."
The Grand Secretary, Right Worshipful N cwton R. Parvin, presents his fourteenth Annual Report and also the Librarian Report, in
his capacity of Grand Librarian. Both reports are characterized by
a logical and ordinary arrangement of the subject matters of which
they treat, and afford evidence that the Grand Jurisdiction has in
Brother Parvin a most capable and painstaking official.
A most interesting report of the Committee on Masonic Research
is embodied in the Proceedings, and discloses an enthusiastic interest
by the brethren of this J nrisdiction in the study side of ::VIasonry.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

55

In accordance with a Report of the Committee on Recognition
of Grand Bodies, fraternal recognition was extcnclcd to the Grand Lodge
of Queensland.
After the installation of the newly-elected Grand Master the
ceremony of "Presentation of the Signet Ring" took place; and the
Sc1·enty-second Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge was duly
closed, to meet again in Annual Communication on the 15th day of
June, 1916, in Davenport, the place selected for the next meeting.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by the versatile Louis
Block, Past Grand ,]\faster. The report covers 314 closely-printed pages
of the Proceedings, making a volume in itself. and the most extensive
and voluminous, we believe, of any of the Correspondence Reports
of the current year. At the beginning of the report, he has several
pages of "Foreword," the principal feature of which is a discussion
of the idea of a General Grand Lodge. The thought is suggested hy
the Conferences of Grand l\fastcrs, which ha1·e taken place from time
to time within the past six or sc1·en years in this country.
The outstanding feature of Brother Block's discussion is the
absolnte frankness of his statement that he believes the real purpm;c
of these Conferences is to form a Ccncral Grand Lodge and the avowal
of his belief that a scheme of this kind would he vastly beneficial to
the Masonry of this country.
'vV e occasionally strike a l\Iason of prominence who voices a
belief in the wisdom of a Supreme Grand Lodge, hut very rarely.
For instance, here are Brother Block and Brother l\Iichaels of Indiana
(who is, in fact, we belicn\ the Simon-pure starter, in the present
era, of the defunct idea of former generations of a General Grancl
Lodge in America), and then there is a former Grand Master of
Oregon who had his Grand Lodge issue an invitation to all of the
Grand Lodges of America to assemble for the purpose of forming a
General Grand Lodge, which invitation was unanimously declined, but
aside from these three individuals we cannot remember that we have
encountered anywhere in our Masonic reading the names of any others
who favor this idea.
Brother Block calls attention to the lack of uniformity in the
different J nrisclictions, etc .. and ventures the opinion that a Supreme
Body would straighten out a great many of the "kinks" between the
different Juris<lictions and would pronH>k the case with which Masons
could "travel in foreign lands," visit their brethren lhcrcin, etc.; and
yet we have never heard of any seriou' difficulty encountered by any
of our A.111erica11 :\Iasons in yisiting Lodges in other A.merican Jurisdictions, and an American Grancl Lodge, even if it were formed, coulcl

fi6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDEXCE.

not apply to Masonry outside of America, therefore the "case of
visitation" would be of no practical value, where, perhaps, it might
be needed in foreign lands. Our understanding has always been,
however, to the effect that a Mason thoroughly acquainted with the
ancient Landmarks has no trouble in proving himself in any Jurisdiction
of Masons on earth.

IRELAND.

1914.

The Grand Lodge of Ireland met in Annual Communication
Dublin on St. John's Day, December 28, 1914.

111

Another point urged by Brother Block is that "this is the clay of the
formation of booster clubs, get-together organizations," etc. \V c have
never understood that it was consistent with the spirit of Freemasonry
to advance its propaganda through "booster clubs," "get-together organizations," etc. \Ve have always tmderstood that Freemasonry was
directly opposed to a propaganda of this kind, a11d that its membership
is recruited entirely by those drawn to it through a favorable opinion
formed of the institution, and that anything in the nature of soliciting,
or "boosting," is strictly contrary to the spirit of our ancient Fraternity.

The Grand :\faster, the Earl of D~noughmore, was unable to attend,
and the Right Worshipful Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. B., M. D.,
presided.

\Ve have in prcdous years pointed out in some of our comments
upon this subject that it is absolutely impossible for a Sovereign Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons to surrender any part of its
sovereignty without at 011cc disqualifying itself for recognition as a
Sovereign Grand Lodge, and in our j dgment all of this effort to
modernize Ancient Craft Masonry through "booster" or "get-together"
methods is inconsistent with the true character of Freemasonry and
out of order.

"DF..\R BRO. FLA\'ELLF.,

Brother Block's reviews of the different Jurisdictions are <.'xtremely
comprehensive and intelligent and afford a decided fund of information.
Nine pages are devoted to a review of California, 1914. Extensive
quotations arc made from the address of Grand Master Murphey, from
the Reports of Committees, and everything is treated in a most kindly
and complimentary and fraternal manner.

In Brother Block's "Afterword," he eloquently depicts the awful
destruction and devastation wrought by the seemingly causeless war
in Europe, and he voices the sentiments that the true solution of the
social and economic problems of the ages will be found in the fundamental Masonic precepts of the Fatherhood of God and Brotherhood
of Man.
M.'. W.'. FRANK S. ;\fosF.s, Clinton, Grand Master.
R.'. W.'. NEWTON R. PARVJN", Cedar Rapids, Grand Secretary.

The Deputy Grand Secretary, Brother Flavclle, received a letter
from the Grand Master, stating· the reasons for his absence and touching upon other subjects, as follows:
''C1n:L\voon BF..\coN, :\uTLF.Y, UcKFJELD,
"26th December, 1914.

"I regret very much that. contrary to my hopes, T cannot he in
J reland for Christmas this year, and this prevents my being with you
all on Monday next. Please make my excuses to the Brethren, give
them my warmest greeting and my best wishes for the Season.
"It seems now ;ilmost a mockery to wish ;inyone ;i 'happy'
Christmas this year, with all our anxieties for our friends in Belgium
;ind France; but we c;in, I feel sure, unanimously join in mutual hopes
for better things in 1915. and ferwnt prayer for the honourable and
lasting pe;ice that we all feel certain will crown the efforts of our
gallant friends in the fighting forces, very many of them our Brethren
in Masonry.
"Your Annual Report will be before the Brethren, and we all join
with you in satisfaction at the record of Irish Freemasonry during the
past year. Particularly satisfactory, too, I feel certain, to the Brethren
will be Bro. Holdbrook's news as to our Charities, the generosity of
the Craft has placed them in a position auguring well for our ability
to cope with the additional calls that are hound to be made upon us
111 the near future."
·
The Deputy Grand Master, Charles A. Cameron, C
an ac!clress, from which we quote as follows:

l3., made

"The magnitude of the great war in which our Country is engaged
overshadows every other interest and touches every department of our
National life. The Masonic Order in Ireland has been from even·
standpoint deeply affected by it, many of our prominent members are
engaged in various departments of State connected with the struggle
and very many men are bravely fighting at the front. We have amongst
our members under the Irish Constitution somewhere between four
and five thousand naval and military brethren, and naturally the
various Fumls raised for the alleviation of the distress caused hv the war
appeal particularly to the Craft in Ireland."
·

*

•

*

*

*

*

*

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"i\HU'l'ARY LODGES.

Dispensations to form new Lodges to the number of five were
granted by him.

, ''On. the 11th d~y '.'f June wa~ constitute? by the R. W. Deputy
(;_rand i\faster .the Qms Scparahit Lodge, ?\o. 595, attached to the
Fifth Royal lnsh Lancers. Some three or four hundred Brethren
assembled, on the occasion, :md gave the newly formed Lodge an
cntlmsiastic send off. lt would have been impossible to foresee that
the members .of the. Lodge then meeting in i;eacc and harmony would
be engaged 111 a life and death strnggle m France less than two
months aftenvards. It was one of the first Regiments of Cavalry
to be sent to the front, and before the new Lod"e had time to settle
dc:wn to its regular busin.ess its Warrant and property were deposited
with Grand Lodge, and its members hastily departed to the field of
war. There are altogether nine Reii;irnental Lodii;es under the Irish
Comtitution, three of which dMe back to the eighteenth centurv. 295,
7t1i D_ragoon Guar~ls, established in 1758: 322, the Worcester Regiment,
111 17.:i9, and 570, .:ith Dragoon Guards, 1780, and many of these Regiments arc gallantly doing their duty in the present crisis."
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Porto
Rico.
The Reports of the PrO\·incial Grand Lodges were read and seemed
to be satisfactory.
'l'he Report on i\fasonic Charities was presented. and it is a noteworthy fact that the various funds were apparently well maintained,
their income from voluntary subscriptions being ne;irly np to tbe
normal. all of which speaks extremely well for the Jttrisdiction, in view
of the conditions existing because of the war in Europe.
'l'HE EARL OF DoNNORMOR}'., Grand Master.
R:. \V:. R1GH1' HoNORAnLE LORD PLGNKI!1'T, G. C., M. G., Gram!
Secretary.

KANSAS.

1915.

59th Annual, \Vichita, February 17.
Lodges, 411; memhcrs, 42,412; gain, l ,744.
The Fifty-ninth Annual Communication was preside<! over by
:\fost W orshipfol Charles H. Chandler, Grand Master.
The Grand Master's Address is a straight forward, husincss-likc
presentation of his Masonic activities within the year.
Four Lodges were duly constituted that had received charter:; at
the preceding Annual Communication.

L

59

On seven different occasions within the year the Grand Lodge wa'
convened either hy the Grand :\faster in person or by some brother
especially commissioned for the purpose of placing cornerstones of
public buildings.
Dedications of two Masonic halls under Masonic auspices took
place.
Only one ruling reaching the dignity of a decision was rendered
by him during the year, and this so-called decision might, in our
judgment. have been properly omitted, as the question involved was
not a Masonic question. but simply one of expediency and had relation
to whether or not it was proper to use a :\fasonic hall for the purpose
of holding an Eastern Star entertainment or bazaar at which certain
things were sold for profit. He decided that it was not proper to use
a Masonic hall for such a purpose.
Personally, we arc tmahlc to appreciate tlx objection, and, in
any event, the matter, it would seem to 11s, is pmely one of policy.
In common with all other Masonic Jurisdictions, appeals have been
made for contributions to the so-called \Var Relief Fund. The Grand
Master, in his report, states that his Jurisdiction had corresponded with
the Masonic Grand Bodies in the war zone of Europe, who had, all
of them, kindly and courteously reported that the offers of relief were
th~nkfully received and fully appreciated, but not at this time needed,
coupled with the intimation that they would probably themselves be able
to handle all Masonic charity without outside assistance.
From the Report of the Committee to whom the Grand Master's
Address was referred we quote the following paragraph, which. in
our judgment, s11ccinctly covers the situation:
"It is desired. especially, to commend the rational treatment
reported under the head of '\Var Relief.' \Vhile Ma sons should cv<:r
stand ready to respond to the needs of the destitute, they should also
avoid hysteria and imposition.''
From the Report of the Superintendent of the Masonic Home,
it appears that the average membership in the Home in the preceding
year was eighty-eight and the per capita cost of administration $186.51
for the year.
A very interesting oration was delivered on the second day of the
Communication by Brother Alfred \V. Benson, member of Otto Lodge
No. 18. The address was, on motion, ordered printed in the Pro-

60

REPORT ON CORRl!JSPONDENCE.

REPOR;r ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ccc<lings, and the usual number of extra copies distributed among tlw
Lo<lges. The su1Jject of the oration was a "Vision of Life and
Brotherhood." From this oration, we q11ote as follows:

KENTUCKY.

"As with c1t1es, so with all great undertakings. The h<:antifol
cathedrals whose massi1·c walls have crmnhled into fragments before
mighty artillery in the most cruel and greatest war of historv, existed
first in the brain of enthusiastic architects, else they ha<l never existed
at all. They were at first only images upon the mind. Imagination is
not a mere sentiment. It is necessary to any real progress. Without
il, men would still be burrowing in caves or living in treetops. But
a cathedral. or a palace. is not the greatest building. A fairer and
more enduring one may he erected by every man and Mason. Great
as arc the buildings and institutions of ·washing'ton or of other capitals
of the world, beautiful as arc the temples of religion, of art, of Iearnin[~
and industry. there are structures of greater worth-buildings that if we
work upon them as craftsmen and as master b11ilders in perfect fidelity,
according to perfect plans, will stand firm against the shock of war
and earthqllakc and tempest, outlasting the pyr;unids. The impregnahle
walls of character will stand four square against cvcrv wind that
hlows, above the wreckage of all material things. As operative :\Iasons
work npon foundation. am! wall, and column, placing. fitting. ccnn·nting
all the parts into a harmonious unit of strength and beaut1·. so may
speculative :\fasom work upon the more enduring edifice of character.''

!14th Annual, Louisville. October .20-22.
Lodges, 591 ; members. 42, 139; net gain, 1,680.

*

*

*

*
*
*
".How shall a man and Mason serve his country? \Veil. hv
making his neighborhood. city, State, better to Jiye in; - by promoting
efficiency, economy and integrity in public affairs. and practicing all
these virtues in private life, too. right at home-:rnd away from home
if called away-but at home first; by pulling ahead and not hack; by
singing praises instead of wailing lamentations; by remembering, too,
that being a psalm is better even than singing one; and to be, as
LNCLE EBEN exhorts, 'as patient at home as when fishing.'"
In accordance with Report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of
the Philippine Islands, and, by virtue of the same report, recognition
was for the time being, at least. denied to the Grand Lodge of
The Report on Correspondence is, as usual, from the scholarly
and versatile Past Grand Master J\fatthew P.L Miller. His review of
California, 1913, is most cordial and frienrlly, with liberal quotations
from the Address of Grand Master Filmer, Reports of Committees, etc.
M.'. \V.'. \VM. L. BunmcK, Lawrence, Grand .\faster.
R.'. \V.' ALBERT K \V11soN, Topeka, Grand Secretary.

61

1914.

All of the Grand Officers, twenty-two Past Grand l\fosters and
representatives of 4B3 of the 591 chartered Lodges were present.
A graceful and courteous custom prevails in this J urisdictiou of
receiving at the Annual Communications with the Grand Honors the
oldest Past Grand Master and placing him in
seat of honor on the
left of the Grand Master. This honor fell at this time to Past Grand
:\laster John H. Leathers, who filled the Grand Master's chair in 1875.

•

The Gram! :\laster, l\Iost \Vorshipful Orie S. Ware, the youngest
Grand .:\faster who has ever prc;;idc(l in the Jnrisdiction, having hcen.
horn in 1882, reports a year of acti1·ity in which, among other things,
twelve Lodges were chartered and disp('!lsations granted for the forma.
tion of eight new Lodges.
Kumcrous dispensation:; were grant<:d for various purposes, am!
the official fonctions of the Grand l\lastcr were actively exercised in
various directions.
The ·Grand Master stated that he had been called upon to deci~lc
but one question rising to the dignity of a decision, but he submits
six so-called "rulings," which he terms "opinions,'' and does not
indicate how they differ essentially from so-called decisions. Among
the "opinions" given, the Grand Master held that a Lodge cannot. receive
a petition for initiation from a man who is one-si:xth or one-sixteenth
negro.
This is probably in accordance with the Constitution of Kentucky
and the decision. in that Jurisdiction at least, is sound.
Opinion No. 4 was to the effect that an expelled member may be
restored by bis Lodge, regardless of his place of residence. \V C: presume
this implies that he has previously been restored . to the rights. and
privileges of l\.Iasonry by the Grand L~dge. .cert~n'.ly a Subordmate
Lodge could not of itself restore to the nghts and pnv!lcges nf :\fasonry
an expelled member.
One of the outstanding features of Kentucky l\.lasonry is its
Masonic Homes, and among Masonic Homes it is doubtful if ther: are
anv hetter homes than those in Kentucky, or homes more econom1cally
and carefully conduct\'(1, and the Masons of Kentucky are justly proud
of these institutions.

62

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Jn referring to the :\fasonic Homes, the Grand Master gives
expression to the pleasnre afforded to the :\fa sons of the Jurisdiction
from the contemplation of these charities. Ile calls attention to the
magnificent work which they arc doing, to the splendid citizenship
which they are creating for the orphans left in their charge, and he
voices the hope that continued vigor and zealons endeavor on the
part of the :Masons of Kentucky will insure to the generations which
are to follow a continuance of the blessings that have been vouchsafed
to the present generation.

Application was made to the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, the same
as to other Grand Lodges, for contributions to relieve the distress
incident to the war now raging on the continent of Europe. ' The
Grand Master expressed the opinion, in which we concur, that, as
patriotic people, it is incumbent upon us to avoid any zealous efforts that
may lead our government into unncutral conduct and that by bestowing
undue favors in certain dir<.>ctions offense might be given in other
directions, and it is no lack of humanity to say that, while the Masons
of this country would undoubtedly he glad to as'dst in laudable measures
of relief, yet the misery incident to war upon such a gigantic scale as
is now raging is so overwhelming and widespr<.>ad that the puny efforts
that we might put forth to relieve Masonic distress would be as a
grain of sand upon the seashore toward ameliorating the appalling conditions, and, in our judgment. abont the only logical method of J\fasonry
contributing to the relief of the distressful conditions in Europe is
contributions to such organizations as the Red Cross.
The Grand Master, we are surprised to say, recommended that
the Grand Lodge adopt a cipher ritual, the alleged purpose of which
was to render the "work'' uniform. Not only did the Grand }faster
recommend the adoption of a cipher, but the CQmmittec to which it
was referred approved the Grand Master's recommendation, but both
the Grand Master and the committee \Vere happily turned down hy the
Grand Lodge.
Personally, W<.> have never heen able to understand how anv cipher
can be adopted which docs not infringe the E. A. obligation. The secrets of Masonry, we are early taught, are confided to the
repository of faithful breasts and are communicated from "mouth to
ear," and are in this way passed from generation to generation, and, in
our opinion, it is in no wise essential to the true spirit of Freemasonry
that there should be absolute uniformity of language and that the
letter-perfect recital is necessary in order that the trne realization of
the hidden and deeper meanings of J\fasonry may be realized.

One of the grand things about Masonry is that, while each J urisdiction is within itself sm·ercign and ~uprcme, and while different J nrisdictions will differ as to the precise language oi the unwritten work,
yet the landmarks and principles arc c1·crywhcrc the same, with the
result that a Mason who is truly a :Mason has no diffirnlty in proving
himself as such in Jurisdictions other than the one to which he belongs,
notwithstanding, as stated, there arc wide variations in the language
of the unwritten work.
Ciphers or keys, while they have at different times been authorized
in a few Jurisdictions. have, we believe, almost invariably in the end
been condemned by those Jurisdictions and destroyed.

..

Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands.
Most Worshipful Brother William W. Clarke is the author of
another excellent Report on the Proceedings of Grand Lodges.
California, 1913, receives generous recognition, with liberal quotations from Grand Master filmer's Address and Brother Hervey's
Oration.
In his "Conclusion," Brother Clarke averts to the centralizing
tendencies of the present time, and indicates in clear and forceful
language his observation to the effect that Grand Lodges, which arc
in fact the creations of Subordinate Lodges, have usurped powers to
such an extent that initiative has practically been withdrawn from
Subordinate Lodges, which are controlled almost as automatons by
the Central Body, and he observes that this spirit of centralization is
still in progress and that the latest manifestations of it are insidious
efforts which seem to be working in certain directions toward the
creation of a General Grand Lodge, and he wonders if these Annual
Grand Masters' Conferences may not indeed be a part of propaganda
to bring Masonic bodies under the control of one supreme authority.

He calls attention to the fact that only a few years ago a Grand
Master of Indiana openly advocated, and we may say he is still openly
advocating, a Central Masonic Authority, and mentions that the Grand
Master of Oregon plainly asked other Jurisdictions to unite with it in
the organization of a Central Grand Lodge.
Brother Clarke's observations along these lines are certainly worthy
of careful perusal.
At the Annual Election, 1\fost Worshipful George B. Winston oi
Carrolltown was elected Grand Master, and Right \Vorshipful George
D. Jack~on of Louisville re-elected Grand Secretary.

RbJPORT ON CORRJ:l]SPONDFJNCE.

ltEPORT ON CORRESPON'DEI\CR

LOUISIANA.

The lirst event ot nnportancc recorded in the Proceedings is the
opening of a Deputy Crand Lodge February 21, 1914, at Ancon, in
the Canal Zone, for the purpose of constituting Can.al Zone Lodge at
that place. The meeting was considered an event of unusual importance
at Ancon and was largely attended, practically ;JI of the Masons in
that vicinity heing present to witness and take part in the ceremony.

1915.

104th Annual, New Orle;u1s, February 1, 2, 3.
Lodges, 225; members, 17.999; gain, 1,114.
The Annual Communication was presided over by Most \Vorshipfol
James H. Caldwell, Grand ]\faster.

In opening his Annual Address, the Grand ::Vfaster says:
"While the gentle dove of peace has hovered over 11s, our land
and country during the year just p;,,;t, our hearts g·o out in svmpathv
to our brothers and fellowmen amo:1" the nations of Europe, "who are
engaged in the bloodiest conflict
world has ever witnessed, the
fearful consequences of which are
by us even at this areat distance
in the anxiety and depression cf business. the low prices of our
pro.ducts, in the advance cost of the necessities of life and the anomaly
which forces o~ir own government to levy a war tax in times of peace;
but as our mmds dwell upon these unfortunate conditions let them
serve as a check to man's pride and presumption. that success may
not result in arrogance and our contentment be lost in selfishness."
The Grand l\fastcr recounts several invitations received bv him
to attend Masonic functions in other Jurisdictions. He mcntion:s particularly the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Canada,
held on July 15th, an incident of which was the celebration of the
Grand Peace ] ubilce to commemorate the hundred years of peace
between Great Britain and the United States. He was not able to
attend this function, nor apparently was he able to accept any of
the other invitations to atteml Masonic affairs outside of his own
] urisdiction.

'll

He incorporates in his Address a Masonic oration delivered by
him in the Extraordinary Communication of the Grand Lodge called
on January 10th of the current year for the purpose of paying trihute
to the memory of Brother Andrew Jackson, Past Grand Master of
'l'ennessee and hero of the battle of New Orleans.
The following paragraphs arc excerpted from this oration :
"The question is often asked as to where the strength and vitality
of Freemasonry came from. It is perhaps a logical and lcgitirnatt•
question. For, any organization that counts its existence hv centuries
must have some inherent strength for its support and possess some
vital powers for its prescn·ation. \;\/hat is the strength, what are the
Yitai powers of that ancient institution of Freemasonry, whose traditions
have survived the ravages of time and the wounds inflicted npon it by
treachery, torture and tyranny? \Vhat is the secret of its longevity;
whence comes its cvcr~incrcasing influence and vitality?
"Yet the answer should he clear and comprehensive. ~Iasonry
has survived. and today lh-es and thri\ es because of the morality it

A Report of the l\ieeting. by Brother Herhert E. Fletcher, who
acted as Deputy of the Grand ]\faster, was rendered.
In his Report he states that for two successive years it had been
his pleasme to take part, as Deputy Grand Master, in the constitution
of Grand Lodges in the Canal Zone; Sojourner's Lodge, constituted the
year before at Christbol, and now Canal Zone Lodge at Ancon.
Canal Zone Lodge starts ont with a substantial roll of nineteen
charter members.
At the March Quarterly, reports and balance" sheets were rendered
of the various Trust Funds, disclosing the fact that the Juriscliction
is linancially among the strongest in our country.
A report is rendered of the Masonic Home; the cost of administration is in process of reduction, and the per capital tax of maintaining
the residence is ·about half of the cost of the previous year.
At the June Quarterly Communication, descriptive talks were given
hv the Grand Master of the portraits of Past Grand Masters and other
distinguished Masons of ~fassachusetts which adorn the walls of the
Masonic Temple at Boston.
One of the notable features of the September quarter was an
address bv the Grand Master on the "Establishment and Early Days
of ~Iason;y in America." He advances some very convincing evidence
that regular, and what may be called recognized, Masonry in America
first existed in Massachusetts.
Our Pennsylvania friends take issue with this statement and
stoutly maintain that Marnnry in this country first had a footing in
that commonwealth.
Possibly the difference of op1mon might be reconciled upon the
basis that Masonry in both Massachusetts and Pennsylvania existecl
before the formation of the English Grand Lodge in 1717 and possibly
has just as valid a right to be considered "regular" as did the
individual Lodges in England before they came together and formed
a Grand Lodge.

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRBJSPOXDEXC.K

In any event, the address of Grand :\faster Johnson on the "Early
Days of Masonry" is lilied with information of
value, which,
of course« cannot he quoted here, hut we would advise our readers
who may have an interest in tl1c early history of Masonry in America
to procure a copy of tbc 1\iassach1p;etts Procrcdings of 1914 and carefully pernse Grand :\faster Johmon's scholarly address.
At the Annual Communication December 9 a very large representation of the Subordinate Lo<lges was present.
The Grand :\faster presented a comprehensive statement of his
official acts, with a number of well-considered rccommernlations, which
were adopted by the Grand Lodge.
The Lodges in l\fassachusetts (in which respect they differ from
e\·ery other Jurisdiction in the United States) are simply named. never
numbered. For instauce, there are two St. John's Lodges in Massaclmsctts; the first (which is probably the Jlrst organiz('d Lodge of
:\Iasons in America) is St. John's Lodge (Boston); and then there is
St. John's Lodge, ?\ cwlmryport, hut none of the Lt;dgcs has numbers.
The great event of the year in l'viassaclrnsetts' :Masonry is the Feast
of St. John, the Evangelist, which takes place on St. John the Evangelist's Day, in the evening, after the installation of the officers of the
Grand Lodge for the
year. The Feast of St. John the
this year was particularly notable. At these Feasts, talent
of a high order is always present, and it is a rare and distinguishetl
privilege to be asked to address the J\fasons of :\fassachusetts upon
these occasions.
Aside from Past Grand :\faster Johnson, who is himself an orator,
and a man of marked ability, the principal speakers were the honored
guests, Gr:md l\fastcr vVm. D. :.\IcPherson of thr Grand Lodge of
Canada. and Brother \Villiam Howard Taft, ex-President of the
United States.
Perhaps the central theme of Grand Master McPherson's address
was the idea of loyalty, and patriotism. and Ion for, and devotion to
rnuntry and to liherty. His effort was inspiring and was listened to with
rapt attention by all present.
Another address possessing a high order of merit was delivered
hy the Right Worshipful Frederick vV. Hamilton, Deputy Grand Master,
who has since sncceeded to the position of Recording Gra11d Secretary,
made vacant by the death, within the year. of former Grand Secretary
Right Worshipful Thomas W. Davis.

•

.

75

the printed volume
Proceedings is a series of lectures on
' "Thel Philosophy
of Masonry," by Worshipful Brother Roscoe Pond,
n

of

LL.D. The learning of vVilliam Preson. of K. C. F. Krause, of Dr.
George Oliver, and of Albert Pike as relating to :\fasonry is set forth
in a clear and interesting manner; and the perusal of these lectures
hy any one interested in the Philosophy of Freemasonry will prove
of vast interest and profit.
The volume of the Massaclrnsetts Proceedings of 1914 is one of
the most valuable that has come under our observation.
There is in this Turisdiction no Committee on Foreign Correspondence, nor is there- any Jurisprudence Committee.
:YitLVlN M. JoHNSoN. Boston, (;rand Master.
FRF.Dl\R!CK vV. H.u11LTON, Boston. Grand Secretary.

MICHIGAN.

1915.

71st Annual. Bay City, May 25-26.
Lodges, 431 ; members, 78,857; gain, 3.893.

The
Communication was prcsiclecl ewer hy the :\[ost
vVorshipfu\ William :\L Perrett, Grand :\faster.
A formal welcome to the Grand Lodge was extended on behalf
of the Lodges of Bay City by Brother Robert L. King; also a welcome
on behalf d the city of Bay City by the :\fayor Hon. F. P. S. Kelton,
with suitabk response by the Grand :\[aster.
One of the ieatmes which has obtained in this Jurisdiction for
a "reat rnanv vears has been the presence and introduction of Past
Gr:nd lilaste.r \villiam T. Mitchell of Michigan, the oldest Past Grand
Master of Michigan and, so far as we know, of the world. This year,
in obedience to the advice of his medical adviser, who deemed the
long journey from his home to the place of meeting of the Grand
Lodge too onerous to timlcrtakc. he denied hi.mse.lf tb~ ~leasure of
at lending the ;\ nnual Communication and sent 111 hca ot lus personal
presence a kttcr, which the Cram\ l\fastcr now announced he had
reccin•d from the \'l'JlLTabk memhn. expressing his regret at not being
able to he prest.:nl at the ,\mmal Comnnmication, particularly as it
was the Fiftieth ;\nni\'Crsary of tlw date upon which he presided as
Grand Master. Past Grand Master :\litchcll is now 98 years of age,
still
of vigorous mental faculties.

7G

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand :\faster, in his Address. emphasizes the value oi littk
things, being apparently a believer in the spiritual injunction "Desphe
not the day of small things.'' Upon this theme we quote him as
follows:
"\Ve spend our time>, many of us, at least, in looking for great
things to do, while we neglect the little duties with which we. meet in
the daily round. We seek to be great in the sight of men rather than
in the sight of God. and, therefore. we neglect the trifles, which, did
we but know it, make the sum of hnman things, and are God's voice
uttering a divine command. Onerous am! multitudinous. because of
my high regard for little things, ha\·e been the duties which have come
to me from these three so11rces of law, custom, and affection, and,
therefore, I think I may truly say that these duties are about to be
lifted, not only from my shoulders, hut from my heart. This work
has engaged my emotional
well as my intellectual nature. In my
past year. I have carried you all, and
heart, dear brethren. during
while, on the basis of close friendship and business associations, some
there arc who arc dearer to me than others, yet without suspicion of
canting hypocrisy. T am frank to confess that not one of the nearly
80.000 lfasons of this Jurisdiction has slipped from my affectionate
and brotherly grip. J have carried you all in my heart; and day by day.
I have hoped and prayed that in your Lodge, family and commercial
life, you would so interpret the principles of l\fasonry that the profane
might be deeply impressed with the moral beauty and strength of our
ancient and onr honorable institution. X ot onlv this. clear brethren,
in all the experiences through which you have - passed, in your joys
and sorrows, your victories and defeats, your successes and failures,
your gains and losses, I ha\·e rejoiced and sympathized with you."
The Grand l\faster was grieved to note the death within the year
of the greatly beloved Grand Treasurer, \Villia111 Wente. Brother
\Ventc, while not a Past Grand ]\faster, was as highly esteemed as
would have been possihle had he occupied every position within the
gift of the Grand Lodge. and his death was sincerely mourned
throughout the entire Jurisdiction, and is most feelingly touched upon
by the Grand Master.

11

Duriug the administration of Grand Master Perret.t fo~1r~een
l\Iasonic Temples were dedicated; seven cornerstones of public bm~dmgs
were placed; four ne\v lodges were instituted, consecrated, dechcat~d
and officers installed, making the year one of pronounced ?vfasomc
activity.
The Grand Master apparently is not in favor of excessiv~l): la:ge
Masonic Lodges, believing that greater opportunities for par:1c1pat1on
in the work of the Lodge are affordl'd where the memberslup of the
Lodge is not too large. He does not state th.at .th.ese rem~r~s .may
be particularly appropriate to the Gr~ml Junsd1ct10n of. M1ch1gan,
which has seve~al of the largest ?vfasomc Lodges 111 the Umted Stat:s,
or we believe, so far as that is concerned, in the world. In the. city
of Detroit alone there are six Lodges. each one with a membership _m
excess of one thousand, with Palestine Lodge at the head of the hst
with 2 184 members. followed hy Zion Lodge, with 1,635, and by Ashier
Lodge'. with J,555. These, we believe, are the thr:e largest Lod ges
7
in America, followed by Gencs,ee Falls Lodge ot Rochester, >-_ew
York, with 1,512 members, and Yonnondio Lodge, of the same city,
with 1,462 members.
The contribution of :V1ichigan to the war relief fund, snbscribed
in response to the cirrnlar letter sent out from the Ohio headquarters.
. . d e d $7,000r the largest
contribution 1 so far as we have observed.
excee
c "'
•
from any Jurisdiction. The total contributions of all bodies were
apparently $32,062.96.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, in ~ccor.dance with the
law of the Jurisdiction, by the Grand Secretary, this bemg the twelfth
report from Most vVorshipfol Lou B. vVinsor, the very capable Grand
Secretary of the Jurisdiction.

No decisions upon questions of l\Iaso1-,ic law appear to have been
rendered by the Grand Master within his year.

Inasmuch as the Chairman of this Committ.ee. is not pcrn~itted t:o
criticise or comment upon what other Jurisdictions are domg, his
report is of necessity made up large~y of excerpts from Addresses of
Grand Masters and Reports of Committees.

He refers to the :Masonic Home as in a splendid condition, a
home where about one hundred of the aged brethren, their wives and
widows are sheltl'red in a peaceful haven, as the evening shadows of
life gather near. He states that the Home is a source of pride to
the Jurisdiction, and its management as being in exceedingly capahlc
hands.

- ·a , 1914 • is· verv
oenerously considered, intelligent selection
C,d. J'f
! 01111,
, "'
h
for quotation being made from the Address of Grand Master Murp ey,
from the Oration of \Vorshipful Brother \Vaste, and Reports of
Committees.

Brother Perrett was able to devote much time to visitations to
Suhordinatcs, and favored in this W<ty a greater number of constituent
Lodges than any of his predecessors in recent years.

•

(',EoRGE L. I,i:si.;:, Bay City, M.'. w:. Crancl :\Iaster.
R. ', \V.'. Lou B. \VINSOR, RC'cd City. C1-;md Secretary.

78

Rl:<~PORT

ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

79

MINNESOTA.

1915.

62d .\rnrnal, St. Pan!. January 20-21.
Lodges, 25i; memhers, 30.411 ; gain, 1.602.
The l\fost ·worshipful Robert E. Denfelt, Grand Master, p1·csiclcd.
The Grand Master reported a year of action, consisting in part
of the dedication hy the Grand Lodge of two Masonic halls; thL'
constitution of two Lodges which received charters at the precl'ding
Annual Communication; the placing. under -:\fasonic auspices. of a
numhC'r of cornerstones of public bnildings: the is:rnancc of dispen«ation for five new Lodges; the performance of visitations to Snbordinatt•
Lodges, etc.
The Grand Master refers to the appeal made by the -:\fasonic \\'ar
Relief Association for contributions for war relid. althongh no particu
Jar action was taken in the matter, the subject being, in a sense. too
large and too complicated with the conditions of neutrality, etc .. to
take up. ·
The Grand Master refers particularly to the Masonic Home
project; he calls attention to the time which seems to he rapidly
approaching when the Grand Lodge. in accordance with its commitment
to undertake the project when $100.000 had been accumulated, must
take action in the matter, for from the Report of the Minnesota
Masonic Home we learn that $56.000 has already hcen accumulated.
and the anticipation is entertained that within a period of not less
than two years the requisite amount preliminary to the actual commencement of work on the l10me will be pledged.

Jn closing his Addrc,s. the Grand Master. under the caption of
"Masonry," sets forth in beautiful language some of the foundation
principles and inherent qualities of our great Fraternity, and from the
closing paragraphs of his Address we quote as follows:

"Lodges a re often tempted to incrca~c the men.1bcrship at the
ex ense of the quality of such membership. There. lS no power Ill
p ·
h rs It has cvl'r heen true that the m<hv1dual has shaped
1· t
mere num · e · ·
'· ·
· csistible
a movement, has espoused a cause. has 1rnm!11erec m o an .1rr. ·
· t tJ 1011 g11 t · ·111cl
thcrefon·
the
ira111 t<l our Institution can
f orce a grca
'
·
·'
· ·
k f
th.
onlv come from having in it those wh~ arc wil!mg to wor . or _e
betterment of humanity and the suppre~s1011 of,selhsh:ies>. Self-mtcre,t
and mercenary motives have no place Ill our I· ratcrmty.

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Mv own experience during the pa~t year has decpi:ne~ .mr
·impress10n
'
of tlie c·li"r·icter
of l\fa •sonrv• m this
Grand• Junsdict10n.
. n '
•
•t Everv'.. communitv where a l\la::onic Lodge exists .con tams among : s
. , i 15· the very best manhood Of that C0ll1111l111lty ai;cl .should '.Hill
~~ct~;; that manhood high; should not only work w1tl11.n the. t1k<l
rccessc~ of the Lodge but shank! show the reason for its f'.11th m
. t' : · · , 0 rk for humanity in general. Tt stands for progress m that
,1c
iv e \\ for the best in · human stnvmg.
· ·
I t ts
· a lJO\\er
· · f11l,· f·1ctor
it stands
•
. for
· ·
· 'I teousnc-s and it ma v be the rneam of cle,tro) mg. w rang
c1v1lc
.r!gl' l h r. e'r1•t ex'1sts. . ·'
'' ..11 •are not equallv
·1111 ev1 w e ev
.. endowed;
.
. all . cannot
··1, I
'1 ti 1C WO i·J·' .· 'all c"tllJOt
le·Hl
some must
follow:
vet
( 0
"
• • •
1'
- I ca.ch 1is prn
f t cge1
1 1t
to take the kssons. most. helpful for lrn:1., . hose w 10. '~e c. pre e~cI~~s
should be most pamstakmg m the acqu1s1t10n of the nt~1,:I: dnd, L ':.
shoul<I see that only those arc.. elevated to respons1lnhty ''ho cc1n
cxemplify most fully the les~ons.
);luch of the time of one day of this Annual Commlm'.cat'.on was
devoted to the consideration and adoption of a new Const1t11t10n and
General Regulations.
The Annual Oration was delivered by \Von;hipful , ·warren E.
Green Grand Orator. The effort was appreciated :iy the (,rand Lodge
and a' copy of the Oration is printed in the Proccedmgs.
Grand
r.Jaster
The R epor t on Fore!.,,u· 11 Corre~pond<:nce . is hy Past
.
.
. .

·
To<ld It cr111 sists of a somewhat bnef, bnt 111tclhgent. rev1e\\
Trvmg
·
· · ·
··
. . · .
·
., 1913

of the Proceedings of the usual Grand Junsd1ct10m.
is fraternally reYiewed.

Cahforn1,1,

·

;vr:. \V.". HARRY :\f. BuRNTLUI, Jackson. Grand l\Iaster.
l<.'. \V.'. JOHN F1sHEL, St. Paul. Grand Secretary.

"Care then must be exercised in the quality of the membership.
"Only those should be admitted who are capable of appreciating
its pnrpose, comprehending its lessons, and exemplifying its teachings.
It has little to fear from without. J ts greatest enc-mies are those of
its own household. There arc, therefore. certain facts in the huilding
up of the institution that must en:r he hefore its rnemhen'. Firt<t, a
thorough and careful examination of all who make applicatiou. Personal feeling should never enter into the clisrnssion of the reports
of investigating committees. The worthiness. repPtation, moral and
mental fiber of the petitioner should ;1lways be hcvond question: only
those of deep sympathy, broad appreciation and high motives can
bring strength and make the Institution felt in the community.

.

MISSISSIPPI.

1915.
9ith Annnal, Vicksburg, February 16.
Lodges. 3i3; members, 20.0i3; gain, 631.
After the Grand Lodge assembled for the op~ni~1g ceremonies, a
public reception was tendered the Grand Body cons1strng of a program

RrJPORT ON CORRFJSPO.NDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

of music aud oratory, after which the Grand Lodge was opened in
Ample Form, Grand :'lfaoter Most \Vorshipful Robert A. Carson
presiding.
A distinguished visitor, in the person of Most Worshipful Alfred
\V. Cheesman, Grand :!\faster of Louisiana, was received, after which
the Grand Master delivered his Annual Address.

vVe quote from the opening of his Address as follows:
''\Ve are assembled in this, the most historic city of our grand old
State, and have been welcomed by brethren whose untiring efforts in
the cause of Masonry call for our cordial admiration. How pleasant it
is to again meet and exchange friendly greetings after the year's labor
is done, and how reassuring and delightful to know that these reunions
are not for an hour or a day, but will occur again and again as the
years cycle by, while we, like pilgrims, plod along the rugged road of
life. Like the strings of an instrument touched by a skillful hand, each
string producing its own peculiar tone, yet all blending in one sweet
melodious harmony, so as ,\fasons, as diverse in character and feelings
as in language and complexions, yet all united in one common object, to
benefit mankind, all pressing forward to one common goal-Eternity.
"In this purpose we have been permitted to continue on our peaceful
way while many of our sister Jurisdictions are in the throes of war, torn
asunder by the savage force of armed invasion, and without any discussion of the causes, impulses or ambitions involving in a death
struggle most of the greatest countries of the earth-those with whom
we enjoy the closest bonds of fraternal intercourse, let us at least do
our utmost to relieve the suffering of those afflicted and pray for the
ultimate attainment of universal peace."

Fortunately, the Grand Master was enabled to travel extensively
throughout the State and pay fraternal and official visits to many of
the Subordinate Lodges of the Jurisdiction.
Seven Lodges which had received charters at the preceding Annual
Communication were duly constituted; four dispensations were issued
to form new Lodges; numerous Emergent Communications were held
for the purpose of placing cornerstones of public buildings.
Of the numerous rulings made by him within the year, only two
were considered of sufficient importance to warrant a so-called "decision." One of the questions was whether a Lodge in this Jurisdiction
could entertain an application for membership based on a <limit issued
by a Lodge within the Jurisdiction of New Jersey. The Grand Master
decided the question in the affirmative, and the only thing about the
case that renders it significant is the fact that Mississippi and New
Jersey are not in fraternal relations with each other, Mississippi having
suspended relations because in the Jurisdiction of New Jersey there is
a regular chartered Lodge of negro Masons.

----------------

Gii

fosters and the manhood it expounds and exemplifies. Maso!1ry e_xtends
far beyond the borders and barriers of s_ect, ~~eed and i~at1?nahty. It
combines all creeds; it unites all. nattonalit!e~, and 1t ignores all
sectarianism; it proclaims an un fc1gnc<l be het ll1 the F;i therhood of
God and the Brotherhood of :!\Ian.

*

*

*

*

*

*

'"fhe Order of Freemasons i, based on tradition .. ~ow, tradition
to be accepted and preserved must fulfill three_ cond1t10_ns: It must
be rational; it must be in accord with rc~orded tact, and it mus~ _serv~
a present purpose. J\f asonry meets admirably these three conditions.·
The Grand Master, in his Address, sets forth certain reasons why,
in his opinion, a single black hall should not be permitted to bar the
way into membership in a :t-.fasonic Lodge.
He says:

"In a Lodge clothed with the power and prer~g:itive of refusing
to entertain a petition, with all the safeguarqs requ1rm_g recommendations, a thorough investigation by a com.mitte~ (~f discreet Masons.
with still other wise and necessary prccaut1011s, 1s it not reasonable to
suppose that if the applicant was Lmworthy, t_hat ther.e would be mor;
than one memher of the Lodge and comnmmty to discover that fact.
This being the case, why depend upon the smgle black ball to protect
the institution and enable one memher to block. the wheels of _prog:res"
in his Lodge, by a pm1ctual attendance and persistent and tmwise v.iews
of the single black ball t''
From the Report of the Grand Secretary, we learn that dispensations were issued to form four new Lodges, and that the year was an
active one Masonically may be deduced from the fact of the very large
net gain in membership.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands, and recognition was refused to the new Grand
Lodge of France.
From the Report of the Jurisprudence Committee, upon one of
the rulings of the Grand Master, which was disapproved, we quote the
following:
"Third. \V ,> are of opinion that there is, at least by imQlication, an
error in ruling No. 6, wherein the Grand n~aste,r hold~ pr'.lcLic:all}'. that a
dhnitted Master Mason who has not apphe_d to~ affihat1~11. until ~ft~r
the expiration of more than twelve months ts entitled ti? v1s1t and sit. 111
the Lodge of which he had been a member, and to wluch he re:_tpphes.
It is the law of this Jurisdiction. as a general rule, that t~e ng_h~ to
visit is not absolute and that a Lodge may, or may not, admit a vi.s1tor,
or a non-member. i~ its own discretion, or to suit its own convemence.
\Vhen the brother in question allowed more than twelve 1~1on~hs to
pass before applying for affi_liation, he became, at .the expiration_ of
the twelve months, an unaffiliated }faster Mason, with no other n?"ht
than that of applying for affi!i;ttion. pe.n~ing _whi~h. he could not claun.
as a matter of right, the privilege of sittmg m his, or any other Lodge,
except by its courtesy and consent."

REPORT ON CORR!DSPONDENCR
of music and oratory, after which the Grand Lodge was opened in
Ample Form, Grand :VIaster :l.fost \Vorshipfol Robert A. Carson
presiding.
A distinguished visitor, in the person of Most Worshipiul Alfred
\V. Cheesman, Grand .:\faster of Louisiana, was received, after which
the Grand Master delivered his Annual Address.
\Ve quote from the opening of his Address as follows :
"\Ve arc assembled in this, the most historic city of our grand old
State, and have been welcomed by brethren whose untiring efforts in
the cause of Masonry call for our cordial admiration. How pleasant it
is to again 111eet and exchange friendly greetings after the year's labor
is done, and how reassuring and delightful to know that these reunions
are not for an hour or a day, but will occur again and again as the
years cycle by, while we, like pilgrims, plod along the rugged road of
life. Like the strings of an instrument touched by a skillful hand, each
string producing its own peculiar tone, yet all blending in one sweet
melodious harmony, so as Masons, as diverse in character and feelings
as in language and complexions, yet all united in one common object, to
benefit mankind, all pressing forward to one common goal-Eternity.

"In this purpose we have been permitted to continue on our peaceful
way while many of our sister Jurisdictions are in the throes of war, torn
asunder by the savage force of armed invasion, and without any discussion of the causes, impulses or ambitions involving in a death
struggle most of the greatest countries of the earth-those with whom
we enjoy the closest bonds of fraternal intercourse, let us at least do
our utmost to relieve the suffering of those afflicted and pray for the
ultimate attainment of universal peace."
Fortunately, the Grand Master was enabled to travel extensively
throughout the State and pay fraternal and official visits to many of
the Subordinate Lodges of the Jurisdiction.
Seven Lodges which had received charters at the preceding Annual
Communication were duly constituted; four dispensations were issued
to form new Lodges; numerous Emergent Communications were held
for the purpose of placing cornerstones of public buildings.
Of the numerous rulings made by him within the year, only two
were considered of sufficient importance to warrant a so-called "decision." One of the questions was whether a Lodge in this Jurisdiction
could entertain an application for membership based on a <limit issued
by a Lodge within the Jurisdiction of New Jersey. 'fhe Grand Master
decided the question in the affirmative, and the only thing about the
case that renders it significant is the fact that Mississippi and New
Jersey are not in fraternal relations with each other, Mississippi having
suspended relations because in the Jurisdiction of New Jersey there is
a regular chartered Lodge of negro Masons.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

G5

fosters and the manhood it expounds and exemplifies. Masoriry ~xtends
far beyond the borders and barriers of s.ect, ~~eed and r:at1?nahty. It
combines all creecis; it unites all. nat1ona)1t1e~, and ~t ignores all
sectarianism; it proclaims an unfeigned belief 111 the 1'atherhood of
God and the Brotherhood of I\lctn.

*

*

*

*

*

*

"'rhe Order of Freemasons is hased on tradition .. ~ow, tradition
to he accepted and pre.served mus~ fulfill three cond1t10_ns: It mu;~
be rational; it must he 111 accord with recorded fact, and it mt1s~ .oen~
a present purpose. l\lasonry meets admirably these three cond1t1ons.'fhe Grand ]\faster, in his Address, sets forth certain reasons why,
in his opinion, a single black ball should not be permitted to bar the
way into membership in a l\fasonic Lodge.
He says:

"In a Lodge clothed with the po\yer and pren~g:itive of refusit~g
to entertain a petition, with all the sateguar~s rcqumn.g recommend.itions, a thorough investigation by a com_m1tte~ c:f discreet Masons,
with still other wise and neces:;ary precaut10ns, 1s 1t not reasonable to
suppose that if the applicant was unworthy, t.hat thei:e would he 111or;
than one member of the Lodge and community to discover that fact.
This being the case. why depend upon the single black ball to prote~t
the institution and enable one me111her to block. the wheels of .Pro~re~s
in his Lodge, by a punctual attendance and persistent and unwise v.iews
of the single black ball?''
From the Report of the Grand Secretary, we learn that dispensations were issued to form four new Lodges, and that the year was an
active one Masonically may be deduced from the fact of the very large
net gain in membership.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands, and recognition was refused to the new Grand
Lodge of France.
From the Report of the Jurisprudence Committee, upon one of
the rulings of the Graud Master, which was disapproved, we quote the
following:
"Third. \Ve are of opinion that there is. at least by iml?lication, an
error in ruling :No. 6, wherein the Grand !\~aster holds pr'.1ct1,all}'. that ~
dimitted Master Mason who has not apph~d fo~ aff1hat1c:n. until '!ft~1
the expiration of more than twelve months is entitled tc: visit and sit. 111
the Lodge of which. he h~d !x:~n a member, and .to wluch. he re?pphes.
It is the law of tills J 11nsd1ct10n. as a general 1ule, that tI.1e n~h~ to
visit is not absolute. and that a Lodge may, or m:iy.not, admit a v1.s1tor,
or a non-member, in its own discretion, or to smt its own convemence.
When the brother in question allowed more than twelve 1!10nJhs to
pass before applying for affiliation, he became, at .the expirat101'. of
the twelve months, an unaffiliated Maste_r Masc;in, with no other n!):ht
than that of app!ying for a~filiation, pepc!mg .wl11~h. he_ could not clam;.
as a matter of nght, the pnv1lege of s1ttmg 111 Ins, or any other Lodge,
except by its conrtesy and consent."

(j(j

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE .

. \n eloquent address was delivered by the Grand Orator, Rev.
Brother R. H. Harper. upon the subject "The Worth of Symbolism.''
Fror.n this oration, which was delivered, so the Report states, in a
forcible and masterful style, and for which the thanks of the Grand
Lodge were tendered to the Orator, we excerpt a few paragraphs, as
follows:
":\ncl there is. no symholism. apart from truth. It is impossible for
man. to draw .a picture of not\ung, to depict something which has no
relatwn and likeness t.o anything else in the material uniYcrsc. The
law of the I~oran forh1d:s the -:\Iohammcdan to represent the forms of
men and ammals. But .111 the carved work of the Moorish architects,
they resorted to a bcaut1fnl comhination of geometric devices, fruit and
floral f<?rms, known a~ Arabesque. .For they could not make a design
of nothing. Tn the Oriental rug, which co\·crs \'Oltr floor, vou mav not
he able to find. a sini:;Ie 0gurc. which correctly represents anv ~bject
you. know, .but Ill the mtncate and pleasing design, vou mav lt1;cl manv
devices which suggest the real objects from which they wC're moclcleci.
"So there is no symbolism apart from truth.

\Vhen a svmhol

~eases to cmwe\• a truth, it ceases to he a symbol, it remains onlv· what

~t was at the first-only a material object representing nothing hcvond

itself. Every symhol represe~ts son;e truth. and cvervthing clone ·in a
Lodge of J\fasons has a meamng winch should not he lost.

*

*

*

*

*

*

"~nd ma~1 himse!f. Goe!'~ noblest creation. and the crowning glory
of His han~1work, 1s a hnng symbol. H c walks erect. his brain
~urn~mmts his body. So mind is greater than matter. The soul is
mfimtely ,aboye the tab~rna~le of clay in which it dwells for a season.
Ai:i~ man s highest destmy 1s found in the cultivation of his moral ancl
spmtua,I i:iature. ii; the making of a man as God would have him he.
And this is the chief encl and aim of Freemasonry."
There is a condensed Report on Correspondence from the Committee, of which Dr. Herman C. Duncan is Chairman.
Owing to the severe illness of the Chairman of the Committee,
the actual work was performed hy friends and other members of the
Committee.
California, 1913, is fraternally considered, with kincllv reference to
the Address of Grand Master Filmer and the work of the~ Grand Lodge.
J\I.'. W.'. ALFRED W. Cm\~S~L-\N, Shre\'Cport, Grand Master.
R.'. \V.'. JoHN A. D.WILLA, ;.;cw Orleans. Grand Secretary.

67

MAINE.
1914.

95th Annual, Portland, May 5, 6, 7.
Lodges, 203; members, 30,294; gain, 422.
There were present sc\'entcen Grand Officers, nine Past Grand
l\Iastcrs, and reprcscntati\'Cs of 188 of the 203 chartered Lodges.
l n his Address, the Crane! ::\[aster feelingly refers to the death
within the year of Very \Vorshipful "Willard F. Hicks, Grand Treasurer.
The Grand l\Iastcr gives expression to the admonition, so frequently encountered in Grand Masters' Addresses, touching the necessity of the exercise of great care in the selection of members to the
encl that unfit material may not he received.
Masonry is not a reformatory institution and only "good men and
trne'' arc supposed to be taken within its folds.
A notable event of local interest occurred in a presentation by
the Grand Master of a silver lo\·ing cup to Brother Stephen Barry,
Grand Secretary, as a mark of appreciation of his ser\'icc of 58 years
in the Grand Secretary's office, first for a period of 35 years as
assistant to his father, who for many years served as Grand Secretary,
and for 23 years as Grand Secretary himself. This record of 58
years of continuous se~vicc as a Grand Lodge officer is certainly
remarkable, and probably a world record.
The Grand Master submitted eleven decisions on points of J\Iasonic
law. The Committee on Jurisprudence requested that they be given
until the next Annual Communication to report on the same.
One of the rulings reported by the Grand Master was to the
effect that charges may be preferred by one who stands suspended
from membership for non-payment of dues.
In our j udgmcnt it is questionable if this decision is upheld by
the Committee on J urisprudencc, for it is difficult to understand how
one who has been suspended from all the rights and prh·ileges of
Masonry can prefer charges against a Mason in good standing any
more than could an expelled Mason or a profane.
Another decision which seems to us at least peculiar was to the
effect that a Lodge could not confer the degrees upon a candidate of
another Lodge. The rule that is now almost universal (Pennsylvania
being the only State, we believe, now remaining holding an opposite
opinion) is that degrees may, as a matter of courtesy, be conferred

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEXCE.
68

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

by one Lodge upon the request of and for the benefit of another
Lodge.
The Grand 1Iastcr also ruled th;it an appropriation could not be
made from the fonds of the Lodge for the purchase of a jewel to be
presented to the retiring :\faster. Technically, possibly, this decision
may be correct, but \\C kno\\' that it is the well-nigh universal
practice of Lodges to make appropriations of this character, and
there is in principle no reason why the Lodge should not be permitted
to express its appreciation for one who has devoted perhaps years of
unselfish effort for the advancement of the cause of Masonry and the
promotion of the welfare of his own Lodge.
In closing his "°'1Jldrcss, the Grand Master quotes the eulogy of
:\[asonry, by Brother Charles W. Moore, of whom the late Past Grand
1Iaster Drummond of this Jurisdiction said that, in his day and
generation, there was no more correct expositor of the Masonic law
on this continent than :\Ioore, as follows:

":\Iasonry is indeed an universal institution. History docs not
furnish a parallel. Tt exists where Christianity has not gone; and its
claims \\'ill he respected even where the superior claims of religion
would fail. It is ne1·cr obscured by the darkness of night. The eye
of day is always upon it. Its footprints are to be traced in the most
distant regions and in the remotest ages of the earth. Among all
civilized peoples, and in all Christianized bnds, its existence is recognized. Un;iffccted by the tempests of war, the storms of persecution,
or the denunciations of fanaticism, it still stands proudly erect in the
sunshine and clear light of Heaven, with not a marble fractured, not
a pillar fallen. Tt still stands, like some patriarchal monarch of the
forest. with its vigorous roots riveted to the soil, and its broad limbs
spread in broad outline against the sky; and in generations yet to come,
as in ages past, the sunlight of !wnor and renown will delight to linger
and play amid its venerable branches. And if ever, in the Providence of
God, lashed by the storm and riven by the lightning, it shall totter
to its fall, around its trunk will the ivy of filial affection, that has so
long clasped it. still cling, and mantle with greenness and verdure its
ruin and decay."
Formal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands. A request for recognition from the Grand Lodge
of Egypt was denied.
Under the head of Mortality, in the Address of the Grand Master,
and speaking with special reference to Grand Treasnrer Hicks, who
died within the year, we find this gem:
"There is a legend in Grecian mythology as told in the Tragedy
of Ion, that when it became known that the King of Argos must lay
down his young life in obedience to a decree of the gods, she whom he

69

· f
1 anguish to tell
loved most dearly pleaded _with him in. her .gne anc
her if they should meet aga111. He ans" cred .
.
"'T have ask'd that dreadful qucs_tion of the lulls
That look eternal; of the flowmg streams
That lucid flow forever; of the st~rs'i . . t
Amid whose fields of azure my rat~e< sp11 t
1Ta th trod in glory; all were ~u.mb, but now,
While I thus gaze upon thy hvmg f~cc,
I f 1 the love that kindles through its beauty
Ca~e never wholly perish ;-we shall meet
Again.'"
• .
C
_ ndcncc by its Chairman,
The Committee on I< or~gnCha~::es!~bmitted, a Report bearing
Past Grand Master _l'\lb~o
·h. 1 l racterize all of the Reports of
evidences of the excellencies w IC 1 c 1a '
this .gifted writer.
.
'f
. 1913 rccei\'cS kindlv and fraternal considerat10n.
,
·
C al 1 onua.
.
1 f om the Address of Grand Master
Generous quotattons arc mace r
H
'l
r and from the scholarlv oration of Grand Orator ervcy.
11ne,
c
•
F
Most Worshipful Thomas H. Badge of
.
At the annua I eI ec t ion
f p t
o.r G
d Master - Brother Stephen Barry o
Augusta was elected ranG
d L 'do- for the fifty-ninth consecutive
land elected to scr\'e the ,ran
o ,.,f
year.

MANITOBA.
1915.

40th Annual, Winnipeg, Jun_e 9.
Lodges, 76; members, 7,242; gam, 313.
Most

Worshipful Lynds S. Vaughan, Grand Master'. presided.

The Grand Master opens his Address as follows:
.
.
he Fortieth Communication C?f the
"In welcommg you dto th.is._ t tances unparalleled in our history,
d L cl ·e I do so un er c1rcums
(,ran
o g . . ti." history of the Universe.
·md I may say 111 1,
'
. f the Grand Masters have, almost
"For many years the addresses
rosperity prevailing throughout
invariably, dwelt upon the pelde. an e~eral. but now, with sorrowful
the Jurisdiction and tld1e wh~tr th~n A~mageddon so long predicted has
hearts we must recor t '
. ,,
burst ~1pon us with unparalleled fury.
.
.
roceeds further to discuss the war s1tuat10n
The Grand Master p
. 1 precipitated out of a clear sky, and
· F..u rope, how it was seem mg Y
'
f ti1
111
·
of some of the wisest statesmen o
e
yet foretold in the utterances
~

d

70

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE:-;CE.
MARYLAND.

British E'll1Jllrc,
·
whose wan1inoc: I.
co1111trv, and I . ·
" l<IV<: lin·n disregarded
the mother
.
·
mw, m consequence. ti J'
I\ holly 1111prepared.
ie '.mpirc \\·as found. in a s('nsc\

1914.

128th Annual. Baltimore. Xovcmlicr 17.
Lodges, 116; memhers. 16,464;
648 .

of ~ I le .refers• [o ti le many ineml>c-rs ui ti , F.. , . ,
. famtoba who have enlisted . I . Jc . l.llermty lll the Jurisdiction
gone down to the silence oi u::1. t-~~_,rnmes and many of whom have
ln·cs to what thcv rc<qrd ·1. t! "pc,t mg dust, sacrificing their vo11110·
·
"''
' ' 1e canse of libcrh-.
· · "'

It is stated at the outset. after the Grand Lodge had gone through
the ceremony. which is peculiar to this Jurisdiction. of receiving the
Grand Master in a sort of state ceremony in which he is conducted
from his so-called chamhcrs thronglt a line of dignitaries to the Grand
East, that the Gr;tnd ~laster made an address in which he gave a
detailed review of the past
work. "all of which was interesting
only to this Grand Lodge." which, we take it, was a
hint that
it was no particular concern of the ~Iasonic world
what
the Grand Master of ~laryland might say or cmmncnt upon in his

The Grand _,\faster calls attenti
.
formed by local Lodges of tl
TOt~ to the remarkable work !Kr~
ca use( ! by the war and· tl1c t 1e -1 · unscl1
·ti
·
II . .
. c on m_ a e\'latmg distress
the f
··
'
enc er c-tre
·
.
··
amihcs of the brethren at ti f. • . exerc1s~d 1ll looking after
bereaved families oi tlrnsc who I 1el ~ol~t ,md also m providing for the
la( ,1 1 eady fallen
The Grand Master's Addre
.. .
'.efercnccs, direct and indirc t t ssl is t,ik?n up almost
with
m which Canada •10 ·1 I ~ 1. o t Jc conflict now goinrr on i11
·
' ' ' ' ova inrt of ti
R ..
,..,
Europe,
mterest<:d.
·
'
le
nt1sh Empire, is vitally

annual address.
hi the several years that we have been reviewing the Proceedings
of G1-;uul Lodges we ban~ not found any printed address of the
Grand .'.\faster of ~Iaryland. hut in the printed Proceedings simply
an announcement that the Grand Master made an address.

The Grand :!\faster records certain
.
.
certam Lodges; he mentions th~ plac:
~f lus official visits paid to
Lodge that was an event. of
,.
o . a cornerstone by the Grand
a beautiful church whic11 tl1 P(~rt1c_1!1 ar mterest, the buildino· being
I
'
,
e .. ram ;\J a t .
. "'
to tie glory of God and the uplift t' I . , s _ci states, has since arisen
o mman1ty.

rnf

Grand ]\laster Shryock is a notable personage in l\Iasonic affairs.
He enjoys the distinction of h;l\·ing been chosen, counting the present
Communication. for thirty consecutive times as Grand Master. which
is now a world's record.

.
1 vanous
we leFrom the Re por t s o f tic
District De
arn that Masonry in the J .. r . : .
puty Grand ::\fa,;ters
condition.
.
uns< ictton is m a l1calthy and prosperous

Brother Shryock is the official head of the George Washington
Masonic Na ti on al !vfcmorial Association and is otherwise active in
.'.lfasonic matters. This is the Gr;md Jurisdiction in which, as stated
a few years since. that no decision hy the
hy Grand Master
Grand Master upon ~[asonic law has heen necessary in the last quarter
of a century, and this record ;1ppears not to have been broken in the
past year, for no decisions arc announced hy the Grand Master.

The Masonic functions of I' f .
.
cred 't bl
.
re le a1 c earned for
I .
1 a c manner, and the Jurisdi t'
.
wan man extremely
on the other side of the hor In. ~ 1011 is one of which our hrethre;1
well be proud.
( 'r !me hetween here and Camt",·1
u
n1ay

Brother Shryock paid a high compliment a couple of years since
to the Masons of Maryland, in that he ayerrccl that the Masons of
~Taryland knew l\Tasonic law, which accounted for the absence of
rulings from the Grand ~faster for so long a period of time.

Fraternal recognition was exh'nde I 111
. .
.
of the Committee
F
.
. ('
.tccordance with the Report
0
Grand L j
.
n ore1gll Relatmns a11d Correspo11(!c·11•·(·. to the
Of ge ot Queensland.
'

M.'. \V.'.
~~~~:A~ ~\NWJc1~'. Brandon, Grand Master.
M.'. \V.'.
.. - .
I AS, W mmpcg, Crane! Secretary.

1n this Jurisdiction the practice prevails of conferring "honorary"
rank, and at this Communication Brothers Rohert Frei{(;; Gould (since
deceased) of England and Edwaurd Quarticr la Tcntc of Switzerland
were elected llonor[try Senior Cram! Wardens of Maryland.

Ir

j
~-

71

REPORT· O"'
~ CORRESPOXDEXCll

d

The notable event of the year in this jurisdiction was the celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the composition hy Francis
Scott Key of the national anthem, "The Star Spangled Danner."

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

It appears that the Grand Lod .
.
.
.
bration, erected a magnificent Courtg~f ~~o::~ c?ntnbution to the ccle~cmplc, which was thought to be the m
r m _front of th~ Masonic
kmcl ever seen in Baltimore and ti
I ost beantiful decoration of its
ti
•'
le vo nme of printed p
cl·
JC current year contains phot
I
k
.
rocee mgs for
nificcnt I
·
.
ograp JS, ta en at mght, showing the mage ectncal effects m connection with the Court.
The City Committee
.,
l ·
silve
l
expi csscr its appreciation by presenting· a
r ~up to. t le Grand Lodge in recorrnition
connect10n with the event.
"
of its co-operation m
The Report on Correspondence is ;-wain f
l
h
l
· '""
rom t Je pen of Rev.
H cnry B
ranc ' w 10, two years ago, succeeded B
many years Chairman of ti C rother Schulz, for so
JC orrespondencc Committee in Marvlancl.
.
Brother Branch's reports are brief and
l
.
f I. I
exce lent. He has some
ideas of his own with soi
He defends, for' instance n~J: ~: llC J_.
may be pri:'ileged to differ.
the gospel from pavmcnt 'f l _P pos1t1on _of _exe1;1pt111g ministers of
with that this exei~Jptio ~ c_egrec fees, affmmng Ill connection thcren is.ma sense a rec u "t"
f
.
to the Craft b · tl ·
· · '
o,,,m ion o thcu- service
Y lcir patronage of the Institution

:ve

89

lo that aspect of our teaching which inculcates that the spmt of
Masonry should not be confined to the lodge room, nor even to our own
membership. and that we owe an active duty, not a passive one, to
humanity.

•

He conceives that we are living today in a formative age; that
civil government in State and Nation seeks regeneration; that the
present expressions of discontent are because of the aspirations of
man for something better, and that that something may be found in
the teachings of Masonry, based upon the universal Fatherhood and
the universal Brotherhood.
He secs that the highest ideals of yesterday, and perhaps even of
today, are found in the law of reason, tempered by justice, but that
the higher ideals of tomorrow will express the justice of civil government, tempered with brotherly love, relief and truth, and that in this
ideal of tomorrow we, as ?11asons, are unconsciously playing our part.

We agree with him that reli ion l"b
in hand and tl t
h
.. g , I er(\·. and Freemasonrv o-o hand
,
Ja w ere religious liberty is t
I cl F . "'
1s throttled.
· ramme e
reemason ry

He finds that the spirit of equality in our Fraternity, which
eliminates the inequalities of birth and environment, and where all
meet upon the level, and where the only real badge of distinction is
that of character, is the true spirit that will lead the race onward and
upward. In the past he conceives that the spirit of Masonry has been
as the candl.e to civil liberty, lighting its devious pathway step by step,
and that in the readjustment of civil conditions, if this spirit can
dominate the age which we are entering upon, the generation just
before us will write the brightest page in the world's history.

Brother Branch reviews California 19
Grand Master Filmer's Adel'
'
l3, and. quotes liberally from
f
. of Brother H . . ress,
and also quite la
0 rat10n
.
.
.
rgc 1Y rom the
en ey, w 1JIC1J is lughly commended.

Under Decisions, Grand Master Morgan said: "I have made very
few decisions, and what I have made were more in the nature of
interpretations of the law than otherwise!'

At the annual election Most \V . 1 · f 1
'·I tnnore
.
.I , , o1s up u Thomas
! ht
was re-elected ('
' · J · SJ Jryoc k- of
p .
,ranc "'aster and Brother Gcor!fc· Cc10J,·.
>alt1111ore, re-elected Grancl
S
t
c
\...._ ecre ary.

Among his decisions was one to the effect that an objection to
the advancement of the candidate, made to the Master-elect before his
installation, need not be observed; and the three remaining decisions
related to interpretations of local law touching visible physical defects,
etc.

In our judgment, Masonn· is not honored
.
profession or callino-. but
·ti ·
or patromzecl by anv
"' '
, on Jc ot 1lcr hand J\1a
h
·
o f whatever calliiw or p f ..
h
' • ' 'sonry on ors those,
,..,
ro ess1on t C\' mav b
I
' - e, w 10 are permitted
to partake of its privileges.

u

MASSACHUSETTS.

1914.

18lst Annual, Boston, December 9.
Lodges, 257; members, 67,901 ; gain, 2,304.
The _sev~ral Quarterly Communications of the ,·ea
C ommu111cation of D
I
.
, ' r (the Quarterh·
.
ecem Jer 9 henw counted a ti
Annual) wer~
presided onr hy :!\fost \Vorshipful M:,h-1"1J ''f.
's Jc
" J olmson, Grand Master.

Brother Chas. N. Shepard delivered an oration on "Brotherhood
and Immortality." The effort was a studied one, but was apparently
greatly appreciated, as at its close the Orator received a standing vote
of thanks, with a request to furnish a copy of the effort for publication
m the Proceedings.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Charles J. Phelps. The Report possesses the quality of brevity, but is

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

_It appears that the Grand Lod e
.
.. .
brat10n erected a mag 111'fi
C
g , ;is its contribution to the cclc'
'
'
cent
ourt
of
Hono
·
f
T emple, which was thought t b th
r m ront ot the :VIasonic
kind ever seen in Rtltimor~ . od el e most beautiful decoration of its
tie volume of
· t l p
J current year contains pl'• . .tn
tic
t
.
P_nn ec roccedings for
10 ogrdp 11s taken ·it
'f'
·
11! 1cent electrical effect
· , ·
. ·· ' .
' mg Ilt, s Irnwmg
the mao_
·
· 5 ll1 connection wnh the Court.
""
The
Committee ex ,, .
·
.
silver cup to the G
I L. prcs~ed its appreciation by presenting ct
connection with ti ran(
odge lll recognition of its co-orieratinn i'11
1e event.
"
The Report on Correspondcnce is ;wain 1 rom t 11e pen of Rev.
H enry Branch ·l
"'
many years
Brother Schul;,:, for so
Committee in Maryland.
Brother Branch's reports arc brief
.
ideas of his own with some f l . I
and excellent. He has some
H d f
,
o w nc i we mav be
. 'J
d
e e ends, for instance the
. .
.-·
pnv1 ege to differ.
the gospel from pavment 'f l propos1t1011 ot exempting minist~rs of
.I
. o
o c earee
affirm'
.
wit 1 that this exemptio · . "
ing m connection theren is. Ill a sense a recoo 'f
.
to t !1e Craft bv their pat
f
· · ' .
,,,ni ion of their service
·
ronagc o the lnstnution.

Ch:i~~~~nt:~ ~1e~tr~ 0~;~~p~~~~~:~~ced

In our judgment, Masonn· is not I
profession or calli1w. hnt
.ti . I wnored or patronized by anv
"' •
· on le ot 1cr lnnd :'If
h
•
o f w l1atever calling.' or p f . .
' • " asonry on ors those.
ro ession t 11e 1· nn v b
l
to partake of its privileges.
·
' - e. w 10 are permitted
\Ve agree with hi th·
r ·
.
d
m
,11 re 1g1011, hbertv and Frc
an , and that where religious liberty· .
. emasonry go hand
is t h rottled.
is trammeled Freemasonry
i11 h

Brother Branch reviews California 19 13
Grand Master Filmer' 'dd
•
• and quotes liberally from
s n
re« and a !so
't l
0 ration of Brother Her,
. ·l .••• .
.
·
qui e argely from the
\ e}, w uch is lughly commended.
l. f I
p l ·At the annual election ·ivf(JSt
· \"
·v ors 11p u Thomas
>a tllnorc was rc--elec:ted ('.
~r

J. Shryock of
.
·
sl anc1 "' aster and
I~ a l tmwre,
Brother George Cook.
re-clectecl Gr·11 1 J S
, c

ccreta ry.

MASSACHUSETTS.

1914,

18lst Annual, Boston, December 9.
Lodges, 257; members, 67,901 ; gain, 2,304.
The .several
Quarte
Conmnrn1c:at1ous
· .
1·].,
.
<
.:
of tl
.
Commumcat1011
of December 9 1, ,
. . ie ye:ir (the Quartcrlv
Jlrt''ided m·er hv 1\fost \Vor 5 1 . f l.e~1rg1 ~ounted as the Annual) wer~
·

· ·

!Ip u

n· C' nn :'If. Johnson,

Grand Master.

89

to that aspect of our teaching which inculcates that the spirit of
:Masonry should not be confined to the lodge room, nor even to our own
membership. and that we owe an active duty, not a passive one, to
humanity.
He conceives that we are living today in a formative age; that
civil government in State and Nation seeks regeneration; that the
present expressions of discontent arc bec::it1sc of the aspirations of
man for something better, and that that something may be found in
the teachings of Masonry. based upon the universal Fatherhood and
the universal Brotherhood.
He sees that the highest ideals of yesterday, and perhaps even of
today, are found i11 the law of reason, tempered by justice, but that
the higher ideals of tomorrow will express the justice of civil government, tempered with brotherly love, relief and truth, and that in this
ideal of tomorrow we, as Masons, are unconsciously playing our part.
He finds that the spirit of equality in our Fraternity. which
eliminates the inequalities of birth and environment, and where all
meet upon the level, and where the only real badge of distinction is
that of character, is the true spirit that will lead the race onward and
upward. [n the past he conceives that the spirit of Masonry has been
as the candle to civil liberty, lighting its devious pathway step by step,
and that in the readjustment of civil conditions, if this spirit can
dominate the age which we are entering upon, the generation just
before us will write the brightest page in the world's history.
Under Decisions, Grand Master Morgan said: "I have made very
few decisions, and what I have made were more in the nature of
interpretations of the law than otherwise,"
Among his decisions was one to the effect that au objection to
the advancement of the candidate. made to the M aster-elrct before his
installation. need not be observed; and the three remaining decisions
related to interpretations of local law touching visible physical defects,
etc.
Brother Chas. K. Shepard delivered an oration on "Brotherhood
and Immortality." The effort was a studied one, but was apparently
greatly appreciated, as at its dose the Orator received a standing vote
of thanks, with a request to furnish a copy of the effort for publication
in the Proceedings.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Charles J. Phelps. The Report possesses the qnality of brevity, hut is

~JO

REPORT ON CORRESPO:\DENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDE:\CE.

withal an excellent <locmnent with crisp allu:;io1i,; to the doing:; of
other J nrisdictions and salient' points en lied therefrom.
California, 1913, is briefly alluded to.

l\I:. \V:. Trnl~L\S \\r. D.w1s, Beaver City, Grand ?.laster.
R.'. \\!:. FR.\:sc1s E. WmTJ:. Omaha. Grand Secretary.

NEVADA.

1914.
50th Annual, Reno. June 9, 10, 11.
Lodges, 25; members, 1,939; m•t gain, 33.
The Annual Conrnlllnication was presided over hv Crand ::\Lister
:'\lost \Vorshipfnl \Villiam Ilf. David. There were -present thirteen
Past Grand l\Iastcrs and representatives of twenty-one ot1t nf the
twrnty-fi1·c chartered Lodges.
As distinguished visitors there were present at this Fiftieth . \nninr:;ary of the Grand Lodge our own .:\Iost \Vorshipfnl John n. ,\[u 1:_
P,hey, at that time Grand J\laster of California, and our Very \Vorshipful
(,rand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker.
.From an inspection of
Y c·ars of J\Tasonry in :t\ cvada." a
paper hy \Vorshipful Brother Lloyd B. Thomas. we can rcadih- belicn:
that N cvacla :.\fasons may fed a splendid pride in the l\Iasonr; of that
State.

91

stamping out the evils which exist in ccrt;:in towiis of the far \V ~st
•and which are inherited from earlier days.

N' cvacla is one of the Slaks that canies 110 liqnor legislation ii,
its Masonic Code. Xotwithstamling this fact, the Grand .\laster urges
the Lodges to he vigilant along these lines, refusing to accept applications for membership frorn saloonkcepers or other undesirable citizens.
He deprecates the use of liquor at banquets ::ncl urges N c,·ada to
fall in line with other Jnrisdictions that have p!nccd the stanw of
disapproval upon the whole liquor business.
Referring to the question of a lVlasonic H omc, he douhis the
wisdom of a Jurisdiction no larger numerically than N cvada to enter
npon a project of so serious a financial cha meter; and we think there
will be little disagreement with the Grand .\faster upon this subject by
those who possess intimate knowledge oi the subject of :\fasonic
Homes drawn from actual experience.
The Home project is, in our opinion. a splendid adjunct to large
Jurisdictions that have means of obtaining ample funds, but for
Jurisdictions having only a few thousand members there is, we helit:vc.
no justification in embarking upon the undertaking.
'fhe Grand Master announced a few decisions. mmt of them
construing local law. One decision, which may lie of general ii1tcrest
and which was approved by the Jurispru<lcncc Committee am! the
Grand Lodge, and which was undoubtedly correct, is ao follows:

"EXAMIKATION' OF VISITORS

The .'\ddress of Grand :.\faster David is an excellent paper. which
ranks high among the addresses of Grand Masters for the current
year.

"Decision :t\o, 2-

l~c r_efrrs somewhat at length to the Trowel & Square Club, an
orga111z;1hon made np of i\fasons from the faculty and student,; from the
State
at Reno. The aims and purpm;es of this duh arc
certainly n;ry laudable and justify proper encouragement.

"lt shall be the dutv of the ).faster to ;1ppoint all committees to
<'xarninc visitors, which, shall l:e clone at the . meeting at y;h~ch . the
visitor presents himself; and such comnuttce. will r~'port their findm!l's
to the Lodge, and mus~ vouch for the visitor, alter such report 1s
made, either to the Semor D~acon. who c:u: !ntroduce the visitor, or
the committee may personally mtroduce the \'lSltor to the Lodge.

In connection with the surrender of the charter of one of the
~odges that had fallen into decay because of unfortunate civic conditions of the town in which the Lodge was located, the G1·aml Master
stated that, whik ht' had no inLL'll\ion of criticising the earlier citizens
of the
yet he ventnrc;d to say that many of the things done
hy them in earlier an<l rougher days woul<l not pass muster at the
present time, and he expressed the hope that the M:asons of Nevada
would nut shirk the responsibility uf taking a prominent part in

"It is not lawful for the Master and two brethren to examine a
visitor o~tside the Lodge room (premises), nor for any broth~r to do
so at the request or with the permission of the :\.laster; nor is. 1t lawful
for th rce brethren to constitute themselves s~cb a comm1ttee and
examine a visitor outside the I;odge r?om ( premrnes), or ~e!wccn meetings. and then give the Tyler mstruct101;s. to ~;hmt such nsttor wnhout
further ceremony, he bemg deemed protteicnt.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is for the eleventh time
presented bv the Grand Secretary, Most \Vorshipful Brother Edward
D. Vanderlleth, whose official title is "Commissioner of Review.''

HEPORT ON CORRf<JSPONDF.J:\'Cl~.

REPORT ON CORRFJSPONDENCl<J.

His comments cover a wide ranue of
1. t
cl"· · · ·
· ' "
sn JJec s He touches with
_1scr11mnat1.on npon the o11tstanding feature
f . .. .
. . .
tions am! chsco\'ers in all of them
s o the _diff_crent J unsdic·
of especial mtercst.
California ' 1913
.
.
'· is· f r,t. 1et.•
11-t 11 1· cons1dcred
If e finds especial merit
m _the Oration of Grand Orato; \Villiam ni10des Hervey an<l makes
a liberal quotation therefrom.

He refers to the lwautiful situation of the city of Fredericton, on
the banks of a great river, amidst encircling hills. and then he ventures
the prediction that all tnC'rnbers of thC' Grand Lodge will carry away
with them pleasant memories of the dty and of the people.

. In his "Conclusion" he refers to ti
l. I
.
.
. .
liquors, but qnesti<Jt1s the
. d
. f
le )att e agamst rntox1cal111g
·
w1s om o too
I1 l · 1 ·
.
the diminution of the
· t
cl
mnc
egis at1on looking to
·
ancren an
as he belie
· h
·
Subordinate Lodges to select and I; I . . I . ves, m. erent rights of
e t le J ttc ges of their own material.
He observes what others ban: lik . . .
.
ciphers and
·I . ·! .
. . . cw1se taken notice of, that
.
\\, uc 1 oome J unsd1ct1011s have given offichl r .
.
t10n to, have fallen by the wa vside He note· th t I
. • ecogm.
towar<l
•
•
·
·
"
a t 1erc 1s a
Lodges in 1
t 11e rigor . heretofore exercised by so manv Grand
tie matter
of
\·1s1hle
plwsi·cal
. .
1ie11evmg
.
· · ·'
a ·
t ·
us d o, that the prime question should
ti
1
' , s mos ot
!'Ji ·
·
ra 1er w iat are the internal
qua 1 icatwns, mstead of how does a man look pl1ysically.

!

.

His obse1Tatio11s upon o ti icr topics
·
arc timely and macle \"1"tl1
judgment.
.
,

l iscriminating

At the annual election 'T
"' • · · ur
vv • • · 'I'! 1eocl ore J St .
was chosen Grand ~I·
. E
· emmetz of Reno
re-elected Grand Sec;et~~~~r,
dward D. Vanderlieth, Carson City,

NEW BRUNSWICK.

1914.
47th Annual, Fredericton, August 25-26.
40; members, 3. 539;
192.
. A Special Communication of the Gran 1 L
,
.
twn of St. John the Bapf t' D,
T c odgc was held m celebrais s
ay.
he celebrati
t k 1
'
tl1 S <l
on oo . p ace on
s unday. June 21 ' which \"a""
e un av nearest th F
·
John the Baptist The Com
. .
·
e 'est1val ot St.
. .
mu111cat1011 was called f
tl
condncting a special <ervice
·!11.
. '
or ie purpose of
1
Grand Chaplain Rev .. R : \\ c11 was (one
by the V cry Reverend
'
·
· ·"-· nrmstrong Recto 0 f 1' · ·
The sermon delivered by Re.
'
. · r.
Church.
"- A rmstrono·
1s
1 nmty
·
.
Proceedings and is· well wor
. th y perusa I . "
pnntec Ill full m the
!he. Grand Master, in opening his Address at the Annual Com·

'.nnm~at10n, state~ th.at the Grand Lodge mce~~ fnr the first time in

,\nnu,!1 Commt1111cat1011 in Fredericton .. 't· I of thv Prm·ince of
New Brunswick.
· c.ipi ,\

\Vithin his year as Cram! ]\faster lie dsitcd officially probably
half of the Lodges of the Jurisdiction and was otherwise active in
carrying forward the work of Masonry within the Province. He issued
one dispensation to form a new Lodge, known as Snnberry Lodge, at
Fredericton J~nction.
The Reports of the Grand Secretary, the Grand Treasurer and thC'
Board of General Purposes disclose a healthfol and prosperous condi·
tion of the Grand Jurisdiction, which, while small, is neverthekss
performing crcditahly the functions
Freemasonry within the
diction.
At the election Jl,I0st Worshipful Hedley V. B. Bridges, LL.D.,
Fredericton, was elected Grand Master; Right Worshipful J. Twining
Hartt, St. John, re-elected Grand Secretary.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.

1915.
!26th Annual, Concord, May 19.
Lodges, 80; members, 10.782; gain, 128.
The feature in this J nrisdiction is the Semi-annual Communication,
which is even more largely attended than the Annual. The Semi·annual
Communication was held on December 29, 1914, at which time th~
three degrees of Masonry were exemplified by three different Lodges
selected by the Grand Lecturer for the purpose. The "work" was duly
criticised and commended. The fcatu re of these Semi-annual Communications is a Feast or Banquet, which, as usual. took place at this time.
At the Annual Communication the Grand .Master, Most Worshipful
Brother Stephen S. Jewett, delivered an address covering his official
acts within the year preceding. He commented <'It the outset of his
Address upon the eventful year which had just p<'!ssed, contrasting the
world conditions as they existed when the Grand Lodge met in the
same hall a year before with the conditions as they exist today; and
he stated what was quite true, that no one even dreamC'd that within
the space of a year the world. which was at the beginning of the year
at peace, should, within the brief spac~ of time between the two sessions
of the Gran<l Lo<lge. hecome in\'oh-ccl in !he most sanguinary and
,\cstructive war in all history.

94

REPORT OX CORRESPONDENCE.

Rl<JPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

He drew attention to what so many comm<'nt upon, that we, a;;
may rejoice that conditions here arc so radically different
from those which exist npo11 the continent of Enrope, and that. while
that co11ti11('nf is in\'C•h·e<l in such an awful struggle, where hundreds
of thonsands of li\"cs arc sncrificcd, we in America arc enjoying
the beneficence which comes as a reward of pence; and that it is not
possible for any hereditary rnler in America to plunge the continent
into bloody warfare to gratify his lust for power.
Grand Master Jewett was greatly pleased with the character of the
l\Iasonry of his Jurisdiction. He hc~d been strongly impressed, so he
states, within the year that he has presided in the Grand
with
the
of the various Lodges a·"ng all lines tending to support the
grand principles that are set forth in the ritual and work; he yoicccl
his conviction that the :\fasonic Fraternity is the greatest bulwark for
the general good of this country thnt is in existence today, and he
ventures to say that \' ew Hampshire l\Iasons arc fully alive to their
duties and obligations. and will always he found standing shoulder to
shoulder and showing by their conduct and action that the Fraternity
to which they belong is not for mere empty show.
Certain Special Conmmnications of the Grand Lodge were held
within the year for various purposes; for
for the dedication
of a certain Masonic hall; for purposes of instruction, etc.
The Grand Master refers to the :\Iasonic Home, and states that
under the able management of the distinguished mcmb<:rs of the
Fraternity who have it in charge the: home is keeping up the high
standard of its good vmrk.
The Grand :\faster refers to the George \Vashington National
Memorial Association and to the report of his proxy, Brother Francis
J. Woodman, who attended the meeting, the Grand ]\faster himself not
being able to be present.
The Masonic War Relief Association of the United St;\tcs of
America addressed the Grand Master of New llampshirc. as it has
all of the Grand ,\Tasters. appealing for contributions for the purpose
of making concerted effort among :\fasonic hodic:s of the l!nitc:d States
and among Freemasons to afford relief. New Hampshire responded
generously to this appeal.
<)"JI
!

ff J~?

fHf

Personally, we are of the opinion that this appeal for ai(t
Masonic snfferl'rs in the Enropcan war is premature. The nati.\\il;'
that arc at war arc able, for the present at least, to take care of the
distress incident to the great conflict, and do not welcome interference
from the outside. Later on, when the war is over, then· may he w.ork

95

'
·
that the great :\Iasonic Fraternity of .·,menca.
can do, 1n1t until that
t
t
im
1
time comes it is probably )etter o mam '
'·1 position of strict
neutrality.

· I'Y. Most. \Vor:;hipfnl
The report 0 11 f orcign Corrcspm.uI cncc is.
. •,
.
P·
st
('
-11<!
'l·a,ll'r
1t
bcmg
J.-farrv l\I·. Cl Iency, t1
:r 1' 1
;.\ c •
•
~ Ins mnth p1od11ct10n.

1-Ie reviews in an interesting and instructh·c manner the doing s
wtt 11
oi other Grand" Lodges; his comment,; an< I quota t"·ions arc nndc
'
intelligence and discernment.
From his Introduction, we quote:
"The Yit·d thinO" which Freemasonry docs to a worth-while ;11tn
·'
"
't'
lt confer, no power' creates no CdS e.
to uive ]11111 opportnm !CS.
"
• I " -·h '' 'rtocs tliesc things.
"'1·
J'f
.
.
•
01 1IY •t · s;:rncc ·1rn s,\Cl luCc .
cnnob es no l e. S<IYfc
'~:
t
e ~f 01;r Fntcrnitv. This is the
•
' j- the CXCll'"" or t 1IC CXIS enc
'
·1
1
·t
Tl ns
·
~ .
. · 11011.
Thi.·' is· wll\·- men, gom am true, cas
m:misiwmg
of· our [ nst1tu
their lot with us.
· ,t I1':". Ias·t ,t .w.c ii" c• months
"\'ou cannot read what I ha\·c \"l'<\( 1 1_11
\\·it hon! hdic\·ing that Frecma;;onry is pcrfoi m111g it, llll':iSlOll.
j,

"lsn 't it glorious to be a part of it?"
California is omitted from his R cpor t ·
di(] not reach his table.

Our Proceedings c\·idcntly

:\I.', \V.'. STEPHE"1 S. ]F.w£TT. Laconia. lT-ekctcd Grand :\~ast<:r: ,
:\f .'. \V .', H .\HR Y :M. C HENF.Y. Concord. r'-clccted Grand Secrct,1r~.

NEW JERSEY.

1915.

l28th Annual. Trenton, April 21-22.
Lodges, 194; members, 40.569; gain, 1.895.
The Annual Communication was presided over J,y the lllost
\:Vorshipful Charl<.:s P. Russ, Grand ?\faster.

•

Officers present,_ and the represcnta. of ('rand
7 c
Tl1cre was. a f t Ill l ·ist
tives of 189 out of 194 chartered Lodges, only five Lodges unrepresentNI; certainly a splendid record.

'
1 ('
d 1h -ter W'l" about to call the Grand Lodge to order,
,,s t 1e ... ran " ' '
'..
·
"tl
· · I
, ., I T asurer Buck addressed him and presented !um wi I a ga\e
( ,1,mc
re, ,
f I
11 1 ttl I ip Wabash
, f
'O()(I used in the construction o t ie o ( 1a es~
'
ma(Ie rom "' ·
·
.
H . I · I rlll'' the w·1r
built in 1858, and afterwards mustered m as a ags 11p l ll ,.,
'

_

_,

__

------~~~~-~--------

96

8l

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDl<JXCE.

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCK

of 1861
c . · . Ti ie Grand l\Iaster accepted the rrweJ and expressc>d his
apprec1at1011 in fitting words.
"'

There has been some trouhle in this Juri:<diction over the appearance of a cipher ritual, and effective measures, which will probably be
successful, were adopted to eradicate the evil.

In opening his Address, the Grand :.\faster said :

As a proper recognition of the valuable assistance rendered by the
women of the Eastern Star toward the Masonic Home at Meridian, it
was resolved that certain members of the Order of the Eastern Star be
appointed in an advisory capacity to act in conjunction with the Board
of Managers of the Home, and at the close of the session four ladies
of the Eastern Star organization were appointed.
"Wisdom,
d B
with us now
an
eaut~·. those wonderful attributes arc
1
determine th;t ~~hi~!~ · 10[e they will be eternally. The Wisd~;u' to
magnify o11r
!~. iallowed ~bo,vc. and beyond; the Strength to
Beanty of
tod\\1 an! our bcrng s m_ev1tahlc termination. and the
a iercnce to a purity of ·
d
..
execution to
at His feet."
ann an
noh1hty of

Frederic Gordon Speed, son of the heloved Frederic $peed, formerly
Grand Secretary and the foremost figure of this Jurisdiction, rendered
his fourth Annual Report, a fine, business-like document covering in
splendid fashion, with carefully prepared tables, the transactions of his
office within the preceding year.

"th'.l'hel Grand l\faster, in his Address. fcelinglv refers to the dnth

There is a fine Masonic Home for children in this State, which
shelters now and gives careful and beneficial training to 120 orphans.

~;as;~r.t 1e year of Most \Vorshipful Joseph \\' .Congdon, Past Gr;;nd
. The Grand Master m:ule m1merons visits to other ('., d J .. 1·
t10ns · for
I .
.
,1,m
tlr!S( IC·
. "t'
. .
1e c1ttended the Conference of Grand l\fasters held
m ~ . Lams, h.e was present as a guest of the Grand Lodrre of Ca . I·
upon the occas10n of the celeLration of the on h d.1 I ."'.
tuc ·l
Letwce1 ('
t B · ·
c mi cc J cars of peace
ntam and the United States. he visited ~h C . 1
. . 1 ..... rea
of Delawa
.
'
e ,ram
JI ur1sd1ct1on
J. . d h. <. re, accompan1ed hy several distinguished brethren.
1e a ~o V!Slte t e Grand Jurisdiction of Penn<ylnnia. and
v
'
her 18 1914 h
t h '-'
·· '
•
on c•Ovcm' . d . ..,,,.
• e me t e iv.1ost \Vorshipful Brother George Freifeld
( ,rc1u master of New York
d · 1 1·
•
of L d
N 9? " .
' an wit 1 im1 attended a Communication
o .ge 0 · - of Brooklyn, New York, in celchration f
o f t heir five hundredth member.
o the raising
The affairs of the l\Jasonic Home arc referred to
.
and satisfactory condition, there h<:ing
• a~ ml a p;o~p:n:11s
or dit
d
npp c ot trrct1011
. t oco:I1 .c1llt to n:ar the placidity of the surface of the home cst1blishmcn ' v. i1c l contm11c< to c-1rrv ot t ·1
"fi
.
•
l d 11
l M
. .
.. .
I
l s mag111 cent work m a tnily
au a J e anc
asomc manner.

<\ T'.1rough the Masonic zeal and enthusiasm of the Masonic H" 't .· I
" ssociation the "Old ){fasonic Temple" al Trenton
L' m 1ca
first Masonic building in that section of the
h. : cv.b J erse}' the
in 1793
l
avmg een erected
' was securec and restored and the huild"
,
d
by the M
· H'
·
'
mg was turne over
,
asomc
istoncal Association to the ('rand L 0 cl
I. I
ace t d th
··
·
'
ge w uc 1
ep e
e gllt with appropriate resolutions of thanks and appr~ciation.

X,

The Report o1~ Foreign Correspondence is, as usual
man, :Vfost vVorsh1pfol Robert .\ Sh.
f p . G
, by the Chair- .
trre s, a:-t ~'rancl Master. The

The Grand Lodge was favored with an oration from Brother
R. M. Grant, who during the year had, at the request of the Grand
Master, kindly delh-ercd lectures upon Masonic subjects in different
parts of the Jurisdiction, and at the conclusion of the oration a resolution of thanks was tendered to Brother Grant for his
effort, and the request was made of him that he iurnish a copy of
this address to be printed in the Proceedings for distribution among
the Lodges.
Honorary rank seems to obtain in this Jurisdiction, for we read
in the Report that, on motion of Past Grand Master Edwin ]. Martin,
Brother Jones L. vVilliams was unanimously elected as Honorary
Past Grand Master.
There are not many of our American Grand Jurisdictions that
indulge themselves in this English form of bestowal of empty, though
perhaps honorary, distinction.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Chairman of the
Committee, Most \Vorshipful Harry Howard, Past {;rand :.faster. He
states that Masonry, reserved and dignified, has the right to exist as
long as men are willing to hold to her beliefs and to practice her
doctrines of infinity and immortality. "In the story of the widow's
son," he states, "is one of the greatest legends and a duty to fidelity
of trust that thrills the hearts of m('n wherever they hear it repeated."
California, 1913, is reviewed in a friendly and intelligent manner.
JtssE M. BROOKS, Clarksdale, Grand Master.
FREDERIC GORDON' SPEED, Vicksburg, Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON CORRBSPONDENCE.

82

REPOHT ON CORRJ<JSPO:\'DENCE.
MISSOURI.

1914.

94th Annual, Kansas City, September 20.
Lodges, 631;
61,522; gain, 3,285.
At the Ninety-fourth Annual Communication all of the Grand
Officers were present, twenty Past Grand Masters, and the representath·es of 458 of the 631 chartered Lodges.
Ma~tlr Jost, the Mayor of Kansas City, and himself a Mason, in
v.:dc~mmg the Grand Lodge to his city, delivered a very happy and

plcasmg address, full of allusion to .Masonic principles and precepts.
He states that while some travel the high road of plenty and comfort, others are not thus blessed, and those who arc less fortunate
should always be borne in mind by those who have achieved success.
He called attention to the need of such societies as Masonrv "which
helps its members to grow to moral
there being
·'
need
of such men to hold the colors of
aloft, to cultivate and grow
:he tlowers of kindness in variety and profusion to the end that their
lragr~ncc may penetrate and gladden every life." The supreme act.
he pointed out, of a lofty soul is to forget itself and think of someone
else; the han~ that. reaches om to steady the tottering footsteps of
some weary p1lgnm 1s an exemplification of 1'.fasonic precept.
. He called attention to the fact that the city government of Kansas
City practices. practical ~Iasonry; he stated that for nearly a decade
the C'lty had mterested itself in the human driftwood that tends to
gather at big centers of population; he referred to the Department of
Publ'.c VV clf.are and its Municipal Farm, which is known nationally
and 1nternat1011ally as having solved this problem so that it occasions
httle trouble, the city government maintaining no prisons, no free
soup houses, no alms dispensing agents, hut distributes charitv ]J,·
pro,·iding work; no one within the city gates need go to bed snpp~rlc;,
or without shelter; the city will tcmpora rily ieed and house him. hllt
he must pay the price in labor.
His Excellency the Mayor certainly made an cxcdlcnt address
and no doubt the Grand Lodge appreciated the cordialitv of his welcome
to Kansas City.
·
'l'hc Annual Address of the Grand Master covers a great many
pages of the printed Proceedings and is a complete resume of his
official acts dnri11g the year.
He submitted twenty-nine decisions. .More than twenty of them
were rulings comtruing Grand Lodge legislation upon the liquor
question.

Some of these decisions, while only oi local application, ncverthekss
present some amusing and well-nigh microscopic \·ariations.
A waiter, for instance, at an Elks Clnh, where liquors arc scn·cd
One, however, who is
employed at a beer-bottling works was looked upon favorably, and it
was denied that the running of a distillery was sufficient grounds
for expulsion, etc.

to members 011ly, was held to he ineligible.

The Grand Master made an exhaustive report on the Confrrence
of Grand Masters, which was held in St. Louis in 1Iay. He expressed
a belief that these Annual Conferences are of great value and should
he continued.
Personally, we fail to see what particular benefit can be derived
from these Annual Conferences, aside from the social features, which
arc. no douht, cnjoyahlc to those permitted to participate therein.
There is, we believe, invariably, at these Annual Conferences. a resolution
introduced looking to the formation oi a General Grand Lodge. and
at each conference thus far these resolutions arc indignantly repudiated.
with the accompanying declaration that nothing is intended along these
lines. In fact, these denials have become so emphatic and frequent
that an observer is almost constrained to ·say, with the poet, "Methinks
she doth protest too much.''
One of ·the alleged purposes of these Conferences, at least the one
that is most persistently advanced, is the idea of securing uniformity
in the "work" throughout the various Jurisdictions, as well as uniformity touching such questions as "penal jurisdiction," etc.

Tt is our belief that these very differences, which these Solons
complain of, constitute one of the distinctive features of Freemasonry
that differentiates our Institution from modern imitators, and, while
these immaterial variations exist, and must exist if each Grand Lodge
is sovereign and independent, yet there is an umlerlying agreement and
harmonv in the great essentials which are common to Masonry throughont th~ world, and the fact that the "work" of Pennsylvania, for
instance, may differ materially from the "work" of California, yet
California Ma sons and Pennsylvania :\fasons have no difficulty in
proving to each other that they are all members of the same great
Fraternity.
One of the outstanding features uf \lis-onri i\brnnry is ib magniticcnt :VIasonic Home. The matter of providing an increased income
to meet the increased dcmarnls upon the Iiome came before the Grand
Lodge for its serious consideration, and several plans for the creation
of a permanent Endowment Fnnd for the Masonic Home were sug-

84

REPORT ON

CORRJ<JSPO~DENCE.

gestc<l by the Grand :\laster, ranging all the way from life insurance
to bequests by will. l t is probable, however, that the plain, every-day
method of increasing the per capita tax for Home purposes will be
resorted to.
The Report of the Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand
Lodges recommended the recognition of the ::-Jatioual and Independent
Grand Lodge of France and her Colonies, alleging as a reason for this
that England and Scotland have recognized the new claimant. It is
not always safe to base action in matters of this kind upon what
England or Scotland may do; and. as a matter of fact, it was pointed
out by Brother Gallagher of Massachusetts that England had probably
not recognized this Body at all; that its chief officer had been a
member of the Grand Orient of France; that the new Body does not
consist of more than two or three Lodges, with a total membership of
perhaps less than seventy.

If Brother Gallagher is not mistaken in his deductions, and he
usually is very accurate, this so-called new Grand Lodge possesses small
grounds for asking recognition as a sovereign Grand Lodge of Craft
Masonry from the other Grand Lodges of the world.
The Grand Master's suggestion that the ..:\merican Flag be made
a part of the Lodge furniture met the approval of the Grand Lodge.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is bv Brother Reverend
C. C. Woods. In his Introduction he refers, am~ng other things, to
the subject of "Advertising Our Order," very properly, in our opinion,
taking a strong position against anything along these lines. He speaks
particularly of the permission so often asked for by Lodges in certain
Jurisdictions of attending church in regalia, and while he is himself a
minister he objects seriously to this as an infraction of good taste.
Freemasonry, he truthfully avers, does not need any advertising
methods to advance its standard. It is above all of these modern
methods of attracting attention.
In his report for the current year now before us. he reviews
California Proceedings of 1913 very generously.
He quotes from the address of Past Grand l\Iaster Filmer; he refers
complimentary terms to our Masonic Homes, and our disbursements
111 general along the line of good will.
111

At the election, l\lost Worshipful Tolman \V. Cotton, Vanburen.
'.\Io., was elected Grand Master; Most \Vorshipfnl John R. Parson,
St. Louis, re-elected Gran<l Secretary.

REPORT ON

CORRESPONDE~CE.

SG

MONTANA.
1914.

50th Annual, Butte, September 16-17.
Lodges, 81 ; members, 8,226; gain, 726.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the l\Inst Worshipful Otto F. Wasmansdorff.
Jn the opening portion of his Address, referring to the condition
of Masonry within the Jurisdictioi1. the Grand Master says:
"Throughout our Jurisdiction, peace and harmony prevail. All
are busy promulgating the principks of Masonry within the tyke!
recesses of the Lodge, and by their outward demeanor are c01wincin'..;
the world of the good effects of our philosophy and teachings. Tn the
State material progress has been made. \Vhilc a slig-ht depression in
business activities has been reported in our sister Jurisdictions, l\f on tan a
can rejoice in the continuation of prosperity. Whatever our political
or racial sympathies may be. we will unite in thanks to the Supreme
Being for the fact that. as a nation, we arc at peace with all the
world.
"When the sound of muskdn- reaches U'o from the South and the
roar of cannon on the European- continent is proving to us that man
is but mortal and is swavcd b\- the human emotions of hatred ancl
revenge, we are reminded that :\fasonry teaches us to circumscribe
our passions and commands us to refrain from any violent or contentious altercations with our fellowmen.''
Dispensations to form five new Lodges were granted within the
year.
Cornerstone ceremonies ;vcre held hy the Grand Lodge upon two
occasions, and in other respects the Grand l\f aster was busy with the
affairs of the Grand Lodge throughout the year.
In view of the large territorial dimensions of Montana and the
fact that the Grand Master, at the outset. realized that it would not he
possible for him personally to visit all of the ninety Lodges scattered
throughout the State, he devised a plan to call upon the various Past
Grand Masters residing in the various parts of Montana to visit, as his
proxy, a certain number of Lodges which could com-enicntly he reached
by each Past Grand Master from his pctrticular home.
One of the most interesting features of the a<lministration of
Masonic affairs within the year were these official visits by Past
Grand Masters, whereby every Lodge in the State was officially visited
by the representatives of the Grand ]\faster. creating thereby a vast
amount of l\fasonic zeal and enthusiasm throughout the State.

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Reports of the various Past Grand Masters to the Grand
J\Iaster of their visits form good reading for the outsider, and must
be exceedingly interesting locally.
Jn addition to the regular Report of the Grand ]\[aster. brief Reports
were rendered by the Deputy Grand J\Iaster. the Senior Grand Vlarclen,
and the Junior Grand \Varden. setting forth the matters of a ]\fasonic
nature that had recci,·ccl their personal attention within the year.
From the Report of the Trustees of the ~Iasonic Home. it appears
that the Home is in excellent condition, ancl especial praise is accorded
to the Superintendent, whose management, it is stated, has been ,·cry
successful from the domestic as well as the financial sick.
The Grand Master attended the so-called Conference of Grand
Masters at St. Louis and returnee\ to his Grand Lodge fillccl with
enthusiasm for these meetings, and embodied in his .~ddress· a recom·
mendation that the Grand Lodge proYick for the attendance at any
future meetings of two rcpresentath·es from the Gram! Lodge of
~Iontana.
This recommendation was reported back fa,·orahly hy the
Special Committee to which it was referred, hut after a lengthy discussion the Report of the Committee was laicl on the tabk, which, of
course. had the effect of turning clown the Grand J\faster's suggestion.
Most Worshipful Brother H. S. Hepner, Past Grand ]\faster.
Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence. opposed very
,·igorously the proposition of the Grand Lodge prm·icling for future
representation a~ these Conferences, his idea king that the latent
purpose of these Conferences is the establishment of a General Grand
Lodge, to which he is naturally, and very properly, opposed, and the
Grand Lodge evidently accepted his view of the situation ;111cl ckclinccl
to commit itself to st1pport these Conferences in the future.
One of the pleasing Grand Lodge ceremonies in connection with
the Jurisdiction of l\fontana is the presentation of the "signet ring."
that is, the passing from one Grand Master to another of the signet
ring, which is supposed to symbolize consecration to duty. and is
presented by each Grand Master to his successor. who receives the
ring with full appreciation of the responsibilities which the rmg
symbolizes.
The presentation at this time was made, of course. by the retiring
Grand "!VIastcr. Brother \Vasmansdorff, in well-chosen words. The
ring was recci1,cd by the newly-elected Cran cl ]\faster, Lewis A. Smith
of Butte, who yoicetl his acceptance anti appreciatinn in a fitting and
proper manner.
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master Tf. S.
Hepner, it being, as he states, his "sixth offering."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

87

In the opening paragraphs of his Tntrodnction, we find the foltowing:
"Aside from the guerrilla warfare in J\Iexico, peace again reigns
all over the world; the barking of the Balkan clogs of war ha,- ceased,
and readjustment of boundary tines of nations is tlw only result
achieved from the large loss of life and property; humamty has not
advanced in the least through this strife of arms and we trust that
hereafter no more recourse will be had to the bullet and the bayonet
m settling controversies among nations."
Among the paragraphs of his Conclusion arc the following:
":\midst peace and serenity we commenced the foregoing rc1·iews
and as we write the last 'latest war news' is the constant inquiry of
mankind.
"Pr<ictically the entire continent of Europe, with England thrown
in, and Japan barking at her side, is e'ngaged in a tremendous, awful
and what appears to us a most unholy and uncalled for warfare; the
cause or provocation is veiled in the obscurity of European diplomacy.
"Millions of armed men front each otlwr in hattle arrav and ere
the conflict is over the advance of European ci1·ili7.atio1] will he
retarded by a century.
"We are amazed at the sudden loosening of the hell-hounds of war
on the part of highly civilized nations in this clay and generation. when
all the world has been preaching and teaching peace. and the clove was
rapidly becoming the fayorite national cmhlematicat hire!.
"Retrogression seems to be in the ascenclancv just now."
The mighty change in world affairs is well represented by the
statements found in the beginning and at the close of Brother H epner's
Report. Jn the brief space of a few months invoh-ed in the preparation
of this Report the world had passed from a condition of smiling peace
to the dreadful contortions of horrible and appalling war.
Brother Hcpncr's Report is, as usual. extremely interesting and
made up of well-chosen selections and intelligent and instrncth·e comment.
California, 1913, is considered. Some tine quotations arc made
from the most eloqt1cnt Aclclress of Brother Samuel J\I. Shortridge,
clelivcrecl at the laying of the cornerstone of the ~Iasonic Temple in
San Francisco.
Quotations were also mack from the Annual Address of Grand
~faster Filmer, and the Oration of Brother William Rhodes Hen-cy

is referred to as "eloquent and scholarly," and a liberal quotation
made therefrom.
l\I.'. w:. LEWls A. s~oTH, Butte, Grand Master.
R.'. \V .'. CoRNELn:s fl F.DGES, Jr., fl elcna, Grand Secretary.

REPOR'l' ON CORRIDSPOXDE:'-:CE.
NEBRASKA.

1914.

S7th Annual, Omaha, June 9-10.
Lodges, 255; members, 21,122; net gain, 978.
I

I

:I

The Grand Master, Alpha :VIorgan, presided, and there were
present eleven Grand Officers, twenty-two Past Grand Masters, and
representatives of 240 of the 255 chartered Lodges. There were certainly represented a very high percentage of the chartered Lodges,
which speaks well for the zeal and enthusiasm for the cause of
l\Iasonry that must prevail in this splendid Jurisdiction .
.:\ cbraska is justly proud of its Masonic Home, and the Grand
]\faster refers to the splendid work which the Horne is performing and
voices his appreciation of the service which /s being performed by
the Superintendent and Trustees.
From the Address of the Grand :Master it appears that the year
was one of activity; dispensations to the number of not less than seven
were issued to form new Lodges; cornerstone ceremonies to the number
of eight were performed by the Grand Lodge; several Lodges were
constituted that had at the preceding Annual Communication received
charters; at least one Masonic Hall was dedicated, and a large number
of official visitations were made.
The Grand Master refers feelingly to the death within the year
of one of the Past Grand Masters of the Jurisdiction, Most Worshipful
Samuel \V. Hayes. He passed to his reward on November 15, 1913.
The Grand Master refers in his Address to the request he had
received from the Grand Lodge of Oregon to join in a movement
looking to the formation of a General Grand Lodge. This request
was, in due course, referred to a Special Committee, which rendered
a unanimous Report, which was adopted by the Grand Lodge, declining
the invitation and stating as the conclusion of their Report that the
"Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free
and Accepted Masons of Nebraska is a sovereign body and will never
yield its sovereignty." And yet, these An!lual Conferences of Grand
Masters tend to this very end, and, we believe, there has not yet been
one of these Conferences, after, perhaps, the first one or two, which
were called for an entirely different purpose, that has not had presented a resolution, which resolution has, as a matter of course, in
each instance been turned down, advocating and urging the formation
of such a body,
The Grand Master, in closing his Address, makes use of some
fine phrases in picturing the spirit of Freemasonry. He calls attention

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

9i

usual American and foreign Jurisdictions are reviewed in a concise
and intelligent manner. for in practicing brevity essentials have not
been sacrificed.
California, 1914, is generously redewed. Very liberal quotations are
made from Grand Master Murphcy"s Address. California's generosity
is referred to, as disclosed particularly in the Reports of the various
Boards of Relief, the Employment Bureaus, etc.
M. ·. vV. ·. EDWARD ::vI. SttARING. Trenton. Grand :'>faster.
M.'. \V.'. Tmw B. TowNLlW, Trenton, Grand Secretary.

NEW MEXICO.

1!'14.

27th Annual. Allrnqnerquc. October 19, 20, 21.
Lodges, 41; members, 3,361; net gain, 153.

The Annual Communication was presided over by the :\lost \Vorshipftil ?\ athan Jaffa, Grand Master.
At the Communication fifteen Grand Officers, nine Past Grand
Masters, and representatives of thirty-three of the forty-one chartered
Lodges were present.
The Grand Master reported a number of decisions, which appeared
to be in accordance with the law of the Jurisdiction. decisions of a
local nature, and were all sustained by the Jurisprudence Committee
and the Grand Lodge.
Fraternal recognition was extcndc>d to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands.
A motion to appropriate $500 in aid of the distressed and destitull'
Masons of Belgium was defeated, but in lieu thereof the following
resolution was adopted:

"Be it resolved, That the Grand Secretary be requested to communicate with the constituent Lodges of this Grand Lodge, requesting
each to co-operate in an effort to raise a fund for the relief of all
distressed Masons and their families in the> war zone of Enrope, with
power of the Grand Master to act.''
A resolution that each District Deputy should be furnished with a
cipher to the secret work was proposed but defeated by the Grand
Lodge.

Rl<::PORT ON CORRESPONDEXCE.
The Report on Correspondence was, as has been the case for
several years past. by Brother James H. \Vroth, although he states
tliat he was assisted in hi.s work hy Brother George Clifford.
Brother \V' roth is one of our most capable Masonic reviewers, and
we trust it may not be true, as the Proceedings seem to indicate, that
Brother \Vroth has resigned as Chairman of the Correspondence Committee and will not, therefore, give us any more of his splendid productions.
Brother \Vroth does not hesitate to take the position strongly
against the Oregon sugge.,tion of a Supreme Grand Lodge, his view
heing that it is one of the worst things that could possibly occur. He
does not have much use for identification cards. and holds the opinion,
with plenty oi others, that it is almost one of the landmarks of Masonry
that a Mason has the right to travel an<l to carry the evidence of his
:Masonry in his head and not in his pocketbook.
Brother \V rotb bc:liev<Cs that descent from Scot fr.;h Rite :Masonry
is just as good, so far as establishing a tiilc of regularity in a Grand
Lodge is concerned. as descent from the Grand Lodge of England, or
Treland, or Scotland.
.\Ve may disagree with Brother \Vroth on this subj cct, hut admit
very freely that his ideas upon most suhjcets are very sound. and it
will he a matter of very serious regret if he abandons his position of
Correspondence Committee of his State.
RALEIGH F. HARF., State College, Grand :\faster.
ALPHUs A. KF.F.K. Albuquerque, Grand Secretary.

NEW SOUTH WALES.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
The Grand Lodge of N'ew South \Vales has been only twenty-six
years in existence, yet it has total balances to the credit of the various
Funds of $200,000.

In common with other ;\ustralian Crand Lodges, it has the system
of so-called annuities, which are apportioned to the Orphans of the
Jurisdictions, needy ~fasons, etc., and the cost of administration is
practically nil.
From 1888 to 1914, as shown in one of the Reports in the present
volume, .£90,264 Sterling, equivalent to nearly $450,000, had been
disbursed as charity from the various Funds.
It is customary in practicall~ ;ill of the Australian Jurisdictions
to re-elect the Grand :Master year after year, and as a rule he is some
high functionary of the government, and in most ca:o:cs sent out from
the Home Government in England.
Among the Grand Masters who have served in this J nrisdiction arc
Lord Jersey, Sir Robert Duff, Sir Joseph Abbott, John Remington,
Sir Harry Rosson, l'dontgomery Hamilton and Lord Chalmsford. The
present Grand· :Nfaster, Right Worshipful Brother Chas. lI. Carruthers,
appears to be an exception to the rule and is, we bclic-ve, a bona fide
resident of the Jurisdiction .
There is a Report on Foreign Correspondence, prepared by a
munher of members, which consists of a review in excellent form of
the various Grand Jurisdictions throughout the world.
California, 1913, is gcncro11sly considered. Complimentary reference
is made to the Address of Grand Master Filmer, and a brief resume
made of the Proceedings of that year.
R.". \V.". Bro. CHAS. U. C\RRCTHERS. Sydney, Grand Master.
ARTHUR H. BRAY, Sydney, Grand S!"crctary.

1914.

26th Annual, Sydney. June 24.
Lodges, 225; members. 20,447; gain, 1,749.
In common with all of the Australian Grand Lodges, Communications are held quarterly, and the Proceedings before us cm-er the four
Quarterly Communications ending with June, 1914.
These Communications are devoted principally to the acceptance
and adoption of Reports of the Boards of General Purposes, the balance
sheets of the various Funds, the
of "apologies," in other words,
excuses of those members who arc• unable to he present, brief addresses
from Grand
and records of Ceremoi1ics of Installation.

NEW YORK.

1915.

134th Annual, New York City, May 4.
Lodges, 837; members, 192,463; gain, 6,284 .
The opening pages of the volume of Proceedings of 1915 are
devoted to a discourse by the Grand Master entitled "A Plea for Peace
to Free and Accepted Masons."

100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand i\Iaster, in his Annual Address, pays high tribute to
the fraternal dead within the year, reciting in particular the service
to the Craft of the Right Worshipfnl William J. Duncan, Past Grand
Librarian, who died at the :\fasonic Home at l'tica on May 14, 1914.

so-called prayer is good, and the prayer it,;elf can do no harm to the
individuals uttering it, even if it does not produce any effect towards
ending the war.

The Grand ,\faster sds forth a long list of ceremonies conducted
by the Grand Lodge under his direction within the year; the one event
that stands out most prominently of all being the official visit paid by
the Grand Master, accompanied by a large number of the Officers of
the Grand Lodge, to the Masonic Home at Utica on June 21, being
the Sunday nearest the Festi\·al of St. John the Baptist Day.
One of the grc;1t works of this Jurisdiction is the task of liquidating the indcbtcdl!css outs landing against the vast temple properties in
N' cw York City, and in pursuance of the undertaking which has been
assumed by the Lodges of the Jurisdiction, the so-called redemption
fund contributed in the two preceding years is $428,305.80, of which
more than half was reali%cd in the preceding year.
The great purpose involved in all of these financial transactions
of the Grand Lodge is tlic carrying forward of the stupendous operations
of the Masonic Home at Utica.
The Home now contains nearly 500 adults and children, a larger
munber, we believe than are sheltered in any other Masonic institution
in the world. This institution and the vast establishment at Elizabethtown, Pennsykania, under the care of the Grand Lodge of that State,
we believe, are the largest two Masonic charities in the world.
The Grand Master refers to the war in Europe and to the awful
sacrifices which it involves, and looks forward to the time when the
principles of l\Iasonry will be applied in the dealings of nations one
with another, the same as they are now sllpposed to apply in the
relations of individual l\fasons one with another.
The efforts of not only :Masons but every one interested in the
welfare of humanity should, in his judgment, be addressed towards
the end of bringing about, if possible, an early peace. Under his
directions certain of the Grand Chaplains of the Grand Lodge, composed for use in all of the Lodges of the State, a prayer for peace,
which, if ofttimes repeated in the Lodges by Masons, as expressive
of their yearning for the return of peace and good will among men,
might reach the hearts of those responsible for the awful war.
Personally, we exceedingly doubt if this so-called prayer for
peace will have any material effect upon the belligerent nations of
Europe, neverthckss the principle involved in the preparation of this

101

Dispensations for new Lodges to the number of fifteen were
issued by the Grand l\faster within the year.
At the conclllsion 'of his excellent Address, the Grand Master
states that, having reYiewcd the events and work of the year, he
bespeaks courage on the part of the great Fraternity to go forward to
greater achievements.
He calls attention to the fact that the Fraternity has advanced
substantially in numbers and in moral and spiritual strength. Much,
he states, has been accomplished in the years that have passed, and
expresses the belief that greater work in the future awaits the
industry, vitality and life exemplified by the Fraternity, and urges all
to apply these qualities with "freedom, fervency and zeal with the
satisfied assurances that when night cometh well earned rest will be
the reward."
An examination of the Balance Sheet of the various Funds, which
is presented in the present Report, affords convincing evidence of the
magnificent scale on which the transactions of the Grand Lodge are
conducted.
The total of the various Funds belonging to the Grand Lodge
in properties, cash and securities, amounts to $5,417,528.19. Against this
arc certain liabilities, consisting principally of indebtedness against
the Masonic Temple propc:rties in New York City, but by means oi
the so-called Redemption Fund, now in process of accumulation, .it is
expected that this indebtedness will, in a few years, be liquidated, and
when this takes place the assets belonging to this Jurisdiction will
show an aggregate value of probably not less than $6,000,000.00, from
which one may justly conclude that Masonry in such States as New
York and Pennsylvania is not only a great Fraternal and Beneficent
Organization, but great business organization as well, the business, of
course, being the administration of exalted charity.
The custom in Kew York is to refer legal questions to an official
known as the Judge Advocate. The Judge Advocate acts only in an
advisory capacity, his opinions not to have the force of decisions until
approved by the Grand Master, when they become in effect such decisions. and unless such decisions are finally approved by the Grand
Lodge they do not become hinding upon the Jurisdiction. As a matter
of fact, however, the opinion of the Judge Advocate is usually conclusive on questions of Masonic law, and his Report for the current year
deals, so far as we have been able to discover, with questions of a

102

R'FiPORT O~ CORRESPONDENCE.

Inca! natnrc, and they appilrently rcccin·cl the stamp of apprm·al of
the Grand Lodge.

1'hC' Report 011 Foreign Con-v,prnHlenn· is !11· a c01mnittec of which
.\lo;l \Vorshipfol \Villiam Shcm·cr, Past Cram! iiast<:t', is chairman, am!
he presents a cDndenscd rc\·iew of practically all of the Ankrican
Jurisdictions; and the rc\·iews of foreign Jurisdictions arc mack, we
helicn', by one or two of hi:; ;issociatcs upon the Committee.

In the Introduction to the present Report, the Committee toud1es
npon the origin oi our Crnft. Th('y statC' that the Elistorian mav question some of the legends that are grouped al:out the beginnings- of the
gn:.at Frat<:rnity, nevertheless the fact remains that the Temple of Solomon typified Jehovah and was dedicaterl to H 1.s Holv n;nm<, so :\fasonn·
typifies the soul of the Divine. and glorifies Jel;ovah .. The golde;1
thread of fraternal spirit, they :ciffirm, rnns through all history, through
all the ages and ap11ears and reappears under different names. in diifcrcnt
forms and under different conditions, spirit being eternal and chanrreless. They deduce from these facts the undouhted conclusion that
the sentiment of Masonry has dwelt among all men, in all climes, and in
all ages, althol1gh its stn1ctural form in some of its ceremonies have
reflected the changeful growth of the lmnrnn rnce, !mt the influence
of l\fasonry is the same tod;iy, yesterday. tomorrow and forever.
They draw attention to the circumstance that we, as a young
nation, may possibly have felt this changefol, restless spirit more than
the people of other lands; but affirm that it is to the credit of
1\merican Masons that the ancient Landmarks of the Craft are held
to more strictly and arE" regarded as a more precious inheritance than
possibly is the case in other lands; and the Committee quote the lines
from the Book of Proverbs. "Remoye not the ancient landmarks which
thy fathers have set,'' as a thought \\'hich is ever present in the minds
of American Masons.
The Committee decline for the present to recommend that fraternal
rcco~nition be extended to the so-callccl Grand Lodge of Egypt, t!Jc
app'.1cation for recognition from that Grand Lodge not being accom~
panted .h~ sufficient evidence of stability and ~fasonic charnctcr to justify
recogmt1on.
The application of the so-called Lodge Xationalc Independent and
Regular of France, etc., for recognition is noted, but the Committee
disapproved recognition at present
California, 1914, is briefly considered. Quotations are made from
the Address of Grand ;\foster .'.Iurphey and from the Report of the
Committee on F orcign Correspondence.

::vr:. \V.". G£oHG£ FREJFi:ui of Brooklyn, Grand Master.
;\1.". \V.". EDWARD ;\f. L. EnLERS. Xew York, Grand Secretary.

REPORT

O~

COHRESPONDE:>iCE.

NEW ZEALAND,

1914.

25th Annual, Christ Church, 2\lay 13-14.
Lodges, 198; members. 13,209.
The Proceedings of the Grand Lodge at this Communication were
principally of a routine character.

From an inspection of the Reports of the various Funds, it is
disclosed that this Jurisdiction is relatively om: of the strongest finan~
cially with which we are in correspondence.
There is a \Vidows and Orphans and .\gcd 2\[asons' Fund. exceeding $100,000, and the totals of the various Funds held hy the Grand
Lodge reach an amount equal to at least $150,000.
Some discussion wns occasioned at the opening of the session
hec:rnsc of a bonus of fifty guineas paid by order of the Board of
General Purposes to the Grand Registrar for work in connection with
the revision of the Grand Lodge laws. Some memhers expressed the
ictea that all w~rk done for the Craft should he done gratuitol1sly,
altl1ough the opposite opinion finally prc\·aikd, that the laborer was
worthv of his hire, and that the Grand Registrar should he compensated -for the lal:or involved in connection with the matter. This is
mention<'d simply as an illustration of the thriftv character of the
Jurisdiction. and how expenditures are scrutinized, although it mnst
he stated that, in connection with charitable disbursements, the Grand
Lodge of New Zealand is exceedingly gencrnus, it appearing that
grants from the Benevolent Fund within the year amounted to $2,000
and annuities paid from the \Vidows, Orphans and Aged Masons'
Fund aggregated over $3,000.
The Grand :'\faster calls attention to the demise within the year of
Past Grand }faster Tirother Alfrd H. Burton, who for years had
nccnpicd the position of Chairman of the Correspondence Committee.
It is a peculiar circumstance that the Report on Correspondence for
the current year \\'as twice interrupted, the second time resulting in
an abandonment of the further preparation of the Report for the
current year, by the death within the year of two brothers, who in
succession occupied the position of Chairman. First the death, as
above stated, of Past Grand Master Burton, and, later on, within the
year, the death of Brother \V. H. Monro, who undertook to complete
the work, ;ind after making certain progress therein, died sudclcnly
June 20, 1914.

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON

CORRf~SPONDEXCK

105

The Report, in its incomplete form, is printed with the Proceedings,
although California does not find a place in the Report, and evidently
had not been reached by eithe>r of the Clrnirnwn while they were
serving on the Committee.

The Grand :">.foster enjoyed the social side of tlw St. Louis Conference and expresses the grntilication which he felt, in that the Grarnl
Lodge of North Carolina was called upon to furnish a "team" to
present before the Conference of Grand l\fasters an <:xemplification of
the Third Degree.

One of the matters that entailed some earnest discussion was a
proposition to establish the Grand Lodge permanently at vVellington.
and owing to the opposition which the proposition encountered, the
motion to establish the Gram! Lodge in tk1t city was withdrawn, without
action being taken on the resolution.

The year preceding was one of activity. Dispensations were
granted to form thirteen new Lodges. X umcrous special dispensations
were issued and four so~called decisions on local Masonic law were
rendered.

Four new Lodges were constituted within the preceding };ear.
In the printed Proceedings arc published three Lectures hy Official
Grand Lecturers that are well worthy of perusal. The :-;ubjccts were.
severally, "Our Brethren of Old," "Lessons of the First Degree," and
"The :!\fission of :l\fasonry."

At the election of Grand Officers. John J. Don~all. Christ Church.
was chosen Cram! Master; Malcolm Niccol. Christ Church, Crand
Secretary.

NORTH CAROLINA.
1915.

128th Annual, Raleigh, January 19.
Lodges, 421; members, 23,969; gain, 1,090.
The Annual Communication was presided over by ?lfost vVorshipfitl
John D. Alderman, Grand :\faster.
At the outset of his i\ddress, the Grand Master refers to the awful
conditions prevailing in Europe among the warring nations. and voices
the sentiment, so common among our thoughtful people, that such
conditions of barbarism as now prevail upon the continent of Europe
ought to be impossible in this day of high ideals and civilization.
He contrasts the conditions prevailing in Europe with our lot in
this good land, where it is possible to meet in peace and comfort,
where we are not forced to face the carnage of battle, but are permitted
to enjoy the blessings of home with the opportunities of fraternal and
mental development and growth.
The Grand 1\faster refers to the invitations received by him to
attend the meeting of the vVashington :Memorial Association, also the
Conferences of Grand Masters.

The Grand Master refers particularly to the :\fasonic and Eastern
Star Home for Aged Masons and to the Oxford Orphan Asylum. which
are considered the "Jewels" of North Carolina Masonry. The Oxford
Orphan Asylum, in particular, is one of the finest institutions of this
character in America. It has been in existence about forty years. It
has afforded home and training to more than fonr thousand orphan
children in the forty years of its existence, and has now under its
care nearly four hundred orphans, who are receiving not only the
ordinary grammar and high school education, but training in manual
arts, etc., whereby they become well equipped to undertake the hattk of
life and to become useful and influential mcmhrrs of that commonwealth.
The outstanding feature of the year in this Jurisdiction was the
celebration of the Festival of St. John the Baptist, held at the Oxford
Home on Tune 24. This great event was attended by a large concurrence of !lfasons gathered from the four corners of the State. A
large number of Grand Officers were present, including two Past
Grand Masters; a Past Grand Master's jewel was presented to Past
Grand Master vVorshipful John :Jicl10ls, who was, in a srnsc, the
founder of the Home.
The address upon this occasion delivered by Hon. J. C. Kittrell,
is one of the finest pieces of :">.fasonic literature that can he found in the
Grand Lodge Proceedings of the year.
The central theme of the address was the "Cc,nscrvation of Childhood," and the masterful presentation of this supremdy vital subject
by the orator is of intense interest and should he read by every one·
interested in the subject of childhood.
The Grand Orator, Rrother R. C. Dunn, delivered the Annual
Address on what )dasonry is. The oration was received with extravagant enthusiasm by the Grand Lodge. It was declared to be one of
the finest orations cv<?r delivered before the Grand Lodge and was,
by unanimo1:s vote, ordered printed in the Proceedings, and the thanks

JOG

REPOHT ON'

CORRT~SPON'DE!\CE.

of the Gra11d Lodge we're. hy a rising vote. rnurncrl to the rlistingtiished
Orator.
The Reports of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer afford
com·incing evidence of the prosperity of ::\Iasonry in North Carolina.
and these, together with the Reports of the Committees on the Home
and Orphanage, proYC'. beyond peradventure of doubt. that Americ:m
::\l:t5miry may \n·ll lie proud of the Juri:'diction of North Carolina.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is for the nineteenth time
from the able John A.. Collins, Past Grand :\laster.
In his Introduction, he draws attention to the fact that the :\fason
of today is learning that his first duty is to git,c, to give personal
obedience to the tenets of
; to give good counsel to the
erring; sympath)' to the sorrowing; cncourai;cmc!lt to the despondent.
am! substantial relief to the needy, without expectation or hope of
reward, except that \\'hich comes from the self-conscio11sness of duty
well done.
It is nnqucstionably true that g-oocl is measured not by what one
gets. but by what one
· th:1t one is raised by raising other>, and
that all de,·clopment of character is from 16thin, outward.
Jn Brother Collins' review, California. 1913, is fraternally considered. l\foch is found worthy of praise in the splendid .\Iasonic
activities of Gran<\ "!VIaster Filmer. He described the Address of
Grand l\.Iaster Filmer as a fine presentation of the work accomplished
in his administration and he quotes Brother Filmer's exonlinm, which
he describes as exhibiting sentiments of triumph ;ind grandeur. He also
praises the good work done hy the Trustees of the new ::\fasonic
m San Francisco.

He refers to the habitual generosity oi California, as shown in
her :Masonic Homes. and in keeping with this generosity, he refers tn

the contribution of $10,000 for tbc relief of t!1c sufferers of the Ohio
floods.
P. HoBGoOD. Jr., Grcrnshorough. Grand .\faster.
Right \Yorshipful JoH>r C. Dru:\\'RY. Raleigh, Grand Secretary.
PRANK

RllJPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

loi

NORTH DAKOTA.

1914.
25th Annual, Fargo, June 16.
Lodges. 103; members, 9,130: gain, 465.
The Grand .\laster. 'Valter L. \Villiamson, presided in the Grand
East, and there were present fifteen Grand Officers, twelve Past
Graml :-rasters, and representatives of 95 oi the 103 chartered Lodges.

A very sad en'nt occurred just a few days prior to the meeting
of the Grand Lodge, in that the .Senior Gram! \Varden, Brother \Villiam
Spragues, was summoned hy the Supreme Grand :\faster to the Celestial
Lodge above.
In his Address, the Grand .Hasler refers at le11gth to visitations
made by him to other Grand Lodge;;, the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania
being· one of the Grand Bodies that he was privileged to visit, a !so the
Grand Lodge of i\.Iassnclrnsetts. and he was fortm1ate, also, in being
able to attend the :\unual ::\ieeting of the George YV ;ishington Memorial
Association. He also attended the Cnnfcrences of Crand :'.\Iasters held
in St. Louis in l\fay. and he statc>s that he w:is nn all of these oceasions ·
rcceh·ed with the utmost cordiality. and that the meetings were sonrces
of great profit and enjoyment to him.

The Grand .:\faster mentions the circl'lnstance that on June 30,
1913, h;c received a communication under the seal of the Grand Lodge
of Oregon, signed hr the Grand l\Iaster, and attested by the Grand
Secretan-. rclatfre to the formation of a General Grand Lodge. He
states in h;, .\rlrlress that he is nnt in sym 1iathy with the project. and
adds that the Confe!'l'nc<-s nf Grand :\Ja,,ters l1a\·e uniformly discredited
this idea. whid1 action has met his appro,·al. Subsequently the Grand
Lodge adopted a resolution stating that it wa-: opposer! to any propositi<"u looking toward the formation of a General Grand Lodge.
The Grand l\Taster sets forth his Masonic activities within the
year, consisting of the issuance of several dispensations to form new
Lo<lges. the constitution of Lodges which had received charters at the
previous Annual Communication. the placing of cornerstones
public
lmildings. official yisitations to Subordinate Lodges, official rulings,
etc .. all of which made a yl'ar of marked actiYity.

:\t the Conclusion of hi:< Addr<.'so< he expn::sscd his great appreciation of the courtesies extended to him and stated that the year, while
one of st remwus activit) had yet been iilled \\'ith especial joy and
happiness.

-------·----------

"'
.(:'.

108

REPORT ON CORRESPOl'\DENCE.

He particularly commencls the efficient service and marked ability
of Right vVorshipful Brother Walter L. Stockwell, the Grand Secretar):.
The Thompson l\Iemorial Prize in Oratorv in mcmorv of the late
Frank ]. Thompson, Grand Secretary, consis~ing of a •gold watch.
;rn·ankd to contestants from the various educational institutions of the
State, was reported by the Committee as having been won by a young
man student in the State University. The Oration is printed in the
Volume of Proceedings, and, as wc remarked in one of our prc\·iom
Reports, this seems to be an ockl function fo,- a l\Iasonic Grand Lodge.
The Report shows that the Grand Lodge has erected and furnished
a cottage with sixteen heels at the State Tubercular Sanitarit~m. the
ladies of the Eastern Star participating in the project to the extent
of providing a substantial portion of the furnishings. This is a form
of charitable activity o~ the part of the Grand Lodge that is surely
wise and commendable, and, through rules that have formed a part
of the agTeement between the Grand Lodge and the State Board of
Control. Masonic patients, under certain conditions, arc admitted.
An Address was delivered by I\lost \Vorshipful Brother Grant S.
Hagar. Past Grand Master, the theme being "The- Big Brother Movement," the central thought being that Masons should play the role of
"Big Brother" to the young boys, particularly those to whom are
denied the influence of a good home.
The Report 011 Foreign Correspondence comes, as usual, from the
pen of Brother James Foley, Past Grand Master. The topical plan
heretofore followed by him has been abanclcmccl, and his reports now
are made, in harmony with the usual practice in other J urisclictiems,
by States.
His Report is a concise review of most of the American J urisclictions, although California is not included.
FR,\ NK H. SI%\GUE, Grafton, elected Grand ~laster.
\VALTER L. STOCKWELL. Fargo, re-elected Grand Secretary.
NOVA SCOTIA.

1914.

49th A1mual, llalifax, Jvne 10.
Lodgcs, 72; members, 6.758; nd gain, 230.
:\t this Communication twenty-one Grand Officers, four Past
Cranrl .:\Iasters, and the reprcsC'ntatives of twenty-four chartered Lodges
were present.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

109

As is the usual custom in this J uriscliction, immediately after the
opening exercises of the Grand Lodge, the Body adjourned to listen to
the Annual Sermon, which, in this instance, was preached by the
Grand Chaplain, William Dri ffilcl. This may be all right in Nova
Scotia; it probably is; in fact, in nearly all oi the Canadian J urisclictions
it is an ordinary occurrence for Lodges to attend church in reg·alia,
and, therefore, it does not seem particularly out of place for the Grand
Lodge to adjourn after the formal opening to listen to a sermon from
a member of the clergy of the High Church of England; yet, :Masonry
is supposed to assemble upon its broad pbtform the members of all
creeds and denominations, the only religious requirement being belief
in the Supreme Being, and, to our mind, then: is a distinct impropriety
in expecting Masons of the Hebrew faith. for instance, to attend a
Church of England service; and it is difficult, also, to banish the
thought that the purpose of these chmch services is not so much a
sincere desire to praise God as through pomp and ceremony, to be
seen and admired of men.
Notwithstanding slight differences of o•Jmion which we may hold
with Nova Scotia upon what are probably unimportant matters, it
nevertheless is true that Nova Scotia is a splendid Ju riscliction and
1s doing magnificent Masonic work.
This Jurisdiction has a I\lasonic Hom2 that is a matter of pride
and delight to the members, and all of the obligations of Masonic duty
are recognized and discharged in this J uriscliction in an exceedingly
capable manner.
In his Address the Grand Master. under the heading of "Fraternal
Dead," mentions the passing onward on February 11, 1914, of l\fost
Worshipful Brother John W. Rhulancl, who was one of the early
Grand Masters of the Jurisdiction. Mention is also made of the death
of Most Worshipful Brother Thomas Trenamen, who died in the city
of Halifax on April 27 of the current year.
In reading Grand Lodge Reports one often encounters odd and
peculiar "decisions," or decisions touching conditions brought about
through the strides of modern science. For instance, in this J uriscliction
a question of visible physical defect was presented to the Grand
.:\!laster for decision, something as follows: A prospective applicant
had lost the fleshy part of his nose throngh the unskillful handling in
some manner of the so-called "X-ray," and this physical defect had
been partially remedied throngh an artiticial nose that ordinarily was
attached to the face in a manner similar to the method employed in
affixing spectacles, hy hands passing o\"l'r the ears. The Grand Master
was inclined. from a superlicial consideration of the case, to declare

lJO

RJ<JPORT ON CORRESPO:'.':DENCK

the applicant ineligible because the metal bands ov..:r the cars pre\·entcd
his being "properly prepared," hut after giving the subject fuller consideration and ascertaining that the artificial nose could he removed
during the ceremony of initiation. the Grand Master decided that the
<ipplicant wa~ not physically disqualified, and permitted acceptance of
his petition. The Grand ::\laster's ruling was sustained hy the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence is hy the exceedingly capahle Grand Secretary, Right Worshipful Thomas Mowbray.
Brother :Yfowhray reviews California, 1913. in a kindly and fraternal
spmt. He commended the l:nulal)le actil·ity of Grand :\laster Filmer.
especially in the matter of official visitatiom: he speaks in complimentary terms of our :\Iasonic Homes, aml otherwise finds much to
praise in our Marnnic activities.
\Ve arc not a little surprised to find in the Introductory Remarks.
which preceded his regular Report. that he views with complacency the
suggestion which has been ad,·anced in the Annnal Conferences of
Grand :'\fosters looking to the formation of a General Grand Lodge to
include the Jurisdictions of the L:nitcd States and the British possessions
in America. HC' expresses the belief that such an organization would
accomplish much toward that great unity toward which we are all
striving.
Tn our mind, however, that great unih· can better he achieved by
many. each sovereign in itself, yet all working, each in its own independent sphere, toward the same great ends.
M..'. \V.'. WM. !l'f!lm'oRD CHRISTIE, \Vindsor, Grand Master.
R.'. \V.'. THOS. MownRAY, Halifax. re-elected Grand ·"""""'Ptc1rv

OHIO.

1914.
10.'ith Annual. Columbus, October 21.
Lodges, 541; members, 96.075; gain, 5.409.
The Grand ~laster, Charles J. Pretzman, presided. ~\II of the
Grand Officers wcTc in attendance uµon the Annual Communication.
and out oi the 541 chartered Lodges 534 were represented. Only seven
out of the large number of chartered Lodges were unrepresented. In
the percentage of Lodges represented at an Annual Communication
out of the total, we believe tl1is is the world's record.

REPORT OK CORIUJSPONDE:XCE.

l ll

I mmctliately after the opening of the Grand Lodge the Grand
Secretary, at the request of the Grand :\faster. read a copy of a
circular letter sent out by the Grand :\I aster oi X ew York to the
Subordinate Lodges of that Jurisdiction recommending a form of
prayer to be offered np to Almighty God th<!t the war in Europe, with
its awful tragedies, might cease. Tt is staled that, while this prayer
was not sent to the Ohio Jurisdiction, but was intended simply for the
Subordinate Lodges of N cw York, yet the Grand ]\faster of Ohio
belie vet! this petition to 1he Throne of Grace to he appropriate for
I\fasons everywhere.
Personally, we arc not particularly impreo;sed with these madc-tciordcr prayers. Perhaps the real bcndit of prayer is the reflex influence
which prayer is supposed to have upon tlw petitioner himself; and
prayers. printed on a hanclhill, and repeated. parrot-like. by individuals
who have had nothing to do with their composition. arc, in our opinion,
ahont as efficacious as would be phonographic records nm on a talking
machine, and, no doubt, just as 1110,·ing at the Throne of Grace.
From the Grand ]\laster's .\ddrcss we learn that the preceding year
had hce!l, from a matcri;il st;,rnlpoint at kast. the most prosperous one
ill the history of the Grand Lodge.
Five new
were granted <b;pens:itions; six Lodges that had
previously received charters were duly constitntcd; thirteen Lodge
rooms were ·dedicated. and cornerstones were placed to eight public
huildings.
An evidence of the high ideals held by the :\Iasons of Ohio is
found in the fact that more than two-third" of the contributions that
were made to Ohio l\fasonry in aid of the flood sufferers in that
State two years ago were returned to tl1e donors. Less than one-third
oi the rnntributions sufficed to relieve the distress, and the unused
portion was returned pro rata lo the givers.
The Grand Master received an i1witation from the Grand Lodge of
Canada. in the Province of Ontario, lo attend a Masonic Festival in
cC'lebration of the one hundred years of peace between Great Britain
and America. The Grand Master was unable to attend in person, but
he sent as his proxy Past Grand !\faster \Vorshipful Brother \Villiam
FL Mellish.
Brother Mellish rendered to the Grand Lodge a Report of his
mission, from a perusal of which it is apparent that Ohio was capably
r<'presented at that important function.
An exceedingly pleasant incident occurred at a session of the
Grand Lodge in a visitation to the Grand Lodge of children from the

112

RJ<~PORT

ON CORRESPONDE::-\CE.

Masonic Home. Some forty of the children from the Ohio Masonic
Home, in charge of Superintendent Philip Dorn and his wife, were
introduced, and took possession of ·the platform and presented to
the Grand Lodge heautifol aud appropriate songs, calisthenic exercises
and tableau showing their successful training and zeal.
A resolution was adopted to the effect that the Grand Lodge of
Ohio wollld enter into any kind of co-operation with other Grand
.l\fasonic Bodies looking to organized Masonic relief that no doubt
will be necessary to the war sufferers in Europe after the close of the
stupendous tragedy now being enacted.

HEPORT ON" CORHrJSPONDJ<JN"CE.

object of those who are so actil·cly athocating ;\mrnal Conferences of
Grand Masters.

He cannot abide the boldness with which the Grand Orient of
Italy continues to establish Lodges in American Grand Jurisdictions,
the last one established being in Illinois, anJ at the same time asking
American Grand Jurisdictions to recogniz~ it as a member of the
family of Sovereign Grand Lodges .of Ancient Craft :'.\fasonry .
M.'. V<f,', Bro. GEORGE L. MAHsIBLL, Dayton, Crand Master.

R.'.

w:. Bro. J. H. B11011wELL, Cincinnati, re-elected Grand $ccrc-

tary.
One of the outstanding features of this magnificent Jurisdiction is
its Masonic Home, where there are now sheltered 186 residents. This
Home has always been upon a high level of efficiency, and its benevolent work of relief is carried forward in a manner to reflect great
credit upon the Jurisdiction and upon the Trustees and Managers of
the Home.

1915.

Brother Past Grand :VIaster \Villiams presented his fourth Review
of the Proceedings of other todges.

7th Annual, Guthrie, February 16. 17, 18.
Lodges, 451 ; members, 25,382; gain. 2,029.

California, 1913, is fraternally considered. The Address of Grand
Master :'.\Iurphey is referred to in terms of praise and quotations are
made therefrom.

The J\fost \Vorshipfol William Perry Freeman, Grand :Vfaster,
presided.

The Masonic rlomes of California and the work they are accomplishing come in for a measure of commendation, and reference is
made to the magnificent Oration of Brother \Villiam Rhodes Hervey.

In his Conclusion he notes that there is a continued agitation of
the liquor question, with the assumption of authority of many Grand
Lodges to legislate upon the subject; he observes a perceptible leveling
down on the strict physical requirements heretofore existing in several
of the Grand Lodges.
From reading the Reports he observes the large increase in nmnbers
added to the Masonic membership of our country, and from the
Addresses of Grand Masters he deduces the conclusion that this increase
in membership does not carry with it a lowering of the standard of
character demanded of entrants.
He refers to the proposition of a General Grand Lodge by the
brethren of Oregon and notes with pleasure that practically every
other Grand Lodge to which the proposition has been addressed has
emphatically expressed its disapproval, but he states that, notwithstanding the denials that there is any purpose to organize a National
Grand Lodge. it seems to be gcnetally believed that this is the ultimate

I

OKLAHOMA.

····-·-----·----------·---

The Grand Lodge commenced its Annual Communication at 7 :30
o'clock in the eyening, instead of 10 :00 o'clock in the morning, as it
previously had done, and the innovation was referred to as successful,
as it permitted the uninterrupted hearing of the Addresses of the Grand
Master and Grand Orator.
In the opening paragraphs of the Grand Master's Address he
refers to the war in Europe, contrasting it with the conditions that
exist in America and setting forth the mission of Masonry in the
following language:
"Brethren, we should give thanks to the Infinite and Eternal
Father that peace reigns in our own country, and pray for the final
triumph of the true principles of Freemasonrv in all lands and among
all peoples. \Vhile the greatest and most ·uncalled-for useless and
senseless war in the history of the world is devastating Europe, we
are at peace, because we, as a nation, are putting into practice, as far as
human endeavor can do, the principles of justice between man and
man, and between nation and nation. Because this principle is not
put into practice, and because of greed, ambition, hate, envy and the
principle that might makes right. this fearful war is making charnel
houses of once peaceful and prosperous countries. If the calm, peaceful
utterances of Masonry, that 'all men are brethren, and that God is
the Father of all,' were listened to and heeded, this blot on civilization
would not have been made. Against wrong, war, strife, discord and
injustice we must fight until they shall be no more. A very eminent

114

REPOH'J' ON CORRESPO:\'DE:'\CE.
HEPORT ON CORRESPONDE:\CE.

7\fasonic author was a:;ked once wllC'thcr 7\fasonry would live always.
He answered: ':\o. arnl more than this I will tell you when :VIasonry
will die. \Vhcn there shall he no worshippers oi idols left-when there
•;hall be
slanclcrers left-when there shall he no liars leit-whcn
there
be no backbiters Jefj_,,·hrn there shall be no
of the poor left-when there shall he no drunkards kft-ayc,
up all in a word, when there shall he no sinners left; when every
shall how, ;md every tongue confess, then, and not until then. will
::dasonry be no more.' He might have added, 'and when they shall
bc·at their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks;
when nation ;;hall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they
learn war any morE'.' ''
That the Grand Jurisdiction of Oklahoma is a
one may be
contained in the Grand :\laster's Report;
j mlged from certain
for instance, sessions of the Grand Lodge wne held for the purpose
of constituting ten new Lodges that received charters at the preceding
_\nnual Communication; dispensations were granted to form eight new
Lodges;
Communications of the Grand Lodge to the number
of four were presided over in person by the Grand :Vlaster for the
placing of corner~tones, and commissions were issued hy the Grand
7\[ aster in fonr other instances for the same purpose; two 1\[asonic
halls wen' dedicated, and a program of visitations by the Grand Master
w<is carried through, which permitted him, through general meetings
to which a large number of surrounding Lodges were invite(!, to visit
350 Subordinate Lodges in the Jurisdiction, a large percentage of the
entire number.
The Grand :Vfaster, in his Address, speaks of the Masonic Home,
and states that he is glad to say that it is in S[llcnclid condition, under
good management and that it is folfilling its functions of relief and
charity in a manner to reflect credit npon th<.: J misdiction.
The Gram! 7\faster states that the so-called :\ew Jersey incident,
wherchy the Jmisdiction of Oklahoma suspernled relations with New
Jersey, had b('Cll a(Ijustcd in an amicable :tianncr am! that relations
with :\cw J crsey had he:en rc-establisllC'd.
The Gram! 7\Iaster refers to the application of the new Grand
Lodge of France for recognition, but on account of the outbreak of
the war in Europe he states that he was unable to carry forward his
investigations concerning the character of the alleged Grand Lodge,
and therefore he was unable to dcciclc the ql1estion. and the applirntion
for recognition is held in ;1beya11ce.
A certain number of decisions explanatory of the law of the
Jurisdiction were rendered and, being in acc·orda;1ee with the law of
Oklahoma, were sustained.

] (,"j

The Grand Master refers to his atternlance upon the Conference
of Grand Masters hc·ld at St. Louis. The Conference was, in the
opinion of Grand 7\Taster Freeman. a social success, but evidently of
no particular or practical value otherwise.
In conclusion, the Grand 1Iaster has this to say:
"_\"ow, hrcthren. hefore I close permit me to say that as 7\fas'?nry
stands for peace, let ns. as hccomes .its votaries. nphold mir patriotic
and God-fearin11; Pre:;idcnt. who. hy !us teachmgs of morality and. equal
justice to all, is endeavoring to bring peace. to a bleedmg contment;
and let us, Ji,· prcccj)t and example, do all 111 our power ~o mamtam
it always within tht; borders of our own ~!ear country ancl p1 0111; ?Wll
v1c1mtv. :Ylasonrv is
to slavery m
form. 1 he m11!1ons
of men and bearcllcss
that are fighting
dying in the trenclws
of Belgium, France. Gennany. Russia ;md A~tstri;~, arc but slaves to
militarism. The virile manhood of Europe 1s bemg
by the
million. God
knows what the outcome will he.
ho[le ~ncl
pray that from
awful hapt!sm of bloc~(! and tears
suffcrmg
a new world will be born in wluch there will be no more ':ar .. and no
more widows and (H[Jhans made to satisfy tl;t; passions, prc3u_cl1ccs <llld
jealousies of avarice. greed and unh'!ly amb1t1011., \Vhcn pertect p~acc
and
freedom come to mankmd. then will all tears be wiped
The Report on Foreign Corresponclcnc~ is hy Past Grand 7\!aster
Thomas C. Humphry.
He
in a painstaking and careful manner the Proceedings
of the usual American and foreign Jurisdictions. California. 1913, is
courteously comiderecl, with liberal quotations from the Address of
Grand Master Filmer and reference to Reports of certain Committees.
In his Conclusion, Brother Humphry gives expression to some
good ideas, as follows :

"In many Jurisdictions. we note with pl~asurc: that an effort_ ha'
been made to curb or suppress so mueh publtctty p;iven by membe1 s o!
constituent Lodges to the busmcss transacted m the Lodge. The
outside world should not kliow who petitions tl:e. Lodge !or membership, nor the result of the ballot on su~h pet1t1.011s .. VY e. als<? note
with pleasure that there Ins hecn a growmg sentiment agamst mtemperance, and a growing sentiment requiring Masons to be sober men.
"Thirtv-five or forty years ago. when saloons were all over the
States. it \1,as no uncommon thing to sec a saloonk~eper on~ ,of the
leading
of the Lodge· now a saloonkeeper ts not eligible to
membership
cannot be
a :\faso11.
"The trend of sentiment is towanls gi,·ing ~onstitucnt i;,od~es
authoritv to deal with other. Lodges on. t)"le s11b3_ect o~ conterr~ng
-ll\· courtesy am! agreemg on a d1ns1011 of tees without gomg
Cram! Master or Grand L(j(lge in the matter."
7\I.'. \V.'. :\L,I EH Er.us J\.fo'lw>NEY. Okhhoma City. Grand Master

;-.r.-. \V.'. \\'JLLIAM M. AxnEHSON, Oklahoma City, Craml Secretary.

llG

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDEXCE.
OREGON.
1915.

65th Annual, Portland. June 16, 17, 18.
Lodges. 145; members, 14.214; net gain, 954.
Grand Master \Villiam C. Bristol presented an aggressiye Report,
made np, very largely, of recommendations. either to straighten out
lax or irregular practices of Subordinate LOllgcs or to create new
regulations looking to Masonic education. general enlightenment, etc.,
and then, finally, at the close of his Address. after recommending afl
kinds of legislation and regulation, he deplores the fact that there has
been in times past altogether too much legislation.
IIc plunges into the matter of "war relief" as something that
would need to be taken up by Masonic Bodies generally, because of
conditions growing out of the strife in Europe, without, apparently,
stopping to give consideration to the announcements from the leading
belligerent countries on the continent of Europe, and Masonic Officials
there, that they neither need nor desire interference ;:ilong these lines
from America or elsewhere at the present frne.
The Grand J\Iaster is distressed hecawc of the apparent lack of
"l\Iasonic education." vVe do not know to ju-;t what extent acquaintance
with Masonic lore is necessary in order to practice Ma sonic precepts,
but the Masonic tenets of "brotherly love, rdid and truth" seem, in
most instances, heretofore to have been fairly well practiced by the
rank and file of Masonry, without any great amount of familiarity
with the lectures of Preston. or Krause, or Oliver, or Pike, or other
learned pundits of the past.
One dispensation was granted for a new Lodge and one charter
of an old Lodge was revoked.
Reference is made to the death within the year of ~'dost \Vorshipful
Past Grand Master John McCrakcn, in whose memory, later on at
this Communication, a memorial was presented.

No decisions upon Masonic law appear to have been called for.
During the Communication of the Gnnd Lodge a delegation of
"sisters," headed hy the "Gram! l\latron," from the Order of the
Eastern Star, which happened to be in 'ession at the time, was
received and entertained with appropriate remarks pro and con, and
then. to make the incident quite complete, a Committee of the Grand
Lodge, duly appointee\, returned the visit to the "sisters" of the
Eastern Star, which was, of course, riuite proper and formal, and all

117

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

of which is recorded at length in the Proceedings, and all of which.
it seems to our unregenerate, masculine mirnl, is a lot of child's play.
In addition to the exchange of visitations mentioned above, there
was a visit to the Grand Lodge of the Granrl High Priest of the Grand
Chapter of Oregon and the Grand Commander of Knights Templar,
which events are also duly recorded in th-: Proceedings. and all of
which, it strikes us. is improper in a Grand Lodge of Masons, which
is a Sovereign Body. with neither off-shoots nor appendages. of any
kind whatever· and in our judgment, it is just as inappropriate for
a "High Prie~t" ;r a "Grand Commander" to be receive~ in a
Sovereign Grand Lodge of J\Iastcr l\f a sons as it is to receive the
"Grand 1Iatron" or the "Grand Patron" of the Order of the East~rn
Star. It is fitting and proper for a Grand Lodge of Masons to recel\'c
a Grand l\Iaster of a sister Jurisdiction-that is a courtesy extended hy
one sovereign to another so\·ercign; but to receive "Grand Matron:"
or "Grand Patrons," or "High Priests," or "Grand Commanders" is,
in our opinion, belittling to a Grand Lodge ;,nd out of order.
On the second day of the session an inte~esting and thoughtful
Address by the Right \Vorshipful Grand Orator, Brother Wm. J.
Kerr. was delivered. \Vhat l\Iasonry stands for sec:med to be the
central theme of his discourse, and he developed the idea of the ~rue
spirit of l\Iasonry in its aclrncacy nf high irlcals, manhood, etc., m a
strong and masterful manner.
At the conclusion of his :\cl<lrc". the Crane\ Lodge. by a rising
vote, extended to him an expression of its appreciation and thanks.
The matter of an official key is troubling this Jurisdiction, and
even after the subject was considered at this Communication it is still
left in a somewhat unsettled and chaotic condition. One of the
undoubted truths enunciated by the Grand l\1astcr, in . his Add:ess,
was that a kev or cipher of any description is a destructive, nefarious,
vicious thing,. violative of a Mason's obligation and designed t~ pl.ace
J\Iasonry on a plane with modern imitators of our ancient Instttut101:,
whose mvsteries are confided only to faithful breasts and are commumcated only from "mouth to ear."
In the morning session of the third day, \Vorshipinl Brother
"\J"e orae E Cliambcrlain l:nitcd States Senator, representing the Most
\Vorshipful Grand Lodge,; of England a111l \Ve't V1rg1111'.t. was 111troduccd and wekumecl by the Grand ",fa,ter. 'l'lk <hst1ngn1shecl brother
rcspumkd with appropriate remarks.
b

•

(

,

.

•

.

•

A vote of appreciation of the services of retiring Crane\ :Master
Bristol was unanimously adopted by the Cram! Lodge.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCK

RJ:<JPORT ON COHRESPONDE?\CE.

1\ scm,ible mo1·e \\'as made by the introduction of a proposed
amendment to the constitution permitti11:3 the advancement of an
Entered Apprentice \\'ho had receiYcd his fint degree, notwithstanding
the fact that after having received this degree he may have met with
a serious acci(knt. im·olving. perhaps. the amputation of a leg. Among
the pnwisions, also, of the proposed am·~ndrnent. which went o\·cr
for action to the next Annual Comrnl1nication, touching physical defects,
1s one as foJlows:

On St. John the Evangelist's Day. at which time the installation
of Officers took place, the Grand :'<.Iastt'r rendcrecl "hat is known as
his Annual Address. He called attention at the beginning of his
A(klr<"ss this year to the fact that the }'l'ar before (this being his
second term) he told the brethren that "Scrz·icc" is the operati,·c worcl
governing a Grand .'.\faster. and llC' states th,1l this has been the: keynote
of his administrntion.

The candidatt' shall "possess the physical ability to conform s11bto, am! he instructed in, and giv.; in;;tructions in, the arts
and mysteries ()f
The wc•rd "substantially" in this
n·.solutkn1 is. in our opinion. a good on>C. and po"esscs sufficient
elasticity to kt in a good man, en·n ii he does nnt happen to he an
. \polio-Belvedere.

H<' stated that the l\fasonic year. which c•rnled at high twelve
on that day, had bct'll one of incessant scrdcc and labor. 1k stated
that no unfinished husiness of an aclminis:rati1·c character remained:
and he voiced the expect;:ition that the year to come wonlr\ he criually
as fruitful, so far as results nf n high ::'l.fosonic charact..:r in Pennsylvania arc concerned .

118

The Report on
Correspondence is rircsented hy Past
Grand ).faster Dad(! P. l\fasnn. His report is an excclknt revkw of the
Yarious Crand Jnrisdiclions. He gi1"es foll ;md fratc-rnal comi<lcration
to California, 1914. The address of Grand }faster l\forphey is qnoled
from with approval, and the Oration of Brother \Villiam IL \Vaste is
characterized a:> a prodnction whicb appc;ded to 1he brethren as "comin:~
clir('ct from the heart."

He issued an extremely limitc(l mm1lwr

PENNSYLVANIA.

1914.
Annual. Philadelphia, December 28.
Lodges, 490: members. 110,620: gam, 5.365.
Quarterly Comumnications arc held by this Jurisdiction in the
months of l\Jarch, Jnne, September and December, am\ then the
_\nnual Cranr:l Communication. at which time installation of Officers
takes place, is held on St. John the E\·angelist's D:;1"

l

;\t the Quarterly Commnnication in Dcc~mher the principal busines.;
of the ye:<r is transacted. and this consists chidly in the acceptance
of the Reports of the various Funds belonging to the Grand Lodge.
with balance sheets. t'te.. and, inasmuch as Pennsyl\·ania is probably
the richest Jurisdiction in the world, the vrescntation of the balance
sheets pcrtaininp; to the Yarions Funds is qllite interesting, even to
outsiders. am! must he a matter of k{'cn interest to members of thi'
Jmisdiction.

so-called ''(·diets," and

in this Jurisdiction an "edict" of the Crand l\[aslcr is law. until or
unkss it is reversed or nnllificcl hy an '\·diet" of some :;ncceedi11g
nn Jnrisprmkncc Committee
Cran<! l\faster. In other words. there
in Pennsylvania and no disappn:JYal by the Crantl LndgC' of the Crand
]\[aster's rulings.
Here is one of his "edicts":

J. l\IlLLl-'.R, Salem, Grand l\laster
J nn:~ F RomxsoN. Portland, re-ckctcd Gr;rnd Secretary

1HI

"Dual membership," said he. "has nev::r hecn sanctioned in this
Jurisdiction and dual office holding in a L()(lgc is equally obj('ctionable.
hence I han: decided that the office of T"nstcc is incompatible with
the office of \Vorshipful l\faster, Senior \Varden. Junior \Varden. Treasnrer. or Secretary." That is not the law in California.

Ik concludes his excellent Address hy dra\\'ing attention to the
fact that the thoughts of today become the lallors of tomorrow. \Ve
look forward, for instance. to the coming year for the fruition ol
much that is simply in mind today. He cxprcs:;cd the hope that strictest
adherence to the landmarks will be ohser\'ed: that checrfnl obedience
to Jaw will he followed, and greater efforts will l•c devoted to help
those not
fortunate as ourselves; aml that, in trnth, the cnlti\·ation
and practice of the virtues inculcated hy our fraternity will help t\1
make all the brethren better men and l\Iasom.
The principal thing which strikes one in glancing through the
Pennsylvania Report is the tremendous scale upon which the business
of that J nrisdiction is transacted. The 1abulations of the various
Funds, which aggregate between fonr millions and five millio11s o!
dollars, impress one with the large irnport;rnce of the Masonry of this
J nrisdiction.

I

....______________.........-......_________
,

,

____

120

RJ;JPORT ON CORRJ<JSPO:\'DE:\CJ<J.
.REPORT ON COHRESPONDEXCE.

The :\.Iasonic Home estallli:ohmcnt. for instance, at Elizabethtown,
while still almost in its infancv is n·t in its proportions the most
magnificent institution of the ki~~l on .earth.

In speaking of the Masonic .Home, it . perhaps, is more modern
than any similar cstablishmcnt in our country, awl the primary thought
appears to be in the establishment of the Homes at Elizabethtown to
get away from the "institutional" or "inmat~" idea. This idea, according to our friends in Pennsylvania, is out uf date and antiquated, and
the system which this great Jurisdiction is establishing is the cottage
system, the co1nmunity system, the system which shall carrv out to
its fullest extent the idea of home; a community idea of hc:ine; and
the almost boundless resources of this Jurisdiction render it possible
to carry out this idea to the fullest extent.
The Grand Master particularly urges the making of provisions
in the wills of well-to-do Masons for the expansion of the facilities
and resources of the Home establishment, and in this connection it
might be stated that not less than two magnificent bequests, each of
them amounting to possibly $100,000 or more. came to the Home within
the preceding year.
That the Home is a matter of deep interest to the brethren of this
Jurisdiction may be judged from the number of visitors which the
Horne has received in the brief time that it has been established.
For instance. in 1912, the first year that the Home was open for
visitors, the reg·istered number was 1,109.
In 1913 the number visiting the Home was 9,384, and in 1914, the
year just closed, the number was 16,014, and visitors representing many
foreign countries called and expressed their admiration and delight
at the wonderful achievements along the line of cornmunitv l'ife
established here. Some of the foreign countries represented by visitors
were England, Germany. Scotland and Australia, to say nothing of
visitors from twenty or more States of our Vnion.

The Report on Foreign Correspondenc<'. is from the giited pen of
that ::Vlasonic scholar, \Vorshipful J arnes M. Lamberton of Perseverance
Lodge No. 21. His Reporis arc all replete with instructive comment
. and the one before us has had careful attention and is well worthy the
thoughtful perusal of every Mason interested in current Masonic
activities.
California, 1913. is generously reviewed. Admiration is expressed
for our magnificent Temple, recently completed in San Francisco. He
speaks in words of praise of the benevolent ocpirit of California Masonrv
as exemplified in its Masonic Home;:, and also in the prompt assistanc~

121

sent to the brethren of the flooded distric+s in Ohio; hc regrets his
inability to quote at length from the Oration of Brother William
Rhodes Hervey, which he descr.ibes as an "eloquent Address," and be
otherwise gives expressions of approval of California ::Vfasonry.

J. Hf:NRY \VrLLLUis. Right \Vorshipful Grand l\Iastcr, Philadelphia.
JOHN A. Pr:RRY, Grand Secretary. Philadl'lphia.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

1915.

3rd Annual, Manila, February 2.
Lodges, 5; members, 582;
82.
The Most \Vnrshipful Newton C. Comfort presid<?d.
The Address of the Grand Master. Most \Vorshipful Newton C.
Comfort, is a straight-forward, hw;iness presentation of the condition
and course of Masonry in his Jurisdiction within the preceding yeat.
He states at the opening of his Address that the year has been
a successful one to his Grand Lodge; he states that the condition of
unrest which has prevailed throughout the world because of the
tremendous war in Europe has been felt in the Islands and has affected
the progress of Masonry, as it has had its influence upon business
generally.
This Grand Lodge, having been recently estahlished, this being
practically the second year of its existence, the one feature outstanding
in the Proceedings is the extent to which recognition has been
accorded bv other Grand Jurisdictions of the world. From the Grand
;\faster's Report it appears that thirty-seven ont of the forty-seven cnforty-eight Grand Lodge's of the United States have already extended
formal recognition to the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands and
at least four Grand Jurisdictions outside of the United States liav?
extended recognition. The anticipation is entertained that the next
succeeding year will find practically the entire Masonic world i:1
fraternal relations with the new Grand Lodge,
The Grand Master reports that he has visited each Lodge in the
Jurisdiction at least once, and some of them a number of times.
Dispensations to form two new Lodges were granted, making fiv·~
Lodges now in the Jurisdiction, showing a membership of 582 Masons
and a net increase of 82 in memhership, which is 41 more than the net
increase for the preceding year.

122

REPORT ON CORRESP0i\Dl£i\CE.

This is certainly an cxcclknt showing, in Yiew of t!:c fact 1hat
many Americans who are :'.\Ias011s in the Philippines arc residing
there only temporarily. and consequently there is at all times more or
less of a loss bcca11s(' of :'.\fasons returning lo their homes in .\mcrirn.
There is now in c.ol1rsc of erection in :'.\cfanila a new :'.\fasonic Tcmpk.
towar~s the complct10n uf which C\·ery Mason looks with prid,, and
:nthus1:;sm. \Ve jndgc tlrnt the building will be a conspicucltls one
ll1 th.c city of :.Iarnla and one of ,,·hich the :\fasons will have no cause
to be ashamed.
The Grand Oraiur. Brother George Rogers HarvcT, de]iyered a
:·cry interesting and instructi\'(~ Oration on the subject -"Frecmasonn·
m Action." for which the Grand Orator receive<! the nnanimons vnt~
of t~anks of the Gran'.! I'.odg~ and a request that he furnish a copy
of !us Address for pubhcatwn 111 the Proceedings.
There is an interesting Report on Foreign Correspondence,
also by Ceorgc Rogcrs Ifan·cy, Chairman of the Committee. The
Hcp:irt sl.10ws discriminati1·c judgment in the selections for qnotation.
aml. mtel.ligent com.men! on the transactions of the varions <;rand Lorlgc,;,
California, 1913, is fraternally considered, with quotations from tlic
Address of Cran cl l\fastcr Filmer and Reports of Committees, ct c.

In ~he annnal election l\Jost ·worshipful George Rogers lforH'\'
of l\famla was chosen Grand Master, aml the retiring Grand J\Ta.-te 1:
::\fost \V<lrshipful Xewton C. Comfort. was elected Grand Secr,·tary.
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

1914.
39th Annual, Georgetown, Jnne- 24.
Lodges. 15; members, 799: gain, 30.
The ,\nnual Communication wa;; prcsick,J O\'n by l\fnst \V 0 r,ltipfnl

T. F. Fullnto11, Crand Master.
There were present at the Annnal Communication most of the
Grand Officers and the constitutional rcqnircmcnt of rcprcsentatin.,,
from Subordinate Lodges.

In opening his Adc!H'ss. the Gr;rnd J\faslcr says :
.
, .. "\
_: llO t':icr, Y,car o f . t11nc·,
o f opportunih-, and of service has pass<:d
«:vet} , the r11-er of its days has been pllurcd mto the ocean of a
Jl'.lst cll'rrntv
we arc now a,;scmhhng to review the work all(! to
,Ji<,chargc the .
and . 1:«sp011sihilities dcvolvin_g upon t'S ;is the
snp1-rmc go\'(:rnmg authont1cs of the .\ncicnt and Accepted Masrms

RIDPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
\\·ithin this Jnri0<liction. rt j,; alike m1·
extend t<l
a corrlial and a fraternal
renewal
co~operation in work and in cnunsel
:\ nnnal Comnnmication."

12.'.)

and my pleasure to
tn welcome von to a
this, our Thii·ty·ninth

The fo1lm1·i111!. quoted from the Crawl ".\bster's .\ddrcss, deJi,·crcd
scarcely more than a month before the
of the c;1taclysm in
Eurnpe, is a fine illustration of the irony of fate, and these splendid
fclicitatim1s about peace. etc, which the Grand Master g;l\'c cxp1·cssio,1
to, would not have hccn uttered had the Cram! Lorlge met a few
weeks later.

"Tt is a matte1· for univr:rsal p;ratitudc that our great and
Empire has not been rnlled upon to take up arms either in
defense. that while maintaining her lofty supremacy on the sea, and her
marmitlcent influence in the conncils of the nations, there has been no
ne~d to 'let slip the
of war.' \Yhilc th;s is a matter for rejoicing
on the part of all
it is esnccially so on the part of all who
helong to the Craft, which stands as it has C'\'(T stnod. for those great
principles which control the
of men aml of nations, which
make for the solidarity and
of the racr. and which, if allowed
nnlimited scope, won kl usher in new dawn.
secure the fulfilment
of the longing so aptly and
strikingly
in the words:
"'Ah 1 when shall all men's good
Be each man's rule. and nnh·ersal peace
Lie like a shaft of light across the land,
And like a lane of hcams athwart the
Through all the circle of the Cohkn Year

"In this connection I desire to inform yon that T have accepted
most generous and pressing invitation to represent you at the Amrnal
Communication of the Grand Lodge of Canada, in the Pro,·incc of
Ontario, at :Niagara Falls. on \V cdnesclay and '.I'lrnrsday, the 15th and
16th
of July next.
which it is exncctcd all the Graml Loclg·es
in the
States and Great Britain will also be represented."
The Grand Master states t11cit in his tenure of office he visited all
of the Lodges
the Jurisdiction. 1 le refers to the pleasure which he
received in installing the Officers of certain of the Subordinates, and
mentions as an outstanding event of his term of office the attendance
of a large cine! influential hody of :.Tasons t1p<ln Divine Service in St
James' Church. Charlottetown. The sen·ic(' was, it appears. urnkr
the
of two of the Lodges of the Jurisdiction and was condnctetl
by the Grand Master himself.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand :.faster
William P. Don!!. It is not the usual review of the inclivi<'1ual Jurisdictions, as such. but consists simply of a few comments upon current
l\fasonic subjects for the benefit of the brethren of his Jurisdiction.
He refer>, in his Report, to the so-called traveling cards; in other
worrls. to the system of documentary cYidcnce required by most of

124

HEPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDE:'\CE.

our Grand Lodges as a preliminary to heitw permitted to .15 1t
d
set-' fortl 1 wJ;a t is
·
· dl
°'
' ,proof
an
a d tmtte
· y true, that in requiring
documentarv
of 111c111hersh1p. the Grand Lodges which do tli'ts 'ar e, t o a 11 intents
· · and
purposes, turnmg down what has usuallv been cOtl"l'derecl " '
·
· k ·]
·
·
'
un ,~1Jc1ent
L an d mar·,
t 1at is the right of ·1 Mason t 0 ·· 't I · 1
J
·
•
l· 1.
.
'.
.. ' · '·
HSI
11s Jret 1ren in foreign
,mc.s, and tl11s without rcqmrmg him to carrv around in hi 5 ··II t
cert1f1catc of membership.
·
\ht e a
0

. Br~th~r . l)oull states that he, in common with other members of
!us, ~~1nsd1ct10n, where a clandestine :Mason is as great a curiositv as
the t.1bled _Dodo, cannot understand why the requirements of d~cu­
mcn~a~y evidence ~houl_d be permitted to set aside an Ancient Landma1k, .tlthoug~1 he is qmtc ready to admit that this modern method mw
he i~e:cssary 111 Gr~nd Jurisdictions that ar<' honeycombed with cla;;_
dest1msn;. Even this, howe\·er, he does not agree, justifies this modern
overtnrnmg of one of the recog11ized Landmarks.
In theory, at least, Brother Doul! is correct.

M.". \V.". Gr:oR~E S. IN11L~N, Charlottetown, Grand Master.
.:\I."· \V." · \\. l. DOLLL, Charlottetown, Grand Secretary.

QUEBEC.

1915.
45th Annual, Montreal, Februarv 10
Lodge,, 66; mcm!Jers. 8.152; gai1;, 333_

frelingly refers to the gre· t cl' 't,
l
s STheTl1 Grand
, 1 ,l\faster
,,,
.
.
d
isas er to t 1e

·•
•
" flmpi l.IJ ot Ircltind, which occurred in the St. Lawrence
River shortly after the adjournment of the previous Annual Communication
· w I11ch
· so many lives were lost among thci
. of the Cra
, • n d I~o d ge, m
11
hemg •several
·
·
'
' •l\I .tsons,
mem J·Jers of the
Jurisdiction.

I

··
·
Il.Ie also refers to the war in Europe
··
• a11d exp
,. re,,srs
t I1e intrnse
oya ty of the Canadian brethren to the British cause.

Under Fraternal De-id
·
' , he men t'10n,, t I1e passmg
onward within
t.hc: Y<'ar of the Most \Vorsbipiul Brother John B. Tre,idder \"Ii t _,
filled tJ
.· ·
f ,
.
··
' • 0 W lCC
.
Jc positi~n _0 (,rand Master 111 this Jurisdiction, th(• first time
lll 1903 and agam 111 1914.
. H~ t;ientions the contributions within the year ma(le bv the Cram!
J. unsdict1on to the . \Var Relief Fund, the value nf the ~ontriht;ti~us
m money and matenal exceeding $10,000.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Dispensations were granted within the year to form two new
Lodges. The Grand Lodge dedicated two l\fasonic halls.
The Grand Master attell(lcd on July 15 the Annnal Communication
of the Grand Lodge of Canada in Ontario, at which time a Marnnic
jubilee took place in celebration of one hundred years of peace
between England and the United States. 'fhe function was largely
attended by representatives of the Grand Cadges of Canada and the
United States.
The Grand Master reports a case of discipline which he was
called upon to enforce against one of the Subordinate Lodges, which
had refused, after :;everal requests, to conform its "work" to the
established ritual of the Grand Lodge.
This, we presume, was a case where the Lodge had inherited from
former days a form of work that differed from the established work
of the Grand Lodge. and they were loath to abandon the methods
which had been followed in the particular Lodge for so many years.
Other Grand Lodges h;1ve had the same difficulty to overcome. The
charter of the Lodge was arrested by the Grand Master. All of his
acts in connection with the case were approved by the Grand Lodge,
the charter was ordered held and the recalcitrant members of the Lodge
continued suspended from the rights and privileges of Masonry nntil
they should acknowledge their error and agree to conform strictly to
the requirements of the Grand Lodge and to its ritual; and the incoming·
Grand Master was vested with power to restore the charter when, in
his judgment, the conditions imposed by the Grand Lodge were folly
complied with.
On the second day of the Communication the Grand Chaplain
delivered a discourse upon the subject "Masonic Symbolism." That
the discourse was highly enjoyed and appreciated may he judged from
the fact that a resolution of thanks was extended to the Orator and
the Grand Secretary was instrttcted to print the Address in the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Jl,fost \Vorshipful
Past Grand Master E. T. D. Chambers. He holds that Masonry nmst
he justified, if at all, by service, and he feels that Masonry on this
basis does justify its existence.
He believes. in common with many others, that the modern
tendency is to centralize too much power in the Grand Lodges. He
believes, in other words, that the Subordinate Lodges should he permitted greater freedom in the government of their own affairs, and
calls attention to the fact that the Gral1d Lodges of England, Ireland,
Scotland and Australia, and some of the Canadian and American

126

127

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

R.FJPORT ON CORRESPONDE:\'CE.

Grand Lodges, arc against enactments
tying the hands
of the Suhordinatc Lodge>, and agr<"es with one of the ,\ merican
correspondents that "we hope to sec our sister Crand Bodies get back
to lhc ;\ncicnt :\lasonic temperance anchorage ;md let e:ich Lodge
ekct its own material. with a keener perception and fuller appreciation
of the gr<'at power resting in the black li;ill." ''Let temperance be the
:\Iason's guidepost, the ballot his safeguard, and educate the Brotherhood
up to the highcsi and holiest significance."

richest Turisclictions in the world, and has ample fonds, without causing the- slightest distress, to carry on its :\Iasm:ic }lome, hut. :\fassachusetts has thus far declined to levy what 1,; cus.tomary 111 most
American Jurisdictions, a per capita tax for. the. mamt~nancc of the
Home, and is depending upon voluntary contrtbuuom. with such !um~
sum donation from the Grand Lodge as may he neccssa~y .to complete
the fund needed each year to administer the 11 omc. But it 1s a mistake
to sav that Massachusetts finds the llfasonic I fomc "too heavy a hurdcn
for !~er to bear." There need be no misgiving whatever aliont the
lllasonic Home of 1'J;tssaclmsctt>. lt will take its place
one of
the great charitable institutions of this country. and if Massa.chn~clts
finds that it is able to finance its Home tlmwgh \·olnntary contnbut1om.
without assessing the membership, it will ha \'C accomplished a wonderful

Brother Chambers is apparently not much of a lwlien:r in the
-;ystem of :\fasonic llomcs, as exemplified in .\merican Juri,dictions.
His idea that the :\Iasonic Hoff(' method is an expensive method
of administering so-called :\Iasonic charity is no doubt correct, particularly as applied to Grand Jurisdicti< ns with comparatively small memberships. It is. in our judgment. foolish for a Grand Jurisdiction to
enter upon the Masonic Home system unless the Grand Jurisdiction has
a membership of at ka,;t 20,000; and with a membership of, say. 25.000,
or any number in excess of this. the l\fasonic Home system is, in our
j i;dgmcnt, the he st way of carrying into effect the charity obligations
of a Grand Lodge; and this is tme, in our opinion, even if the syslc'm
happens to be more expensive than the other accepted method of
c;omcthing in the nature o.i annuities, in vogue in the Australian Grand
Lodges ;rnd in a modiilcd form in one or two of our American
J nrisdictions, am! to a certain extent in the (;rand Lodges of Scotlarnl
and England. The argument in favor of the "annuity" system is that
the administration is cheaper. and the objections to it are that it does not
reach a great many
cases that arc taken care of in the Home
system. and that it fails particularly in caring for orphans. There is
no C1·a11d Jurisdiction u.sing the pension or annuity system that can
compare, in the work 11 hich it i.s (loing in providing for distressed
and dependent :\lasnns and widows ;rnd orphan children, with such
:\mcrican J11risdictions as Penno;yh·ania, or ::\cw York, or California,
nr 1\ orth Carolina ( partic11Ja rly in its Oxford Horne for children), or
Texas, or Ohio, or Kentucky. or :\fissouri, or others. The annuity or
pcnsinn syslc'm has the merit
cl1capness. which is its chief rccommcnd:i1inn. _\s prl'\-iously stated, ltowen,r, a Grand Lodge that proposc.s
to enkr upon the l lonw system shonld folly understand and realize
that it is a serious htbi1wss, which should not be undertaken without
a foll consideration oi all the obligations it imposes and a full
appreciation of the fact that it will cost money, not only at the start,
but continuously thereafter; and that, unless a Grand Jurisdicion has
the resources to carry it. thro11gh adequately, it ought not to be
undertaken.
.Brother Chambers is, in onr judgment, in error in his undcrst;mding- concerning the Massachusetts Home. :\fassachusetts is one of the

result.
There a re one or two other TuriHliction' in this co11ntry that main-C·,irolina Ortllw nai.rc.
for instance) by
(•tlic '"01·1·.!1
-'
~

t ain t 11csc JT· omc,;

methods other than the per capita tax.
P.rnthcr Chambers reviews California, 1914. in a cou:·tcous .and
fraternal spirit. He agrees with Gnrncl :\laster .l\fnrphey m the idea
that the Grand Lodge should to a grnalcr extrnt lea\·e to local Lodge'
the cktcrmination of what constitntcs physical t!isahility, etc.
Brother Chambers' Report is interc:-ting throughout.
.l\I.'. \V.'. E11w,11w ;\. E\-:\XS, Quebec, (;rancl :\faster.
R.'. \V.'. \VJLL H. \VnYTE. :\lontreal, Grand Secretary.

RHODE ISLAND.

1914.
124th Annual. ProYitlcnce, :\lay 18.
Lodges, 37; members, 8.833; gain, 373.
At the prc~cding Semi-anm1al Conmmnication, held :\ m·cmbcr I 7,
1913 the Committee on Foreign Correspondence rccommend~d rccogmtion' of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, but act1011 on th~
Report was deferred, awaiting information from the Grand Lodge ot
California.

'fhc Grand ,;\laster, in his Address, at ;:,.., Annual Comr:1u11ication,
t. . comnlete rcJJOrt on "Necrology." referring partH·ularly to
s <l
"
.
. ·
C
I
the death within the year of :\lost \Vorshipful \V1lham H.
raw ey .
Grand Master in 1896, who died '.IIay 5. 1914.
.

p1 csen

128

Rl:DPORT ON CORRESPONDillNCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

This is one of the few American Jurisdictions that makes a
practice of granting dispensations to attend church in regalia, nine
such special dispensations having been granted by the Grand Master
within the year.

mcndations of the Board were adopted, the principal recommendations
being grants from the Benevolent Fund of $500 to the Belgium
Relief Fund, $500 to the Grand Lodge of France to assist distressed
Masons and their families in that country, and $250 toward the
purchase of a motor ambulance, to be purchased by the ]\fasonic
Lodges in South Australia for presentation to the military authorities
in England.

The Grand 1\faster takes a decided stand in oppos1t1011 to the
prevalent practice of publishing in the daily press the Proceedings of
Masonic meetings, including the elections of Officers, etc. Nothing,
however, was done to change the practice in this respect.
The year was apparently one of absvlute harmonv within the
Jurisdiction; a substantial gain was made in membershi;; the Grand
Master was not called upon to interpret Masonic law, and the Annual
Communication closed by the unanimous election of Most \Vorshipful
J. Fred Parker, Providence, R. I.. Grand Master, and the re-election
of Right Worshipful S. Penrose \Villiams, Providence, Grand Secretary.
J. FRED P,\RKJ-'.R, Providence, Grand Master.
S. Pr;:~mos11 \VJLLTA~IS, PrO\·idcncc, Grand Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.

1915.
Adelaide.
Lodges, 77; members, 5,702; gain. 436.
The principal business transacted at the rh!f-yearly Conmmnication, held October 21, 1914. was the reception of the Report of the
Board of General Purposes, and an Address by Right \V orshipful
Brother F. E. Cornish, Deputy Grand Master. expressing the gratitude
of the Grand Lodge at the restoration to health of the Grand Master,
the Right Honorable Sir S. J. \Vay, who had passed through a serious
and dangerous illness, together with a Response of the Grand Master,
expressing his deep appreciation of the sympathy he has received
from his brethren, not only in his own illness, bnt through the sad
events which preceded the death of his wife. for many years his
hrlovcd companion and helpmate.
The Grand Master refers, also, in his Address, to the war in
Europe, in which all of the Dominions of the Crown, including
Australia, are participating. To his understanding, there has never
been a war undertaken by another country which is more justifiable
than the present one, on the part of Great Britain; not only justifiable,
but a war which could not have been avoided except at tlte disregard
of every sense of obligation and honor.
At the Semi-annual Communication of April 21, 1915, the Report
of the Board of General Pnrposes was received and certain recom-

129

A further purpose of this Semi-annual Communication was to
elect a Grand Master. 'With great enthusiasm and with absolute
unanimity Grand Master \Vay was re-elected to preside over the
Craft, and in his Response the Grand Master, after the conclusion
of the loud and pronounced applause which greeted him as he stepped
forth to acknowledge the honor which had been conferred upon him.
stated that this was the twenty-sixth time that he had received the
very distinguished honor of being chosen as Grand 1\faster of the
Jurisdiction; from which statement it appears that Grand ]\faster \Vay
is running Grand ]\faster Shryock of Maryland a close second in
length of continuous service as Grand Master.
From the Grand Master's Address. we learn that the Craft is in
an exceedingly prosperous condition; the membership has now reached
a total of nearly 6,000. and the accumulated funds are, in round
figures, $165,000:-certainly a splendid showing.
\Vithin the year preceding, four new Lodges were consecrated,
six new Masonic halls were completed, and much activity was manifested in all departments of Masonic work, the obligations of charity
and benevolence receiving particular attention.
The Report on Correspondence is by a Committee and the reviews
arc made of the usual world's Jurisdictions. California, 1914, is
fraternally considered, and the work of Grand Lecturer Baker is
especially commended. The fact that he had visited every district in
the State, and in many of the districts every Lodge therein, being
especially commented upon.
From the Introduction of this Report. information is given as
to the approximate mcrnhership of the Grand Lodges of England.
Scotland and Ireland, figures which we have not seen quoted anywhere
else in the Reports for the current year and figures that are seldom
noticd. in any publication. The Grand Lodge of England is credited
with 3,200 Lodges, with a total membership of 200,000; the Grand
Lodge of Scotland apparently has 1,000 Lodges, with a membership of
50,000; and the Grand Lodge of Ireland is credited with 400 Lodges,
with a membership of 20.000. These figures, we presume, are only
approximations, but arc probably snbstantially correct.

REPOHT ON CORHESPOl'\DEl'\CE.

HEPORT ON COHRESPONDEXCE.

l\f.'. \V:. Bro. Hi,: Excellency the Rt. Hon. Sir S:UIUJ!L ].urns
\VAY, Bart. P. C., D. C. L .. LL.D., Licntenant-Govcrnor, Chief Justice
of South Australia, Chancellor of the
of Adelaide, etc,
etc .. Grand l\Iastcr.

"Resolved, First, Thal the Trnstees uf the :\fasonic Home Fund be
am! they are hereby. authorized to at once formulate rules and regula~
lions for the relief of our indigent l\Iaster l\Iasons, their widows,
mothers, sisters, etc., in their res1wctin· hnmcs or with some relation
or friend.

l\r:. vv:. CH.\HLb R]. CLOl"l:I<, l'. n. G. :\T., Grand Secrdary.

"Second, That thc1· take up im111cdiatek with the different organized
orphanages the question of providing for the support and "di1cation
of our orphan children and that
made under these resolutions shall not rednce the Fund
the hands of the Trustees below

J:\Q

$100,000.00."
SOUTH CAROLINA.

Jn his Acldrc;;s the (~rand :\faster rekrs to a communication
received from the Crand :\faster of Oregon, inviting a representative
of the Grand Lodge of Somh Carolina to a Conference looking to
the formation of a General Grand Lodge. The Grand :\faster states
that he is unalterably opposed to these rcsolntions and the invitation
was, therefore, respectfully declined.

1914.

138th Annual, Charleston, December 8-9.
Lodges, 255; members. 16.165: gam, 789.
The l\Iost \Vorshipful George T. 13ryan, Grand ]\faster, presided.

Tn his opening Address the Grand l\Iaster ,;tates that the Craft in
the Jurisdiction is in line condition: that ihere had been within the
year a healthy growth in the Fraternity, both in mcml1crship and th;'
character of the material, and. while there had been at the beginning
of the year one or h1·0 qncstions of difference between the membership
of several Lodges, he was glad to state that, through thC' tactful
handling of the matter hy the Deputy Grand :\faster, these differences
had been all
adj ustc<L

The Grand ]\faster made sc\·eral "rulings," heing, in most part.
constructions of local Marnnic hrn-, which h;wc no interest outside of
South Carolina. One, however, is of a general natnrc and may be
of interest, as follows:

The outstanding featnre of this Communication was a discussion
of a Masonic Home proposmon. Several years ago, by order of the
Grand Lodge, a fond was started to he known as the Masonic Home
Fund, with the condition that no action was to be taken looking !n
the creation of a Home until the Fund should reach at least $100.000.

"Answer: Ruling 25, page
1910. Grand Master
Johnson ruled: 'Tt is wrong for a
a Lodge with which
we are 1101 in Fraternal rcl:itions.'
was approved by
Grand Lodge. Hence, if it is wrong
L1s to visit a Lodge
which we have no Frnternal relations. it is also wrong for a brother of
a Lodge not in Fraternal relations with us to visit our Lodges."

The Fund, at this Communication. had
the
where it
was necessary to decide the question as to >vhethcr the project of building a l\fasonic Home should be entered upon, or if some other method
should be adopted to carry into effect the pmposc·s of the (ira11d Lorlgc
of providing for infirm and ag·cd Masons and the widows and orphans of
Masons. and, as the result of exhaustive discus;;ion of the entire question,
it was decided to abandon the project of building a ~fasonie Home, hut
to provide in other ways for the charitable functions ordinarily discharged by the Home, and to this end the following resolutions were
adopted:

The above decision undoubtedly correctly states the general rule,
although we believe there may be exceptio1nl cases, st1e11, for instance,
as a brother hailing from a foreign Jurisdiction which may not have
been formally recognized as a Sonrcig;i Gra11d Lodge hy his own
Grand Lodge', not because of the existence of any reason why the
other Jurisdictions should not he rccognb'.cd, but because the matter
of recognition may not lia\·c been formally passed upon by his Grand
Lodge.

"WmiREAs, It is the sense of this Grand Lodge that Masonic charity
can best be dispensed by providing for the support of the indigent
Master J\Tason. his \\·id(m·. mother or adult daughter in their home or
with
and for the snpport of the orphan child in ;;ome existing

.,..------------------·---

"Question "I:\ o. 9 (in substance) .-'Ca:1 a brother hailing from
another Grand Jurisdiction, with which our Crand Lodge has no
Fraternal relations, legally visit a Subordinate Lodge in this Jurisdiction?'

I

1·

For example, in California a Mason hailing from a Lodge belonging to the Grand Lodge of Queensland woulrl, we believe, be entitled
to visit one of om Suhordinate Lodges, notwithstanding the fact that
Queensland has not yet been forma!ly recognized hy California. because
application for recognition appears never to have been before our
Grand Lodge for consideration; bnt a Mason coming from a Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEXCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEXCE.

Lodge that has made application for recognition to our Grand Lodge
and the request deniell wonlrl, in our judgment, not he entitled to visit.

and still affiliated with that Jurisdiction, being present, was introclucecl
and received with the private Grand Honors.

The Crand .:\laster rduscd to lay a cornerstone of a public building
(a Y. l\I. C. A. building) because the owners of the building did not
wish to have engraved upon the cornerstone "the year of Masonry,
and the name of the Grand .Master." This refusal was probably based
npon some law oi the Jurisdiction, otherwise it would seem to us
wholly frivolous.

On behalf of the local Lodges at Sioux l~alls, an ,\cldrcss of
\\Tel come to the Grand Louge was extended by the Masters of the
local Lodges, with fitting response by the Grand J\1aster.

132

l.Jnder the heading of "l\ ecrology," the Grand :\faster calls attention
to the death within the year of Augustine \"A/. Smythe, who had been
one of the notable characters of the Jurisdiction, he having filled with
conspicuous ability the station of Most Worshipful Grand Master in
1880.
Request for fraternal recognition by the new Grand Lodge of
France was, in accordance with the Report of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, denied.
The Report on Correspondence 1s by Past Grand Master ]. L.
Michie.
The Report is filled with discriminating comment and 1s extremely
interesting and instructive.
California, 1913, is reviewed, and reference made to the salient
features of the Annual Communication.
From Grand Master :\Iichie's Conclusion, we quote, elsewhere,
with approval, his comments concerning the so-called new Grand Lodge
of France.
GEORGE TwrGGs BRYAN, Greenville, Grand Master.

0. FRANK HART, Columbia, Grand Secretary.

SOUTH DAKOTA.

1915.

41st Annual, Sioux Falls, June 8-9.
Lodges, 142; members, 11.163; gain, 433.
The Annual Communication was presided over by Most Worshipful
George Philip, Grand Master.
After the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, Most Worshipful
Brother Park Davis, the oldest living Past Grand Master of Vermont,

Grand J\Iaster Philip, in opening his Address, expressed the
opinion that American manhood and American Masonry may proudly
claim "a place in the sun," because today this country, at peace with
all the world, is endeavoring, through channels open to its highest
influence, to bring about a cessation of the a\\'ful tragedies being·
enacted across the water.
The Grand Master \\'as gratefully able to report that there had
been no invasion of the ranks of the Grand Lodge by death within
the year.
A year of Masonic activity is disclosed. Four Lodges, which received
charters at the preceding Annual Communication, were duly constituted;
cornerstone ceremonies by the Grand Lodge were held upon three
different occasions; at least one J\1asonic Temple was dedicated, and
activities in other directions arc mentioned.
Under Decisions, he states that practically all questions that were
submitted to him for rulings thereon were fully covered by the Grand
Lodge By-Laws or former decisions.
The Grand Secretary, Right Worshipful George A. Pettigrew,
presented his twenty-first Annual Report. It is an orderly, wellarranged statement of the transactions of his office during the year,
and is one of the best business presentations of a Grand Secretary
that we have encountered in our readings of the present year. Brother
Pettigrew is certainly a most competent official.
One of the most pleasing events of the Communication was the
presentation, in the afternoon of the first day, to Past Grand Masters
\"A/illiam E. Milligan, Samuel A. Brown, Samuel S. Lockhart and
Joseph J. Davenport of Past Grand :\faster's jewels. Presentation was
made in well-chosen words by Most Worshipful Brother Frank A.
Brown, and a felicitous response to the presentation was made by the
Most \"A/orshipful Samuel A. Brown, speaking for himself and the
others.
The Committee appointed to consider the matter of the observance
of the two hundredth anniversary of the organization of speculative
Masonry reported that they had had the matter under consideration,

REPORT ON

CORRESPONDE~CE.

133

HMPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
but owing to present conJitions had been nnahlc to gather sufficient
data, arnl asked for further time, which n·que:"t was granted.

]\f uch of the business of this Grand Lodge consists 111 receiving
Reports of their numerous "Daughter Lodges," scattered 111 all parts
of the earth.

Reciprocal felicitations and messages of goocl will were cxchangccl
hcl\H'en the Crand Lodge and the Cr;irnl Ch;iptcr, Order of F.;istcrn
Star, which happened lo lie in session al the time.

Considerable argument was had anent Lodges conferring the :'.lfark
Degree and the Royal Arch Degree. The following wa>- fo1ally
adopted:

In onr humble j uclgmcnt, these receptions of committees from
other organizations, whether they he Orders of the Eastern Star, Commanclcries of Knights Templar. or anything else of that character,
arc out of order; and, in our judgment, an exchange of greetings, or
receptions of officers, from other bodies should be strictly limitccl to
Grand Lodges of Free and Accepted Masons; and the appearance on
the floor of a Grand Lodge of a lady from the Eastern Star, or a
representati\·e from the so-called Grand Commarnlery, or any other
body, even if the Crarnl Lodge is at ease, is out of place.

"That the Grand Lodge of Scotland, allll the Supreme Grand Royal
.\rch Chapter of Scotland, shall adopt the same ritual in conferring
the Degree, being that now adjusted by their respective Committees.

The Grand Lodge was entertained so handsomely at Sioux Falls
that the invitation of the local Lodges to meet there again next year
was unanimously accepted.
The Report on Foreign Corrcspornlencc is, as usual, by :'.\lost
vVorshipfnl Samuel A. Dr0\n1, Past Grand ::\laster. His Report is
exceedingly interesting, replete with cliscriminaling comment and wellchosen quotations from .i\ddresses and Reports of the Yarious Grand
Jurisdictions.
California, 1914, is fraternally reviewed.
Past Grand Master
:'.\Iurphcy's Address is quoted from with favorable comment. Particular
reference is made to Grand Master J\furphcy's statement that many
good men are kept out of lVIasonry by physical disqualifications. which,
upon the sound principle of construction, ought to be accepted.
The Oration of \Vorshipfnl Brother \Villiam 1I. Waste is characterized as of "excellent quality" and rendered exceedingly attractive by the
inclusion therein of Henry Van Dyke's story of "The Other \\Tise :'.\Ian.''
:'.lfARSH,\LL R. BRow"1, Sioux Falls, Grand ::\faster.
GF.oRGE :\. PJ.:'l'TJGRF.w, Sinnx Falls, Crancl Secretary.

SCOTLAND.

"That any candidate appl,-ing to he aclmittcd to th<' Royal Arch
Degree, if he has rccei\·ecl this Degree in a regular Lodge of St.
John's ]\fasonry. shall not lJc required to take it a second time from tl1c
Chapter into which he seeks admission; but. in ewnt of his not hadng
rcceiyed it, he shall be obliged to take it from that Chapter.
"That, as regards the Royal Arch Degree, this Degree shall he
reckoned the Fourth Degree in l\lasonry.
"That nothing contained in these regnlatiom shall interfere with tl1c
snpcrintendence which the Supreme Grand Royal Arch Chapter claim.s
owr J\Iark l\lasonry out of Scotland, or with the Lodges holdmg of tt
in England or abroad."
For all of which we fail to find any \\·arrant in Craft ::\Iasonry.
The annual St. Amlrcw's Feast was abarnlonecl this year, owing
to the deplorable conditions of the country.
M.'. W.'. Colonel Rom'.RT KJNG Sn:w.\kf (Murdostonn), D. L.,
J. P., Grand ]\faster Mason.
R.'. \\T.'. DAVID REJD, J. P., Grand Secretary.

TENNESSEE.

1915.

lOlst Annual, ~asln·ille, Jannary 27.
Lodges, 454; meml1ers, 28.081; net gain, 1,019.
The ]\lost \Vorshipful Thomas J. Bonner presided in the East,
and after the Grarnl Lodge was opened in ,'\mplc Form, deli\·ered his
Annnal Address. whic.h contained some excellent thought.

1914-15.

As is the custom in the British Isles, Quarterly Meetings are held,
and most of the business is transacted through Boards of General
Purposes, Boards of Benenilcncc, Foreign Boards, and Provincial and
other Grand Committees.

He slatecl, among other things, that for four years he had been
a student of Masonry, and had also endeavored in that time to
expo1111d its precepts. He found that her language was 11ni\"crsal;
that she speaks to all the world through signs and symbols; and that

136

REPORT ON CORRESPO:-;DENCE.

RIWOl:tT ON COl:tRESPONDEXCE.

!his language is recorded as sentinels of pre-historic <lays; her wisdom
has been established through her teachings; her principles have been
tested hy persecution; yet, without ostentation or proclamation, she
has led men through darkness to light; quietly. and without blare
of trumpets or ela,J1 of cymbtls, she has sought the equalization of men
by the establishment of the inalienable rights of free government,
free thonght, free conscience and free speech.

clerk sold, and so on inddinitdy. after the order of "the house that
Jack built"?

\Vith deep feeling lw rqnrts the death of Past Grand JV!asters
James \V. Irwin and James D. Richardson, the latter being at the
time of his death also the Supreme Officer of the Scottish Rite· of
the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States, and a man of national
and international reputation.
The year was one of :\Iasonic actinty; 43 dispensations were
issued Gy him; se\'eral dedications of l\fasonic halls were performed
under his direction by the G1·and Lodge; various rulings on l'vfasonic
law peculiar to the Jnriscliction i.verc made and approved.
lf ere arc two of the decisions somewhat peculiar in character,
to-wit:
"Can you grant us authority to lay :\Iasonically the cornerstone in
the southwest corner of our building'"
His answer 'Nas "X o. \Vhcrc cornerstones are laid tmcler the
auspices of the l\Iasonic Fraternity it mmt be in the northeast
corner."
And yet cornerstones have been laid in this Jurisdiction to our
positive knowledge under Masonic auspices that were not in the
northeast corner. Our rule is the northeast corner, if possible, but the
logical corner, if necessary, should it be other than the northeast.

IJ ere is another decision:
"_\ m;m has accepted a p:•:dtion in a mail-order whiskey 110US('.

Is he liable to expulsion?"
II is answer to this was "Yes. It is the intent and purpose of the
Grand Lodge to SC\'Cr all connection \Yit h the liquor traffic."
If this reasoning he correct, a man working in a large retail
grocery house that sells bottled goods would he liable to expulsion;
and if the clerk in the grocery store i;; liable to expulsion because he
handles bottles containing intoxicating liquor, why would not the man
be liable to expulsion who hlew the glass that made the bottles that
contained the liquor' or. even further, the man who dug the sand
from which the gla;;s was made that held the liquor that the grocery

137

It i> also a noteworthy fact that at least seventy-live per cent of all
oi the so-called decisions by Grand :Masters of Masonic Law at the
present time arc rulings in construction of anti-liquor laws.
The Grand ;\[aster attende<I the Conkrcnce of Grand :\Iasters
at St. Louis, but rernrds himself as being very strongly opposed to
the tendency which these Conferences apriear to develop in a direction
of a General Grand Lodge.
The Report on Correspondence is. as usual. by Past Grand
:\faster Henry A. Chambers. Brother Chambers is not in favor of
Conferences of Grand Masters because he thinks it m;1y lead to a
General Grand Lodge.
In our opmmn it will not lead to a
General Grand Lodge, if these Conferences arc continued for a hundred
years; yet the purpose of the active promoters is ;1pparently in that
direction. hut the proposition has met with absolutely no encouragement . so far as we have been able to discover, from the Grand Lodges
themselves; and about the only t'scful purpose which these Conferences
subserve is the social feature and the
of acquaintances and
friendships among· members that attend the Conferences, which will
have the effect. no doubt. of promoting good will in the discussion of
any controversies which may and do spring up at times bet\vcen
Grand Lodges.
Brother Chambers is in favor of retaining the physical disqualifications as laid clown by the Fathers. in which we are not entirely in
accord with our worthy brother in Tennessee; they were operative
Masons, we are not.
He thinks the cipher riwals arc an abomination. with which we
are entirely in accord with him; and he expresses the opinion that
nltimatcly liquor dealers will he universally excluded. in which opinion
Brother Chambers is
correct.
Brother Chambers reviews California, 1914, courteously and intelligently. He quotes liberally from the Address of Grnnd Master :\Inrphey
and touches upon the salient features of the 1914 Communication.
T. A. H1s:EY, Morristown, Grand Master.
R.'. W.'. JonN E. GARRETT, Xashvilk, Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON

] :~8

COR.lrnSPO:\Dl~:\Cl~.

TEXAS.
1914.

79tb Annual, \Vaco, December 1, 2, 3.
Lodges, 884; mcmhcrs. 63.394; gain, 3, 115.

K inctecn Grand Officers, eightet•n Past Grand i\fastcrs, and rep·
rcscntati\'C's of 539 oi the 884 charterC'cl Lodges w<·rc present.
The .\ddrcss of the Grand J\f aster, l\fost \Vorshipful A. \V.
I lonston. is a comprehensive re\'icw of his ::\fasonic activities of the
preceding year.
The "::\ ccrology" of the year includes Past Grand Master, :\lost
\Vorshipiul Brother James H. l\IcLeary, whose distinguished services
in a civic and l\Iasonic capacity are eloquently adverted to by the Grand
:\faster; also Brother Frank Rainey, whose services as Superintendent
of the Texas ?lfasonic Home from its inception until 1907 secnrcd
for him a lasting
in the affection:i of the Craft and afforded him
a higher place in the ::\lasonry of Tcxa:i than he could have secure<!
hy any hmwr resting simply upon title.
Texas is, in fact, a great Jmisdiction, standing numerically number
('ight among the fifty-five or sixty Grand Lodges of North America,
and the work of the Gram1 Master is of necessity onerous and exacting.
Cram! Master Houston constituted nineteen Lodges that had prcvionsly
recei\·cd charters; he granted dispensations to form fi\·e new Lodges,
and, at the .same time, clcclinccl to issue disp'.'.;1sations asked for in
li1·c other cases; twenty-four cornerstones were laid with l\·fasonic
honors; live public installations took place, and otherwise the year
was one of unusual Masonic actil'ity.
·;
Two hundred am! six decisions arc reporter! hy the Grand Master,
ancl after reading them all carcfnlly we ha\·c no difficulty in agreeing

with the Committee on Jctrisprudencc. who ;umounccd that two-thirds
of these decisions :-;honlcl not ha1·c been rcportecl. and in fact only
cle\'cn of the decisions arc commented 11pon by the Committee on

Jurisprudencc.
'l'exas is the prolific field for cases of visible physical defects, and
the Grand ~faster passed upon prob:ibly one hundred or more of these
cases and granted permission in seventy-fi\'C' instances to confer degrees
UJDH applicants slighth- dcfccti\'c physically, which. in most other
Jurisdictions. would not require any actinn whatcn'r hy the Grand
:\faster.
.\mmH:t some of the "terribly maimed" cases lll which permission
\1·:1,.;

rdns~;l to confer degrees arc the. following:

RF]PORT ON CORR!ilSPONDE;,\'CE.
"Loss of a joint of the little linger of the right hand";
"Cast in left eye, sight impaired";
"Loss of first joint of second finger of right hand, etc."
The Grand 1laster held that under the law, as it was in force m
Texas, Subordinate Lodges cannot confer degrees upon request of
Lodges of other Jurisdictions under any circumstancl'S.
Later in the session this ddect was remedied and Lodges arc now
permitted to confer degrees by "conrtcsy," and Texas. having <Jmcnded
her law whereby she confers degrees hy courtesy for Lodges of other
J urisdktions, Wl' 11flievc that Prnnsylvania is the only J uri,.;diction in
America where this courtesy is not extended.
:\ rnling to the effect that a protest fled after an "Entered :\pprcn·
ticc'' had taken the first section of that degree stops further proceedings,
is. we believe, hardly in accordance with ::\Iasonic authority generally,
which seems to be to the effect that when the work has proceeded until
after the end of the first sc>ction. a person is then to all intents and
purposes an Entered Apprentice ::\lason and "ntitlcd to receive whatever
knowledge pertaining to that degree that still remains. although, of
course, he may he stopped in the usual legal w~y from fnrther advancement.
The Jurisdiction of Texas has one of the linest ::\Iawnic Homes in
the world. It is a sonrce of priclc to Texas ;\fasonry and is referred
to by the Grand Master and others with pride and satisfaction.
Grand :\Ta,t0r Houston i11 his year as Gr~md :\faster ,;cnt to the
Suhordiintc Lodges of the Jurisdicti(Jn om.: of the tincst-Masonic letters
that it has been onr fortune to run across in onr ~fawnic reading in
the current year. He states at the outset in this letter that ::\fasomy
stands ior goncl citizc-nship. for the promotion of patriotism and the
uplift of character. and states, what is necessarily true. that one who
docs not exercise a hl'lpful influence upon those with \\·horn he comes
rn contact is not a good citizen.
He points out that ::\lasonry teaches obedience to law, the peaceful
O'cttkment of all contro\·ersics, and the anlidance of force and \'iolcncc.
:\o lawbreaker. nn conil'ntious man,
a good :\Tason. He draws
;Lttention to the fact that ho!l\.'sty ;nHl iair dealing, virtcc and truth,
an· cornerstones t>i the kmplc of ::\lasonic character. He aclmouislH'S
1hc brethren whom he addresses not to lake off :\lasonry with th.:ir
regalia. hnt tn lake it home and
il at the tirc,;idc:. He states
that charity docs not mean simply tl1c gi1·mg of alms, but that, in a
broader sense, it means that a man will take the erring and weaker, k%

l 10

Rl£PORl' ON CORRIDSPOl"DE:NCE.

;~irtnnatc brother hy the ham! and help him along in the ruggc(l palli\\·;n·.

I he slanclcrons tongn<', he points out, docs not belong· to th~ '\I· .. · .
1 1f
.
.
'
~ • .bOll •
ic "'_10 cc :1m:'s !he good name of his neighbor is not a good ::VIason:
and tmally mc\1catcs that l\fasonry has a mission to foster education to
promote peace, to inculcate virtue, to encourage patriotism and i'int
a good ),fason must cultivate the spark of didne in every hu;nan hea;t
so that all men may he made better.
'
I

The Report on Correspondence is submitted hy Past Grand ]\faster
George \V. Tyler.
California, 1913, is generously considered. Liberal quotations arc
made ~rom th,· mid res~ o~ Cram! 1\J aster Filmer and from Reports of
Com1111aees. Cahforma ts especially commended for its magnificent
~c11eros1ty: shO\~·n in fortl;erancc of its c~arity obligations, particularlv
111 comwct1on with Masomc Homes.
·

Jn his Conclusion, Brother Tykr refers at some length to the
so:called n~w Crall(! Lodge of France and indicates as his opinion that
this new (,rand Lodge solves the problem of recoanition so fa .15
French lVJ:asonry is concerned.
"'
'
r '
Tn
·
· f1
. his views
. . upon this, ·subiect
. . . lw i.s cl1'.ct1'11ctl\•
·'
. at variance
wit
anthonties that have made a personal investigation of the
a cged new Fren:h Grand Lodge, and we particnlarly have in mind the
Report of Past Cram! ),faster Gallagher of l\Iassaclrnsetts who made
~ pcrsm;aI inn'stigation up~n the fi~ld of this so-called new (~rand Lodge,
:tnd .arrived at ~he conclus10n that it was a "fake," pure and simple, that
it. did not consist of more than two, or, at the outside, three Lodges,
with ~ total memher~hip of less than one hundred, and that its alleged
standm~ and regularity as a legitimate Grand Lodge was without any
fotmda t10n whatever.

1

c~ rtam

At the election, Most \Vorshipful Jewell P. Lightfoot of Austin
"·'.1s cl~osen (irand Master, and Right \Vorshipful Brother vV. B. Pierson,
\\ akclichl, Crand Secretary.
·

UTAH.

1915.
44th Annual, Ogden. Januarv 19-20.
Lodges, 19; members., 2.355; ~ain, 154.

. '.f

he Grarnl J\Jastcr records with a great deal of feeling the death
\;·1rhm th; yc;1r of Past Grand Master Bruerton Jack, who at the

tune of his rkath was Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correopondcncc.

I
II'-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDIDNCE.

141

The Grand Master refers lo him as one of the ablest and one
of the valuable exponents of Masonry in Utah. H c w;1 s tireless in his
devotion to duty, and fearless and fair in his service. His wise
counsel, the Grand Master states. will be missed, hut the memory will
remain of his lovable nature and character.
The Grand Master reports that he received nmnerous invitations
to attend functions outside of the Jurisdiction, and refers particularly
to the great Peace Festival held at Niagara Falls, Ontario.
The Grand ]\faster was impressed with the need of :::..Ia sonic
education and improvement, and recommended that the Grand Lodge
should provide for the appointment annually of Committee of Masonic
Instruction and Education.
His recommendation was adopted, and an appropriation to carry
it into effect of $100 was made.
The Grand :Ylaster issued two dispensations to form new Lodges;
he duly constituted two Lodges that received charters at the preceding
Annual Communication: he personally visited every one of the chartered Lodges of the J nrisdiction, thereby greatly stimulating the
interest in Masonry throughout the State. .He made no decisions
upon Masonic law within the year.
He refers to the healthy and steady growth, nearly every Lodge
m the Jurisdiction showing a substantial
over the year preceding.
A request of the independent Grand Lodge of France for
tion was not granted.
An exhaustive Report was made by a Committee appointed for
the purpose on the feasibility of estahlishing a l\fasonic Home in
Utah. The conclusion arrived at was it >vould not be judicious for
the Grand Lodge to undertake to build a Masonic Home at this
time; neither could the Committee recommend the starting of a fund
for the purpose of building at some future time. The effect of the
Report, which was adopted, was to indefinitely postpone even the
consideration of the project of a Masonic Home, which action was
undoubtedly very sensible, considering the fact that in the entire
Jurisdiction of Utah there arc less than 2,500 Master Masons.
The Report of the Special Commitkl' 011 the Washington Memorial Fnnd recommended that the
ernlorsed by the \Vashington
National Masonic Memorial Association. he approved and an appropriation of $100 he made toward the proposed memorial.
The Report of this Committee was adopted.

Ri'~PORT ON

IU::PORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

\Vi thin le" than I wo year>,. death, he states, has taken the ready
pen from the hands of two Grand Correspondents. Brother Christopher
Diehl, the former Grand Secretary of the Jurisdiction, who fnr thirty-six
years prepared the Correspondence Reports and gave to those Reports
a distinguished position. Brother Diehl \\'as succeeded by Past Grand
:\faster Jack, whose two Reports were marked by originality of viewpoint and thought.
Brother Goodwin, we are sure, need han~ no misgivings as to
his ability to capably fill the position occnpicd by his illustrious
predecessors,

In the Report before m, California, 1914. is fraternally consiclcred.
An extensive quotation is made from Grand :\faster Murphey's Address,
and Brother Murphey's activity and zeal in the cause of :\fasonry are
highly commended.
Reference is mack to the two :\fasonic Homes in California and
the splendid work which they are doing.
The Oration dclin:rcd by Brother \Vaste 1s highly complimented.
Brother Goodwin. in hie; Conclusion, refers to at least three
s11bjects; first, so-called Grand Lodge usurpation; secondly, so-called
class legislation, and. tl1inlly, liqllor legislation.

In his
there is no material danger of Grand Lodges
:ibsorbing_ more than they ought to absorh .of the rights an<l privileges
of Subordinate Lodges. am[ disagrees with the opinion held hy some
:-is to the tendency of centralization of power and authority in the
Grand Lodges at the expense of the Subordinate Lodges. Neither
does he think that there is ground for any j nst criticism concerning
so-called class legislation, and, closely allied to this propos1t10n, is
that of liquor legislation, so generally adopted hy Grand Lodges
throughout the United States.
The fact that we are not in entire agreement with Brother Goodwin
upon these subjects does not render less interesting his comments
thereon.
WM. J. SHEALY, Salt Lake City, Grand Master.
McCARTY, Salt Lake City, Grall(! Sccrl'lary.

FRF.DL\N :\.

u::

VERMONT.

Fratern;il rccug·nition "as denied to the 'l.· ork Grand Lodge nf
;\fexico.
The Report <)11
1s hy ;\fost \Vorshipfnl Brother
Sam H. Goodwin, Past Grnnd .\1 aster. He states at the outset of
his Report that he approaches the task of Correspondence with more
or less trepidation, in view of the marked ability of his predecessors
111 that important position.

COHRESPONDE:\'CE.

1915.
!22nd Annual, Burlington, Jnnc 9-10.
Lodges, 103; members. 14,055: gain, 181.

In opening his ;\<!dress, ;\Iost \Vorshipf1'.l. (~r~nd ::\Taste~ Ch'.trlc,;
H. Darling, referring to the dcplorahle cond1t101~ m \vh1ch t.1c ''orld
iinds itself 011 account of the unprecedented war 111 Eurnpl'. says:
"\Ve meet this nrnrning i11 the 1~2d Annual C<'ll1lllt1llication ?f t]1i~
Grand Lodge. As I came into the !me and fmmd
app~~,1c11:n,..,
G 1 1 F t I Jocl'cd forward w1tlt the
th<it my ad111m1otrat1011
r~ j 1 :as '
· i~~l of pncc 'ts
as the ln11hlt11g of the
~ .......a Tm palcpcrR.tit instc·;:t~I ; 1.c lind the worltl in\'OlvNl i'.1 ~he
cm
·
•
·
·
'
'
T
1
,, , pen.
1 aps" in ,hislt1n«
his . , . ,tic
n.10rc <l'isapp omtm"''~
",l!,
" .
f
had
a great peace pnrt1· natl grown np .. t ,,ndmu1 1 o
that the
to
the world, and H was
'.1)C
·
j .1
'ti\"!\" that Wl'
never aga111
11 1'der
t 1nngs
iat
' ', '
'
, -1
1
? ( 1 I ·111 .. ., 1·c·it \\"tr. 'llHI that \\'C hat\ outgf0\\'11 those sell ts 1. ::mtf
1rn·o vet
" " '
' ' '
·
1 I
1 I t ti c warrcr o
scmlid motives that actt<;itcd mankmd
t tc1:J:1c"\io11 oaml intc\Ugencc
1
"
battle. Indec <L wc hac~
·nHI. h .. ~'\ 11 the f~1 11 possession of these
were the ham1-ma1< s o
·
' ''
\ cl
'C arc amazed
attrihutcs the- peace of society \\·as scc,mc:. A n now:." - ,
'm~vcd
t) learn that we
nnt ontgrown t:1u~c. ie.rcc pass10i11'
sFll
<
l 0 f rJ1 e
· that our mtelhgencc an(
. '1
.
the PC'?P e
'
~rn\ emploni1cnt of the means for
11
1
1
,;;1d that tljc most «:i1-iji7trl
~an still
atrocities
cruel as those t 1at outr<1gcc ie ·
,
of ba rbarotts times."
l · · .
\h conic l·m· 11Trc rendered by the Grand
Only two c cc1s10ns on ' ,
·1
f
'nterest,
\faster within the vear, one of them bcmg snrncw i;it o
I
,and,
' · we belie\«', ' in accordance wit
· 11 :vr
·
b
v
\Ve
quote
;is
. asornc
,' .

°

a;;«

1

~~; ~l~~~ ~1 ~j~1~t~} ~~1 r f~~llownwn;
u

-

;~;~:~~ ~

'.

•

follows:
''I'! ;\f t
1 f a Lodac hci1w in California, the Junior \Varden
. , ie , as er r '. . '." V'1rd~n being unable to be present at a
was (ipened and presiclccl over hy
hemp; dead, and the. ~em7 1 \ '
certam
meet~!'.'.',.' t11,c
a ;iwmher of the Lodge preferred
·
"'
san1e
''t P·tst
'· DnnL.,
- .. ]Vf ,t Jc
the Scrnor
vv an1en am1 tic
i
,
charges to ~he Past
lster
hv vote o~dcrcd to liC' over. On these
were read m open Lm ge . . · - . ,
lei .
facts being presented for dec1s10n. it is 1ie ·
.
"I st·. \ Past ::\[aster is not an offie('Jr' of the Lodge
can preside
,
- of the i\hster or a \\ arden, one of
must he
only hy courtesrl Lmlge" a;1d he responsible for what occurs.
present to open 1e
.
.
. .
.
·
\V 1
the onlv officer w1th111 the Juns"2nd : The Sc111or '·arc en
tl e Loc\rre
consequently, the
diction that could act. a.: ~f ~st~{d he ~rcferr::'d.
could not prefer
only one to. who1;1 clMt,.co c,0 \ _ a 'udo-e in his own case and. concharges agarnst himself nor a~e~1' to l det~rmine whether the char~es
sequen,tl.y, he was nlottl c~mtpl e acCJ1scd shonld be s1m1111011ccl for tnal.
were tnvnlnus nr w ic 1e1 ic '
.

1

144

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEJ.'\'CE.

"3rd : ~or could charges be preferred against the Senior ·warden
under the Cll'Ct1mstances except to the Grand Lodge because he could
not act as an officer while under charges. and ther~ would be no one
empowered to open and govern the Lodge or convene the
for the
trial of a memher; and because it would place the Lodge
the power
of a
member to prevent a communication or the transaction of
business."
its
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master Marsh
0. Perkins. His reviews of the several Jurisdictions are, as usual,
excellent, in which quotation and comment arc made with discriminating
judgment.
California, 1914, is fraternally considered.

.:.\:r.·. vv.·. CHARLES H. DARLING, Burlington, Grand Master.

R:. vv:. HENRY H. Ross, Burlington, Grand Srcretary.

VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.
1914.

25th Annual, Melbourne, September 30.
Lodges. 212; members, 14,193; gain, 854.
In perhaps all of the Anstralian Grand
very little is brought
before the Grand Lodge except through the medium of Reports of
the Committee on General Purposes.
The Committee on General Purposes appears to be the wheel
within the wheel; in other words, the business agent to whom practically
all of the affairs of the Grand Lodge are primarily presented, and the
Grand Lodge simply registers its approval of the acts of the Committee
on General Purposes; and the Quarterly Communications of the Grand
Lodge are devoted to the consideration and approval of balance sheets
of the various Funds and of the Reports of the Committee on General
Purposes.
There is not a little to be said in favor of this method of
procedure.
Contemplated legislation and other subjects are first
thrashed out in this Committee and can only be introduced in the
Grand Lodge after consideration by it, thereby preventing a great
amount of immature and ill-considered legislation.
The Australian Jurisdictions are all characterized by splendid
business administration, and, while all of them are thrifty, possessing,
as a rule, relatively large funds, they discharge their charitable and
other ohligations in a most laudable and commendable manner. These

REPORT ON CORIUJSPONDENCE.

Jurisdictions have all adopted the system of "annuities" to dependent
Masons or orphans, and through this method the percentage of relief
is high and the cost of administration exceedingly economical, particnlarly as compared with the American ::'v1asonic Home system.
This Jurisdiction is just twcnty-fiye years old. It holds to the
credit of its various Funds an amount in excess of $200,000 and accreon.
tions to these Funds are constantly
A notable feature in connection with 1914 in this Jurisdiction was
the so-called Semi-J ubilce Celebration. In other words . the celebration
of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of this Grand Lodge.
and there was printed and distributed a "Pictorial Semi-Jubilee Sounnir," which contains the pictures of all who have served as Grand
Masters and Grand Secretaries; an historical review, by l'v!ost vVorshipful Brother the Reverend A. T. Holden, Past Grand Master.
The Grand Master manifests a co~mendable pride in the Jurisdiction and recmmts the difficulties which the Grand Lodge was obliged
to fight through before it finally acquired foll rrcognition hy the Grand
Lodges of England, Ireland and Scotland, all of which had Lodges in
this territory at the time the Grand Lodge of Victoria was formed.
The information set forth in this historical review is exceedingly
interesting. It shows a gradual and substantial growth of the Grand
Lodge from· year to year; its disbursements for benevolence which have
exceeded $150,000 and other good work which it has accomplished.
In connection with the matter of
G1·and ::'vfasters in this
Turisdiction, what would strike a Mason belonging to an American
Jurisdiction as peculiar, is the manner in which they are chosen.

for
the retiring Grand Master, Most vVorshipful Brother
Holden, stated. in his Address to the Grand Lodge at the time of
the election of a new Grand Master, that there had never been any
contest for the exalted position of .Grand Master, and he .voiced the
fervent hope that there never would be. He says that the institution
stands for peace, love and harmony, and that anything that would
disturb. this placidity is against the hest interests of the Order; and
he proceeded to discuss the eligibility of proposed candidates for Grand
!\faster. and stated that, inasmuch as either himself or one other
brother must naturally he elected, he had gone into conference with
this other brother and two or three of the leading men of the Grand
Lodge, and they had d.:cidcd that the interests of the Grand Lodge
indicated the wisdom of elevating the other brother to the Grand
East. and. as a result of that conference, he virtually announced that
that brother had heen selected as Grand Master.

1 IG

REPORT 0:-\ CORRJ'.:SPOXDl<JXCl<J.

Ju 0thcr words, in order to preserve peace and harmony among
the brethren, they had been relieve(! of the ,·exations problem of
choosing a Ruler for themselves and three or four of the s'o-called
leading men had assumed the irksome task of choosing a Grand
Master for them.
This might "go" in Australia, and may, in that Jurisdicion, afford
a simple and easy method of preserving harmony, but we fear in the
1mtrzu11111dcd freedom of onr American Grand Lodges that a procedure
of this kind would be conducive to anything hut harmony. N evcrthelcss
th(' hrotlll'r chosen to succeed to the Grand East was unquestionably
a high-class gcntlcrna11, and will no doubt
the Craft in this
Jurisdiction with the same measnrc of wisdom that has been manifested
by th<:' five or six previous Grand Masters which this Jurisdiction has
had, it being the custom here to continue a Grand Master in office
anywherc from two to seven years each.

,\n interC'sting and scholarly paper was presented at the final
Qnarterly Cnmrnnnication of the year, and printed in the Proceedings,
l>y \Vorshipfttl Drotlwr J. IJowktt Ross, upon "The Spirit of Freemasonry."
There is no Report on Correspondence.

M.« \V:. B·ro. Hon. C. CAR'I'v-SALMO:'i, Grand Master, Melbourne.
R.'. \V.'. Bro. C. J BARROW, Grand Secretary, Melbourne.

VIRGINIA.

1915.

13ith Annnal, Richmoncl, Frbrnary 9,
The Annnal Commnnication was presided over hy Right \'Vorshipful
James 1\. \Vood, Deputy Grand ::\laster. 1m account of the illness of
Grand l'l·faster Philip K. Bauman,
The 1\clclress of Grand Mastl'r Dauman, which had been carefully
prepared and which he was unahlc to delivC'r in person, was read to
the Grand Lodge hy Past Grand :\faster Joscph \V. Eggleston.

Reference is made to the death, within one brief month in the
year, of two out of the ten Past Grand Masters, :\fost 'vVorshipful
Alfred R. Courtney and ::\lost \Vorshipfnl \Villiam Henry Pleasants.
The year was an acti1•c one J'lfasonically;
were granted
to fnrm fonr ne\\' Lndg<'S; the Grand Lodge was eom·crn:d in Emerg-cnt

I,...

RH:PORT O:'\

CORRESPOXDE:'\Cl<~.

H7

Communications three times to plac<· th<' cornerstones of public buildings, and similar functions \HTC performed upon thirteen separa tc
occasions by Subordinate Lodges, duly authorize(l to perform this
ceremony by the Grand Master,
The Grand l\f aster was able to attend in person the Conference
of Grand Masters held in St. Louis in l\fay, and he was also present at
the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Canada, where, on
15, there was celebrated the hnndrcd years of peace between
America and Great Britain.
Recognition was extended, in accordance with a Special Report
Correspondence, to the newly-formccl
of the Committee on
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
The "new" Grand Lodge of France was also recognized, although
this action must have been taken without mature consideration. Appar·
cntly the principal reason why recognition was extended was because
of the allegation that recognition had been extended by the Grand
Lodges of England ancl Scotland. \Vhilc American :\fasonry traces
its
to the Grand Lodge of England, the Grand Lodge of
England is not at all times a safe guide to follow in the matter of
recognition or non-recognition of Grand Lodges, and our frien(ls in
Virginia wo11ld have done well to have made some independent investigations as to the character of this alleged Grand Lodge of France
before so quickly extending to it recognition.

In the Report of the Committee on Grand Master's Address, a
very proper distinction is referred to between suspended Masons,
suspended for tm-:\fasonic conduct, and su,-penclcd ilTasons, suspended
for non- paynwnt of dues. This is what the Committee says:
"\V c heartily concur with our Grand :\faster that some distinction
should be draw11 between a :\lason suspemlc(l for non-payment of dues
and one' suspended for
comluct A :\fason who fails to pay
his dues should not he
a 'suspcnde<I :\Iason.' but as '11011affiliated for failure to pay
dnc·s.' \Ve suggest that the Committee
on Jurisprudence report some amendment to the Digest to COY<'r this
point."
The Report on
is excellent, as indeed arc all
Reports of Past Grand ilfa:'>ter Eggleston. Chairman of the Committee.
He redcws California in a irnist fral<:rnal
partict'larly commending onr actiYity in hrill!.:ing 1n justice certain pc·ddkrs of

:\fasonic Degrees.
Brother Eggh:ston's Heport should be rea(I hy all who arc inter·
«Sled in current topics of Masonic interest.
:\T.'. 'vV.'. }\1-IES n. \Youn. Charlottcvilk Cram! :\h>lcr.
]{:. \V.'. CH.\S. A. :\'Esll!TT, Richrnoncl, Grand Secr('(ary.

148

149

REPORT ON COHHESPONDE.KCE.

HEPOHT ON CORRESPONDE:KCE.

WASHINGTON.

us that either pcrsnnal or intellectual vanity influences us in almost
every act. For instance, the desire for leadership, a thirst for power,
and our reluctance when we are clearly in the wrong to admit that this
is so. He goes on further to state that, in his opinion, nine-tenths of the
Lodge troubles would disappear ii every member would banish vanity
and pride of opinion.

1914.
57th Annnal, Tacoma, June 9.
Lodges, 1&5; rnernbers, 19,542; net gain, 1,135.
'fhere were present eighteen Grand Officers. sixteen Past Grand
.\!asters, and the representatives of 186 chartered Lodges.
Brother Guy E. Kelley, on behalf of the eight Lodges of the city
of Tacoma, extended to the Grand Lodge cordial and fraternal welcome,
and a fitting response to the Address of \Velcome was rnade by the
Jnnior Grand Warden, Brother R. L Sebastian.
The Grand Master's Address was a straight-forward. businesslike statement of his official activities; five cornerstones were rlaced
with the ceremonies of the Craft; three Lodges that ha<! rreviously
received their charters were duly constituted, and six dispensations
were granted to form new Lodges.
Four decisions were rendered by the Grand Master. The first
was to the effect that the manager of the bottling department of a
brewery is eligible to receive the Degrees, which is probably correct:
at least the Jurisprudence Committee thought so under the laws of
Washington.
The second decision was to the effect that a certain Senior \Vardenelect, having a defective arm, which prevented him from assuming
certain positions required at times, did not disqualify him from being
installed, it being perfectly proper for him to call a brother to his
assistance should he desire to do so. This decision was, we believe,
properly upheld by the Jurisprudence Committee.
Another decision was to the effect that an unaffiliated l\fason,
desiring to join a Lodge, and who had loaned his dimit to a female
relative in a distant State to enable her to join the Order of Eastern
Star. could not attach to his application for membership a copy of
his <limit, but that the original dimit must of necessity accompany the
application. This decision was likewise upheld, altbough we bcli,eve,
under the laws of California, if he could prove the copy. it would be
accepted in lieu of the original.
Recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Costa.Rica.

In closing his Address, the Grand Master gives cxrression to his
belief that the defect in human nature that causes almost all our
troubles is that rnost insidious frailty, rnnity. vVe may call it, so he
states, by any other name, yet a careful self-examination will show

In conclusion. the Grand l\Iaster, in searching for a final thought
to leave with those who had
greatly honored him in choosing him as
Grand .'.\faster, finds that thought in the idea of "service."

He states that there can be no joy in the world comparable to the
satisfaction rroduced hy a kind act cheerfully and unselfishly performed,
and thinks that we may r<>mkr thanks to Almighty God that in our
lmmblr, every day liYes we liavr greater opportunities for service
that the mighty rnlcrs of the earth. such as emperors and kings who
control the lh·cs and destinies of millions of their subjects. A pleasant
smile, a helping hand, a kindly word all help to lighten the heavy
burden of those perrlexed ones who are with difficulty ascending the
hill of life. A life full of thought for others is one in which there i:;
neither time nor inclination for vanity or petty strife. Such a life is
always so full of happiness that it carries sunshine wherever it goes and
1s the only life. after all. that is worth living.
An effort was made to indt1ee the (~rand Lodge to give its official
sanction to a cipher of the standard work of Washington. The Grand
Lodge, however, very wisely. as well as decisively, turned the rroposition down.
The Report on Correspondence is hy -:\lost Worshipful Past
Grand Master Ralph C. -:\fcAllestcr. .Brother McAllester stands up
for the rights of Subordinate Lodges and contends that there is too
much interference on the part of Grand Lodges with the affairs of
Subordinate Lodges, particularly concerning finances.
He courteouslv and fraternally reviews California, 1913. :He commends Grand .'.\I~stcr Filmer fo~ his record of a busy year. He
particularly endorses what Grand Master Filmer had to say about the
wisdom of disciplining members who ·frequently violate and rersist
in ;;iolating their Masonic obligations. and in his maintaining that
1hcre is no condonation of crime in Masonry.
M.'. \V.'. WM. J. SuTTOK, Cheney, elected Grand Master.
R. ·. \V. ·. HoR.\CE \V. TYum, Tacoma, re-elected Grand Secretary.

LiO

Hil

REPORT ON CORRESPO?'\DEXCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPO?'\DK\"CK

WESTERN AUSTRALIA.

'fifteen years old, with a membership of scarcc.ly 1:10rc than 4,000,
exceed $60,000; and, through the S) stern of a1111mt1cs important. ch.anty
work is constantly going 011 in connection with the care of 111.cltgcnt
Masons, orphan chilclrc11, etc., twenty-four orphan children bcrng at
this Communication taken care of by disbursements from the so-called
\Viclows, Orphans and Agee\ Masons' Fnml.

1914.

15th Annual, Perth, April 23.
Lodges, 95; members, 4,042; gain, 95.
\Vithin the preceding year a Quarterly Comnmnication was held
July. 1913, at Iloulder; another Quarterly at Perth in October, am!
still another Quarterly at Perth in January.

111

c\t the January Quarterly, the Most \Vorshipful Drothcr, the Right
Rev. C. 0. L. Riley, Lord Bishop of Perth, was re-elected to serve
for thC' ele\·enth consecntivc term as Grand l\Iastcr.
At the Annual Communication in April, 1914, the Grand l\Iastcr
briefly recounts the history of the Grand Loclg-c from its for111ation,
in 1900, with 33 Lodges on the roll and less than 2,000 members, to
the present time, with 95 Lodges on the roll and a membership
cxccccling 4,000.
Wes tern A nstralia, like practically all of the Anstralian Grand
Lodges, had great difficulty in winning recognition from the mother
Grand Lodges of England and Ireland. These so-called mother Grand
Lodges cling with a death-like tenacity to these outlying tC'rritorics
and only permit their grip lo he pried loose when fnrther resistance
is not only useless but absurd.
\Vestern Australia onlv won its recognition as a Soverci•rn Grand
Lodge from the so-called .111othcr Grand Lodge of Scotland" a couple
of years ago, althongh it has had a standing among the SO\·crcign
Grand Lodge's of the world for at least the last ten or twelve
years .
In one of tl1c Grand Master's Addresses. favorable mention was
made by him of the new Masonic demonstration in France, called the
Grand Lodge of France; although we helien formal recognition was
not extcnclccl, and no donbt if an investigation is made into the
genesis of this so-callee\ new Grand Lodge formal recognition will not
he extenclecl.
.'\s is characteristic of all of the .'\ustralian Grand Lodges. the
Qnarterly Commt'nications are devoted principally to the reception of
Reports of thC' Board of General Purposes, balance sheets from Committees in charge of varions Funds, and to the routine matters of
accepting "apologies" from members tmahk to bt· present and the
election of officers.
From the Summary of the various Funds which is presented, we
discover that the total assets of this Gr;mc\ Lodge, which is now only

There is a Report on Correspondence, prevarecl by a m1111b_cr of
· 1913. , 11e1"11 g fr.atcrnally. arnl ,,.,0 enerously renewed
re\·icwers, C a l t'f orma.
by Ilrother F. A. Mcl\lullin.
He refers in compli111entary terms in his re\·iew of California to
the Address of Grand ]\faster Fil111cr and to the ccrc111011'.cs incident
to the dedication of our new l\Iasonic Temple in San Francisco.

:'.\r.·. \\'.". Ilrothcr The Right Ren·rend C. 0. L. R1u:Y. Grand
::\faster.

]. D. STEVI\:<rso:<r, Grancl Secret;iry.

WEST VIRGINIA.

1914.

50th ,\nnnal, Bluefield. Xovernber 11-12.
Lodge's, 147; members, 17,740; gain, 1.037.
At the fiftieth Annual Communication. held at Blueficlcl. the l\lost
\Vorshipful Thomas P. Jacobs presided as Grand ]\faster. There was
in attendance the full list of Grand Officers, fourteen Past Grand
:\Tasters, and the representatives of 135 Subordinate Lodges.
Tn opening his Address, the Grand Master states:
"vV c arc again at the clo~c of another l\Iasoni': year. The work
during that period has been qmte laborious, and yet 1t )1as been a labor
of love. And I can speak of it as one of the bus1eq a1:d one o~
the happiest years of mv life. It has been to the Fr_atermty a yeat
of great peace and great pros pent\·. No great cala1:i1ty has befallen
the people of our State. :;\ o great c\·ent of any kmd, such ~s the
flood of 1913, has crossed our pathway or caused any_ suffering to
the members of the Fraternity. V/ e l_ia\'C had a bountiful year. A
kind Providence has given us a bot;nttful ~arvest. . vVe are at peace
with all the nations of the world. No horncl, savage, brutal war such
as we see beyond the Atlantic c\estro)_'S c;ur _Peace .. ;/\ncl no blood has.
been sher] for thC' protection of O\'r 111st1tut10ns. v\ c have trod trul:the paths of peace and prosperit\· an.cl we are enal'.lecl to he doubly
grateful to the Grand Supreme ,/\ rcl11tcct ".f the m_nverse for. all :he
hlessings which we individually and collect1vcly enioy. 'fljc mcrttsc
in nnr membership has hcen unnsnal. :\h1ch new matcna has 1een

1~2

REPORT ON CORRl~SPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

gathered in. The Lodges have done their .. I· .
.
wherever I have traveled throughout th . st~r' \\~II. 1 have perceived
almost without exception among the br~tl; a l' 'TTicreased
enthusiasm,
1
rule and reign among 'them. And it r?k· w 1 e peace and h'.l~mony
brethren in their Lodge meetings ·md t mb · les
\done
gla.d to vlS!t the
10
and an enthusiastic desire to inc;e;s 1 1 e
a spirit of fraternity
at the same time protecting well ti;~ ~ ;;:r ~~~~~~r of the worthy, while

us and at last to take u;, tu the Supreme Grand Lodge above, where the
Great c\rchitect of the Universe presides.

1

°

One
from reading
~.r t
I
I
d .gathers
.
' the Report of the Gr·111d
'"vasert1att1c
prece
mg ) ear . was one
sto
. of Masonic activitv
. ,· 'a laru
, ,.,e num tJer o f cornertl ne ceren1on!<'s, as is usual in this Jurisdiction, were conducted In·
. ie Grand Lodge; the Grand Master interpreted local Maso . I ·.
111 a large
·
·
n11m1)er o f rnstances
but none of h.
I' • '· · me a\\
general nature.
'
is nt mgs was of a
From the concluding paragraphs of his Address,
follows:
we quote as

. "I assert that Freemasonrv
r1 ·
· .· ·
nusunderstand me· I say :Vlasoiir
a re1 . ~ 10 us 111st1tutm11; do not
. . · ·.
_
. ' . ' . ' •. · . Y
a re 1g10us institution. I d 0
t
say it 1' a ,ectanan mstJtut1011 tor it i- not It ·
fi d
no
·
It admits Protestant and J
'C th r ~
is con nc to no sect
1
climes, ~ountric~ and religf~~;s a;\ odic. am ~Iolrnmmedan; men of all
be found .. The only and su r~m~ ~~st
~very_ sp~1cre ~ brother ll}ay
and a desire to be serviceabl~ to our fell~_;ln~~~~~ef m a Supreme Berng

T

. "It t~achEes moral condt!ct based on the morality of the H 0· J.
S cnptures.
very moral prmciple fi cl
cl
y

"Masonry is not a religion, but it is essentially a religious institution.
Every Lodge has spread upon its altar the Book of Constitutions; to
Masons professing Christianity the Holy Bible; to the Hebrew Mason
it is the Old Testament Scriptures; to the l\Iohammedan it is the Koran;
hut in each case it is the rule and guide of faith. 'Why, then, should we
hesitate to say that our Book of Constitutions does not boldly teach us
the way of Life, for it is said in the Book, "He that believeth that Jesus
is the Christ is born of God."
"Why. then. should we as Christian :.\fasnns hide the Christ behind a
Jmlaistic figure, and longer call him the Lion of the Tribe of Judah?
This historic figure is the prophesied Christ, the Redeemer of the world,
the Shiloh, the one to come; the Sublime Figure of the Jewish Scriptures. the Crown Prince of the New Dispensation.

a glonous

"Our Book of Constitutions teaches us that Sublime Person, the
Lion of the Tribe of Judah. is the Christ, the Son of the Living God;
and if our Book of Constitl1tions does not so teach, then is our Masonry
a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal.

~nd cal~s ~g1fLNeA~~~d \L~~l~~e~h~vgitl1f~~j ~~~~~i~lt~~~~osl~o~~tohi~~ett 0[~~

"If this be not true, what business have we parading the Holy Bible
as our Chief J ewcl? As our Great Light?

b k"Not only is immortality of the soul fully taught but also H

"Let every one get rid of the idea that Christianity in its essentials
is not taught by Masonry. On the contrary, if it does not so teach,
then the Craft is a mere ritualism, meaningless except, perhaps, as a
means of binding men together for social and purely material purposes.

Bi~le.

Moreover, it !eaches moral

re~urrection to the Life Everlastincr

t~p:ig~tJ~~:s Yhe~~u~;~JPart in . the
It t

I , . fi .

10

~~:n~i~~ of theJ~ib?. of Judah is",.strC?ng~~~~{~d~e~f~~ ~~dg~l~\~ :~
rue an per ect . shier, fit for the Grand Architect's use.

·h 0
ro e the bonds of the grave brought life and i '
·
e \\
and gave strang~ and remarkable gifts unto the so~n~~r;!~11;y to ltl~hft
evermore· also 111 His life d ti
d
.
·
, even i c
bod, h
b
. d . d ' ea 1 a;1 rcsur~ect10n assures ns that the
) s a
e raise an become as mcorrttptihle as the soul.

Ii

"He also teaches infinite progrcssio 11 · ti t k 1

1

infini~ely leads to Omniscience ; that po~er proj :~ted ;~"{11fi~11~. e~~~1~1~e~

~~~~~P~ie~1~: :<\~~~ 1~h~j ~~~:.ithful Masons may ultimately s~ufd in tl~~

"\Yhe:1 the initiate is first brought from rofane d· k 1
l\fasoi;1c .llght, th~ first thing he beholds before phim is tl;~r J3 i~k ~f
~<;T stitu\1?!s, which to Masons professing Christianitv is the Hoh·
; ) e, w uc 1 contams the teaching of all truth; and w'e see there. in
t e record ~f that sacred Book, the blessed truths which a'>sttre us of
Immor~:l Life: and we. are there taught that the Great 'Architect of
the Umverse, who to 1:s is our Father, \O\·es us with an und)·in love and
because that we are smners loves us with that lo
\ l g
"
the world th t
L.
f
·T ·
ve, anc ias sent mto
e s rong ton o t 11e ribe of Judah to redeem us ~ncl save

1

L

"The Book of Constitutions, for us the Bible, is a part of Masonry;
and every tenet of the Fraternity is found in that blessed volume. From
the Jirst it is the rnle and guide of our faith. I have heard Masons sav
that l\fasonry was a good enough church for them. Be warned at this
point. Let no one rest his eternal welfare on this fallacy. Masonry is
not the church. !mt in Christian lands it is the hand-maiden of the
church. It tracks cxactlv in the line of Bible l\1orality; but this is not
sectarianism. Y ct I regard it just as necessary for my eternal welfare
that I should belong to the church of my choice, although Masonry is
built upon the morality of the Holy Scriptures.

"X o, my brethren, !VIasonry is not a mere system of ritualism. It
teaches more than a mere philosophy; it teaches us that the trne and
faithful l\iason is the son of God. and it doth not yet appear what he
shall he."
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, by Most
\Vorshipful George \V. Atkinson, Past Grand Master.

In his Conclusion, he gives expression to his opinion that, so far
as he is able to judge, Freemasonry throughout the world is going
forward with steady steps and stately mien, and is apparently impregnable against any attacks made upon it. "The mustard-seed shot of
her opponents," he remarks, "have thus far fallen harmlessly at her
feet."

154

REPORT OK CORRESPO.\'DE.\'CE.

In his comments concerning the various Jurisdictions, he touches
the salient points, and his selections . for quotation are made with

discriminating j nclgment.
California, 1913, is courteously and very generously considered.

He refers to the magnificent Temple in San
which had
just been compleicd, and finds words of decided praise for the zeal and
energy displayed hy Grand Master Filmer in his visitations throughout
the J uriscliction, and in the general intelligence displayed in his
administration, arnl the splendid Report rendered at its close.
He is impressed with the progress of Masonry in California. and
with the splendid work accomplished hy the Jurisdiction in the line
of charity, referring particubrly to the two ~fasonic Hornes in nnr
Jurisdiction.
Brother Atkinson's Report throughout is extremely readable and
we recommend its perusal to all interested in the cycnts which han·
transpired within the past year in the :\fasonk world.

M:. \V:. \VILLJA~! T.

Jr., Philippi, Grand l\faslcr.

l'<I." · \V.". JuH:-;- l\I. Cor.LIKS. Charleston, Grand Secretary.

WISCONSIN.

1915.

71st Annual, l\Iilwaukee, June 8.
Lodges, 273; members, 30,551; gain, 1,308.

REPORT ON CORRESPONirn;scE.

The Grand l\fastcr bewaih; the helplessness with which we are
compelled to view war's horrors, powerkss to stay its wasting hand,
helpless spectators in the awful tragedy.
The Grand '.\laster rders tn the relief asked for because of the
war, but agrees with practically all others that such relief as the
l\Iasonie fraternity might be able to extend at this time would be as
a grain of sand on the seashore, and he believes, with others, that. the
time has not yet come when Masonic relief cm be extended 111 a
substantial way.
The Grand Master deprecates
attempts which seem to
have been made in his Jurisdiction to draw Masons and Masonry into
religious controversies, and he hopes that the influence of all good
Masons will be addressed to the effort to prevent any such movement
directed against any creed. the true :\Iasonic doctrine being a broad
religious tolerance, based on 1he underlying principles of the Fatherhood
of God and the Brotherhood of Man.
Referring to the harvest of death, he mentio~s the follow~ng
distinrrnished J\Iasons of his Jurisdiction, called to their reward duru;p;
the p:Cccding year: Past Grand Master Edwin J. Farr, Grand C'.iap\am
J. Thomas Prior, Jr., Past Jnnior Grand \Varden Samuel S. f1fcGcld.
He
that l\Iasonry teaches the immortality of the soul,
and expresses the opinion that, except for thi;s b<;lief, ?eath woul_<!
indeed be a melancholy event; hnt, because ot t111s belief, death L
robbed of much of its terror.
The Grand l\fastcr makes certain rulings touching Masonic law
.if the Jurisdiction, which were approved by the Grand Lodge, but
none of the decisions, we lwli<:\·e. are of more than local interest, ;rnd

The Seventy-first Annual Communication was presided over h1·
the l\Iost ·worshipful Bernard f. Keller, Grand l\fastcr. The Gran;!
l\fastcr's Address is an excellent clocnmcnt. lt record> the activities
of an exceedingly busy year. He adverts to that which has wnmg
the hearts of the civilized world in the last vcar in the awfnl conflict
between nations in progress across the water."

arc therefore not quoted.

He is saddened by the thought that, just as the world seemed
to be congratulating itself on the achievements of Christian civilization
and on its advancement beyond the barbarism of warfare, there came
a clash of arms and .a slaughter oi human beings unparalleled in the
of the world, and all over what is seemingly an undefined,
indeterminate cause. He is gricyed and sick at heart over what seems
to be lrnmanity of this advanced day and date returning- to a barbarism
more 1erriblc than the crndties of Attila and his blood-thirsty hordes
of medireval times.

There is a very fair prospect, in this Jurisdiction, which has alwa~s
of a -Masonic Home.· that
tl1 e Proposition
. a .1\fasomc
·.
1ieen
Home will come to it through transfer from the Scottish Rtte Con. t . If the trarn,fcr is made it will carry with it to the Grand
SIS ory.
.
. 1
·n
Lodge an accumulated fnml of $200,000 and an equipment wh1c 1 wt .
enable the Grand Lodge to proceed at once to carry on the work (~f
1
this great beneficence. The one outstanding feature of this Cornmun -

In this Jurisdiction a limited use of the so-called "ke~s" has bec.n
ermittcd but we discover here, as elscwlwre where this unmasornc
~hing ha~ heen permitted, a disposition to reduce . the cYil to th.e
strictest limit, and. no doubt, e'.·cn h<:rc, the time will come when ti
will be absolutely eliminated.

1
J

L56

Rl<~PORT

ON CORRESPOXDEJ'\CE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

157

I

cation was the consideration of the Home proposition, and the adoption
of Committee Reports covering a thorough and comprehensive investigation, with recommendation for the acquirement of the Home, conclitioned upon the arrangement of certain preliminary conditions. which
seem quite certain to be adjusted.
The subject met with the enthusiastic support of the Grand Lodge.
It is recorclecl, in announcing the adoption of these various Reports,
that they were in all cases approved unanimously, including the somewhat drastic measure of increasing the per capita assessment for
charity purposes from 10 cents to 60 cents, 50 cents being for :.Iasonic
Home purposes.
We have made something of a study of Masonic Hom es and
heartily approve of the system in Jurisdictions that arc able, without.
distress, to carry the projects forward, and \Visconsin is. one of the
Jurisdictions that is large enough numerically, and enthusiastic enough
Masonically, to carry forward successfully a l\Jasonic Home, and,
personally, we are clclightecl to sec \Visconsin falling into line in the
matter of this great and useful charity. It does not rccornmcncl itself
upon the score of economy. Masonic Homes do not afford an economic
means of taking care of aged and decrepit 2\Iasons and the widows and
orphans of Masons, but it docs, we believe. afford the best way of
accomplishing this work, and we arc sure that in J urisclictions that
do not have these institutions many of those who are entitled to this
kind of relief are overlooked entirely, and in Masonry, as in everything
else, perhaps more especially in Masonry, one is helped by helping
others.
Dispensations were granted for six new Lodges, and the Jurisdiction, in the preceding year, aclvancccl not only in the true spirit of
Masonry, but in a material sense, as shown in the new Lodges chartered,
increase in membership, etc.
The Grand Master concludes his Address, which throughout is oi
a high order, by a reverent expression of his clepenclcnce upon the
Supreme Grand Master, and his unswerving faith that the Grc;i1
Architect of the Universe will guide and direct the Grand Lodge in
the paths of wisdom and righteousness.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, prepared by
Aldro Jenks, Past Grand Master, this being his eighteenth production.
It is one of the best Reports produced in our American J urisdictions. Brother Jenks is certainly a safe guide to his Grand Lodge
in questions that come before his Committee. His ideas are sound,
and by following them his Grand Lodge will ncwr go far astray.

L

. ti
nsc of the new so-ca II e cl French Grand
For instance, 111 Jc '
t
ll of our American Grand
Lodge, that appealed ahout a I~carl agoJ 101k: ·1clvisecl his Grand Lodge
. .
f
.
nition ,rot icr c . '
.
. f
J urisd1ct10ns or 1ccog
'
. cl ot be carried off its cct
1
an n
Tl
t 1·on to go sow
h
to take no asty ac
'
' · f·
r of recognition.
JC
., I
1,
strong case 1l1 .ivo
by what appea1 cc to 1c a .
..
to invcstig·1te has been amply
cl .· c to take tnnc
· '
. .
h t
.
wisdom o f h is a \ ic
h · h clearly md1cate t a
t
.
h
b equcnt developments, w 1c
telv without substantial charac er
justified m t e su s
.
b
this alleged Grand Lodge is a so 1u or basis.
We believe that Brother J cnks is right in his opinion that the
'
I Conferences of Grand Masters arc engineered by those who
f
·"-nnua
cl
.
to la -v the "O"rotm wor1( o1 a General Grand Lodge, and
are trymg
,
f
he thinks they should not )e encouraged.
there ore,
'
W I· t n
.
with reference to the George
as Jmg o
He takes the same v1c;w
. .
that the ultimate purpose of
.
Memorial
Assoc1at10n.
'
h" h
1
Masonic N
• at10na •
· . .
- form a nucleus about w 1c
. ·
·f
ried to frutt10n, wi 11
h
this orgamzatton, t car
G
cl L dge idea. Brother Jenks as
may be developed the Supreml\cT ,ra~ I1oome idea but when Wisconsin
asomc
not been an a cl voe,ate of the
_ f n actual ' experience a JI o f tiJC
. I-I
·md he 1earns rot
t
has a Maso me
omc .' .
f dent he will become a convcr
excellencies of the inst1tut1on, we are con 1
to the idea.
.
cling his present Report. It
We have taken much pleasure m rea cl "t
erusal to others; he
.I
cl th"ngs We commcn 1 s p
.
ik. cl. I
cl cot1rteous consideration, touchmg
is replete wit 1 goo
n · 1914 111 Y an
'
t"
of that Communication.
gives Ca 1 orma,
upon the important transac 10ns
'
GE 0. KELLOGG, Grand Master, _Elk.
G7
EOR
W.W.
PEl\RY, Gr;im1 .S ccre. t a r.), Milwaukee.

WYOMING.

1914.

40th Annual, Thcomopolis, Septcn:bcr 9.
Lodges, 34; members, 3,190; net gam, 150.
. .
ti
Address of Grand Master
At the Annual Commu111cat10n, Je .
'1'-k I
ent which
. I t forward busmcss- t e c ocum '
Fred C. Barnett was a stra1g J ' '.
c1·1Jct and orderlv fashion.
. act1vi
· ·t·ies of the vcar
111 sue
'
·
sets forth Masomc
.
.
mon.,. other things, to the fact that, wlule
He drew attcnt10n, a
"'
.
.
· the presence of the
.
.
. . of prospcntv, we .1rc m
we rejmcc 111 a mcasu_1 e . 1 ]Jist~n· of the world. In consequence
•
grca t es t Conflict of nations 111 t Je

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

J .)8
our sym]Jathies go out to our unfortunate frlluwmcn who are ruthlessly
trampled beneath the heel of tyranny and oppression. In this dark
hom of strngg"lc. he giYcs expn:•ssion to the hope that, after the storm
is oyer and the awfd carnage wrought by the engines of war i.s ender!,
the• time will come whrn, in the language of the prophet of old, "Nations
,;hall not lift np sword against nation; when swords shall be beaten into
plowshares and spears into pruning hooks, and when nations shall not
learn w<ir any more."

rendered discouraging the present idea of a :\fasonic I-Tome; <:nd the
recommendation of this Committee to the extent of ahandonmg- the
Home project was adopted, bnt it was voter! to contin:cc the acc111111:Iation of the Fund, the income from which to he nscd 111 the alknation
of Masonic distress within the J urisrliction, the mtmc ":\Ia some H omc

The Grnnd ::\faster reported twenty-one decisions. It is remarkable
that a Cranrl Master would he bot'·cred or would make mcmoramla
under Decision to such questions ;,, these:

In \Vvoming it appears that U. U. Lodges may affiliate :\[asons.
This is ca"ntrary to the usual doctrine.

Fund" to be retained.
The decision of \Vyoming, 1n vH.:w of all the· circumstance:'. was
undoubtedly a wise one.

expd a member for unmasonic

In the absence of the :\faster and lwth \ Vankns, it seems, alsu,
that any Past l\!astcr of I I1l' I ,o<Ig<: m;1y open, c1nsc' '·tml conrluct husi·
ncss, which is abo contrary lu the u;mal proccrlnrc.

"The :\'faster of our Lodge is charged with unmasonic conduct.
Accordingly we procured his resignation and promise to remain awav
from the Lodge. Later, being undecided as to the method of thi.s
conrse, askc-d your a<h·ice as to the best method to pursue.''

And a rejected candidate for affiliation cannot renew his ~pplica­
tion in kss than six months; also 1111usna1. All 6f these rulmgs or
· ·
·
· 11 w1mt ls
· · us11.1
· · II ~· r ',.,.
n-i1«led ·is
prons1011;;
conlhct
wit
' ·· well scttld
:\fasonic law.

The Granrl :\Taster naturally answer<::d the first of
inqmncs
by referring tlw questioner to the Grand Lodge By-Laws, and the
second one by stating that a master could not resign nor be tried hy
the Lodge.

The Corrcspon<lcncc Report is hy the Grand Secretary, \V. L.
Knykemlall. and this Report, like preceding Repnrts from his pen,
shows that he is widely read upon :\lasonic snlijccts.

"\Vhat action is necessary
conduct?"

t '

Another ruling of the Grand Master was to
a petition for
affiliation from a brother residing in another State. This ruling, we
helic\·c, is in contra1·enti•)l1 of fundamental :\lasonic law, which permit>'
a Master l\Iason, in good standing, holding a dimit, to affiliate with
any Lodge at any time.
The Grand :llfastcr referred to the Conference of Grand :\fosters
held in the
of St. Louis, and regarded the occasion as one long
to be remembered. Ile nndonbtedly had a good time, hut the qm:stion
naturally presents itself, what practical good \Vas accomplished beyond
the mere matter nf entertainment?
Jn accordance with the plan adopted scvC'ral years smcc of
accumulating a Ft,nd in anticipation of fonnding a :;\'fosonic Home,
it is disclosed at this Co111111unication that an accumulation <i"grro-atinu
0
$11,455.50 has heen made. Doubts, however, as to the wisdom of ~
Jurisdiction no larger than \Vyoming, munerically speaking, of course,
arose in the minds of the brethren of \Vyoming, and a Committee was
appointed to make cxhaustin:
into the subject and ascertain
from the experience of other J misdictions whcthc r or not the proposi~
tion was feasible. 1\s a result of this investigation a Report was

l

159

..

,

0

Jle is a strict constructionist, very properly, we helicn\ in the
matter of recognition of Grand Lodges, and helievcs that only Grand
Lodges should be recognized that confine thcm~elves to. the thr,ce
svmholic degrees, and only when they arc sovereign and mdcpcrnlcnt
the territory where they claim jurisdiction.

i;

· our op1111011,
· ·
of ~ng·Jand'
s action
He disapproves, very proper1y, m
r. ,.
in recognizing the new Gran<l Lodge of France.
Under th~ caption of "South Carolina," he states that he h:'lic.Hs
. that he is the only reviewer who has
contcml.cd !or the prmc1p~c
that 110 Mason is <:ntitkd to recognition until lns c,r~nd L.odg~ IS
recognized. ]n a general way we arc in h<:r.rnony with tins vie:~:
although it will son1C'times happen that rccogn1t1011 of a Grand !,orl,,c
by another Grand Lodge is ofttimes postponed, .rather than .p.os1tively
denied; and in cases of this character, we believe, rccogmtrn1: ~1:1y
properly be extended to an individual ~oming from that Jtmsr11ct1011,
if the Grand Lodge, as a matter of fact, 1s regular.
For instance, California J1as never officially recognized the G1:and
·
Jam 1. Tl·,
a 1·e
is not entitled
Lodge ot· Queens
11'
no t 1,
)<:Cc t '
to recognition, but simply because the matter has not been dn1w11 to

160

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the attention of California in recent years, and the subject lies tlormant.
Recognition will unquestionably be extended to Queensland when the
matter is drawn to the attention of the Grand Lodge of California, as
it no dou\Jt will be soon; and, in the meantime. we apprehend that
there would be no infraction of Masonic principles if visitors from
Quernsland were received into our California Lodges.
\Ve agree with Brother Kuykendall that the Grand Representative
system is to all intents and purposes a "farce."
California, 1914, is reviewed in a generous and fraternal spirit by
Rrother Kuykendall.

J. J. JEWETT, Riverton, Grand Master.
W. L. KUYKENDALL, Cheyenne, Grand Secretary.

INDEX-1915
A
Accounts-Report of Committee otL... .....................
. .... .102
Accusation-What Fact Should Be Stated in..
.. .... 327
Address of Grand :'.\faster (See also Grand :\faster L.....
.. .... 281
Affiliation-Jurisdiction of Lodges on Applications for.......
...295
Aged Members-Suggestion Regarding Life :\Iembcrship........
...323
Alexander, .Mrs. H. £.-Resignation as :\Iatron of Home ............... 394
Alphabetical List of Lodges........................
.......... 553
Alphabetical Location of Lodges........
.. ........ 562
Amendments to Charges on RetriaL.... ..
.. ... 295-6
Anaheim Lodge No. 207-Dedication of .'\ew Hall..
......... .285
Angel Island-Relative to Lodge at Fort :\fcDowelL..
.. ......... ..432
Annual Communications-Proposal to Meet at Los Angcles .. 335. 474. 523
Annual Oration-By Matt S. I-!ughcs............
.................... .490
Ashlar Lodge Ko. 306-Trial Record..
.. ........................ 346
Claim of .............
.. ..... ........
.. ........... 377, 519
Assets-Of Grand Lodge
......340
Of :'.\fasonic Endowment Fund
................. 342
Attorney at Law--May not Act as Counsel at Masonic Trial if not a
Mason ...... ........ ... .....................
..292

B
Ballot Box-Preparation of Before Each Ballot.
........................... 291
Bethlehem Lodge-Dispensation for ....... .
........................ 343
Charte~ for ................................. .
.... 513
Blackmer Lodge No. 442-Reference to Constituting oL.
.284
Blanks-Uniform System of Recommended ......
.....322
Boards of Relief-Burials by .................... ..
357. 367. 374
Definition of Term "Orphan" ........ ..
......... 294, 382. 428
..........................370
Honolulu, Report of .......... .
................. 356
Los Angeles, Report of.. ......... .
Oakland, Report of ............ .
:m. 518. s22
Relating to Reimlmrsements to .....
.... 302
Relating to Per Capita Tax, Section 83 .....
... ..427, 508
San Diego, Report of.. .......... ..
.... 376, 518
San Francisco, Report of.. ................. ..
................. 362
.......... 370
San Jose, Report oL.......................... .
\Vho May Kot Join in Organization ..
. .292. 381

l

INDEX

!,\'DEX

Bonding-Of Treasurer and Secretary of Lodge .................................. .430
Bristol, William C., Grand Master of Oregon-Corr.espondence with .. 304
Burlingame Lodge No. 400-Trial Record.............
......347, 481
By-Laws-Amendments to Proposed Amendments .................................. ~7
Appointment of Committee 011 .....•....... ---··········--····--··············-----···---·433
Report of Committee on .......................................................................... 502
Proposed Amendments Reported ·············--········-················--···-···---····347
Standard Form of Book Recommended ............................................ 503

Coronado Lodge No. 441 Constituted..................
................................ .284
Covina-New Home at.................................... ................................
... 393
Crane, Douglas B.-Appointcd Senior Grand Deacon............
...... .280
Credentials-Report of Committee on .......... ___
....... .45()
Crocker Lodge-Dispensation for ···-----·········
.....343
Charter for ...................................................
........ 513
Crow, Samuel H.-Reimhursement for Mileage ....................................... 524

ii

I

I
~

i

c
California Lodge No. 1-Trial Record......
......346
Card Games During Lodge Hours...........
..334
Carpinteria Lodge I\ o. 444-Constituted ·--......... 284
Carquinez Lodge No. 337-Trial Records --····---. 346. 481
Charters-Committee on ··--------·······---········----·····----------··--------··-····- _______ 339
Report of Committee on ............ ------···------·-------·-·-···-----·····-512
Children of Home-Removed to Covina ..................................................... __ 393
Grand Master's Reference to ·············---························--------·-· ........ 320
Visit to Exposition ........................................................................ 331. 404
Clandestine Masonry-Reference to --···---------········-·--········
-----·····---·--327
Committees-On Address of Grand Master.
___________ 337, 419
On By-Laws ---·---···----···--····----··----------······ --·-···-------------- ............ 433, 502
On Charters ········----····--..... 339, 513
On Report of Grand Lecturer.. ............................................... .427, 517
On Report of Grand Secretary .................................................. 356, 420
On Report of Grand Treasurer.....
------·--····-----········-----···············342
List of Standing ·-·····················----·········----·········--······················--········-5~
Conference of Grand Masters ........... ------····-------···-·--·--------·······--········-··------······304
Consolidation of Lodges-Amendment to Section 91... ..................325, 449
Fowler No. 398 with Selma No. 277 .. ------······-·----··-··-------·····--·----- ....345
Recommended ............... -----·····----·······---------·-····--------···-------·········---·325, 449
Constitution-New Edition Published ................. ------··-··-------····-······--········----345
Constitutional Amendments-Certificates that j\fay Be Used in Formation of New Lodge, Section 161............................................447
Consolidation of Lodges, Section 91... ..................................... 325, 449
Certificate of Standing in Lieu of Dimit, Section 161c............ 512
Elections of Officers, Section 135....................................... .298, 382, 473
Fee for Dispensation, Section 39 ............................................ 287-8, 448
Increasing Members of Committee on Jurisprudence, Section
28 ··············---········----··--·····----·······-···----·---·-····----·-·-·--···--········----·····--····509
Per Capita Tax of Boards of Reiief, Section 83 .................. ..427, 508
Trials, Section 208A .................................................................... 326-7, 449
Trial, Procedure ·when Member Tried in Another Jurisdiction,
Section 192 ...................................................................................... :.379

iii

D
Daughter of a Mason-Right to Ask Ai<l ............................... .294, 382, 428
Davies, William Abraham-Received with Honors .................................. 338:
Decisions of Grand Master................................................................... .288, 380
Delano Lodge No. 309-Laying of Corner Stone of New HalL ......... 285
Delinquent Members-Recommendation for Committees on ........ 345, 420
Dimit-Application for, for Purpose of Engaging in Saloon Business..293
Diplomas-May Be Purchased from What Fund ................................... .297
Dispensations Issued by Grand Master...............
............... .287, 348, 501
Dispensation-Cannot Issue to Permit Resident of California to
Petition in Another J urisdiction ................... ----·······-·----······------296'
Fee for in Case of Vacancy in Officc ........................................ 287, 448
Doerr, Fred-Introduction of Resolutions ................................ 338, 423, 486
Dye, James E.-Appreciation of Services ...................................................324

E
El Centro Masonic Building Association-Relative to loan to ...... 377, 520
Election of Grand Officers ................................................................................ 525
Election-Must Be Held Each Year. ............................................................ .296
Vote Necessary to Elect Officers ................................... 298, 382, 473
Endowment Committee-Report of.......................
......................... ..475
Employment Bureaus-Reference to by Grand ;\fastcr ............. ., .... .330, 336
Los Angeles, Report of............................................................................ 357
Oakland, Report 0£..................................................
........ 373
·····-------·····----------··------······-----377
San Diego, Report of.......................
San Francisco, Report oL .............. ······------·······-------······---··········-··-··368
Eureka Lodge No. 16-Trial Record....
·····-···········-----······----346, 481
Expulsions-List of ······-·--·········---·······-·
---·····----·-·········--···-·····--346
Extinct Lodges-List of......................
------········---····-·------··············-····-··-544-

F
Fellow Crafts, Twelve-Use oL ...................................................... .323, 501-Z
Ferrari, Ettore-Conference with ............................................................309, 525
Finance Committee, Report
527
Fort McDowell-Relative to Lodge at... ................................................... .432'
Fowler Lodge Xo. 398-Consolidation with Selma No. 277 ..................345
France, Kational Grand Lodge of-Recognition Defrrred ............308, 474Funeral Services-Presiding at in Uniform of Knight Templar ... .288, 381

iv

IX DEX

INDEX

G

Grand Master-Continued.
Jurisdiction of Lodges as to Applications for Affiliation .......... .295
Lambskin Aprons, From What Fund May Be Purchased ... 297, 381
Letters to Lodges ...................................................................................329
Life Membership for Aged Members ...............................................323
Lodges Constituted ................................................................................ 284
Lodge Must Hold Elections Each Y car. .......................................... .296
Masonic Education ..........................................................................329, 333
::'vfasonic Homes, Commendation of.................................................... 320
Masonic Temple Association ...
..................................................317
Masonic Trials, Amendment to Law Recommended ........... 326, 378
................................ 310
Masonic War Relief Association..
McGrew Case, The ........... ........... ....
.......307, 443
Middle Chamber Pillars Necessary .................
........ 297, 501-2
~ational Masonic Sanatorium ..............................
............. 310
Objection Before Ballot on Petition Not Valid
...... 296, 381
"Orphan," Definition of
382, 428
Past Master Defined ............................................................................ 293
Perpetual Jurisdiction Claimed by Pennsylvania.......
............ 303
Petitioner Intending to Engage in Saloon Business.... .... .289, 381
Petitioner Prematurely Elected ..........................
..... 290, 381
Printing and Distribution of Address .............
..................33/
Recommendation to Meet at Los Angeles.........
. .......336, 523
......... 302
Reference to Relief and Reimbursement......
Relations with Other Jurisdictions..................
.......... 302
381
Saloon Keeper Defined
Sawin, Lee C., Appreciation of Services..
·······--·-···324
Sherman, YVilliam A., Appreciation of Services..
···········-···324
Special Commu1iications ·-································
................. .285
Trial Records, Use of in State Courts..
.... 297, 381
Trials, Procedure on Retrial
................................. ____ .295, 381
Twelve Fellow Crafts, Use oL ......................................... ________ 323, 501-2
Violation of Sumptuary Law Xot Always l'nmasonic.. ......291, 381
Vote Necessary to Elect Officers......
···-······-·.298, 382, 473
\-Vaiver of Jurisdiction May Be Granted to Permit Resident
to Petition Elsewhere ·····--· ......................................... ..296, 381
Grnnd Secretary's Report... .. ., ········- ........
·····---········ ...... ·········-··343
....... 347
By-Laws Amended, Lht oL
Constitution, Xew Edition Printed.·····-·-························-·-· ···-·········345
Dispensations Issued .
......................
...348
Johnson, Harry S., Appreciation of Sen-icc·s..
....349
Life Memberships, Lodges fa:tablishing . .
. ................ 348
Lodges, Kew. Formed ........
....................... ....... 343
Lodges, ::\umber of and l\kmhcrship..
. ...................... .343, 345
Queensland, Recognition of ............. -·········----·· ...................
........348

Golden West Lodge-Dispensation for .......... .
........... 343
Charter for ·······-·········································
··············
Grand Lecturer-Annual Report
··························· .................. 51.3
427
Grand Lodge-Assets
• 5l7
Interest Collected on
List of Officers
. . .................... 278, 526
List of Representatives
Officers, Installation
Officers Present at Opening ............ .
···························· ................. 278
Prayer at Opening ··················································· .................. 280
Receipts Dtiring the
Warrants Drawn During the Year_........
...... ·-···············-·····349
Grand Lodges-Recognition of ··-· --···-··········..........348, 474. 525
List of ........................
.................
·····················--······ .. ····552
Grand Lodge Library-Books Received ..
Grand Officers Elected ·····- -·············-.............................. :::::::::::.::::::::·..........
Grand Master-Address of
Accusation, What
Admission of Visitor ·····--···························--··············· ................. .293, 382
Amendment to Proposed Amendment to By-Laws ....................... .297
Attorney at Law, Not a Mason, May Not Act as Counsel at
Masonic Trial ········································---················--·····················292
Ballot Box, Preparation of Before Each Ballot.. ..........................291
Boards of Relief, Who May Not Join in Organization ..... .292, 381
Card Games During Lodge Hours ____ ······-·············
.334
Clandestine Masonry ···············-·
.. 327
Comment as to Summarv
Committee on Address •
419
Conference of Grand Masters..............
···················--- .......... .304
Dead of Other Jurisdictions
................................................ .299
Decisions of
380
Dirnit, Application for, for Purpose of Engaging in Saloon
Business ·····-····-··········-··········--····--··················-···-------·························293
Diplomas May Be Purchased from YVhat Fund ................ 297-8 381
Dispensations Granted ·························-·······································.287: 501
Dye, James E., Appreciation of Services····-························-···--·· ... 324
Elections. Amendment to Section 135 Recommended ....298, 382. 4i3
Employment Bureaus ··----···-···················-·-····330, 336, 357, 368, 373. 377
France, National Grand Lodge oL .... -.................................... 308, 474
Funerals, Presiding at in Uniform of Knight Templar... .288, 381
Henry S. Orme Lodge ... ·········-····················· ................................. .284
Inspectors ··-···················-···· ............................. ...........................
...321
Italy, Grand Orient
525
Joint Ownership of Ruilding and Furniture .. ···················- ··-····---292

:~i~

Fac~·-·5i;·;~i<l B~ s~~;~<l·;·;;:::::::::

....... ::::::::::;~~

I

i
r

i

v

INDEX

INDEX

Grand Secretary's Report-Continued.
Receipts of Grand Lodge During Year.. .... _
.........354
Special Relief Fund, Condition oL·----····---··· .............. _
...348
Sttspensions, and a Possible Remedy ______ ............. .
..345
Trial Records, List of... ....... .
...... __ 346
\Varrants Drawn During Year
·········
______ 349
Grand Treasurer's Report ..... ..
······-----339

H
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21-Trial
481
Henderson, Orrin S.-Rcsolntions Introduced_ .... _
.... 338, 423. 486
Henry S. Orme Lodge-Reference to by Grand l\fastcr..... .............. .284
Dispensation for ·---·-·· _.................. ___ ----................................ ______ ... ___ 344
Charter Granted ..... _............... _.
______ 513
Hollenbeck Lodge Xo. 319-Trial Record.....
..... ____ 346, 481
Hughes, Matt S.-Oration of... ... ____ ...........
.... -------------- .. ..490
Humboldt Lodge No. 79-Trial Record.
...... 346. 481
Hunt, James S.-F11neral of......
..... .286

I
Inspectors-Grand l\faster's Commendation
Stationery for ........................ _____ _
Italy, Grand Orient

....

.............. 321
...425, 527
"Y
J_J

J
Jewel, Past Master's, Proposed
and
Jewel Lodge No. 374-Trial Record, Reversed ....... .
.
346. 510
Johnson, Harry S.-Apprcciation of Services ...... .
............. 349
Joint Ownership of Building and Furniture ...... _..........
...292
Jurisdiction-Claim of Perpetual hv Pennsvlvania.. ..... ....... ______________ 303
'Naiver l\fay Be Granted to Permit Resident of California to
Petition Elsewhere ..................-.... ___
............ 296, 381
\Naiver of, Right to Fee When Granted ... ·····--··---.. ..429
Of Lodges with Reference to Application for Affiliati011 .. 295. 381

K
Kennett Lodge-Charter Granted .. -............. _......
...... . _....... 513
Dispensation for .............. _.. ___ ............. ___ ............. . . ........................... 344
Kettner, \Villiam-Contribution of Books _____ ..........
····-··-··········349
Installation of .................................. ·----·-········ .......................... _________ .. .285
King David's Lodge No. 209-Rcimbursemen.'1: for Relief Extended ... 521
Knights, Mrs. Helen-Contribution of Books...
..... ..........348

vii

L
Lambskin Aprons-Funds From Which May Be Purchased_ ....... 297, 381
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17-Trial Record ................................ 347, 481
La Puente Lodge No. 446-Constituted ............. ______ ., ....................... _.......... .284
481
Laurel Lodge :No. 245-Trial Record
Legend of the Temple-Presentation of Drama ____ .................. _. _____ ... 336, 5ll
Library Committee-Report of.................·--------............... ·-··-··-.. ·-·---------·······-·504
Library of Grand Lodge-Books Received ............. -........................... --...... -348
Life l\Iemberships-List of Lodges Establishing ............................... ___ .. 348
Proposal to Grant to Aged :VIembers...... . ...............
. ......-.. ..430
Proposal to Present to Retiring Masters ......................... _. _______ .. .431
Relative to Granting to Aged Members.---------.................. ---·········· ...323
List of Grand Lodges in the United States ................................................. 552
Grand Lodge Officers Since Organization ..................................... __ .548
Lodges in This Ju risdiction ..........--.. ··---·······--................ _.................... ___ 532
Standing Committees .......................................
.......................-..... 529
Trial Records ·---.................... __________________ ..................
.. ..................346
......... 296, 381
Lodge Must Hold Election Each Year.........................
New, Status of Members with Reference to Former .Membership .......... --·---········.......... _........................ -.......................... _. _____ ........ 447
Treasurer and Secretary, Bonding of.. ........................ -------······-........430
Lodges-Alp!Jabetical List of ·--············---· ................................ -.................. _.553
Alphabetical Location of...............---------........................................... _____ 562
Amounts Allowed to Representatives .................. ---·············--.. -····· .... 434
Card Games During Lodge Hours...........
...................... _........334
Chartered This Session ......... _....... ............ ......
-----------·····---513
Consolidations Recommended .................
.. ..................... 325, 449
..... __ .................284
Constituted ......................... __ ................. -..... _____
Letters to from Grand Master....................
............ ---···· .......... 329
List of ...................... -.... ··---·--···------·····--···· ---.......................
.. ......... 532
List of Extinct .................. __ ............ - ....................
................ 544
Membership 1915 ._ .. _......................................... -... -................... 343, 345
Middle Chamber Pillars N ceessary
................. 297, 501-2
"Moon Dates" .. ., __ .........................
.......................... _____ 531
Number of in Jurisdiction --..............
................ __ ... 343
Report of Committee on Returns of.........
....... _________ .............. .433
... _.335, 474, 523
Los Angeles-Proposed Communications at...____

M
Massachusetts, Grand Lodge of and G. H. G. McGrew ........... -....307, 443
J\fasonic Charities-Grand Master's Reference
335
Masonic Education-Appointment of Committee on ................. -.. ------------329
Circular Relating to ......... ·-----···-.
·················--······-··· ............ 333
Report of Committee 011... ............... --- .............................. -................. 505

viii

INDEX

Masonic Employment Bureaus-Reference to ................................ 330, 336
Reports of .................................................................... 357, 368, 373, 377
Masonic Homes-Report of Trustees ............................................................ 389
Adoption of Report ................................................................................ 475
Commendation of Grand Master ........................................................ 320
Deaths During the Year.. ..................................................................... .417
Decoto Home ............................................
......................................... 389
Departures from San Gabriel... .............................................................419
Donations to ............................................................................................ 407
Excursion to Decoto ............................................................................449
Financial Reports ................................................................................... 396
Grand ;\Iaster's Remarks Concerning............................................... 320
Hospital, Need for Additional Room..........
..................... 390
New Dormitory for Men.......................
..................................... 389
Per Capita Tax for Maintenance.....
..................... 523
Receipts for Year .................................................................................. 356
Request to Place Widow of Dimited .i\Iason ................................. 522
Residents at Decoto, Nam es of.. ...................................................... .413
Residents at San Gabriel, Names of.. ................................................. .417
Resignation of Mrs. Alexander, l\Iatron .......................................... 394
Report of Endowment Committee .................................................... .475
Report of Secretary ......................................... ...........................
.... 395
Report of Superintendent..............................
............................... 400
Report of Treasurer ........................................................................ 340-1
Sale of Property at San Gabriel... ..................................................... 391
San Gabriel Home ......................................
.................................... 391
Spencer, Edward B .. Thanks to .............. .
... 392
Thanks to Trustees by Grand Lodge
...... 503
Visit of Children to Exposition .......... .
.......... 331
Visitors to ................................................. .
..... .405
Masonic Sanatorium, X ational... .................................. .
.................. 310
Masonic Temple Association-Appropriation for Stock ..
.............. 524
Grand l\Iaster's Observations on ............. .
............. 317
Report of Board of Directors.............
................... 383
Masonic Titlcs-l}se of ................................................
......................... 338
Report of Special Committee on Use of.......
......... .486
Masonic War Relief Association.................
.......... 310, 332
Master, Admission of Visitor........................... ................
............ 293, 382
McGrew Case, The ...........................................
............. 307, 443
Middle Chamber Pillars, X ecessary...........
....... .297. 501-2
Midway Lodge Xo. 426-Trial Record.......
.............................. 346. 481
Miller, Frank ]., Grand l\Iaster of Oregon-Reception of
..... .433
Mission Lodge Xo. 169-Trial Record.................................
...... 346, 481
"Moon Dates" .......................................................
....... 531
Moneta Lodge X o. 405-Trial Records
............. 346, 481, 482, 483, 485

IXDEX
Montebello Lodge No. 451-Constituted ................................... .
Mount Diablo Lodge X o. 448-Constituted .. .
Mount Oso Lodge-Dispensation for.. ....... .

IX

.... 284
........... .284
..... 344

N
Nathan, Ernesto-Conference with ..................................................... 309, 525
Necrology ........... ....................... .............. ..
........... 299
..... .284. 343
New Lodges .....

0
Oak Grove Lodge X o. 215-Reimbursement for Relief Extended ..... .520
Oakland Board of Relief-Reimbursement for Relief Extended ........ 522
Objection Before Ballot Not Valid ................................................... .296, 381
Objection to Visitor, Master Shall Determine if Good ................... .293, 382
Office-Fee for Dispensation in Case of Vacancy ............................ 287, 448
Officers Must Be Elected Each Year ................................................ 296, 381
Officers-Vote Necessary to Elect.................................
........ 298, 382, 473
Officers of Grand Lodge ........................................................................... .278, 526
Officers of Grand Lodge Since Organization .............................................. 548
Oration by Matt S. Hughes, Grand Orator ................................................ .490
Oregon-Correspondence Relative to Conference of Grand l\Iasters .... 304
Orme, Henry S. Lodge-Reference to ..................................... .284, 344, 513
Orphan-Definition of Tenn..........................
..294. 382, 428
Owens, Henry M.-Contribution of Books.
....... 349

p
Panama-Pacific Exposition-Visit of Children to..
...................... 331
Paraphernalia Required for Conferring Degrees
......... .297, 501-2
Park Lodge No. 449-Constituted...............................
. ............. .284
Pascoe, Joseph N.-Relative to Petition for Restoration ....................... 380
Past Grand Masters-Portraits of.. .............~---·········· ................................. 528
Past Master Defined ....................................................................................... .293
Past Master-Proposal to Present Life l\Iembership to
..... .431
Past Master J ewe!, Proposed Design and Cost....
..431
Peace Proposals .......................
...... 511
Pennsylvania-Clanclestine :Masonry in...............
. ... 328
Reference to Perpetual Jurisdiction in..
...... 303
Perkins, George C.-l\Iessage to, and Response..
.... 338
Petitioner Prematurely Elected-Remedy .....
.......... .290. 381
Porterville Lodge No. 303-Trial Record
.346, 481
Portraits of Past Grand l\f asters, Relative to
..................... 528
Prayer at Opening of Grand Lodge...
............... .280

x

INDEX

TN DEX

Q
Queensland, Grand Lodge of, Recognition

421

R
Ramona Lodge-Dispensation for .
················· ................................ 344
Charter for ............... ......................
................................................. .513
Reading Lodge No. 254-Reimbursement for Relief ExtendecL. ..... 520
Recognition-Grand Lodge of
Relative to..................... ....... ..474
Grand Orient of Italy ...................... ...............................
..525
Grand Lodge of
Relations with Other Jurisdictions ......................................................... 302
Relief Extended to Sojourners .................................... .359, 365, 370, 373, 376
Grand Master's Observations on ..............................................321, 335
Proposed Amendment to Section
508
Reference to Reimbursement
528
Scottish Lodges .............................................
............................. 349
Special Fund, Condition 0£... .............................................................. 348
War Sufferers ....................................
........................... 310, 332
Reports of Committees-Accounts ......................
.................... .423
By-Laws .......................................................................................... .433, 502
Charters .................................................................................................. 512
Credentials ...............................................
............................ 450
Endowment of Homes.........................................
...............475
Finance-Boards of Relief ....... .........................
........................518
Inspectors, Stationery for ................
.................... 527
king David's Lodge No. 209.......
...... 521
Loan to El Centro Building Association ...................... 377. 520
Masonic Homes Per Capita Tax..............
............ 52.3
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215........................
............... 520
Oakland Board of Relief .................
......... 522
Mileage, Samuel H. Crow.............
......................... 524
Portrait of Grand ?.faster..........
...... 519
Reading Lodge No. 254.......... . ...................................... 520
Reimbursement for Unauthorized Relief.. ........................ 528
Resolution to Meet at Los Angeles, Rclati,·e to ............... 523
Salaries ....................................................................................... 518
San Mateo Lodge No. 226.......................................................... 524
Grievances and Appeals-Omnibus Report .....
................. .481
Trials-Jewel Lodge No. 374, Record No. 175 .................... 510
Tria!s-:.Ioncta Lodge No. 405, Records Nos. 179, 180.
184 ... ..... ...................................... ............ .......
.... 482-5

xi

Reports of Committees-Continued.
J nrisprudcnce-Admission of
382
Affiliation, J nrisdiction of Lodges as to ....................... .295, 381
Amendment to Proposed Amendment to By Laws .... 297, 381
Attorney, \Vho May Not Act as Counsel at Masonic
Trial ...............................................
...... 292, 381
Ballot Box, Preparation of Before Each Ballot ............ 291, 381
Boards of Relief, \Vho :\Iay X ot Join in Organization ............................................................................... 292, 381
Bonding of Treasurer and Secretary of Lodge..... ....... .430
Consolidation of Lodges, Amendment to Constitution ... .449
Decisions of Grand Master ........................
... 288, 380
111
Dimit,
for, for Purpose of
Saloon Business ....................................................... .293. 381
Diplomas, l\fay Be Purchased From What Fund ....297 8, 381
Dispensation Cannot Issue for Resident to Petition in
Another Jurisdiction .........
............ 296, 381
On Dispensations Issued by Grand :\faster........
..... 501
Election .Must Be Held Each Year ............................... .296, 381
Fee for Dispensation to Fill Vacancy in Office ............... .44<1.
Formation of N cw Lodge, Status of Members .............. ..447
Increasing l\ umber of Members of Committee .............. 509
Joint Ownership of Building and Furniturc ........... .292, 381
Lambskin Aprons, From \Vhat Funds !\.Iay Be Purchased
381
Life Membership--Proposal to Grant to Aged l\Icmbers ..430
l\lcGrew Case, The ....................................
...................... ..443
Middle Chamber Pillars ..... ................
. ................. .297, 501-2
...... .298, 382, 473
Officers, Vote Necessary to Elect .....
.. Orphan," Definition of Term................... .......... 294, 382, 428
Pascoe, Joseph N.-Rclative to Petition for Restoration
.................................................................................... 380
Past ]\faster Defined
381
Past l\Iastcr's Jewel-Proposed Design and CosL ........ ..431
Past l\Iaster-Proposal to Present Life ?.Iemhcrship to .. ..431
Peace Proposals ..........................................
.............. 51 l
Petitioner Prematurely Ekctcd ................................. .290, 381
Presiding at Funeral in l.'niform of Knight Tcmplar
381
Saloou Keeper Defined .............................. ................290, 381
Trial Commission, When Judgment :May Not Be Set
Aside .......................... ..............................
........... .449
Trial Records, Use of in State Courts ........................ .297, 381
Trials-Procedure \Vhcn Member Triecl in Another
Jurisdiction .... ....................
.................
........... .3713

I
xii

I~DEX

IX DEX

Reports of Committees-Jurisprndenc<'-Contim ~d.
Trials-Procedure on Retrial ............................................ 295
Use of Receipt in Lieu of Dimit, Section 161c................ 512
Violation of Sumptuary Law Not :t\ ecessarily Un-

T

u

::s~~i~ ~j~dl~~-;~;;::.::ii~i~-~--~;--re~··\v·l;;;~--(~~;;;~;d::::::!~~

W ai
Library ........................................ ............................................................ 504
.:\Iasonic Education ....................... .....................
........................ 505
Use of ~Iasonic Titles, Special Committee on ............................... 486
Pay of .Members ...... ....................................
............ 514
Returns of Lodges ..
................. .433
Reports of Grand Officers-Grand Lecturer....
.. ...423, 427, 517
Grand Secretary ....................................... ....
........... 343, 42Q
Grand Treasurer .................
..... ......... ....
...... 339
Representatives to Grand Lodgc-~1ileage Allowed..
. ................. ..434
Resolutions-Loan to El Centro Building Association ................... 377, 520
Use of .Masonic Titles ...... ..................................
.............. ..423. 486
Returns of Lodges-Report of Committee 011.........
. ................... .433
Ritchie, Charles H.-Installation oL.......
. ....285
Riverbank Lodge-Dispensation for ....
.... 343
Charter for ......................................
.. . ...... .........
.... 513

s
Sachse. Julius F.-Contrilmtion of Books
......... 349
Saloon Bminess-Pctitioner Intending to Engage in ...................... 289, 381
Dim it Will X ot Absolve Mason From Trial.................. ....... 293-4
Defined ......
...................................................................................... .290
Violation of Sumptuary Law Not l\'ecessarily Unmasonic ....... .291
Sanatorium, l\'ational l\fasonic .................................................................... 310
San Mateo Lodge Xo. 226-Rcimbursement for Relief Extended ........ 524
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452-Constitutcd...........
.......... .284
Sawin, Lee C.-Appreciation of Services.........
.....................324
Schofield Lodge No. 443-Constituted ..............................
.............. .284
Selma Lodge Xo. 277-Consolidated with Fowler No. 398
..... 345
Sherman, \:Villiam A.-A.pprcciation of Services.....
........324
South Gate Lodge N n. 320-Trial
481
South West Lodge No. 283-Trial Record....
........ 347, 481
Special Communications of Grand Lodge..................
...................... .285
Spencer, Edward H.--Apprcciation of Services
.... 392
Standard Lodge Ko. 440-Constitutcd
·····--·················-284
Stephens, Joseph H.-Appointed on Finance Committee...
.......... 509
Installation of
Sus1w11siuns. and a Possible Remedy .... .
.........................................345
Suspensions. Li:;t of.. ....
.................... .
..........................346

xiii

I
r

!

346, 481
Temescal Lodge No. 314-Trial Record ............................. ·
Temple, Masonic-Appropriation for
....... 317
Grand :Master's Remarks
Report of Directors
Thanks lo Jesse :\I.
Thanks to Trustees Masonic
..... 284
Torrance Lodge No. 447-Constituted........
······················
Trials-Aecnsation, What Fact Should Be Stated in..................
...327
Amendment to Law Recommended ...........................................326. 378
Grand 1\foster's Comment as to Summary Punishment.
..323
Judgment May Not Be Set Aside, When..........
.449
Procedure on Retrial
Procedure When Member Tried in Another Jurisdiction ...........378
481
Trial Records
481

u
Use of 2.lasonic Titles--Report of Special Committee on ...................486

v
Vacancv in Office-Fee for Dispensation in Case of
Van X ~1.VS Lodge No. 450-Constituted
Visit of Children to
Visitor, Admission of

........ .287, 448

w
Waiver of Jurisdiction-Right to Fee When Granted ..........................429
\Var Relief Association
\Vest Lake Lodge No. 392-Laymg of Corner Stone and Dedication
of Hall
Trial Record
·Wilshire Lodge No.
\\'hited, Jesse l\1.-Prcsrntation
Thanks to

