One copy of this book of Proceedings is sent
to each Lodge in the Jurisdiction
addressed to the Secretary

IT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE LODGE
TO BE KEPT ON FILE FOR
REFERENC E

•

HERBERT A. HUEBNER
GRAND MASTER OCTOBER 16, 1970- 0cTOBER 15 1 1971

Herbert A. (Herb) Huebner is known as a "Mason's Mason." Bear witness
this with his election as Chairman of the Conference of Grand Masters of
;ortb.America in February, 1971, convened in Washington, D.C.. Throughout
Jail Grand Lodge activities he tempered justice with mercy and compassion.
M the 104th Grand Master of this jurisdiction his reputation for sound
]eadership is renowned. Herb's legal background served him well. He demands
the facts seeks counsel and then makes his determinations. Always his
tbollgbts ~re for the benefit of the Craft and the image of Freemasonry. Herb
is a man befitting the Rank; serious, dedicated, able to move to what ever
tevel he is called. Recall his custom of circulating among his Brethren to
Issue warm words of friendship and greetings to those known and unknoW11
to him. Others will recall his stem, yet scholarly admonitions, decisions and
actions which reflect his burning desire to create unity, growth and respect

for Masonry.
Our Grand Master was born in Washington, D. C. in 1902 and moved to
• Fresno in 1906 with his family. There he attended public schools and in
1920 came to Southern California and attended the University of Southern
California. After completing his undergraduate work and only two years of
Jaw school he took the California Bar Examination, passed it and commenced
bis cllstinguished career in patent law in 1926. In 1936 he became a member
also of the New York Bar.
Professionally, he served industry as a corporate patent counsel in New
York for seven years and later, upon returning to California, became founder
and present senior partner of his patent law firm in Los Angeles and Fresno.

In 1925 he married a native daughter, Lorna Pierce, the daughter of a
distinguished Los Angeles physician and surgeon. A son Harlan, a daughterin-law Joan, three granddaughters Jo-Ellen, Lori and Libby and a brother Jim
complete his immediate family. Harlan as a young man was active in
DeMolay, in due time became a Past Master of Wilshire Lodge No. 445, and
bas been serving Grand Lodge as Chairman of the Code Commission and Code
Revision Committee.

HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Herb's Masonic life commenced in 1938 when he was raised in Wilshire
Lodge No. 445. While serving as Master of that Lodge in 1944 he was active
u a member of the Grievances Committee of Grand Lodge. He has served on
the History Committee and Chairman of the Charters and Public Schools
Committees. Intervening he was Grand Orator in 1954. It was during that
)'Mr after a constitution ceremony he was inspired to compose the poem

Grand Master
October 16, 1970 - October 15, 1971

iii

"Faith of Our Fathers," dedicated to Masomy. It formed the conclusion .of
his Grand Oration found in the 1954 proceedings. October of 1967 saw him
elected Junior Gr~d Warden and thence electively elevated to Grand Master
in October, 1970.

GRAND LoDGE OF CALIFORNIA

Herb is also a long time member of Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies
being decorated with the rank of K.C.C.H. He is a member of Knights
Templar Red Cross of Constantine, Al Malaikah Shrine and Honorary Member DeMolay Legion of Honor, and other masonically affiliated organi?.ations.

I, EowARD H. SIEMS, Grand Secretary of the M:.w:. Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do hereby certify
that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one hundred twenty-second Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on Monday, the 11th day
of October, A. L. 5971, and terminated on Friday, the 15th day of October,
A. L. 5971.

Our Grand Master throughout his busy Masonic career has also found
time to follow the admonition of Abraham Lincoln for a lawyer "to devote
time to his profession." He is a former member, Board of Managers, American
Patent Law Association, past Chairman of the Patent Conference, California
Bar Association and past President of the Patent Law Association of Los
Angeles. Brother Herb also served for several years on the Regional Export
Expansion Council. He has been a member of the Los Angeles Rotary Club
for more than 25 years. In religious faith he is a Presbyterian.
His charm, friendly smile, warm greetings and affection for Masons
"withersoever dispursed," and his ability to lead yet not dictate, make him
truly a Grand Master.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M:.w:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California,
at the office of the Grand Secretary,
this first day of November, in the
year of Light, five thousand nine
hundred and seventy-one.

v

iv

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S

of

THE M:.W:.GR AND LODGE
· of

OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS
122ND ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, 0cTOBER 11, A.D. 1971, A.L. 5971
AND TERMINATING ON

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, A.D. 1971, A.L. 5971
Copyright @ 1971 by Gr&Dd Lodge F. & A. M. of California
Printed in the United States of America. All rights In this book are reserved.

No part thereof may be reproduced In any manner whatsoever without written
permissiOll from the Grand Lodge of California, e:i:c:ept that quotations may

be embodied in reviews by such otber Grand ] misdictlom as have been
recopiud ollicially by this Grand Lodge. FOl' Information lddress Grand
Secretary, 1111 Ca!Jfomia Street, San Francisco, Califomia 94108.

1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-SECOND
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California commenced its One Hundred Twenty-Second Annual
OJamlunication in the California Masonic Memorial Temple on October 11,
A. L. 5971, at 10:00 A.M. Grand Lodge was raised by Worshipful Harlan P.
Huebner Past Master of Wilshire Lodge No. 445, son of Most Worshipful
Herbert 'A. Huebner, Grand Master, and Worshipful George L. Senyohl,
Master of Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
ELECTED OFFICERS
w:.w:.IIERBERT A. HUEBNER •.•. .. ........ ...... ...•• . Grand Master
R.".W.".LEsTER S. McELWAIN ................. . Deputy Grand Master
R:.W.".WILLIAM H. PRICE ••••..... ........... . . Senior Grand Warden
R:.W.".R.AYMOND A. EBBAGE ................... . Junior Grand Warden
v:.W.'.CHESTER R. MACPHEE •.................... . Grand Treasurer
v:.W.'.EDWARD H. SIEMS •••••.. .... ......... ...... . Grand Secretary
v:. w: .H. DOUGLAS LEMONS •........................ Grand Lecturer
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
V.' .R.' .ROLAND R. BACH ................ ...... ...... Grand Chaplain
W.'.BURTON 0. YOUNG •••.. ............. . Assistant Grand Lecturer
W." .EDWARD E. SEAGLE •................. . Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.".ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS ... .......... . Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.".WALLACE H. FISKE .•.•.............. . Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.".GEORGE W. PERKINS .•............... . Assistant Grand Lecturer
W." .ERNEST M. NEWTON . ............... •Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ',BURTON MEYER, JR •.................••...•.. .. •Grand Orator
W. ·.ARTHUR LINSK ••.•.•.. ............ . Assistant Grand Treasurer
W.'.VERNE W. HENDRIX .... ........... . Assistant Grand Secretary
W.".DEWALD M. BAUM ••.................•••.•.. . Grand Marshal
W.'.RoBERT L. MARSHALL ................. . Grand Standard Bearer
W.".KENNETH B. CONKLIN •.......... .... .•• . Grand Sword Bearer
w: .JOHN M. BOWERSOX •••.•................ .Grand Bible Bearer
W.".PHILLIP B. STONE •.••.................. . Senior Grand Deacon
W.' .ROBERT 0. WEST •••...................• .Junior Grand Deacon
W.".liARRY E. HIRAOKA ••.•••. .... ....... ..• . Senior Grand Steward
W.".WILLIAM K. McKEE, JR................ .Junior Grand Steward
W.'.JoHN H. BROWN •••••••••............ .. ... . Grand Pursuivant
W.".HARoLD MUELLER ••...••................•••• . Grand Organist
w:.TuoMAS J. McK!MSON ......... .......... ...... •Grand Tiler

4

s

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND OFFICERS

GAVELS

PAST GRAND MASTERS

presented to him on those occasions by the Lodges, Districts or Associations.

Gavels used by the Grand Master during the ceremonies indicated were
M.".W.".EDwARD H. SmMs
M.".W.".L. HAROLD ANDERSON
M.".W.".LEO E. ANDERSON
M.".W.".GUY B. MIZE
M:.w:.IRA w. CoBURN
M.".W.".ELMER w. HEALD

M.".W.".THEODORE MERIAM
M.".W.".MYRON E. SMITH
M.".W.".LAURENCE E. DAYTON
M.".W.".EUGENE s. HOPP
M:.w:.RoBERT A. CRIGLER
M.".W.".CHESTER R. MACPHEE

PAST GRAND TREASURER
v:.w:.PAUL A. PFLUEGER

They were employed at various times during this Communication:
Cornerstone Ceremony -

Masonic Temple National City.

Breakfasts- Districts Nos. 606, 610, 618; Altadena No. 678.
Anniversaries - 15th, Needles No. 326; Long Beach No. 327; Whittier
No. 323. - lOOth, San Buenaventura No. 214; Monterey No. 217; Mozaic
No. 218.
Receptions- Inglewood No. 421 Beefsteak. feed; Golden Valley No. 796;
Long Beach Masters and Wardens Association; Sacramento Masters and
Wardens Association; Southern DeMolay League.

PAST GRAND LECTURER
v:.w:.DoNALD G. CAMPBELL

MEMORIAL SERVICE
DEVOTIONAL AND NECROLOGY

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, following
which the Flag of our Country was received.
There were 1267 officers and representatives from 700 chartered Lodges
and one Lodge under dispensation, 1236 Past Masters and 21 distinguished
guests from other jurisdictions present during this Communication.

"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" ........ Harold Mueller, Grand Organist

APPOINTMENTS
The Grand Master announced the following appointments to serve during
the Communication:
Laurence E. Dayton, Past Grand Master, to the Committee on Jurisprudence; Theodore Meriam, Past Grand Master, to serve as Acting Chairman
of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes; Joseph T. Hom, Master
of Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672, to the Committee on Finance.
The Deputy Grand Master announced the appointment of Ralph W.
Winters as Chairman, Vernon L. Gordon and Daniel D. Rowlands as members of the Committee on Distribution.

Invocation and Devotional ..... : ........ Roland R. Bach, Grand Chaplain

Mood Music from John S. Bach ........................ Grand Organist
Report of Committee on Necrology ...... Edward A. Underwood, Chairman
Eulogies:
Alfred F. Breslauer .............................•. Eugene S. Hopp
Elbert W. Davis .............................. Donald G. Campbell
Benediction •........................................ Grand Chaplain
Taps .............................................. Leon J. Whitsell
/tnJocation - Devotional

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Members of the Grand Lodge:

In preparation for this morning's Devotional Service, I have read the
~es of many of my very distinquished predecessors to find out just what

TELEGRAMS
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send appropriate
telegrams to each of the absent Past Grand Masters.
During the session the Grand Secretary read congratulatory messages
received from other Grand Jurisdictions and concordant groups.

form and length this presentation should take. This was not, I remind you,
that I would follow such form - but that possibly I might have some guide
lines in this assignment.
I found it almost a pattern that my very worthy and reverend brethren
began with words of appreciation, directed to the Grand Master for permitting
them the opportunity of serving in this very worthy station. I will not do this.

6

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I believe I have, during my Chaplaincy, informed the Grand Master re.
peatedly of my pleasure in working with him and with his officers - but - I
have done it in another way. I have informed him that he used a superlative
degree of wisdom when he appointed me as the Grand Chaplain. I have also
mentioned to him and to the appointed and to the elected brethren how
fortunate they were to have me as their Chaplain. This appointment was
one of the best of the Grand Masters selections.
.To change the. mood just a bit, I have traveled with many groups, delegations and committees and without reservation I can report that these, your
officers, have been superior. The roster of the attendance of Grand Lodge
officers at Grand Lodge functions has been remarkable. There were lighthearted times of fellowship, all within the bounds of propriety, but always
the serious responsibilities of Grand Lodge assignments were carried out in
the dignified manner which these tasks demand. These duties, well performed
brought honor and dignity to the Grand Lodge. I wish to voice publicly m~
respect and fraternal love for each of my Grand Lodge brethren and my admiration for the manner in which they carried out the responsibilities of
their respective offices.
Many temptations present themselves as one contemplates the opportunities which are afforded a Chaplain on an occasion such as this. Here is a
splendi.d, a captive audience of well informed Master Masons. What an opportumty to promote a pet theme or scheme!
Naturally I had a full year in which to prepare this message. Quite
naturally I waited. until October came, and then a little longer, before writing
a word of that which I am to say today. Oh yes, the thought of what I might
say has haunted me for months. Sometimes I had some brilliant ideas even
in the middle of the night, but I refrained from making hurried notes. Afways,
I thought, some real inspiration will come! Finally, in all seriousness I faced
the fact that the time was almost now and I had better get to work:
Many years ago, in another State, I was given a monitor. At that time
quite by habit, I turned to an explanation of the Grand Chaplain's duties'.
Naturally, I never expected to find myself in such position. Now, so many
years later, I recalled what a profound impression this reading had made
on me. In keeping with my philosophy, that there is no such thing as
chance or of luck, that nothing ever "just happens" but that everything is
for a purpose, I found my old monitor. Now, almost forty-two years have
passed since I received it and time and again in my packing and moving I
d~ided ~o. discard it, but, here it was. Then all thoughts of bringing something bnlliant and popular left my mind. I felt that I had truly found the
key to that which I am to say today. Let me share this with you. It is taken
from the Installation Ceremony in another jurisdiction. The installation of
the Grand Chaplain reads: "Reverend and Worshipful Brother that book
which is the chart and textbook of your sacred calling, is also th~ great light
of Masonry, and forever sheds its benign rays upon every lawful assembly

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

free and Accepted Masons. Teach us from its life-giving precepts; inter-

Cllle for us with the Divine Majesty which it so fully reveals and unfolds to

and warm us with the lessons of infinite wisdom and truth, and you will
: . faithfully performed your sacred functions and fulfilled your important
trUll· It is fitting that an emblem of that sacred volume should be the jewel
of your office - - - ." What a splendid explanation of a Chaplain's duties!
DuriJJg the year I instinctively endeavored to live by this teaching; how
JDuch better had I read the words so much earlier in my Masonic Chaplaincy.
But that is past and there is still this my message. Suffice, I found the theme
uiJ' the inspiration for which I had been seeking.
In p.ieparation for a message to "warm us with lessons of infinite wisdom
and truth" I turned to a rereading of the Old Testament prophets. Masons
would do well to turn to this source for readings that will educate, inform
and edify with thoughts Masonic.
In Isaiah 6: 1-8 I found again a very beautiful story, simply told. These
events took place 2 700 years ago. This is my interpretation of the meaning
of the story: It tells of a young man who had placed his trust in a young
lting. He, and some of his young friends were certain that their future, honors
and assignments, depended on the King. Suddenly the King died. Greatly
saddened the young men sought and found, through a remarkable religious
emperience, much more than an earthly King could ever have provided.
Answering His call to service they realized their own unworthiness, were
cJeam;ed of their sins and iniquities, and prepared to serve "The Lord of
Hosts." With that as a background let me now recite the account as you will
find it recorded in your Bible, the Book of Isaiah, Chapter VI- Verse 1-8:
"In the year that King Uzziah died I also saw the Lord sitting upon a
throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood
the Seraphims: each one had six wings; with twain he covered his face, with
twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto
another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord of hosts: the whole earth is
filled.with his glory. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him
that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Then said I, Woe is me!
for I am undone; because I am a man of unclean lips and dwell in the midst
of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, The Lord of
Hosts. Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his
hand, which he had taken with tongs from the altar: And he laid it upon my
mouth and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips: and thine iniquity is taken
away, and thy sin is purged. Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying,
Whom shall I send and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I; send me."
So, in this account, so movingly told, we seem to hear, vicariously, a call
to service, and after a preparation, a correct answer: "Send me!" And so,
void of the drama, of course, calls of "Whom shall I send!" or "Who will
take this as&gnment?" or "Here is a job which should be done!" has come
to many of us. Just because it lacks the drama does not make the assignment

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

less important when it comes to us for community service, church or synagogue, or lodge-connected opportunity. "Whom shall I send" seems to echo
in each lodge, in every community. Certainly our work would prosper even
more if, instead of our usual, "I'm too busy," we might hear someone say,
"Here I am, I'll do it." Then our youth work and our lodge work and our
community activities and our church and synagogue would take on new
life and prosper. Our youth organizations are waiting for such an affirmative
reply I
Having heard such a call, those who are sincere, may well examine themselves and say, "What really does the Lord require of me?" Again I turn to
the Old Testament and in Micah 6:8 I find an answer, clear and unmistakable:
"The Lord hath shown thee 0 man," says Micah, "what is good. And what
does the Lord require of thee but to do justly, to love mercy and to walk
humbly with they God." Hear it again:
1. To do justly - which means, be upright and honest.
2. To love mercy - which means, deal mildly even when severity might
be justified and expected.
3. Walk humbly with thy God - which means, free yourself from pride
and vanity, be unassuming.
So we are progressing: A call - and an experience - and an answer then another question, "What is required of me?" and again a divine reply.
Remarkable isn't it, that when we truly seek we find. Too many of us ask
questions feeling that there is no answer to these our questions, and since
we do not listen for an answer we are satisfied that there is no answer.
Answers are available for our most sincere questions: "Search and ye shall
find," is more than a very nice platitude for the prophet Jeremiah says:
"And ye shall seek me and find me, when ye shall search for me with all
your heart.,,
So, again we progress. We heard a call - experienced a cleansing received an explanatory answer to the question "What is required of me,"
and now move to the more intimate question; "How can I serve?" Many,
many years ago I served in the army in a Field Artillery battery. The battery
to which I was assigned was horse drawn. We traveled about twenty-five
miles each day. Picturesque, as I envision it now over this wide span of years.
I thrilled, and still do at the variety of bugle or trumpet calls. Then, of
course, we were guided and directed by bugle calls. There was an officers
call, a mess call, a charge, a retreat, reveille, taps and dozens of others.
The bugler had better be a man of temporate life and disposition for if his
call was not true and clear and certain he could well lead our battery to
disaster. There was no time to try and interpret a bugle or trumpet call. The
response had to be immediate, an instinctive reaction was necessary, the call
had to be certain. The scripture passage to which I now refer was written
by a soldier, a captain, a centurion and he writes, in 1 Corinthians 14:8
"For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

battle." Now, how does this scripture passage apply to us? During the
~ few years I have been greatly disturbed by the lack of faith and of
~ which our older generation has had in a younger generation.

JllaDY have appeared to have fallen victims to a great whispering campaign

which set out to degrade our youth, and that indiscriminately. That our

,-th needs direction is certain, that it merits our ridicule is questionable.

1'Jle trouble appears to lie in the fact that, like in so many other circumstances
1"I Jump them all into one grouping. Our young people do not deserve such
..,mcation. It would be as right to call all Masons unworthy of respect
blc&1JSe of the actions of a very few. Actually, our statistics would indicate

that a mere 2% of our youth has been getting the head-line treatment and
.tortunately many are branding all of our youth with the brand that a
mere 2% deserve. I am also interested in an 18% of our young people
wbo are even now making a decision whether to choose the high-road or the
low. It is for this 18% and for the 80% who are good, clean and honorable
that I plead. I direct my pleas to you through this scripture passage: "If
die trumpet give an uncertain sound, who will prepare himself for the battle."
Which means to me, that if we as adults can not speak with a certain voice,
how can we expect our youth to follow the high-road to honest, right living.
If we cannot solve the major lessons of life, how can we expect our young
people to find the way? If we continue to damn everything that was the
dnam of our founding fathers how can we expect our youth to kneel at
our altars. It takes adults to mislead youth. Therefore, with all the strength
I can muster I beg of you do not let our young people down I We, in our
generation also had wild, wild dreams and unworthy ambitions. But if in your
case, as in mine there was a steadying influence of an adult, these wild
desires were properly classified and distinquished and life went on without
too much turmoil. It is this guidance which our young people are seeking, it
is this guidance which is lacking, it is this guidance which you can supply.
If the trumpet, if you as a God-fearing adult, do not speak out positively and
clearly on the issues we face and help to supply the answers our honest
seeking youth is requesting, then we are not speaking with a certain voice.
Can you imagine the effect on our youth if we here were dedicated to an
endeavor to understand their wishes, if we would foster and sponsor DeMolay
and our other youth groups - and I mean really sponsor them? If then it is
so difficult for us to distinquish between that which is right and that which
is wrong, how then are our young people to make their decisions? In stating
these things I give credit to the thousands of parents who have maintained
their ~mmunication with their children and grandchildren and to the many
~ have, after a break, reestablished such communication. If the trumpet,
If you, do not speak with a positive, and certain voices, our young people
will look elsewhere for their answers. Needless to say, there are many comIU.Dding and very positive voices which are ready and willing to lead our
10Uth down the low road to ruin. Please do not give up in this fight for the

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

moral life of our young people. They are good, they are honest, and the great
majority of them are trying to solve their problems. Do not brand them all
as "no good." Do not sell them short. They are more honest in their dealings
than my generation was!
So we take another step! We have heard a call - experienced a cleansing,
received an answer - had a suggestion to the question, "How can I serve?"
I return again to our Holy writings and find in the Book of Esther 4: 14
these words: "- - and who knoweth whether thou art come into the kingdom
for such a time as this?" Another translation reads: "Who knows whether
thou wast born for such a time as this." "Such a time as this" may mean
many things for many people. I will not grant that these are the world's worst
times. I will not grant that we have become so degraded that we can not find
our way out of this seeming jungle. If I read history correctly I must conclude
that this world has advanced out of darker ages into this present light. If this
were not true many of our efforts are already damned. As Masons we believe
that we are traveling from darkness to light. It would be a denial of all we
hold true if we were not. Who knows but that you were brought into this
world of Masonry for just such a time as this. A time when we must stand
together, that our search for truth, that our quest for light and that our hope
for a marvelous future might be realized.
I have only one more Scripture passage, but most important to us as
Masons. It is found in Hebrew 13: 1 and it reads: "Let brotherly love continue" just that, just as brief as that. "Let brotherly love continue!"
Now you may feel that I have regaled you with Bible passages. Usually
your clergyman uses only one Bible passage for his sermon. That it usual. But
you are not usual, and I am not usual and I think we can handle the Bible
passages I have quoted. Therefore in review, I have tried to explain to you
why I search Scripture for this mornings devotional service. I have tried to
explain the Bible passages:
1. "Here am I send me I "
2. "What does the Lord God require of thee?"
3. "For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound - - - ."
4. "Who knows but that thou wast born for such a time as this?"
5. "Let brotherly love continue."
Now, it is my sincere hope and my earnest prayer that I, in my own
peculiar way, may have obeyed that old mandate of a Grand Chaplain's
duties: "Reverend and Worshipful Brother, that book which is the chart and
textbook of your sacred calling, is also the great light of Masonry, and forever
sheds its benign rays upon every lawful assembly of Free and Accepted
Masons. Teach us from its life-giving precepts; intercede for us with the
Divine Majesty which it so fully unfolds and reveals to us; and warm us
with the lessons of infinite wisdom and truth, and you will have faithfully
performed your sacred functions and fulfilled your important trust."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

'this so1emn moment to remember our Masonic
. .,,
. .\Ve
are assembled m
~who have had a divine summons and have passed beyond the
fartaJs of our human lodges since last we met.
At. we walk in memories hall, we recall their virtues as true men and
JluODS and we give thanks to them for their lives of uprightness and honor.
W• rejoice, in the confident faith, that they, having lived well, do now dwell
with thee in a land fairer than our dreams.
J)uring the year, now closing, as in all the yester years, the grim reaper
... called to their heavenly home many of our most illustrious brethren.
The call of the roll reveals that 492 Masters, Past Masters and Wardens
aw departed from our midst. Their individual names and lodges will be
.ippended to and become a part of this report.
Sixty-seven lodges lost two each, thirty-two lodges lost three each, seven
1odges lost four each, and three lodges, Durant No. 268 of Berkeley, Golden
State No. 358 of Los Angeles, and Alta Vista-Mount Vernon No. 464 of
San Francisco lost five each.
From the Grand Lodge line, Past Grand Master Alfred Breslauer deputed after a long illness and Past Grand Lecturer, Elbert Davis passed
away unexpectedly. Special memorials will be given to their memory by
Put Grand Master Eugene S. Hopp and Past Grand Lecturer Donald G.
Cllnpbell.

George Cornwell, The untimely death of the Grand Bible Bearer, George
W. Cornwell, on June 28th, came as a great shock to all who knew this fine
Mason and gentleman.
He was born September 18, 1904 in Louisville, Mississippi. Most of his
adult life was spent in the vicinity of Fort Bragg and Arcata in the heart of
the redwoods where he became a Master Mason in Arcata Lodge No. 106
an June 27, 1949. He served his lodge as Master in 1957 and for the following
thirteen years as officer's coach until his appointment as Grand Bible Bearer
by Grand Master Huebner. He also was active in the Scottish Rite Bodies
and the Shrine. He was engaged in the lumber business for many years in
J.i'ort Bragg and Arcata and at the time of his retirement was storekeeper
for the Georgia Pacific Company.
His funeral was held in Arcata on June 30th and he was laid to his earthly
rest in Fort Bragg on July 1st. He is survived by his widow Pearl and a host
of friends.
Gerald Sanford Levin-Funeral services were held in this Memorial Temp)e on June 8th last for Brother Gerald Sanford Levin under the auspices of
Plcific Lodge No. 136 of San Francisco. Brother Levin was not only eminent
ia his chosen profession as an attorney, he also served his Lodge and this
Grand Lodge with distinction and devotion, in many capacities and on many

13

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

committees, and at the time of his passing was a member of the Jurisprudence
Committee.
Brother Levin was a native of Danville, Illinois, where he was born
January 19, 1907, moving to San Francisco with his family as a boy in 1910.
A graduate of University of California, Berkeley, and Harvard Law School.
As a young attorney he joined the San Francisco Law firm of Pillsbury,
Madison and Sutro in 1931 where he served as a noted civil lawyer. Appointed
to the Municipal Court bench in 1956 and to the Superior Court bench in
1962 where he served until he was appointed to the United States District
Court by President Nixon in June, 1969.
He served Pacific Lodge as its Master in 1945. From 1953 to the time of
his passing he remained active in Grand Lodge serving in the trial procedures,
mutual aid, masonic information, history and jurisprudence committees, and
as Grand Orator in 1960. A past Venerable Master (1953-54) of the San
Francisco Bodies of the Scottish Rite, he attained the highest honor within
the Supreme Council's power when he was coroneted a 33°, Honorary Inspector General in 1963. Brother Levin was also active in Islam Temple of
the Shrine.
The lives of such men are an inspiration to all and the good deeds that
he wrought will long be remembered by his hosts of friends. He is survived
by his wife, Frances, two step brothers, Madison and Donald Marcus and
stepsister, Marilyn Baxter.

Dr. Burns was a native of Flat River, Missouri, where he was born July 26,
Jf09. He grew up in California and was graduated from Richmond High

12

Robert E. Burns-Our Supreme Grand Master saw fit to call to his wellearned heavenly home on Saturday, February 13th, Brother Dr. R. E. Burns,
Past Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge of California, and at the time of his
passing, President of the University of the Pacific at Stockton, at the age
of 61. A graduate of the then, College of the Pacific, in 1931, he served that
institution in many capacities from that time until his election as president
at the age of 37. The nineteenth president in the school's history, he was
also its first alumnus to attain that distinction and the youngest college president in the state. Under Dr. Bum's administration, the state's oldest chartered college, ( 1851), attained university status. Dr. Burns instituted the
"cluster college" system in 1962 with the opening of Raymond College on
the Stockton campus. Other additions followed; the 67 year old School of
Dentistry, College of Physicians and Surgeons in San Francisco, and Elbert
Covell College as a North American Center for Spanish speaking students.
In addition he instituted Callison College as a school for non-western studies.
In addition, several years ago, the University of the Pacific consented to Dr.
Burns' election as President of the Presbyterian Medical Center in San
Francisco. Subsequently it was changed to the Pacific Medical Center. Under
Dr. Burns' leadership it experienced. a great growth, adding a wing to include
its own University of the Pacific School of Dentistry.

idloOI·
Brother Burns was a member of San Joaquin Lodge No. 19 of Stockton
where he was raised January 20, 1945.

Be is survived by his wife, Ruth, a daughter, Mrs. Otis T. Bourns, Jr. of

Stockton and a son, Ronald.
Bt1told Clayton Lloyd, a name well known all over the world, certainly

ane of the greatest comedians of all time, was a clean, wholesome humanitarian
who interlaced his chosen profession with service to civic, charitable and
seligious activities. His Masonic career was virtually synonymous with his
motion picture record.
He became a member of Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535 in 1925,
ltUdying for his Blue Lodge degrees between scenes. His happiest moments
came when his dad, at his side, took every degree in Masonry with him.
He was born the second son of James Darsie Lloyd and Sarah Elizabeth
Fraser in Burchard, Nebraska, April 20, 1893. At the age of eighteen he began
J1is 1DOtion picture career as an extra and only a few years later he was known
die world over as a symbol of American youth on the screen.
His Masonic career led him through the Scottish Rite, where he was
coroneted a 33°, December 11, 1965 and also through the York Rites. Recognized for what he represented, he was elected to the Divan of Al Malaikah
Temple and in 1939 was elected Potentate. Elected to the Imperial Divan, he
BVed as Imperial Potentate of North America 1949-50; the first in his
glamour profession ever to attain the highest honor in Shrinedom.
A generous man who gave liberally of his time and money to civic,
charitable and religious activities, he served as chairman of the Shriner's
llolpitals for crippled children throughout North America since 1962.
He is survived by three children, Gloria, Peggy and Harold, Jr.
To paraphrase one of his most intimate friends, "Of no man, Harold
Uoyd ever said an unkind word, nor did he ever commit an unkind act.
Sincere and understanding, with a creed as plain and simple as his tastes.
Re had not time for either prejudice or intolerance, and had only one hatred
- the hatred of bigotry. It all adds up to, "Do unto others".

John Andrew Owen departed this life on July 29th, for that spirit land
where so many have gone before, there to dwell in eternal peace. His passing
from our midst, left a void that will be noted with melancholy regret for years

to come.
It was hoped that Past Grand Master Clausen could be here today to
deliver this eulogy. Unable to attend this annual meeting of Grand Lodge,

lie 1'rote a few days ago, "He deserves recognition and admiration for his
~fl.cent and manifold contributions."

14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

29, 1903, the son
A native of Sweetwater, Tennessee, he was born March
World War I,
during
ry
count
his
served
He
Owen.
tha
of Thomas and Saman
e active in
becam
he
coming to Southern California shortly thereafter, where
y forged
quickl
he
n,
civic affairs. A man of strong will and iron determinatio
of
March
,
bonds
war
selling
a place for himself in the city of Hawthorne
Dimes, etc.
ry in Hawthorne
John made application to and was accepted into mason
ic career, short
mason
a
began
Thus
42.
Lodge No. 647 in 1935 at the age of
plishments
accom
his
in
dous
tremen
how
oh!
but
in time by most standa rds
orne
Hawth
r of
during the en.suing twenty-five years. He was elected Maste
Lodge in 1944.
built their own
Hawthorne Lodge joined that select list of Lodges who
in 1948, thus
ted
temples. Hawthorne Lodge's splendid temple was dedica
was the
John
s.
Mason
ative
they truly became both operative and specul
have
well
may
e
ventur
this
him,
for
driving force behind this effort. But
practi
did
and
brush,
paint
a
d
wielde
walls,
the
failed. John carried hod for
the
and
ent to him
cally everything until it finally stood complete; a monum
Inspector serving
ted
appoin
was
he
1949
In
.
Lodge
orne
Hawth
of
members
forced his retirehealth
with distinction for some 18 years, until his failing
of his years
time
first
the
for
learn
ment in 196 7. Perha ps most present will
after time,
time
low,
him
laid
which
e,
of illness from Parkinson's diseas
again take
e
courag
e
nitabl
indom
with
and
rise
to
seemingly at death's door,
up the joy of his life, his Masonic duties.
on behalf of the
Perhaps the brightest star in his crown was his work
ve the first
preser
to
public schools of California and the never-ending fight
state.
and
church
of
amendment to our constitution, the separation
ous contribuI could go on and on reciting his distinguished and numer
t.
permi
not
does
time
but
y,
tions to his city, his lodge and his countr
t Pike
Alber
by
sed
expres
nobly
so
,
Never before have I had the feeling
man
r
anothe
to
s
applie
ly
fitting
so
it
that
on the death of Albert Mackey,
noble
our
about
ks
remar
few
these
close,
a
to
ng
as I do today, in bringi
brother.
PUSHMATAKA
"A great man hath fallen in "Israe l" and in the words of
the woods. The
in
oak
the CHAH TA chief, it is like the falling of a huge
and far off
many
from
oed
re-ech
fall will be heard afar off, and the sound be
lands.
where he was
Fred Bernard Hack, was a native of Oakland, California
received the
he
that
born October 17, 1904. His masonic history reveals
and served
1928
in
nd,
Oakla
61,
degrees in masonry in Live Oak Lodge No.
president
was
He
.
ceased
never
ry
mason
as its master in 1938. His interest in
Masters
Past
and
rs
Maste
ies
Count
Costa
a
Contr
in 1949 of the Alameda and
on
death
his
until
Association. He served his lodge as treasurer from 1963
Janua ry 9th of this year.

15

his retireJanet,
wife
asillc&-President in 1969. He is survived by his
er Carol Swinnerton of Italy, brother George and sister Anabel Nagell.

A». attorney, he served the Wells Fargo Bank from 1928 untilson Robert,

-.pt

was lost to
Tiaddeus Franklin Brow n-A great law enforcement officer
October 9,
on
death
the
in
ular,
Cdfor nia, and Southern Californi~ in partic
Thad. A
as
nds
thousa
to
known
,
Brown
lin
1970 of Brother Thaddeus Frank
in York
raised
was
Brown
er
Broth
382.
No.
Lodge
.-.bel' of Highland Park
Lodge
Park
and
Highl
Lodge No. 423 on September 29, 1932, affiliating with
1111951.
terian
Born in Greenfield, Missouri, December 7, 1902, of pioneer presby
that
in
living
his
made
time
a
ttoct. He was educated in Missouri and for
work
police
in
ed
engag
iately
immed
he
area. Coming to Los Angeles in 1923
zation he was
with the Los Angeles Police Department, with which organi
the ranks, he
h
throug
up
g
Movin
life.
his
of
e
balanc
the
destined to spend
period as
brief
a
for
_.ved nearly 22 years as deput y chief of police, and
ement
enforc
law
just,
but
chief. He was known far and wide as a tough,
was
and
y
societ
to
debt
his
paid
had
oflicer, He was ready to help a man who
in
g
untirin
was
he
as
,
citizen
t
hones
an
e
struggling hard to again becom
and
knew
als
crimin
of
ands
Thous
place.
first
the
in
bringing him to justice
napected him as an honest "cop."
il Commandry
His masonic activities were many; Royal Arch, Counc
'
'
them.
of
all
in
r
Scottish Rite and Shrine, he was a hard worke
ter.
daugh
a
He is survived by his wife Lillian, two sons and
of
home
al
celesti
his
to
Berkeley, serving as its master in 1918, was called
'lbursday, Janua ry 7th at the age of 88.
time to be active
One of the leading industrialists of the state, he found
the Shrine.
and
Rite
sh
Scotti
,
a.ndry
in masonic circles: Royal Arch, Comm
of the Soule
board
the
of
an
Chairm
At the time of his passing, he was
He was a
1911.
in
sco
Franci
San
in
ished
establ
Steel Company which he
at the
tion
native of Little Shasta in Siskiyou County. He received his educa
He
years.
ty
seven
for
d
University of California, Berkeley, where he reside
was
and
YMCA
ley
Berke
the
mved his city for many years as a director of
survived by his widow Addie1
Ill elder in the Presbyterian Church. He is
'
n.
hildre
grandc
fifteen
and
en,
three dllldr
No. 268
Edward Le,e Soule, Senior past master of Duran t Lodge
on

San Francisco
•. Carl Frederick Wente, internationally known, banke r and
on Monday, Febru ary 1st at the
GYlc leader depart ed from this earthl y life
of Mosaic Lodge
l&e of 81. He was a native of Livermore and a member1910.
10,
ber
Decem
No. 218 of that city where he was raised
of OakHis hanking career began as a messenger with the Central Bank
of
Bank
the
as
known
(then
ca
Ameri
land in 1907. He joined the Bank of

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Italy) in 1918. He became presiden t of the First Nationa l Bank of Ne~
as
in 1934 and three years later returned to the Central Bank of Oakland
tj
presiden
vice
senior
as
1943
in
America
of
Bank
the
to
presiden t. He returned
retire.
bis
until
1952
from
bank
largest
world's
the
of
t
presiden
as
and served
ment in 1954.
His activities in behalf of his community, state and nation are too numer.
ous to mention in this brief eulogy.
Although never master of his lodge, he was closely intereste d and helpful
wherever and whenever called upon.
He served the Grand Lodge as an informa l financial advisor during the
negotiations for the financing of the Grand Lodge Memorial Temple. Our
the
past Grand Master and present Grand Seaetar y, Edward H. Siems, had
1960.
in
pin
year
fifty
his
with
him
ng
presenti
privilege of

FJbert A. Covell, of Woodbridge was born in San Leandro , Februar y 5,
for
1874, the son of pioneer parents, who came to Californ ia in 1856, settling
.
Leandro
a time in San
His masonic career dates back before the turn of the century when he was
in
raised in Woodbridge Lodge No. 131 in 1899 and served as its master
years.
72
for
Mason
1911. At the time of his death, he had been a Master
He was the oldest living member, in years of membership, of Islam Templfll
118
of the Shrine in San Francisc o; a member of Woodbridge Chapter No.
of
member
charter
a
also
was
He
1908.
in
Patron
Worthy
O.E.S. and Past
Bearer
Bible
Grand
as
Lodge
Grand
the
served
He
club.
ve
Hi-Twel
Lodi
the
in 1967.
He received his early education in Fresno and after the family's movma
to Woodbridge, attended San Joaquin Valley College, the United Brethren
School.
As a young man he took over his father's vineyard interests in the Lodi
an
area and that of his brother George in Stanislaus County. He retired as
civic.
to
life
his
of
balance
the
devoted
and
40
of
age
the
at
active farmer
educational, philanth ropic and masonic interests . He was, for many years,
chairma n of the board of the Lodi Bank of America.
He was a member of the Board of Regents and Treasur er of the Universi~
the
of The Pacific. It was his gift which established Elbert Covell College at
where
States,
United
the
in
college
speaking
University, the first SpanishEnglish is considered the foreign language. It was opened in the fall of 1963.
He was the principa l donor for the construc tion of the Robert E. Burns Towell
at the University.
On July 25th 1970, at the age of 96, this publicity-shy, generous and
to
unassuming, by nature, gentlem an passed away after a lifetime of service
his fellowmen.
His wife F1orence preceded him in death in 1943. They had no children.
.
He is survived by two nephews, Lester of Stockton and Raymon d of Modesto

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

17

We learn, with regret, of the sudden death on September 15 of brother
'j#Jdore Skoll, who collapsed and died as he was being robbed, after
~ the Monterey Jazz Festival. Born in San Francisco April 16, 1912, athe
t his entire life in this area. As the years passed he became a well-kn
own
of the business world and a highly respected member of the fraternity.
Be was a past president of the Oakland Building Managers Association; also
a giember of the Oakland Chamb er of Commerce and the San
Francisco
Pre§ Club.
Raised in Pacific Lodge No. 136 of San Francisco on November 28th,
38,
19 he soon became active in various Masonic activities. He served as its
)faster in 1970.
Be was a member of the San Francisco Bodies of the Scottish Rite
and
wauurrently preside nt of the San Francisco Master and Warden s Associa
tion.
Be is survived by his wife, Ruth.

=her

EULOGY
.ALP°RED F. BRESLAUER
By Eugene S. Hopp
,Destiny's child was born in Redding, California, on a bright Wedne

sday

morning, the 26th of August, 1898. His future promise manifested itself at an

ALFR ED F. BRES LAUE R
Grand Maste r - 1960
Born
August 26, 1898
Redding, California

Died
Janua ry 27, 1971
Menlo Park, Califo rnia

early age. He stood near the top of his class at the Pacific Heights
Grammar
School and later at Lowell High School, both in San Francisco.
It was a keen sense of the importance of the individual human being,
and
a regard for duty, obligation and responsibility, which led young Alfred to the
study of law at the University of California and Boalt Hall School
of Law.
In 1922 he was admitte d to the Bar.
A recognition of the need of the world for an underst anding of the brother
hood of man as a fundamental principle of life, inevitably brough t Alfred
Breslauer to receive the degrees of Freemasonry in Starr King Lodge
No. 344
in 1923. He served as Master of that Lodge in 1930.
In consideration of his leadership, his knowledge and understanding of
our ritual, his dedication to the Master Mason, he was appointed Inspect or
of the 43d Masonic Distric t in 1931 and performed most ably in that capacit
y
for seventeen years. Brothe r Al then served on numerous Grand Lodge
Committees, always giving of his time and energies withou t stint. Those of us
who
had the privilege of serving with him as Trustee of the Masonic Homes,
a
Board he ultimat ely headed as its Preside nt, will never forget his devotio
n to
the children and the aged, his skill and never-failing good humor as presidin
g
Clfticer, and his personal commitment to the practice of fundamental Masonic
\'irtues.
In 1960, Brothe r Alfred Fisher Breslauer was elected Grand Master
of
Masons in California and so typically, prompt ly proclaimed the Year
of the
Master Mason with the quote: "It is the high calling of every Mason
to keep

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

alive in the hearts of men the love of freedom and the willingness to fight
and die for it if necessary. It will be seen, therefore that the source of power
in Masonry is in the individual Mason. Furthermore, if Masonic power is
to be used to promote the welfare and happiness of the community and to
safeguard the freedom of the people, the individual Mason must exercise it
whenever and wherever it is needed."
It was to help the Lodge in the pursuit of these goals that our dearly
beloved brother first wrote The Master's Handbook in 1941. It was a small
volume that soon came to be the guide for generations of Masonic Lodge
Officers, and still provides today, invaluable assistance in the planning of
Lodge work.
Brother Alfred Breslauer worked in Freemasonry wherever his ability
and service was sought. He was elected Wise Master of the Rose Croix and
later Venerable Master of the Lodge of Perfection in the San Francisco Bodies
of the Scottish Rite, where he also was honored with the 33 °.
Patriotism and service to country being among the charges of an Entered
Apprentice Mason, our brother served as a private in World War I and a
Captain in World War II, on which lat~r occasio? he was in ~e Uni~ed
States Army Specialist Reserve charged with prepanng the Selective Service
Act and Regulations.
In serving his fellow-man, our brother authored the California Small Loan
Act and then was called upon to advise State agencies in administering the
Act. He labored in many civic organizations, including the Commonwealth
Club, the Public Education Society and the Administrative Committee of the
State Bar of California.
Tragedy beyond the patience of Job stalked our Brother's life but throughout he mustered that fortitude which we recall as that noble and steady
purpose of the mind whereby we are enabled to undergo any pain, peril or
danger, when prudentially deemed expedient.
In 1931 Alfred Breslauer married Marion Joseph and they were blessed
with two fi~e children, Kathryn and Alfred J. But Marion was struck down
by a devastating illness.
In 1948 a kind fate brought Al and Margaret Slate to the altar and their
happiness was blessed with a son, B~ce.. But agai~ our M. W. brother was
to see his wife struck down by devastating illness.
Yet amidst these and other personal tragedies our Brother continued to
erect that magnificent house not made wih hands - a life of great moral
values. Just as the Ancient Hebrews knew and wrote of the value of moral
education so did M. W. Alfred Breslauer serve for thirty years as teacher
and Superintendent of Sherith Israel Religious School. Countless young people went forth from that Synagogue school with a better sense of the importance and moral worth of truth, justice, brotherhood and charity. They
learned these lessons not only from his words of instruction but even more
from the example of his life.

In closing his message to this Grand Lodge in 1961, our M. W. Alfred
Breslauer quoted from the great scientist Michael Faraday, and I should
like to paraphrase that quotation: All I can say to you at the end of this
life (and we must all come to an end at one time or another) is to express
the wish that each of you may, in your generation, be fit to compare to his
candlelight; that you may, like him, shine as a light to those about you; that
in all your acts you may justify the beauty of his taper, by making your deeds
honorable and effectual in the discharge of your duty to your fellow-man.

19

EULOGY
ELBERT

•

~

I

w. DAVIS

By Donald G. Campbell
When death took our friend and teacher, Elbert W. (Bill) Davis, it removed pillars from the structure of Masonry well nigh impossible to replace.
The Pillar of Strength in his case was Character. Plain spoken and forthright, Bill imparted a sense of integrity to every activity in which he engaged.
Truth, that divine attribute, was the foundation upon which this Pillar stood,
without dissimulation or deceit in any form. We are surrounded by those
who bend the truth. Bill never would because it was not in his character
so to do.
The Pillar of Wisdom was there for everyone to lean upon. Grand Masters
who knew him learned early to depend upon Bill for advice in situations confronting the Grand Lodge and its constituent Lodges, for Wisdom comes from
experience and a wealth of experience had come to Bill over the years. Almost
no situation could arise which had not in the past been dealt with and Bill,
in his capacious memory, could use the lessons there learned to the advantage
of the occasion.
The Pillar of Beauty was truly there in his love of Masonry and his
respect for its ritual and the lessons contained therein. He was a purist
because he was convinced that time had brought down to us a heritage which
was too precious to sully by easy substitution and sloppy execution. As Grand
Lecturer, he imparted to his Assistants the same sense of respect which was
so much a part of him and the Beauty of Masonry shone as a reflection of
this man.
Bill was born in Houston, Texas November 30, 1894 and spent his boyhood there but came to California in time to attend and graduate in law from
the University of California with the Class of 1916. All of his time was not
spent on his law books for within a year after graduation, on April 12, 1917,
he married Marie Kingman. Their marriage carried to Bill's death, a period
of more than fifty-four years, and produced two sons, Willard Kenneth and
Keith Kingman Davis, and a daughter, Gertrude Ellen Nelson. The children,
grandchildren and great grandchildren form a loving circle to sustain Marie
in her years of memory.

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bill actively engaged in his large law practice to the day of his death.
Senior partner in the firm of Hoffman, Davis and Moon, he daily commuted
to his San Francisco office. Upon the withdrawal of P.G.M. Laurence E.
Dayton from the post, Bill assumed, at considerable sacrifice, the post of
attorney to the Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes. His service here, as in
all facets of his Masonic activity, was marked with quiet efficiency and solid
good judgment.
Raised in Francis K.Shattuck Lodge No. 571February24, 1925, Bill chose
the York Rite and was, during his lifetime, a member of Berkeley Chapter
and Berkeley Commandery. His true love was always Blue Lodge Masonry,
however, and joining the appointive line as Marshal in 1934, he served as
Worshipful Master in 1940. Before this, his talents became known and in
1939 Bill was appointed to the Grievance Committee and upon relinquishing
the Master's Chair, he became Inspector of the 33rd Masonic District in
January of 1941, Assistant Grand Lecturer in October, 1949 and, upon the
death of Walter Von Konsky, Grand Lecturer in November of 1952. Reelected through the years, Bill served until December 31, 1959, at which time
and with his blessing, friendship and generous help, the torch was passed to
his successor. Since that time, he has been an invaluable member of the Committee on Jurisprudence, adding the quiet strength and balance of his knowledge to that important Committee.
How to close a tribute to a man like this? Perhaps to say that the final day
was like many others since 192 5 when he first could attend Lodge. In the afternoon, he was in the Grand Lodge office in an ordered review of Homes' matters. That night he attended Lodge, came home to Marie and slept away into
the transition from life to the greater life in that house not made with hands
eternal in the heavens. We have had our lives enriched by the privilege of
knowing this man who was a true Pillar of Masonry.

PAST MASTERS, MASTERS AND WARDENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
1 Jannuth, Jack A. .......... 5-17-71
3 O'Malley, Albert •••..••••• 4- 9-71
3 White, Lloyd F ............ 10-19-70
8 Sims, Mahlon F ............ 1- 8-71
9 Crother, Oliver • . . • . • . . . • . • 4-26-71
9 Pelton, Durward Asel ..••.. 7-25-70
10 Short, Frank Elmer, Jr· .•••• 4- 7-71
12 Ricketts, William Harold • • • 2- 2-71
13 Williams, Alvie A..•.•..••• 6- 8-71
14 Brennan, James Leonard •••• 4-18-71
14 Olsen, Albert R. .•...•..... 6-23-71
19 Landrum, William King .... 8-24-70
20 Bates, Joseph William ...... 1()...20-70
20 Richards, Harold Newton •.• 8-12-70

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
22 Jacob, Karl Joseph ........ 3-21-71
22 Rackerby, Theodore Eley 10- 6-70
24 Wells, Harry Clayton ..•••• 11-29-70
25 Barnhart, James Leander .. 10-19-70
32 Sparks, William Martin, Jr •• 2-21-71
33 Bedgood, William P ..••..•• 11-18-70
33 Manuel, John A., Jr........ 12-12-70
33 Parker, Rolland Wayne ••.• 6-22-71
35 Elliott, Richard Hugh .••... 10-13-70
37 Harmon, Ernest Vance .•... 6-23-71
40 Castello, Walter Owen ...... 4- 7-71
40 Skinner, Ralph Leslie ••••.• 10-23-70
41 Coats, Frank Paul ••••..••• 10-25-70
42 Scheer, Nathan •••.••.•.••• 8- 2-70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
J,odge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
43 Clark, Edward H ........... 4- 7-71
43 Gay, Harry Woodburn ...•• 2-22-71
45 Childs, Richard Adair ...•.. 6-26-71
SO Mansell, Burt ••.•.•....•.. 6-26-71
57 Greenwood, John Paul A... 10- 1-70
58 Babb, George Alphonso •••. 11- 3-70
60 Grover, Freman Eastman •.. 1-15-71
61 Hack, Fred Bernard .•...•.. 1- 9-71
64 Anderson, Charles Fridol ••• 5- 3-71
76 Mercer, Robert Allen ••••... 6- 5-71
78 Husband, Victor Pierpont ... 12- 6-70
78 Schwoerer, Charles F. • . . . • . 2- 3-71
98 Garst, Harvey Oden ...••••• 11- 9-70
98 Sweet, Clyde Elwyn ..••.... 1-28-71
99 Dempsey, Charles William .. 2-14-71
99 Matteson, Verl Delbert . • . • 4- 4-71
103 Thatcher, Warren R. •.••••• 11- 1-70
104 Irwine, John .............. 10- 6-70
104 Thurman, Joseph Coy ...... 7-26-70
106 Cornwell, George William • • • 6-28-71
106 Hood, Robert Bell ......... 11-16-70
113 Fleddennan, Albert A.•..... 12-31-70
113 Hutton, Ernest David ..••.. 9-27-70
113 Sitzer, William Eugene ••..• 3-24-71
117 Pearl, Frederick Albert ..... 11- 5-70
122 Miller, Charles E .•••••.•••. 12- 5-70
122 Spencer, Guy F .••••••.•••.. 5-14-71
124 Robinson, Gordon Emil ••.• 2-13-71
126 Starr, Alfred Noble ..•.••.. 10-19-70
128 Nicholson, Knox Williard . . 6-30-71
128 Ward, John William ....... 1-12-71
131 Covell, Elbert A........... 7-25-70
131 Van Vlear, Harvey S. . . • • . • . 4- 2-71
134 Jacobs, Francis Harriman •• 8- 5-70
136 Levin, Gerald s. .. . . .. . . . . . 6- 5-71
136 Rebstock, Eugene E .•...... 8-14-70
136 West, Ernest ••••...•••.... 8-13-70
139 Dains, Ivores Roy ......... 6- 8-71
139 Eshbach, Benjamin Brooks .. 12-14-70
139 Kohn, Alf ••..•....••.•••.• 4-24-71
145 Taylor, Robert Charles •••• 11- 1-70
146 Bromley, William ••.•.•.•.• 2-1()...71
166 Baker, Bert Thurber .••.•.. 6- 1-71
168 Lomax, John Donald ...... 2-15-71
168 Merrill, Charles Holbrook •. 12-30-70
174 Bell, John Henry .......... 2- 2-71
175 hde, Ralph Merrill ....... 7-10-70
175 l'ederickson, J ocob . • • • • • • . 8- 9-70
178 lkomilow, Robert Menzies •. 3-17-71
179 Johnson, William McKinley • 8-11-70
Ul Gray, Bartlett S•••.•.•••.•• 2-19-71
182 Powis, Herbert Schuyler •.•. 1-21-71
183 Williams, Roy Joseph . • . . • . 6- 4-71
185 :Rawles, Garth Barrett ...... 1-23-71
U7 lohnson, Garrett A. • • • • • . . • 2-16-71
118 lhrkins, George Clement •••• 4- 9-71
191 llole, Victor Lawren ....... 9-18-70
196 Waltz, Royal L ............ 1()...12-70
191 Fohl, Don C. • • .. .. .. .. .. .. 1- 3-71

21

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
198 Reicheld, Kenneth E .••.•.•• 3-19-71
198 Schlarb, Earl E .........•.. 2-24-71
199 Hill, Edgar Earl ••.••.•...• 3-26-71
201 Rohwer, Hans J .••••••••.•• 5- 3-71
203 Hayes, Claude Lee • • • • • • . • • 9- 9-70
204 Lewis, Charles Watson ...•. 11-10-70
206 Westmorland, William H .••. 6-26-71
210 Sohm, Carl Wesley ....•.•.• 3-19-71
212 Rothery, Homer Martin •.•• 2-10-71
215 Anderson, Eugene Debs •... 12-18-70
215 Garratt, Mansfield White, Sr. 9-18-70
218 Bentley, Niles Burdette ..••• 3- 9-71
226 Grush, Ward William ...•.• 5-24-71
229 Jones, Russell Clinton •••.. 10-26-70
230 Olsen, Arent Lee .•••.•••••. 12-11-70
231 Allen, J. L ....•.•..•.....•. 3-21-71
231 Hagne, F. E ....... . ....... 12- 5-70
231 Moore, A. N ............... 11-12-70
237 Ferini, Guido Omero ••••••• 10-21-70
237 Scott, Herschel . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-13-71
241 Horton, Roy Seaton .••...•• 11-10-70
242 Clausen, Albert F .........• 7-30-70
242 Stewart, Ray L ..•...••••.• 2-15-71
244 Fitts, Louis Oliver •.•••.•.. 11-11-70
245 Callender, Wright Lee •••••• 10-10-70
245 Wells, Cletus Valarian ...... 11-22-70
248 Nielson, Carlo .•••.•.•••.•. 1-21-71
254 Wheeler, Wayland ......... 12- 9-70
255 Lewis, Alfred Turner .•...• ,10-31-70
255 Lowe, Marvell Marion • . • . . 3-21-71
255 Ward, Leonard Risdon •...• 4- 2-71
255 Wilson, Bill John ••••••.••. 8-12-70
260 Logasa, Albert Robert • • • • • 4-30-71
262 Rios, Herbert Charles •.•••• 1- 4-71
264 Meredith, Daniel Dewitt •... 6-17-71
268 Hanson, Robert A••....•... 1-27-71
268 Hink, John J .............. 1-21-71
268 Lewis, John C............. 2-25-71
268 Montgomery, Carl A....... 3-17-71
268 Soule, Edward L .•..••••••• 1- 7-71
271 Castle, Lloyd Joseph •..••.• 10- 2-70
272 Radford, Christopher R .•..• 2-17-71
272 Rogers, Louis Allen •....... 6- 3-71
272 Thompson, Raymond George 7-20-70
273 Brummeler, Lambert Harold 2-11-71
273 Littlefield, Joseph Wm.•••• 1- 7-71
273 Vincent, Floyd Elliott •••••• 9-30-70
275 Woolard, William Robert ..• 3-24-71
281 Long, Ernest Franklin •.•••. 8- 9-70
282 Hoberg, George G., Sr.••..•• 7-19-70
283 Hegel, Joseph Arthur ••••••• 1- 3-71
286 Shomo, Carl Wilbur •••••••• 11-10-70
290 Haskell, Leo Donald •••••.• 6-29-71
292 Jameson, Frank Edwin . • • • • 8- 4-70
292 Walk.er, Leland Harrison •.• 2- 7-71
293 Lee, William Cushman • • . • . • 5-28-71
293 Parks, Rex Albert • • • • • • • • • • 6- 2-71'
294 Hanson, Alfred •••••••••••. 11-12-70
295 Buttner, Joseph Ernest ••••• 5-16-71

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date of
Date of Lodge
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
Death
Name
No.
295 Nydegger, Frederick Ralph •. 7- 9-70 360 Heim, Joseph Charles .••.•• 6- 9-71
360 Kellogg, Arthur Eugene ...•• 3-22-71
295 Robertson, Jesse J ...•....• 9-28-70
361 Anderson, William Russel ... 10-15-70
296 Kenner, Earl Franklin ...•.. 3- 5-71
361 Graham, Fred Leon .••..... 12-18-70
296 Reinert, Rudolph Herman •. 3-24-71
362 Robinson, Thomas Arthur .. 3-18-71
296 Squire, James Linus ........ 5-26-71
363 Pierce, Earl Monroe ......• 4- 4-71
299 Thompson, John Torbert ... 3-11-71
301 Ogden, Edgar Walter ..••... 7-17-70 363 Sundquist, Maynard W ..•.• 1-23-71
363 Wilson, Clare Wright, Sr...• 3- 7-71
303 Wright, Alexander Glen .... 4- 5-71
363 Wisdom, William Dewmore . 1-29-71
304 Cairns, Cameron M ..•••.... 1-15-71
367 Eggleston, Charles A......• 11-24-70
1- 2-71
306 Caldwell, Merlin S.
309 Baker, Leroy Arnold ....... 9-15-70 368 Brennan, Bernard C... .... . 5-29-71
369 Clendening, Lloyd E ......•. 7-23-70
309 Hotchkiss, Theodore H .•••• 1-21-71
372 Stephenson, Lawrence F .•... 8- 2-70
309 Robertson, Ward .......... 3- 1-71
312 Whittington, William E ..... 6-20-70 373 Lipking, Edgar K .••....... 6- 6-71
314 Kirkpatrick, John Ewing .•. 8-18-70 373 Ware, William E ..•..•....• 12- 4-70
373 Watts, Dwight Robel't: ....•• 2-20-71
319 Agins, Charles Lewis ......• 3- 3-71
319 Swanfeldt, John ........... 1-10-71 374 Pirie, Charles Alexander .... 3-17-71
321 Schweickhardt, Frederick W. 12-13-70 374 Van Ornum, William A.•..• 9-24-70
322 Atkins, Tom DeWitt, Sr. . .11- 6-70 376 Woodman, Ralph Everet ..•• 10-29-70
377 Oarver, Charles Joshua . .... 3-22-71
322 Freeborn, Francis Maurice .. 3-14-71
378 Harshman, James E .•.... .. 7-25-70
322 Ketridge, Charles Horace . .. 1- 1-71
378 Wheeling William Thomas .. 12-11-70
322 Portner, Ora Hal ........... 3- 9-71
380 Ries, Berrell R. ............ 7- 6-70
323 Bowie, Herman Eli ...•..•• 6- 4-71
323 Jones, Alonzo William ..... 11-29-70 382 Bredy, Oscar Albert .......• 6-28-71
324 Greffoz, Maurice Phelps •... 1-22-71 382 Latimer, Robert Ray ...•... 3-28-71
384 Knights, Charles Henry ...• 1-23-71
324 Porter, Gordon Farnham ... 2-18-71
327 Adams, Arthur Hartwell .•.. 10- 1-70 387 Lemberg, Arthur Wm. , .•... 10-24-70
327 Nelson, Edwin Raymond ... 1-29-71 387 Macon, Lawrence Horace ... 7-27-70
387 Wallingford, Ira Glen •..•.• 4- 9-71
327 Polhill, George James . . • . . . 2- 5- 71
328 Pearson, James Ashton ..•.. 11-16-70 388 Arentz, Luther Herman .••.. 3- 9-71
388 McCue, Paul Millard ......• 7-26-70
329 Eyraud, Leon .•.....•..•.. 1-15-71
393 Hoberg, Ingemar Eric .•..•• 2-26-71
332 Brashier, Charles Vincent •.. 6-23-71
332 Irwin, Robert ............. 11- 1-70 394 Green, Frederick Ward .•••• 9-10-70
335 Arons, Morris ............. 11-29-70 395 Hedin, Al G ............... 12- 1-70
343 Carr, George Herbert ...••.. 11-23-70 395 Rose, Howard Leland .•...• 11-14-70
343 Green, Arthur William ...... 7- 1-70 397 Mathews, Frank • • . . . . . • • . • 4- 5-71
343 Husbands, Thomas Stokley . 7- 4-70 397 Strandberg, George C....•.. 6- 1-71
344 Breslauer, Alfred Fisher ..•.. 1-27-71 401 Walker, John Thomas .••... 7- 9-70
402 Gerry, William Oliver •..... 11-25-70
344 Joseph, Bernard Julius ..... 1-21-71
345 Abbott, Karl Smedley ...... 7-30-70 402 Hausmann, Louis Carl ...... 5-11-71
403 Snook, Preston Edward .... 8-10-70
347 Baptie, Charles ..••........ 4-17-71
349 Coy, Merrill Daniel . . . . . . . . 8- 2-70 404 Peyton, Kirby Lionel • . . • • • • 2- 9-71
349 Irish, Clifford Lucuis ....... 8-27-70 405 Hagadone, Ernest Victor ..•• 3-24-71
349 Mote, Jesse Frampton ...... 10-23-70 406 Myers, Charles Robert ....• 4-18-71
407 Boardman, Earle Howland .. 1-28-71
349 Zimmerman, Fredric B...•.. 3-23-71
408 Meader, Thomas Reuben . . . 8- 9-70
351 Blake, Robert John ........ 5-17-71
409 Bittle, Gerald Frank .....•.. 1-16-71
355 Black, Dudley Frank ......• 5-10-71
412 Burdick, Joseph B. . • . • . . . . . 2-13-71
355 Mill, Lee David .•..... ... .. 1-12-71
355 Woodland, Albert Ralph ...• 9-23-70 416 Baxley, Walter William .•.•. 1-10-71
356 Koster, Ludwig Clarence .... 11-10-70 417 Merriman, Carl Sherman ... 10-24-70
418 Stevens, Orval Alvin . . . . • . • 2-16-71
356 Smith, Wesley Viollette ..... 4-14-71
419 Barr, Allan Stone •...••..• 12-15-70
357 Renaker, Leslie Morton ...•• 4- 3-71
419 Rowe, Ronald Richard ..•.. 1-30-71
357 Snyder, Caryl Brighton . . . . . 1-20-71
358 Crawford, Fred George . . • . . 8-25-69 421 Dull, John August ...•.•..• 3- 9-71
423 Harper, Peter Butler ••••.•. 6-12-71
358 Ewers, Thomas Hanson .... 1-19-71
358 Stuart, Edward •.•••••••••. 12-29-70 423 Hughes, Willard Newman •. 7-19-70
358 Vinum, Lyman Anthony .... 12-23-70 427 Reher, James Clayton .• •... 5- 1-71
358 Werner, Kurt Karl .......•• 7- 4-70 429 Bengston, John Stanley ••••. 8-20-70
429 Lopez, Ralph ••••••.••••.• 7- 7-70
360 Bird, William Clark •.•••••• 6- 9-71

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Da:te of
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
429 Ward, Donald Ernest •••••• 6-19-71
430 Gerlicher, Milton C..•..••.. 11-18-70
430 Wetzel, Gerald Francis •••.. 11-23-70
434 Banks, Francis Linas ....... 11- 5-70
436 Browning, Ernest W ...•.... 8- 1-70
436 Kunkle, Fred E .. ••.•••.... 1-16-71
436 Simon, Erle V.••.....••••• 9-19-70
441 Pfeifier, Howard Lewis ... .. 9-12-70
443 Rust, John Calder .••••.••. 11-22-70
447 Moore, Charles Elwood ..•. 5-15-71
447 Mosher, Ernest Melvin .•... 10-22-70
447 Wands, Dale Taylor .•...... 4- 7-71
449 Ritchie, George W .••.•••.• 8-20-70
449 Smith, Ernest Robert .•..••. 3- 1-71
450 Williams, Stanley Wyatt .•.. 6-25-71
452 Benner, Paul Cason •••..••. 12- 1-70
454 Jenkins, Kenneth M .•...... 3- 9-71
457 Robinson, John Ward •..•.. 11- 2-70
459 MacDonald, Otto Ernest ...• 2-11-71
460 Rowe, Herman ••••••••..•. 3-21-71
461 Downing, Walter Hammond 1- 8-70
461 Richards, LeRoy Buys •.••. 12-26-70
462 Fouch, Harry Andrew •.•••• 4-15-71
464 Fletcher, Richard Fredrick .• 3- 8-71
464 Herz, Francis Joseph ••.•... 12-18-70
464 McCracken, Howard James • 3- 2-71
464 RO$i, Stephen Joseph •..... 2-28-71
464 Titsworth, John Richard ...• 8- 3-70
466 Taylor, Raymond George .. 2-16-71
467 Welch,EmmettLawrence,Sr. 12-12-70
468 Rea, Boyd William •....•.•• 5-24-71
471 Washburn, George Otis ..... 4-18-71
475 Radford, William H .••.... • 1-13-71
478 Ingold, Harold Boncil . • . . • . 4- 4-71
478 Wisecarver, Robert Percy •.. 8-17-70
480 Brandt, Leo Crist .•.....•. 6-21-71
480 Greenwood, John Paul A••. 10- 1-70
480 Hislop, David Simons •.•. • 12-24-70
485 Schnauer, Roy ••••.....•••• 2- 4-71
486 Binyon, Roy .............. 11-16-70
486 Bart, Joseph Breckenridge .. 7-30-70
486 MaDachowitz, Clyde Earl ..• 9-16-70
487 Lindley, Carl Otto ••.•...•• 4- 2-71
488 Lane, John .....••....•.. .. 4- 4-71
488 McElhem, Douglas Edwin • . 9-18-70
490 Dunning, Leon .......•... • 2-15-71
491 Elliott, Maxwell Perry .•..•. 5-10-71
491 Sivertsen, Charles Olat ...... 5-27-71
492 Barrows, Thomas Hasson .• 12-31-70
493 Brown, Floyd Porter .•••... 1-15-71
4'3 Webber, Lewis Henry ••..•• 2- 6-71
494 Grader, Irvin Leon ...•••.• 7-15-70
494 Arthur, Theodore R., Sr.•... 10- 6-70
497 Morris, Chester Culwell •... 5-27-71
499 Pn"bble, Frederick James ... 3- 2-71
GaDi, Benito Paul ....•..•.• 6-12-71
:
I06 Murray, Owen Aaron .....• 12- 4-70
Petenon, Jack Tudor ••.••.• 10-12-70
_
""" 1 lack, Stephen A........... 11- 8-70

23

Da:te of
Lodge
Death
No.
Name
509 Keddie, James ............. 10- 6-70
510 Garbini, Arthur ••..•.••.•.. 2-10-71
510 McArthur, Robert Alexander 2-18-71
511 Almos, Peter .............• 12-29-70
511 Peer, Charles Wickersham .•. 12- 5-70
511 Trubschenck, William Adam 10- 3-70
515 Kelly, Earl Holland .•••••.. 11-28-70
519 Wilcox, Frank Stearns . • . . . • 3- 9-71
521 Lewis, Martin John, Jr..•.. 12-11-70
522 Disheroon, Robert Lauvin .. 12-29-70
522 Rudolph, William .......... 6-11-71
522 Victor, Albert James ..•..•• 2-12-71
523 Willmon, James Franklin •.. 8-13-70
524 Mackey, Percy Edward .•..• 5-22-71
529 Bass, Lloyd Phillip •..•.•••• 11-10-70
529 Rocque, Harry Clem .•••••• 10-21-70
534 Smith, Irving Mills ••.••.•.• 7- 3-70
535 Franke, Edwin F .••••.•.••• 5- 5-71
535 Hervey, Harcourt • • • • • . • • • . 9-29-70
535 Kendis, Charles C. . • • . • • • • • 2-28-71
537 McCaulley, Charles Dean •. 5-11-71
540 Callaway, Robert E ......... 3- 4-71
544 Ireland, Alfred Ray • • . . • • • • 8- 4-70
545 Kohnke, Washington Irving • 8-25-70
547 McClung, Frederick James •• 3-20-71
548 Chitwood, Glen Milton ...•• 6-20-71
548 Seitz, Herbert Winton .. ..•• 5- 1-71
549 Cruickshank, William Root . 7-11-70
551 Miller, Lewis Bradley ...... 11-17-70
552 Duncan, Alexander ••••...•• 9-20-70
554 Clews, Handford Logan ••.. 8- 8-70
554 Schott, Louis Henry ..•••••• 6-14-71
554 Sheffey, Simeon Elwick ••.•• 11-26-70
557 Engstrom, Rufus Leonard . . • 1-28-71
558 Wyckoff, John Raymond ••. 9-24-70
561 Baker, Mearl Leroy ..••..•• 5-28-71
562 Schmale, Earl Jay •..••.•••• 1-11-71
565 Euler, Ezra Kenneth ....... 11- 2-70
569 Breen, Walter John ••.••••• 2- 3-71
569 Maki, Stanley •..••...••••• 4-21-71
569 Weaver, George W .••••••.•• 12-29-70
570 Minium, Don ..•••••••••••• 11- 5-70
571 Acom, Horace Herbert ...•. 11-27-70
571 Tyler, Robert Howard ..•.•• 6-27-71
572 Smith, Norman Eugene .•••• 9- 1-70
574 Adams, George Elisha ••.•.. 12-11-70
574 Wagner, Joseph H .••••••••• 7- 8-70
575 Dunwoody, Warren Earl ••.. 2-13-71
577 Fike, Kenneth Donald .•.... 9-23-70
577 Todd, Murray Hamilton • • . . 9-28-70
578 Farlow, Louie Victor . . • . • . • 6-25-71
578 Land, Walter .............. 4-22-71
579 Duncan, Boyd Monroe ..•.•• 10- 4-70
579 Gibson, Beverly C., Jr••.••• 7-23-70
579 Missall, J. Louis ........... 4- 1-71
585 Cummins, Lindon Ligurgus . 1- 7-71
587 Magee, Frank B .•••••••.••• 2-19-71
588 Worden, Charles C......... 6- 1-71
594 Linville, Benjamin H .•••••. 4-10-71

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
596 Upmeyer, Edward William .. 2- 4-71
596 Vieira, Frank Joseph ....... 10-20-70
602 Mcilroy, Arthur Meredith .. 6-20-71
605 S!ottelid, Anton Olaf ....... 1-20-71
609 Briggs, William Henry, Jr... 9-22-70
609 Rosecrans, Orson Almon .... 8-17-70
611 Castile, Simon Peter •.••.•.. 4-21-71
612 Exton, John Leonard ....... 1-22-71
615 Speziali, John Easter ......• 2-21-71
616 Jones, Glenn Owen ......... 10-31-70
617 Williams, Ralph Ecmond .•• 6-17-71
618 Bowyer, Harold Vernon ••.. 10-22-67
618 Crosbie, John Albert ......• 9-16-70
618 Duenckel, Herbert Charles •• 11-30-69
618 Kabler, William •...•.•...• 1- 6-71
619 Whitnack, Kenneth Samuel .. 11-23-70
620 Plank, Franklin A ....••••.. 8-11-70
621 Brooks, George Wallace ...• 4-24-71
625 Holton, Alvie 0 ............ 4-21-71
625 Raddant, Albert W .••...... 3-12-71
628 Gallup, Clarence Stidman ..• 3-16-71
634 Ambrosier, Lewis Warren .. 5- 9-71
634 Dolch, Edward Greenlee •..• 7- 9-70
636 Davidson, Mervin James ... 11- 1-70
641 Alphin, Harry Joshua ••.•.. 10- 4-70
642 Ryce, Andrew Charles ..••.. 6-28-71
644 Hickey, Michael Joseph ..•.• 11-18-70
644 Pedersen, Charles Severin .•. 6- 2-71
644 Sanders, John Lawrence ..•• 2-10-70
646 Wilton, Louis Phelps .•••••• 2-15-71
648 Schultz, George Eveit ..•... 12-27-70
650 Wheeling, William Thomas .12-11-70
651 Lewis, Charles Elmer ...... 3-19-71
651 McKechnie, Herbert Arthur .10- 7-70
653 Moore, Garnett Sidney •••.. 12- 8-70
654 Kihl, Henry G..•..••.•..•• 5-26-71
654 Mayberry, John K ..•••..•• 1- 7-71
654 Moore, Thomas H .••....•• 11-11-70
654 Stalcup, Raymond A.•••••• 8- 7-70
655 Bucknell, Glenn Alvin • . . • . • 4-20-71
655 Cook, George Seber ..•.•..• 9-27-70
659 Manseau, Zeph Wilson .•..•• 2-26-71
660 Daily, Laurence Alvin •.••.• 5-27-71
665 Clausen, George ••.•....••• 12-10-70
665 Davis, Roy Lee •••••••••••• 1-26-71

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
666 Albertson, Roscoe Conklin .. 11-28-70
666 Burdick, Raymond Elanzo .. 1- 5-71
666 Willard, Charles Rufus ..... 2-13-71
667 McCullough, Harry ...•••.. 5- 3-71
669 Bemiss, Guy Maxfield ...... 5-15-71
671 Bailey, Verne D .....•....•• 8-16-70
672 Kellogg, Robert Philip ...•.. 1-25-71
673 Carpenter, John Simon ..... 12- 7-70
673 Hook, William Herbert ..... 12- 8-70
673 Klein, Albert Herman ...... 8-14-70
678 Jacobson, John Arvid V.•.. 2- 4-71
678 Swan, Jesse Randolph ...... 9-11-70
678 Warner, Howry Haskell .... 12-16-70
678 Willcox, Francis James ..... 11-16-70
684 Haughton, Gayle, Jr.••...•. 9- 4-70
684 Taylor, Lee I. . • • . . • . • . . • . . 4-25-71
687 Chenoweth, Arthur Roy •... 2-22-71
687 Davidson, Mervin James .. : .11- 1-70
688 Gou, Edward Amie! ..••••.. 6-13-71
698 Carter, Clement Lee ••••.•• 5-28-71
699 Hahne, Roy Lewis ......••. 1-26-71
700 McCorkle, Paul Clarendon •• 7-23-70
702 Pickens, Bert William . . • • • • 4-22-71
705 Eastin, Blake Cassius •..•.•• 8-25-70
706 Armstrong, Cecil Feldon •... 9-17-70
706 Ruffin, Edward Joseph •••.• 4- 6-71
719 Pikes, Harold A............ 3- 3-71
722 Belli, Jack Vincent ........ 8- 5-70
722 Daugherty, Thomas Elmer •. 1-12-71
725 Briggs, Edwin Nelson ••.... 4-18-71
742 Carter, Leo Stanley ....•.•• 1-22-71
744 Luscher, Frank Leo ••.••••• 6- 1-71
749 Dyer, John Henry •••••••.• 11-18-70
757 Chandler, William Emery •.• 6-16-71
759 Walvoord, Jerry ........•• 9-16-70
760 Ritter, Vivian .........•••• 12-29-70
766 Hodges, Bernard Andrew • . • 1- 6-71
767 Hervey, Harcourt ....•.••.• 9-29-70
781 Moore, Charles E. • • . . . • • • • 5-15-71
782 Rouse, Basil Broadway •..•• 1-27-71
791 Lane, Edward Leon ••....•• 11-30-70
814 Vaughan, Joseph Harris •••• 3- 8-71
815 Ogden, Edgar Walter •...•.• 7-21-70
827 Mallachowitz, Clyde Earl ••• 9-17-70

At 12:15 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1:30 P.M.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

AFI'ERNOON SESSION - Monday, October 11, 1971
At 1:30 Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This
session was raised by Charles B. Ackerman, Past Master, Kern River Valley
Lodge No. 827. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The following Grand Masters were received with private Grand Honors,
individually welcomed by the Grand Master and escorted to seats reserved
for them:
M.".W.".MARTIN S. SICHEL,
Grand Master of Masons in Oregon,
M:.w:.Mn.ToN v. PoE,
Grand Master of Masons in Washington,
M.".W.".DEAN c. MABRY,
Grand Master of Masons in Colorado,
M.".W.".HARRY M. OvElraEY,
Grand Master of Masons in Nevada,
M.".W.".GEORGE w. KNOFF,
Grand Master of Masons in Idaho,

M:.w:.AARoN, HEv,
Grand Master of Masons in Utah,

M.".W.".liERBERT G. GREER,
Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were received with public Grand
Honors, welcomed by the Grand Master and escorted to seats reserved for
them.
R:.w:.w. DEXTER ELLIOTT,
Grand Secretary of Oregon,
R.".W.".EnwARD L. BENNETT,
Grand Secretary of Washington,
R.·.w.·.nEAN c. SETTLE,
Grand Secretary of Colorado,
R.".W.".LYM:AN E. SMITH,
Grand Secretary of Montana,
M.".W.".DAVID M. TAYLOR,
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of British Columbia,
R.·.w.·.cLARENCE M. GRosHELL,
Grand Secretary of Utah,

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
M:.W:.GERALD I. CRAIG,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Arizona,
M.'.W.".CHESTER HODGES,

Past Grand Master of Ohio,

M:.w:.J. QumBY WILsoN,
Past Grand Master of Oklahoma.
RESPONSES BY DISTINGUISHED GUESTS

The Grand Master called on various distinguished guests during the course
of the Communication to address the assembled brethren. Each expressed the
fraternal greetings of his Grand Jurisdiction and gratefully acknowledged the
courtesies extended to him by the Grand Lodge of California. Their spirited,
humorous, and thoughtful remarks were received with attention and enthusiasm.
YOUTH GROUP REPRESENTATIVES

At the close of the Tuesday morning session Grand Lodge was opened to
visiting guests and ladies to receive the following youth group representatives.
Linda Elkin
International Order of Rainbow for Girls.
Nancy Curry
International Order of Job's Daughters.
Daniel Costner
International Order of DeMolay.
M. W. Chester Hodges
Past Grand Master of Ohio and Grand Master of the
International Order of DeMolay.
The youth group representatives each addressed the assembled guests and
each in turn was accorded a standing ovation.
The Grand Master called up Daniel Costner and Mrs. Costner, and with
her assistance M. W. Hodges presented the DeMolay Medal of Valor to Daniel
Costner. Private Daniel Costner had previously been awarded the Navy and
Marine Corps Medal for heroism.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
My Brethren, on October 16, 1970 you confided to me the implements
of speculative Masonry, entrusting me with the care of the Craft in California and Hawaii for a term which concludes on Friday next.
The duties and responsibilities have been challenging, the fraternal support heartening, the friendships created stimulating, and the realization of
having served you to the best of my ability, deficient as it may have been,
has contributed a fullness to my life which could not otherwise have been
achieved. Please accept my profound thanks for the confidence expressed
and the opportunity bestowed.
GENERAL CONDITION OF MASONRY

The general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction is sound.
Harmony has prevailed within the Grand Lodge official structure and, subject
to a few exceptions, within the Lodges themselves. The exceptions simply
reaffirm the truism that in a membership of more than 233,000 the human
element will sometimes erupt in a fashion not countenanced by the teachings
of Masonry. Where that has occurred I have endeavored to bring about a
better Masonic relationship, and failing that have taken such corrective
steps as my judgment dictated.
The office of Grand Master requires the discharge of executive duties and
the performance of ceremonies together with the pursuit of fraternal
relations.
In the first phase, it has been my policy to delegate responsibilities to
the Committees and Boards which rightfully should assume them, and to
intervene only when I deemed it essential for the welfare of the Craft or
the proper administration of Grand Lodge and its related entities, and the
constituent Lodges. I have found this practice to be effective and productive..
Most Committees and Boards have diligently and intelligently rendered the
required services, some with especially commendable enterprise and devotion.
The counsel, cooperation and support of all the elective Grand Officers
has proved invaluable. The entire appointive line of Grand Officers has demonstrated a loyalty and enthusiasm quite unsurpassed. Residing in areas well
dispersed throughout our Jurisdiction, they have effectively brought the
entire Jurisdiction into closer unity.
In stating that the general condition is sound I do not overlook the
scattered situations where Lodges have suffered depleted membership, financial debility, inharmonious relationship among some of the members, and
lack of officer material. These occur through changing conditions and other
factors, and for the most part are dealt with by mergers, consultation and
admonishment. They are not sufficiently serious to discuss at length except
for those which are treated individually later in this message.

28

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The numerous ceremonies and receptions which are listed hereinafter,
were all well attended, in many instances surpassing expectations.
sionally however I noted that the majority of the audience comprised
,
,
.
Lodge Officers Grand Lodge Committeemen, Grand Officers, and wh en mvited the: wiv~ of these brethren. This indicated to me that insufficient publicity or i.romotional effort had been employed to attract the membership
of the Lodges, as well as the general public at open affairs, such as ~mer­
stone layings, and to make it known that their presence was welcome. I
suggest that efforts should be directed accordingly.
On the affirmative it is noteworthy that our Catholic friends, including
Knights of Columbus in full uniform have participated with us in numerous
public ceremonies, such as the laying of cornerstones for public schools and
civic edifices. It has been their frequent custom to present the Flag of the
United States to the organi7.ation involved.
For functions which included convening Grand Lodge in special communications, it has been the policy to request attendance by all California
Grand Officers if convenient, irrespective of residence. The response has been
excellent and the effect salutary. It has resulted in a uniformly high standard
of performance and a display of enthusiasm which has been .refl~ed by the
Masons in the areas visited. I respectfully suggest to the mconung Grand
Master that this policy be continued.

°?=8·

THE RELATION OF MAsoNRY To THE
WoRLo AoouT Us
The Grand Masters' Messages in the years gone by, for a century and
more have decried the state of immorality, the decadence of religion and
cultu~e and diminishing economic stability in our Nation and in the World.
Concu~ently they have declared that Freemasonry has contributed character to our social structure, inspiration to our religious and cultural efforts,
and strength to our economy.
I offer the following observations as prevailing in the month of October
in the year 1971.
During the last five decades we have achieved a life expectancy increased
by fifty percent, we have reduced epidemics to a shadow, we have progressed
in science from elementary in automobiles and aircraft to interplanetary travel
and ground transportation on the moon itself. We can see on a screen and hear
by electronic vibrations people and events on the other side of the world. We
have afforded our youth educational opportunities beyond comparison.
The adult population, however, has failed in some respects. We have
not found a way to end war; we have not offered a solution for racial discrimination · we have not been able to reduce crime nor even to stem it. We
have not b~n able to repress numbers of revolutionary youth, aided and
abetted by traiterous adults, from criminally destroying public school facilities and other property, viciously assaulting our fire department personnel,

29

and villifying and murdering our law enforcement agents. We have not
llllJUlled the tide of resort to the use of drugs. We have witnessed an ap-

palling attrition of patriotism, and loss of respect for our courts of law.

The whole fabric of a relatively minute fractional proportion of the population of this Nation is gangrenous.
We may be grateful that it is a small proportion. But as cancer unchecked
will a,dvance death, growth of these malignant units in our society will toll
tbe death knell of our America unless they are checked and destroyed.
I suggest no compromise. I propose no dialogue with the so-called dissenters who are in reality criminals and anarchists. Our "Home of the Free"
can remain so only by the exercise of control. The pendulum has swung too
far toward judicial leniency, public inaction, and a shedding of individual
.-ponsibili ty.
This overall condition provides the stage of life where Masonry is needed.
)fasonry possesses the man power, augmented by affiliated organi7.ations, to
exert a beneficial influence throughout our society. The potential, however,
js far from being realized. The teachings of Masonry lie dormant in too
many of our members. I would encourage, yes plead, that every man who
bas knelt at a Masonic alter rise daily with a consciousness of tasks confronting him and those about him, and by precept and by example strive for
that true Brotherhood of Man under the Fatherhood of God which we
cherish so fervently. Then, and only then, may the millions and more millions
of our young people gaze upon a vista portraying a world of the future in
which Glory to God and on Earth peace, goodwill to men will be meaningful.
NECROLOGY

The Report of the Committee on Necrology has made appropriate and
detailed reference to our departed brethren. I endorse the sentiments which
have been expressed.
However, I cannot refrain from a personal tribute to three of our brethren
who passed from this earthy abode during the year, because we were in
frequent Masonic communication.
Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, our 95th Grand Master, lived a
life fraught with significant contributions to Masonry, to legal affairs and
to society.
Very Worshipful Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer, served Masonry
as a lawyer, a great ritualist, and contributed a true harmonizing influence
to the Craft.
Worshipful George W. Cornwell was appointed by me to the office of
Grand Bible Bearer. A religious man, and a devoted Mason, he bore the
Holy Book in our processions with true dignity for most of the year.
One man, not a member of Grand Lodge, so distinguished himself in the
defense of our country, that I deem it appropriate to mention him. Audie

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Murphy, a member in good standing of North Hollyw~ ~e N?. 542,
and a charter member of Heritage Lodge No. 764, was killed m an airplane
accident on May 30, 1971 at the age of forty-six.
In World War II he rose from Private to First Lieutenant in thirty
months of combat, sustained repeated wounds, and heroically accomplished
numerous almost unbelievable military feats. He returned from this conflict,
not yet t~enty-one, to be not only the most decorated man in World War II,
but also the most decorated soldier in the United States history.
It is fitting that a brother thus honored should be recognized in our
Grand Lodge record.

the Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdicti on), Robert B. Watts, (former Grand
Chaplain and also former Grand Orator) and Brother Thomas H. Kuchel
~former Senator fro~ Califor~a). Another Californian, John B. Shaw, was
m attendanc e as President of High Twelve Internatio nal.
One of the special events was a luncheon hosted by Henry Clausen at the
House of the Temple, which is the magnificent headquarters of the Scottish
Rite, Southern Jurisdiction.
The entire experience was truly rewarding, and your Grand Master is
of the opinion that the California representatives made a fair contribution to
the events - and he can assure you that California is recognized as a leader
in the Grand Jurisdictions of North America.

30

GRAND MASTERS ' CONFERE NCE
GEORGE WASffiNG TON MASONIC NATIONA L MEMORIA L

The Grand Lodge of California was well represented at the Conference of
Grand Masters of Masons in North America which convened in Washington,
D. C. on February 23, 1971.
In addition to your Grand Master, there were in attendance the Deputy
Grand Master, Lester S. McElwain; the Grand Secretary, Edward H. Siems,
P.G.M.; Guy B. Mize, P.G.M. and Eugene S. Hopp, P.G.M.
More or less concurrently with the Grand Masters' Conference, the Grand
Secretaries hold their own meetings; Guy Mize was present as a Trustee of the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association; and Gene Hopp
was a recognized leader in sessions of the Philalethes Society.
In addition to individually arranged meetings of the different groups,
certain major assemblies brought everyone together. Dr. Nor~ Vincent
Peale was the speaker at one of these. Brother Peale is a splendid example
of Masonry in action, and is an inspiring speaker.
The Conference affords an opportun ity for the leaders of Masonry in the
United States, Canada, and Mexico, with distinguished visitors from other
lands to exchange views and experiences, discuss problems and possible solutions 'and generally to promote the interest and welfare of the Craft. The men
in atfendance represented approximately four and a half million Masons.
Your own Grand Master had the honor to be elected Chairman of the Conference during the preliminary proceedings, and he presided thereafter at the
Conference. He continues in this office until next February , 1972, will return
to Washington to open that conference in 1972, and will preside until a succeeding Chairman is elected.
The Deputy Grand Master, Les McElwain, was appointed to a permanent
Committee to plan the Masonic celebration of the 200th Anniversary of 1776.
The Grand Secretary Ed Siems was elected second Vice-President of the
Conference of Grand Secretaries in North America.
Joining with the Californians already mentioned, in various portions of
the conference programs, were Earl Warren, P.G.M. (former Chief Justice of
the United States), Henry Clausen, P.G.M. (Sovereign Grand Commander of

31

CLANDES TINE MASONRY

I have received letters during the year asking why we do not invite
Negroes of good character into our membership.
Such letters are answered by referring to our inflexible rule that we invite
no one, and to the C.M.C. provision which expressly requires that no man be
denied membership on ac~ount of color. Moreover, I have been informed
that most Negroes who wish to become "Masons " prefer the Lodges where
their own color dominates.
A "non-Ma son" Black reporter for the Fresno Bee asked me for an intervi~w on this su~ject. I gave him detailed answers along the foregoing lines.
His column, which appeared in print under the heading "MASONS BLUR
COLOR LINE" was a fair statement. In the same articl~ he pointedly commented on the exclusion of Blacks by another fraternal order.
Also I have been urged to study the possibility of an understanding with
Black "Gr~d Lodges" whereby· mutual acknowledgement is granted. In one
case I received, as Chairman of the Conference of Grand Masters of North
America, a direct request for recognition "in amity" of a designated "Grand
Lodge".
Such, of course, would be repugnan t to the fundamental American doctrine
tha~ _there can be only one regular Grand Lodge in a given geographical or
political boundary. Moreover, I am informed that there are so many localized
non-organized "Grand Lodges" that even if it were possible to recognize them
in some manner, a state of confusion would manifest itself.
I am aware of the problem for which I have no solution. With the issue
?f r'.1°al ~is~mination and its elimination looming large in the public eye,
it will be mevitable that the subject will require further attention .
HISTORY OF THE GRAND LODGE IN BOOKLET FORM

I;° conformity to Grand Master Mac:Phee's Recommendation No. 3, as
modi.fled and ~dopted at the 1970 Annual Communication, I appointed a
Specral Comnuttee to prepare a concise history of the Grand Lodge of
California to be published in booklet form.

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This committee was selected with care to obtaining the best talent available. It included Charles C. Hushaw, newspaper editor;
Edwin N. Stansel, retired newspaper executive;
Max L. Heyman, Jr., author and Professor of History at San Fernando
College.
These three brethren applied their professional ability with true Masonic
devotion, and the booklet bas been produced. In their task they were afforded
splendid cooperation by many other brethren, some of whom are mentioned
in the Foreword of the publication.
We have printed 10,000 copies, approximately 1,000 of which will be
distributed to those in attendance at the Annual Communication, with the
Advance Reports on presentation of the proper coupon.
The balance are being placed in stock, and are available for purchase at
50 cents each, which is approximately the cost. The plates are being preserved, and if the demand justifies, any required quantity will be obtained.
A unanimous vote of appreciation should be extended to the brethren who
rendered this special service.

CONTINUATION oF SPECIAL CoMMITTEE To PREPARE
SINGLE lIARD BACK VoLUME OF GRAND LoooE HISTORY

It has long been my desire to see a history of Masonry in California and
Hawaii centered around the Grand Lodge, in a single volume of perhaps 400
pages, more or less, written in popular reading style, well illustrated. The
Whitsell four volume work published in 1950 is exceedingly useful for reference, but it does not invite attention by the casual reader, and also much of
interest bas occurred since its publication.
The new history in booklet form referred to above, provides an excellent
outline for the more extended work suggested. Moreover, in the writing of
the booklet, a large amount of material has already been assembled which
can be used.
Probably much more than a year will be required to accomplish the purpose. It has been estimated that the project may require four years or more.
It would be quite significant to have such a book appear in conjunction with
any observance by the Grand Lodge of California of the 200th Anniversary
of the signing of the Declaration of Independence - in 1976.
Therefore, I recommend that Grand Lodge approve the preparation of a
single volume, in popular reading style, revolving around the Grand Lodge,
to be available in time for any Masonic observance of the 200th Anniversary
of the Signing of the Declaration of Independence; and to that objective:
succeeding Grand Masters continue the appointment of a Speci&l Committee
for such purpose; this policy to continue until the task is completed or is discontinued by action of Grand Lodge at an Annual Communication.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33

MASONIC STORY IN MOTION PICTURE

Don Ingalls, Past Master of North Hollywood Lodge No. 542 and Chair-

man of the Special Committee on Film Projects has written directed and
produced a sound motion picture in color entitled "Journey I~to Truth".
It is a. strikingly dramatic and artistic production portraying the journey
of a man mto the realms of Masonry.
Brothe~ Don,. who as a prof~onal has numerous national television
sb~s to his. credit, bas created this twenty minute film by the contribution
of his own time and talent, and a very substantial personal expenditure for
film, cameramen, sound recording, other technical assistance processing
'
'
travel, and other items incident to a film production.
• Bro~er Tom Fran~n, well known to television audiences, has donated
bis services as narrator m the picture.
~e nega~ve and a projection print are the gift to Grand Lodge by Don.
Additional pnnts can be made as desired.
A premier showing of the film will be made Tuesday evening October
'
12, in the Auditorium.
No action by Grand Lodge is required except a tremendous vote of thanks
to Don Ingalls, and others who contributed their time and talent.
Au. MASONIC FAMILY RECEPTION
Of the many splendid receptions accorded the Grand Master the AllMasonic Family Reception sponsored by the Inspectors and Looges of
the Fifth Division saw the largest attendance and the most elaborate program.
This colorful event was held on Sunday November 15 19701 in the
Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. It was pl~ned and sta;ed by William
A. "Lon''. Fish~ack, then Assistant Grand Lecturer, who served as Master of
Ceremorues, with frater?81 cooperation of the Al Malaikah Temple brethren.
Jerry.Rosen, ~.M. o~ Sllve~ Trowel Lodge No. 415, provided and directed a
~ficent eighty-eight piece Masonic Symphony Orchestra. Virtually all
lfasonically affiliated organi?.ations were represented.
A detailed account of the event was published in the Spring 1971 issue
of the Califomia Freemason, but this Annual Message would not be complete without reference to it, and especial thanks to Lon Fishback Jerry
'
Rmen, and all who participated.
]OB'S DAUGHTERS AND RAINBOW FOR GIRLS
~uring the year, I have received correspondence from some mothers and

the girls themselves. Some of the letters have sought intervention or a ruling
~t .is n~t the province of the Grand Master to enter into the intema.i

Mministration of .th~ fine organi?.ations. However, where Masons, Lodges
or Temple Associations have been directly involved, I have endeavored
through fraternal approach to solve some differences over rental and avail-

34

35

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ability of Temple facilities, and to increase Masonic participation in .some
areas. The principle in mind is that support should move beyond simple
applause.
.
Upon request, I also have applied my interpretation of the regulations
appearing in the C.M.C. Appendix (1970 Supp. p. 68) to facts presented
relative to fund raising activities. No problems have been encountered.
Full cooperation has been enjoyed.
Earlier this year I accepted an invitation to attend the Grand Assembly of
Rainbow for Girls, held at the Convention Center in Fresno. This was a very
colorful occasion, with more than 5,000 girls in attendance. They gave me
an enthusiastic reception, and accepted my remarks with more than courteous
demonstration.
Later in the year I was received at the Grand Bethel of Job's Da?ghters
at the Arena in Long Beach. This Order, with its larger membership, saw
more than 10,000 girls registered and present. !heir courtesy and respect
for the Office of Grand Master was most heartenmg.
These events were magnificently staged.
It was most interesting to note that in both visitations, an audible youthful exhiliration could be transformed in a fleeting second to a quiet dignity,
for the opening of the Holy Book, a prayer, or the presentatio? of an esteemed officer or visitor, and an attentive ear to a person addressmg them.
Their purposes are worthy, their conduct and their ente~rises are co~­
mendable, and they should receive our commendation and active support with
increasing magnitude.

The relationship between your Grand Master and the Grand Officers of
DeMolay has been most cordial and cooperative. At my invitation, the
Grand Master of DeMolay, Chester Hodges (a Past Grand Master of Ohio)
is present at our Annual Communication.
I have attended DeMolay functions in both Northern and Southern
California, as well as in Hawaii. A convention in Redding was an outstanding
event. A Reception in Honolulu, tendered jointly by DeMolay, Job's Daughters and Rainbow for Girls proved especially inspiring. Participation in
the ceremonies of a Priory of Knighthood, held at Long Beach was more
than rewarding. At Palm Springs a Golden Anniversary Conclave saw a class
of 900 receive the DeMolay Degree. Your Grand Master was signally honored at this event, and addressed an audience of 2,000 at the final banquet.
On this occasion, I informed members of DeMolay and the others in
attendance of my directive to the Masters of all Lodges for the appointment
of a DeMolay Liaison Committee in every Lodge of our Jurisdiction. A copy
of this directive appears below. My announcement at the conclave was greeted
with enthusiastic acclaim. It already has found an affirmative response from
both Masons and DeMolays.
It is fervently hoped that the momentum generated will increase with
each day.
GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

DEMOLAY
Sponsorship of DeMolay involves not only support of that organization
but attention to the responsibilities of Masons who are its leaders and
advisors. Cooperation is essential from the sponsorship of the smallest ~ap­
ter to a constructive relationship with the International Supreme Council.
Toward this objective, I have created and appointed a DeMolay ~iaison
Board composed of William H. Price and Raymond A. Ebbage, Seruor and
Junior Grand Wardens, Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary (and a member
of the International Supreme Council) , Donald H. McDonald, a Past Master
of Harding Lodge No. 584, Richard L. Braden, a Past Master of Sacramento
Lodge No. 40 and Mon Tai Luke, a Past Master of Pearl Harbor Lodge
No. 598.
These brethren have ably represented the Masons of this jurisdiction by
surveying troubled areas, counselling with and offering assi~~c~ to John ~·
Wixon Executive Officer for the Northern DeMolay Jurisdiction of California,' Melvin A. Pixley, Executive Officer for the Southern Jurisdiction, and
Kenneth L. Look, Executive Officer for Hawaii.
This Board has relieved your Grand Master of numerous details which
invariably arise for attention in a type of organization such as DeMolay.

HERBERT A. HUEBNER
GRAND MASTER

23, 1971
To the Masters of the Constituent Lodges:
AUGUST

DEAR BRETHREN:

In this era of the so-called "Generation Gap," more than ever we need
to solidify our relationships with the young men who will, in such a very
short time, be entrusted with our welfare and well-being. We have a definite
~nsibility to encourage and implement their interest and activities in
those areas which will produce the m<>&t desirous results. The Grand Lodge
of California is vitally interested in the development and growth of DeMolay.
You already know of the great concern the Masons of California have for
the future of our public schools, and the young people of DeMolay make
up a substantial percentage of the students in our schools. The precepts
taught in the Order of DeMolay further advance our objectives in our schools;
Jberefore, we in the Fraternity should take great pride in encouraging our
young men to become members of the Order and assist them as they progress.
Since 1952 the Grand Lodge of California has permitted Lodges to
sponsor DeMolay Chapters. Many Lodges presently are sponsoring a Chapter

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

36

37

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and are actively promoting DeMolay. However, there are many DeMolay
Chapters suffering from insufficient interest by our Masonic family.
In order to make DeMolay more meaningful to all members of Grand
Lodge and the Masons of California, earlier this year, I appointed a DeMolay
Liaison Board to encourage greater cooperation between the three DeMolay
jurisdictions functioning in California and Hawaii, to .bring about closer c~
operation between our Grand Lodge and the Intemat1onal Supreme Council
of DeMolay in Kansas City and to bring about greater interest and involvement by the Masons of California in DeMolay and its activities. The meetings of the Board have been productive and encouraging.
Being convinced that it is imperative that we act to create more interest
and Masonic involvement in DeMolay, I direct you, as Master of your
Lodge to appoint at least one member of your Lodge to act as a liaison between' your Lodge and the nearest DeMolay Chapter in your area. Your
appointee should be a man who can communicate well with young people
and relate to them and, if possible, should be a former member of DeMolay.
He, or they, should attend at least one meeting of the Chap~r each month,
as well as Advisory Council meetings, if invited by the Councl. He, or they,
should report the activities of the Chapter, to his Lodge at each stated mee~­
ing, thereby generating an interest among our brethren. Our future 10
Masonry, as well as in the Nation, may well lie in these young men.
The appointment should be made prior to the September Sta~ Meeting
of your Lodge. This directive should be read at each Stated Meeting, and the
appointment be announced and recorded in the minutes of the Meeting.
Should you need assistance in implementing this directive, the names of
the DeMolay Liaison Board to which I referred are listed in the 1971 Grand
Lodge Roster. Please feel free to call the one on your area.
Cordially and fraternally,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Grand Master
ATTEST:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary
HAwAnAN VISITATION

The traditional visitation of the Grand Master to the Lodges in Hawaii
was a time of joyous fraternal relationship. At my request the Grand Marshal,
DeWald Baum accompanied Mrs. Huebner and me, and rendered yeoman
services in attending to details of the trip.
From our welcome at the Honolulu Airport laden with exotically scented
ftower leis, to a white tie reception, a lavish luau with entertainment, ~
devotional service on Sunday and a gathering with the youth groups in the
evening, it was a constantly moving panorama.

We cruised Pearl Harbor by courtesy of the Admiral's Barge placing
a wreath at the Arizona Memorial, and offering some words of appreciation
for the sacrifices of the men there entombed.
On Kaui, Maui and Hawaii we enjoyed the hospitality of the Masons
and their wives at informal dinners and on automobile tours.
It is a land and people beautiful to behold.
PROPOSED GRAND LoDGE OF HAWAII
At the 1970 Annual Communicaton, Grand Master MacPhee reported

ID bis Annual Message the results of a survey conducted by written ballot
among the Lodges in Hawaii concerning the possibility of forming a Grand
~

Lodge of Hawaii. Of the ballots cast, a large majority of the members voting "indicated they were not in favor of a new Grand Lodge of Hawaii.

Seven of the ten Hawaiian Lodges voted heavily against a new Grand Lodge.

Three of the ten Lodges voted in favor of such a Grand Lodge." (1970
Proc. p. 40).
During the current Masonic year the subject of a proposed Grand Lodge of
Hawaii has been activated by the adoption of resolutions in six of the
Hawaiian Lodges providing for the election of a commission to meet with similar
commissions of other Lodges and empowered, authorized and directed conjointly with the other commsissions to form a Grand Lodge of Hawaii.
Each resolution has been adopted by a majority vote of those members present at a Stated Meeting. No assent has been solicited or obtained from those
members who were unable to or for any reason, did not attend even if it be a
llUDllDOned meeting.
These actions cannot go unnoticed, especially because there is a marked
division of opinion on the subject among the brethren residents of Hawaii.
On the Grand Master's visitation to Hawaii, in July last, numerous Masonic
groups, as well as individual brethren, sought and were accorded conferences
with the Grand Master on the topic.
It is recognized that three Chartered Lodges in a State where no Grand
Lodge has been established have the right to meet in convention and organize a
Grand Lodge for such state. (C.M.C. Sec. 16(r).)
Historically there is no record of any problem involving the determination
of each Lodge to enter into the compact with the other Lodges. The method
of reaching such determination conceivably could be a factor in arriving
at a conclusion whether the new Grand Lodge was regularly established.
The situation in Hawaii presents some other complications for which
there appear to be no fully responsive precedents, and which would discourage exercise of the "three Lodge" rule.
Hawaiian Masonry has been closely allied to California Masonry since
1852, and all ten Lodges in Hawaii were chartered by the Grand Lodge of Calibnia, and continue their existence as constituent Lodges within the jurisdiction of California. There are no Lodges in Hawaii chartered by other Grand
Jurisdictions.

38

39

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Under these conditions, your Grand Master is of the opi?ion tha~. he, and
upon proper presentation, Grand Lodge, owe to our Lodg~s m Hawau and to
the Masons who are their members, a policy statement m the nature of an
advisory declaration, with guidelines delineating procedures w~ich would J?rovide a basis for cooperation and support by our Grand Lodge m the orgaruzational program of our Brethren in Hawaii, and formal recognition of the Grand
Lodge of Hawaii when that eventuality is attained.
This approach is offered in the interest of harmony and the general welfare
of the Craft.
The position of your Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master and the
Senior and Junior Grand Wardens is that if a majority of the Lodges in Hawaii,
by fair and equitable procedures, resulting in concurrence by a majority of the
members of these Lodges, unite in the movement for a Grand Lodge of Hawaii,
they should be accorded due cooperation and support, and that the remaining
Lodges, in the interest of harmony and the welfare of the Craft, should accede
to the will of the majority.
Suggested procedures will next be discussed.
In the first place, there is no express provision in the Uniform Code of
By-Laws adopted for and by Lodges, or in the California Masonic Code, prescribing action to be taken by a constituent Lodge looking to its participation
in forming a new Grand Lodge. It should not be transacted as routine business.
Nor is a summoned meeting the full answer, because it is well known that by
reason of residence elsewhere or absence in service many members of Hawaiian
Lodges cannot attend.
A procedural analogy is found in the provisions for the consolidation of two
or more Lodges, for in such case at least one of the Lodges receives a new
Charter or an endorsement on its original Charter.
The applicable law is found in Sec. 375 C.M.C. (Supp.). Briefly, it provides
that two or more Lodges contemplating consolidation, should adopt at a stated
meeting, a resolution that a consolidation is expedient, and that committees be
appointed to meet and arrange terms.
Notice in writing of the adoption of such resolution is given forthwith to
all members of the Lodge. The signature of at least three-fourths of the members of each Lodge shall be obtained to a paper or papers substantially in this
form: "In pursuance of certain action of .....• Lodge ••.••. and ...••.
Lodge No...•... , tending to the consolidation of said Lodges into one Lodge,
under the name and number of ...... Lodge No..•.... , we, the undersigned,
members of ...... Lodge No....... , do hereby express our assent to and our
desire for such proposed consolidation."
At a stated meeting not earlier than the third stated meeting after adoption
of the first Resolution, the Master of each Lodge shall canvass the consents of
members of his Lodge, and if he finds the required number of consents have
been properly signed, he shall declare the consolidation to be approved by said
Lodge.

If the Grand Master shall find it impracticable for a Lodge to secure the
requisite written consents, he may approve the consolidation upon the written
consent of not less than a majority of the members of each Lodge.
That general procedure, modified to adapt it to the Haw.~iian situation,
would appear to be entirely feasible, fair and equitable. The wntten consent of
a majority should be accepted.
This should be done by obtaining the signature of at least a majority of the
members of eachLodge on a paper or paper substantially in ~s form:."Subj~ct
to similar action of at least five other regular Lodges located m Hawan, tending
to the formation of a Grand Lodge of Hawaii, we, the undersigned, members
of ...... Lodge No ......• , do hereby express our assent to and our desire for

t

such proposed Grand Lodge.

"
MEMBER SIGNATURE

At a stated meeting not earlier than the third stated meeting after notice to
the membership of the adoption of the first Resolution, the Master of each
Lodge should canvass the consents of members of his Lodge, and if he finds the
required number of consents have been p~operly signed, he sh~ul? declare his
Lodge to be duly committed to the form~tion ~f and members~p m the Grand
Lodge of Hawaii; the Lodge may then direct its course accordmgly.
Some portions of the foregoing memorandum possibly mig~t be cons~ed
to be legislative in character, but there appears t? be n.o purpose m perpetu~ting
in the California Masonic Code provisions dealing with a non-recurring Situation. Moreover, these guidelines are not offered as mandatory, but as a statement of policy upon which cooperation can be predicated.
Your Grand Master has upon occasion outlined in general the thoughts
expressed in the foregoing statement, and has suggested that Hawaiian Lodges
defer action pending a statement of guidelines and possible action at the Ann~~
Communication. For this he has been commended by some, and severely cnticized by others as "interfering in the internal affairs" of the Lodges in Hawaii.
I would remind the latter group of Brethren that the Grand Master's responsibility extends to all members of our jurisdiction, which includes those who may
not as well as those who do desire the immediate formation of a Grand Lodge
'
'
. when
of Hawaii.
Your Grand Master
seeks only to be assured that such action
taken, represents a true majority of the entire membership of each of at least
six Hawaiian Lodges.
Furthermore a Grand Lodge of Hawaii so created would be regarded as
~regularly form:d" (C.M.C. Sec. 16 (m=l) and if conforming to the other
aiequirements of Sec. 16-(m), due recognition by the Grand Lodge of California
should be given.
I recommend that this section of the Grand Master's Annual Message be
adopted in principle as an advisory guide for the Lodges in Hawaii and their
Dlembers; reserving for future consideration the 11ttitude of this Grand Lodge
toward a Grand Lodge of Hawaii which might be created under procedures
differing significantly from those suggested herein.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The foregoing guidelines were printed in advance and page proofs sent to
the Masters of all Lodges in Hawaii with an invitation to comment thereon.
I am informed that the Masters of the four Lodges in the 385th Masonic
District expect their Lodges to be governed by these guidelines.
The six Lodges in the 382nd and 384 Districts have evidenced an intent
to the contrary and toward that end, so I am informed, a meeting of elected
commissioners of the six Lodges was called for October 9, 1971, now postponed to October 23rd.
Because of the imminence of the meeting as first announced, and to
preserve the status quo for more deliberate consideration, I issued an Edict
October 6, 1971 giving an advance notice thereof by a telegram of the same
date. The telegram and the Edict are herein set forth.
"It is my direction that meeting of Commissioners called for October 9, 1971 re proposed Grand Lodge of Hawaii be postponed per
edict enrout airmail. Wire confirmation of compliance."

ter and becoming extinct; or (3) requesting consent of the Grand
Lodge of California to sever its allegiance to this Grand Lodge in
order to join in forming a Grand Lodge of Hawaii; and abiding by
the Grand Lodge of California's action on such request.
Pending clarification of the choice which the respective Lodges
in Hawaii elect to take and any disposition by the Grand Lodge of
California or the Grand Master it is my direction A. That no further action be taken by any Lodge in Hawaii or
by any officer or member thereof or by any commission representing
a Lodge having as its objective the formation of a Grand Lodge of
Hawaii, except for submission to its entire membership of an opportunity to give written asset or dissent to the proposal.
B. That no Mason, a member in another jurisdiction and not a
member of a California or Hawaiian Lodge, shall participate in the
movement for a Grand Lodge of Hawaii or interfere or intervene in
the affairs of a Lodge in Hawaii.
This edict shall remain in force until modified, vacated or replaced by the present Grand Master, the Grand Lodge of California
or a succeeding Grand Master.

40

HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Grand Master

GRAND MASTER'S EDICT
TO THE LODGES IN THE STATE OF HAWAII AND TO THE
OFFICERS AND MEMBERS THEREOF AND SOJOURNING MASONS
It is reported to me that six Lodges in Hawaii, all in the 382nd
and 384th Masonic Districts, have by ballot at Stated Meetings
voted to form a Grand Lodge of Hawaii and each has elected commissioners with authority and power to join with the others in the
creation of such Grand Lodge;
That the total vote in favor was approximately 246, with 109 in
opposition, the yes vote representing approximately 7% of the total
membership of the ten Lodges in Hawaii;
That in no case has a majority of the membership of a Lodge
assented by written ballot or otherwise to this purpose;
......
That my advisory guidelines have been ignored or rejected by
the officers and members of the six Lodges which are the proponents;
That a meeting of the commissioners has been called for October 9, 1971, and another for October 23, 1971.
The other four Lodges in the 385th Masonic District have refrained from comparable action.
All Lodges, their officers and members are reminded that they
are chartered by and owe their allegiance to the Grand Lodge of
California, and that such Grand Lodge maintains jurisdiction over
all. In the present posture of the situation a Lodge has the choice
of (1) continuing in that relationship; or (2) surrendering its char-

41

HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Grand Master
It is clear from developments that any Grand Lodge action adopting in
principle the initially recommended guidelines merely as advisory for the
Lodges in Hawaii would probably be insufficient. Therefore in order to
preclude a possible confusion in the Masonic structure in Hawaii a further
declaration of principles more positive in character is also recommended as
follows:
I. The Lodges in Hawaii are constituent Lodges of the Grand Lodge of
California and owe their allegiance to such Grand Lodge unless and until
they request and obtain permission to sever that allegiance in order to become
constituent Lodges of a Grand Lodge of Hawaii. No such request has been
received from any Lodge in Hawaii.
II. Those Lodges are informed that the Grand Lodge of California does
not look with favor upon the creation of a Grand Lodge of Hawaii by a small
tninority of the members of the Hawaiian Lodges. This would not be considered as a representative action, and the Grand Lodge of California does
not propose to recognize any such Grand Lodge as regularly formed.
III. The Grand Lodge of California, on the record now at hand, does not .
regard the Commissioners presently elected for the purpose of meeting to
form a Grand Lodge of Hawaii as possessing the requisite authority to accomplish such purpose.
IV. The Grand Officers, Inspectors and members of Boards and Committees resident in Hawaii and serving the Grand Lodge of California are

42

43

GRAND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

d Lodge and to the Grand Master
expected to be and remain loyal to this Gran
ise the Masters and Wardens
as long as they occupy those positions. Likew
support of Gran d Lodge policy
of the Lodges in Hawaii are committed to the
as now established or as may be modified.
aii is at liber ty to advocate
V. Any officer or member of a Lodge in Haw
a Grand Lodge of Hawaii,
of
the expediency and desirability of the formation
ved by a truly represenachie
be
but culmination of any such objective must
policy acceptable to
with
e
rdanc
acco
in
tative assent of the membership and
d Master during the interim bethe Grand Lodge of California or the Gran
tween Annual Communications.
not recognize the Resolutions
VI. The Grand Lodge of California does
aiian Lodges authorizing and
which have been heretofore adopted in Haw
Grand Lodge of Hawaii as valid
empowering the Commissioners to form a
null and void. Furthermore, no
and the Resolutions are to be treat ed as
shall be presented in any Lodge
Resolution contrary to the foregoing policy
or Acting Master.
er
Mast
in Hawaii nor be entertained by any
& DIST RICT S
the metropolitan areas have
The changing patte rns of population within
ntly established Divisions
curre
six
the
produced an unbalanced condition in
ng an excessive workload on some,
of our jurisdiction. This has resulted in placi
erences, the Annual Communicacreated problems in planning for Spring Conf
nce of travel.
tion Grand Lodge Ceremonies, and inconvenie
'At the request of the Grand Master, the Ritual Comnuttee conducted a
a considerable period of time.
thorough study of this situation extending over
involved, the Ritual CommitAfter due consideration of the many factors
Very Worshipful H. Douglas
tee speaking through the Grand Lecturer,
ict composition of the
Le~ons, presented a proposal for changes in the Distr
several Divisions as follows:
icts.
Division 1 would remain as is. Tota l of 2 7 Distr
and 228, all of which would
227
Division 2 would lose 3 Districts - 226,
icts.
Distr
26
go into Division 4, leaving
421 from Division 4, and 506,
Division 3 would gain 4 Dist ricts - 420 and
icts.
Distr
31
508 from Division 5, leaving
and 228 from Division 2, and
Division 4 would gain 3 Districts - 226, 227
h would go into Division
whic
421
would lose 2 Districts - 420 and
3, leaving a total of 20 Districts.
Division 6, and would lose
Division 5 would gain 1 Distr ict - 618 from
and 578, 584, 586, 588,
3,
ion
Divis
to
8 Districts - 506, and 508
594 and 596 to Division 6, leaving 41 Districts.
586, 588, 594 and 596, all
Division 6 would gain 6 Districts - 578, 584,
- 618 which would go
from Division 5, and would lose 1 Distr ict
into Division 5, leaving a total of 38 Districts.

which would then comprise
The. follow?n~. tabulation shows the Districts
sheet shows the recommended
the various DlVlSion;, and the accompanying
icts which are involved.. As
~nges to be ~de m the numbering of the Distr icts. The accompanying
Distr
the
of
will be not~d, ~s change affects only 14
map graphically illustrates the re-alignment.

MAK E UP OF DIV ISIO NS AFT ER CHA
DIV ISIO N 1 (27) No Change
~

r

102 104
150 152

106
154

107
156

108
158

110
160

114
161

116
162

118
166

119
167

120
168

(26) -3 (226, 227, 228. All to Div. 4)
215 216 217 218 219 220
204 206 208 210 211 212 214
242 244 246 247 248 250
222 224 234 236 238 239 240
4 and 506 508 from Div 5)
DIV ISIO N 3 (31) +4 (420, 421 from Div. 338 340 342
337
344 64
322 324 328 330 332 333 334
384 385 388 390 392
382
378
376
374
372
370
368
365
394 420 421 506 508
from Div. 2) and -2 (420,
DIV ISIO N 4 (20) +3 (226, 227, 228
and 421 to Div. 3)
411 412 414 416 418 422
226 227 228 402 404 406 410
424 426 427 428 430 431 432
and -8 (506, 508 to Div. 3
DIV ISIO N 5 (41) +1 (618 from Div. 6)
all to Div. 6.)
596
and 578, 584, 586, 588, 594,
522 524 526 528 530
520
518
500 502 504 510 512 516
548 550 552 554 556
532 534 536 538 540 542 544 546
574 576 580 582 590
558 560 562 564 566 568 570 572
592 618
594 and 596 all from Div. 5)
DIV ISIO N 6 (38) +6 (578, 584, 586, 588,
and -1 (618 to Div. 5)
596 601 602 603 605 606 607 608
594
588
586
578 584
624 625 626 628 629
609 610 612 614 616 620 621 622 640 642 644 646
639
638
637
630 632 634 635 636
DIV ISIO N 2

3

REAL IGNM ENT OF DIVIS IONS

.

100 101
146 148
169

NGE

f

DIST RICT S
PRO POS ED NUM ERIC AL CHANGES TO
DIV ISIO N NO. 4 (3)
DIV ISIO N NO. 3 (4)
New No.
New No.
Old No.
Old No.

506
508
420
421

306
308
320
321

226
227
228

436
437
438

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

44

DIVISION NO. 5 (1)
Old No.
New No.
618

594

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DIVISION NO. 6 (6)
Old No.
New No.
578
584
586
588
594
596

678
684
686
688
694
696

cru~c11TI.•

45

Such approval is on file in the Grand Secretary's Office.
The effective date was selected to avoid disturbance of programs already
set, possible confusion in Roster changes, and to afford an opportunity for
advance planning for the next succeeding Masonic year.
This action by the Grand Master is reported for information only, and requires no action by Grand Lodge.
The requisite authority of the Grand Master is found in Sections 158 and
160 of the California Masonic Code.
DEDICATION OF MASONIC HALLS

For some unexplained reason, there is a notation in the Book of Ceremonies
that the dedication of Masonic Halls is a tiled ceremony. I have found no
legislation nor action by Grand Lodge imposing this restriction.
The Ceremony is one which illustrates certain principles of Masonry without revealing any of its secrets. The entire Ceremony is printed. It is a sequel
to the Cornerstone Ceremony which is open to the public.
I inquired of the Grand Lecturer if there was any reason why the public
should not witness the Ceremony, and his reply was that there was no reason
to bar the public.
It was my opinion that the image of Masonry would be enhanced by
making this Dedication Ceremony open to non-Masons. Also relevant are the
facts that the wives and families of Masons frequently contribute services and
gifts in the erection and furnishing of a Temple, and consequently bold a personal interest in it. The Order of Eastern Star and the Youth Organizations
frequently bold their meetings in the Temple.
After Grand Lodge is opened, it can be called off for the purpose of dedication the same as calling off for a cornerstone laying, and the public may then
be invited into the Lodge Room.
Upon consultation with the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens, and with the Ritual Committee, I found them to be in unanimous accord with the proposal. I therefore declared that the Ceremony of Dedication may be open to the public.
We have followed this practice on most occasions since the decision was
announced. Without exception, the reaction of both Masons and non-Masons
has been very favorable, and attendance has been excellent.
This practice involves no change in the Ritual. Since no legislation is required, I recommend the adoption by Grand Lodge of this procedure as a
matter of policy.
The Assistant Grand Lecturers have all concurred with the Grand Lecturer
in the expediency of the proposed changes.
Your Grand Master, upon being fully informed of th~ proposal, :ind upon
ultation with the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and Jumor Grand
~=dens finding them to be unanimously in accord, has app~oved the changes
recommended by the Ritual Committee, to become effective on Thursday,
October 14, 1971.

ANN!vERsARY CERTIFICATES FOR LODGES

As the constituent Lodges of this Grand Jurisdiction attain their half
century, seventy-five years, and centennial anniversaries, many of them take
pleasure and pride in arranging special observances.
In attending these, I have noted the absence of any recognition by Grand
Lodge in tangible form which the Lodges might display, and the presentation
of which by the Grand Master or his representative could add significance to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

46

47

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I compliment the Grand Lecturer, and those who assisted him, in the
the event. Even if no celebration is held, the Lodges might appreciate such
.
recognition.
Toward this purpose, I recommend that the incoming Grand Master appomt
a special committee to design, or have designed, suitable certificates or sc.rolls
commemorating the fiftieth, the seventy-fifth and the one hundredth anruversaries of Lodges; that upon approval of the designs by the Grand Master, they
be produced, properly inscribed, and presented to Lodges on, or ~ear, the respective anniversary dates, as they occur, and that one such certificate representing the last of such anniversaries enjoyed by a Lodge, be presented to the
Lodges whose anniversaries have passed without such recognition.

75 YEAR PINS
The ceremony of presenting veteran buttons to brethren wh~se me!°bership spans half a century is not readily adaptable nor fully meaningful m the
recognition of those who have been Masons for seventy-five years. We have
provided buttons for the latter, but the ceremony of presentati~n is improvised
by the Brother making it. In my opinion we should have a umform ceremony
for the presentation of the veteran buttons for the 75 year Masons.
Therefore I recommend that the Ritual Committee compose such a ceremony· that it be used during the year upon appropriate occasions, and that it
be submitted to Grand Lodge at the 1972 Annual Communication for consideration and action looking toward adoption.
MORTGAGE BURNING CEREMONY

It is gratifying to note that retirement of mortgages on Masonic Temples
has occasioned increasingly frequent requests for the performance by the
Grand Master and Grand Officers of Mortgage Burning Ceremonies. Such
is an occasion of joy and thanksgiving.
Prior to this year we have not had an official ceremony for this purpose,
and until recently the Grand Officers have assembled at the Temple involved
and performed an impromptu ceremony.
Seeing the need and desirability of a uniform presentation for the intended purpose, the Grand Lecturer, Very Worshipful H. Douglas Lemons,
prepared a ceremony which is appropriate and meaningful. ~r~t and
appreciation for the basic text which the Grand Lecturer utilized and
modified is extended to Ralph H. Head, P .M. and former Grand Orator who
authored the ceremony performed in burning the mortgage on the California
Masonic Memorial Temple. The ceremony prepared by the Grand Lecturer
has the full approval of the Assistant Grand Lecturers. It has the approval
and the commendation of your Grand Master.
There being no prohibition to prevent, we have used it on several occasions with sincere approbation by the brethren whose Temple has been freed
of incumbrance.
A copy of this ceremony is printed below.

task of adopting this addition to our ceremonial observances.
I recommend that the Mortgage Burning Ceremony, as set forth in the
Appendix, be adopted by this Grand Lodge as the ceremony to be used on
all occasions to which it applies.

MORTGAGE BURNING CEREMONY
This ceremony is open to all Masons, their families, friends and other
interested persons.
The Lodge should be open in the Masters Degree and called from
labor to refreshment for the purpose of conducting the Mortgage Burning
Ceremony.
The Lodge room is prepared by placing a small table midway between
the altar and the east upon which should be placed a burning crucible in
the center, three small vials of burning fluid, one on north side of table,
one on south side and the other on the west side. A candle in a candlestick
holder should be placed on the east side of table.
The officers of the Lodge are seated in the first row of seats on the
northeast of the Lodge in rank, the Master nearest the east. They wear the
jewels and aprons of their stations.
If the Grand Master fills all the stations and places, the Grand Officers
form outside the Lodge room and enter in the same manner as they enter
for a Grand Lodge opening; regalia is worn. The Master of the Lodge will
raise those present by three raps of the gavel as the Grand Officers enter
the Lodge room, then retire to his position in the northeast.
When all the Grand Officers are in their stations, the Grand Master will
ask all present to join him in the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag, after
which he will seat the lodge.

Master: Most Worshipful: Since the date of its completion, the Brethren
of .................. Lodge No.•... have been privileged to
assemble and conduct the business of Masonry within the peaceful walls of this temple.
As is the case in many worthy undertakings, the establishment
of this edifice was assured with the funds of the Brethren,
and assisted by additional finances obtained through the mortgage of this building.
Through the dedicated efforts of all the members of ......... .
....•......•.... Lodge No ..... , that mortgage has now been
punctually and honorably retired.

48

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

In behalf of my Brethren, I now respectfully request that you
do proceed with the ceremony of burning the mortgage of
....... ....... ....... ... Temple.
Grand Master: From the beginning of time men have been builders. The
earliest man first lived in natural caves but eventually he built
his own dwelling of stones, of hide, of twigs, and branches.
Through the centuries man became more adept and experienced.
His buildings grew in height and stability and eventually in
beauty. As man became more civilized and began to reason, he
realized that there were forces and phenomena beyond his
comprehension and understanding.
It became his nature to fear that which he could not understand
and finally fear turned into a form of worship by which the
forces he experienced but did not understand would be appeased
and pleased. Sacrifices of food and other importa nt worldly
possessions were offered - first on altars in the open and then
enclosed in temples.
And so it is that over thousands of years man has constructed
temples and cathedrals, palaces and public buildings, and these
have taken major space in the history of art. Even from the
dawn of history the art of building has so consistently touched
and mingled with human life in the home - in the shop - in
the temple - that it has often become the best history and
commentary of the times.
Tonight, your Grand Master, together with the Grand Lodge
Officers, the Master, Wardens, Brethren and friends of •..•.•
• .. . . • . . . • • • • • . . Lodge No..... . , have met for the purpose
of celebrating the completion of a resolve which originated
..... years ago.
In ...... , the leaders of this lodge had a vision of a Masonic
Temple of great beauty - erected to God and dedicated to the
true purpose of Freemasonry.
That dream began to take form and substance in a site - in
sketches and then in working designs - in steel and concrete
- in stone and glass - in fine wood - and in skilled workmanship. Contributions made by the Brethre n of this Lodge
were converted into brick and mortar, and Lodge funds were
put to use as this structur e rose from the soil of the land.
Finally, certain lending institutions, as a great example of faith
in the promise and integrity of the members of this Lodge,
completed the financing of this Temple with the dollars of their
investors.

49

Now ....... ....... .... years after the dedication of a dream
accomplished, we meet to commemorate the fulfillment of a
pledge - a promise made earlier that the faith and confidence
represented by the extension of credit would be justified.
In accordance with the teachings of our institution, it is our
dutr before ente~ng upon any great or importa nt undertaking,
to mvoke the aid and blessing of God. We shall therefore
reverently unite with our Grand Chaplain in an address to ~
Throne of Grace.

*

*

*

Grand Chaplain: (Prayer)
Great Architect of The Universe, Supreme Grand Master! We
most reverently invoke Thy blessing on this memorable occasion.
We remember the vision of our Brethren who pledged their faith
and their integrity to the obligation which they assumed. Thou
hast said in Thy word, "The integrity of the upright shall
guide them."
Thou, 0 God, hast been their guide and today we honor those
men of integrity and we rejoice with all our Brethren in the
honorable fulfillment of the obligation they assumed. As the
physical evidence of this obligation is destroyed, may the
pledges of those who have guided and shown the way be
graciously remembered.
Continue to bless and prosper this Lodge in all its commendable
undertakings and to Thee we shall ascribe all the honor and
glory forever.

Amen.
Grand Master: Worshipful Master, we would be pleased if you would
read a summary of the events which have brought this Temple
through the stages of planning, building, completion, financing,
and to the fulfillment of the pledge to retire all debt.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Treasurer, you will provide the Grand
Marshal with evidence indicating that the debt impressed during
the bw1ding and erection of this Temple has been fully discharged.
Grand Treasur er: Most Worshipful, I have facsimile copies of notes of
indebtedness all recorded as paid in full.
Grand Master: Brother Grand Treasurer, you will deliver to the Grand
Marshal for deposit in the crucible evidence which represents
that all debt has been retired.

50

PROCE EDING S OF THE

(Grand Marshal delivers the document to crucible and returns
to station.)
uisites
Grand Master: Brother Deput y Grand Master, what are the prereq
e?
Templ
for the building of a
of a
Deput y Grand Master: Most Worshipful, before the cornerstone
which
plans
the
e
provid
must
ct
building can be laid, the archite
the Master Craftsman will use as his rule and guide. Before the
re,
architect can conceive the character and scope of the structu
desire,
the
nce
one man or a group of men must first experie
dream the dream, and then with enthusiasm and determination
devise the work to be done.
.
These were the prerequisites to the building of ...... ...... ..
iasm,
enthus
of
fuel
the
add
Temple, and I now symbolically
determination, and desire to the crucible.
its north
(A) Deput y Grand Master approaches crucible and stands on
e.
crucibl
the
in
ent
docum
side. He pours the contents of a vial on the
ingredients
Grand Master: Brother Senior Grand Warden, what are the
of a firm
ng
foundi
the
in
mortar
ve
adhesi
the
e
which becom
foundation, in the erection of strong and sturdy walls, and the
covering of the superstructure with a sound roof?
rise from
Senior Grand Warden: To stand firm and tall a building must
e conbecom
to
e
combin
rock
and
sand
t,
a proven base. Cemen
are
wood,
and
glass
um,
alumin
and
steel
brick,
and
crete. Stone
The
.
beauty
and
molded together to provide structure, utility,
n
ingredients which provide the instrumentality for the erectio
which
of
tion,
produc
and
ss
progre
of a building are development,
this fuel is emblematical.
pours con(B) Senior Grand Warden approaches crucible on west and
tents of vial on document in the crucible.
elements
Grand Master: Brother Junior Grand Warden, what are the
e?
Templ
ic
Mason
this
of
tion
comple
the
which signify
is the
Junior Grand Warden: "Grea t is the art of beginning, but greater
iasm
enthus
with
ed
conceiv
art of ending." After an idea has been
the
on
drawn
been
have
plans
the
and determination, after
apex
the
and
stone,
on
set
been
has
stone
after
trestle board,
of the Temple has reached toward the warm sunshine and the
cooling rains, only then comes the day of fruition. The dream
has become reality. The plan has been accomplished. The
sal
Temple is dedicated to Freemasonry, Virtue, and Univer
Benevolence.

51

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

To the fire of fullfillment I add symbolically, the fuel of accomplishment and dedication.
(C) Junior Grand Warden approaches crucible and stands

to south. He

pours the contents of vial on the document in the crucible.

the Grand
Grand Master: (Comes down from the east and joins with
Grand
The
east.
the
from
e
crucibl
the
ching
approa
in
Marshal
holding
Master
Marshal stands to the left and rear of the Grand
the lighted candle and tray.)
All of the performances of human art at which we look with
praise and wonder are the result of the resistless force of perseverence. By this virtue the quarry becomes a pyramid. The
first turn of a spade is overwhelmed by the final result, yet
each petty and seemingly insignificant operation incessantly
continued in due course of time surmounts the greatest difficul
ties.
Thus, through the continuing and determined efforts of the
Masons of California and Hawaii, the quarry has supplied the
demands created by the first turn of the spade.
Dreams and ideas have manifested themselves in development
and labor. Earth has produced stone and iron to which the
try
architect and builder applied the sciences of geometry, chemis
God
to
ted
dedica
arose,
e
Templ
ic
Mason
and physics. Thus this
and to the service of Freemasonry.
ty
The faith which the business community had in the integri
d.
justifie
been
now
has
Lodge
this
of
rs
membe
the
and honor of
men
good
The debt has been paid in full. The pledge of these
and dedicated Masons has been redeemed.
;
"We have fought the good fight; we have finished the course
we have kept the faith."
(Grand Marshal passes candle to Grand Master who lights the

fire.)

Music: "Bless this house."
(Officers return to Stations at end of music.)
Grand Master: The Grand Chaplain will now give the benedi
will conclude the ceremony.

ction which

the heaven
Grand Chaplain: May the blessing of Almighty God, who made
all and
us
with
be
,
therein
dwell
who
all
and the earth, and
Amen.
more.
forever
and
now
us,
with
remain

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CALIFORNIA MASONIC CODE

As it became apparent that the new California Masonic Code could not be
ready for use during the year, I directed the Grand Secretary to obtain an
interim supply of the present Code. This was decided after learning that the
type had been saved and the cost would be relatively nominal.
The Code Revision Committee has completed a proposed new Code in
draft form. For various reasons, its final review by the appropriate Committees
and Grand Officers has not been feasible. The Grand Secretary's office is now
in the process of duplicating sufficient copies for such purpose.
Informal discussions have developed the consensus that the desired review
will best be done by a conference of the elective Grand Officers and representatives of the Committees involved, with the Code Revision Committee of
sufficient duration to carefully scan the entire work, and, page by page app;ove
it for publication.
'
I therefore recommend:
1. That the Code Revision Committee be continued for the ensuing year.
2. That an emergent Resolution for action at the Annual Communication
be pre54:nted by the Committee on Jurisprudence in substance, following the
Resolution presented by Leo E. Anderson, as revised by the Committee on Jurisprudence, appearing in the Proceedings for 1970, pages 325-326, and adopted
by 5/6vote.
BLOOD BANK

At the 1970 Annual Communication, Grand Master MacPhee, in his Annual
Message, treated the subject of a blood bank for our entire Grand Jurisdiction,
and tendered the "recommendation that when the incoming Grand Master considered the proper organization is completed he be authorized to declare the
'Grand Jurisdictional Masonic Blood Bank for California and Hawaii' functioning and that the Lodges be advised of all necessary details." This recommendation was adopted. ( 1970 Proc. p. 59).
With attentive regard to this subject, your present Grand Master, as a
stop-gap measure, authorized the Boards of Relief which had been operating
Blood Bank to continue doing so in order that there be no cessation of this
imperative activity.
The question of administrative details was carefully explored, and advice
sought and obtained. Various complications appeared and upon consideration
of these and other factors, your Grand Master has been unable to consider that
the proper organization has been completed.
The final disposition of this matter also may be affected by the action to be
taken at the present Annual Communication with respect to the 1970 Resolution No. 32 relating to Boards of Relief and their authorized activities. A simple majority voted for amended Resolution No. 32 and an applicable paragraph of Resolution No. 33. Failing a 5/6 vote, the matter was held over until
the 1971 Annual Communication. (1970 Proc. pp. 316-322).

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

Whether Boards of Relief are continued, under whatever name, and the
operation of blood banks will be construed to be "proper Masonic activities"
(1970 Proc. p. 317) appears to present a possible conflict with the directive to
be exercised in the discretion of the Grand Master concerning a declaration that
a Grand Jurisdictional Blood Bank is functioning.
In my opinion this requires clarification. There should not be concurrently
in effect, Boards of Relief Blood Banks, and a Grand Jurisdictional Blood
Bank.
I recommend that the Committee on Jurisprudence and on Policy and
General Purposes interpret what appears to this Grand Master to be an inconsistency as set forth above or at least an uncertainty, and that a directive to
the incoming Grand Master be given upon consideration of such a report.
LEADERSHIP TRAINING FOR OFFICERS
AND MEMBERS

In his Message at the 1970 Annual Communication, Grand Master
MacPhee discussed this subject and reported that he had requested the Committee on Masonic Information and Responsibility to develop a program
which officers of our constituent Lodges might be invited to attend. He
further urged the Assistant Grand Lecturers and Inspectors to recommend
the course to the officers of the constituent Lodges.
At the date of that Message, no course had been selected and approved
for the program.
During the current year the Committee on Masonic Information and
Responsibility has submitted to me informational material on several such
courses.
For various reasons I have not approved the use of any of them. Those
offered by professional training organizations are expensive and time-consuming. Moreover, classes would have to be repeated in various geographical
areas, or an inordinate travel expense be incurred for the Lodge officers to
meet in a single location.
Further in my opinion, pending a clear demarcation of duties and responsibilities as between the Committee on Masonic Information and Responsibility on the one hand and the Ritual Committee and Inspectoral Corps
on the other, to eliminate all question of duplication, the implementation of
leadership training should be held in abeyance.
It is probable that we have in our own membership men qualified and
willing to offer instruction in leadership as a Masonic contribution. In order
to secure good attendance there should be a compromise between a full
fledged "corporation executive" training course and haphazard nonstandardized lectures.
It is my opinion that a search should be made for qualified brethren who
possess, or will prepare a leadership training program, and make it available
at a nominal cost, or possibly as a Masonic labor.

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I leave this subject in the hands of the incoming Grand Master for such
assignment as in his discretion he deems appropriate.

The information upon which I acted, supported by documentary proof,
may be summarized as follows:
The Master whom I suspended, as an authorized cosigner of checks
drawn on DeMolay bank accounts, signed checks beginning in 1957 and
continuing through the years to a date as late as October 2, 1967, payable
to an individual (since deceased) who was then Executive Officer of DeMolay,
Southern Jurisdiction of California. The proceeds of these checks from time
to time were used by said individual for the purchase of automobiles and
other personal purposes, and the brother whom I suspended was aware that
said individual was using this money for his personal benefit. I have seen
the cancelled checks, the total of which amounted to many thousands of
dollars.
Additionally, the brother whom I suspended was in posession of a box
of cash derived from various DeMolay sources amounting to approximately
$31,000. When first interrogated about this subject he denied knowledge of
this money, but subsequently did produce it. Further, this brother co-signed
a check drawn upon a DeMolay bank account in the sum of $2,000 purporting to be a "loan" to a third person. The "loan" has not been repaid, and the
whereabouts of the third person is unknown.
The foregoing are some of the reasons for my action. At the suspended
Master's request for a conference, I met with him and his attorney, at the
office and in the presence of Past Grand Master Leo E. Anderson. During
our discussion, I showed the suspended Master and his attorney photo prints
of the cancelled checks. He admitted he bad signed them, and also admitted
that be knew the proceeds had been used by the then Executive Officer of
DeMolay for the purchase of automobiles and other personal purposes. I
asked him why he did this and his reply in substance was that he wanted
to help the Executive Officer rehabilitate himself financially.
Thereafter, charges were preferred against the suspended Master and a
trial was held. I was astounded when I learned that a majority of the Trial
Commissioners had voted for acquittal.
The Grand Lodge of California proclaims its interest in DeMolay and
authorizes sponsorship of that Order. The members of DeMolay are encouraged to look upon Masons as honorable and trustworthy men. If they
cannot, our objective has suffered immeasurably.
Information relative to the suspended Master's dereliction has reached
members of DeMolay, and is known to DeMolay executives.
Your Grand Master is of the opinion that any Master Mason who knowingly participates in the diversion of funds belonging to the Order of
DeMolay or any of its entities for the personal use of any person, commits
a breach of trust and is guilty of a Masonic offense.
I therefore refer this matter to the Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy
and General Purposes, and Grievances for its review and recommendation
to Grand Lodge.

ARREST OF CHARTER

On May 5, 1971 I arrested the Charter of Mojave Lodge No. 783. The
Lodge was advised of this action by James E. Bacon, Inspector of the S04th
Masonic District, in accordance with my direction.
Circumstances dictating this measure were as follows: In February of this
year the Junior Warden moved away from California leaving the office vacant.
In April the Master resigned. No steps were taken to fill these offices. The Inspector found no member of the Lodge, except possibly Past Masters, qualified
to properly conduct the affairs of the Lodge. He reported an attitude of disharmony and apathy among the Past Masters, Officers and members, as well as
a past history of a belligerent, non-cooperative attitude evidenced by lack of
proper attendance at District Schools of Instruction.
The Secretary of the Lodge, Ray E. Moore, P.M., wrote an explanatory
letter to the members of the Lodge under date of May 10, 1971, urging cooperation of all the members. He is to be commended for that.
In response to a letter of inquiry which he wrote to me, I replied under
date of June 17, 1971, a pertinent paragraph of which I next quote: "I am
hopeful that officers will be found and qualified, and that they will be fully
cooperative in all matters, including attendance at the Inspector's Schools of
Instruction. I admire your statement that 'We in Mojave are proud of our
Lodge and our Masonry.' I hope that sentiment will pervade throughout the
membership. If it does, the Lodge should be able to place itself in condition
for restoration."
I am currently advised that good progress has been made in the desired
direction, and that interested members have been working toward qualification
as officers.
The Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 5, George W. Perkins, informs
me they are not yet sufficiently proficient to be qualified, but he is hopeful
that they can be prior to the normal date for the next annual election of
officers.
I therefore recommend that the Charter of Mojave Lodge No. 783 remain
in arrest until the Grand Master who succeeds me is satisfied that a line of
officers are qualified for certification, and that thereupon the Charter be
restored to the Lodge.

SUSPENSION OF MASTER - FRANK S. LAND LoooE No. 819
Because of what I considered to be a breach of trust in the handling of
DeMolay funds, and his concealment of relevant facts concerning the same,
all constituting Masonic offenses, I suspended the Master of Frank S. Land
Lodge No. 819, effective December 8, 1970, and directed that he not be
accorded the designation of Past Master.

55

56

57

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I also recommend that the suspension be approved, and that it be made
permanent.

I construe it to be the intent of this Grand Lodge at its 1970 Communication to require Boards of Relief to assume their responsibility through
their own operating budgets for their own expenses. There appears to be
no good reason to make an exception in the case of Workmen's Compensation insurance, Medical Insurance Premiums, or other expense items. In the
interest of consistency:
I recommend that any expense charged to or paid by the Grand Lodge
on behalf of Boards of Relief be charged to the Board of Relief in whose
behalf said expense was incurred, including but not limited to Workmen's
Compensation Insurance and Medical Insurance premiums for employees of
Boards of Relief.

SusPENSION OF MAsTER -

MACCABEE LoooE No. 823

On August 11, 1971 I suspended the Master of Maccabee Lodge No.
823. The information on which I acted, provided reasons as follows:
Failure to demonstrate the proficiency in the ritualistic work required
of the Master of the Lodge; neglect or refusal to conduct meetings in
accordance with the prescribed agenda; arrogance and discourtesy toward
some of the brethren.
Various qualified brethren offered their assistance to him, and this was
not productive of improvement. His conduct brought disharmony in the
Lodge. He was requested to resign, and at one time he agreed to resign
if three Past Masters of his own choosing combined in such a request. He
was so requested, but, asserting that his own terms were not met, he declined
to carry out the agreement.
The disharmony in the Lodge due to his commissions, omissions, and
deficiencies prevailed for a number of months. Correction did not occur, and
nothing has been presented to support a belief that his reinstatement would
benefit the Lodge. Therefore, I recommend that the suspension be made
permanent.
EXPENSES OF BOAlIDS OF RELIEF
At its 1970 Annual Communication this Grand Lodge adopted a recommendation presented to it by the Committee on Retirement Plan
requiring that each of the component entities (of this Grand Lodge), members of the Masonic Homes of California Retirement Plan, be required to
assume their full responsibility under the Plan by being obligated to pay its
fair share of employer's premium required for participating employees of
the several component entities. By this action, this Grand Lodge determined
that Boards of Relief would be required to assume their share of the employer's premium for the retirement plan for their employees included in
the plan. (1970 Proc. pp. 226-228).
In making this recommendation to the Grand Lodge the Committee on
Retirement Plan set forth the following reasons:
a. "Each of these entities (of the Grand Lodge, including Boards of
Relief) operate on their own budgets."
b. "It seems unfair to require non-member Lodges of said Boards of
Relief to indirectly support Boards of Relief activities without obtaining
benefits from the same."
In reviewing the expenses of the Grand Lodge I find that the Grand
Lodge is paying the Medical Insurance and Workmen's Compensation premiums for employees of Boards of Relief. These costs are paid for from the
per capita tax levied on all Lodges whether or not they are member Lodges
of Boards of Relief.

ENDOWMENT BOARD EXPENSES CosT OF CoLLEcnoN OF HoMES ENDOWMENT FuNn
This Homes Endowment Board is charged with the responsibility of publicizing, promoting, and encouraging contributions to the Endowment Fund.
Income from the latter is applied toward maintenance and operation of the
Masonic Homes. The Board necessarily incurs substantial expense in printing
and mailing literature, correspondence, meetings and travel.
The proper source of funds required for the activities of this Homes
Endowment Board has been the subject of shifting and uncertain policy. Experience has shown that although the amounts spent annually are substantial,
the results have been highly satisfactory.
Annual budgets for the Board have ranged from $6,800.00 in 1950 to
$19,000.00 in 1970. Total contributions received in the 1970-71 period
amounted to approximately $936,000.00, the highest in our history. Actual
expenditures ($15,873.00 spent for 1970-71) were less than 2% of collections.
However, the $19,000 budget is a substantial item as related to the Grand
Lodge budget, and there have been differences of opinion as to whether this
item should be included in the per capita, paid from the income of the Homes
'
or recovered from the contributions as an expense of collection.
Legislation enacted in 1932 provided that no part of the Endowment Fund
either principal or interest, shall ever be used for any purpose other than th~
maintenance and operation of the Masonic Homes of California· also that
actual expenses incurred by members of the Board in the perf~rmance of
their duties be allowed and paid from the General Funds of the Grand Lodge
(1932 Proceedings, page 344). During that year an appropriation of $5,000.00
for the Endowment Board was included in the budget adopted by Grand
lodge (1932 Proceedings, page 354).
In 1947, Grand Master Moore rendered a decision in compliance with a
ltglllation of the United States Treasury Department, that the Grand Lodge
of California - not the Masonic Homes of California - is the owner of the
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. In reaching that decision, Brother Moore
set forth a studied historical review of the subject ( 194 7 Proceedings, pages

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31-34). Grand Lodge approved his decision (1947 Proceedings, page 258).
This policy decision was reversed in 1953, in part because of questions
arising under the Inheritance Tax Laws. Legislation was adopted declaring
the legal title of the Endowment Fund to be vested in the Masonic Homes of
California, a corporation (Resolutions 1953 Proceedings, pages 26-27);
Report of Policy Committee (page 258); Report of Jurisprudence Committee
and adoption of legislation (page 294). That is the way ownership stands
today.
In my opinion the aforementioned transfer of ownership had the effect
of reopening the question as to the source of funds for expenses of the Endowment Board.
C.M.C. Section 247 provides that no part of the principal of the Endowment Fund shall ever be expended for any purpose, and the income therefrom shall be used only for the maintenance and operation of the Masonic
Homes.
Up to 1957 Grand Lodge sustained the cost of the Board's operations
without reimbursement.
In 1957 the Report of the Finance Committee, under the chairmanship
of the late Frank Harwell, Jr., P.G.M., introduced the proposition that because
the Masonic Homes corporation was sole beneficiary of the Fund it appeared
logical that the expenses of the Endowment Board should be defrayed by the
Homes.
In accordance with this policy, the Finance Committee in 1957 included
in budgeted appropriations the sum of $12,000.00 for expenses of the Endowment Board and an equal amount in estimated income as refund from the
Masonic Homes for this purpose. As thus presented the budget was adopted by
Grand Lodge ( 1957 Proceedings, page5 358-366).
This practice continued through 1968.
At the 1968 Annual Communication an appropriation of $12,500.00 was
included in the budget, offset by the same amount to be reimbursed by the
Masonic Homes ( 1968 Proceedings, pages 293-294).
However, the Finance Committee under the chairmanship of Guy B. Mize,
P.G.M., in its 1968 Report, concurred in a recommendation by the Endowment Board that in future years the expenses should be borne by the Grand
Lodge (1968 Proceedings, pages 291-292). This concurrence did not constitute legislation by Grand Lodge. The recommendation of the Endowment
Board was carried out in 1969, the Finance Committee omitting the reimbursement from the Homes (1969 Proceedings, page 316).
Nevertheless, the Finance Committee was not satisfied that this practice
was sound, and in 1970, although it omitted the reimbursement, it commented
in its Report, presented by John A. Sickenberger, Chairman (1970 Proceedings pages 331-332) as follows:
"Our review of the Report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes
again prompts high praise and commendation to the Trustees and staff

for the efficient operation of our two Homes. We are happy to concur
in their recommendation that the present $1 per capita be continued.
At our 1968 Communication, as requested by the Homes Board of
Trustees, the Committee on Finance concurred in a recommendation
that the expenses of the Endowment Board and the usual expense
of bus transportation and lunches for the annual Wednesday trip to
Union City become a Grand Lodge expense and therefore included
in the per capita tax. Prior to that time, these items of expense had
been borne by the Homes through reimbursement to Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Finance is definitely of the opinion that such
expenses should not be an item of cost to constituent Lodges but
should be absorbed by the Masonic Homes as such expenditures are
productive of contributions by Masons to the Endowment Board which
produces income to cover the expense of operation of our Homes. We
accordingly recommend that the action taken at our 1968 Communication be reconsidered by the Grand Master in due course."

58

59

I find no legislation or action by Grand Lodge since 1932 affirmatively
defining a policy as to which entity should ultimately bear these expenses,
namely those incurred by the Endowment Board and the usual expense of bus
transportation and lunches for the annual Wednesday trip to Union City. In
1932 the Fund presumably was owned by Grand Lodge. Since 1953 the ownership thereof has been vested in the Masonic Homes. Allocation of the foregoing expenses has been in a state of flux and historical review does not provide
anything more than changing, in fact alternating, precedents.
Bearing in mind that the Homes corporation owns the Fund and is the
sole beneficiary of the income therefrom; that the expenses of the Board and
the annual trip to the Home at Union City are natural and essential incidents
to the growth of the Fund; and that these costs represent an insignificant percentage of the contributions which are obtained, I am in accord with the
opinion held by the 1970 Finance Committee.
I have therefore directed the Finance Committee, in presenting its budget
1971 Annual Communication, to offset appropriations for the Endowthe
at
ment Board and the expense related to the visitation to Union City by reimbursement by the Masonic Homes corporation.
This will realign the factors in their proper relationship.
The membership is already contributing by a portion of its per capita to
supplement the income needed for maintenance and operation of the Homes.
There is no justification to increase that per capita in order to pay the cost
of obtaining additional contributions for the Endowment Fund.
I therefore recommend: 1. That my directive to the Finance Committee
be approved. 2. That Grand Lodge by affirmative expression adopt the policy
of appropriating funds for the expenses of the Endowment Board and for the
annual visitation to the Home at Union City only on condition that reimbursement to Grand Lodge be made by the Homes corporation.

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
Assets of the Foundation, among others, include proceeds from the sale of
the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley and ownership of the Masonic Clubhouse
at U.CL.A.. Efforts to dispose of the latter have been and are under way.
Meanwhile, the expenses of maintaining the clubhouse, though unoccupied,
continue. Real . property taxes, utilities, and custodial cost amounted to
$14,679.31 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1970. Grand Lodge advanced
the funds for this purpose. The Board of Trustees of the Foundation authorized reimbursement to Grand Lodge, which was made.
The expenses for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971 amounted to approximately $16,165.26. In the absence of the President and in line with
the policy established last year the Accounting Office was authorized to
reimburse Grand Lodge in this amount, which was done.
As advised to date the Board of Trustees of the Foundation has taken
no action to ratify this reimbursement. Moreover, scholarships have been
granted and funds for the same disbursed in excess of monies available from
earnings.
Obviously a solution should be manifest when the U.C.L.A. Clubhouse is
disposed of. Meanwhile, I am of the strong conviction that the Foundation
should live within its own financial ability. If this means drawing from capital,
it may be unfortunate, but it is conceivable that under the Federal Tax Laws
such practice might even become essential.
Irrespective of any legal requirements under the tax laws, the principle
involved is the same, namely, the Foundation should be self sustaining.
If the Board of Trustees holds to a different view, Grand Lodge nevertheless, if in accord with the principle stated, can refuse to make any further advance of funds; in which case the Foundation can look to its own resources.
I am aware of Resolution No. 29 presented by Brother Frederick Bolte,
P.M., proposing that Grand Lodge contribute $50,000.00 annually to the
Foundation. Brother Bolte asserts that this was the policy set by Grand Lodge
when the Foundation was created, and should be re-affirmed.
What actually occurred was this - The Report of Special Committee on
Programs For Students made at the 1967 Annual Communication contained,
among other topics, the following recommendation:
"4. That the annual appropriations formerly devoted to the clubhouses be
standardized at $50,000.00 and added to the educational foundation each year
as an appropriation from Grand Lodge." (1967 Proc. p. 159). The Report was
adopted, without reference to any specific provisions. At that time, of course,
the Foundation had not been created, the Clubhouses had not been sold, and
no $50,000.00 appropriation was included in the budget.
At the 1968 Annual Communication, Grand Lodge approved and authorized
the establishment of The California Masonic Foundation ( 1968 Proc. pp.
235-237). The resolution did not re-affirm the policy of an appropriation of
$50,000.00. It made no mention of same.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

61

The budget, as presented by the Committee on Finance, and adopted by
Grand Lodge, contained no $50,000.00 appropriation to The Foundation. (Use
of the clubhouses had been discontinued, and the one at Berkeley had been
sold.)
This action by Grand Lodge constituted revocation of the policy, if indeed
it had been made a policy in 1967, to make an annual $50,000.00 contribution
to the Foundation.
Brother Bolte's Resolution in effect simply reopens the subject of an annual
appropriation which would increase the per capita by approximately $~.21. I
do not regard this as justified, when the Foundation holds assets valued m the
general neighborhood of $1,000,000.00. Contributions should be made on a
voluntary basis.
·
In order to focus the questions for positive disposition, I recommend 1. That the Foundation be requested to take appropriate steps to ratify
reimbursement to Grand Lodge for funds advanced during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971.
·
2. That Grand Lodge make no further advance of funds for the use or
benefit of the Foundation unless the Foundation agrees to make reimbursement.
DECISIONS IN GENERAL
Numerous questions were propounded during the year calling for a ruling
by the Grand Master. Most of them could be answered by reference to the
California Masonic Code or recalling a precedent or tradition. It is not deemed
necessary to report them all.
A few of interest or requiring analysis and interpretation will be detailed
in succeeding sections.
DECISION -

ExPENSE REIMBURSEMENT

A question arose late in 1970 which may recur, and which can be put to
rest by a sitnple decision. The question is: When a Master and a Warden
from the same Lodge both attend the Annual Communication, the Master
serves on a Committee and his presence is required in committee sessions
during a substantial portion of the Grand Lodge Communication, and the
Warden is in regular attendance on behalf of the Lodge on the floor of the
Grand Lodge, what mileage payment or reimbursement for expenses is
authorized?
The answer is that the Officer or Elected Representative who is in attendance on the floor of Grand Lodge representing his Lodge is entitled to reimbursement for mileage under C.M.C. Sec. 17 4.
The other Officer who is in attendance as a Committeeman is entitled to
reimbursement for his necessary expenses in attending the Annual Communication as a Committeeman if his duties require his presence there. Such
reimbursement is made upon presentation and approval of a request for reimbursement, in compliance with C.M.C. Sec. 176 and Item H of the "Instructions and Regulations" pertaining to expense claims.

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DECISION - EXPENDITURE OF LoDGE FUNDS
FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS EVENTS
I was asked the following questions:
1. Is it a permissible expenditure of Lodge funds to give prizes in the
form of U.S. Government bonds to winners of essay contests during or related
to Public Schools Week? The essays are written on the Public Schools Week
Theme.
My answer was yes, providing the cost is available from, an? is paid out
of, the Lodge's Refreshment Fund, and the bonds are of nonunal amount.
Public Schools Week Observance is a program required by the Grand Lodge,
and encouragement to students to participate in the manner de~ned, is directly
related to the Observance. Requiring the funds to be provide_d out of ~e
Lodge Refreshment Fund is a desirable limitation, to automati~ally rest~1ct
the expenditures so they do not interfere with the normal costs m operating
the Lodge.
2. Is it proper expenditure of Lodge funds to make .a contribution of
cash to the library of a school in the name of a c~ntest winner? My a~swer
was no, irrespective of use of a donor's name. It 1s not a necessary adjunct
of Public Schools Week Observance.
C.M.C. Annotation 409 m states that a Lodge cannot c;ont?bute its funds
to a non-Masonic charity. In that case, the proposed contribution was to The
Salvation Army.
C.M.C. Annotation 409 n states that a Lodge cannot contribute to a
"Chimes Fund" in memory of a departed brother. It is not stated what the
"chimes fund" was, but apparently it was an outside charity. Co!1trib~tions
to a Public School Library would fall in the same general classification of
non-Masonic enterprises.
3. Is it a proper expenditure of Lodge funds to award a cash scholarship
to a deserving student? The answer was no.
The 1967 Grand Lodge Proceedings, page 255 to 257, show that two
resolutions, one for Lodge scholarships and the other for Grand ~dge
scholarships were defeated by Grand Lodge. The reports of the Co1D1lllttee
on Policy a~d General Purposes recommended a "no" vote with the statement that this should be done because the Grand Master had recommended a
scholarship foundation. The recommendation of the Grand Master was
adopted, and the California Masonic Foundation is the result.
Annotation 412 y states that a scholarship program cannot be financed
from the refreshment fund of a Lodge.
Scholarship recommendations may be made to the California Masonic
Foundation. The only way Lodges would be able to set up or awar? scholarships would be by future action of Grand Lodge, upon presentation of an
appropriate resolution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DECISION -

63

VOTING BY THE TILER OF A LoDGE

The question of when and by what procedures the Tiler who is a member
of the Lodge can cast a ballot or vote has arisen on a number of occasions.
My considered decision, and the grounds supporting it are as follows:
If the Tiler is a member of the Lodge he has the privilege of debating
and voting on questions before the Lodge ( C.M.C. 3 23 ( c)) ; and every
member of a Lodge, when present, must vote upon a ballot for the degrees
or for affiliation (C.M.C. 534).
The Tiler is present at a Lodge meeting even though he is not in the
Lodge room but is at his post in the Tiler's room. (C.M.C. 320(d)). Consequently he must vote upon such a ballot last mentioned.
As to others than the Tiler, I construe the term "present" to mean actual
attendance in the Lodge room. The Tiler's room (C.M.C. 534(c)), or the
Lounge, or the cardroom, or dining room or kitchen are not part of the
Lodge room.
Moreover, if members have gone to such areas, the Master in his discretion may require them to return and participate in the ballot. ( C.M.C.
534(d)).
The Master should require the Tiler to come into the Lodge room and
participate in the ballot for an applicant; "and he should be relieved of
his duties for the purpose." (C.M.C. 323(c)).
Of course if a visiting brother is present, or even a member of the Lodge
who has not been present at the meeting, is willing, by arrangement in
advance, to relieve the Tiler, he can be in the Lodge room for the entire
balloting procedure.
The Grand Lecturer comments that this arrangement must be made
prior to the opening of Lodge or before the commencement of business. He
further states that this is the instruction which the Inspectors have been
told to give their District members, but almost invariably they are challenged
with the question: "What happens if there is no visitor, and none of the
members will volunteer to relieve the Tiler?"
In this case we turn to an alternative. Someone from the Lodge room
must be designated to perform this service. The proper time and procedure
is next discussed.
The fact that the Master should not permit any member to enter or
leave the Lodge rciom proper after announcing the report of the committee and
directing the ballot, and during the ballot (C.M.C. 534(a) and (c)) "unless
sickness or some other imperative reason should be pleaded" would appear
to have two primary purposes: First, to prevent a newly arrived brother to
ballot without being properly informed and, second, to prevent a brother
from escaping his obligation to ballot. I can see no other harm which would
result from his departure.
This brings me to the conclusion that there can be no valid reason to
prevent a brother, after he has cast his ballot, to go out and relieve the

64

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

Tiler. The circumstance demanding this procedure, in the light of the requirement and the Tiler vote, constitutes an "imperative reason."
This should be done by order of the Master, after all in the room have
cast their ballot. Upon entrance of the Tiler, the Master should repeat the
purpose of the ballot, and the announcement of the report. of the investigating
committee. Thereupon, the Tiler votes, and returns to his post. Re-entrance
of the brother who relieved him may be optional with him.
Similar procedure should be employed in inst~ces where th~ Tiler,
being a member of the Lodge, desires to vote on motions or resolutions.
DECISION -

EXPENDITUR E OF LoDGE FUNDS
FOR PAST MASTERS DINNER

I was requested for a ruling on the following question: Whether it is a
permissible expenditure of Lodge refreshment funds to provide dinner on Past
Master's Night to Past Masters and their wives wilh;out charge when all other
members and their wives will be charged for such dinner.
The answer as to Past Masters is Yes. This has become a custom in
various Lodges, and it falls within the definition of "promotion of fraternal
intercourse." (C.M.C. Sec. 412).
As to the wives of Past Masters the answer is No.
RELIEF FOR A PHYSICALLY OR MENTALLY

IMPAIRED ADULT CHILD OF A MASON
The Master and Wardens of Redondo Lodge No. 328 have presented a
problem and requested a decision concerning eligibility of a person for
relief.
The facts in brief are: The daughter now aged 56 years of a deceased
member in good standing of the Lodge has been ~eriously. defoi:m~ .sin<;e
birth, her physical impairments have increased dunng her ~1fe, disability is
such that she cannot possibly support herself. Her mother 1s long deceased
and she has no living relatives.
•
She lived with her father during his lifetime, and for a penod the
Masonic Homes of California granted outside relief to the brother in the
amount of $215.00 monthly.
Upon the recent demise of this brother, such relief was discontinued and
the daughter has received no relief from the M'.'5?nic Homes ~presuma~ly on
the premise that Section 601(i) C.M.C. prohibits the granting of relief to
an orphan over the age of 21).
.
The majority orphan's remaining financial resources probably will soon
be exhausted. Redondo Lodge has been contributing toward her support, and
is hopeful that the Masonic Homes will assume this responsibility.
Section 601 C.M.C. requires that a Lodge must relieve its own members,
their widows and orphans, when m
· distress. Annotati"on """
1 defi nes an
"orphan" to mean the son or daughter under the age of 21 years of a de-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

65

ceased Master Mason; and "no man or woman over 21 shall be entitled to
relief as a matter of right as the son or daughter of a Master Mason." This
is predicated on 1928 Proc. pp. 163, 245, and 263.
I hold that the words "matter of right" do not exclude the granting of
relief in the discretion of a Lodge if the circumstances justify.
Some support for this conclusion is Sound in statements of principle in
the 1928 Proceedings. Moreover, Annotation "h" of Section 601 states that
a Lodge may relieve a brother by extending relief to a helpless or incompetent son, sister or mother of a Mason if they are dependent on him and he
is unable to relieve them. A daughter obviously must be read into this.
It is unthinkable that relief should be cut off upon the demise of the
father. Such would be repugnant to the basic principles of Masonic relief.
I therefore expressly rule that a Lodge may in its discretion, provide
relief in exceptional circumstances to the adult child of a deceased Mason
where a need arises by reason of physical or mental impairment.
In my view the same principle should be applied to outside relief granted
by the Masonic Homes. The pertinent section contained in the C.M.C.
Appendix, pp. 369-370, provides that outside relief may be granted to "(b)
Those who are otherwise qualified but who are ineligible by reason of
disease or physical or mental infirmity."
This would appear to exclude any afflicted adult orphan because an
adult orphan is not listed in the "Rules Governing Admission," consequently is not "qualified." I consider this to be unduly restrictive. Moreover,
we are confronted by the limiting statement in Annotation "a" of Section
601 C.M.C.
I recommend that the Board of Trustees be requested to take appropriate steps to amend its requirements whereby outside relief may be granted
under the exceptional circumstances defined above authorizing a Lodge to
provide relief.
Further, I recommend that when such an amendment has been implemented, the Board review the file and history of the case in point, as it
may be updated by Redondo Lodge, and consider the subject of outside
relief for the adult daughter referred to.
STUDY oF PRIORITms

During each Masonic year and frequently at the Annual Communications
various programs or projects are suggested by letters or resolutions or actions
by Boards or Committees.
Examples by way of illustation, but not of limitation, are Masonic Homes
Redevelopment, addition of a Library and Museum to the Memorial Temple,
acquisition of ffistorical Sites, possible grants to the Youth Organizations.
These and others have been put forth and consideration solicited individually and without any general order of priority, some without a plan of
funding.

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Long range planning suggests that a careful and thorough survey should
be made and priorities allotted.
Therefore, I recommend that the incoming Grand Master appoint a
special committee for the Study of Priorities. This committee should invite,
from all other pertinent committees and boards, and from all interested
Lodges as well as individual brethren, suggestions for programs and projects,
evaluate their importance, study probable costs together with funds currently available or possible sources to provide the same. The committee should
report in detail its findings and recommendations, with particularity as to
priorities which should be accorded.
SUGGESTION OF FLOAT FOR ROSE PARADE
I have been informed that Virgil J. White, a Brother and President of the
Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association is willing to recommend the entry
of a Masonic Float in the January 1973 Parade; and he thinks we have an
excellent chance of being accepted.
This would afford an opportunity to boost Public Schools, DeMolay, Job's
Daughters and Rainbow for Girls all in conjunction with the Masons of
California and Hawaii. As we all know, television coverage of the parade is
viewed by millions.
A float of which we could be proud would cost, according to advice
received, about $25,000. This would not be an annual commitment, as we
would not be considered eligible again for perhaps ten years.
It is necessary for me to present this subject to Grand Lodge at this
Communication, because if we favor this our application should be made as
soon as possible. Announcement of float selections will be made about April
1972; and funds would have to be expended during 1972.
I conceive no legislation to be involved, and no advance Resolution to be
necessary. It would be covered by a direction of Grand Lodge to the Finance
Committee to include the necessary appropriation in the Budget. ·
In order to bring the subject before Grand Lodge for consideration I
recommend:
1. That the Finance Committee be directed to include an appropriation
of $25,000 in the Budget for the purpose specified.
2. That if such an appropriation be authorized, an application be
promptly made for permission to enter the float.
3. That if items 1 and 2 are authorized, the incoming Grand Master
appoint a Special Committee to collaborate with the Pasadena Tournament
of Roses Association, design a float, and attend to the details connected with
its appearance in the Parade.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

FEBRUARY 9TH EARTHQUAKE DAMAGE AND !TS EFFECTS ON TEMPLES
As most of the country now knows and the majority of Southern Californians will verify, the earthquake that rocked Southern California on the
morning of February 9, 1971 caused many deaths and extensive property
damage throughout the area. Fortunately, only two Masonic meeting places
were damaged seriously enough to deserve a description.
Although the epicenter has been described in relationship to Newhall, it
lies at a point some seven miles north and east of San Fernando, where the
greatest amount of damage was done. The damage in the Newhall area was
also extensive; however the absence of taller buildings and the lighter density
of population resulted in less total damage.
The meeting place of Old West Lodge No. 813, in Newhall, was the
Fellowship Hall of the Presbyterian Church on Newhall Avenue in the town
of Newhall. The damage to the building was sufficiently heavy to require the
city engineers to designate it unfit for occupancy. The primary damage was
separation of the exposed beam ceiling rafters at the apex of the roof, with
minor plaster separations. After searching diligently for another meeting
place, the Master of Old West Lodge, Worshipful Harold Kempel, was
prompted to request the Grand Master for a dispensation to meet in Granada
Hills Temple for a three month period. This being agreeable to Granada Hills
Lodge No. 790 the dispensation was granted. The Master of Granada Hills
Lodge, Worshipful "Whitey" Webster, and all of the Brethren of that Lodge,
extended full fraternal consideration. Their own meeting nights, as well as
all of the Masonically affiliated bodies that met in their Temple, were reduced
to a minimum to alleviate the emergency.
It is gratifying to report that the church was repaired and Old West
Lodge was able to return to its regular meeting place within the period of
the dispensation.
The San Fernando Masonic Temple sustained heavy damage from the
earthquake. To place things in the proper perspective, we are informed that
in a distance of approximately one half mile Maclay Street on which the
Temple is located is now one foot higher at Foothill Boulevard, tapering down
to Glenoaks Boulevard. The San Fernando Masonic Temple is on Maclay
between the two boulevards. We are further told that Hubbard Street, approximately one-half mile to the west, is now a full five feet higher than before
the earthquake. It is not difficult to understand, then, how the San Fernando
Temple sustained some thirty-five thousand dollars estimated damage.
The Master of San Fernando Lodge, Worshipful John Winslow, lives
between Hubbard Street (mentioned above) and two hospitals which were
destroyed. The damage to his home was moderate; however his wife suffered
a cut over her eye which required eight stitches to close.
The city engineers surveyed the damage to the Temple and placed a
notice of "unsafe for occupancy" on the door. The building is basically a brick

69

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

structure with steel girder reinforcements in the roof. The following briefly
describes the areas of damage:
Men's Lounge Two steel girders which support the ceiling joists were dislodged
from their supports on each side of the fireplace and had dropped down
approximately eight inches with corresponding warping of the balance of
the ceiling.
Main Dining Room Numerous large cracks in the plaster walls.
Main Kitchen Over half of the dishes were completely thrown out of the
cupboards and broken. Extensive cracked plaster.
Rest Room Facilities Numerous large cracks in the plaster walls.
Main Lobby A great many large cracks in the plaster with slight raising of
the concrete floor underneath the tile covering.
Main Lodge Room The south wall of the building was bowed out approximately twenty inches, tearing loose from the ceiling and dislodging two of the
ceiling steel truss assemblies from their pilasters. Daylight was projected
through to the Lodge Room floor. The remaining steel trusses were barely on
their pilasters, and with the cross bracing between them, succeeded in supporting the balance of the ceiling. Numerous fractures of plaster in the Lodge
Room.
Upstairs Dining Room One steel beam ceiling support had been dislodged
and dropped approximately six inches, creating an obvious bulge in the ceiling.
Extensive fractures in the plaster walls.
Upstairs Kitchen, Lobby and Rest Room Facilities Hundred s of cracks in
the plaster with numerous fractures.
Upstairs Lodge Room One main ceiling support girder had been dislodged
from its pilaster, jammed through the end of the brick building tearing a hole
in it, and came back into the Lodge Room, hanging some nine inches below
its resting point (a pilaster). The balance of the ceiling was warped downward to this point. There were many areas of cracked and fractured plaster.
The Building Association held an emergency meeting. Services of a professional structura l engineer were obtained. With the information he provided,
volunteers, mostly Past Masters and Officers of the Lodge, proceeded to tear
out carpeting, remove seats, cut huge holes in the floor in order 'to get to
ground level, and shore up the steel girders and brace the outside bowed wall
of the Main Lodge Room. If this had not been done, the largest aftershock
about a week later probably would have leveled the building.
Subsequently, permission was obtained from the city engineer to meet in
the dining room. A temporary Lodge Room was set up and properly secured
for tiling. Consequently, it was unnecessary to obtain a dispensation to meet
elsewhere. Subsequent events included requests to the Committee on Lodge
Financing for permission to restore the Temple and accomplishment of that
effort.
Aside from the financial liability imposed in restoring the Temple, the

Lodge also owned a piece of improved property on the Mall in downtown San

68

.Fernando. It had been the Lodge meeting place prior to the erection of the
Temple on. Maclay. The week before the earthqua ke negotiations were taking
place looking toward sale of the property. Counter offers were made and a
final answer was due on Friday, February 12th. The building was a total loss.
Since the ~ge had no resources for rebuilding for rental purposes, the
Corps of Engineers of the U.S. Army was authorized to tear down the reDl&ins and the property was sold at a net loss of approximately thirty-five
thousand dollars, when compared with its value a week before.
Notwithstanding the vicissitudes encountered the San Fernando Masonic
Temple has been completely restored. The Lodge held a buffet dinner and
dance at the Temple on July 24th in appreciation to the members and all
others ~ho participated in helping with the work. Structural work was
necessarily contracted o?t. Other work, such as painting and cleaning, was
done by m~bers an? friends. The numerous events which took place during
the restoration provide a story of true humanity. Such items as rugs and
draperies were cleaned at greatly reduced costs; donation of dishes came
from Ocean Park Lodge No. 369; the zeal of the ladies of the Eastern Star
was ~fested in actually contesting to see who would have the honor of
preparing meals for the weekend workmen. The window cleaning services
of the Youth Organizations and many others are noteworthy.
The devoti~n of Br~ther ~ebster, ~e ~aster of Granada Hills Lodge is
worthy of speaal. menti~n. His profession is that of a painting contractor.
He volunteered his services and obtained all of the paints for the Lodge
coordi~~ted the color schemes and spent many weekends at the Tempi~
'lft2pervismg the work and helping with the painting. Another member of
~ranad~ Hil~ Lodge, Wo~shipful Bob Lawson, a Past Master, volunteered
his services m the refurbishment and improvement of the public address
systems in the Lodge and dining rooms. The officers and members of San
Fernando Lodge took special note of these events at the July 24th dinner
dance.
~t o~ the disaster which struck much good has been derived. A closer
ftlationsh1p has developed between all of the Lodges and Masonically affiliate? organizations within the San Fernando area and renewed interest
and vigor on the part of many of the members.
This crucial experience brought forth Masonry at work.
PAUL A. PFLUEGE R

IN APPRECIA TION

One year a~o, during the Annual Election of Officers, Brother Paul A.
Pfl~eger made it known to Grand Lodge that it was his personal desire to be
responsibility of serving as the Grand Treasure r.
reli.eved from the
expressed such a feeling and it came as a surprise
he
time
first
This was the
to the members of Grand Lodge.

?eavy

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In 1948 Grand Lodge created the Office of Assistant Grand Treasurer.
At the request of Grand Treasurer Francis V. Keesling, Brother Paul was
appointed to the new office. He served in that capacity until his election as
Grand Treasurer in 1964. Although his decision to request retirement was
made as the result of deep personal reflection over a period of many months,
the sudden announcement made it impossible, at that time, to properly recognize his many contributions to this Grand Lodge.
I, therefore, requested the Grand Secretary to have prepared an appropriate resolution which was published on page 340 of the 1970 proceedings.
He was also directed to secure an appropriate plaque for presentation to
Brother Pflueger. It is my pleasure to make the presentation at this time
as a symbol of the respect and admiration for him held by Masons throughout this jurisdiction.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Your Grand Master is deeply indebted to all members of the Craft who
contributed their time and talents during the Masonic year about to close.
Because of our close association and joint execution of plans and programs,
I would especially pay tribute to:
Les McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, for his friendship, his levelling
advice, his devotion to the welfare of the Craft.
Bill Price, Senior Grand Warden, for his cheerful and laconic stability,
his knowledge of business administration and perfection in ritual.
Ray Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, for his keen perception, latent humor,
and impeccable Masonic conduct.
Chet MacPhee, Past Grand Master and Grand Treasurer, for his continuing generosity of time, business acumen and buoyancy.
Ed Siems, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary, for his constructive
assistance based on long experience and his unswerving fidelity to the trust
with which he is charged, and the entire office staff working under his supervision. The willingness, the friendliness, and the efficiency of all personnel
involved have lightened the tasks of the Grand Master, and assured our
membership of excellence in administration as performed by the Grand Secretary's office. To Ed's secretary Mrs. Gladys Wraith, for her constant
attention and cooperation. To Verne Hendrix, Assistant Grand Secretary, for
his forthright attitude and competent discharge of the myriad duties descending to his desk. And to Mrs. Helen Castellotti, your Grand Master's "Man
Friday" for her complete loyalty, knowledge of the whole Jurisdiction, and
constant help.
Doug Lemons, whose projection into the elective line as Grand Lecturer,
necessitated by the untimely death of Hal Richards, brought forth rapidly
the depth of Masonic knowledge he possesses, valiant strength of character
and ritualistic leadership.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

The Assistant Grand Lecturers, Bert VonKonsky (who served most of
the year~ and Burt Young who succeeded him, Ed Seagle, "Use" Patropulos,
Wally. Fiske, George Perkins and Ernie Newton for their studied and careful
attention not only to ritualistic matters but to the supervision of arrangements f~r a:remo.nies and receptions, and assistance in solving localized problems which invariably arise in a jurisdiction as large as ours.
.•The ~~ctors wh~ ha~e rendered loyal service in all these matters,
g1vmg wdbngly. of their time and talents, and voluntarily appearing at
numer?us functio~ where they were not obligated to appear, sometimes
travellmg great distances to be present. In the very few instances where
~eakness surfaced, replacements were made. No purpose is served by detail1~g these because other replacements occurred from well justified resignations of Inspectors who had long . rendered unimpeachable service. The
Inspectoral corps, as viewed now, is of the finest.
Roi.and Bach, Grand Chaplain, whose spiritual expressions in prayer
transrmt.ted calm strength to all who listened, and whose "humble" humor
merged mto the great moral truths he expounded in his messages.
Burt Meyer! Grand Orator who generously moved at my request from
the office of Assistant Grand Lecturer to his present appointment and whose
thoughtful messages patterned on patriotism and respect for law ~d authority
coupled with ~e obligations of Masonry have added much to our Grand
Lodge ceremomes.
~t Linsk for the unselfish application of his financial experience in dischargmg the duties of Assistant Grand Treasurer.
. D~Wald Baum, Grand Marshal for his subjugation of all personal objectives m order to support and perfect Grand Lodge ceremonial portrayal devotedly t? attend upon the Grand Master and voluntarily to perform ~um­
erous duties f~ exceeding tho~ normally expected of a Grand Marshal.
Tom .McKimson, Grand Tiier, who relinquished an Inspectorship to accept
the ap~mtment, ~d who has diligently performed the arduous tasks imposed
upon him and which pass largely unobserved.
John Bo~ersox who came in late during the year to assume the duties
of Grand Bible Bearer after the demise of our dearly beloved George
Cornwell; ~ob Marshal, Grand Standard Bearer, Ken Conklin, Grand Sword
Bearer, P~ Stone an.d Bob West, the Senior and Junior Grand Deacon team,
Harry Hirao~, Semor Grand Steward and Bill McKee the Junior from
across. ~e Paci.fie;. John Brown the tall Grand Pursuivant who researched
the o.ngm an~ d~ties. of his office, and Harold Mueller the Grand Organist
who is an artist m his profession.
The esprit de corps of these Brethren afforded immeasurable encouragement to the ~fforts of your Grand Master. No finer line of Grand Officers
ever served with a Grand Master. I will be forever grateful.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Printed below are reports by committees to which they were referred by
the Committee on Distribution on the Grand Master's Decisions and Recommendations and

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
PUBLICATION OF A SINGLE VoLUME OF GRAND LODGE HISTORY
RECOMMENDATION No.

1 (pg. 32)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We heartily approve of this proposal and urge its implementation. We do
so with the impression and the hope that the volume will be well done and of
a quality which will bring credit to the Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic History:
The Grand Master's Recommendation No. 1, calling for the writing and
publishing of a single volume history of California Masonry in popular reading
style is highly recommended by your Committee.
The Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic History has a large file of data
already on hand. We are also in the process of preparing a questionnaire to
go out to the various Lodges to supplement the information we already have.
We believe a good readable history will further illuminate the brethren as
well as the general public to the background and ideals of the Craft. A general
knowledge of the men who have guided our Fraternity throughout our history
are the same men who have guided the destiny of our beautiful Golden State,
bringing this into public view cannot help but enhance our image.
We, therefore, urge a "YES" vote to this recommendation.
Adopted.
PROPOSED GRAND LoDGE OF HAw AII
RECOMMENDATION No. 2 (pg. 37)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We believe that the Grand Master has discharged his duties and responsibilities relating to this matter in a most commendable manner and one that
is in keeping with both the general policies of this Grand Lodge and the high
purp0ses of the institution of Freemasonry.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
There was referred to the Jurisprudence Committee for review the edict
of the Grand Master and the guidelines on which it was based regarding the
attempted formation of a Grand Lodge of Hawaii.
The issuance of an edict is an exercise of executive power. Under Section
16 C.M.C. the Grand Lodge of California has "all the executive powers of
sovereignty" and Section 50 C.M.C. provides that between Annual Communications the Grand Master may exercise all the executive powers of Grand
Lodge except the granting of charters.
In issuing the edict, therefore, the Grand Master acted within the scope
of his authority.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

73

In order to put the edict and advisory guidelines in proper perspective a
brief review of the law governing formation of new Grand Lodges is advisable.
Among Grand Lodges in the United States it is universally recognized as
the law of Masonry that whenever there are three Chartered Lodges in any
state or territory in which no Grand Lodge is established those Lodges have
the absolute right to meet in convention and organize a Grand Lodge for such
state or territory.
The Grand Lodge of California has acknowledged and subscribed to this
law since 1875.
While procedures are not specified under this rule, it does contemplate that
the participating Lodges meet in convention to form a new Grand Lodge.
The steps taken by several of the Lodges in Hawaii to act through Commissioners appears not to be in accordance with such procedure.
It is the opinion of the Jurisprudence Committee that the Grand Master
acted within the scope of his executive powers with regard to Paragraph A
of the edict, which reads as follows:
"A. That no further action be taken by any Lodge in Hawaii or by any
officer or member thereof or by any commission representing a Lodge
having as its objective the formation of a Grand Lodge of Hawaii, except
for submission to its entire membership of an opportunity to give written
assent or dissent to the proposal."

Paragraph B. of the edict presents a more difficult question. It reads as
follows:
"B. That no Mason, a member in another jurisdiction and not a member
of a California or Hawaiian Lodge, shall participate in the movement for
a Grand Lodge of Hawaii or interfere or intervene in the affairs of a
Lodge in Hawaii."
Sojourning Masons who are members of Lodges of a foreign jurisdiction
are subject to the Masonic law of the Grand Lodge of California while residing within our territorial jurisdiction. While they may visit our Lodges, the
right of visitation does not include any right to participate in the business
of the Lodge.
The Grand Master had the power, therefore, to forbid any such sojourner
to "interfere or intervene in the affairs of a Lodge in Hawaii."
We are, however, of the opinion that that portion of Paragraph B which
requires that no such sojourner "shall participate in the movement for a Grand
Lodge of Hawaii," since it pertains to his activities outside as well as inside
a Lodge, would preclude him from even engaging in conversations with his
Brethren on the subject, and is overly restrictive.
It is evident from the Grand Master's Message that the intent of the edict
and guidelines is not to infringe upon any legal right of our Lodges in Hawaii
to form a Grand Lodge, but rather to assure that the formation of such a
Grand Lodge is in fact the will of the members of the Lodges involved, and
also to assure that such Grand Lodge when established will receive favorable
consideration of its request for recognition by this Grand Lodge.

74

75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

upon
Viewed in this light, neither the edict nor the guidelines infringe
.
Hawaii
in
Lodges
any legal right of the
of this
Any policy questions involved do not fall within the province
Committee.
Adopted.

on
Such a Ceremony was prepare d, and was used by the Gr8:nd ~aster
the
of
n
directio
the
at
Warden
Grand
Senior
the
by
once
two occasions and
.
Grand Master.
d use,
entione
aforem
the
through
This Ceremony fills a definite need, and
~
.should
it
feel
we
where
point
a
to
d
it has been corrected and modifie
baSis
l
optiona
an
on
used
be
to
Lodge,
Grand
this
of
ny
adopted as a Ceremo
at the request of a Lodge.
We therefore recommend the adoption of Recommendation No. 6.
Adopted.

DEnrcA noN OF MASON IC H.u.r.s
RECOMMENDATION No. 3 (pg. 45)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
did
Although not assigned to this Committee for report, the Grand Master
open-toan
as
Hall
c
Masoni
a
of
tion
Dedica
of
ny
Ceremo
the
~t
suggest
endorse
the-public event should be adopted as a policy of Grand Lodge. We
policy.
of
matter
a
is
it
believe
and
this suggestion
Adopted.
ANNIVERSARY CERTIFICATES FOR LoDGES
RECOMMENDATION No. 4 (pg. 45)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Master
We approve of this suggestion and we believe that the Grand
ates. The
Certific
rsary
Annive
issue
to
ry
necessa
ty
authori
the
has
ly
present
tee for
Grand Master has recommended the appointment of a special commit
the
that
s
suggest
ttee
Commi
Our
the P~~ of designing such certificates.
special
a
think
We
ent.
assignm
this
given
be
ttee
Masomc History Commi
committee is not necessary.
Not adopted.

75 YEAR PINs
CEREMO NY No. 5 (pg. 46)
nON
MENDA
RECOM
The Committee on Ritual:
ttee
~elative to Grand Master 's Recommendation No. 5 that the Commi
75
to
buttons
s
Veteran
of
ation
on Ritual compose a Ceremony for the present
use
for
ny
Ceremo
a
such
ct
constru
to
happy
year Masons, we shall be most
riate
at the next such presentation, and which, after being used on approp
Lodge
Grand
oc~ons throughout ~e c~ming year, shall be submitted to this
adoption.
at its Annual Commuwcation of 1972 for consideration and possible
Adopted.
MORTGAGE BURNIN G CEREMO NY
RECOM MENDA TION No. 6 (pg. 46)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
and we
.we approve the establishment of a Mortgage Burning Ceremony
is both
e
Messag
's
Master
Grand
the
in
d
propose
believe that the ceremony
adequa te and very well prepared.
The Committee on Ritual:
a
Your Co~ttee on Ritual was requested early in the year to prepare
Lodge.
ent
constitu
a
of
burning
ge
mortga
the
at
use
for
Ceremony smtable

CONTIN UE CODE REVISIO N COMMI TTEE
RECOMMENDATION No. 7 (pg. 52)

Adopted. (See emergent resolution, these Proceedings)
BLOOD BANK
RECOMMENDATION No. 8

(pg. 52)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
we
We have reviewed the report of the Committee on Jurisprudence and
report.
their
with
will concur
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
to the
In the Grand Master 's Message he reported his action with regard
is
I:OOge
Grand
the
operation of Blood Banks by Boards of Relief while
on
t~
Commi
your
asked
and
Bank
considering a Grand Jurisdiction Blood
to
Jurisprudence to interpr et the resolution held over from 1970 relating
the
not
or
wheth~
to
as
advise
and
es
activiti
their
and
Boards of Relief
to handle
phrase "prope r Masonic activities" would permit Boards of Relie!
hed.
establis
was
Bank
Blood
Blood Banks after a Grand Jurisdictional
d
Your Committee on Jurisprudence does not believe that the propose
a
operate
to
Relief
of
Board
a
permit
would
Relief
of
Boards
legislation on
Grand
this
by
hed
Blood Bank if a Grand Jurisdiction Blood Bank is establis
Lodge for the following reasons:
r
1. The proposed legislation on Boards of Relief only permits "prope
not
would
Bank
Blood
a
of
on
Masonic activities" and the operati
be a "proper Masonic activity " if Grand Lodge set up a Grand
Jurisdiction Blood Bank.
is
2. The authori ty to engage in other "prope r Masonic activity ' '
as
1
Contro
of
Board
the
from
so
do
to
ty
authori
to
also subject
provided in Section 263 of the C.M.C. and we feel that the Board
of Control would not authorize an activity in violation of Grand
Lodge rules or regulations.
arde
3. The activities of Boards of Relief and the Board of Control
Gran
the
and
Lodge
Grand
the
of
always under the control
Master.
d
To put it in a few words, we do not see any conflict between the propose

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

legislation on Boards of Relief and the proposed Grand Jurisdiction Blood
Bank.
Adopted.
ARREST oF CHARTER OF MOJAVE LODGE No. 783
RECOMMENDATION No. 9 (pg. 54)
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence reports that, under Section 128 of the
California Masonic Code, the Grand Master has the authority to arrest the
charter of any Lodge, for good reasons shown, and suspend the operations
thereof until the next Annual Communication.
The recommendation that the charter of Mojave Lodge No. 783 remain
in arrest until the succeeding Grand Master is satisfied that a line of officers
are qualified for certification, and that thereupon the charter be restored to
the Lodge is a matter to be decided by Grand Lodge and does not involve a
question of law.
Adopted by separate action of Grand Lodge the recommendation of the
Grand Master that the charter of Mojave Lodge No. 783 remain in arrest
until the new Grand Master is satisfied that the officers are qualified.
SusPENSION oF MASTER OF LODGE No. 819
RECOMMENDATION No. 10 (pg. 54)
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The following items of the Grand Master's Annual Message have been
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence:
Suspension of the Master of Frank S. Land Lodge No. 819.
Under the provisions of Section 129 of the California Masonic Code the
Grand Master had the power to suspend the Master of said Lodge until the
next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California. The question
of whether or not such suspension is to be made permanent is a matter for
the Grand Lodge to decide. It is not a legal question.
(NOTE: By separate action of Grand Lodge, Suspension of the Master of
Frank S. Land was made permanent.)
SUSPENSION OF MASTER OF LoooE No. 823
RECOMMENDATION No. 11 (pg. 56}

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Suspension of the Master of Maccabee Lodge No. 823. Likewise under the
provisions of Section 129 California Masonic Code the Grand Master had
the power to suspend the Master of this Lodge and whether or not the suspension is to be permanent is for the Grand Lodge to determine.
(NoTE: By separate action of Grand Lodge the Master of Maccabee
Lodge No. 823 was restored to office.)

,

77

EXPENSES OF BOARDS OF RELIBF
RECOMMENDATION No. 12 (pg. 56)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has wisely recommended a basic policy that expenses
paid on behalf of Boards of Relief and the Endowment Board program should
be charged to the responsible entities. Your Committee approves this policy
and further suggests that the same concept should apply to the California
Masonic Foundation Board.
Adopted.
EXPENSES OF HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
RECOMMENDATION No. 13 (pg. 57)
(NoTE: See also report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
on Recommendation 12.)
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION - REIMBURSEMENT TO GRAND LoDGE
RECOMMENDATION No. 14 (pg. 60)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The position of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes is contained in its report on proposed Resolution No. 29.
Adopted.
(NOTE: See also Grand Lodge action on Resolution 29.)
RELmF FOR A MENTALLY IMPAIRED AnULT CHILD oF A MASON
RECOMMENDATION No. 15 (pg. 64)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We urge that immediate attention be accorded to the present problem
facing Redondo Lodge No. 328, as outlined in the Grand Master's Message,
and we approve the Grand Master's recommendation that the Board of
Trustees of the Masonic Homes undertake a study for possible amendment
of its requirements whereby outside relief may be granted under exceptional
drcumstances. The Board of Trustees should make its report on this to the
Grand Lodge at the 1972 Annual Communication.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The matter of Relief for a Physically or Mentally impaired adult child
of a Mason, appearing on pages 38 and 39 of the Grand Master's Annual
Message has been referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Master ruled that, in exceptional circumstances, a Lodge may
grant relief to an adult orphan child of a deceased Mason.

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee unanimously agrees with this ruling. We hold that a
proper and Masonic interpretation and application of Section 601 of the
California Masonic Code and the annotations thereto requires that the
relief be granted in the instance cited.
We also hold that the Grand Master's recommendation that the By-Laws
of the Masonic Homes of California be amended to provide for outside relief
under exceptional circumstances presents no legal problem.
The Committee therefore, moves that the Grand Master's ruling be
approved.
Adopted.

DECISIONS

STUDY OF PRIORITIBS:
RECOMMENDATION No. 16 (pg. 65)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We endorse the Grand Master's recommendation concerning the need for
a Study of Priorities. We suggest that the first step in such a study program
might properly be a request to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
for a determination and proposal as to basic priorities and categories thereof,
prior to the appointment of a special committee and/or the issuance of a
general invitation for the submission of suggestions for particular programs
and projects. To do otherwise provides the possibility of priorities being set
on the basis of proposals at hand whether timely or not. At the proper time
the Grand Master should issue the invitation for the submission of programs
and projects.
Adopted.
SUGGESTION OF MASONIC FLOAT FOR ROSE PARADE
RECOMMENDATION No. 17 (pg. 66)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master's proposal for the entry of a Masonic float in the
January 1, 1973, Pasadena Tournament of Roses Parade is exciting and
appealing, and your Committee has no doubt as to the message that might be
conveyed or as to the pride with which such an entry would be viewed by the
total Masonic Family of our jurisdiction. However, we feel compelled to
recommend against participation. We believe that there are other requirements •
and necessities of the use of general Grand Lodge funds that are of greater
priority and of more lasting benefit. In a period of declining membership and
increasing costs we feel that we cannot approve a one-time expenditure of
this magnitude with its resultant increase in the per capita tax for the Lodges
of this jurisdiction. Perhaps financial sources other than the general fund of
Grand Lodge might be discovered or secured, in which case we would most
heartily approve the proposed Tournament of Roses Parade participation.
Adopted policy not to expend funds.

79

LoDGE OFFICERS - EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT
DECISION No. 1 (pg. 61)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We concur with the Grand Master's decision.

,

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Grand Master, during his term of office, ruled that where a Master
of a Lodge and a Warden of the same Lodge both attended the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge and the Master was also and at the same time
attending as a member of a Grand Lodge committee, and served on such
committee during all of the time while there, and the Warden attended the
session of Grand Lodge as the representative of the Lodge, then each was
entitled to reimbursement for his expenses.
This decision of the Grand Master was referred to the Committee on
Jurisprudence. The Committee finds that the Grand Master was correct in
his decision under the provisions of Sections 174 and 176 of the California
Masonic Code.
The Committee, therefore, moves that the Grand Master's decision be
approved.
Adopted.
EXPENDITURE OF LoDGE FUNDS FOR
PuBLIC SCHOOLS EVENTS
DECISION No. 2 (pg. 62)

The Ct>mmittee on Policy and General Purposes:
We concur with the Grand Master's decision on points 1 and 3. On Point
2 we have reviewed the report of the Jurisprudence Committee and we will
concur in that report.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
There was referred to the Jurisprudence Committee for review the decision
of the Grand Master set forth in his message under the heading of "Expenditure of Lodge Funds For Public Schools Events".
Three questions were presented to the Grand Master for his ruling. We
will take the third one first.
Is it a proper expenditure of Lodge funds to award a cash scholarship to
a deserving student? His answer was no. The ruling was correct.
.
To the question "Is it a permissible expenditure of Lodge funds to give
prizes in the form of U. S. Government bonds to winners of essay contests
during or related to Public Schools Week?" The Grand Master correctly
replied in the affirmative.
Section 410 of the CMC provides that the expenditure of funds for any
program required by Grand Lodge or the Grand Master shall be deemed to be

80

81

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a part of the necessary expenses of the Lodge. Expenditures in connection
with the required observance of Public Schools Week fall within this section.
However, we question the Grand Master's requirement that the expenditure come out of the refreshment fund. His stated purpose is to keep such
expenditures within reasonable bounds. We think this is accomplished by
the limitation in his ruling that the prizes must be of nominal value. The
refreshment fund is "for purposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse". (Section 412 CMC)
To the question "is it a proper expenditure of Lodge funds to make a
contribution of cash to the library of a school in the name of a contest
winner?", the Grand Master's answer was "No", based upon Section 409
CMC and the annotations thereunder.
While the question is not explicit as to whether the contest winner referred to is in connection with the Lodge's observance of Public Schools
Week, on the basis of the Grand Master's statement that it is not a "necessary adjunct of Public Schools Week" we assume this is the purport of the
question. So construed, we doubt the correctness of the ruling. If the giving
of a prize for winning an essay contest in connection with the observance is
permissible under Section 410 CMC, we fail to see that it makes any legal
difference whether the prize goes directly to the winner or to the school library
in his name. Under these we are of the opinion that Section 409 CMC does not
apply.
Adopted as amended in Committee on Jurisprudence report.

governing this matter. We know that the question of having the Tiler enter
and retire from the Lodge room while the ballot is in progress has been a
problem which has confronted the Masters of Lodges intermittently for many
years.
Sections 534 and 323c are in conflict regarding this problem of the Tiler
voting and we feel that the Grand Master ruled correctly in the matter.
We recommend the approval of Decision No. 3.
Adopted.

VOTING BY THE TILER OF A LoDGE
DECISION No. 3 (pg. 63)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We concur with the Grand Master's decision and approve the procedure
he has outlined, with the observation that many Lodges have been following
this procedure for many years.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the Grand Master's
Decision that the Tiler is entitled to vote on questions before the Lodge and
must ballot on applicants for the Degrees or for affiliation and his recommendations for the procedure to handle such voting and finds the Decision
and recommendations to be correct and proper.
We recommend approval thereof.
The Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual, to which has been presented the Grand Master's Decision No. 3 regarding what procedures apply when the Tiler, a member of the Lodge, desires to enter the Lodge room and cast a ballot or vote,
has carefully considered this decision and wishes to report as follows:
We agree with the Grand Master in his assessment of the Code sections

,

EXPENDITURE OF LODGE FUNDS
FOR PAST MASTERS DINNER
DECISION No. 4 (pg. 64)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee believes that the Grand Master has drawn too sharp a
line in his application of the definition of "promotion of fraternal intercourse."
We believe that the determination as to whether or not the wives of Past
Masters of a Lodge should be guests of the Lodge at a Past Masters Night
dinner should be left to the discretion of the Lodge. The "promotion of
fraternal intercourse" should include the concept of the gracious host.
I move the adoption of this report.
Adopted as amended by Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
SPECIAL CoMMUNICAnoNs oF GRAND Looox

1970
November ?-Constitution, Kem River Valley Lodge, Kernville.
November 14-Cornerstone, William E. Fanning Elementary School, Brea.
1971
January 30-Cornerstone - Masonic Temple, National City.
March 6-Comerstone - Cyrus W. Shepard Learning Resource Center,
Seal Beach.
April 3-Dedication - General Henry H. Arnold Lodge No. 791, Masonic
Temple, Rosamond.
April 24-Cornerstone - Los Altos Elementary School, Chula Vista.
May 22-Cornerstone- Springbrook Masonic Temple, Vallejo.
(Lester·S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the Grand
Master)
June 12-Cornerstone- Rancho San Justo Elementary School, Hollister.
(Lester S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the Grand
Master)
June 26-Comerstone-C ity Hall, Del Rey Oaks.
July 31-Cornerstone-W estwood Elementary School, Rancho Bernardo.
August 7-Comerstone & Dedication -Arcata Masonic Temple, Arcata.

82

83

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

August 13---Cornerstone - Scottish Rite Memorial Temple, San Bernardino.
August 14-Dedication - Fairfield-Suisun Masonic Temple, Fairfield.
August 17-Dedication - Masonic Temple, Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672,
Laguna Beach.
August 21---Cornerstone & Dedication, Masonic Temple, Capital City Lodge
No. 499, Sacramento.
September 15-Dedication, Masonic Temple, South West Lodge No. 283,
National City.
September 23---Comerstone - Redlands High School, Redlands.
September 24---Cornerstone - Mary Putnam Henck School, Lake Arrow-

October 18-Breakfast, San Francisco Masters & Wardens Assn., San
Francisco.
October 23-Reception, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles.
October 24-Reception, Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers Assn., San Jose.
October 25-Breakfast, San Mateo County Officers Assn., San Mateo.
October 25-lonic Lodge No. 520 Annual Social Event, Los Angeles.
November 2-Barbeque, Hesperian Lodge No. 264, Santa Maria.
(Chester R. MacPhee, Grand Treasurer, represented the Grand Master)
November 9-Astronaut'i:; Night, Guest Speaker Colonel Stafford, Los
Angeles.
November 11-Annual Session, Grand Guardian Council 1.0.J .D., San
Diego.
.
November 15-All Masonic Family Reception, Los Angeles.
November 18, 19, 20, 21-Death Valley Daze, Knights Templar, Death
Valley.
November 20-Reception-502nd Masonic District, Ridgecrest.
November 21-Breakfast, Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691, Ridgecrest.
November 25-Dinner honoring Niles 0. Millar and presentation of Fifty
Year Button, Berkeley.
November 28-Annual Convention, Northern California DeMolay Assn.,
Redding.
November 30-Presentation of flowers to 105-year-old resident of the Masonic Home in Union City.
December 5-Annual Assembly, Saint Gabriel Conclave, Order of the Red
Cross of Constantine & Appendent Orders, Los Angeles.
December 6-Institution, DeMolay Saint Bernard Priory of the DeMolay
Order of Knighthood, Long Beach.
December 7-Past Masters and Charter Members Night, Dinner and Meeting, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles.
December 17---Covina Home Christmas Party, Covina.
December 18-Installation of Officers, Lake Chabot Lodge No. 770, Castro
Valley.
December 19-Installation of Officers, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Los
Angeles.
December 23-Decoto Home Christmas Party, Union City.

head.
September 25---Cornerstone - Boron High School, Boron.
September 25---Cornerstone, Masonic Temple, Boron Lodge No. 822, Boron.
October 2---Cornerstone & Dedication, Richmond Masonic Temple, San
Francisco.
NEW LoDGES INSTITUTED

1971
July 28-Tustin Lodge, Santa Ana.
SPECIAL CEREMONIES AND DEDICATIONS

1970
October 24-Dedication, Lassen High School Buildings, Susanville.
(Edward E. Seagle, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division II, represented
the Grand Master.)
1971
April 2-Mortgage Burning Ceremony, Trona Lodge No. 684, Trona.
April 28-Dedication, Diamond Elementary School, Santa Ana.
(William H. Price, Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master.)
September 18-El Rancho Mortgage Burning Ceremony, Pico Riviera.
(William H. Price, Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master.)
September 25-Mortgage Burning Ceremony, Indian Wells Valley Lodge
No. 691, Ridgecrest.
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

1970
October 16-Luncheon, Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco.
October 16-Feast of Tishri, San Francisco Bodies, A.A.&S.R., San
Francisco.
October 17-Grand Lodge Officers Rehearsal, San Francisco.
October 17---Centennial Program of Golden Gate Park, San Francisco.

1971
January 7-Presentation of Seventy-five year Veteran Button, Arcadia Lodge
No. 547, Arcadia.
January 9-Installation of Officers, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles.
January 23-Reception, Masonic Home at Union City.
January 23-Reception honoring the Grand Guardian, International Order
of Job's Daughters, Long Beach. (H. Douglas Lemons, Grand
Lecturer, represented the Grand Master.)

84

85

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

January 30-Reception, San Diego Lodge No. 35, Blackmer Lodge No. 442,
S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574 and Clairemont Mesa Lodge No. 799,
San Diego.
February 6-Luncheon, Southern DeMolay League Membership and Reorgani7.ation Meeting, Torrance.
February 6-Annual Meeting, Southern California Past Masters .As.wciation,
Los Angeles.
February 11-Meeting, Long Beach Scottish Rite Bodies, Long Beach.
February 13-Ensign Mayo Day Observance Luncheon, Stockton.
(Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master.)
February 16-Reception, 119th & 120th Districts, Richmond.
February 18-Reception, 522nd District, La Crescenta.
February 20-Reception honoring the Grand Worthy Advisor in California,
International Order of the Rainbow for Girls, San Diego. (Raymond
A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master.)
February 20, 21, 22, 23, 24-Grand Master's Conference, Washington, D.C.
February 25-Installation of Officers, Masonic Press Oub of Los Angeles.
(William H. Price, Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master.)
February 26, 27, 28-Division Six Conference, Pomona.
March 1-Amaranth Convention, Los Angeles.
March 5-Stated Meeting, Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies, Los Angeles.
March 7-Breakfast, East Bay Masters and Wardens Association, Oakland.
March 12-Guest Speaker "Masonic Sabbath", Temple Sinai, Long Beach.
March 13-Spring Conference - State Association of High Twelve Clubs,
Fresno.
March 14-Breakfast, Los Angeles Board of Relief, Hollywood.
March 16-Reception, 526th District, Los Angeles.
March 19-Reception, Golden Valley Lodge No. 796, San Bernardino.
March 20-Dinner, Sacramento Masters and Wardens Association, Sacramento.
March 21-1971 Annual Spring Breakfast, Sacramento Masters and Wardens Association, Sacramento.
March 24-Scottish Rite Legislative Dinner, Sacramento.
March 24-Dinner Meeting, National Sojourners, Inc., Sacramento. (Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master.)
March 26, 27, 28-Division III Conference, Los Gatos.
March 29-DeMolay International Supreme Council Session, Sacramento.
March 31-Signing of Public Schools Proclamation, Mayor's Office, Los
Angeles.
March 31-Signing of Public Schools Proclamation, Mayor's Office, San
Francisco.

March 31-Banquet, DeMolay International Supreme Council, Sacramento.
April 5-Dinner-Rece ption honoring The Imperial Potentate, Century City.
April 6-The Grand Assembly, The International Order of The Rainbow for
Girls, Fresno.
April 12-Meeting with the Board of Education, Los Angeles.
Apn116, 17, 18-Division One Conference, Santa Rosa.
April 18-Appearance on "Intelligent Parent Show" relative to Public Schools
Week, Los Angeles.
April 19-Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons, Sacramento.
(Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master.)
April 21-Reception, 538th District, Rosemead.
April 21-Grand Council, Royal Select Masters, Sacramento. (Raymond A.
Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master.)
April 22-Grand Commandery, Knights Templar, Sacramento.
Apn1 23-Public Schools Program, California Bodies A.A.S.R., San Francisco. (Lester S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the
Grand Master)
April 25-Breakfast, 416th & 418th Districts, Fresno.
April 26-Public Schools Program, 554, 556, 558, 560 & 568th Districts,
Los Angeles.
April 27-Public Schools Annual Luncheon, Arcadia.
April 27-Luncheon, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Assn., San Francisco. (Lester S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the
Grand Master)
April 29-Public Schools Program, 560th District, Los Angeles.
May I-Reception, Long Beach Masters Association, Long Beach.
May 2-Breakfast, 608, 614, 628, 629, 630, 634, 63Sth Districts, Santa Ana.
May 3-Stated Meeting, Ionic Lodge No. 520, Los Angeles.
May 4-Luncheon, Insurance Square Club of the East Bay and San Francisco, Oakland.
May 7-Masonic Sabbath, Tifereth Israel Synagogue, San Diego.
May 8-Reception, 580, 590, 592, 594th Districts, Lynwood.
May ll-Luncheon,P ast Masters Shrine Club, Islam Temple, A.A.ON.M.S.,
San Francisco.
May 11-Reception, 118, 160 and 16lst Districts, Orinda.
May 14, 15, 16-Division Five Conference.
May 19-Visitation, Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, Hollywood.
May 21-York Rite Honor Night, Los Angeles.
May 24-lnstallation of Officers, Union Oil Masonic Oub, Los Angeles.
May 26-Meeting with the Masonic Lodges of Long Beach, Long Beach.
May 28, 29, 30-Western Shrine Association, Salt Lake City, Utah.
June 4, 5, 6-Division Four Conference-Tw ain Hart.
June 12-lleceptien- 500th District, Bishop.

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

June 13-Inst itution of Diablo Valley Chapter, Order of DeMolay, Concord.
(Chester R. MacPhee, PGM, Grand Treasurer, represented the Grand
Master)
June 13-Mas onic-Kn ights of Columbus Barbeque, Monterey.
(Eugene S. Hopp, PGM, represented the Grand Master)
.
June 13-Fla g Day Breakfast, Balboa Park. (Raymond A. Ebbage, Jumor
Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master)
June 18, 19, 20-Div ision Two Conference:-- Lake Tahoe. .
June 20-Rec eption, El Dorado County Faugrounds, Placerville.
June 25-Gra nd Bethel Session, I.O.J.D., Long Beach.
June 25-Bee fsteak Feed, Inglewood Lodge No. 421, Inglewood.
June 27-Bre akfast, 107, 108 and 110th Masonic Districts, Santa Rosa.
July 8-Lunc heon, Aloha Shrine Club, Honolulu.
July 9--Reception, All Oahu Lodges, Honolulu.
July 12-Pilg rimage to the U .S.S. Arizona Shrine, Honolulu.
July 13-Rec eption, Kauai, Hawaii.
.
•
•
July 18-Pres entation of flowers to 107 year ol? resident of the Masoruc
Home in Union City. (Lester S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master,
represented the Grand Master).
July 25-Bre akfast, Shrine Club, Auburn (Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior
Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master) .
August 6--Dinner-Reception, Ukiah.
August 7-Rece ption, lOOth & lOlst Districts, Arcata. .
.
August 11-Pres entation of flowers to a 100 year .old reSident of the Masoruc
Home at Union City (Lester S. McElwam, Deputy Grand Master,
represented the Grand Master) .
. ..
. .
August 13-Ann ual Convention, The Valley D1vis1on DeMolay Association,
Sacramento (Richard L. Braden represented the Grand Master) .
August 20-Rec eption, 638th District, El Cajon.
.
•
August 27 28 29-Gol den Anniversary Conclave of the Southern Califorrua
Jurlsm~tion, Order of DeMolay, Palm Springs.
August 28-Rec eption honoring the Grand Officers of the Or~er of the
Eastern Star, Richmond (John H. Brown, Grand Purswvant, represented the Grand Master) .
September 11-Bar beque 636th & 637th Districts, Fallbrook.
September 12-Bre akfast, 606th, 610th & 618th Districts, Baldwin Park..
September 17-Barb eque, 246th District, Durham.
. .
September 17-San Francisco Masters and Wardens Constitution Observance Program, San Francisco (Chester R. MacPhee, PGM, Grand
Treasurer, represented the Grand Master) .
. .
September 18-Con stitutio n Observance Program, Buena Park. (William H.
Price Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master) .
September 21-Din ner, Roll Call Ni~ht, Albany Lodge No. 686, Albany.
(John H. Brown, Grand Purswvant, represented the Grand Master) .

ANNIVER SARIES

86

87

1970

October 26-75t h Anniversary, Whittier Lodge No. 323, Whittier.
October 31-50t h Anniversary, Atascadero Lodge No. 493, Atascadero.

December 1-50th Anniversary, Fremont Lodge No. 497, Oakland.
1971

February 5-lOOt h Anniversary, Los Angeles Council No. 11, Royal and
Select Masters, Los Angeles.

February 13-lOO th Anniversary, San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214,
Ventura.

February 27-25t h Anniversary, Chinese Acacia Club, San Francisco.

(Chester R. MacPhee, Grand Treasurer, represented the Grand
Master)
May 22-75t h Anniversary, Needles Lodge No. 326, Needles.
June 8-50th Anniversary, Silver Cord Lodge No. 505, Santa Ana.
June 9--50th Anniversary, Seaside Lodge No. 504, Long Beach.
June 12-lOO th Anniversary, San Benito Lodge No. 211, Hollister. (Lester
S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the Grand Master)
June 19--50t h Anniversary, Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, Los Angeles.
(Burton Meyer, Jr., Grand Orator, represented the Grand Master)
June 22-49t h Anniversary, Loyalty Lodge No. 529, Los Angeles.
June 22-80t h Anniversary, Pasadena Commandery No. 31, Knights Templar. (William H. Price, Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master)
June 26--lOOthAnniversary, Monterey Lodge No. 217, Monterey.
July 29--75t h Anniversary, Long Beach Lodge No. 327, Long Beach.
September 18-lOO th Anniversary, Mosaic Lodge No. 218, Livermore.
VISITS TO OTHER JURISDIC TIONS

1970
November 8, 9, lo-Gra nd Lodge of Nevada -Annua l Communication.
(H. Douglas Lemons, Grand Lecturer, represented the Grand Master)
1971

January 25-Gra nd Lodge of Colorado - Annual Communication. (Lester
S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the Grand Master)

February 1-Gran d Lodge of Utah -Annu al Communication.

(Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master)
February 9, 10, 11-Gra nd Lodge of Oklaho ma-Ann ual Communication.
(H. Douglas Lemons, Grand Lecturer, represented the Grand Master)

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

March 22-Grand Lodge of New Mexico -Annual Communication.
(William H. Price, Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master)
May 17, 18-Grand Lodge of Arizona -Annual Communication.
(Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master)
June 9-Grand Lodge of Oregon -Annual Communication.
(Edward H. Siems, PGM, Grand Secretary, represented the Grand
Master)
June 15, 16, 17-Grand Lodge of Washington -Annual Communication.
(William H. Price, Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master)
June 17, 18, 19-Grand Lodge of British Columbia-Annual Communication. (Lester S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the
Grand Master)
June 24, 25, 26, 27-Grand Lodge of Montana -Annual Communication.
(Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, represented the Grand
Master)
August 22, 23-Grand Lodge of Wyoming-Annual Communication.
(Lester S. McElwain, Deputy Grand Master, represented the Grand
Master)
September 10-Visit to Grand Lodge of Baja California, Tijuana, B.C. Mex.
September 21, 22-Grand Lodge of Idaho-Annual Communication.
(Eugene S. Hopp, PGM, represented the Grand Master)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

89

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA
PROCLAMATION
YOUTH ACTIVITIES WEEK

MARCH 14-21, 1971
This year is the Fiftieth Anniversary of DeMolay in California. Many
activities throughout California and Hawaii have been planned to celebrate
this event.
The International Supreme Council of DeMolay has proclaimed March
14 through 21, 1971, as DeMolay Week.
The Masons of our Grand Jurisdiction should accord fraternal and parental recognition to this program. Also we should bear in mind that Job's
Daughters and Rainbow for Girls are sister organizations to DeMolay, and
that all three Orders have been assured of our support, our blessing, and
.
our encouragement.
Their ideals are our ideals, and the nation's future is in their hands.
These young folks are moral, and intelligent, and patriotic. The time will
come when they will support, bless, and encourage us.
Therefore, to complement and supplement the DeMolay observance, I
hereby proclaim the week of March 14-21, 1971, to be Youth Activities
Week. During that period, Masons everywhere are urged to display visible
manifestation of their purpose in furthering the interests of our three Youth
Orders. Invite a Chapter, a Bethel, or an Assembly to exemplify their work
in your Lodge. As Lodge groups or as individual Masons, visit one of their
meetings. It may surprise you how important you are to them. They will
never presume to suggest the truth, how important they are to you.
I direct that this Proclamation be read at the Stated Meetings of each
Lodge in March and, if convenient, that a copy be sent to each member
of the Lodge.

Dated: February 10, 1971
HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Grand Master

Attest:
EDWARD H. SmMs
Grand Secretary

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LOD.GE OF CALIFORNIA

91

GRAND LODGE

GRAND LODGE

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

OF CALIFORNIA

OF CALIFORNIA

PROCLAMATION

PROCLAMATION

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK-APRIL 26-30, 1971

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH

In observing the Fifty-first Anniversary of the founding of Public Schools
Week, we recognize that the most vital force in equipping this Nation's youth
to meet the many challenges of the future is the American system of free
public education. We firmly believe that the strength of the United States of
America lies in its public schools and those dedicated men and women who are
the teachers and administrators of our public schools.
This system of universal public education provides the opportunity for
fulfilling the greatest potential of American ideals by educating our youth to
become responsible citizens versed in the practice of self-government and
informed in the ways and means of preserving freedom.
We should ever be alert to danger signals which appear on legislative
or organizational horizons by whatever real or synthetic designations they
are known, which warn us of attempted trespass on the principles of our free
public educational system, which should always be devoid of partisan influence or religious dogmas.
I, therefore, proclaim the week of April 26-30, 1971, to be the Fifty-first
Annual Public Schools Week and the theme of this annual event to be "Our
Public Schools - Pillars of Wisdom, Strength and Beauty." I further direct:
That all Constituent Lodges in California and Hawaii actively participate
in an appropriate Public Schools Program.
That the suggestions offered by the Public Schools Committee be followed
whenever possible.
That no Lodge or prerequisite body programs or meetings be held during
this period for purposes other than this observance, with the exception of
Stated Meetings.
That publicity be given Public Schools Week in the trestle boards of
Constituent Lodges.
That this Proclamation be read at each of the Stated Meetings for
March and April and, if convenient, that a copy be sent to each member
of the Lodge.

The Masonic Homes Endowment Fund has been building through the
years by the contributions of the Masons of California and Hawaii, and by
gifts and bequests. Its principal is never touched. Onl~ the income, fro~
conservative investment, may be used toward the operations of our Masoruc
Homes.
Since the income does not yet fulfill these needs, the deficiency is supplied in part by the per capita tax. Rising costs and depreciated money must
be met in our calculations. Our goal is to increase the fund so that some day
the per capita tax may be discontinued;
None of the Endowment Fund income can be diverted to redevelopment
costs of the Covina Home and none will be used for the projected redevelopment of the Decoto Home. Other sources provide for those great projects.
The care of the children at Covina and of the elderly at Decoto has been
so firmly established as a manifestation of Masonic Relief that no reminder
of that is really necessary.
But we do remind every Brother that the culmination of the year's ·
efforts to secure contributions and to welcome gifts for augmenting our
Endowment Fund comes into full realization at the end of each Spring.
To emphasize this, I hereby proclaim the month of May, 1971, to be
Masonic Homes Endowment Month. I direct that this Proclamation be read
at the March and April Stated Meetings of all Lodges in California and
Hawaii. Also I request that copies, which are being furnished to the Lodges,
be sent to every member of the Lodge.

Dated: February 10, 1971
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
Grand Master

Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

Dated: February 16, 1971
HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Grand Master

Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

92

93

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
It is indeed with a profound sense of appreciation to the members of the
Grand Lodge that I present my first report as your Grand Treasurer.
This report is made from the official audit statements by Touche Ross
& Co., certified public accountants for each of the following entities:
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
California Masonic Foundation

OF CALIFORNI A
PRocLAMAnoN
CoNsnTunoN OBSERVANCE MoNTH

WHEREAS Liberty, Equality and Fraternity are foundation stones
upon which Freemasonry is erected; and
WJ:l~REAS our Nation was conceived in Liberty and dedicated to the
propoSition that all men are created equal; and
WHEREAS the Constitution of the United States defines in ageless
language the rights of all citizens and the manner of their self government·
'
and
WHEREA~ ou~ Fourth Ca~dinal Virtue, Justice, is implemented by
prec~pts contai?ed 10 the Constitution; no man is above the law and no
'
man is beneath it; and
an esis
citizens
all
by
responsibilities
of
~EREAS the assumption
sential corollary to the enjoyment of rights; and
W~~REAS as. Freemasons we have a self-imposed, irrevocable, obligation
a~d pn~lege, de~1ved from a noble heritage, to cherish, love and support
this Nation of which we are citizens·
' the month of September 1971 to be
N~W! THEREFORE I proclaim
Constitution Observance Month in the Jurisdiction of California'and
and .I ?irect ~11 Lodges .to arrange and perform, or actively participa:a.:1;
patrio~c exer.as~, to which the public is invited, with the objective of dem~
?nstrati~g fa1.th .m our .Nation, intensifying our allegiance to it, denouncing
its enenues. withm .or witho?t, and pledging that justice without undue delay
or unconscronable mterruption will always prevail.
I further direct that this Proclamation be read at the Stated Me f
mg
d that wherever feasible it be printed ine the
· t
·
next followi~g
1'ts receip , an
Lodge bulletin.

Ha ...

Dated: May 25, 1971

Sincerely and Fraternally,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER

Attest:
EowARD H. SmMs
Grand Secretary

Grand Master

The period of the audit covered the year ending June 30, 1971 and contains a record of income and expense for the prior year. These official audit
statements are on file in the Grand Secretary's office for your perusal. All
are in proper form; and as stated by Touche Ross & Co., were made in
accordance with generally accepted accounting practices.
The statement for the Grand Lodge indicates a surplus after expenses of
$32,802.00 for the current year.
The statement of the Masonic Homes of California indicates a surplus
after expenses of $123,482.00.
The statement of the California Masonic Memorial Temple indicates an
excess of expenditures over income of $146,527.00, which includes depreciation of $146,950.00.
In the statement of appropriations the Grand Master was requested to
approve supplemental expenditures of $21,300.00, some of which are nonrecurring.
Your Grand Treasurer is deeply indebted to the Most Worshipful Herbert
A. Huebner, Grand Master of Masons in California for his fine leadership and
outstanding cooperation. California Freemasonry was indeed blessed with his
service. The Grand Treasurer also acknowledges with sincere appreciation the
close liaison maintained with the Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Grand
Secretary; the Worshipful Vern W. Hendrix, Assistant Grand Secretary and
the entire office staff who have assisted the Grand Treasurer in the performances of his duties.
Special appreciation is extended to the Assistant Grand Treasurer, Worshipful Arthur Linsk, who faithfully fulfilled his every responsibility with
dignity and exceptional ability.
Respectfully submitted,
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, Grand Treasurer

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE F. g. A, H, OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFF",LlATED ORGANIZATIONS

GRAND LODGE F. & A, H, OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS, EXPENSES AND CAPITAL CHARGES, Continued
For the years ended June 30, 1971 and 1970

SU1111ARY OF RECEIPTS, EXPENSES AND CAPITAL CHARGES
For the years ended June 30, 1971 and 1970

lli!
l ncome receipts:
Grand Lodge:
Per capita, contributions and fees
Interest , dividends and other
Masonic Homes:
General Fund:
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
Payments through 1.odges
Income from end<aonent and trust funds
Interest, dividends and other
hnounts received on Pensions assigned by
Decoto Res I dents
End°""""nt and Trust Funds:
Income from other end°""""nt fund
Interest, dividends and other
Memorial Temple:
Bu 11 d l ng revenue
Interest and dividends
Gain on sale of securities
Cal lfornla Masonic Foundation:
Interest, dividends and other
Gain (Loss) sale of securities
Capl tal receipts:
Grand Lodge:
Gain (Loss) sale of securities
Mason l c Homes:
General Fund:
Gain (Loss) sale of securities
Bequests and contrl but! ons
Ass I gr111ents by res I dents
Transfer C. N. Flint Trust · Fund
I ncane from encto..nent and trust funds
Endowment and Trust Funds:
Gain (Loss) sale of securities
Bequests and contributions
Hiscel laneous transfers
Memorial Temple:
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
Bequests and contributions
Cal lfornla Masonic Foundation:
Transfer Assets - Masonic Clubs, Berkeley g. L.A.
Bequests and contributions
Escrow Depos It Forfeited
Total receipts - fontard

.!fil
Total receipts - fontard

$ 472,309
t'·2t4
5 3.5 3

444,331

350,383
47,726
1, 167,969
24D,02l
2 1106 1lOI

389,423
44,452
1,021,850
42a ,~8
1.sz

526, 159

434,362

l 12l0 1265
I ,230,565

2,213
11 08ft 1 8oi
I ,OS ,Ol

242,440
4,262

5i~;~fl

:n

2116,102

312,515
15,802
l2l
328,110

25,055
120,822)
4,233

21,416
11~4)
21,2 2

I 8.4o1)

po,384)

(225,283)
939,310
523,287

(71 ,062)
l ,330,631
383 ,534
295 ,569
12,660
1.951,332

228
1, 238,072

Eiipense disbursements:
Grand lodge:
Operating expenses
Hiison I c Homes:
General Fund:
Operation of Homes and outside relief
Administrative and general
Endownent and Trust Funds:
HI see 11 aneous
Heinorlal Temple:
Operating expenses (except depreciation)
Depreciation
Loss - Disposition of Fixed Assets
Interest Expense

Total expense disbursements
Eiipense and other charges to capital:
Masonic Hanes:
General Fund:
Property transferred to Property Fund
End°"""'nt and Trust Funds:
Income transferred to General Fund (income)
Income transferred to General Fund (capital)
Income transferred to Endownent and Trust Fund
Transfer c. N. Flint Trust Fund
Property transferred to Property Fund
Property Fund:
Retirement of buildings, equipment and
Improvements
Property transferred from other funds
Total expenses and other charges

I 1121,Sol

(567, 158)
l,313,609
14,8z2
z61,l23

37, 142
18,012
22,m

37,404
l l ,842
42.242

Increase or (dacraase) In assets:
Cash
Securities owned (cost)
Buildings, equipment and Improvements,
net of depreciation
Mlscel laneous

ll 1

3,987
1 ,045
2~ 000
l::232

(Increase) or decrease In liabilities:
loans from Banks
Htscel laneous

7,064,045

7,o68,459

111

ill!

ill2

szto64,04S

$7 1068,459

502,340

485.047

2,343,575
162 1 2oi
2,sos,n

2, 121,903
QO,m
2,222,51

1,220

14,162

264,311
116,122
10,781

246,767
115,260
14,241

393,229

376,268

2,01~

California Masonic Foundation:
Operating expenses

Net Increase In fund balances
(337 ,020)
l ,458,823

95

22 ,:!2Q

22, 1z2

3,429,287

3, 153,514

501 ,964

648,243

1, 167,969
758

1,021,850
12,660
2,213
295,569
91,076

56,004
408,579

!~~·~'
,59

1

tP·i'~>
2. 0

5,0

4,

~2 1 o~z 1 4~2

p 1 ~82 1 6s3

Following ls a swmiary of changes In the fund balances:

Net Increase In fund b•lances, as above

$l I ,592,632.)
2.,224,2.38

$(1,390,337)
1,651,107

411 ,798
1,225 ,370

761 ,966
227,817

(198,2.28)
( 13 ,094)

1 1332 1 too

1 2,02z,422

~ 2,582,62~

96

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Calif<>rnia:
There is .submitted herewith my eleventh Annual Report of the year's
recorded busmess of the Grand Lodge in accordance with requirements of
our law. All records of a financial nature have been audited by Touche Ross
& Co., Certified Public Accountants. Supporting books vouchers and papers
'
are on file in the office.
!he Grand T~easurer's Re~rt again reflects the recording of all moneys
received .and cr~ited to the vanous accounts under his care and custody.
Details of disbursement by Grand Lodge during the year have been made
available to and received by the Grand Lodge Committee on Finance as
'
required by our law.
me
encouraged
. To the .members of Grand 1:<>dge who have permitted and
my
extend
I
Jurisdiction,
Grand
this
m the service to Masonry, particularly
grateful thanks.
The year has been a pleasant one because of the inspiring leadership of
our Most Worship~ul Grand Maste~, Herbert A. Huebner. In that leadership
~e has brought his fine personality, great personal popularity and keen
Judgment to the Office of Grand Master. No distance was too far no task
'
too great to keep him from answering the call of his Brethren.
I would be ungrateful indeed, and this report would not be complete if
I did not give an appreciative salute to our competent and loyal Staff. To ilie
Grand Lodge Officers, Committeemen, Inspectors and the Secretaries of our
70.1 .Lodges my ~incere appreciation for your continued cooperation, the fine
pnvdege of serving each of you, the warm friendships which have been mine
to treasure and, above all, for the blessings of excellent health and happiness.
For all of these I am eternally thankful.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Blood Bank-Stud y, page S9, 1970 Proceedings.
2. Board of Control Report, Recommendation No. 3, pages 168 and 170,
1970 Proceedings.
3. Boards of Relief, pages 2S6, 316, 1970 Proceedings.
4. ~e Revision, pages 278, 32S, 1970 Proceedings.
S. Policy Manual on Commercialism, page 242, 1970 Proceedings.
6. Committees and Boards - Study, page 58, 1970 Proceedings.
7. Cor~erstone Containers - Removal Ceremony, page 54, 1970 Proceedings.
8. In-Depth Study of Operations, page 243, 1970 Proceedings.
9. Bookie~ on California Masonic History, page 54, 1970 Proceedings.
10. Memonal Temple - Property Acquisition, pages S3 and 54 1970
'
Proceedings.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

97

11. Presentation of Resolutions to Grand Lodge, page SS, 1970 Proceedings.
CHARTER AMENDMENT S

Change of Meeting Place
Following is a list of Lodges and the changes of meeting place which
have occurred during the year:
Suisun Lodge No. SS from Suisun to Fairfield.
Southern California Lodge No. 278 from Los Angeles to San Gabriel.
Moneta Lodge No. 40S from Los Angeles to Gardena.
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484 from Hawthorne to Los Angeles.
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577 from Los Angeles to Hawthorne.
Elmhurst Lodge No. 610 from Oakland to Hayward.
Southland Lodge No. 618 from Los Angeles to Glendale.
Fairview Lodge No. 629 from Los Angeles to El Segundo.
Westminster Lodge No. 787 from Westminster to Huntington Beach.
Consolidation of Lodges
All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been complied
with the Grand Secretary requests authority to properly endorse the following
charters:
York Lodge No. 423 with Florence Lodge No. 649, effective December 3,
1970, to be known as Florence Lodge No. 423.
Pacific Lodge No. 136 with Lebanon Lodge No. 49S, effective September
7, 1971, to be known as Lebanon-Pacific Lodge No. 136.
NEwLooGE
Tustin Lodge U.D., located at Tustin, was formed during the year.
Dispensation granted July 2, 1971. The Lodge was instituted July 28, 1971,
Most Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Noah Farris Thompson (Master),
John Weldon Cade (Senior Warden), David Alonzo Poole (Junior Warden),
Elbert Lowell Benton, William Walter Blazer, Conrad August Busch, Claudis
Daley Claypoole, Louis Emanuel Colteryahn, Leroy Glenn Connelly, Joseph
Paul Genest, George Franklin Gorham, Bernard Graczyk, Jr., George Edward
Grenrood, Eugene Paul Hoerner, Anthony Boyd Horn, Doy Bruce Henley,
George Wellington Jeffers, Francis Maynard Kielty, John Lejuwaan, James
Paul LeFevre, Martin Gordon Lumsden, Bruce Hutchins Morehead, James
Higginbotham Murrill, Seiko Nakamatsu, William Frederick O'Conner,
Edward Daniel Perlsen, John Joseph Pinamonti, Rex Eugene Rehnquist,
Russell Lowell Riley, George Edward Serviss, William Newton Stevens, Alton
Clair Talbott, Robert Keith Tassie, ij:oward Elliott Williams, William Jones
Williams, William Elmer Montgomery, Robert Everett Ludwig, Paul Edwin
Miller, Harold Arnold Reimer, Gustave Vanderstraeten, Glenn Wesley Bradley, William Henry Nichols and Donald Franklin Griset.

New Lodges Formed ....
Consolidations
Initiate d
Passed ...... •..... ....
Raised ...... ...... ...•
Affiliations (Calif.) .....
From other Jurisdictions .
Reinsta ted ....... .•..•.
Withdr awn ......• .••.•
Suspended N.P.D ...•.. .
Suspended or Expelled
for cause •.•.•• .....•

.........
..............

MEMBERSHIP
1968
1967
1
2
1
2
5,078
5,116
4,652
4,784
4,638
4,900
1,500
1,904
748
808
374
321
2,251
2,670
1,664
1,633

1970
1
2
4,286
3,920
3,886
1,847
719
409
2,585
1,823

1969
0
7
4,367
4,175
4,262
2,351
657
351
3,157
1,834

1971
0
0
4,075
3,751
3,741
1,792
695
375
2,510
1,749

14
12
13
13
20
5,600
5,456
5,492
5,421
5,348
Deaths
230,583*
Numbe r of Members .... 241,834* 239,745* 236,870* 233,855*
3,871
3,759
3,592
3,603
3,532
Dues Remitt ed ...... ...
-3,272
-3,015
Gains or Losses ...•.. ... -1,738 -2,089 -2,875
Numbe r of Lodges
703
703
704
711
711
(excluding Research) ••
*Plural Members
1,910
1,942
1,907
1,947
1,951
(included in total) ....
361
365
341
350
346
Research Membership ..•

................

1970

FEES FOR AFFILIA TION
Increase in
1971

Amoun t

No. Lodges

No. Lodges

No Fee
$ 1.00
2.00
3.00
5.00
7.00
10.00
12.00
15.00
20.00
25.00
26.00
30.00

395
45
14
7
101
1
103
2
6
9
17
1
2

394
44
14
7
100
1
106
2
6
9
17
1
2

703
$ 3.47

703
$ 3.51

Total Lodges
Average Fees

99

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDING S OF THE

98

No. Lodges

Decrease in
No. Lodges

1
1

1
3

1961

Amoun t

No. Lodges

$ 50.00

89

53.00

55.00
60.00

~

65.00
70.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
86.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
100.00
102.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00
140.00
150.00
165.00
175.00
,215.00
Total Lodges

lverage

4
2
13
1
172
22
2
20
1
222
6
3
38
3
79
1
1
3
7
8
3
700
$91.11

FEES !'OR DEGREES
1971
No. Lodges

68
1
2
1
13
150
1
18
3
1
34
1
1
227
1
14

Increase in
No. Lodges

21
1
2
1
1
22
1
4
1
1
14
1
5
1
8

2
52
7
76
1
4
5
9
3
7
l

703
$94.31

Decrease in
No. Lodges

1
14
4
3
3

2
2
3
1
2

ANNuAL

Amount

$ 12.00
14.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00
22.00
24.00
25.00
26.00
28.00
30.00
33.00
36.00
38.00
40.00
50.00
Total Lodges
Average

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

100

DUES

1961
No. Lodges

1971
No. Lodges

121
1
308
64

35

2
177
22
4

1

700
$15.56

Increase in
No. Lodges

Decrease in
No. Lodges

86
1
213
26

95
38

2
200
161
37
10
65
35
3
1
10
1

23
137
37
10
60
34
3
1
10
1

4

4

1
3
3

1
3
3

703
$19.38

AccoUNTING REcoRDs
Over the years, your Grand Secretary's office has handled the fi~anci~
accounting records for Grand Lodge, the Masoni~ .HoI?es, ~e Califo.rma
Masonic Memorial Temple and other related entities m this conve.ment,
central office. This has been so, in part at leas~, because of th~ conuty of
interest in the sources of income and relationship o_f areas of disbursement
of the funds handled. The propriety of these practices has been confirmed
by our Auditors the Finance Committee and, if approved by Grand Lodge
at this Communlcation, the In-Depth Study Co~tt~ in the report on our
operations presented at the 1970 Annual Commurucatlon. .
•
Progressive steps in mechanization of our recor?s continue cautiously.
To avoid the pit-falls inherent in too rapid conversion ~ step has b~
analyzed, carefully programmed, and dry-run before ~mg made effective.
During this year we have ~echanized cash r~ceipt and disbursement records,
in addition to the accounting areas noted m the Report o~ the In-Depth
Study Committee last year. Application of s~ch methods, i~ general, are
no cheaper, but greater possibilities of analysis are made available and, as
practical, are being effected.
.
Our Accounting Office continues to make all poS&ble effort to accurately

101

reflect the financial condition of each of the separate entities. In view of
various governmental regulations, particularly in areas of taxation, caution
is exercised and professional advice is followed. The requirements of our law
are fully met while, at the same time, the best interests of the Fraternity
are served.
During the last year our office has worked with sub-committees of the
several entities. Improvements in the types of analyses and statements have
been made more convenient for their uses, more accurately reflecting the
factors of cost and income. Progress continues toward simplication or amplification as requirements dictate and our systems improve.
TAX REFORM Acr-1969
Taxation legislation has been far-reaching and has directly or indirectly
affected all units of our operations. Because of the complexities of the new
laws and their applications, we have sought the professional counsel of the
management section of our auditors (Touche Ross & Co.) and in addition,
with the full concurrence of the Elective Line Officers of Grand Lodge and
the assistance of the Grand Master, tax counsel has been employed on an
advisory basis. Our Staff members have attended seminars and studied the
law, giving special attention to its application to our operations. The subject
is complex. Because much of the law is new, the extent or nature of its
provisions as they pertain to our interests have not yet been fully clarified.
As yet, its actual extent is not clear as there have been few tax rulings or
decisions in applicable areas. The Trustees and Directors of our several
Masonic interests, together with our Staff, are keeping abreast of the
requirements of the law so that all may be in full compliance therewith.
VETERAN BUTTONS
The effect of the increase in Masonic membership for several years after
World War I is now bearing fruit. Presentation of Fifty Year Veteran Buttons
to eligible members continues at a heavy pace. The same factors have
increased the courtesy presentations to fifty year Masons from other
jurisdictions.
We have been reminded by Grand Lodge Officers of other jurisdictions
that the presentation of fifty year awards to California members, now
living in other jurisdictions, should be handled by Grand Secretaries of the
respective jurisdictions. You are asked not to request presentations directly
through the Lodges. The same procedure is used by California when the
situation is reversed. If we follow this method the eligible veteran member
is more certain of receiving his award without delay.
Because of the recognition by Lodge Officers of the significance attached
to these awards, many meaningful and heartwarming presentations have
been and continue to be made.

102

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MASONIC CONFERENCE S

Your Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master and Grand Secretary, together
with Past Grand Master Guy B. Mize, again attended the National Conferences of Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries, and The George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association held in Washington, D.C.
Past Grand Master Eugene S. Hopp attended also as a member of the
Philalethes Society and chaired group discussions relating to the physical
qualifications of applicants for the Degrees.
Past Grand Master Henry C. Clausen, Sovereign Grand Commander of
the Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction, was also present. He hosted a
luncheon and tour through the House of the Temple for all delegates to
the Conferences.
The work ~ons, however, were the significant part of the Conferences.
Each covered areas of interest which related to the particular Masonic offices
of the delegates.
The Grand Master has commented in his Message on some of the
activities. Past Grand Master Mize, later in this Communication, will report
on The George Washington Masonic National Memorial.
The program as it related to the Grand Secretaries consisted in part
of papers and discussions on the following topics:
1. Membership Transfers, Dimits, Resignations and Certificates
2. Simplified Forms
3. Grand Representatives
4. Liability Insurance for Lodges
5. Automated Record Keeping for Grand Lodges
6. Memorial Practices for Sojourning Masons
7. View of the Membership Situation.
Interchange of thought on such practical matters is of value to Masonry,
and the results of each Conference have been helpful to Masonry in
California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

103

EXHIB IT A
DISPENSATIO NS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Forbestown No.
50; Concord No.117; Abell No. 146; Excelsior No. 166; Silveyville No. 201;
Confidence No. 203; Rio Vista No. 208; Evergreen No. 259; Lompoc No.
262; Delano No. 309; Sisson No. JlO; Whittier No. 323; Sunset No. 352;
Honolulu No. 409; Glendora No. 404; Clovis No. 417; Alpha No. 431; Park
N_o. 449; Argonaut-Argonne No. 461; Clarence F. Smith No. 482; Capital
City N?. 499; Joppa No. 508; Forest Hill No. 534; Valley Forge No. 587;
Carmelita No. 5~9; Provident No. 609; La Brea No. 650; Crescenta Valley
No. 652; Baldwm Park No. 660; Far West No. 673; Travelers No. 692;
St. Elmo No. 697; Bixby Knolls No. 699; Magnolia Park No. 715; Belmont
Shore No. 716; Golden Empire No. 733; Arvin No. 738; East Whittier
No. 776; Five Points No. 779; American River No. 795; Mar Vista No.
820; Gemini No. 825; Palm Desert No. 826.
To open Lodge in other than regular meeting place: Arcata No. 106;
P3:1o Alto No. 346; Charity No. 362; Neptune No. 619; Victorville No. 634;
Willow Glen No. 676; Lake Tahoe No. 707; Josiah W. Roller No. 761;
Westminster No. 787; Moreno Valley No. 804; Old West No. 813; Gateway
No. 821.
To change date of regul<u Stated Meeting: Georgetown No. 25; Los
Banos No. 312; Alta Vista-Mt. Vernon No. 464; Patterson No. 488;
Ponderosa No. 700; Moreno Valley No. 804.
Special permission for conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite Union No. 17;
Fullerton No. 339; Hollywood No. 355; Oovis No. 417; America No. 475;
Seaside No. 504; Euclid No. 519; San Gabriel No. 546; Arcadia No. 547;
Melrose No. 602; Glassell Park No. 605; Southland No. 618; Oak Plains
No. 789; Maya No. 793; Conejo Valley No. 807; Los Alamitos No. 809;
Gateway No. 821.
To receive and act upon application of a member of the Armed Forces who
lacks the qualification of residence: Tehama No. 3; San Joaquin No. 19;
East Whittier No. 776.
Miscellaneous: La Habra No. 659; Boron No. 822.
LIFE MEMBERSHIP S

Referred to Committee on Distribution.

Increasing Fee: Washington No. 20, to $500.00; Naval No. 87, to
$500.00; Friendship No. 210, to $375.00; West Gate No. J35, to $521.00;
Ramona No. 457, to $500.00; Beverly Hills No. 528, to $420.00; Glendale
No. 544, to $420.00; South Park No. 563, to $525.00; Service No. 594, to
$420.00; Neptune No. 619, to $600.00; El Cerrito No. 705, to $521.00.
Decreasing Fee: Plymouth No. 560, to $375.00.

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE

to $22.00; Alisal No. 321, to $24.00; West Gate No. 335, to $25.00; Starr
King No. 344, to $25.00; Brentwood No. 345, to $20.00; Ocean Park No.
369, to $21.00; Mizpah No. 378, to $20.00; Orosi No. 383, to $25.00;
Palos Verdes No. 389, to $20.00; Holtville No. 425, ta $18.00; Henry S. Orme
No. 458, to $20.00; Morgan Hill No. 463, to $40.00; Golden Rule No. 479, to
$21.00; La Jolla No. 518, to $18.00; Bellflower No. 523, to $24.00; Beverly
Hills No. 528, to $20.00; San Gabriel No. 546, to $18.00; South Park No.
563, to $25.00; Compass No. 590, to $21.00; Service No. 594, to $20.00;
Dimond No. 603, to $24.00; Jubilee No. 604, to $24.00; Provident No. 609,
to $20.00; Big Bear No. 617, to $25.00; Neptune No. 619, to $25.00; Point
Loma No. 620, to $21.00; John Marshall No. 636, to $20.00; Los Cerritos
No. 674, to $25.00; El Cerrito No. 705, to $25.00; Magnolia Park No. 715,
to $25.00; Yucaipa No. 726, to $24.00; Claude H. Morrison No. 747, to
$24.00; Clayton Valley No. 756, to $36.00; Coastside No. 762, to $25.00;
El Rancho No. 759, to $26.00; Five Points No. 779, to $28.00; James H.
Kew No. 766, to $20.00; Riviera No. 780, to $25.00; Mt. Wilson No. 794,
to $20.00.
Charity Committee: (C.M.C. Section 360, Article X)
Increasing Maximum Amount-Lompoc No. 262; La Puente No. 446;
Palm Springs No. 693.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Committee on Jurisprudence has reviewed the special dispensations
granted by the Grand Master and has also reviewed the resolutions relative
to life memberships.
The Committee finds that everything done by the Grand Master in regard
to these matters has been in compliance with Masonic law.
We therefore recommend that the actions of the Grand Master in granting
those special dispensations and in approving the life membership resolutions
be approved by the Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

EXHIBIT B
AMENDMENT TO BY-LAWS

Uniform Code of By-Laws: (C.M.C. Sections 339 through 365). LebanonPacific No. 136; Mission No. 169; Florence No. 423; Travelers No. 692;
Tustin U.D.; El Camino Research.
Stated Meeting: (C.M.C. Section 343, Article III).
Changing date- Southern California No. 278; Moneta No. 405; Torrance No. 447; Henry S. Orme No. 458; Plymouth No. 560; Sunnyside No.
577; Elmhurst No. 610; Southland No. 618; Pohona No. 689; Ponderosa
No. 700; Lawndale No. 753; Westminster No. 787; Tila Pass No. 797; Manhattan No. 817; Frank S. Land No. 819.
Changing time-Calexico No. 412; William Rhodes Hervey No. 767.
Providing for legal holidays - Pacific No. 136; Belvedere Sunrise No.
522; James A. Foshay No. 641.
Fees for Degrees: ( C.M.C. Section 354, Article VIII).
Increasing - Santa Ana No. 241, to $100.00; Galt No. 267, to $75.00;
Temescal No. 314, to $100.00 ; El Cerrito No. 705 , to $90.00;
Decreasing - Fellowship No. 480, to $75.00; Angeles Mesa No. 625, to
$90.00.
Fees for Affiliation: ( C.M.C. Section 354, Article VIII).
Fixing- Magnolia Park No. 715, at $10.00
Increasing-Santa Ana No. 241, to $10.00; Angeles Mesa No. 625,
to $10.00
Dues: (C.M.C. Section 356, Article IX).
Increasing - Washington No. 20, to $18.00; Howard No. 37, to $18.00;
Illinoistown No. 51, to $18.00; Volcano No. 56, to $20.00; Morning Star
No. 68, to $18.00; Naval No. 87, to $24.00; Lexington No. 104, to $20.00;
Alamo No. 122, to $24.00; Curtis No. 140, to $20.00; Oak Grove No. 215,
to $24.00; Mosaic No. 218, to $24.00; Pomona No. 246, to $25.00; Mount
Shasta No. 281, to $25.00; Temescal No. 314, to $24.00; Tehachapi No. 313,

105

RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: (C.M.C. Sections No. 372 and 373). Suisun
No. 55; Arcata No. 106; Keith No. 187; Southern California No. 278; South
West No. 283; Starr King No. 344; Richmond No. 375; Moneta No. 405;
Alpha No. 431; Henry S. Orme No. 458; Albert Pike No. 484; Capital No.
499; Queen Beach No. 540; Plymouth No. 560; Sunnyside No. 577;
Elmhurst No. 610; Southland No. 618; Fairview No. 629; Ponderosa No.
700; Soquel No. 746; Clayton Valley No. 756; East Whittier No. 776;
Westminster No. 787; Tila Pass No. 797; Frank S. Land No. 819.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on By-Laws:
With five of its seven members present Saturday morning, October 9, 1971,
your Committee on By-Laws began its review of the matters referred to it.
Your Committee checked and rechecked one hundred twenty-six changes
made by constitutent Lodges. Twenty-six in change of place of meeting and
one hundred changes in the by-laws. All of the reviewed amendments and
resolutions were found to be in order.
Exhibit B of the Grand Secretary's preliminary report, to which members
of the Grand Lodge may refer, sets forth one hundred twenty-three of the
changes. The three changes approved by the Grand Master, after said preliminary report was sent to the printers, were found to be in order. Your
Committee moves that they be included in the Grand Secretary's final report:

106

107

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dues: (C.M.C. Section 356, Article IX).
Increasing - Bellflower No. 523, to $24.00.
Charity Committee: (C.M.C. Section 360, Article X).
Increasing Maximum Amount - La Puente No. 446.
Change of Meeting Place: (C.M.C. Sections 372 and 373)
Lawndale No. 753.

of a Lodge is set forth in California Masonic Code Section 372. We would
like to impress upon all the officers in attendance here that they should check
the Masonic Code and By-Laws of their respective Lodges before making
any changes in meeting places, so that the required formalities will be completed before the move, rather than afterward.
This Committee wishes to commend the officers of the Lodges who so
carefully followed our Masonic Code.
We wish to thank the Grand Secretary and his staff for their efficiency
and diligence in guiding those who needed assistance in properly adopting
the changes.
Most Worshipful, we move that Grand Lodge approve the amendments
and resolutions listed in Exhibit B of the Grand Secretary's report distributed
at this Communication, with the additions herein-above specified, and the
report be adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
ALDEN FULKERSON, SR., Chairman
ROBERT A. WERTSCH
CHARLES H. GRACE
M. BINKERD
DONALD
LURIE
F.
BERTRAND
LEONARD K. HERENDEEN
ISAAC c. CAMPBELL

As in the past, your Committee suggests that the Lodges review Article X
of their by-laws which sets forth the maximum authority of the Charity
Committee of the Lodge during the interval between Stated Meetings. This
year four Lodges increased the authority of the Charity Committee and we
commend them for doing so.
Your Committee while reporting favorably on the increases, wishes to
remind all Lodges of the President's order of August 13, 1971, which froze
increases. This law should be complied with and should be postponed.
Even though all of the amendments reviewed were approved, your Committee found that the matter of designating holidays in the By-Laws remains
troublesome. Article III of the Uniform Code of By-Laws, which permits
exceptions to the regular date of the Stated Meetings of a Lodge, limits the
exception to legal holidays and during the Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge.
With regard to legal holidays, these should be specifically named so that
there will be no misunderstanding as to whether a particular day is or is not
a holiday. Further, the particular legal holiday should be identified by
NAME and NOT by date; that is, New Year's Day is preferable to J~­
uary 1 and Independence Day is preferable to July 4, because such description
leaves no doubt that the exception applied when these days are celebrated
on Monday in a year when January 1 or July 4 falls on a Sunday.
Particular attention should be paid to this point of designation of holidays and most especially for Monday night Lodges, because commencing
this ~ear of 1971, by action of Congress, several holidays will be celebrated
on Monday even though they fall on another day of the week.
Also, a Lodge should provide for an alternate date in case its Stated
Meeting falls during the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge. While only
those Lodges whose Stated Meeting is during the second week of the month
are affected, the date of any Annual Communication may be changed for any
year, so the contingency should be provided for.
In reviewing the resolutions having to do with the change of meeting place
by various Lodges, your Committee found that in several cases a Lodge
moved to a new location without following the formal procedures set forth
in the California Masonic Code, and when the Lodge notified Grand Lodge
it was meeting at the new location, such notice was the first knowledge that
Grand Lodge would have of a move having taken place. Thereafter, the
Lodge would have to take the necessary procedural steps that it should have
completed prior to any move. The procedure for changing the meeting place

EXHIBIT C
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1563-Petition for restoration. A member of Orosi Lodge No. 383.
Expelled December 11, 1957.
No. 1676-Restored by Lodge. An Entered Apprentice of Kit Carson Lodge
No. 734. Suspended December 2, 1959.
No. 1878-Petition for restoration. A member of Rosemead Lodge No. 702.
Expelled April 61 1965.
No. 1898-Petition for restoration. A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437.
Expelled April 61 1966.
No. 1924-Petition for restoration. A member of Welcome Lodge No. 255.
Expelled May 4, 1967.
No. 1944-Petition for restoration. A member of Alexandria Lodge No. 531.
Expelled February 2, 1968.
No. 1962-Petition for restoration. A member of Riverside Lodge No. 635.
Expelled June 5, 1969.
No. 1973-Petition for restoration. A member of Barstow Lodge No. 682.
Suspended July 3, 1970.
No. 1980--A member of East Whittier Lodge No. 776. Expelled September
1, 1970.
No. 1981-A member of Alamo Lodge No. 122. Reprimanded August 6,
1970.
No. 1982-A member of Victorville Lodge No. 634. Expelled December 2,
1970.

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 1983-A member of La Puente Lodge No. 446. Expelled December 7,
1970.
No. 1984-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled December 4,
1970.
No. 1985-An Entered Apprentice of Consuelo Lodge No. 325. Expelled
January 11, 1971.
No. 1986-A member of Chico Lodge No. 111. Suspended January 12, 1971.
No. 1987-A member of Glendora Lodge No. 404. Expelled February 4,
1971.
No. 1988-A member of La Canada Lodge No. 739. Expelled January 5,
1971.
No. 1989-A member of Callayomi Lodge No. 282. Expelled February 18,
1971.
No. 199Q.--A member of Crossroads Lodge No. 696. Expelled October 2,
1970.
No. 1991-A member of Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331. Expelled May 6, 1971.
No. 1992-A member of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224. Expelled May 6, 1971.
No. 1993-A member of Concord Lodge No. 117. Expelled July 6, 1971.
No. 1994-A member of Oak Grove Lodge No. 215. Expelled September 2,
1971.
No. 1995-A Fellow Craft of Glendale Lodge No. 544. Expelled September
2, 1971.
No. 1996-A member of Charity Lodge No. 362. Expelled September 13,
1971.
No. 1997-A member of Van Nuys Lodge No. 450. Expelled September 7,
1971.
No. 1998-A member of Frank S. Land Lodge No. 819. Tried by Pentalpha
No. 202. Acquitted August 11, 1971.
No. 1999-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Expelled August 5, 1971.
No. 2001-A member of Mount Wilson Lodge No. 794. Suspended September 7, 1971.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on Grievances:
The Comittee on Grievances reports as follows:
Twenty-nine trial records have been referred to your Committee. Eight of
those records are petitions for restoration and will be dealt with separately.
This year as in years in the past we have found that many of the problems
that arise in connection with the processing of trials in the subordinate Lodges
are caused by the failure to use the forms provided by Grand Lodge. We
have urged the use of these forms for some years and again most earnestly
suggest their use as they are the result of a good deal of experience and study
and are designed to prevent errors in procedure and guarantee proper notice.
In Trial Records Nos. 1980, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1987, 1988,
1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995, 19%, 1997, and 1999 your committee has

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

109

reviewed each record and finds that one procedure was followed in each case
that the results are supported by the respective records and that there wer~
no mis-carriages of justice. We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED that in each of the above-numbered Trial Records the judgment and the result thereof be ratified, approved and confirmed.
Adopted.
An examination of Trial Record No. 1676 indicates that a Brother of
Kit Carson Lodge No. 734 was suspended by that Lodge on December 2
1959. The suspension was approved by Grand Lodge on September 27 1960'.
The Lodge restored him to membership on December 2, 1970. No acti~n was
~en by. Y?ur committee ~d no action is recommended to Grand Lodge as it
is the op1mon of the committee that no review by Grand Lodge is necessary.
See CMC 764(e).
Petitions for restoration in Trial Records 1563, 1898, and 1924. We have
carefully considered all the petitions, and we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the petitions for restoration in the following trial records be granted:
NO. 1563 - Orosi Lodge No. 383
NO. 1898-Lancast er Lodge No. 437
NO. 1924-Welcom e Lodge No. 255
Adopted.
Your committee carefully examined the petitions for restoration in Trial
Records 1878 and 1962 and found that in each case the crime committed was
extremely contrary to the tenets of Masonry and there had been an insufficient
showing of rehabilitation. We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the petitions for restoration in the following records be
denied:
NO. 1878 - Rosemead Lodge No. 702
NO. 1962 - Riverside Lodge No. 635
Adopted.
TRIAL REcoRD No. 1944
This is a petition for restoration. Petitioner was expelled in 1968 based
upon a finding of guilty on each of two specifications. The essence of the
offiense was embezzlement; the funds involved were substantial.
After thorough examination the Committee finds that the petition should
be denied at this time. This conclusion is based upon failure of the petitioner
to set forth facts showing rehabilitation since the commitment of the offense
and finding of guilt the Committee offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That the petition for restoration to Alexandria Lodge No
531 in Trial Record No. 1944 be denied.
·
Adopted.
TRIAL REcoRD No. 1973
An application for restoration has been received from a member of Barstow Lodge No. 682 who was suspended by this Grand Lodge last year.

111

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The application · for restoration shows that the applicant has completed
his psychiatric treatment and been discharged by his doctors. His probation
officer reports excellent progress and his probation while originally for three
years has been terminated.
At the original trial the Lodge fixed the penalty at reprimand. In its
report last year your Committee stated that in view of the fact that the
Accused was not cured and that treatment was continuing the penalty should
be raised to suspension, leaving to the Lodge the determinatio n as to when
the Accused is rehabilitated and entitled to be restored. The Lodge has received notice of the application for restoration but has not indicated its
attitude.
Your Committee still feels that the Lodge is in the best position to determine when the applicant is rehabilitated and entitled to restoration and should
express their opinion. In view of the short time since the suspension and the
fact that no report has been received from the Lodge your Committee offers
the following resolution:
RESOLVED , That in Record No. 1973 the application for restoration to
Barstow Lodge No. 682 be denied without prejudice and that in any future
application the Lodge be urged to express its opinion.
Adopted.

RESOLVED , That the penalty of expulsion in Trial Record No. 1989
be and hereby is set aside and that the matter be and hereby is remanded to
Callayomi Lodge No. 282 for the purpose of giving proper notice to the
Accused and further proceedings.
Adopted.

110

TRIAL REcoRD No. 1986
a member of Chico Lodge No. 111 was charged
1986
No.
In Trial Record
in excess of $200.00. The Accused requested
sums
of
theft
of
counts
four
with
a trial after which he was found guilty of all four counts and the Trial Commission imposed the penalty of suspension.
It has always been the feeling of this Committee that after a member has
been convicted of a crime serious enough to be classified as a felony he should
be expelled.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption.
RESOLVED , That the findings of the Trial Commission in Record No.
1986 be approved but that the penalty be raised to expulsion and that the
member be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.
TRIAL REcoRD No. 1989
A member of Callayomi Lodge No. 282 was convicted of a felony and
imprisoned in a California state facility.
A written notice paraphrasing the provisions of C.M.C. 732 was sent by
the Lodge to the Accused rather than using the proper form as provided by
C.M.C. 689.
The notice sent by the Lodge was defective and failed properly to notify
the Accused of his right to a Masonic Trial as an alternative to automatic
expulsion.
The Committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and recommends
its adoption:

TRIAL REcoRD No. 1994
of Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, was arrested and
member
a
The Accused,
charged with grand theft for having taken money in excess of two hundred
dollars from each of three national banks. He plead nolo contendere to the
first count and the other two counts were dismissed. He was sent to the
California Medical Facility at Vacaville for diagnosis and recommendation.
On his return sentence was suspended and the Accused was granted probation.
Charges were filed by a Past Master of the Lodge. The Accused did not answer
and the Trial Master after investigation found him guilty and fixed the penalty
at expulsion. The forms furnished by Grand Lodge were not all used. The Accused has appealed and states that he talked to the Trial Master on a number
of occasions who told him that if he did not answer he would only be suspended and not expelled and relying on this assurance he did not answer the
charges. This is confirmed in a typewritten letter from the Trial Master
fixing the penalty at suspension. The word suspension was crossed out and
expulsion written in its place. Your committee feels that if the Accused did
not answer in reliance on statements made to him by the Master that he
should have the opportunity to answer the charges and present his case. We
therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED , That the action of the Trial Master in Record No. 1944 be
reversed and the matter be sent back to Oak Grove Lodge No. 215 for
further proceedings.
We would further suggest that the Grand Lodge forms be used in their
entirety.
Adopted.
TRIAL REcoRD No. 1998
The Accused, a member of Frank S. Land Lodge No. 819, who had recently been removed as Master of that Lodge, was charged with unmasonic
conduct supported by eleven specifications. The specifications generally allege
that the Accused mishandled, or allowed to be mishandled, funds of the Order
of DeMolay and for a short period of time concealed assets of the Order of
DeMolay and disclaimed any knowledge thereof.
He was tried by Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 and found not guilty by that
Lodge.
Your Grievances Committee has carefully examined the transcript of the
Trial, 477 pages in length. The record indicates that Accused was charged
with the fiduciary responsibility of DeMolay funds, solely as to certain
amounts and jointly as to others. During a period of approximately fourteen
(14) years large sums of these moneys were improperly used for personal

112

113

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFSRNIA

expenses and uses. The Accused denied knowledge of any improper expenditures. While the record indicates that the Accused did not personally make
the expenditures nor gain therefrom, he had knowledge of some of the transactions, if not all. It is unquestioned, for example, he knew of the purchase
of three automobiles from DeMolay funds, which automobiles were used,
for the personal use of another DeMolay executive. One of those automobiles
was subsequently purchased by the Accused, who paid the purchase money
to that other DeMolay executive. The Accused co-signed all the checks for
other improper expenditures. While he claimed that he signed the checks in
blank, there is ample evidence which seems to belie that fact.
The record clearly indicates guilt to your Grievances Committee and we
can only feel that the manner in which the Trial Master handled the trial
caused a miscarriage of justice. For example, the Trial Master mistakenly
believed that the proceedings were penal in nature and not only ruled on
evidence under that belief but instructed the Trial Commissioners improperly
as to the burden of proof.
Your Grievances Committee unanimously determined that it was clear the
Accused mishandled the funds entrusted to his care as supported by the
evidence presented, the admissions of the Accused, and his concealment of
assets - including $31,000 in cash at various times held in his office, his
home, and the trunk of his car. In view of the fact that these funds were
those of a concordant body in which Masons have a special interest and the
clarity of the impropriety of the actions of the Accused who was especially
trusted by these young people, your Grievances Committee believes that the
findings of the Trial Commission should be reversed and the Accused expelled.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption.
RESOLVED, That the findings of the Trial Commission in Record No.
1998 be reversed, the Accused found guilty, the penalty be set at expulsion,
and that the member be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

RESOLVED, That the finding5 of the Trial Master in Record No. 2001
be approved but that the penalty be raised to expuwon and that the member
be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
ALFRED J. McComTNEY, Chairman
HAROLD s. MORRISON
CHARLES BECKER
BYRON c. MORTON
JAMES w. HALLEY
ALBERT N. MINTON
DONALD B. McCAw

TRIAL RECORD No. 2001
The accused, a member of Mt. Wilson Lodge No. 794, was charged with
two counts of misapplication of funds, a felony, from the Citizens Commercial Trust & Savings Bank of Pasadena, of which he was the Auditor. Upon
being questioned by the bank officers the accused admitted the theft of
sums in excess of $200.00.
The Trial Master found the accused guilty of all specifications and of
unmasonic conduct and imposed the penalty of suspension.
On review of the record it was found that the accused was originally
charged with six counts of misapplication of funds by the Federal Court. He
pleaded guilty to two counts and the court dismissed the other four counts.
Your committee feels that the theft of funds from a bank by one of its
officers is serious enough to warrant the penalty of expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

EXHIBIT D
SEVENTY-FIVE YEAR BUTTONS
Watson, E. Bristol, Member of Arcadia No. 547, Raised 12-20-95
Presented 1-7-71

EXHIBIT E
VETERAN BUTTONS
Issued September 1, 1970 to September 1, 1971-1,645
Total 50 Year Buttons Issued to Date-16,969
Total 75 Year Buttons Issued to Date-14
NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Abbott, Harold H. (484) ..•••••• 9-20-20
Abel, Stanley (411) ••••••••••••• 7-30-20
Abernethy, Raymond J. (61) •.•• 10-29-20
Abrahamson, Elmer E. (79) •••••• 3-31-21
Adams, Egbert H. (166) •••.••••• 9-lS-20
Adams, George (218) ••..•••••••. S-2S-21
Adamson, Frank A. (686) ••••••• 4- 9-21
Adcock, Robert Wiren (204) ..... 12-18-20
Addleman, Fred Dewitt (S70) .•••• 11- S-20
Adelmann, Charles A. (600) ••.••• 2-10-21
Adler, Eugene Herbert (296) •.••• 1- 4-21
Agostinho, Joseph C. (362) ••.••• 3-14-21
Aicber, John Frederick (478) ••.• 8-31-20
Aitchison, Robert W. (4S4) ...... 11-20-20
Akin, Morgan Jolin (291) ..•••.•• 4-13-21
Albee, Edgar Jay (633) ......... 6-17-20
Alcorn, Marmaduke L. (206) .... 2-19-21
Alexander, Byron C. (494) ••.•.••• 4-18-21
Alexander, Earl L. (462) •••.•••. 11-12-20
Alexander, George L. (21) •••••.•• 2- S-21
Allan, David (38) •••••.•••••••. 10-18-20
Allen, Albert Vertulin (300) ••.••• 3-31-21
Allen, Arthur W. (360) ••.••••••• 4-16-21
Allen, Clayton Moses (S13) ...... 1-29-20
Allen, James A. (6SS) .......... S-2S-21
Allen, Leo Conrad (199) ••••••••• 4-28-20

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Allison, Leslie (349) ..••••••.••. 10- 9-20
Allison, Robert W. (308) ••.••••• 1-lS-21
Almind, A. C. (300) ••.••••.••.• 2-28-21
Alsgood, Charles C. (480) ••••..•. 12-lS-20
Altona, Rudolph J. (9) •••••••••• 12-22-20
Alvarado, Peter L. (61) ......... 12-10-20
Anawalt, Bernard (6S2) .•••••••• 6- 8-21
Ancheta, Rufino (388) •••.••••••• 10-27-20
Anderson, Albert Earl (641) •••••• 7-27-20
Anderson, AH Clarence (3) •••••• 6-23-21
Anderson, Axel (424) •••..••••••• 12-20-20
Anderson, Claus John (347) ••••• 7- 7-21
Anderson, Elmer Leo (204) •••••• 9-24-20
Anderson, Harry L. (SOS) • • . • • • • • 3-28-21
Anderson, Lawrence A. (166) •••• 8-21-20
Anderson, Lyle Zenith (4SS) ••••. 7-27-20
Anderson, Marion S. (6S2) .•.••• 4-13-21
Andreassen, Andreas C. (44) .•••• 8-24-21
Angell, Norman Horatio (38) .... 6- 4-21
Antes, Walter (373) •••••••••••.. 9-29-19
App, Max Scouden (426) ••••.••• 4-21-20
Apperson, Orbell 0. (310) •••••••• 4-20-21
Ariasi, Felix (S7) ............... 2- 4-21
Armstrong, Ralph S. (481) ••••••• 7-16-21
Arnold, Carl Wilhelm (319) •••••• 3-24-21
Arnold, Edwin A. (498) ••••••••• 2-11-21

114
NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OF RAlSINO

Arnold, Roy Foster (294) •••••••• 10- 8-20
Aronson, William M. (120) ...... 11-13-20
Arps, Mervin W. (87) ........... 11-25-20
Asher, John Ralph (603) ........ 10-30-20
Ashley, Paul (366) .............. 11-20-20
Atkins, George P. (429) ......... 4-29-21
Atwell, George Dudley (79) •••.•• 10-12-20
Aughey, Cecil Richard (512) •.••. 8-16-20
Austin, James Lyman (696) ••••.• 3-12-21
Bache, Dallas C. (658) ••••••..•• 5-24-20
Bachstein, Harry Samuel (465) •.• 9-25-20
Backman, Charles Albert (480} .•• 6-22-21
Baer, Maurice M. (344) ......... 10-20-20
Baer, Paul Monroe (418) ••••...• 8-31-20
Bagnard, Lambert P. (324} ...... 10-28-20
Bagshaw, Thomas F. (356) •• •••. 10-14-20
Bailes, Clive A. (626) ....... . ... 10- 5-20
Bailey, Frank Jacob (594) •••.•.• 11-13-20
Baker, James D. (392} ....•..••• 3-12-21
Bakley, Joseph B. (272) ........ 9-17-19
Ball, Archie Austin (35) .•••••••• 10-13-20
Ball, Thomas Mason (715) . . • . . • • 3-28-21
Ballou, Le Roy Ovel (323) . . • . . . . 7-30-21
Banks, Archie E. (242) .......... 8- 3-19
Banks, Kenneth B. (672) •••••••• 2-21-21
Barclay, Andrew M. (290) • • • . • . • 1-26-21
Barlogio, Miles (286) •••••••..•• 8-11-20
Barlow, George Easton (387) •••• 7-21-21
Barnette, Bert B. (274) •••••••••• 11-15-20
Barnhart, Henry M. (445) ••••••• 5-21-21
Barnise, Joseph (296) ••.••••.••• 3-29-21
Bartle, John Gregory (3) ........ 2-28-21
Bartle, Karl Dumas (225} • • • • • • • • 4- 3-20
Barton, Floyd L. (405) .......... 6- 7-21
Bates, Thomas Albert (594) ...... 1-31-21
Baughman, Kenneth R. (436} .... 11- 3-20
Bauman, Edward J. (370} ••.•.•. 6-24-20
Baxley, Charles K. (560) ••••.••• 5-26-21
Beal, Harry (506) •••••.•••••... 8-12-20
Beament, Thomas H. (641) ...... 10- 2-20
Bean, Walter Paris (50) ••••••.•• 10-30-20
Beardsley, Harry C. (377) ....... 3-30-20
Beck, Fred Adolph (349) ........ 11- 6-20
Beck, Omar Davis (469) ......... 11-25-20
Belknap, Forrest B. (10) ........ 12-13-20
Bell, Alonzo Dohney (719) •••.• •. 2- 4-21
Bell, Rollin Oliver (221) ......... 12- 4-20
Benedict, William Roy (528) ••••• 3-26-21
Benner, Thomas R. (528} ••..•••• 5-28-21
Bennett, Henry Ferrie (206} ••..•• 4- 2-21
Bennett, Warren J. (574) ........ 2-15-21
Beohringer, William T. (634) .... 11-27-20
Berges, Henry Joseph (139) ...... 3-30-21
Bergstrom, Bernhardt L. (104} ... 5-22-20
Bernt, Daniel M. (633) .......... 9- 8-20
Berryman, Elmer T. (1) ••••••••• 8-26-20
Best, Henry L. (371) •••••••••.•• 12- 3-20
Bettanier, Eugene L. (452) ...... 7- 6-21
Biaggi. James P. (185) .......... 7- 2-21

NAME AND LODGE NO,

DATE OF RAlSINO

Biby, Earl Ulysses (565) ......... 2-15-21
Bichard, Charles N. (388) ...... . 10-30-20
Bietsch, George Frank (382) • • . . • • 9-25-20
Bilay, Adolph Philip (455) ••.•... 9- 4-20
Bills, Lemuel H. (180) .......... 10-19-20
Binns, Clyde Arthur (16) •.•••• •. 11-21-20
Birkhead, Robert Howig (505) ••• 9-17-20
Bissett, John David (435} ••••••. 6-14-21
Bjork, Gustave Lage (61) •••••••• 11-19-20
Blackwell, Clyde Waverly (615) •• 3-21-21
Blatter, Edward Lee (483) ....... 4- 6-21
Blinn, Robert Edward (435) ••••. 6-28-21
Blood, James Arthur (465) ••••.. 5-28-21
Blower, John S. (505) .......... 11-17-20
Blum, Erving Morris (470) . •• ..• 5-18-20
Blum, Fried (260) .............. 11-20-20
Blum, Jacob (349) .•••••..••••.. 6-18-21
Blum, Leon Albert (344) ••.•.... 2-23-21
Blume, Henry (300) • . . • • • . • • . . . 3-10-20
Boe, Max Richard (215} ••••..•.. 11- 3-20
Boggs, Kenneth C. (126} ••••...• 7-22-20
Bohnett, Karl Uel (362) •••. ...•• 6-27-21
Bolden, Harold T. (361) •...••.• 7-26-21
Bond, F1oyd G. (504) ••••••.....• 1-25-21
Bond, Merton L. (487) •.••••..•• 2- 5-21
Bondesen, Jay Swand (280} •.••.. 2-21-20
Bonham, Berma W. (657) ....... 11- 2-20
Bonnet, Robert Albert {180) •..•. 12- 9-20
Bosworth, Charles L. (468) •.• .•• 12-11-20
Bothe, Luer Friedrich (260) .. .. . 11- 6-20
Botsford, Royles M. (268) .••..•• 5-13-21
Bowers, Henry Sutcliff (395) •.••• 5-19-21
Bowman, George Monroe (366) •• 4-12-20
Bowman, John Maurice (210) •••• 9-30-20
Bowron, Bernard R. (268) • • • • • • 8-12-21
Bradeen, Norris S. (572) • • • • • . • • 5- 5-21
Bradley, F1oyd Edison (358) ••••• 2-27-21
Bradley, Linton Ross (258) ...... 5-21-21
Bradshaw, William L. (486) ..... 4-30-21
Brain, Joseph Edwin (469) ...... 3-17-21
Branch, Forest Mire (21) •••••••• 5-18-21
Brandt, Frank Benjamin (820) •.. 9-20-19
Brandt, James Petersen (387) ••.• 6-17-20
Brant, Burl W. (346) •••••••• ••• 4-27-21
Brant, Walter Paul (338) •••.•.•. 12- 8-20
Braumiller, Carl H. (243) .••.••.• 10-30-20
Bravo, Ralph Edwin (414) ...... 4-18-21
Breed, Donald Arthur (61) ••.••• 3-26-20
Breese, Lester Elmer (541) •••..•. 7-31-20
Breiner, Lester W. (367) ••.•..•. • 10-28-20
Breslow, Albert I. (639) ••••••••. 6-14-20
Breuner, Richard W. (20) • • • • • • • 1-27-21
Bridge, Elmer T. (401) ••.••••.•• 7-21-21
Briick, Ernest (70) ••••••••••••• 7-10-20
Britt, Roy Arthur (278) •••.•.••• 2-23-21
Brodsly, Jack A. (42) ........... 7-29-21
Bromley, Charles R. (396) •.•••.• 9-28-20
Brooke, Edmund Minor (471) .... 3-29-21
Brooker, Gustavus Harry (461) •• 4-14-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Brooks, Charles B. (494) .. ..... . 12-17-20
Brooks, Henry Ford (57) .••..••• 2-12-21
Brorsen, Willard Andrew (403) ••• 2-23-21
Brouse, Cecil Alto (323) ........ 9-17-18
Broussard, Emar Louis (355) .••. 12-23-20
Brown, Claude Agustus (662) .•.. 1-13-11
Brown, Dwight Emerson (258} •• 3-19-21
Brown, Herbert Lawrence (408} .• 2-14-21
Brown, Jesse Irvin (58) •••••••.• 6-15-21
Brown, Lloyd Robert (103) .••.•• 7-16-18
Brown, Raymond Joseph (SOS) •• 1-31-21
Brown, Walter Andrew (373) •••• 2- 4-20
Browning, Walter Lloyd (347) •.•• 2-26-21
Brucker, Monte Cortez (368} •• • • 6-21-21
Brudin, Aleck Emil (615) • .••••• 4-20-21
Bun, Vally Percival (1) .......... 8- 5-20
Bruns, Jonny Paul (139) ........ 5- 4-21
Brush, Norman H. (605) ••••..•• 3-16-21
Brush, Ralph E. (708} .•••.••..•. 6-14-19
Bryant, Ray Walter (299) •..••.. 4-30-21
Buchanan, Claire 0. (371) ...... 2- 4-21
Bucher, Harold P. (405} ......... 5-21-21
Buckner, Charles Gordon (465) •. 1- 4-19
Buehn, Charles (393) ••••••••••• 7-22-21
Bueneman, Frederick B. (445) ••.• 5-16-21
Bullis, Martin N. (533} •••.•••••• 4-21-21
Bullock, John Daniel (403) ...... 6-16-21
Bunch, Charles Allen (214) .•.•.• 7-26-21
Bunker, Paul Fredericks (363) •••• 3-24-21
Bunker, Percy H. (465) ••••••.•• 9-25-20
Bunker, Thomas Edward (494} •• 2-21-21
Bunting, Elwood Lloyd (375) ..•• 3-20-20
Burbeck, Donald Lee (356) ••.••• 11-18-20
Burger, Edward Jacob (178) •.••• 2-14-21
Burgess, Walter (557) ••••••••••• 9-24-20
Burk, Peter W. (300) ............ 5-16-21
Burnett, Andrew (370) ••..•••.•• 4- 8-21
Burnett, Hazen Glenn (534) ..... 3- 2-21
Burnham, Dahl Clayton (68) •••• 12-16-20
Burnham, Wilfred Ernest (68} •.• 8-16-19
Burns, Erwin Niel (348) ••••..•• 5-12-21
Burris, John David (798) •• ••••• . 11-23-20
Burson, Lesley G. (379) ••••••• • . 7- 6-21
Buschke, Herbert C. (448) ...... 7- 2-20
Bush, Jo (360) .......... . ...... 2-26-21
Butler, Charles 0. (279) •••••••••• 1-25-20
Butler, Clarence E. (35) ••••..•••• 3-14-19
Butler, Crawford R . (599) •..•••• 2- 2-20
Byers, Maurice Jasper (187) ...... 2-17-21
Bylling, James W. (242) ........ 4- 4-21
Byrd, Carroll Foster (245) ••.•••• 2-15-21
Cain, Clarence Samuel (431) ..... 9-28-20
Caldwell, Karl Jennings (645) •.•• 6-15-21
Cameron, Guy Allan (461) ...... 9-30-20
Camozzi, Emile (500) ••.•••••••• 10-29-20
Camozzi, Leon Joseph (500) ..... 6-30-21
Campbell, Avis A. (244) ......... 3-31-21
Campbell, Charles Clark (423) •••• 7-14-21
Campbell, David (26) •••••.••••• 10-23-13

NAME AND LODGE NO.

115
DATE OF RAJSINO

Campbell, Ernest Coleman (608) • 5-20-19
Campbell, Guy Foster (392) ..... 11- 5-20
Campbell, Ian (599) • . . • • . • . . • . . 3-12-21
Campbell, Otis M. (392) ........ 11-30-20
Campbell, Royal Ray (336) ••••• 12-10-20
Cane, James Jefferson (440) .. . ... 5- 9-21
Cannon, Walter Dewitt (188) .... 5-12-17
Canales, George Robert (360} • • • 4-18-21
Carlsen, Axel F. (46) .•...••••••• 6-25-21
Carlson, Lester E. (462) •••••••• 5-14-21
Carman, William L. (445) •••••. 4-16-21
Carnall, William Henry (461) .... 11-29-20
Carpenter, Edward R. (201) ...... 4-13-21
Carr, Elbert De Alton (727) ..• •• 11-12-20
Carr, Frank Elliott (56) •••••••• 9-10-20
Carr, John Edwin (346) ........ 6-23-21
Cartwright, Bertram (608) ...... 7-30-20
Case, Norman Arthur (465) .• • .•• 11-23-20
Casey, Volley William (426) •.••• 6-24-20
Casjens, Carlton H. (483) ....... 10- 2-20
Casperson, Kenneth E. (578) •.••• 9-28-20
Castagnola, Manuele N. (30) •.••• 5-28-21
Castator, Ronald E. (678) ••••••• 7-15-20
Cate, Alfred Elmer (368) .•• •••• • 6-24-21
Caton, James Pickens (220) ...... 5- 6-21
Cavett, James Ira (693) ••••••••.• 5-27-20
Cayot, Ramon Augustus (101) .••• 1-29-21
Chamberlain, Clarence E. (622) •• 5-11-20
Chambers, Paul C. (424) ........ 5- 7-21
Chambers, Ross Bradford (633) .. 2-17-21
Chapman, Arthur Smith (661) .... 9-27-20
Chapman, Clare Johnston (327) •• 1-21-19
Chappell, William Linden (236) •• 6-20-21
Cheney, James Nickerson (466) •• 5-23-21
Chetwood, Travis M. (465) ••..•• 1- 1-21
Chilberg, Arthur J. (191) ........ 3-19-21
Childers, John Edward (246) .... 9- 6-20
Chilson, James Leon (418) ...... 2-19-21
Chisholm, Robert Dudley (5) . • • . 9-29-20
Christenson, Chester W. (1) .••.• 8- 4-21
Christenson, Paul A. (465) .•.••• 1-29-21
Christiance, Glenn S. (608) ..•••• 6-25-20
Christiansen, Charles M. (126) ... 2-17-21
Cimino, Vincent N. (44) •...••.• 6-10-21
Citron, Jesse William (564) ...... 6-18-21
Clabaugh, Robert S. (446) ....... 6- 9-21
Clark, Albert Arthur (336) ...... 11- 8-20
Clark, Charles G. (418) .... ..... 4-28-21
Clark, Fred Young (327) ..••..•• 3-19-21
Clarke, Cecil W. (494) .......... 5-26-21
Clary, Elbert Virgil (726) ••••••• 4-14-21
Clay, Thomas L. (392) .......... 6-27-21
Claypool, Perry Abel (319) ...... 3-17-21
Claypool, William M. (326) •••••• 5-28-21
Clayson, Walter Scott (314) •••••• 9-30-20
Clements, Ernest L. (243) •••••••• 5-19-20
Clemo, Roland T. (230) •••• • .•.• 5- 5-21
Clinkscale, Roy William (487) ••. 2- 5-21
Close, Elon Parke (424) •••••...• 3- 2-20

116

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE NO.

NAKE AND LODGE NO.

DATE OJ' RAISING

Coburn, Wallace Walter (411) .••• 3-14-21
Cody, Jared Merwin (1) ••..•••• 6-23-21
Coffman, John Glen (802) . • . . • • . • 4- 4-21
Cohn, Albert (216) •••.•.......•• 8-30-20
Cohn, David Gerson (216) •..•.. 6-20-21
Cole, Harry Allen (332) •••••.... 7-30-21
Coleman, Byron (454) ...•..•••• 5-26-21
Coleman, Earl Hampton (200) .... 1-19-20
Coleman, James Freyman (461) •• 8-23-20
Coleman, Mervyn Caesar (260) •• 6-18-21
Coleman, Ralph L. (58) •••••.••• 12-11-20
Collins, Lawrence A. (389) . . • . • • S-19-20
Colyer, Clifford Couch (394) .•..• S-21-21
Compton, George L. (465) .....•• 9- 9-14
Compton, Willard Vance (422) •.• 8-29-21
Conety, Wesley Inman (428) •••. 1-14-21
Conn, Irving Richard (442) •..•. 4-23-21
Conner, Jowell (407) .•••••...•• 5-13-20
Conrow, Joseph W. (678) •••..•• 2-20-18
Cook, Albert B. (419) •••••••...• 2-lS-19
Cook, Emil (216) ••••••.••••..• 3-28-21
Cooley, Russell Alonzo (599) .••. 3-22-21
Cooper, Charles P. (61) ..••••••.• 11-13-20
Cooper, Howard Edward (652) .• 3- 7-21
Coops, Harold Van (14) ••••••.•• 8-25-20
Coppage,Hugh (421) •••••••••••. 11-10-20
Cordray, Otho Ray (389) •••••••• 10-27-20
Corrin, Philip (44S) •••••••••... 6- 5-20
Cotton, Horace George (461) •••• 4-23-21
Cowan, Robert G. (166) ••••••••• 11-20-20
Cox, George Edwin (222) •••••••. 12-13-20
Cox, Roy (388) ••••.•..••..••.• 10-26-20
Coy, Jesse Edgar (242) •••••••.•. 3-22-21
Cozzens, Robert Boyer (204) ••••• 8-16-20
Crail, Edwin Paul (477) ••••••••. 6- 3-21
Crapster, Rodolphus W. (478) ••• 4-27-21
Crawford, Jerome C. (38) •.•••.• 4-19-20
Crawford, Joseph Key (274) •••.• 3-28-21
Crawford, Oliver Maughs (8) ••.• 3-31-21
Creger, Henry N. (216) ••••.••••• 8-23-20
Creighton, John Lyon (478) •••••• 2-23-21
Crichton, Raymond (409) •••••••• 2- 8-21
Cron, George Dewey (61) •.•••••. S-20-21
Crosan, Harry James (224) •••..• 1-15-21
Crouse, Randolph (87) • • • • • • • • • • 3-10-21
Crout, Don Anson (459) •••..•••• 11-18-20
Crowe, John (626) •••••••••..•• 3-17-14
Cruson, Thomas Culvin (379) •••• S-18-21
Culey, Earnest C. (348) •••..•••• 7-28-21
Culverwell, Ernest A. (642) ...••• 10-18-20
Cumming, Cranswick M. (483) •.• 9- 7-20
Cummings,JohnC. (106) .••.•••• 10-18-20
Curnow, William John (434) .•••. 11-26-20
Curran, Charles Swain (224) •..•• 12-18-20
Curtis, Thomas (122) ••••.•••••• 1-11-21
Cutting, Ernest Henry (447) •••.• 7-27-21
Darlington, Harvey Smith (369) • • 8- 9-20
Davenport, Charles Roger (648) •• 10- 1-20
Davenport, Orson H. (1) •••••••• 10-23-20
Davidson, James Fleming (2S9) •• S-21-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OJ' RAISING

Davies, Fredrick C. (4S4) ..•.•••• 9-29-20
Davies, William Ernest (279) .••• 6-25-20
Davies, William L. (13) •••.•.•• 3- 7-21
Davis, Beverly L. (346) .••..•..• 3-29-21
Davis, Forrest Phelps (124) •••••• 6-11-20
Davis, Gerald W. (732) •..••.•..• 7-29-21
Davis, Gilbert James (13) ......• 3-12-21
Davis, Hubert C. (363) ••.....•• 6-16-20
Davis, Thomas Alfred (206) ...••• 6-18-21
Dawes, George Minot (61) •••.•• 7-30-20
Dawson, George Isaac (12) ••.••• S-13-21
Day, Wendell Chester (2S8) ...•.• 4-30-21
Day, Wilber Lee (492) .•.•.••••• 6-24-20
Dechent, Chester L. (3 7S) . • • . • . • • 8-17-20
De Coe, Leslie (468) •.....•••..• 6-28-21
Deffebach, Jesse Ross (202) .••••• S-21-18
De France, Smith J. (194) .•••.•• 2-12-18
De Freitas, Edward E. (327) •••• 10-21-20
Deise, Leroy E. (499) •.••.•..••• S-13-21
De Lancey, Clarence A. (468) •••• 5-31-21
De Martini, Philip T. (19) ••.•.•• 6- 4-21
Demek, Jr., Albin L. (449) ••••••• S-19-21
Dennis, Alonzo G. (288) ••••••.. 12- 7-20
Dennis, William F. (271) ••...••• 12-28-18
Dewalt, Bertram Emery (442) ..•• 4-23-21
Dick, Raymond Claude (458) •••• 4-30-20
Dickey, Leon Asa (241) ••...••.. 1-21-21
Dickson, Frank Sims ( 64) ..••••. 12-30-20
Diekman, Herman L. (131) •.•.•• 4- 9-21
Dingelday, Adam W. (455) ••..•• 11-16-20
Dinnes, Bert T. (264) ••...•••••• 1-31-21
Dinnis, Oscar Elmo (259) ..•..••• 2-15-21
Dirden, Lou E. (397) •.••••••••• 10-13-19
Dixbury, Marion F. (690) ...•..•• 4-22-21
Dixon, Raymond G. (426) •••••• 10-23-20
Dobransky, John V. (622) •••••.. 10-20-20
Dodds, Lauren H. (346) ••••••••• 2-24-21
Dodge, Van Duyn A. (521) •••.••• S-19-21
Dodson, Philip F. (367) •••••••••• 3-30-20
Doegey, John (652) •••••••••••• 11-20-20
Dohner, Walter K. (426) •••••••• 9-29-20
Doty, George Roscoe (663) •••••• 10-27-20
Doty, Ralph C. (693) •••••••••••• 11-29-20
Dowe, Leslie Howard (412) •••••• 6- 2-20
Drake, Frank Edward (209) •••••• S-11-21
Drake, Oliver Edward (209) ••..•• S-11-21
Drees, Alvin Gossage (180) •••••• 3-31-21
Dreusike, Edward F. (461) •••••. 2- 7-lS
Drew, William Edwin (399) •••••• 11-24-20
Dryer, Joseph Edward (35) •••••• 5- 6-21
Duesler, Fred C. (596) ••••••...• 5-18-21
Du Jardin, Clifford (464) •••••.•• 10-29-20
Duncan, Harry M. (351) • • • • • • • • 3-28-21
Du Vall, Everett W. (642) ••.•••• 10-27-20
Dyhre, Charles Turner (126) ••••• 6-23-21
Eagler, Albert Moses (373) •••••• 6-16-21
Eagler, Fred Gilbert (274) ....... 7-11-21
Eaglin, Elmer Harrison (180) •••• 5-26-21
Earll Sr., Joe Edson (547) •••••• 9-24-20
Early, Ray (611) ............... 1-15-20

DATE OJ' RAISING

Eckstein, Edward (60) •••...•.•• 4- 5-21
Edgerley, Harry Lasater (139) ..•• 8-31-20
Edmonson, Allen Berry (633) •.•. 11-23-20
Edward, Bertram S. (45) •••.•••• 8-19-20
Edwards, Joseph L. (204) ••..•.• 1-17-21
Edwards, Thomas Burrows (560) 4-21-20
Edwards, Thomas 0. (680) ••••.. 8-21-20
Edwards, Wilbert C. (169) .•••.. 4-20-21
Egger, Erwin Laurence (356) •..• 3- 8-20
Ehorn, Paul (3) ••••••••••..••.• 5-31-21
Eich, Warren T. (9) •••••.•.•••• 1-17-21
Elder, Charles Eugene (434) •••••• 5-28-21
Elias, Ely (335) ................ 5-21-21
Ellis, Myles Bartle (45) ••••...•• 11- 5-20
Ellis, William Van (486) ••...•.• 5-10-21
Emmans, Floyd H. G. (371) .•..•• 6-10-21
Enault, Edward George (586) ..•• 3-28-20
Engels, Basil Baird (324) . . . • . • . . 3-23-20
Engleman, John Irland (259) •••• 5- 3-21
Engler, Clarence 0. (678) •..•.•• 4-21-21
Enos, Charles Joy (128) ••••..••• 7-28-21
Enzler, Louis Robert (16) .•.•.•• 3-21-21
Epling, John Harvey (38) •..•..• 4-20-21
Epstein, Abe B. (462) ••..••••••• 8-26-18
Erb, Paul Harris (478) ••••••...• 7-25-19
Erickson, Ernest A. (93) •••••..• 3-26-21
Ertz, Hans (642) •..•••••••.•.•• 6-13-19
Essert, Ralph F. (377) ..••...••• 3- 6-20
Estill, Edward Howard (566 ) •••• 9- 4-20
Etheridge, George C. (457) •..••• 5- 4-21
Eubank, Reuben M. (655) ••••••• 7- 7-21
Evans, John Glenard (22) .•••..• 6-18-21
Evans, Leland G. (226) ..•••.•.• 7-30-20
Everman, Joseph Oscar (243) ..•• 3-12-19
Ewing, Fred J. (396) •••.•.•.••• 1-31-21
Fabretti, Joseph (210) ..••..•••• 12-16-20
Fairbairn, Arthur R. (545) •••...• 8-12-14
Falor, Albert Lesley (106) • • . . • • • 5- 9-21
Farquet, Rene Benjamin (642) •.• 4-11-21
Faulconer, Charles A. (222) .•..• 6-21-20
Faulkner, Harold Clifford (462) •• 11-19-20
Fawcett, Harry Jackson (22) ..•• 10-20-20
Fehlman, Leo George (371) •.••.• 10-22-20
Feickert, Archie C. (347) •••...• 9-15-20
Felps, Hugh Edgar (259) ••••.••• 2-26-21
Ferebee, Clive ( 485) • . • • • . • . • • • • 5- 6-21
Ferguson, John W. (61) ......... 11-19-20
Ferguson, Vern Albert (254) •••.. 10-19-20
Fernberg, Frank W. (283) ••.•.. 6-24-20
Ferris, Sam (431) ••••.•..••..•• 12- 2-20
Fick, George F. (652) •.••••..•• 3-23-21
Finley, Eugene Wilson (202) •••• 10-30-20
Fischer, Marcellus P. (18) ••.•••. 12-14-20
Fish, Lester Cecil (434) ••.•.•••• 12-17-20
Fisher, Beverly H. (481) ........ 11-13-20
Fisher, Cecil C. (344) •••••••.••• 1- 8-21
Fisher, Cora A. T. (20) •••••..•• 6-30-21
Fisher, Edward H. (124) ••••••• , 1-28-20
Fisher, Peter C. (455) ••••••••.•• 9-25-20
Fisk, Arthur Manly (210) ...•.• 1-20-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

117
DATE OJ' RAISING

Fisk, Ernest Sorring (20) .••••.• 7-28-21
Flause, Magnus R. (331) .•••..•• 5- 7-21
Flaws, James Robert (217) ...••• 10-19-12
Fleisher, Earl Barton (387) .•.••. 3-31-21
Fletcher Jr., Ed (296) ••••.•••.• 7-25-21
Flint, Raymond A. (3) •••..•.•.. 6-30-21
Florance, Ray (615) •••••...•••.. 11-27-20
Flower, Jesse Hunter (368) .•.•.. 7-13-20
Fluetsch, Adolph A. (633) ...... 3-30-20
Fogel, Moe Miller (307) ••....•. 4-16-21
Fontana, Bernard (201) ••..•... 5-18-21
Ford, Isaac Clark (643) •••.•••• 2-23-21
Forest, Joseph A. (418) .••.•.•.• 2-24-20
Forsell, Albert W. (260) ••..•... 4-16-21
Foster, Roy Ulysses (68) ..•..••• 3-10-21
Foulk, Clarence C. (343) .•...•.• 2-15-21
Foust, Elza B. (477) ••..•.••.•.• 6-27-21
Fox, Joseph Raymond (564) •••• 6-30-21
Fox, Milton (210) ...•••••..•... 8-26-20
Fox, Orrin William (599) ••...••• 3- 4-20
Francis, John F. (307) • • . . . . • • • • 9- 8-20
Franklin, Harry E. (487) .••....• 3-26-21
Franklin, Sidney Arnold (458) •.• 9-25-20
Frazar, Edward B. (387) •••..•.• 2-17-21
French, Frank E. (405) ••...•••• 10-30-20
Frey, Charles M. (168) •.••••..•. 11-24-16
Frickstad, Eugene T. (268) ....•• 5-20-21
Friedrich, George T. (322) •••..•• 11-22-20
Frost, Adolph Sutro (12) ..•.•••• 6-28-21
Frumkin, Samuel (291) ••..••.... 10-25-16
Fulgham, Burt (3) •...•••..•.•. 1-10-21
Fullerton, Thomas Walter (705) •• 9- 6-19
Gaggs, Harold Urquhart (262) . • 3-15-21
Gaither, Frank James (366) ••.•• 8-14-20
Gale, William Byron (469) •..•.• 5-19-21
Gallimore, Marshall R. (447) ...• 7-25-21
Gallo, Cesaren August (98) •••••• 4-13-21
Garben, Harry (462) ..••.•.•••• 8-27-20
Garland, Albert James (596) .••. 5- 8-20
Garrett, Elmer L. (319) ..••..•••• 5-23-21
Garriott, J. Crowell (466) •..••.. 5-23-21
Gartin, Harry Ross (477) ..••.••• 7-25-21
Gaskell, Chester Welles (780) •••• 12-18-19
Gawne, Arthur Henry (244) ••••• 3-31-21
Gazzale, Lloyd Harold (363) • • . • • 2-28-20
Gee, Howard (229) •••.••.•••••• 11- 8-20
Gehr, Sanfred S. (611) ••.••••••• 2-16-21
Genult, Elmer Herman ( 19) •.••• 10-30-20
Genuit, John Walter (577) •••••• 1-22-21
George, Alfred Joseph (306) ••••• 12-23-20
George, Luther Stanley (732) •••• 2-18-21
Gerdes, John F. (3) ••..•.•••••• 10-30-20
Gemhardt, Herbert J. (767) • • • • • 1-20-21
Gerwing, Robert Silas (241) •••• 2-19-21
Giacometti, Fred (61) •.•••••••• 5-27-21
Gibbens, William Blair (369) •••• 11- 9-20
Gibson, James Daniel (44) •••••• 6-29-21
Gilbert, Arthur G. (334) .•••••••• 9-29-20
Giles, James Sterling (222) •••••• 11-15-20
Gilliland, Lyman C. (465) •....•. 12-11-20

118
NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE 01!' RAISING

Gilmore, Robert M. (1) •.••..•• 2-24-21
Gilmour, William James (518) ... 11- 6-20
Gimble, Sr., Edwin Godard (760) .10-23-20
Girton, James (378) •••••....••. 8-30-20
Glasgow, James Wilbor (199) .••• 6-20-19
Glass, Charles Ernest (480) .•.••. 6-28-20
Glover, Thomas Walter (260) ..•• 9-29-20
Goesch, Henry W. (93) •.••..•.. 7-30-21
Goetz, Ralph Lamont (445) ••••. 12-20-20
Goldeen, Samuel Solis (32) ••.... 7-24-20
Goldstein, Herman (42) ........ 10-25-20
Good, Israel Jonas (178) ....•••• 9-21-08
Gooding, Eben Enist (522) ....•• 9-21-20
Goodman, Ewart Yates (502) •... 5-19-21
Goodyear, Marvin P. (27) ••••••• 1-24-21
Gore, Claude D. (626) ••••••.... 5-25-21
Gossage, Melvin Oliver (57) •••• 4-16-21
Gower, Alex Lesuer (406) ••••..•. 11-15-20
Goy, George Eugene (32) •••...•• 3-12-21
Graner, Louis Theodore (124) •.• 2- 8-21
Granquist, Walter N. (287) ..•..• 4- 2-21
Grant, Allan Chamberlain (33) .• 5-19-21
Grant, Frank Henry (14) ••••••. 3-26-21
Grant, William Manton (323) •... 2-22-21
Gray, Benjamin F. (278) •.•..... 10-20-20
Gray, Earle Arthur (392) ..•.••• 2-24-21
Gray, Robert M. (323) ••..••••• 6-23-21
Gray, Robert Sumner (497) ..•... 6-22-21
Green, Homer George (22) .....• 6-25-21
Green, Phillip (461) •••.••••..•. 11-18-20
Greenberg, Albert I. (335) • • . . . • • 4-23-21
Greenberg, Arthur A. (344) •.•••. 6-25-21
Greene, Sr., John Allen (670) •... 11-30-20
Greenfield, Charles R. (38) .•.... 6- 4-21
Greenwood, John P.A. (57) ..... 9-25-20
Griepenstroh, Clarence R. (431) . 2-17-21
Griffin, Frank (169) .••••••.•.••• 3-30-21
Griffin, Irvin Adala ( 182) •.••.... 11-20-20
Griffith, Hugh (43 7) •.•••••..... 10-27-20
Griffith, Ross Lucien ( 545) • • • • • • • 2- 2-21
Grimes, George T. (486) •••.•••. 6-21-21
Grim.mer, Edwin W. (780) •••.•• 3-18-18
Gross, Frederick A. (480) •.••••• 9-15-20
Grotte, Ben (518) .............. 5- 6-21
Gruenhagen, Henry W. (258) •••. 8-12-21
Guerra, Francis Paul (168) ...... 10-22-20
Guinn, Jesse, Braswell (247) •••• 7- 2-20
Gumbart, Harold Elting (780) ••• 7-19-15
Gustafseon, Amon Walter (767) •• 7-19-21
Gustafson, Carl Enoch (79) .••••. 5-26-21
Gutcher, Thomas James (713) •••. 1-10-21
Guth, Howard Jacob (144) •••••• 11-16-20
Guthrie, James Donald (191) •••• 5-21-21
Haasis, Theodore L. (389) ••••••• 5-25-21
Hachette, Grover C. (375) ••••.. 3-27-20
Hacke, Rudolph Grover (388) •••• 11-30-20
Haefer, George John (363)
1-30-21
Hagelin, Clarence E. (399) • • • . . • 3- 3-21
Hagenbuch, Jakob W. (41) •••••• 9-16-20
Hake, Harry Ezra (581) ........ 2- 5-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE 01!' RAISING

Haldeman, Henry Foster (202) • • 2-22-21
Hale, Harold Erwin (339) •..•.•• 12-23-20
Hale, William Beverly (546) .•.• 6-22-21
Hall, Harold Kirk (210) .••••.•• 5- 7-21
Hall, William Fowler (321) •..•.. 1-11-21
Hammer, Harry Glen (558) ..•... 11-23-20
Hammerlich, Henry Otto (370) •• 9-17-20
Hammond, Lowery Willett (454) .10-21-20
Hampson, Thomas C. (269) ..•••• 9-14-20
Handlen, Joseph W. (622) .•••••• 4-18-21
Handman, Frank (169) •.•••..•• 10- 6-20
Hannum, Carl Anderson (392) .•• 10- 3-20
Hansen, Charles Samuel (68) •..•. 12-30-20
Hansen, Hans Alfred (472) ...... 11- 6-20
Hansen, Harry Louis (30) • • • • • . . 5-21-21
Hansen, Herbert Charles (5) •..• 8- 6-21
Hansen, Louis Allen (461) •••••. 2-10-21
Hanson, Milton Gerald (210) •••• 4-14-21
Hapgood, James Lester (613) .... 7-23-21
Hardesty, Pink (455) ••••••••.••• 8- 7-20
Hardin, Paul B. (655) ••..•.•••• 6-26-20
Harding, Theron Burr (615) •••. 12-15-20
Hardsock, Irvin Edward (542) ••. 5- 9-21
Hargrave, Edgar J. (442) •.•••••• 6-16-21
Harkness, Maxwell J. (710) ..... 3- 1-21
Harnish, Lloyd Alvin (700) ••••• 2-21-20
Harper, Charles F. (466) •..••••• 5- 3-21
Harper, Thomas Edward (685) •• 7-27-20
Harrell, Harrell J. (128) ........ 6-16-21
Harrington, George A. (374) .... 12-15-20
Harris, Harry (120) ............ 7- 7-21
-Harris, John William (348) ...... 7-28-21
Harris, Lewis Huston (554) ••••• 1-26-21
Harris, Raymond H. (392) ...... 6-27-21
Harrison, Albion B. (399) .••.••• 4- 9-21
Hart, John Hugh (128) ......... 3-19-21
Harthom, Charles Leon (379) •.•• 2-26-19
Hartwell, William F. (454) •.•••• 9-23-20
Harvey, Everett Clyde (104) •••. 1-22-21
Haskell, Harry George (518) ..•• 3-24-21
Haskell, Leo Donald (290) •••••.• 4-28-21
Hathaway, Robert B. (33) •••••• l· 7-21
Hauser, Paul Herman (478) ..... 11-20-20
Haven, Lawrence S. (241) ....... 2-22-21
Hawkes, Philip Turner (440) •••• 6-24-21
Hawkins, Frank E. (351) ....... 6-18-21
Hay, John William (319) ....... 3-15-21
Haydon, William C. (255) ••.••• 6- 3-21
Haynes, Joseph P. (268) ....... 11-12-20
Hays, Zachary (275) ••••.•••••• 5-28-21
Hazard, Austin Holes (678) ..... 9-25-20
Heal, William Arthur (596) ..... 10-30-20
Heftelfinger, Harold R. (479) ••••. 9-30-20
Heglmeier, George Jo~h (58) .. 3-30-21
Heil, John Francis (461) ........ 5-21-21
Heilman, Frank Joseph (352) .••• 1-29-21
Hellbaum, Walter F. (385) •••••. 5-21-21
Henderson, Ferris V. (554) • • • • • • 2-23-21
Henderson, Lester T. (358)
9-30-20
Henderson, Wendell (199) •••••. 5-26-20

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE 01!' RAISING

Hendler, Maurice Aaron (475) .•• 6-27-21
Hendrickson, Nathaniel (418) •.•. 7-22-20
Hendry, Howard Watson (14) ••. 10-28-20
Henion, Joseph H. (627) ••.••••. 10- 4-20
Henke, Harold Eugene (812) •••. 7- 6-21
Henness, Frank Gilbert (323) .••• 2-10-21
Hennies, Arthur John (421) •.••• 3- 4-21
Henryson, George E. (605) •.•.•• 3- 9-21
Henshey, Elmer E. (336) ••....•• 11-20-20
Heppner, Myer John (260) .••••• 2-28-21
Hermans, Howard S. (324) •••••• 8-26-18
Herrick, Emerson B. (256) ••..•• 4- 7-21
Herrick Stephen Cowan (226) •••• 12- 9-20
Herrin, Thomas Monroe (546) ••• 7-28-21
Herron, Selden Clement (327) ... 11-12-20
Hesmer, Selmer T. (317) ........ 3- 4-21
Hewit, Arthur Eastwood (464) ••. 5-22-20
Hickey, Alfred 0. (323) •••.••.••. 12-20-20
Higgins, Claude C. (331) ........ 5-14-21
Higgins, William Gerald (486) ••• 11-18-20
Higginson, Samuel R. (519) •••••• 9- 6-20
High, Fred William (465) ••••..• 3-19-21
Hile, Harvey Harmon (296) • . . • • 1-12-20
Hill, Anthony (370) ••••..•••••• 10- 4-20
Hill, Charles Elton (592) • • • . • • • 3-29-21
Hill, Harvey Willis (394) ••••••. 2-28-21
Hill, Roy Lee (421) ••.••••••••• 7-22-20
Hillgardner, Walter L. (193) ..... 2- 5-21
Hilinger, Louis Lazurus (674) •••. 10-30-20
Hilson, Robert Edwin (41) ...... 1- 3-21
Himrod, William B. (662) ••••••• 7-26-13
Hitchcock, Donald Wagner (204) . 3-11-21
Hitchcock, Guy Nelson (37) ..... 11-16-20
Hix, Ralph Adair (602) ......... 12-16-19
Hixon, Ernest Homer (513) •.•••• 7-29-16
Hobbs, Horace Emmons (388) ••• 8-31-20
Hobbs, Joseph D. (394) ......... 11-11-20
Hockwald, Lionel (462) ••••••. •• 6- 3-21
Hodge, George Ervin (l73) •••••• 3-31-21
Hodge, Waverly (195) •••••••••• 4-24-20
Hodges, Bernard Andrew (766) • • 9-28-20
Hodgkin, Clarence Ray (478) •••• 5-10-21
Hodgson, Albert Lee (615) ...... 3- 7-17
Hoensbell, Rosse Cooper (224) .. 10-28-20
Hoepner, Walter George (396) •••• 2-22-21
Hogsett, Gordon R. (322) •••••• 7-12-20
Hoisholt, Bernard F. (275) ••.•••• 4-26-21
Holderman, Lester Dale (305) •••• 3-27-18
Holler, Wesley Curtis (343) •••••• 9-23-20
Holloway, Clyde C. (300) ....... 11-22-20
Holm, Edmund Oscar (229) •••••• 7-10-20
Holmes, Ralph Egbert ( 12) ...... 10-19-20
Holst, Walter (470) •••.•••••••• 6- 4-21
Holverson, Frederick A. (35) •••• 10-23-20
Hooker, Bernard (450) •••••••.•• 7-16-20
Hooker, Jr., Oliver C. (440) . . • • • • 1-15-21
Hopper, Alfred John (440) ...... 11-26-20
Horn, Harry Stanley (357) •••••• 4-28-21
Horn, William Ralph (260) •••••• 11-27-20

NAME AND LODGE NO.

119
DATE 01!' RAISING

Homer, Charles Bertram (16) ••• 4-14-21
Hornung, Albert Otto (487) ••••• 2- 5-21
Hoskins, Charles Lindsay (290) .• 3-17-21
Hoskinson, Carl McKee (40) .••.• 6-25-21
Hougham, Edward Bennett (224) • 3-31-21
Hubbard, John Franklin (215) •• 6- 9-21
Hubbard, Ocheltree S. (399) ••••• 2- 1-21
Hudson, Wilford H. (657) •••••• 2-11-20
Huff, Ernest (746) ••••.•..•••••. 10-29-20
Huff, John Elbert (533) ........ 6-10-21
Huff, Ralph Edward (357) •••.•• 7-28-21
Huffman, Leonard F. (672) ••••.. 3-16-21
Huffman, Roy Roscoe (356) •.•• 11-19-20
Huffsmith, John Peter (35) •••••• 10-23-20
Hughes, Harry Glover (139) .•••• 11-27-20
Hughes, Joseph Robert (369) .... 11-30-20
Hughes, Milton Dewey (244) .••• 9- 9-20
Hull, Clarence A. (169) ••••••..•• 8- 2-21
Hunter, Eugene Clement (425) • . 1-18-18
Hunter, Walter Marion (222) •••• 1-24-21
Hutchinson, Earl G. (293) ...... 7-15-13
Huxtable, Howard Homer (400) •• 10-28-20
Hyman, Harry H. (199) ........ 8- 7-20
Ilgenfritz, William T. (502) ••.•. 4-22-18
Inglis, George M. (568) ......... 12-15-20
Ingram, Robert Thomas (23) •••• 6-22-21
Irving, John Grant (229) ........ 2-22-19
Irwin, Benjamin L. (629) •••.•••• 9-25-20
Jackson, Reuben S. (635) ••••••.• 3-23-21
Jacobowitz, Jerome S. (136) .... 4-30-21
Jacobs, Jessyl B. (215) ......... 12-20-20
Jacobs, Nelson Melville (215) .... 5-29-20
Jacobson, Herbert M. (136) ...... 4-30-21
Jaeger, Ernest J. (445) .......... 5-13-21
Jaeger, Frederick C. (120) ••••••• 1- 6-21
Jaenicke, William Hugo (61) .... 5-20-21
James, Ralph Richard (375) ..... 9-25-20
James, Warren Benaiah (300) •.•• 6-15-20
Jamieson, John William (548) ... 10-11-20
Jaminson, William R. (210) ••••• 9-25-19
Janny, Alfred Walter (527) ..... 2-18-20
Jenkins, Lawrence H. (202) •••••• 6-23-21
Jennings, James Embree (426) ... 6-23-20
Jensen, Hans, Christian (225) .... 4- 2-21
Jensen, Loring Charles (22) ••••• 4- 2-21
Jensen, Peter Fredric (247) ...... 7-24-20
Jess, John George (388) ........ 10-28-20
Jesse, Burrell (516) ............. 7-14-21
Job, Albert M. (268) ........... 5-21-21
Johansen, Louis Jacob (338) .... 9-29-20
Johnson Albert Sidney (761) .... 5-24-21
Johnson, Carl Frank (22) ....... 11-20-20
Johnson, Charles Sale (366) ..... 4-27-21
Johnson, Frank Ambrose (9) .... 4-17-20
Johnson, Herbert Distin (225) •• 3-12-21
Johnson, Leigh William (481) .... 3-18-21
Johnson, Lester Alfred (106) •••. 12-13-20
Johnson, Lloyd Godfrey (182) ••• 4-19-21
Johnson, Oscar Dewey (622) .... 6-30-21

120
NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
DATE OF RAISING

Johnson, Paul Robert (80) ...•..• 11-19-20
Johnson, Percy Richard (527) ••. 9-25-20
Johnson, Sydney Styles (187) ..•. 12-21-20
Johnson, Vernier Clyde (615) .... 11-23-20
Johnson, Walter S. (471) ........ 11-30-20
Johnson, William H. (428) ...... 3-13-20
Johnston, George W. (525) ••..•• 6-25-21
Johnston, Ira Thomas (388) ...•. 11- 6-20
Johnston, Roy Calvin (393) .•.• 3-25-21
Jones, Carl Frank (454) .•.•..... 3-12-21
Jones, Oscar E. (26) ••..•.•... .. 3-31-21
Jones, Sr., Ralph Milton (366) ... 12-23-20
Jones, Will L. (199) •••.••••.••. 4- 6-21
Jorgenson, Floyd Carl (306) .••. . 12-23-20
Joseph, Joe Martin (87) ....••.. 10-28-20
Kahn, Edward Lewis (14) ...... 9-10-20
Kalar, George W. (286) .••..•..• 5-24-21
Kane, Robert E.G. (106) .••..••. 12-20-20
Karbach, Frank William (765) .. 9-25-20
K.arling, Robert Edwin (669) .... 4-25-21
Karp, Henry Adolph (393) ••.•.. 10-29-20
Kaufman, Bernard (120) ..••.... 10-23-20
Kaufman, Raymond (212) •••••. 4-21-21
Kaufmann, August John (450) •.. 6-22-20
Kaufmann, William Gustav (445) .10-12-20
Keables, Harry Roland (621) •••. 5-31-21
Keaton, Milton Thomas (569) .•.• 2- 5-21
Keen, George Budd (659) ...•.••• 2- 5-21
Keesling, Russell R. (399) ..•••••. 11-17-20
Keiser, Hallie George (347) •.•••• 6-22-21
Kenton, Wallace Claude (360) •.• 11-29-20
Kepler, Harrison D. (327) ••••••. 7- 9-20
Kerr, Earl Milton (260) .• •••••.. 10- 6-20
Kessel, Philip Henry (506) ..••.• 6-22-20
Kestler, Henry George (449) ••.. 8-26-20
Kecham, Donald E. (464) ••••••• 5-15-20
Kettlewell, William W. (233) •••. 5- 7-21
Kidd, Kay Kelso (486) .......... 7- 2-21
Kimmelshue, William M. (81) .... 12-30-20
King, Frank Lewis (222) •...•••• 5-16-21
King, Riddick M. (169) •.••.••.. 9-15-20
King, William Roland (103) ••..• 5-17-21
Kinkier, Jr., Charles H. (128) ••.. 11- 4-20
Kinney, Clarence E. (297) ••.... 6-11-21
Kinsman, Lester V. (339) .....•. 6-26-20
Kint, John Norbert (389) •.••••• 6-22-21
Kinyon, John F. (241) •••••••.•. 4-22-21
Kirkland, Elbert L. (93) •••••.•• 11- 9-20
Kiser, Charles Ellis (166) ••••••• 6-29-21
Kjer, Antone Charles (147) ••••. • 12-11-70
Klatt, Paul Frederick (369) • • • • • . 5-26-21
Knierem, Walker (767) ••.••.... 3-22-20
Knopf, Keith Max (362) •••••••. 11-29-20
Knott, Charles Elgin (363) .••••• 6-10-20
Knowles, Alfred Barton (370) •••• 2-25-21
Knox, Albert Whitney (278) .••• 7- 8-21
Knox, Alvin Chester (535) •••••• 12- 1-20
Knudsen, Kenneth (79) ••.•••••• 7-27-20
Knutsen, Jorgen (542) ••••••••• 7- 3-20
Koch, Frederick W. (754) •.••••• 10-30-20

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISmO

Kockritz, Andrew H. (345) .••••• 10-20-20
Koehler, William Fred (611) •••. 2-11-21
K-0hlmoos, Percy C. (169) •••••• 4-20-21
Koons, Lindley Vernon (265) .••• 11-15-20
Kramer, Calvin William (734) •.•. 3- 2-21
Kraul, Emil Henry (349) • • .•.••• 11-13-20
Kreiter, William Earl (300) •.•••• 3-23-20
Krelle, Henry F. (264) •.. • .•.•.• 5-16-21
Krenkel, Harry Nichols (1) •.••.• 11-27-20
Krepps, Lester Lloyd (643) •••.•• 9-27-20
Krueckel, Harold (440) •......•• 9-19-19
Krueger, Myron Edward (79) ••.. 4-19-21
Krutmeyer, Arthur Albert (435) .• 3- 8-21
Kueffer, John Lowell (268) ••••.. 9-24-20
Kueny, Harry Burton (382) •.••. 12-17-17
La Beau, William Arthur (215) •. 9-16-20
La Berge, Joseph Vincent (369) .• 1-15-21
La Brum, J. Wheelock (224) ..•• 2- 5-21
Lack, Arthur Roy (479) •• . .•..•• 11- 1-20
Lagerway, Joe (761) ............ 5- 4-21
Laird, Kenneth V. (268) ••••.•.. 7- 8-21
Lais, Carl Henry (117) •••••.•.•• 11-23-20
Lamar, Ferris Cloyd (652) .••• .. 5- 8-20
La Mar, Floy I. (373) .•.••..•••• 4-20-21
Lambrecht, Everett Clark (431) .• 8-16-21
Lamore, Joseph V. (347) ..•••.•• 9-13-17
Lancaster, Thomas James (132) •• 5-19-15
Landers, Robert Roy (417) ...... 7- 2-20
Landes, James Ulys (700) ......•• 1-16-19
Landon, James L. (144) •.••.•.•• 5-17-21
Lane, William A. (268) .•......•• 7-15-21
Lane, William Errol (347) .•••. . 2-10-21
Langdon, Andrew Hare (475) •.•• 4-18-21
Langford, Richard V. (685) ...... 11-11-20
Langridge, George Dewey (448) .• 6-21-21
Larsen, Alfred C. (258) •.••••.•• 4- 2-21
Larsen, Edward Simon (349) • • . . 8-14-20
Larsen, Harry West (336) ..••.•• 10-30-20
Larson, Gustav Sture (448) ••••• 8-10-20
Lash, Frank H. (442) ••. •• .••••• 1-31-21
Latimer, Robert Ray (382) •••••• 8-26-20
Latson, Allen Charles (363) • • . . • 4-14-21
Lawrence, Creek Guy (450) ...... 6- 7-18
Laws, Casper Hall (210) ........ 12-18-19
Leahy, Philip F. (611) .......... 1-21-21
Leak, John Amiel (258) ......... 4- 2-21
Leake, Jasper Jay (515) ........ 12-17-20
Lechleiter, Joseph A. (462) ...... 10- 2-20
Lee, Forrest Howard (507) •••••• 1-15-20
Lee, Walter Scott (726) •.•••••••• 10- 6-06
Leis, Charles (400) ............. 6-29-20
Leis, Edward John (400) ........ 10-28-20
Leishman, Robert Ross (179) •••• 8-28-20
Lekas, George M. (229) ••••.•••• 1-31-20
Lemert, Edward C. (323) •••••• 9-15-20
Lenney, Fred Lycett (422) •••••• 3- 9-20
Leonard, Allan Langdon (358) • • • 9-30-20
Leonard, Hugh Frank (802) ••.••• 6- 4-20
Lerer, David Meyer (461) ••••••• 3-10-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

121
DATE OF RAISING

Leutwiler, Edgar E. (659) ••.•.•• 1-15-21
Martin, George Handel (358) ••.. 5-31-21
Lever, Sidney James (68) .•...... 9-30-20 Mart~, Giles Anthony (16) .•••• 4-20-21
6-17-15
...•.
(120)
Herman
Gustav
Levy,
Martin, Marie Merwin (422) .... 11- 8-20
Levy, Nat (136) .............. . 8-24-20
Martinsen, Martin C. (242) ..... 11-30-20
3-14-21
......
(260)
F.
Henry
Lewenthal,
Marvin, George Work (57) ••••.• 1- 4-21
5-21-21
.•.••..
•
•..
(120)
Lewin, Jack L.
Marx, Henry Howard (2) . . . • • . . • 1-22-21
Lewis, Glen (236) •.•••........• 12-11-20
Marx, William George (481) .... 11-17-20
10-19-20
....
(104)
Lewis, Robert Sherman
Mathews, Joseph J. (337) ..•.... 7-13-21
3-18-20
•......•
Lewis, Roy Henry (129)
Matson, Henry Matthew (494) •• 6-20-21
Liljeberg, Finer S. (355) ....••. . 5- 9-19
Matthews, Arthur Pollard (146) .• 6-27-19
11-30-20
.....
Lincoln, Robert Foster (455)
Matthews, Earl Lewis (241) ...•• 3-28-19
Lindborg, Arthur Emanuel (1) ••. 7-26-20
Matthie, Glyde Fred (326) •....• 4-25-21
5-31-21
Linden, Royal (392) ..•.. • ....••
Maurer, Loche Morton (414) •..• 3-28-21
Lindenberger, James E. (431) ..•• 3-29-21
Maus, Spurgeon W. (406) ....... 11-24-20
5-21
5Linebaugh, Daniel B. (609) ••..•.
Maxwell, Maurice M. (300) •.•••• 2-12-20
Liston, Richard F. (463) ........ 8- 7-20
Mayer, Arthur A. (120) ..•..•.. 5-21-21
L!tou, Maurice G. (17) ......... 4-15-21
Maynard, Glenn Walter (449) .•.. 3-21-21
Little, Arthur Elwood (480) ..... 5-11-21
Maze, Spencer Morrow (187) ••.. 3-23-21
Llewellyn, John G. (483) ...•..•• 12- 9-20
Meads, Albert Manson (349) . . . • • 3-22-21
Lloyd, Chester A. (578) ••...•.•. 2-21-20
Mears, Marion Gilbert (486) .... 3-27-19
Locke, Carrol S. (673) .......... 6-23-21
Meek, Seaman Royal (178) • ..... 12-22-19
Lockwood, Russell Newan (662) • 6-25-17
Mennie, Alexander D. (169) •..•• 6-29-21
Loder, William Hannon (349) • .•. 11- 6-20 Mere, Loyd Walter (328) ........ 8- 3-20
Logsdon, Charles T. (558) ••..••• 7-14-20
Merrill, Alberto Eugene (292) ... 7- 7-21
Lombardi, Attilio (359) ..•.•.••. 11-23-20
Merrill, Whitney S. (690) .•...•. 2-11-21
Long, Charles Wilder (40) •..•••• 9-17-20 Merz, Charles William (9) •..••• 6- 8-21
Longuevan, Joseph B. (319) ••••• 2-15-21
Meservy, Charles A. (491) ....... 10-26-20
Lorain, Daniel Leroy (40) •..••.• 5-20-21
Metlar, George W. (1) .••.•..•.. 5-27-20
Lorber, Arthur Bernard (175) •••• 2-25-21
Meyer, Edwin Marion (30) . . . . • • 5-14-21
Lore, Dallas Dayton (296) ••••. . 6-29-20
Meyer, Frank Arthur (68) •••.•• 4-14-21
Lorenz, Frank Decatur (260) .•.• 5-18-21
Meyers, Lloyd Edgar (19) ..•••.. 4-30-21
Lowe, Max Schattman (389) •.•• 7-21-21
Michelsen, Julius A. (290) .•••... 3-28-21
Lowe, Ray (273) .............. . 1-18-21
Mier, Millard Moreland (382) ••• 3-21-21
Lowry, Robert Samuel (204) •.•• 7-14-21
Miles, Earl Alvan (394) ......... 3-17-21
Luhrs, Edward Henry (260) •••• 2-28-21
Miles, Henry Frank (9) ......... 8-25-20
Lundblad, Walter John (751) ...• 6-29-20
Millar Sr., Niles 0. (268) •••.•••• 10-15-20
Lunt, Percy Richard (327) •...•• 10-23-20
Miller, George Edgar (429) ...... 1-21-21
Lynch, Joseph Purdy (581) ...... 3-23-21
Miller, Harry Conrad (497) ••••• 7-13-21
Lynch, Lindon Lamar (122) ••••. 4- 5-21
Miller, Henry Gustave (22) ••••. 12- 4-20
Lyons, Leo William (394) ..•••.• 4-18-21
Miller, James Archibald (323) .•.. 4- 6-21
MacArthur, Harold H. (355) • • . • • 2-26-18
MacComiskey, Le Forest N. (409) 6-28-21
Miller, Lloyd 0. (351) ...•••...• 5-30-21
MacDonald, Peter J. (360) • • • • • • • 2-25-18
Miller, Thomas (147) •.••••••••• 7-28-21
Mack, Ross Lord (464) _••••••••• 8-29-20 Millzner, Lionel Raphael (168) •• 6-12-20
Macy, Charles William (226) •••• 2-14-21
Milton, Lewis Clay (304) ........ 10- 8-20
Magnin, Cyril I. (462) •••••••••• 6-11-21
Minaker, George William (303) •. 1-20-21
Maher, Clifford S. (296) •• •• •••• 3-28-21
Minckler, Lindell Horace (462) •• 9-10-20
Maher, Edwin A. (SOS) ••••••••• 10-29-10 Mirow, William George (296) •••• 6- 1-21
Mahone, George Henry (244) • . • • 9-30-20 Mitchell, Harold Edward (415) •• 2-23-21
Manary, Frederick George (472) .• 9-21-20 Mitchell, Harry Bulla (399) •.••.• 5-15-20
Manildi, Joseph S. (541) •• • •••.• 1-28-21
Mitchell, Harry Rose (554) •••.•• 10-10-18
Mann, George Willamson (358) •• 3-26-21
Mitchell, John Gaylord (403) •••• 12-16-20
Mann, Richard Oscar (5) •••••••• 8-19-21
Mitchell, William (705) •. • ..••.• 11-11-20
Manning, Albert ( 290) • • . • . • • • . . 9-30-20
Mix, George William (59) ....... 12- 3-20
Maragliano, Celso (233) •...••••• 9-18-20
Mizzaro, Anthony (30) ••..•..• •• 5-28-21
Marsh, Gordon Stanley (8) •••••• 3- 9-10 Moffitt, Hugh Barkley (275) ••••• 1-13-21
Marshall, Oscar L. (428) ••• • •..• 8-18-20
Mogle, Frank Huston (427) ..•.•• 6- 7-20
Marshall, Purl Hugh (104) ...... 12- 7-20
Monroe, Thomas H. (79) •••.•••. 12-13-20
Martenstein, Theodore A. (1) •••• 11- 3-20 Monteverde, Andrew J. (269) , ••• 4- 9-18
Martin, Arthur Howard (146) .... 11-29-19 Montgomery, William H. (634) •• 3-22-21

122
NAME AND LODGE NO.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OF RAISING

Moore, John Frank (509) • . . . . • • 4-16-20
Moore, Paul Bryan (507) •••.•••. 4-10-20
Moore, Robert Ba.Thee (178) ••..• 3-27-20
Moreland, Heber Myron (366) ..• 2-16-21
Morgan, Ralph D. (369) .•..••••. 12- 9-20
Morgan, William Victor (734) ..•• 4-27-20
Morrill, Elmer Harvey (61) •.••• 11-26-20
Morris, Carroll Eugene (375) ••.. 4-16-21
Morrison, Maurice E. (363) ••.••• 10-30-13
Morse, Arnold Lewis (471) •••.•. 7-23-21
Morton, Harold Coleman (445) . .. 7-15-20
Morton, Robert Edward (363) .. 11-13-20
Mosebach, Ferdinand A. (461) ••. 7-29-20
Moser, Cleo Earl (419) ..•.•••••• 10- 4-20
Moses, David Charles (521) ..... 10-15-20
Moss, E. Aldemar (16) •.•••••••• 4-13-21
Motley, James Walter (416) ••• • . 5-31-21
Mott, Earl Bethune (326) •••••.• 2-28-21
Moylan, Leslie S. (61) .......... 11-26-20
Mugge, Charles Louis (336) ..•••• 2-28-21
Mulholland, Clifton A. (595) ••.• 9-22-20
Mumme, Caesar T. (379) ••.••.•• 12-29-20
Munn, Charles Edward (434) .... 12-17-20
Murphy, Don Carlos (392) •••••. 5-21-21
Musgrave, George Leon (592) • • • • 8-12-20
Myers, Carroll W. (462) ••••.•••• 6- 4-20
Myers, Earl Clifford (9) ........ 12-22-20
Myers, Jett E. (533) ............ 12-27-18
Myers, Leslie G. (120) .......... 11-13-20
McCarthy, Arthur E. (207) •••••• 10-27-20
McCausland, Robert J. (528) .... 11-26-19
McCaw, David (449) •••••••.••• 1-27-21
McClintock, John I. (103) •••..•• 9-14-20
McClure, William (556) ••••.•••• 11-11-20
McConnell, Dee (662) •••••••.••• 7-20-18
McCool, Lester Franklin (169) ••. 8-25-20
McCord, Maurice William (243) • 8-28-20
McCracken, Ernest W. (785) ...•• 10- 6-17
McCrea, Raymond White (202) •• 5-25-20
McCurry, Harold James (58) •••. 6-18-21
McCutchen, Lloyd Harold (772) • 1-18-21
McCutchin, William (544) ...... 12-11-20
McDaniel, Ray (12) ••••..•••••• 7-26-21
McDonald, Hayward Cooper (417) 8- 6-20
McDonald, Hugh Leslie (358) •••• 11-20-19
McDonald, John Quincy (259) ••• 7-30-20
McElmell, James Grant (326) ... 12- 6-20
McFaddin, Harry H. (426) •••••• 5-19-20
McGillivray, Cornelius N. (676) •• 3-18-21
McGinnis, Casey Hall (594) ••••• 9-24-20
McGrew, Scott Duncan (820) •••. 6- 6-21
McGrew, Vernon Wesley (35) •••• 10-23-20
Mcintire, Howard S. (58) ••••••• 12-11-20
McK.enm, Roscoe S. (22) •••.•••• 2-21-21
McKenney, Daniel Hobart (415) •• 5-25-21
McK.eown, John Alexander (191) 10- 6-20
McKinnon, John M. (57) ........ 3- 1-21
McLean, Alex (633) ............ 11-18-20
McMannua, Howard George (418) 3-26-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OF RAISING

McMillan, Harold Haines (408) .11- 9-20
McMillan, Lyle Vernon (655) ••.• 9-30-20
McMillan, Robert W. (494) •••.•• 7-30-21
McMonigle, David R. (687) •••••• 5-18-21
Naber, Fred Mossman (680) ..... 3- 8-20
Naegle, John F. (260) •••••••...• 7-28-21
Nason, Henry Ward (22) .•.••.•• 9-18-20
Nealey, Percy Henry (464) ...... 7-30-20
Needham, Frank D. (268) ....... 11-29-20
Nelson, George Algeo (113) •••••• 1-13-21
Nelson, Harry (418) ••••••.•.••• 11-20-20
Nelson, Hoeter C. (30) ••••••.••• 3-29-21
Nelson, Robert (393) • • • • • • • • • • 2-18-21
Nelson, Wesley Clarence (294) ••• 2-15-19
Neterm, George Harold (30) • . • • 5-14-21
Neubarth, William W. (111) ••.•• 6- 4-21
Neuroth, Fred (388) ............ 11-23-20
Neville, Albert James (577) ••••• 1-29-21
Newby, Arthur Brazil (516) ••••• 5-25-21
Newton, Earle Webster (559) •••• 3-15-21
Nichols, Lloyd Eugene (338) .•.•• 8- 5-19
Nicholson, Elvin 0. (431) ••••.•• 8- 3-20
Nicks, Clarence W. (185) •••.••.• 6- 1-21
Nicol, Walter T. (183) .......... 1-12-21
Nicoll, Alfred Harris ( 481) • • • • . . 3-22-21
Nicolson, Norman G. (30) ...... 10-11-20
Nielsen, Ernest Conrad (180) • • • • 9-23-20
Nielsen, Lynn Hubert (204) ••••.• 12-11-20
Nielsen, Peter Andrew (277) •••.• 2- 4-21
Niver, Cecil Grant (594) ........ 11-20-20
Nixon, John Edward (401) ...... 7-21-21
Norin, William Knute (487) •••••• 9-25-20
Norrbom, Sr., Henry James (14) .10- 9-20
Norris, Edward Phipps (775) .... 10-19-19
Norstrom, Victor Dewey (392) •• 10-22-20
Norton, Charles Traver (331) •••• 5- 7-21
Nottingham, Harold E. (652) •••• 3-30-21
Nystrom, Mervyn Charles (144) •• 2-15-21
Odell, Clifford W. (273) ......... 11-27-20
Ogburn, Frank Russell (295) .... 1-19-21
Ogden, Hiram Morse (545) •••••• 3-30-21
O'hanneson, Frank (156) •••••••• 4-12-21
Ohm, Arnold Henry E. (489) .... 6- 8-20
Oldaker, Joseph Arthur (394) •••• 2-19-21
Oliphant, Henry Duncan (360) • • • 4-30-21
Oliver, Edward V. (260) •••••••• 6-18-21
Olmsted, Edward Guy (780) • • • • 2-21-20
Olsen, Arthur Daniel (166) •••••• 3-30-21
Olsen, Sr., Oliver B. (467) ••••••• 1- 6-21
Olson, Frank T. (322) ••••••••••• 2-17-08
Olson, John Norris (346) •••••••• 3-23-20
Oman, Elmer Ferdinand (471) ••• 11-16-20
O'Neill, Hugh Samuel (349) •••••• 10-16-20
Oneto, John (76) ••••••••••••••• 3-21-21
Oppel, Sr., George Earl (209) ••••• 8-18-20
Ornstein, Benjamin (335) •••••••• 5-21-21
Orth, John Martin (128) • • • • • • • • 3-10-21
Osborn, Benjamin Heald (110) • • 3-22-21
Osburn, Robert C. (236) •••••••• 3-19-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Osterman, George Dewey (241) ..• 3- 1-21
Ostrom, Otto Ferdinand (448) ••• 1-28-21
Overley, Howard Vincent (305) ... 2-8-20
Oviat~ Jud (582) ••.•••••••.••• 6-24-20
Owen, William Wallace (346) •••• 3-18-20
Owens, Lee W. (198) ............ 9-30-20
Padgett, Henry Hall (330) • . • • • . • 5-10-21
Palmer, Charles Stanton (678) ... 1-28-21
Palmer, Edgar Leland (384) •..•• 2-21-21
Palmer, William Judson (355) •.• 5-27-19
Paour, Jr., Frank (447) •••••••••. 11-19-20
Parachini, Victor Martin (175) ••. 4-22-21
Paree, Donald Higbie (363) •••••. 1-20-21
Paris, Samuel A. (462) •••••••••• 9-10-20
Parker, Alonzo Loftos (202) ••••• 5-27-20
Parker, Leonard Clifton (521) .• 4-28-21
Parker, Newell Lowe (259) •••••• 9-10-20
Parker, Noble Anslem (752) • • • • . • 5-20-20
Parkerson, Fred (626) •••••••••• 2-21-20
Parkins, Earl Henderson (296) ... 5-17-21
Parks, Charles Fredrick (79) •.•• 3-24-21
Partridge, Wallace Henry (287) •. 6-18-21
Patterson, Curtis Adrian (347) • • • 9-30-20
Patterson, George E. (30) • • • • . • . 4-30-21
Patterson, John Elwood (188) ••• 11-13-20
Pauling, Herbert Henry (375) •••• 10- 2-20
Peake, Charles Upton (670) ...... 11- 1-20
Pearce, Floyd Marion (291) •••.•• 6-16-20
Pee~ Vincent Cooper (691) •••••• 5-20-21
Pendexter, George Knowles (445) .12-18-20
Penn, William Harwood I. (241) •• 9-24-20
Perryman, Philip P. (101) •••••• 4-26-21
Peske, Otto Franklin (188) ••••••• 9- 4-20
Peterman, William H. (241) • • . • • • 5-12-21
Petersen, George Albert (79) • • . • 1-25-21
Peterson, Carl Arthur W. (5) •••. 7-18-21
Peterson, Earl Dewey (244) ...... 10-30-20
Peterson, Ernest Henry (507) •••• 12-30-19
Peterson, Floyd E. (738) ........ 12- 4-20
Petri, Otto Albert (358) ••••••••• 9-23-20
Pflueger, William (370) •••••••.• 10-22-20
Philbe~ Richard C. (457) ...... 4-26-21
Phillips, Edgar M'tlton (335) ••••• 10-21-20
Phillips, Mark H. (180) • • • • • • • • • 9-23-20
Phillips, Rae Farnum (193) •••••• 4- 8-20
Phillips, Rob Roy (166) •••••••• 10-27-20
Phillips, William B. (520) ••••••• 2-17-20
Phillipson, William Eli (487) •••• 9-25-20
Phipps, David Joseph (143) ...... 10-27-20
Physioc, Lewis Wood (467) •••••• 12- 9-19
Pidcock, William Burton (347) •.• 12- 9-20
Pierce, Roy Glenn (436) •••••••• 5-28-18
Pierce, Tobe Jay (782) •••••••••• 11- 3-20
Pierce, Walter Carmene (449) •.•• 5-26-21
Pierson, Floyd Bryan (395) • • • • • • 6-23-21
Pierson, Howard Allen (166) ••.• 12-17-19
Pike, Herbert Leslie (401) ••••.• 1-13-21
Pilgrim, Walter Joe (41) ........ 5-19-21
Pimley, William Gordon (112) ••• 8-25-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

123
DATE OF RAISING

Pincus, Charles Morris (344) • • • • 9-25-20
Pinsler, Jacob (216) ............ 6-27-21
Pitt, Eugene Felix (229) ........ 11-22-20
Plescia, Joe George (642) ........ 9-13-20
Plummer, John Lewis (450) ...... 5-17-21
Polk, Raphael John (13) ........ 11-27-20
Pond, Paul Utley (147) ......... 12-11-20
Pons, Charles Alva (622) ••.•••.• 7-12-21
Ponten, Jean Seaver (268) ...... 10-22-20
Ponzoni, Frank C. (404) ........ 9-25-20
Potter, Ernest L. (332) ••..••.••• 3-13-19
Potter, Jack Berlin (326) •.•••••• 2-28-21
Potter, Raymond T. (326) •••••• 1- 3-21
Powers, Felix W. (678) •••••••••• 5-18-21
Powis, Herbert S. (182) ......... 10-11-20
Prat~ Cecil Francis (166) •••••••• 5-25-21
Price, Hallie Edward (464) •••••• 1-15-21
Priest, Arthur Andrew (478) •••• 10-22-20
Pritchet~ Paul Martin (537) •••• 4- 1-21
Proctor, Raymond H. (191) ..... 12-22-20
Pucket~ Thomas Lyle (322) ••••• 5- 9-21
Pulling, Willis D. (351) ......... 12-27-20
Purcell, Darrell Ross (40) •••••••• 9-24-20
Purviance, Calvin S. (360) •••••• 4-22-21
Putney, Raymond E. (622) ...... 11-12-20
Pyron, Homer Hassell (339) ••••• 5- 5-21
Quadrio, Basilio M. (365) ....... 10-20-20
Quamby, George B. (673) ........ 12-29-20
Quiggle, Carl F. (3) ••••••••••••• 6-20-21
Rabinovich, Mu (344) ......... 11-27-20
Racine, Irvin Frank (352) • • • • • • 3-15-21
Ragin, David (373) ............. 3-16-21
Rains, Lawrence H. (473) ....... 11-26-20
Randall, Wilfred Lloyd (569) • • • • 2-22-20
Rappa, Pasquale (371) •••••••••• 4-29-21
Raven, Alexander (500) • • • • • • • • • 4-25-21
Raven, Stanley Hathaway (615) •• 4- 2-19
Ray, Hoyt Everett (35) ......... 3- 4-21
Reamy, Daniel Harvey (323) •••• 4- 1-21
Reed, Raymond Randolph (338) •• 9-15-20
Reber, Sr., James Clayton (427) •• 8-30-20
Reider, Francis Detar (327) •••••• 3-19-21
Reis, Charles (495) ••••••••••••• 5-31-21
Reite, Harry (744) ............. 2-12-21
Reitz, Harold John (761) •••••••• 5- 8-19
Remer, Roy W. (528) ••••••••••• 6- 7-16
Rendan4 Herbert A. (452) •••••• 5-25-21
Repp, Frederick (225) •••••••••• 10-26-20
Reuss, Christian (57) ••••••••••• 12-16-20
Reyburn, Chester Ray (417) •••• 4- 9:rt
Reyburn, Glenn W. (417) •••••••• 10- 8-20
Reynolds, Frank Howard (58) •••• 4-29-21
Reynolds, Ralph (202) • • • • • • • • • • 2- 1-21
Richards, George L. (396) ••••••• 3-29-21
Richards, Lloyd R. (44) ••••••••• 6-22-21
Richmond, Sydney Bell (274) •••• 9-23-09
Ridgeway, Edgar Lawson (802) •• 11-23-20
Ridley, Alberts. (396) •••••••••• 6-28-21
Riford, James Lawrence (633) ... 10-27-20

124
NAla AND LODGE :NO.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE Ol" RAISING

Riley, Ernest Leon (641) •.••..•. 4-28-21
Rine, Cadwell B. (268) •.•••...• 5-20-21
Ring, Gordon Euge!1e (542) ...•.• 4-22-20
Ringle, James DaVId (381) ••.... 8-28-18
Ripley, Sr., Wallace M. (26) ••.... 9 -1-20
Ritenour, Charles J. (321) ••...• 2-21-20
Rittenberg, Max Sam (458) ...•.. 5-20-20
Ritter, George Andrew (246) •... 12-28-20
Rivers, Henry Edmund (202) •.•. 11-23-20
Rix Earl Samuel (30) • . • • • • • . • • 9-25-20
Ro~ch, Harry Fredrick (68) •••.. 4-15-20
Robbins, Phil (210) •••••••••••.. 6-30-21
Roberts, Joseph Allin (297) ••..•• 4-21-21
Roberts, Josiah (467) •••••.••.•. 2-14-20
Robertson, Alexander (685) •...•• 8-11-20
Robertson, Harry Raymond (506) 4-10-20
Robinson, George Lamont (199) .. 4-12-21
Robinson, Harry C. (395) •••..•.• 3-31-21
Robinson, Joseph (733) ••••••••• 2-21-21
Robinson, Thomas Oney (541) •.. 5-31-20
Rodenback, Charles (360) ••••••. 4-16-21
Rodger, James (336) .•.••.••••.• 6-25-21
Rodgers, Eli Morgan (440) .....• 8-27-20
Rogers, Francis Henry (243) •.••. 2-12-21
Rogers, James Eugene (278) .•.•• 8- 2-20
Rohde, Walter August (454) ••..• 5-31-21
Rohrer, Joseph (117) •••..•••..•. 5-13-21
Rolfes, August Harold (749) •...• 3-17-21
Roller, Albert F. (166) .•••••..• 11- 6-20
Rollins, James Burl (594) ••••••• 3-28-21
Rose, John J. (470) ••....••.••• 6- 4-21
Rosenthal, Sidney (470) ••••....• 4-12-21
Ross, Albert F. (254) ••••..••.••• 11- 5-20
Ross, George B. (780) ..••••....• 7-25-19
Ross, Milton Grant (426) •••••••• 12-16-20
Ross, Milton Irving (44) ••••••.• 3-23-21
Ross, Roland Spirer (424) •..•••• 3-29-20
Rothang, George Joseph (57) ..•• 4-21-21
Rough, Hannibal (345) •.••.••.• 12- 3-20
Rowland, David V. (613) •••••.•• 6-11-21
Rudee, Wilbur A. (461) ••••••..•• 7-29-20
Ruedy, Albert Emil (375) •••••••• 4-16-20
Rummel, Charles Horace (544) • • • 6-25-21
Rummelsburg, Arthur H. (194) •• 7-22-19
Rummelsburg, Gerson E. (57) •.•• 8- 2-21
Runston, Theodore Vernon (382) .12-11-20
Runyan, Leland Joel (486) ••••.• 7- 6-21
Rush, Edward Herman (468) ••.• 6-28-21
Russell, Edgar Allyn (726) ••.••• 2-26-20
Russell, Edward Gordon (422) ••• 4-23-21
Russell, Elbridge F. (215) ••••••• 5-14-21
Russell, Elwood John (382) . . • • • • 2-28-21
Russell, Thomas Nathan (598) ... 9-25-20
Sailor, Edward Percy (199) •••••• 12-22-20
Sal1ingere, Frank Whittier (448) .11-12-20
Sahnons, Leslie (507) ••••..••••• 1- 8-21
Salomon, Arthur (344) •••••••••• 2-16-21
Samuel, Joseph (344) ••••••••••• 6-15-21
Samuels, Harry (470) .....•.•••• 5-12-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Samuelsen, Arthur Julius (562) •• 6-29-19
Sanborn, Lynn Darrell (542) •.•• 9-24-18
Sanger, Samuel Avery (57) •...•. 12-14-20
Sargent, John Hudson (194) .•... 2-22-21
Sargenti, Albert J. (302) ••...••• 10-14-20
Sarver, Harry E. (322) •.•.••.•.. 6-22-21
Sass, Emil William (554) •.•••••• 9-15-20
Saunders, Lloyd Miles (327) ...• 8-12-20
Savage, Charles M. (308) ••••••.• S-26-21
Saylin, Joseph (369) •••••....••• 11-30-20
Sayre, Victor B. (662) •..•••...•• 11-22-19
Schaal, Rudolph Walter (494) .••• 4-25-21
Scballert, Frank R. (607) •••.•••• 2-21-21
Schapiro, Esmond (344) •••••••• 9-15-20
Scheline, Llo~d Elof (294) •••.•.• 10-20-20
Scheper, Louis P. (397) ••.....•• 11-19-20
Schepler, Frank Hanson (650) .••• 4-17-18
Scherwitz, Albert Edward (35) • . 1- 8-21
Schmid, Arthur A. (557) ••••••.• 11- S-17
Schmidt, Adolph Ernest (1) •.•.•• 11-18-20
Schmidt, Curtis Alfred (506) ...• 9-25-20
Schmidt, Herman Andrew (113) •. 4-30-21
Schmidt, Herman Henry (455) ..• 3-22-21
Schnauss, Edwin K. (40) •....••• 4-15-21
Schneider, Jr., Fred Robert (471) • 2-22-21
Schneider, William R. (268) ••.••• 7-12-21
Schoonover, Thomas K. (375) •••• 11-29-20
Schroeder, Arthur Henry (461) •• 6-30-21
Schumacher, John (278) ••••.••• 2-25-21
Schwarzmann, Rudolph A. (38) •. 7- 9-21
Scott, Floyd Foster (336) ••..•••• 11-27-20
Searight, Fritz Harvey (188) ..•. 11-26-20
Seibert, Walter August (10) .••••• 7-25-21
Selleck, Milton G. (718) •••••..•• 4- S-21
Sellick, Harold Olney (87) •••••• 3- S-21
Selling, Holger Chris (247) ••••.• 1-21-21
Sellinger, Benjamin H. (462) •.•• 6-18-20
Selwyn, Clarence M. (657) •..••• 9-29-20
Settlemire, Dock A. (450) •••••••• 4-29-21
Sevy, Clare L. (268) •••••••••••• 11-24-20
Seward, Lloyd Lester (206) ..•••• 2-19-21
Shallcross, Charles W. (462) ••••• 10-29-20
Shapiro, Leo Harry (461) ••.••••• 9-16-20
Sharp, George Freeman (366) •..• 5-12-21
Shaver, George W. (537) ••.••.•• 3- 6-20
Shay, Weston Walter (202) •.••.• 10-30-20
Shecklen, George F. (191) ••..•••• 4-16-20
Shedd, Carl Henry (300) • • • • • • • • 6-18-21
Shepherd, Dean Draper (689) .•. 7- 8-21
Shepherd, Frank Leslie (466) .•.. 11-24-20
Sherman, Clyde Eugene (355) •••• 10-28-20
Sherrill, Evan M. (642) •••.•..• 9-23-19
Sherwood, Nelson W. (465) ...... 6-25-21
Shiells, James Francis (3 79) • . • • • • 4-13-21
Shore, Marion Chester (303) • • • • • 1- 6-21
Shorr, David (335) ••••••.•••••• 6-18-21
Short, Stanley R. (202) •••••••••• 9-13-20
Short, William H (327) • • • • • • • • • • 3-31-21
Shoulberg, Roy (495) •••••. • .•. 1-25-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE 01!' RAISING

Shrode, Algie (SOS) .••••.••••••• 2-25-18
Shultz, Walter Franklin (486) ..•• 7- 6-21
Sievers, Otto (201) . • • • . . • • . . . • . • 6-11-21
Silberberg, Arthur G. (470) ••.... 11- 9-20
Sills, John Berton (785) ••••...•• 2-14-20
Simank, Ben Otto (666) •••••••.. 3-19-20
Simonds, Jr., Ulysses S. (400) ..•. 3-12-21
Simpson, George J. (388) ••...... 10-30-20
Simpson, James David (198) ..•• 4-25-21
Simpson, William Elder (392) . . . . 2-28-21
Simpson, William M. (20) .•..•.• 5-14-21
Sinclair, Donald H. (700) •.•••... 3-26-20
Singleton, Willard B. (228) •..... 9-16-20
Sirkes, Arthur Asa (358) .•••.... 12-15-20
Skeith, George S. (594) ••••...... 3- 7-21
Slavin, Barney (394) ••••........ S-21-21
Slye, Clarke Edwin (319) •.....•. 1-27-21
Small, Arthur Henry (181) •....• 6- S-21
Small, Charles Henry (384) ...... 1-14-21
Smith, Addison Clayton (480) ..•• 3-23-21
Smith, Albert F. (449) ......••.. 9-21-20
Smith, Albert L. (379) ••...•...•• 12-15-20
Smith, Albert W. (547) •.•.••...• 3-28-21
Smith, Charles Lincoln (22) •...•• 2-28-21
Smith, Clifton, S. (729) ........• 3-16-21
Smith, Clyde Lewis (366) •.••..•• 3-17-21
Smith, Emil John (144) ........• 6-21-21
Smith, Guy Leland (287) . • . . . . . . 1- 8-21
Smith, Lester Charles (2) ••.....• 5- 4-21
Smith, Lon Vest (466) ....•..... 11-30-20
Smith, Otto (479) .••••.... .... . 3- 7-21
Smith, Ray B. (343) .•• •....... . 9-26-18
Smith, Thomas Thornton (147) .. 10-25-20
Smith, Wayne Roe (368) ..•...•• 8- 3-20
Smith, William L. (346) ....•• •• • 5- 5-21
Snell, Kenneth Alfred (3 70) ...•. 10- 4-20
Snyder, Elmer (366) ............ 10- 7-20
Snyder, William Cloyd (367) ...• 12-18- 20
Sorensen, Soren Peter (393) ..... 12- 6-20
Sorenson, William P. (547) ...... 9-25-20
Soto, Earle (41) ••.............. 10- 7-20
Sparey Chester A. (476) .......• 4-28-21
Spatafore, Anthony J. (260) •.•.• 11-12-20
Spaulding, Henry H. (615) ••.... 5-25-21
Spear, Frank W. (387) ....•..... 5-13-21
Speer, Jr., Grant Gould (392) .•.. 12- 4-20
Spiker, Wesley M. (405) ••••...•• 3-24-21
Sproles, Harris B. (204) ... ....• • 11-20-20
Spuller, Jr., Louis J. (471) .•...•• 7-12-21
Spunn, Joseph Morris (349) ....•• 11-27-20
Spurr, Gilbert D. (8) •....•••••.. 7-18-21
Stagner, Lloyd Byron (113) ....•• 3-12-21
Staines, Robert Henry (506) ...•• 4-22-20
Stallard, Richard W. (349) •••••• 11-27-20
Stanford, William C. (339) ..•••. 10- 1-20
Stannard, Charles W. (363) •..•.. 9-11-20
Starkey, Harold B. (35) •.••..•.• 2- 1-21
Stam, George E. (375) •..•.....• 9-25-20
Stasand, George W. (599) •.•••••. 3-21-21
Stead, Arthur John (672) ..•.•.•• 6-21-21

NAME AND LODGE NO.

125
DATE 01!' RAISING

Stearns, Olof Henry (481) .•..•.• 9-13-20
Steele, Edward L. (206) •...••.. 3-16-21
Steele, William Gury (659) •••..• 10-28-20
Steiner, Elmer L. (406) •••••.... 5-20-21
Steinholl, Harvey T. (625) ••..•. 10-11-20
Stelzner, Robert H. (382) .••..•.• 4-15-20
Stephen, Wallace A. (455) •••..•• 10- 2-20
Stephens, William (1) .•••••..•• 8- 7-20
Stephens, William R. (229) •...•• 4- 9-21
Stephens, Sr., William W. (40) ••• 12-17-20
Stephenson, Henry A. (464) •••.•• S-21-20
Stewart, Elmer F. (349) ..••••.•• 10- 9-20
Stewart, John Calvin (332) •.•... 11-24-20
Stickler, Carl W. (567) • • . . • • . . . . 1-29-21
Stilliens, Miley A. (424) •.. ....•• S-20-21
Stirling, Thomas J. (14) •...••••• 10-23-20
Stitt, Donald G. (291) •••••..•.• 3-22-17
Stone, John W. (79) ..•••.••.••. 5-26-21
Stone, Walter Arthur (461) •••.•. 10-21-20
Stout, Worrell E. (22) •••••••••• 5-28-21
Stretch, John Wesley (319) • . . . . • 1-25-21
Striegler, Richmond H. (575) ..•• 9-10-20
Strong, Addison Graves (166) •••• 6-26-20
Strong, Joseph Cosmos (455) •••• 11-30-20
Struven, Christian T. (260) ••..•• 3-30-21
Struven, John (180) •.•••••••••• 1- 4-21
Sudano, Raymond (406) ••••.•.• 5-12-21
Sumner, Frederick L. (356) •.•.•• 7-16-20
Sund, Alfred N. (180) ..••••.•••. 11-11-20
Sutton, Everett M. (397) •••••••• 5-19-21
Swart, Claud (168) .•..••••.••.. 5-10-21
Sweasy, Herman V. (587) ...•..•. 12-28-20
Sweet, Willis Howard (392) •••••• 9-25-20
Symons, Spencer W. (194) .••••.• 2-25-20
Tafejian, Samuel T. (242) ••••... 7- 9-21
Talbott, Guy Homer (149) •...•. 11- 4-19
Tatman, Floyd Archie (106) •.... 4- 2-21
Taucher, Albert (405) ..•. • ..... 4-30-21
Taylor, Howard Otto (673) •..... 5- 6-21
Taylor, James Duncan (226) •... 3-26-21
Taylor, Lawrence F. (366) •..... 3- 9-21
Taylor, Perry Curtis (242) •....• 5-10-21
Taylor, Rowan Hansel (21) • . •..• 10-22-20
Teaney, Victor R. (308) • .•. .. ... 5-17-21
Teel, Adrian Gothus (268) ...... 10-29-20
Templeton, William J. (277) ...•. 3-21-21
Tennebaum, Donald A. (461) .... 2-24-21
Tepel, Alvin Christian (581) •.•.. 10- 2-20
Terass, John Milford (42) .•....• 6-17-21
Terry, Frederick P. (215) ........ 7- 8-21
Thayer, Harrison M. (240) •..•.. 6- 4-21
Thee, Earl John (445) ••••••.•.•• 7-24-20
Theobald, Alfred K. (667) ....•.. 10- 8-19
Theobald, Clarence W. (561) ..•• 2-19-21
Thiel, James Henry (206) •••..•• 12-23-20
l'hiele, Arthur Gustof (247) •.•.•• 6- 3-21
Thies, Walter Clinton (360) ..••• 5-14-21
Thompsooi, Charles E. (25) ••••.• 11-20-20
Thompson, Clarence E. (450) .••• 7-15-20
Thompson, Marion Estus (643) •• 6-23-21

126
NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OF aAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP llAISilfO

(633) ••.•• 2-14-21
Thomps on, Robert Joseph {202) .• 11-20-20 Walls, George Newton
•.•.• 2- 7-19
(S64)
Rienzi
Frank
Walrath,
7-20
8•
•
{4SS)
Thomps on, William John
..•• 8-29-19
{399)
Howard
Edwin
Walter,
4-27-21
•
•
•.
{633)
Thomsen , Martin Peter
Walters, Sanderson E. (416) •.••• S- 6-19
Thornbu rgh, Glenn A. (796) .•• • • 4-28-21
Walthall, Samuel F. {491) ..••.•• 4-29-21
Thomess , Ben Martin (742) ....• 3-2S-21
Eugene (199) •• 9-21-20
Thurston , Forrest D. {37S) •• . .. • 3-12-20 Wambol d, Ralph
Waring, Albert (431) ••.•••.• • •• 10-26-20
Tickner, Beverly L. {244) •••. • •• 6- 9-21
Warner, Jack Lewis (S06) •. • ...• 7-lS-20
Tilden, Jr., Maron S. {494) • •. .• • 2-26-21
{8) •••.••.• ••• 12- 4-20
Ting, Darwin M. (32S) . • •• • . • • . . 12-16-20 Warren, Albert C. (196) ••..•.•• 3- 2-21
Tippens, Earl C. (S63) • •.•.•• . .. 10-26-20 Washbur n, Orville (426) ..•..••• 5-19-20
Watson, George R.
Todd, Joseph Zook (61) •• ••. • .• 11-12-17
Waugh, Arthur F. {230) •••.••.• • 2- 7-21
Tomlinson, Francis C. (323) •. • •• 7-30-21
(344) ..... .. . 11-24-20
Toor, Elliot {136) ••••••• •.•..•• 9-30-19 Wayne, Haiman L.Earl (103) •.•.. 12- 8-20
Towers, George {486) ••..••. • •• 2- 8-21 Webber, Herbert J. (217) •••••••• 6-29-21
Webster, George
Townsen d, Harry L. {16) • • •. •• • 3-23-21
W. (6SO) .. . • • • 6- 9-20
Trainer, Ralph E. (608) • .. ... .•• S-31-20 Wedding, William
F. (477) • . .. 11- 8-20
Tramme ll, George W. {327) • ...•• 4-29-20 Weidemeyer, Robert
Weill, Laurence I. (466) •.•• • .. •• 4-19-21
Traver, Leslie Jay (497) .. • . .• .• 4-27-21
Weis, Paul Ludwig (348) .•..•••• 4- 6-21
Trulove, James D. (421) . •••..• • 1-20-21
...... . .. .. . 2-19-21
Truman , Temple V. {324) ..•...• 12- 9-20 Weisberg, Ben (33S) (612) ••.•• 2-14-21
Tuck, Arthur Robert (S07) ..•. • • 7-29-19 Wells, Byron Erner.ion
H. (479) ...•••.• 10-29-20
Tune, Lee Andrew {387) •. • .•• • .. 11-27-20 Wells, Leonard H. (339) • •••• ••• 7-21-21
Welton, Harold
Turner, Porter Eugene (486) • • •• 3-29-21
k A. (61) .•.••• 8-20-20
Turner, Thomas R. (SS8) ••••. . .• 11-12-20 Wemmer, Frederic
(746) •••••• 5-31-21
William
Alvin
Wendt,
12-21-20
.•
•
••..
(394)
Glenn
Albert
Tuttle,
........ .... . .. 3-26-21
(418)
Fred
West,
6-2S-21
.•
•
•
.
.
•
(204)
E.
Bert
od,
Underwo
Arthur I. {397) •.•••• 11-30-20
Underwo od, Herbert A. (S81) • • •• 10-16-20 Westbrook,
J . (6S7) . • ••••. • •• 1-28-21
Walter
Wester,
1-26-21
••••••
(392)
0.
Unholtz, Leonard
M. (392) •..•• . •. 8-lS-21
Albert
Weston,
2-26-21
....
..
......
(194)
Upton, Hubert
W. {139) ..•.•. 5-26-21
Arthur
l,
Westpha
6-30-20
•
•
•
•
.
.
•
•
•
•
(169)
Valdsmar, Oscar
{120) ••••• . •• 1-29-21
L.
d
Raymon
Weyl,
·7-20
7••.•
(9)
B.
Ralph
Van Courtrig ht,
(424) •.• • .•• 1- 4-21
Asher
Levi
Wheeler,
9-14-20
.••
•
.
•
(113)
P.
Van Deren, Frank
(S7) • ..• 3-10-21
Edwin
Clyde
k,
Wheeloc
1-21
6..•
.
•
.
••
Vandermey, Jan C. (S34)
•••••• 5- 7-21
{46S)
W.
Francis
,
Whipple
6-20
11.......
Van Dusen, Earl L. (378)
.••• 3-16-21
•••••.••
(166)
Gordon
White,
6-22-21
.•
•
•.
..
Van Ess, Herman S. {614)
King (166) •••••••• 11-20-20
Van F1eet, John R. (746) . ••. • •• • 8-27-20 White, John Wade (470) ••••• •• • 2- 1-21
Van Wye, G&il H. (324) ..• •• .••• 9-16-20 White, Peter
White, William Alfred (478) •••• 6-25-21
Varney, Erwin Gilbert (487) •• ..• 4-26-21
Ely Locke {442) •••• 6-16-21
Vasbinder, David L. (419) • • •.• • . 2-lS-21 Whitehead, Frank Lowden (426) • 8- 4-20
Vaughn, Walker E. (362) •• • •..•• 11-16-20 Whittekin,
Whitten, Percy E. (268) •••• • • • • S-11-21
Vickers, William T. (40S) • •. . .. •• 7-19-21
Wiberg, Joseph E. (106) •••••••• • 3-18-21
Viebrock, Francis M. (19) • • •••.• S-28-21
Wible, Earl (466) •••••••• •••••• 4-19-21
Villette, Valentine (188) •• •••• .. • 2- S-13
Wibray, Thomas Lee (426) •••••• 11-17-20
Vincent, Harlan J. (180) •• • .•• . • 3- 9-21
Wilber, Joshua A. (Sl8) •• • .••••• 10-19-20
Von Dack, Leslie R. (460) •.••••• 5-23-21
Albert (4S8) •••••• 7-15-20
Voorheis, Henry C. (486) •. • . • ••• 9-29-20 Wilde, Walter
F. {32S) • • .•••.• 9-15-20
Vossler, Edward F. (612) •• • •.•.. 12- 7-20 Wilken, Charles
Wilkie, Thomas B. (454) ...... . . 12-14-20
Votzel, Louis Herman (3S) ••• • ••• 4- 9-21
Wilkins, Raymon d G. (399) • . •. .• 6-16-20
Vroom, Hubert Harold (296) ••.• 7-13-21
n, Howard D. (469) • .••. 10-13-20
Wilkinso
2-10-21
•••.•
(S70)
Janney
Wade, Charles
Frank E. (80) .•..•. • .•. 10-30-20
Willard,
12-21-20
••
••
••
•
(202)
Wages, Roy Ciillord
P. (672) ........ . 9- 8-20
Harold
Willats,
8-21
1•..•.
•
•••
Wagner, Ralph A. (626)
•••••••• •••• 7-18-21
Wainwri ght, John L. (322) ••• • •• 9- 9-20 Willia, Fred S. (502)
Williams, Albert (183) ........ .. 3- 8-21
Waitham , Joseph D. (3) ••••• •• .. 1-24-21
Williams, Cecil (487) •••••••• ••• 4-26-21
Walen, Leonard C. (215) • • . • • • • • 5-13-21
Williams, David A. (494) • • •••••• 12-27-20
4-25-18
•••.••
(99)
Herman
Fred
Walker,
, Gerald (726) •••••••• •• 2- 6-21
Wliliams
12-lS-20
•
••••.•.•
(68)
R.
Willard
Walker,
, Jr., Griffith J. (389) ••• 6-15-21
Williams
3-30-20
.••••
(166)
e
Wall, Arvid Florentin
(434) • • •••••• 2- 2-21
Wallaoe, Don C. (S94) •••••• • •• • 10-29-:.ZO Williams, Myron V.
(652) •••••••• 4-28-21
Wallick, Guy Philip (346) ••••••• 9-15-20 Williams, Philip R.

Jl'AlQ AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Williams, Sydney H . (22) .••••.• 10- 2-20
W~liams, Wright 0. (477) •. . .•• S- S-21
W~on, Heston L. (61S) •••••.•• 3- 7-21
12- 9-20
Wilson, Homer Cyrus (366)
W~n, Orval A. (215) •••• : : : : : : 12-18-20
~g:n, Reuben (461) ........ ... 4-21-21
. n, Walter J. L. (21) •••.•••• 1-17-21
W~n, W~bber Claire (279) •••.• 7-30-20
W!150~, William A. (299) .•••.••• S-18-21
W!11bigler, Ernest N. (SOS) •• • •.• 2-19-21
W~chester, Warren W. {40S) •• • • 3-23-21
~!Dte~d I:ouis H. (388) •••••.•• • 9-27-20
!5f. dington Lee (1) •••••••• 3-10-20
W!se, Clarence E. (S13) .. . ...... 11- 4-20
WJSe, Dell Ellswort h (761) •••••• 4-19-21
W!se, Nathan David (70) •••••••. 9- 2-20
~1f1art, George R. (337) •••••••• 6-22-21
o f, Max (120) .•••••• • ••••••.• 10-23-20
Wood, Burris G. (349) •••••••. •• 6-28-21
Wood, Clarence L. (603) •..••.•• 1- 3-21
Wood, James Vincent (331) •• • ••• 6-23-21
Wood, John Lu Rel {481) ........ S-26-21
Wood, Stearns Wilbur (ISO) • • ••• 11-21-17
Woodhouse, Harley (3S8) •••••.. 3-26-21

NAla; AND LODGE NO.

127
DATE OF RAlSINO

Woodley
ods • Willia'm E · (360) • . •••. 11-15-20
W
W o l • Robert S. (33) ••..• • •••• S-26-20
W ooir:, Glenn M. (SOS) •••••• • . 6-16-21
Wilbur S. (S67) •..••. 12-30-20
World
0
.r h' aleb W. (169) .••.••.• •. S- S-21
W r~g t, C~arner Leon (418) •.• , .12-29-2 0
Wr!ght, M~ard Hasper (220) • • • • 4-23-21
Wngley, Winfield J. (79) ••••..•. 11-18-20
Yank, Errol Alton (2S4) •••.•••• 6-10-21
Yorke, Clarence J. (471) •••••••• 6- 4-21
Yost, Leonard L. (S37) •• •••••••• 1- 6-20
Young, Vernon D. (247) •••••••• 9_2s_ 20
Young, Wal~e~ W. (351) •••••••• _11 _29_20
Zandner , W~m E. (268) ••••.•• S-27-21
Zarcone, William Penn {210) • • . • 9-30-20
Ze~, Henry Phillip (346) •.••••• • 7-16-21
~55! Philip Edward {406) ...••. 11-ls-20
Z~tlin, Robert Morris (445) ••• • • J-28-21
Z!egler, Robert E. (368) ••••••.. 6- 1-20
Zimmerm an, Lloyd J. (469) ••.••• 1- 8-21
Zuckerman, Henry L. {33S) ••.•• • S-26-21
Zu~walt, Elmo Russell (269) •.•. 10- S-20
ZWlllge, Oscar Cebrean (3 77) •• • •• 11-27-20

c'

128

129

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER

passing that the Assistant Grand Lecturers and myself are in complete accord
not only with respect to the wording, but also to the mechanics of the Ritual'.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
As the restless sands of time pursue their relentless course through the
hour-glass of life, we come once again to the time of accounting for the
happenings of the year late past.
It has been a year of decisions; matters of greatest concern have been
dealt with by this Ritual Committee, and the final disposition of some has
required diligent study and prayerful deliberation on the part of your Grand
Lecturer. In all decisions of this nature, the best interests of our order has
been my sole consideration, and the propriety of my acts is herewith commended to you, the Brethren of the Grand Lodge.
The year has also been one of great happiness for me, and it is with a
feeling of deep pride and humility that I now stand before you, to render
an account of my stewardship as your Grand Lecturer.
Section 156, paragraph fourth of the California Masonic Code sets forth
the duties of the Grand Lecturer, one of which is: "to render to Grand Lodge
at each Annual Communication a full and detailed account of his services
during the year, and to set forth therein a report of ~e con~i~o~ of the
Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction." In order to be qmte expliot m every
detail I shall categorize this report, but before so doing, permit me a moment
in whlch to pay tribute to the memory of a treasured friend: the late Elbert
W. ""Bill" Davis, Past Grand Lecturer, who passed from this earthly life on
Friday, August 6, 1971. Brother Bill was a truly good man; a ~on. of
very great stature, he was endowed with a depth of understanding which
transcended the comprehension of all but the most astute observer. He was
indeed a true friend of this Ritual Committee, and to his memory is lovingly
dedicated this report.
RITUAL

It is my happy privilege to report that the Ritual of this Grand Jurisdiction continues to be the finest anywhere in the World. Great strides have
been made this year in the continuing quest of total uniformity in the Ritual.
Much of the credit for these gains must necessarily be given the hard working
Inspectors and Assistant Grand Lecturers who have all given of their time
far in excess of the mere call of duty. There exists among this dedicated
group, a marvelous spirit of cooperation which s:rike~ a very f~vorable
impression in the minds of the Lodge Officers and inspires them with that
noble spirit or contention, of who best can work and best agr~.
The Ritual Committee has studied the Ritual very closely this year, and
in some cases minor changes have been effected in the mechanics of the
work in order to have it remain as it was handed down from time immemorial.
The Ritual Committee met twice this year, first at Palm Springs where the
esoteric work of the three degrees was completely reviewed. The second
meeting in Long Beach dealt mainly with matters of administration. Both of
these meetings were greatly productive, and it is noteworthy to mention in

During the Spring months the Inspectors Conferences were held as
follows:
Division 1-At Santa Rosa, April 16, 17 18 Conducted by Worshipful Bertram C. vonKonsky, Assistant Grand ~lurer Division 1.
Division 2-At Lake Tahoe, June 18, 19, 20 Conducted by Worshipful Edward E. Seagle, Assistant Grand Lectur~r, Division 2.
. Division 3 -At Los Gatos, March 26, 27, 28, Conducted by Worshipful Ulysses G. Patropulos, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 3.
Division ~-At Twain Harte, June 4, 5, 6, Conducted by Worshipful
Wallace H. Fiske, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 4.
Division 5 -At Twin Peaks, May 14, 15, 16, Conducted by Worshipful George W. Perkins, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 5.
• Division 6-At Pomona, February 26, 27, 28, Conducted by Worshipful Ernest M. Newton, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 6.
At each of these Conferences, the Brethren were greatly inspired by the
presence and counselling of the Grand Master and his Elective Line Officers
and they were further encouraged by the words of the Deputy Grand Maste;
as he shared with them, his thoughts and plans for the coming year. The
Ritual and lectures of the three degrees were very ably demonstrated by
the Inspectors of the various Divisions, and it was most gratifying to obse~ve the efforts of these Inspectors as they strive for perfection in the
Ritual. They are truly a dedicated group, and their common interest is the
great !ove ~hi?i they all share for their work in Masonry; that of teaching
the Ritual m its purest form, thus assuring a close uniformity of the work
throughout the entire Jurisdiction.
Schools of instruction for the Inspectors were held at regular intervals
by the Assistant Grand Lecturers, and during the year the Inspectors held
an average of nine schools per year for the Officers of their individual Districts. In some cases, the Inspectors held individual schools of instruction
when deemed necessary to the proper qualification of Lodge Officers.
Culminating the year's activities of the Ritual Committee the Grand
Lecturer's School of Instruction for the Inspectors will be held tn this auditorium on Saturday following the close of Grand Lodge. At this school, legislation enacted at this Communication will be discussed1 and the Ritual of
the three degrees will be exemplified by the Inspectors of the several Masonic
Districts.
Two changes occurred within the Ritual Committee this year. Following
the resignation of Worshipful William A. "Lon" Fishback in January this
year, Grand Master Huebner appointed Worshipful George W. Perkins Assistant Grand Lecturer in Division Five. Effective September 1 1971 Worshipful Burton 0. Young was appointed to succeed Worshipfui Beri:am C.
vonKonsk.y as Assistant Grand Lecturer of Division One. Brother vonKonsky

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

retire was prompted
had served in this capacity since 1966, and his decision to
ss. All ~e~bers
by his desire to devote additional time to his family and busine
ul appreciation to
of the Ritual Committee join with me in extending gratef
To the two new
tion.
these two Brothers who served with honor and distinc
! we. exten~ a
Young
members of the Ritual Committee, Brothers Perkins and
m serVIce
ui~g
contin
are
who
very hearty welcome, and to the "Old Timers"
to duty.
on
devoti
and
y
loyalt
your
on this Committee, we say thank you for
INSPECTORAL CORPS

a wide arena,
All Organizations such as ours, whose activities span s~c_h
and capa?le
willmg
of
group
a
must necessarily have within their midsts,
those activby
ted
genera
is
which
workers to bear the tremendous work load
a h~rd~r
and
tors,
Inspec
called
are
rs
ities. Within our organization, these worke
within
ed
!?elud
f?und.
be
never
could
men
working, more dedicated group of
Lodge
for
~~on
mstru
of
ls
Schoo
are:
duties
the scope of the Inspectors
rs
Office
.of
visi?n
Super
rs;
Office
Lodge
ying
qualif
Officers· examining and
cou?~s;
Coach~; coordinating Grand Lodge activities within theg Distnc
as arbitrator m
selling with the Masters and Lodge Officers, and servin
areas of mis-understanding.
challenged by
The knowledge and wisdom of the Inspector is frequently
are demon~trated
problems of greatest magnitude, but their capabilities
~e knottiest of
time and again in their ability to seek out 5?lutio~s for even
p~t !ear by
this
problems. Examples of this are to be found m actmns taken
ct 578.
Distn
ff,
Bottor
m
Inspectors such as Lee Strong 1 District 608. Willia
d
~dwar
25?.
ct
Distri
,
Robert McDonald, District 120. Clayton Shane
504.
ct
D1stn
,
Bacon
Jim
•.
6.07
Lohmeyer, District 322. Rod Pillow, District
These Inspectors
Merle Coon District 639 and Jim Wellet, District 534.
~ts this year,
Distri
their
within
ms
proble
have each dealt with vei;. grave
ce personal
sacnn
to
ness
willing
their
for
ended
and they are all to be comm
.
Craft.
regard in pursuit of harmony and understanding within the
that of previous
The turnover rate for Inspectors this year is slightly above
satisfac~on
and
joy
the
ing
wledg
years. Thirty-seven of our Inspectors, ackno
~tep aside
to
fit
s~n
have
Corps
of serving many years in the Inspectoral
ence. We
experi
mg
reward
this
share
to
and permit others the opportunity
for the
on
endati
comm
t
highes
our
extend
and
wish them all the very best,
Brothers as Ted
years of devoted service so freely given; particularly .such
Broth~rs E. ~lo!d
Siems, District 614, retiring after twenty years of service:
Smi~h, ~istnct
Hanson, District 150, John Ferguson, District 622 and Ray
n,
Carlto Di~t~ict 607,
550 all with seventeen years service. Brothers Rewell
retinng after
ct
Wa~ers Shugart District 431 and Lewis Field, Distri h63 7, all
'th
.~Y others
WI
er
~oget
'
to the Corps. These Brothers,
fifteen years service
of all
iation
apprec
e
smcer
very
have served faithfully and well, and the
all.
them
to
ed
California Masons is hereby extend

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

131

LODGE ACTIVITIES

ed some very
A survey of the Inspectors Annual report forms has disclos
tors indicate
Inspec
the
of
r
numbe
distressing facts: Reports from a great
of memloss
ance,
attend
of
lack
ial,
mater
r
difficulty in obtaining new Office
and
deaths
dues,
of
t
aymen
non-p
for
sion
suspen
ers,
transf
bership due to
and
s
degree
the
for
ations
<limits. Their comments suggest that declining applic
an attitude of inlack of Ritual work pre-disposes some Lodge Officers to
ers who in turn
memb
Lodge
the
to
itted
difference, and this attitude is transm
ance.
attend
r
regula
in
st
intere
lose
rather sharply
In other areas we find the average age of members rising
to apply fo;
men
er
with very little or no interest on the part of young
finding it
are
s
Lodge
these
of
r
membership in our Lodges. A great numbe
in some
and
s,
station
rs
Office
the
fill
to
necessary to rely on Past Masters
Line.
the
to
return
to
ant
reluct
are
rs
Maste
extreme instances, the Past
continues
The great number of years required to go through the chairs
ers from
Broth
ed
qualifi
to be a factor in discouraging young and properly
nce of
incide
high
the
for
s
reason
entering the Line, and is also one of the
hasize
re-emp
would
I
this
to
ve
Relati
rs.
drop-out among the lesser line Office
g
startin
of
policy
the
adopt
s
Lodge
ituent
Const
the suggestion that the
s
station
lower
the
their progressive line no lower than the Senior Deacon, with
this
that
ced
convin
am
I
being filled strictly on a one-year appointive basis.
attracting qualified
policy would not only have the immediate effect of
e Master, but
becom
to
ary
necess
time
short
Brothers to serve the relatively
Stations by
tive
appoin
or
lower,
the
of
filling
the
would also make easier
rs.
Office
these
of
requiring only a one-year commitment on the part
and the
ittee,
Comm
Ritual
The Grand Lodge Elective Line Officers, the
Lodges.
the
face
which
ms
proble
Inspectors are all acutely aware of these
inn~
that
agreed
lly
genera
most
is
It
t.
sough
Solutions are being diligently
are
s
Lodge
the
and
ed,
requir
tly
urgen
is
ship
leader
vative and dedicated
le.
possib
urged to seek out this type of leadership wherever
greater part of
A more pleasant side of these reports indicates that the
Masonry is
that
and
,
unities
comm
our Lodges are filling the needs of their
ed rereceiv
been
have
s
report
raging
encou
advancing in most areas. Very
ls,
Schoo
as, Public
garding Lodge participation in Grand Lodge Programs such
ment.
Endow
s
Home
Constitution Observance, Youth Orders and Masonic
Grand Lodge
Further information in this regard will be given by those
ed.
involv
ly
Committees direct
n, this year saw
As to the Masonic Homes Endowment fund participatio
one million
ching
approa
total
the
ed,
record
ever
bution
the greatest total contri
this magof
proud
dollars. Each of us as California Masons may be very
.
nificient achievement
HAWA IIAN MASON RY

by Worshipful
Your Grand Lecturer was very ably represented this year
of instruction
s
school
held
and
ii
Hawa
to
d
travele
who
lllysses G. Patropulos
of the ten
en
Brethr
on each of the Islands for the Inspectors, Officers and

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hawaiian Lodges. Brother "Use" was very thorough in his cover~ge of. the
Ritual and Lectures of the three degrees, and much was accomplis?e<l in a
very comprehensive review of the esoteric portions of the work. I am informed
by Brother Patropulos that the quality of the Ri~u.al in the SOth S~te
continues at a very high level, and that the true spmt of Masonry ~ves
among the Brethren of the Island Lodges. Earlier in the year Brother W~lli~m
Foster found it necessary to resign his appointment as Inspector of Distnct
382 and Brother Alexander Bell was appointed the newest Island Inspector.
Brother Bell together with Brothers McAllister and Pringle, now represent
the hard wo;king and dedicate<! Inspectoral Corps in the Hawaiian Islands.
CEREMoNms
The nee<l for a suitable Ceremony for the removal of Cornerstones was
recognize<! by Grand Master MacPhee in 1970. His recommendation that ~e
Ritual Committee prepare such a Ceremony was approve<! at last years
Annual Communication and the Ritual Committee set about the task of
authoring a Ceremony which would be both beautiful and m~ningf~l. ?ur
purpose has been accomplishe<l and the results are now to be 1udged in time
and performance.
.
On April 2nd this year, the Grand Master was called upon. to offiCiate
at the mortgage burning of the Trona Masonic Temple. On finding that no
Grand Lodge Ceremony was available for this purpose~ he requested .the
Grand Lecturer to prepare a ceremony which would be fitting to the occasion.
The eloquently beautiful ceremony which Brother Ralp~ Head prepared f?r
the mortgage burning of the California Masonic Memon~ T~pl~ was s~ll
in the memory of your Grand Lecturer, and af~er reviewmg .this impressive
work it was determined that an adaptation of It would provide a ceremony
which would be suitable in every respect. With the consent of Brother Head,
your Grand Lecturer undertook the task of adapting this ceremony for use
in the constituent Lodges. To what degree we have been ~u.ccessful can best
be judged by those who have seen it performed, and we JOI? Grand Master
Huebner in recommending the adoption of the mortgage burmng ceremony by
this Grand Lodge.
·
.
your Grand Officers performed the cornerstone ceremo?y fifteen times
during the year, and at each, it was quite apparent that this a:remony was
written for the purpose of laying an actual cornerstone, functio~ to the
erection of a building. In our present day situation however, practically all
cornerstones laid by this Grand Lodge are plaques which are attached to an
already completed structure.
For this reason I would recommend that a committ~ be aPp<>intc:<i to
review the cornerstone ceremony with the intent of adopting ~ertain optional
phraseology which would better fit this ceremony to the orcumstances of
laying the cornerstone of a completed structure.

FuNERAL SERVICE QuALIPICATION
This program, which requires certification of all who deliver the California

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

133

Masonic Funeral Service, has been in effect less than one year, yet, the
advantages of such a program have already been clearly demonstrated. The
many complimentary remarks which have come to me from all over the
Jurisdiction would indicate that this program is indeed serving the purpose
for which it was intended, and that the solemnity and dignity of our Funeral
Service is being adequately maintained. With the cooperation of all the
Brethren, we may be assured that this beautiful service will continue to
provide comfort and solace to the widowed, the orphans, and all who meet
to mourn the loss of a Brother.
With further regard to the Funeral Service I have come to the conclusion
that some clarification should be given as to the requirements for Funeral
Certification. It has been apparent in the past few years that a great number
of the Brethren do not agree to total memorization of the Funeral Service as
a prerequisite to qualification.
In all fairness I must admit that your Grand Lecturer feels that no good
purpose is served by this requirement. However, Past Grand Lecturer Warlow
in January, 1944 made total memorization of the Service mandatory for all
Masters-Elect, and proficiency certificates for these Brethren were signed
only upon proof of that capability.
I most heartily agree with Brother Warlow's desire to maintain proficiency in the manner of delivery the Funeral Service; I do not feel that
total memorization is required to accomplish this purpose. I have therefore
counselled with the present Grand Chaplain, an ordained Minister, who
advises that proficiency can be maintained without that requirement. I have
further been supported in this contention by the members of the Ritual
Committee, and I now wish to place the situation in its proper perspective.
Effective immediately, the following policy shall be observed: a total
memorization of the Funeral Service shall not be required of Master-Elect,
but rather the requirement shall be "proficiency of Delivery;" this to be
determined by the Inspector of each District previous to qualifying said
officer for a proficiency certificate or qualifying a Brother for a Funeral
Service Certificate.
I should hope that none might mistake the foregoing statement as a policy
of abandoning the controls which assure proficiency in the delivery of our
Funeral Service.
On the contrary, as I have reported, the program of Funeral Certification
is our one great hope of maintaining the dignity and decorum of this Service
and will continue in full force and effect.
We say only that total memorization of the Funeral Service will no longer
be required, but each Master-Elect or any Brother who desires to be certified
to deliver our Funeral Service will still be required to give proof to his
District Inspector that he is entirely familiar with this Service, and that he
is fully qualified to deliver same assisted by presence and use of the printed
Service.

135

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is respectfully hoped that all who perform the Funeral Service will,
at all times, have the Funeral Service book open before him except in those
instances where the officiant is required to be away from the Lecturn, and
which still must be committed to memory.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The report of the Grand Lecturer contains two matters which require
policy consideration by the Grand Lodge. Your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes comments as follows:

134

VISITATIONS TO OTHER JURISDICTIONS

During the year it was my privilege to visit the Jurisdiction of Nevada
and Oklahoma, and study at first hand some of the varied systems of control
used by these Jurisdictions to teach the Ritual.
In November 1970, I was in attendance at the Annual Communication
of Nevada in Las Vegas, and in February of this year I attended the Grand
Lodge of that great State of Oklahoma in Guthrie. In my opinion much was
gained from these visitations as they afforded excellent opportunity to consult
and compare practices and procedures employed by my counterpart in these
Jurisdictions. I am greatly indebted to our Grand Master for permitting me
the Honor of acting in his behalf at these visitations.
BUDGET

The high cost of living has been keenly felt by the Ritual Committee
this year. In spite of determined efforts on the part of the Assistant Grand
Lecturers to minimize expenses, costs for the Inspectors annual Conferences
have continued to rise. Even higher costs are anticipated for the coming
year due to greatly increased travel requirements for the Inspectors and
members of the Ritual Committee. Accordingly, we have requested that the
Finance Committee approve a budget in the amount of $47,500.00 to cover
expenses incurred in teaching the Ritual for the year 1971-72.
CONCLUSION

In closing I would like to thank all those who have so greatly assisted
in making the programs of this year successful. The Inspectors for their
dedication to duty, and their determination to maintain high standards of
excellence in the several Masonic Districts. The Assistant Grand Lecturers
for their warm friendship and their steadying influence in matters of policy
determination. Grand Secretary Siems and his wonderful Staff for their
complete cooperation during the year, and to Grand Master Huebner, .1
extend my personal gratitude for his kindness and understanding; for his
many acts of courtesy, and for his complete and unwavering support throughout the entire year. And finally, to you my Brethren, for permitting me the
great honor of serving as your Grand Lecturer.
Respectfully submitted,
H. DouGLAS LEMONS, Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.
(NoTE: See also Report of Committee on Ritual Ceremony for Removal

of Cornerstone.)

1. The Grand Lecturer stated that the Ritual Committee has prepared

a suitable ceremony for the removal of Cornerstones in accordance
with Grand Master MacPhee's recommendation at the 1970 Annual
Communication. Although the Grand Lecturer's report states that such
a ceremony was approved at last year's Annual Communication, the
Proceedings show that the matter was deferred for possible action at
this Communication.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes it is proper
to have a prescribed ceremony for this purpose available for use when
desired, but that it must be clearly understood that use of the ceremony
is completely optional.
I move that the Grand Lodge permit the use of a special ceremony,
as prepared by the Committee on Ritual, for the opening of Cornerstones.
2. The Grand Lecturer has recommended that a special committee be
appointed to review the Cornerstone Ceremony with the intent of
adopting certain optional phraseology which will better fit the ceremony to modern circumstances.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that a very
few changes would be required and that these should be only in the
form of alternate words, in order that the time-honored and unique
character of the Masonic Cornerstone Ceremony may be retained with
as much fidelity as possible. Your Committee also believes no special
committee is required for this purpose and that the Ritual Committee
be requested to provide the few simple alternate words which may be
needed.
I move that the Committee on Ritual be instructed to modify the
Cornerstone Ceremony in order to provide the use of alternate words
where deemed necessary and appropriate.
Adopted.

136

137

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES

at Big Bear Lake. Your Board's President expresses the thanks of the Fraternity to the Board members who, at personal sacrifice, have given not only
this time, but countless other hours in guiding and guarding the destinies of
our Homes and our guests.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes of California met following the
election and installation of the officers of the Grand Lodge 12: 00 noon, October
16, 1970, at the California Masonic Memorial Temple for the purpose of organizing the Board.
Appointments to fill vacancies were announced as follows:
Succeeding M.W. Laurence E. Dayton, P.G.M. of Live Oak Lodge No. 61,
whose term had expired, William G. Whelan, a Past Master of Yerba Buena
Lodge No. 403, Oakland; succeeding Horace H. Mitchell of Military Service
Lodge No. 570, San Francisco, Jack Peloian, a Past Master of Orosi Lodge No.
383, Orosi. To fill the unexpired term of M.W. Guy B. Mize, P.G.M., Unity
Lodge No. 368, Glendale, whose resignation was announced in our 1970 report,
Robert H. Mason, a Past Master of Harding Lodge No. 584, Los Angeles, was
appointed for the term expiring 1972. M.W. Myron E. Smith, P.G.M., University Lodge No. 394, Torrance, was appointed for a new three-year term to
succeed himself.
By virtue of their offices in the Grand Lodge, R.W. William H. Price,
Senior Grand Warden, Evergreen Lodge No. 259, Riverside, and R.W. Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, Capital City Lodge No. 499, Sacramento, are members ex officio.
All members of the Board being present, Donald G. Campbell, P.G.L.,
Granada Lodge No. 608, Alhambra, was elected President and Alfred W. Odle,
Park Lodge No. 449, San Francisco, was elected Vice President. By virtue of
their election in the Grand Lodge, Grand Treasurer Chester R. MacPhee,
P.G.M., Golden West Lodge No. 455, San Francisco, and Grand Secretary
Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., Plymouth Lodge No. 560, Oakland, are Treasurer
and Secretary of the Board. Arthur Linsk, Loyalty Lodge No. 529, Los Angeles,
Assistant Grand Treasurer, and Verne W. Hendrix, Mount Diablo Lodge No.
448, Concord, continue as Assistant Treasurer and Assistant Secretary of the
Board by prior appointment.
Appointive Trustees and their terms are:
Expiring October, 1971- Donald G. Campbell, Robert A. Crigler, William
A. Revitt
1972 - Ralph H. Head, Robert H. Mason, Alfred W.
Odle
1973-Jack Peloian, Myron E. Smith, William G.
Whelan
MEETINGS
The Board has continued to hold its meetings monthly near the San Francisco or Los Angeles airports, except for meetings held over a two-day period.
These were held in January at Decoto, in March at Covina, in July at Newport
Beach and in September at Camp Masonic, the Covina Home's summer camp

FINANCIAL

In any private business, it is essential for management to know the cost of
doing business and the results obtained for its expenditures. Failure to do this
will inevitably result in bankruptcy. We view the operation of your Homes in
the same light. If we do not know costs in the various departments of our
operation, with inflation and resultant price and wage increases, it is easy to
have operational chaos. Our continuing endeavor is to prevent this and to maintain your per capita contribution at its present low figure of $1.00 per member.
As a consequence of this, the Budget and Operations Committee, under the
able leadership of R.W. William H. Price, met many times during the year
with the Secretary, Edward H. Siems, and the chief accountant, Miss Birma
Roush, to pinpoint areas of possible saving. The cooperation of the office staff
is gratefully acknowledged.
The comments of this Board on matters affecting its operations in its report
of the In-Depth Study evolved from Chairman Price's committee and were
unanimously adopted as the Board's position relative thereto.
It is timely here to congratulate the Homes Endowment Board and its
Chairman, Wor. Kermit A. Jacobsen, on their splendid record of achievement.
With increasing understanding of our challenges and opportunities carried to
the Lodges by these brethren, there should be a renewed spirit on the part of
the Lodge officers and members. It was a pleasure for the Homes Board President to meet with the Endowment Board and, more frequently, Brother Jacobsen. Out of these meetings comes cooperation of the finest sort in the spirit of
"who best can work and best agree". Our thanks must, however, go particularly to those dedicated Chairmen within the Lodges, the Masters and Secretaries, who, starting the Endowment drive immediately upon their return from
the Grand Lodge Communication and getting contributions in with dues payments, remembered that Masonic Charity is a twelve-month, not a one-month
virtue.
Again, we believe that with your generosity, the gifts made either in life or
by will, and with business-like administration, there will be no need for an increase in per capita, and we therefore recommend the continuance of $1.00 per
member for the support of the Homes.
COVINA

We reported to you in 1970 concerning the progress made in the redevelopment of this truly Masonic Home. The eight cottages, completed in August
of 1970, became home to our young people with the advent of the school year.
The shift from dormitory to true home environment made possible the uniting
of families formerly split off from each other by both age and sex. The expan-

139

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sion of the concept of couples as houseparents has given a balance of family
living and a resultant feeling of stability noticeable in its effect upon the
children.
We reported the demolition of the dormitories, the site and landscape work
then in progress. With their completion, an entirely new atmosphere pervades
the grounds. The many Lodge visitations bear testimony to the expanded
interest of our membership in Covina. As an example, the annual get-together
of Eastgate Lodge No. 290 and King Solomon's Seaport No. 260 this year
centered on Covina in an outing and visitation not soon to be forgotten.
Now we are engaged, under the guidance of our Master Plan Architects, A.
Quincy Jones & Associates, with Brother William G. Laffin, Cahuenga Lodge
No. 513 continuing in charge of the project, in the erection of the new Community Center. A contract with Samuelson Brothers Constructors of Los Angeles
in the amount of $712,596 and with Kitcor Corporation in the amount of
$43,710 was approved by the Board on March 13, 1971 and construction commenced in May after final approval of plans by the various authorities to which
we are subject. Work is progressing on schedule and occupancy should be
expected in early Spring of 19 72.
The following summer should complete demolition of the fifty-five year
old Administration Building, the Infirmary and a shop building, all now to be
contained in the new Center. Site repair and landscaping will bring this phase
of Covina Redevelopment to final fruition. We will then have a Home, not only
in the forefront of Masonic, but of all child-care facilities throughout the world.
We stress again that these changes, as well as those to come at Decoto, have
cost the membership, as such, not one cent. Every penny going into these improvements has come from individual donors who thought enough of Masonry
and its place in God's world to give and bequeath a portion of their worldly
goods that God's work, through Masonry, might go on after them.

ducted the affairs of the Masonic Home at Union City as its Superintendent
for 15 years."
In the words of Trustee Smith: This is a symbol of all the love, esteem
and appreciation of the Board and Masonry down across the years. May it
bring back to Gail many, many fond memories of working shoulder to shoulder
in the Fraternity's service through the Homes. This is the heart, the core, the
backbone and substance of everything that is finest in the Grand Lodge of
California.
Superintendent Hugh Herring, who had been Acting Superintendent, took
Brother Gail's place. His report should be read with care as it develops new
facets in making the Home even more homey.

138

DECOTO OPERATION
The Home at Union City, known with the affection of the years as the
Decoto Home, personifies our trust of Brotherly Love. Here reside our older
Brothers, their wives and widows, in dignity and fellowship. The operation of
the Home with now an average population of 360, with those cared for in the
infirmary and those who are semi-ambulatory making up half the population,
is a truly herculean task. Last year we reported the illnes.5 of then Superintendent Gail H. David. After extended leave of absence, his retirement was
dictated by physical circumstance on July 1, 1971. May I quote at this time
from the citation presented to Brother Gail David on June 2, 1971 by Trustee
Myron E. Smith, P.G.M., on behalf, not only of the Board of Trustees, but all
of us here today and all California Masonry.
"On behalf of the Masons of the State of California, the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Homes express their grateful appreciation to Gail H. David
for the understanding, compassionate and capable manner in which he con-

DECOTO REDEVELOPM ENT
Our greatest concern last year, and doubly so now, is the question of Decoto
Redevelopment.
At the 1970 Communication, we reported to the Grand Lodge on the study
made by the Board itself through the Decoto Redevelopment Steering Committee. This Committee consisted of Alfred W. Odle, Laurence E. Dayton,
P.G.M., Myron E. Smith, P.G.M. and William H. Price, then Junior Grand
Warden. Their report, made after long investigation, became a part of our
report under the heading:

A Reaffirmation of Masonic Relief."
well-planned and situated for its earlier
while
that
showed
report
This
purposes, the ravages of time, the change of environment from pleasant countryside to heavy industrial, the rising age of our guests, and the lack of level
ground had all mitigated against the present site.
Not satisfied with this and in order to safeguard the orderly proces.5 of
redevelopment, the Board ordered two entirely independent studies to be made
of our present facility to determine if, based upon present requirements of law
and building regulations, use could be made of the present site and the existing
buildings. One study was made by our Master Plan Architects, A. Quincy
Jones and Associates, who have done such a superb job at Covina. This firm is
presently engaged by Palo Alto Clinic as its Master Plan designers. Since Palo
Alto Clinic and Stanford University Hospital furnish all medical care for our
Decoto guests, a happy circumstance of close collaboration exists to our benefit. The second study was made by Community Health Planning Corporation
of San Francisco under the able direction of Mr. John Y. James, its President,
who personally directed the project.
Underlying each study is a thread of fact of great concern to this Board.
The Hayward Fault, a major branch of the San Andreas Fault extends directly south down the western face of the Hayward Hills through the present
site of the Home. This Fault was the center in 1868 of one of the largest earthquakes to hit Northern California. In the face of the devastation wrought at
"DEcoro REDEVELOPMEN T -

140

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

Sylmar in the San Fernand o Valley in the earthqua ke of Februar y 9, 1971,
to
modem hospital facilities, each consulting firm recommends the removal of our
Home to firm natural ground, on a level site of size sufficient to permit singlestory units, not only for housing but for the infirmary buildings as well.
We do not advocate immediate abandon ment of these present buildings
which have stood for generations but we would be derelict in our duty
as
Trustees for you and for our guests if we did not "with all deliberate speed"
proceed with the orderly planning, acquisition and erection of the kind
of
facility which will be a credit to our Masonic heritage. Each study emphasized
the prohibitive cost and practica l impossibility of bringing the present buildings up to prevailing code, notwithstanding the earthqua ke hazard, but with
this as an acknowledged fact of life, our removal to another site becomes
imperative.
To this end, we are proceeding with the search for a site, meeting the criteria laid down in these studies.
We are, at the same time, looking to the engagement of an architec t so that
the site chosen may be properly utilized for the high purpose intended.
We are grateful to the firms who engaged in these studies with vigor, understanding, and, above all, a feeling for the work here being done by the Fraternity through this Home. In each case, the spirit of Superintendent Herring and
his staff was transmit ted to and became evident as a part of each report.

CONCL USION

As President of the Board of Trustees, I wish to comment on the service
given and the talents in many business fields represented by the Trustees
on
the Board. With the appointm ents made by Grand Master Huebne r in 1970, we
gained not only regional representation and interpre tation, but talent as well.
Among the appointive Trustees , newly joining the Board, Brother Jack
Peloian, in addition to his contribution of expert knowledge of accounting,
gives, for the first time, convenient access to a Trustee by the San Joaquin
Valley Lodges; Brother Bob Mason, experienced in furnitur e manufacturing,
building operation and financing; Brother Bill Whelan, the essential of insurance and loss prevention knowledge. Your Vice President, Alfred W. Odle, has
served as Chairma n of the Decoto Redevelopment Committee, on the Budget
and Operations Committee and the Real Estate Committee, and, as a Homes
representative, on the Retirem ent Committee of Grand Lodge. The Sacramento
Valley, through Brother Bill Revitt, an experienced businessman, has a Trustee
near at hand. Brother Ralph Head, a leading business executive, in his return
to duty in 1969, has proven that old brooms do sweep clean as new ones.
Special mention must me made of the work done by our two Past Grand
Masters, who, exchanging the gavel for the trowel, have added their strength
and wisdom to the Board. The disposal of real estate given to the Masonic
Homes has always been a problem. Under the leadership of Past Grand Master
Robert A. Crigler, an orderly program of indexing, appraisal and sale has result-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

141

ed in an increase in investible reserves from hitherto frozen and unproductive
assets. He is presentl y engaged in the search for a new site for Decoto. Words
can hardly express the debt of the Board and Masonry to P~t GI"a?d Master
Myron E. Smith for his dedication to the Homes. He has given wisdom and
clarity of thought to every phase of our work, from Covina Redevelopment and
Budget and Operations to the survey of Decoto and the great task before us
of
Decoto Redevelopment.
Our ex officio Trustees R.W. William H. Price, S.G.W. and R.W. Raymon d
A. Ebbage, J.G.W., in spite of heavy schedules, have don~ more than just attend our meetings serving faithfully and well on the comnuttees of the Board.
We rely upon'ou r Secretary, M.W. Edward H. Siems, ~.G.M., and.Gra nd
Secretary, to faithfully record the proceedings and ~nanoal tr:insactions .of
the Board. This he and his staff do with their usual dispatch, quick to fu~
information and diligent in their duty. We noted, with regret, the early retirement of our Norther n Field Representative Mrs. Maria Workman. She was
hard to replace, but, in the person of Mrs. Sue Collins, formerly employed
at
Covina we believe that we have found a worthy successor.
Th; Board has always been careful to recognize the supreme authorit y of
the Grand Lodge and, in its recess, the Grand Master. That authorit y ~ been
exercised with good humor and restrain t by our Grand Master who, m frequent conferences, has been kept in touch with problems and ~e progress made
to solve them. We thank our friend and the Most Worshipful Herbert A.
Huebne r and wish him all good things in his future service to Masonry.
With thanks to all of these, I wish more than all to tha~ the officers and
members of the Lodges for their faith in and their work for this greatest expression of Brother ly Love -your Masonic Homes.
Respectfully submitted,
DoNALD G. CAMPBE LL, President

ROBERT A. CRIGLER
RAYMON D A. EBBAGE

RALPH H. HEAD
ROBERT H. MASON
}ACX H. PELOIAN

Al.FRED W. ODLE, Vice President
WILLIAM H. Pru:CE
WILLIAM A. REVITT
MYRON E. SMITH
Wu.LIAM G. WHELAN

142

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
MASONIC HOME AT UNION CITY
It is with pleasure that I present my first report as Superintendent of the
Masonic Home in Union City, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971.
The population on June 30, 1971 was 365, including 32 married couples.
There were 157 men and 208 women, and the average age was 83.43. For the
first time, the average age of our men residents, 83.56 years, slightly exceeded
the women residents average age of 83.29 years.

Men
65 to 69 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Women
5

Total
7

.................. 33
80 to 89 years .................. 95
90 to 99 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
101 years .................. .... 1
105 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

58

91

109

204

34

60

Age Group

70 to 79 years

106 years .................. ....

1

208

~t is ope? daily from 9 to 11 A.M., serving coffee, tea, donuts and sweet rolls. It
IS open m the afternoons from 2 to 4 P.M., serving coffee tea and sandwiches
(all at no cost to the residents) and it has met with great ~nthusiasm. We have
many new activities planned for the immediate future for the benefit and comfort of our residents.

The residents of the Home have asked that I extend to the many Lodges and
individual Masons, their sincere appreciation for the many favors and thoughtfulness shown to them during the past year.
Our !tfaso~c H?me register ~as signed by 3,748 visitors, repr~nting 392
Lodges m Califorma and Hawan, 25 states and 4 foreign countries· Japan
Newfoundland, Finland and Holland. Visitors included the Grand Master of
Kansas and the Grand Master of Oregon .
One of the highlights of our Masonic Home year was the visitation of our
own ~ost Worship.ful Grand Master, Herbert A. Huebner on January 23, 1971.
On this same date It was our fraternal pleasure and privilege to have the entire
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Home, here for their meeting .
We express our appreciation to the many Lodges and Masonic Affiliated

Bo~es, and .to each individual for their various contributions to the Home.

1
1

157

143

365

The total capacity of our hospital, including the 5th floor Adams Annex is
16 7 and as of June 30, 1971 the hospital census was 15 5 patients of which 131
were considered permanent. There also were 60 semi-ambulatory residents
requiring nursing care and 59% of the total population of the Home was under
nursing care. Because of the advanced age of the new residents entering the
Home and the gradual increase in the average age of residents, we can expect
an even greater percentage of our population requiring nursing care in the
future.
We have been very fortunate in the past year in not having any major
repairs, but because of the age of the buildings and equipment, maintenance has
been very costly and we can be assured that costs will increase greatly each year.
Most of our buildings and equipment have passed their useful expectancy.
Much enthusiasm has been generated by our residents since the announcement last Fall by the Board of Trustees that studies for a new Masonic Home
are under consideration. Although much nostalgia is attached to our present
Home, the majority of our residents are excited about the possibilities of a new
home.
Many new pleasures for the residents have been instituted in the past year.
We have enlarged our Arts and Crafts classes and increased shopping trips. A
continental breakfast is served on Sunday mornings for those who wish to sleep
late. These are only a few of our new activities. We have a new coffee shop and

Their donations of money, clothing, Christmas gifts and many other items
have all been put to good use. Our special thanks to the Order of Eastern Star
the East Bay Past !datrons Ass?Ciation, for their many projects, Jam and Jell;
Day, cancer dressmgs, entertainment, etc., which are very beneficial to the
Home.
.To each member ?f the Board of Trustees, my fraternal thanks for the
as.sistance you have g1ven me; for the many hours of labor you have given to
make our residents' today and tomorrow as pleasurable as possible.
Also, to o~r sta~ at Union City and San Francisco, my personal thanks foe
your cooperation this past year.
Respectfully submitted,
HUGH B. HERRING, Superintendent

REPORT OF SUPERINTEND ENT-COVINA HOME
It is a pleasure to submit the annual report of the Masonic Home for Children for the year 1970-1971.
. At year's end our population .c.onsisted of 62 children, 38 boys and 24
girls - ages from 5 - 18. Our high school graduating class of 1971 conSISB. tebd of Mike Jenner, 18, Wilshire Lodge No. 445 and Stuart Kausrud, 18,
ur ank Lodge No. 406.
Throughout the year we had three young men reunited with their
families by means of parental withdrawal - Larry Knauer, 16, Ashlar

144

145

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge No. 306, Peter Hawley, 12, Glassell Park Lodge No. 605 and
James Ash.forth, 14, Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
Our Masonic Home Family welcomed the following young men and
women during this past year:

instances the children have had an opportunity to help select the new
baby's name. Needless to say, these experiences are thrilling to our children.
The children and staff at Covina would be most happy to have you
come visit us. We have picnic facilities, including softball field, picnic
tables and benches, athletic equipment, shade trees, lots of grass, a tennis
court, badminton facilities and an unlimited amount of enthusiasm and
desire to make you feel welcome.

Floyd Black (12) Altadena Lodge No. 678.
Jon (14) and Tim Haines (13), Granada Lodge No. 608.
Dennis (11) and Richard Hudgins (13), James A. Kew Lodge
No. 766.
Craig Hunter (13), Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
The Richardson family, Mike (5), Cindy (9), Jeff (11), Deanna
(13) and Debra (15) from Fresno Lodge No. 247.
Loretta Wifiler (13), Yosemite Lodge No. 99.
Diane (13) and Debra Weiman (15), Damascus Lodge No. 648.
"Our tum over" has been a consistent one - children reunited with
their families, seniors graduating and going on to college, plus new members coming to live with us. Life at Masonic is meaningful, interesting
and ever changing.
The "cottage plan" of living for the children under our care at Covina
has exceeded all expectations. In many instances brothers and sisters are
together as a family unit for the first time in their lives. The "big
brother" - "big sister" concept has become a reality, inasmuch as we no
longer group our children solely by age. All cottages have an age differential which is more closely oriented toward family living.
With our new cottages, each child has a degree of privacy due to
his having his own individual room. Psychologically, he has something
of his own and with this privilege he also has the responsibility to care
for it.
Each child, in all eight family groups, has the opportunity to plan,
buy, and prepare an occasional meal under the supervision of houseparents.
Each child has an opportunity to learn and develop skills which are
going to be neces.sary for him to use when he graduates and leaves the
home. These same experiences can be applied to his purchasing, caring
for, washing and ironing his clothing, inasmuch as each family cottage unit
is equipped with a washer-dryer combination. Education and training for
tomorrow is one of our passwords.
By using couples as houseparents, our children are exposed to a more
normal, happy, living, family relationship. To some of our children this
is a new experience. In some instances our houseparents have had babies
born to them while employed here and this experience has been a thrilling
one for our boys and girls. Our children have been exposed to a normal
family situation where "mama" becomes pregnant, carries the baby and
delivers a new "little brother or sister" to the family group. In most

During your visitation our children will be happy to serve as guides.
Arrangements for visitations can be made by calling the H<~me or writing
to arrange for dates.
The key to successful operation is a combination of philosophy, method
of work, and personnel. The fraternity can be extremely proud of the personnel who are meeting the needs of the children under our care.
Brother J. Burt Brown, Assistant Superintendent of the Masonic Home
for Children is a most dedicated Masonic brother and brings a very rich,
meaningful background to his position. Burt has been a successful business
man, an assistant pastor in a local church and brings an experience of some
25 years of working with people. He is an excellent organiur and has the
ability to relate with our boys and girls. Part of Burt's immediate responsibilities deal with the redevelopment project and working with architects, contractors, and subcontractors as we continue the Covina redevelopment
program.
Mr. Bill Hamner serves as Director of Child Care. Bill has just completed his professional training and is soon to be a registered social worker.
His primary responsibility is to help in the selection, orientation, supervision and evaluation of houseparents and child care staff that deal directly with our children.
Mr. Walt Schaeffer supervises our tutorial-educational program. I't
is his responsibility to see that each child is tested as to his capacity and
is encouraged to work up to maximum capacity in the area of education.
Walt has graduate degrees in psychology and education and is extremely
well fitted and experienced for his job. Walt's skill and sensitivity aids us
in helping the children accept the type of counseling and guidance which is
necessary for them to reach their maximum potential.
Mrs. Ruth Whittenberger, our head cook, serves a variety of well planned and prepared, and well served meals. For those who need the same,
special diets are prepared. She and her staff are extremely important persons in our staffing structure.
All personnel, engineers, gardners, nurses, administrative personnel, bookkeeper and maintenance people contribute patience, love and understanding
into the lives of all our children. They are all very important people.

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
Our alumni scholarship program .
'!11!df~llowing is a list of
~':::!ru
~
receivi~
are
who
s
graduate
and
alumni
Lodge
College
Major
Liberal Arts
Lodge No. ?66
UC-Dav is
Vet. Medicine
San Bernardino
College
348
La Verne
Lodge ~o.
Liberal Arts
Ku~~~ed) el
Mt. Olive Lodge
0970
506
No.
College
La Verne
Deb T
Pre-law
San M .
ra orra.nce
anno
(l 9?0)
College
La Verne
L_odge No 685
Liberal Arts
Carolyn Smith
Signal Lodge
970)
0
543
No.
Ki
College
B
Biola
Liberal Arts
Burbank Lod e
rent ng
g
No 406
(l96?)
College
Citrus
Auto Mechanics
M~nte Vista
Bruce Warrick
Poly
Cal
Lodge No. 653
Vet. Medicine
Joh~l~~erstaff
Lancaster
)
Antelope Valley
(
1970
College
~ge No. 43 7
Refrig. Mechanics
*Paul Kilpatrick
amona Lodge
Monterey Peninsula
( 1961 )
College
No. 45?
•nave Kilpatrick
Pre-law
Ramona Lod e
Monterey Peninsula
g
No 457
0 961 )
College
Social Work
Ra~ona Lodge
•Pat Kilpatrick
No. 457
(196!)
UC-Irvin e
Pre-law
Burbank Lodge
Stuart Kausrud
No 406
(l9?1)
Pre-law
Whittier College
Lo~ Cerritos
•Mitchell Strauss
1965
•
614
N
Lodge
>
p re-I aw
< Ritch'
Citrus College
*Linda
Eucalyptuo.s
ie
964
UC
243
Lodge No
0 )
Education
LA
·
• Indicates alumni h I f
w o e t the Home on the dates shown but did not graduate.
•
Name
Steve Archinal
0 957 >
Larry Barnes

Denrus Cox, Fairfax Lodge No 556 and Geo
rge Mann, Alta Vista.
Mt. Vernon Lodge No 464 are both
in the Air Force
~u~try
o~r
g
shi;r~~
and are no longer rec~iving scholar
, St. Elmo
Gockley
raig
taasM1s
v·
Alta
Mann
Tom
Lodge No. 697 and
is - t. Vernon Lodge No. 464.
'
Craig Gockle h
y
of Art and i? no~ ~=~::~t ~woJear course ~t San Francisco Academ
comhas
Mann
Tom.
~.
profess10
~~~
pleted a two year course in El:Ctro~
now holds a responsible position in his chos:! ~~can River College and
on.
.p
The next few months will see th
. e.comp1eti?n of Stage III of our redevelopment program namel
Y•. at new mfmnar y, library-recreation room, parlor
kitchen dining
.'
enance shop and a beautifuI patio which will
main
'
'
encompass our "Founta in of the Futur~".
We are gratef~l to the brethren of California
for their
love, concern and interest in our children We ar an~efHlawaii
e gra u to the Board
·
th
h
of Trustees for the m
Ma.sonic Home Famil ~Y ours ey spend in working on behalf of our
y
..
Come vis1 t us!

:oom

Respectfully submitted
'
]AMES C. BLAINE, Superintendent

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

147

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDO WMEN T BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board hereby submits its 39th Annual
Report covering the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971. We welcome this
opportu nity to examine the records with you and to express our deep appreciation for your wonderful support.
INCOME FROM THE ENDOWM ENT FUND

It is interesting to note that our permanent Endowment Fund earned
$1,167,969.49 during the past year which has been transferred to the operating account of our two Masonic Homes. If we did not have the endowment fund, that amount converted into terms of a per capita tax would be
an additional amount of $5.06 per member.

BEQUEST S, GIFTS AND MEMORI ALS

Bequests in the amount of $517 ,42 2.6 7 were received into the Endowment
Fund during the past year. In addition, $902,678.05 were received in bequests
by the Homes from estates wherein the Endowment Fund was not specifically
mentioned in the will.
Gifts through organizations and individuals amounted to $9,651.45.
Memorials added $26,091.59 to our funds, thus a total of $1,454,843.76 was
received during the fiscal year in the form of bequests, memorials, and gifts
from individuals and groups. One can readily see the importance of stressing
the value of bequests and wills for the benefit of our two homes.
INDIVIDU AL CONTRIB UTIONS THROUG H LoDGES

We are always anxious to know how well we have done in the area of
individual contributions through our lodges. We are very pleased to report
that individual contributions through Lodges in California and Hawaii totaled
$936,637.66. This is $17,245.50 more than was contributed last year. The
average per contributing member is $8.36 per member as compared to $8.12
in 1970. The percentage of participants was 48.5% or .1 % over a year ago.
The average donation from the entire membership increased from $3.91 to
$4.06 this year. This is a fine record in spite of the problems of rising unemployment and a poor economic climate.

148

CoMPAIUSON OF CoNTRIBunoNs THRouGH LoooES
1962 THROUGH 1971

LoDGES WITH LAllGEST AMOUNTS OF CONTRIBUTIONS

No.
1
42
623
450
596
529
327
348

Amoum

No.

California •..•••••••••• $11,656.00
Los Angeles • • • • • • . • • • • • 10,000.62
Menorah • • • . • • • • • • • . • • 9,494.70
Van Nuys • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6,807.28
Guardian • • • • • • • • • . • • • • 5,968.80
Loyalty • • • .. .. .. • .. .. • 5,767.00
Long Beach • • • • • • • • • • . • 5,611.20
San Bernardino • • . • • • • • 5,000.56

35
542
483
520
335
506

Lodge

149

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

.A.1110t11d

San Diego ............. $ 4,758.00
North Hollywood .. • ••• 4,737.20
Bell • • • • • . • • • . . • • • • . • . • 4,610.98
Ionic • • .. .. .. • • • • • • • • .. 4,607 .35
West Gate .. • • • • .. • • .. 4,360.25
Mt. Olive • • • .. .. .. .. • • • 4,264.25
655 Monte Vista • • • • • • . . • . • 4,228.63
3 Tehama ..... .. .. .... .. 3,917.75

Year

Lodges' Yearly
Contributiom

Pattidpatmg
Member:s

"""IJI'
Gil•

Total
JI ember:sldp

1971
1970
1969
1968
1967
1966
1965
1964
1963
1962

$936,637.66
919,392.16
886,120.14
863,339.82
855,116.02
904,437.59
846,895.50
783,339.94
741,241.47
696,787.15

112,019
113,260
111,745
114,063
116,409
125,272
123,854
118,319
116,339
112,846

$8.36
8.12
7.93
7.57
7.35
7.22
6.84
6.62
6.37
6.18

230,583
233,855
236,870
239,745
241,834
243,572
244,914
244,814
244,798
244,563

LoooEs WITH THE LARGEST AVERAGE GIFTS

No.
1
800
826
727
481
765
813
307
327

Averag•
Gilt

Lodge

California ................. $32.93
Rio Hondo ................ 19.57
Palm Desert . • • • .. .. • • • . • • • 14.64
Verdugo Hills .............. 11.38
Mt. Davidson ••••••••••.•.• 10.45
Dana R. Weller •..•...•..•• 10.05
Old West • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 9.68
Santa Monica • • • • . . . • • • • • • • 9.62
Long Beach • .. .. .. .. • • .. • • 9.48

No.
278
95
378
42
566
805
790
780

755

Averag•
Gil•

Lodge

NOTE:
California's average gift of $32.93 is the second highest ever recorded.
The all-time record belongs to Dimond No. 603 which in 1966 achieved an
average gift of $42.33.

LoDOES WITH THE LARGEST AVERAGE AMOUNT PER MEMBER

Year

No.

1971
1970
1969
1968
1967
1966
1965
1964
1963
1962

1
378
800

800
1

603
797
786
797
805

Lodge

PERCENTAGE OF DONORS OF ENTIRE MEMBERSHIP
1966 THROUGH 1971

Southern California •.••••.. $ 8.92
Henry Clay .. • . . • • . . . . • . • . 8.89
Mizpah • • • • • • • • . • • . • . • • • . • 8.83
Los Angeles • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8.70
James A. Garfield • . • • • • • • • • 8.65
Camellia • • . • • • . . • • • • . . . • • • 8.60
Granada Hills . • .. .. .. . • • • • 8.28
Riviera • • • • • .. .. • • • • .. • • . • 7.96
Golden Bowl • . • • • . • • • • • • • • 7.90

Average Gift

California ••••••.•.• •••.••• .•••••••.•.•••••••••••••••••• • .$32.93
Mizpah ••••••••.•••••• ••• •••••...•.•••••••••••••••••••••• 23.96
Rio Hondo ••••••••..••...•••••.•.•.••••••••.•••••••••••• 19.23
Rio Hondo • • • • . • • . • . • • • . • • • • • . • • • • . . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 18.03
California .... ... ......................................... 29.37
Dimond •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • . • • • . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • 42.33
Tila Pass • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • . . • . . • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 12.85
Rio Linda ............................................... 10.31
Tila Pass • • • • . . . . . . . . • . . . • • • • . . • . . • . • • • . • . • • • • • . • . . . • • • . • 12.85
Camellia • • • • • • . • . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 16.46

Yeat

Total Member:ship

Percentage Contributing

1971
1970
1969
1968
1967
1966

230,583
233,855
243,572
239,745
241,834
243,572

48.58%
48.43%
47.17%
47.58%
48.14%
51.43%

RECOGNITION TO INSPECTORAL CORPS

We give special recognition and thanks to the inspectoral corps because
when all Lodges in a district have an unusually high record it is because the
Inspector has added his enthusiastic support to that of the officers of the
Lodge.
It is well known that our Grand Lecturers and Inspectors wholeheartily
support the endowment program. Our special thanks to each for his efforts
on our behalf.

HONOR DISTRICTS AND THEIR INSPECTORS

The Lodges in the following Districts averaged $6.00 or more per member:
Dl:strict
322
34-0
378
53 'l
538

ln:spector
Edward C. Lohmeyer
Daniel D. Rowlands
Michael Schredl
Roy J. Benville
Jack L. Craven

Di:stric•
54-0
548
554

556
572
622

ln:spect"'
Robert G. Jamieson
Robert B. Montgomery
Morton R. Tooredman
Irving Zuckerman
John B. Patterson
Gene C. Gregory

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Lodges in the following Districts averaged $5.00 to $5.99 per
member:

PRINTED MATERIALS FOR D1sTRmuTION

District
224
508
516
518
526
528
544
546
574

Inspector
Preston M. Mecum
Ray H. Paine
William W. Dickson, Jr.
Jack R. Vickers
Harold M. Hand
Edward W. Schneringer
Samuel Rosen
Jacques C. Bourguignon
Olin M. Heikkola

District
586
588
592
594
596
618
625
626
630

Inspector
Thomas H. Wright
Robert E. Crist
James D. Kelso
Robert C. Eulberg
Ray F. Knapp
Lyle C. Hall
Grant W. John
Charles J. Wentz
Leroy G. Connelly

The Lodges in the following Districts averaged $4.00 to $4.99 per
member:
District
107
162
169
212
216

227
338
365
384
385
431
504
512
520
522
524
530
534
542

550
552
558
560
562

Inspector
Joseph W. Wright
Harold A. Miller
Arlie R. Fleming
William E. Marshall
Floyd L. Baker
John Reddick
Robert M. Montgomery
Albert F. Koula
Charles C. McAllister
John D. Pringle
Verlan R. Wyatt
James E. Bacon
Jerry J. Ritch
Donald Maltby
Harold E. Scott
Ray L. Peterson
T. Wm. Heidner
James E. Wellet
Frank L. Sutliff
William R. Worobe
Cletus 0. Smith
Thomas R. Waite
Frederic E. Clark
Robert A. Simon

District
564
566
568
570
576
578
580
582
590
602
605
607
608
609
610
612
616
620
624
628
637
638
639
646

Inspector
Charles K. Schertle
Elvin C. Drake
George E. Harrison
Edwin W. Branaum
Maurice J. Norton
William Bottorff
James A. Boyle
John A. Turnbull
Paul W. Smith
Donald T. Wright
Kenneth Dowell
Rodney D. Pillow
Lee A. Strong
Thor C. Fredericksen
Earl C. Lowe
Alvin N. Schmitz
Stanley L. Channon
Leonard D. Babcock
Rodney H. Davis
Phil Campbell
William C. Leach
John E. Mikol
Merle L. Coon
Elwood E. Adams

RECOGNITION TO LODGE SECRETARIBS

Lodge secretaries are a connecting link between the Lodge and its
members. Much of the success of the Endowment Program is due to their
consistent and enthusiastic support. Our special thanks to these faithful
brethren of Masonry.

151

Your Board recognizes the need for attractive and informative literature
to tell the story of our two homes and how we can support them to the
advantage of every member of the craft. You will find su~ lit~r~ture on
display in the exhibit area. Place your orders for these materials; it is a ~ay
to reach the 51.5% who still do not contribute to this most worthy charity.
We feel that you will be proud to distribute this material to our Brethren.
MASONIC LoDGE SERVICE RoLL

($3.00 or more)
The following Lodges have attained Service Roll status by average
member contributions of $4.00 or more:
A,,erage
Amount
No.
Lodge
Per Member
1 California ..............•. $32.93
800 Rio Hondo ............... 19.57
826 Palm Desert .............. 14.64
727 Verdugo Hills ............. 11.38
481 Mt. Davidson . . . . . . . . . . • • 10.45
765 Dana R. Weller ••.•..••.•• 10.05
813 Old West .. . . .. . .. .. . . .. . • 9.68
307 Santa Monica .. . . .. . . .. . . • 9.62
327 Long Beach .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. 9.48
278 Southern California . . . • . . . . 8.92
95 Henry Clay .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. 8.89
378 Mizpah . .. .. .. . . . .. . .. .. .. 8.83
42 Los Angeles .. .. . • . • .. .. • .. 8.70
566 James A. Garfield . . • . . . . . . • 8.65
805 Camellia . . . . . • . .. . .. .. . . • • 8.60
790 Granada Hills . • . . .. . • • .. • 8.28
780 Riviera . . .. . . .. .. .. .. . .. .. 7.96
755 Golden Bowl . • . . . . . • . • . . . . 7.90
290 East Gate . . .. .. .. . . • .. . .. 7.77
814 Plaza De Los Angeles • . . . . . 7.72
548 Triangle . • • . . • .. . . . .. • . . . . 7 .64
786 Rio Linda . . . .. .. . .. • .. . .. 7.62
540 Queen Beach . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.58
324 Corona . . . • • • . .. • . . . . • . . • • 7.47
823 Maccabee • . . . . . . . .. • . . . • . . 7.47
623 Menorah .. • • . . . .. . • .. .. . • 7.46
56 Volcano . • • . • . • • • . . . . • • . . . 7.40
779 Five Points • • .. .. . .. .. . .. • 7.33
785 Paramount • • . . • • . . . . . . . . .. 7.29
529 Loyalty .. .. • • • • • • .. .. . .. • 7.24
595 Alexander Graham Bell . . . • 7.24
662 Henry Knox .. .. . .. .. . • .. . 7.22
776 EAi.st Whittier .. • .. .. .. • • .. 7.19
781 Rolling Hills .. . .. .. . .. . . .. 7.02
825 Gemini • • • • . . • . .. • . . . . . . . • 6.99
699 Bixby Knolls • • . . • • . . .. . • . . 6.96
513 Cahuenga . .. • . . . . . . . • . . . .. 6.95
743 Oakwood . . • • • • . .. . . . .. • . . 6.84
599 Carmelita • • • • • • .. . • .. .. . .. 6.83
464 Alta Vista-Mt. Vernon . • . • • 6.82
"28 San Dimas • • . .. .. . .. . . . . . • 6.77

A,,erage
Amount
Lodge
Per Member
No.
596 Guardian . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • 6.71
409 Honolulu • . • . . . . . . • . . . . . • • ,6.69
543 Signal . • . . . • . • . . . . . . . • . . • • 6.65
740 Opportunity . . . . .. . .. .. .. . • 6.49
202 Pentalpha • • . . • . • . . . . . . . . . 6.46
127 Hermann . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 6.45
483 Bell • • . . . • . . . . . • . . . . • • . . . • 6.45
702 Rosemead . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 6.36
492 Garvanza • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.34
422 Eagle Rock . . .. .. . . . . . .. .. 6.30
215 Oak Grove . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . 6.29
467 Culver City . . . . . . . . • . . . • • 6.27
731 Two Rivers . . . . • . . . • . . . .. • 6.26
580 Santa Maria • . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.25
660 Baldwin Park . . . . . • . • . • . .. 6.23
766 James H. Kew . . . • . . • . . . . • 6.15
642 La Cumbre . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . 6.13
739 La Canada • • • . . . . • . . . . . . . . 6.12
824 Camarillio . • • • . . . . . . . • . . • . 6.12
796 Golden Valley . . • • . . • . . . • . 6.11
522 Belvedere Sunrise . . . • . • . . . . 6.10
728 Lakewood . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . • 6.09
729 Centennial . . . . . . . . . • . . • • . • 6.08
694 San Antonio . • . . . • . . . . . . • . 6.06
797 Tila Pass • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6.02
697 Saint Elmo . . • • . . • . . . . . . . . • 6.01
242 Magnolia . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 5.96
322 Alhambra • • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 5.94
523 Bellflower • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 5.93
733 Golden Empire • . . . . . . . . . • • 5.93
593 All States . . • . . . • . • • . • . . • • 5.92
816 William B. Ogden • • . . . • . • 5.89
377 Artesia . . . . . . • • . . • . . • • • . . • 5.86
716 Belmont Shore .. . . • • • • . . . . 5.86
450 Van Nuys • • • . . . . . . . . • . . . • 5.81
643 Alta Loma .. • • . .. .. • . . . . .. 5.81
710 Anacapa • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • 5.79
382 Highland Park . . . . • • . . . . . • 5.78
693 Palm Springs . • • • . . • • . • . . • • 5.78
745 Peninsula . . . . . . . . • . . . • • . . • 5.78
166 Excelsior . . . . . • . . • . • • • . • . • 5.76

152
No.

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Average
Amount
Lodge
Per Member
Tejon .......... .......... S.7S
Simi Valley . . . • . .. • . . .. • .. S.7S
Mar Vista • • • . . . • . .. . • • • . .. S.73

773
806
820
768 Zenith . . • • • • . . . . • • . • . • • . . • s.69
373 West Los Angeles • • . • • . . . . . S.67
717 Wayfarer • • .. • • .. . • . .. .. . • S.66
293 Orange Grove .. .. .. .. . .. .. S.63
706 Hunters Point Naval • . • . . . . S.63
7S8 West Covina .. .. .. . . .. .. .. S.S7
30S Azusa ••. •. • .• . • . .• . . . . . .• S.S6
604 Jubilee • . • • • • . . . • • • . • . . • . • S.SS
631 Benevolence • .. .. .. .. . .. . .. S.5S
S78 Progressive .. .. .. . .. • .. .. . S.S3
661 Malta . . .•. • • •• . . . • . . . . . . . S.S3
742 Morning Side Park . . . . . . . . S.S3
S38 Ascot • . •• ••. •. • . • • .. .. .. . S.S2
744 San Leandro • . . • . • • • • • . • . . S.Sl
4S2 San Pasqual .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . S.46
6Sl Menlo Park .. .. . .. .. .. . .. S.43
713 Castro Valley • .. .. .. • .. .. • S.42
394 University .. . .. • .. . .. .. .. • S.41
4S7 Ramona • • • • . • . • . • • • . . . • . • 5.41
639 Composite . • . • • . . . . . . . • . . • 5.40
51S Vermont Square • . . • . • . . • • 5.39
471 Delta • • • • • • • • • . . . • . . • . . . • 5.38
68S San Marino .... ...... .. .. • 5.37
3 Tehama • • • • • . . . . . • • . • • • • • 5.34
300 Redlands • • • . • • . . . • . . . . . . • 5.33
6SS Monte Vista .. .. . .. .. .. . .. 5.33
367 South Pasadena . .. .. .. • .. • 5.30
S86 Garden Grove .. • .. .. .. • .. 5.30
S33 Azure • . . . . . . • . . . . • • . . . • • • 5.29
698 William D. Stephens . • • . • . . 5.29
329 Valley De France • . • • • • . . • • 5.26
389 Palos Verdes .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 5.26
S06 Mount Olive .. . .. .. .. .. • .. 5.26
769 Palmdale .. .. .. .. .. . • .. . .. 5.25
S42 North Hollywood . • • . . . • . . . 5.21
418 Elysian • • • . • . • . • . • • . . . . . . • 5.20
763 Arabic • • • • • . • • • • • . • . • . . . . 5.20
714 Blue Lakes • .. . .. .. .. .. .. • 5.19
412 Calexico .. . • • . . . .. . . . • . • . • 5.17
120 Fidelity .. • .. .. .. • .. • .. .. .. 5.lS
181 Russian River .. .. .. . .. .. • • 5.14
SS9 Craftsmen • • . • • • . . . • • • • . . • 5.13
S77 Sull!1~side • .. .. .. .. .. • .. .. 5.13
Bemcia .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • 5.11
423 York •• ••••.•• ••• .• . . .• • . • 5.11
44S Wilshire • • • • . • . • • . • • • • • • . • 5.11
648 Damascus . • • • • . • • . • . • • • • • 5.10
752 Luther Burbank • • • . . • . . . . 5.10
264 Hesperian • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 5.09
444 Carpinteria .. .. • • .. • .... .. 5.09
636 John Marshall • .. . .. .. •• .. 5.09
759 El Rancho • . • . . • • • • . . . • • • • 5.09
612 Temple City .. .... .... .... 5.08
770 Laite Chabot .... .. ...... .. 5.06
446 La Puente • . • • . • . • • • • • • • • • 5.0S
16 Eureka • • • • • • . . • . • . • • . • . • • 5.04

s

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

Average
Amounl
Per Member

Lodge
Beverly Hills .. .. • .. .. .. • • S.04
La Mirada • • . • • • • . . • • • • • • . 5.04
Francis Dralte • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5.03
sos Silver Cord • • . • • • • • • . • . • • • S.03
630 Ingleside • • • • • • • . . • • • . . • • • S.03
7S3 Lawndale • • . • . . • • • • . • . • • • • S.03
272 Pasadena • • • . . . • . . • • • • • • • • S.02
475 America . • . . • • . • . . . • • • • • • • S.02
637 Palisades . • • • . . • • • . . . . . . . • 5.02
667 Meridian • • • . . . . . • • . . . • . • • S.02
S24 Catalina Island .. .. .. .. • .. • 5.01
S46 San Gabriel • .. .. • .. .. . .. .. S.00
348 San Bernardino .. .. .. . .. .. 4.99
362 Charity . • • • . • • . . . . . . . • • • . • 4.99
372 Gardena • • . • . . . . . . . . . • • • • • 4.99
602 Melrose • • • • . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . 4.96
334 Covina . • • • . . . . • . • • • . • • . . • 4.9S
4Sl Montebello . . . .. .. . .. . • • .. 4.95
S82 Rialto . • • • • . . . . • • • . . • . . • • • 4.94
625 Angeles Mesa . .. . .. .. • .. .. • 4.94
819 Frank S. Land .. .. .. • . .. .. 4.92
302 Santa Lucia .. .. • .. .. .. .. • 4.88
69S Meudell . . • • . . • . . . . • • . . . • • 4.88
222 Roseville • . . . . • • . . . • • • . . . • • 4.86
484 Albert Pike .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . 4.8S
351 Palestine • • . . • . . . • • . . . . . . • • 4.84
241 Santa Ana • • . . . • • • • . . . . . . • 4.82
402 Brawley . . • • . . • . • . . . . . . . . • 4.82
143 Franklin . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • 4.81
764 Heritage • . . . . .. .. . . .. • ... • 4.79
447 Torrance • • • • . . . . . . • . . . • . • 4.78
25 Georgetow n .. .. • . .. .. • .. .. 4.77
S76 El Cajon Valley . . . . . . . • . • 4.74
647 Hawthorne • • . . . • . . . . . • . . • 4.74
191 Marin • •. •• •• . .• . .. . . • . . . . 4.73
198 Wilmingto n .. .. .. • .. .. .. .. 4.72
571 Francis K. Shattuck . • . . . . . • 4.72
794 Mt. Wilson • • • • . . • . • . • • . • • 4.72
804 Moreno Valley • • . . . . • • . . • 4.71
S21 Orinda • • • . • • . . • . . . . . . . . . . 4.69
600 LYJ?~O?d .. .. .. .. • .. .. .. .. 4.69
774 Waikiki ..... .... .. .• .. . ... 4.69
587 Valley Forge .. .. .. .. .. • • .. 4.68
61 Live Oak .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. • 4.67
319 Hollenbeck .. .. . . .. .. . • .. . 4.67
598 Pearl Harbor . .. .. . .. .. .. .. 4.67
397 Rising Light . .. . .. .. .. .. .. 4.66
641 J. A. Foshay .. .. .. .. .. .. • • 4.66
811 Woodland Hills .. • .. . .. .. .. 4.6S
701 Santa Ynez Valley • • • . . . . • . 4.64
761 Josiah W. Roller .. .. . .. .. • 4.63
574 S. W. Hackett • • .. .. .. . .. • 4.61
60S Glassell Park .. .. • .. .. .. .. • 4.61
287 Winnedum ah .. .. • .. .. .. .. 4.59
616 R. E. Dolley • .. .. .. .. .. .. • 4.59
730 Polaris • • • • • • . • . . . • • • • • • • • 4.S9
273 Anchor • • • • • • • . . • . . • • • • • • • 4.S8
4S5 Golden West .. .. .. .. .. .. . • 4.S8
611 Canoga • • • • . • . . • • • . • • . • • •• 4.58
S28
778
376

Averag•
Amount
Lodge
Per JCember
No.
57 Santa Rosa • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • 4.57

80 Ione.... .......... ........ 4.S6
512 Palms ••••• ••• •• ••• • ••. • •• 4.56
338 San Jacinto .... ... .. .. .... 4.5S
461 Argonaut-A rgonne . . • • . • • • • 4.55
534 Forest Hill • • • • • .. . • . • • . . • • 4.52
635 Riverside • • • . • • • • • • . . • • . • • 4.52
646 Metropolit an .. .. .. .. .. • • .. 4.52
220 Downey • • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • 4.49
286 Paso Robles • • • • • . . • • .. • • .. 4.49
192 Santa Barbara .. • .. .. • • .. .. 4.48
356 Mill Valley • • . . • • • • . . . . • • • • 4.48
407 La Mesa .. • .. .. .. • .. . .. .. • 4.47
437 Lancaster • . • . . • • . . • • • . • • . • 4.46
168 Redwood City .. • • .. • • .. .. 4.45
173 Elk Grove .. • • .. • . . .. • • • .. 4.45
678 Altadena • • . • . . • . . . . • • • . • • 4.4S
627 Lamanda Park .. .. .. .. .. .. 4.44
7S7 Channel • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • . • 4.44
818 Great Lights • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4.43
S89 Kauai • •• ••• • •• • . .. . •• •••• 4.42
S72 James Madison .. .. .. .. .. .. 4.41
S94 Service . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4.41
441 Coronado • • • • . . • . • . • • • • . • • 4.40
498 Stockton • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • 4.40
3S San Diego • • • • . • . . . • . • • . • • 4.39
246 Pomona • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • 4.39
792 Millbrae . . . . . . • • • • • • . . • • • • 4.39
408 Sierra Madre .. . .. • .. .. .. .. 4.37
738 Arvin .......... .......... 4.37
320 South Gate • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • 4.36
477 Temblor . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • 4.36
S04 Seaside . . • • • . . • . . • • • • . • • • • 4.36
S67 Searchligh t • • . • • • • • • • . . • • • • 4.36
696 Crossroads • . . • • • . • . • • • • • . • 4.35
43 Hiram .......... .......... 4.34
629 Fairview • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • 4.34
734 Kit Carson • • • • . • • • . . . • . . • • 4.34
214 San Buenavent ura • • . • • • . • 4.33
343 San Fernando .. .. ......... 4.32
6S4 Jordan • .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. • 4.32
368 Unity .......... .......... 4.31
40S Moneta .. .. .. .. . • .. • .. . .. 4.31
448 Mount Dia.blo .. .. .. .. • •• .. 4.31
709 Lorenzo .. • .. .. . • .. .. • .. .. 4.31
2S9 Evergreen • . • • . . • • . • • • . • • • 4.29
762 Coastside . • • .. .. • • . .. .. .. • 4.29
815 Mount Baldy • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4.29
621 The Gardens • • • • • • • • • • • .. • 4.27

153

Average
Amount
Lodge
Per Member
No.
147 Eel River • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4.26
339 Fullerton • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • 4.26
379 Fillmore • • • . . • • • • • • • • • . . • • 4.26
789 Oak Plains • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. 4.26
421 Inglewood .. • • .. .. • • • .. • .. 4.25
462 Paul Revere • • • • . . . • . • • • • • 4.24
3S8 Golden State • • • • • . • • • • • . • • 4.23
6S3 Fontana • . . • • • . . • • • • • .. • • • 4.22
663 Ojai ••• • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 4.21
812 Triad .......... .......... 4.21
S85 Mancheste r • • • • . . • • • • . . • • • 4.20
390 Imperial • • . • • • . . • • • .. . . • • • 4.19
392 West Lake • .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. 4.19
603 Dimond • • . . • • • • . . . . • • • . • • 4.19
26 El Dorado • • • . . • . • . . • . . • • • 4.18
21 Hawaiian .. • . • . . . . • .. .. • •• 4.17
486 Caledonia . . .. . . . . • • • . .. • .. 4.17
267 Galt • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • 4.16
33S West Gate . • • . . . • • . • • . • • • • 4.16
644 Lomita • • • . . • . . • • • • . • . . . • • 4.16
666 Reseda • • • • • • . . • • . . • . • • • . • 4.16
767 William Rhodes Hervey • • • 4.16
S44 Glendale • • • • • . • • . . • . • • . • • 4.15
194 Mountain View • • . • • . . • • • • • 4.14
S37 Utopia • • • • • • • • • • . . • • . • • • • 4.14
200 Truckee .. • . . • .. • .. .. .. • .. 4.13
425 Holtville • .. .. .. .. .. • • • .. • • 4.12
478 Thousand Oaks • . • • • • • • • • • . 4.12
40 Sacrament o . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4.10
347 McKinley • • • • • • • • . . . . • . • • • 4.08
406 Burbank • • • . . . • • • . . . • • • • • . 4.07
123 Sotoyome . . • • • . • • . . • • . • • • 4.06
479 Golden Rule .. .. .. .. • • .. .. 4.06
SSl Lakeshore . • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • • 4.06
209 King David's .......... .... 4.05
558 Point F'mni.n .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 4.04
619 Neptune . .. .. .. ... ........ 4.04
670 Greenleaf • . • . . . • • • • . . • • • • • 4.04
570 Military Service • • . • • • . • • • • 4.03
609 Provident • • • • • • . . . • . . . . • • • 4.03
689 Pohona .. • .. .. .. • • .. . .. • .. 4.03
70S El Cerrito • • . . • • • • . . • • . • . .. 4.03
799 Clairemon t Mesa • • • • . • • • • • 4.03
827 Kem River Valley . • • • . • • • 4.03
584 Harding • • • .. • • • • • • • • . • • • • 4.01

Sl Illinoistow n • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • 4.00

328
809

Redondo • • • • • .. • • • • • • . . . • • 4.00
Los Alamitos • .. • . . • • • • • • . • 4.00

The following Lodges have attained Service Roll status by average

member contributions of between $3.00 and $3.99:
6S6 Citrol •.•.•••.•• ..•••••••. $ 3.99
144 Oriental .. . .. .. • .. .. • .. • .. 3.98
32S Consuelo • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • 3.98
732 San Juan .. .. • .. .. .. • .. . .. 3.98
632 Normal Heights • • • • • • • • • • 3.97

3S2 Sunset .. ...... .......... . 3.96
482 Clarence F. Smith • • • • • • • • • 3.96
139 Crockett .. • • • .. .. • . • .. .. .. 3.9S
S6S West Adams .......... ... • 3.94
S19 Euclid .. • .. • • .. .. • • .. • .. • 3.93

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
Amount
No.
Lodge
Per Member
299 Liberty . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.92
S90 Compass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.92
78 Calaveras • . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . 3.91
306 Ashlar........ . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.90
721 Home ..••.......•.•...... 3.90
622 Atwater . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 3.89
724 San Ramon Valley . . . • . . . • • 3.89
771 Mission Bay . • . . . . • . . . . . . • 3.89
101 Clay . .. . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.88
374 Jewel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.87
381 Oceanside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 .8 7
396 Apollo . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.86
S2S George Washington . . . . . • . . 3.86
61S Hemet • •. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.86
349 Sequoia . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.8S
37S Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.8S
391 East Belt • . • . . . . . . . . . . . • • • 3.8S
417 Clovis . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.84
6S2 Crescenta Valley • . . . . . . . . . 3.84
27S Oakdale . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 3.83
808 Scepter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 .83
668 San Gorgonio . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.82
608 Granada . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.81
226 San Mateo . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 3.80
313 Tehachapi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.79
431 Alpha • •. . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.79
71S Magnolia Park . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.79
393 Balder . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.78
212 South San Francisco . . . . . . . 3.77
336 Fruitvale . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.77
440 Standard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.77
703 Westchester . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.77
344 Starr King • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.76
64 Natoma . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.7S
497 Fremont • • . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . • 3.7S
S41 Henry Morse Stephens . . . . . 3.74
688 Oildale • • • . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . 3.74
9 Corinthian . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • 3.73
237 Guadalupe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.73
117 Concord . . • . . . • • . . . . . . . . • . 3 .68
134 Vacaville . . . . . . . • . • . . . • . . . 3.68
614 Larchmont . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.68
19S Buckeye . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.67
204 Salinas • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.66
289 Elsinore . • . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . 3 .66
S49 Justice . .. • . • .. .. . . . . . . . . . 3.66
18S Claiborne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.6S
224 Bakersfield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.64
274 Arroyo . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.64
S02 Harbor • • . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 3.64
736 Lemon Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.64
741 Tyre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 3.64
12 Yount . . • • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 3.63
so Forbestown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.63
330 Kilauea • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.63
129 Nicolaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 3.62
S63 South Park . . . • . . . • . . . • . . . 3.62
690 San Carlos .. . • . . . • . . • . . . . . G.62

Average
Amount
Lodge
Per Member
No.
787 Westminster • . . . . . . . • . .. . • 3.62
233 Calistoga . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 3.61
31S Norwalk • • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • 3.61
113 Eden . . . . . •• •. . . . • .. . . . . •• 3.60
380 Huntington Beach . . . . . . . . . 3.60
411 Perris . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3 .60
S92 Tujunga . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.60
687 Vista . . . . • .• . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.60
748 Highland . . . • . . . . . . . • . • . . . 3.S9
203 Confidence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.S8
208 Rio Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 3.SS
634 Victorville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 3.S7
692 Travelers . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.S7
30 Golden Gate Speranza . . . . . • 3.S6
419 Upland • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 3.SS
601 Grizzly • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 3.SS
331 Pacific Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.S4
SS7 Hermosa • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.S4
S03 Point . . • . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . 3.S3
S79 Warren G. Harding . . . . . . . • 3.S3
7Sl Hamilton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.S3
473 Blythe • • . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . 3.S2
801 Koolau . . . • • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 3.S2
S27 Covenant • • • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 3.Sl
798 Ashland . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.Sl
360 San Francisco-Victory . . . . 3 .SO
S20 Ionic . . . . • . • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . 3.SO
26S Orland . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.49
489 East Bay . . . . . . • . . • . • • . . . . 3.48
10 San Jose • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.47
S09 Benjamin Franklin . . . . • • . • 3.47
476 Coachella . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.46
718 San Lorenzo Valley . . . . . . • • 3.46
22 Occidental . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.4S
746 Soquel . . . . • • • • . • . . . . • . . . . 3.4S
186 Evening Star . • . • . . . . . . . . . . 3.44
760 Lakeside • • . • • • . • • . • . • . . . . 3 .44
783 Mojave • • • . • . . . . . • • • . . . • . . 3.44
14 Temple . . • • • • • . . • . . . • . • . • . 3.43
221 Inyo • . • . . . . • . •. . • •. . . . • . . 3.43
41S Silver Trowel • . • . . . . . . . . . . • 3.42
613 Three Pillars . • . . . . . . . . . • . • 3.42
633 Poinsettia . . . • . • . . . . • . • • . . . 3 .42
6S7 John D. Spreckels • • . . . . . . . 3.42
232 Janesville . . . . . . • • • . . . . • . . . 3 .40
369 Ocean Park . • • • . • • . . . . . • . • 3.40
480 Fellowship • • • • • • . . • • • . . . • . 3.40
236 Hills Ferry . . • . . • • . . . . . . . • 3.39
64S A. F. E. Irwin • • • • . • . . . . . • 3.38
684 Trona . . •• • . . . . . . . • . . •. . . . 3.38
S4S Veritas-Jonathan . • • . . • . . . • 3.37
803 The Gabilan . • . • • . . • . . . • . • 3.37
469 Yorba Linda . . . . • . . . . . . . • • 3.36
S88 El Sereno • • . . . . . . . . . • . . • • 3.36
749 Merced • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • 3.36
6S Amador . • • . . . . • • . . . . . . • . • 3.3S
93 St. Helena .. . .. .. • . . . .. .. . 3.35
301 Ontario • • • .. . • . • • . • . . • . • • . 3.35

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Average
Amount
Lodge
Per Member
No.
387 Coalinga . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.3S
470 Lincoln . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.3S
SOl Westwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.3S
680 Carmel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.3S
S16 Taft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.34
S3S Alexander Hamilton . . . . . . . 3.34
628 Truth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.34
810 Victoria Palms . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.34
111 Chico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 3.33
104 Le;tlngton .............. '" 3.32
SS Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.31
371 Le Progres De L'Oceanie . . . 3.31
73S Oasis of Mara . . . • • • . . . . . . 3.31
691 Indian Wells Valley . . . . . . . • 3.30
822 Boron . . . . . . . . • •. . . . . . . . . . 3.30
29S Mount Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . 3.29
383 Orosi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 3.29
384 El Centro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 3.29
6S8 Livingston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.29
676 Willow Glen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.29
41 Martinez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.28
SS4 Educator • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.28
316 Sanger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.27
323 Whittier . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 3.27
673 Far West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.27
·s31 Alexandria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.26
soo Roosevelt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.2S
722 George E. Tutt . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.2S
807 Conejo Valley • • . . . . . . . . . . 3.2S
131 Woodbridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.24
424 Exeter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.24
262 Lompoc . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . 3.23
19 San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.21
297 Dunsmuir . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.21
442 Blackmer . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 .21
626 Chula Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.21
243 Eucalyptus . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . 3 .20
436 Claremont . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.20

155

Average
Amount
No.
Lodge
Per Member
228 Athens . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.19
708 Seafaring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 3 .19
8 Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.18
68 Morning Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.17
401 Bay View . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.17
333 Alta . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.14
260 King Solomon's-Seaport . . . . 3.13
403 Ye~~a Buena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.13
33 Op Ir • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3.12
791 General Henry H. Arnold . . 3.12
S7S Fort Crook . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 3.11
607 Sojourner . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 3.11
S8 Union . . . . • •. .. . . . . . . . . . . . 3.10
207 Anaheim . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . 3.10
346 Palo Alto . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • 3.10
4S8 Henry S. Orme . . . . . . . . . . • 3.10
499 Capital City . . . . • . . . . . . • . . 3.09
682 Barstow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.09
308 Monrovia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.08
60 Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . • •. . . . . 3.07
89 Rose's Bar • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.07
677 Liberal Arts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.07
700 Ponderosa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.07
737 Hillsborough . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.06
802 Yucca Valley . . . . . . . . . . . • . 3.0S
217 Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3.04
72S Saint John's . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 3.04
777 Pinnacle . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 3.04
793 M'.LY'.l .••••• · •••••••• •• • ••
169 1111SS10_n • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
132 Smcenty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • .
201 Silveyville . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .
38 Santa Cruz . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . •
216 Doric . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . • • . . •
268 Durant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
S07 El Segundo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
723 Acalanes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .
128 Visalia • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . .

3.04
3 .03
3.02
3.02
3.01
3.01
3.01
3.01
3.01
3 .00

CONCLUSION

It is obviously impossible to give due and adequate credit to' all who

participated in the Homes Endowment Program this past year. We realize
more and more that this program receives the support of every active member
of California Masonry.
Our Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner, has given
his full support to every phase of our program. We gratefully appreciate his
leadership, suggestions and wise counsel.
The Grand Lodge officers, Past Grand Masters and Grand Lodge comniitteemen all did their share to assist us; to them we extend our thanks.
The Grand Lecturer, Assistant Grand Lecturers, Inspectors, Masters and
!Wardens, Lodge Secretaries and Endowment Committee men of the Lodges
ifepresented a solid front and total effort for which we are deeply appreciative.
Finally, our thanks to the 112,019 brethren who contributed the $936,637

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for our permanent Endowment Fund and to the dedicated members of thia
Board who contributed unselfishly in time and effort.
To all, thanks for helping to insure the continuance of love, care and
security for our elderly at Decoto and our children at Covina.
Respectfully submitted,
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, Chairman
CARL A. GREEN

w. H. JOHNSON
RICHARD A. }OLLY
GASTON C. AUBINEAU
JOHN STEIGER
JACK F. BOWLEY
THOMAS K. H. WONG
GARNET RINGSMITH
HOWARD M. MAGn.L
}AMES B. BOUICK
CALVIN L. HEIM
GERALD E. GRUNERT
SmNEY I. GROSSMAN
HENRY 0. HALL

EN!UlWMENT FUNIJ

JULY t, 1970 • JUNE 30, 1971
(The Lodge designation Indicates connection by
Interest but not neeenarlly by 1118111bershlp)
GIFTS AND DONATIONS

llTATES: Eugene llactoy Beach

llary Bell w. Brendel
Jay c. Christensen
llartln o. Chrlstopherson
Stephen R. Coffee
Jeanette E. Daley
Frank Davis
Bess t e Em II y Edmundson
Carrie E. &nerson
Patrick H. Frayster
Irene J. Harri•
LOlllH S. Hiil
Rose 11. HIMI
Jul la Hinkle
John Harold Jardin
Oscar II. 11811er
Anna B. Lautan
John A. Leslie
01 Iver Locke
Charles ft.. Lingle
Victor H. llllter
Lindley c. llyers
Ellzabeth L. Helson
Henry I rwln Randall
Fred W. llllnk
"-s .J•cob llaalls
Edith Hatllda Raynolds
. Harry R. Schroeder
Bertha Sherwood
Tll lie llarle Shull
Joseph Earl Spicer
Alfred J. Strei
Orvil le c. Sweeney
Ylrgll Talbott
Certnide Tel Iner
Orno E. Tyler
Vllllmn E. Ulrich
Donald H. Wei ls
Rachael Wlnsby_

BOARD MEMBERS
DONALD H. ExTER
LEIGH R. PIERCE
WU.LIAM A. LETCHER
}AMES F. BoLTMAN
H. FRANCIS LEWIS
RALPH WINTERS

RoBERT E. Hu.Ts
ROBERT T. Du.LON
SAN CHADNOW
HENRY E. NOGUCHI
ALLEN J. LocKWOOD
LoN Du BoSE
RUSSELL E. HARRIS
PHU.LIP HAIG

Referred to Committee on Finance.

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND
Contributions through tire Lodges
For Years Ended June 30th

1,000,000

800,000

700,000

.....- -0

I •

900,000

__,,)

~~

)I '\~~

_.J~
--

4.....-

600,000

500,000 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971

157

11rsr:1

(Fr.esno Lodge No. 2H7)
(Tehachap 1 Lodge No. S13)
(Verba_Buena Lodge No. lf03)
(Hadera Lodge No. 280)
(Ubertas Lodge No. li66)

(Valley Forge Lodge No. 587)
(l'ortervllle Lodge No. 303)
(Occl den ta I Lodge No. 22)
(San Pasqua I Lodge No. li52)
(Glendale Lodge No. 5lilt)
(Occidental Lodge No. 22)
(Durant Lodge No. 268)
(Henry S. 01'11111 Lodge No. li58)
~llo Lodge No. 396)

(S011th Park Lodge Ho. 563)
(Presidio Lodge No. 3Sli)
(Sacr-nto Lodge No. lfO)
(Silver Trowel Lodge Ho. 415)
(Btaclcnier Lodge Ho. li'12)
(Alexander H•llton Lodge llo. 535)
(Kinion Bay Lodge No. 771)

Aero Square Club of Autonetlcs
Heward c. B•kar
Miibert .J1y Bolton
ti. Preston llrown
Gertrude 8. Butler
HB111Pton s Ruby Cl Ifton
Ernest H. C09
LeRoy Conne 11 y
llrs. Ella Dal lenip
Brian II. Dllllngh1111
llr. a. llrs. Ferd I nand Frend!
IJ9ER Squere a. l:Qmpass Club
Grace Grant
Hoodwl nkers Club
Walter w. Joseph
A. c. a. Lita Klar
Kaiser Steel Corp.•lnd. Eng. Dept.
Llbniscope Aid Club
.J. Bnice Lltt:Mn
Long Beach llasonlc Club
Chester R. llacPhee
Robert L. llarsha 11
Bertha !lay
Horman s. Hell•

$ Z,088.60

Sli3.66
900.00
232,814.85
3,Bli9.89
lt,,65 •.lt8
50,901.09
2,060.00
3,'129.lilJ
IS,891.37

soo.oo

3,22-S.OO
3,750.00
2,000.00
lit ,407.70
2,000.00
1,!1'17.39
2,500.00

4.oo

3,3n.i.,
2,000.00
5.87
25,506.6.li
1,000.00
2,106.67
1.i.1
8,'i93.88
906.88
f,6'13.10
53,"85,59
7,215.01
2,600.00
2,598.17
500.00
7,697 .lfll.
250.00
100.00
1,000.00
23,31iJ1.00

Margaret A. llllllgan
National Cash Raglstar Co.
Order of Eastern Star, Lallanf Chapter No. 8
Order of Eastam Star, Hannnlta Chapter No.,Z.:t
Order of Golden Sllpper, H.H.C., Daleth CMpter"
Order of Golden SI lpper, H.H.c., It.I Cheptar
Order of Golden Slipper, 11.H.c., PE Chapter
Order of Golden SI lpper, 11.H,C., Resh Chapter
Order of Golden Slipper, 11.H.c,, Yod Chapter
PetalltM High lWelve Club
Gertnide S. L. Phil lplOa
Arthur Robert Pratt
Mrs. A. D. Reider
llrs. c. A. Rlloney
Honian Rose
VIII laai Sakal
Albert s. s...ets
San llarlno F011ndatfon
Santa Rosa High Twelva Club
Strauss Foundation
Mii dred G. '1111ttersa11
TRW Employees' Clllrlty Organization
Louis A. Webster
Vestern Union Telegraph Co.,
lilpl~ 1 C:Ontrlbutlon

158

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MEMORIALS (Continued )

MEMORIALS
O. D. Abbott
Lily Abercromb ie
George Elisha Adams
John J. Adams, Sr.
Vesta Adams
Ethe I Adamson
Albert Adler
Julia Ager
Percy George Ahearn
Charles Fred Albright
Claire V. Allen
Ethan Allen
John Louis Allen
Paul Allen
George Alloway
Harvey James Allstead
Clara V. Ahton
Richard Alter
Leonerd Ames
/1emle Andersen
Al 11 e Anderson
Archibald 11. Anderson
Camilla Anderson
Cora Anderson
Earl A. Anderson
Fred Anderson
Sara E. Anderson
Clara W. Andrews
Gordon W. Andrus
Kurt Edgar Apel
Edward Appe 1
Alfred D. Artlngton
Cecil B. Armstrong
H. /1axwel 1 Armstrong
Justin Ray Arnspige r
Jesse Arthur
Joseph L. Ashbaugh
Euclid Henry Aston
Basil John Auburn
George Henry Austin
Herbert R. Austin
Hunter O. Austin
George A. Babb
Frederick Baer
George F. Balley
LeRoy C. Bakeman
Chauncey William Baker
Rolland Baker
Seldon Baker
Percy Loren Banbury
Charles Baptle
Dewey Barber
Zeddy B. Barker
Thomas H. Barrows
Lloyd P. Bass
Putnam A. Bates
Augustine Battaglia
Rose Bauer
A. D. Baxley
William K. Bayer
Stewart Beach
Steven Beedle

Paul A. Beese
E. I, Beeson
Fred Christian Behring
Harry Garfield Bell
Wllliam H. Bell
Clarence Bennett
Richard H. Bennett
Jane Bennltt
Elizabeth c. Bentley
Nlles Bentley
Claude Pierre Berhouet
Herman Berns
Anna Berry
Ben Berry
Hilda H. Berry
W!l llam Henry Berry
/1ary BI 11 I ngs
Roy Blnyon
John L. Bird
William c. "Bird
Stephen A. Black
Terence c. Blackwood
Don k. Blake
/1arle Bloomfiel d
Erving H. Blum
George Blum
Harry T. Bodine
J. Carl Boesch
Vlnta Boise
I rve c. Boldman
Jay E. Bolling
Edward W. Bondy
John Andrew Boolln
Ira Boone
Curtice W. Booth
Ethel c. Borda
Bruce L. Borders
Theo J. Bose
Harold Bowhay
Jack Bowman
Jessie Bowman
/1rs. E. D. Box
Elizabeth 11ay Bradley
/1ary A; Bradford
Nettle Jane Branlger
Sidney Reeves Brannaman
Carl Brask
Fred Bratton
Hendel Braun
Carl Breer
Frank Gus Bremer, Sr.
Alfred F. Breslauer
Daniel A. Brett
George Br I ght
Leland k. Bright
Mrs. Roy Brounstel n
Clyde B, Brown
F. Porter Brown
Gerald H. Brown
Homer J, Brown
Thad Brown
'Wll 11 am Brown

159

Fred A. Brubaker
Lambert H. Brummeler
Alvin Bruner
Maurice A. Buckley
11urlel Jane Buckley
Harry E. Bultmann
Theodore F. Burgess
Shannon Burke
Leonard R. Burkhafdt
v. 11. Burrows
Kate Burson
Kenny Bush
Lyle R. Butz
Paul B. Syrd
John E. Caldwel I
Dorothy Allen Cameron
Bruce Camp
Emerick Camp
Gaylord /1, Campbell
George S. Campbell
Bridson Edward Cannon
James Clyde Cargile
Grace Carson
Leo Stanley Carter
Walter Owen Castello
Abner W. Castleber ry
Alan C. Cates
Judith Ann Cates
Rubye 11. Cates
Chester A. Caufield
John Victor Chaille
Grace Chand I er
Floyd Chapman
Bertha Chappa 11
George E. Chase, Sr.
Katie Chazanow ltz
Paul Chenault
VI rglnla Chi Ids
11rs. L. H. Christens en
Evelyn Christens en
James Chrystal
Vernon Russel Churchill
Roscoe N. Clark
Vernon W. Clark
Lefa Ray Clawson
Lloyd E. Clendenin g
Hanford Logan Clews
Frank G, Clowes
Albert R. Cochener
Otto Marion Coffey
Cawthern Chester Cole
Theodore Melzar Cole
Victor Lawren Cole
Lee Coleman
Milton Harry Coleman
Wallace L. Coleman
Lester Collett
Russell H. Colllande r
Dorothy Co 11 ins
Frank J, Collins
Robert W. Colton
Rupert N. Combs

Ralph /1, Conckltn
Wtl 1 lam Patrick eonnel 1
Frank Connelly
John R. Connors
Edward Eugene eonso1e
Jack Conway
George Seber Cook
J - • Wl111aa Cook
Albert D. Cooley
George Roland eooper
.Joe E. eooper
Ray Lewi• Copeland
llarold L. Corbett
John K. Corey
Douglas w. Cork
llaorge W, eor.-1\
Mn. Larry Count•
'llrgll Coverstone
~ert L. covey
.1-1 D. Cowie
Merrill D. Coy
Delvin Craddlck
l!obert Cra 1n
ti.nry eurt cr-r
01 tver Crother
f. H1111!1 ton Crout•
11osa crug
e o t - crug
lllll I• R. Cruickshan k
Harry c. Cruse
Edgar David Culver
Edward L. Culver
Loyd cunn I ngham
MI na cunn1ngham
Ethel Curtez
llllllem A. Curtin
Martin Anton Dabovlch, Jr.
Herman c. Dahlenburg
John R. Da11erup
Harry c. Dari Ing
Malvin Dauber
Henry Ervin Davenport
Arthur c. Davis
Arthur H. Davi•
Harry c. Davis
John o. Davis
Ruth Marjorie Davis
Paul De Annand
Hell Adrian DeDontney
Henry de Klark
Lincoln Edward Del 1 1 Orto
Henry F. Del\arla
Charles Wll 1 lam Dempsey
Frankl In Preston Deman
Clay Denton
Thedo de Pass
Lesl le Warren Desavedo
Edi th DeWI tt
Ethel L. Di 11y
Clara Dixon
Eugene DI xon
Hr. Dobkins

EcMltrd Greenlee Dolch
Joe Dorfman
Alvin A. Dorian
Grace Dort
Alfred A. Dove
Lynne Ellen Dow
1rene Dowe 11
John R. Downs
J - s p, Dressler
Rlc:hard A. Drew
Ed F. Dunbar
Alexander Duncan
Phil lip J. DuM
Andrew N. Dupulch
Hoses D. Durbin
Robert w. Dutton, Sr•
Helen Eddy
Sarah Edelson
Luvena Edm 1s ton
at Iver Reese Edwards
Stanley P. Edwards
Hrs. H. L. Eggleston, Sr.
Selma Eklof
R. M. E111ott
Hubert E111 s
Harold E111•
William Harold E1111
Thomas J. E111 son
Russe11 H. Ells
Nelson Everett Endicott
Ray J. Engelke
Wl111em P. Engle, Sr.
John M. Engl lsh
Martha Erc:k
Roy Erickson
Clara H. Esch
Benjamin B. Eshbaeh
Darius Eshoo
Walter M. Estelle
Frances Eudey
Hrs. Evans
Richard Evans
Habel E. Fabry
Erick L. Faigin
Joe fanger
James Shaw Farquhar
George /1. Farwell
Herman Feight
Zachary G. Fenley
Angelo M. Ferrari
w. Earnest Feutz:
Adam Ftlanc
Jay D. Fincher
WI 11 lam Findley
Jacob Fl nger
Otis L. Finley
clatln tinery Fish
John Fisher
Rlc:hard Fisher
Wenneth Fitzgerald
Albert A. F. Fledderman
Robert
Flemln9

w.

llll 11• Asbury Fletcher
Laurence Alexander Fl Int
ThOlllllS Fo lster
c. Burc:h Foraker, Jr,
Alexander Leroy Ford
Roy Eugene Ford
Helene Forgle
Shirley Clinton Foney
Themas Forster
Fred Foth
Harry A. Fouch
John R. Fox
Frederick Ellsworth Frank, Jr •
John David Frankl
John Henry Frankl
Arthur c. Fredrickso n
Francis Maurice Freeborn
David Tobey Freedman
Donald H. Freaan
L1oyd French
Enoch Kl"ke Frier
Otto H. Frisbee
Gloria Frucht
Theodore J. Fu\ 1•
John Adam Funk
Ku rken Ga gos
Robert Watson Galbreath
Frank J • Gargano
Grace Hope Garlock
Mansfield White Garrett, Sr.
Carrie Garretson
Lester Lloyd Garrison
Garland Raymond Gay
H11 ton c, Ger 11 cher
Elner s. Gerulff
Helen L. Getz:
Clyde Gibbs
Edison p. Gibson
Howard Donald Glddlnge
"ary H. Gilchrist
Joseph Henry Giles
WI 11 lam Gil ray
Theres I GI rard
Chester Glasson
Genevieve Gledhl 11
John w. Goddard
Forman Stanley Godley
Louts H. Goecken
Maude Forsyth Goff
Wll 1 lam Gold
Huret E. Goldsberry
Wll llam c, Golson
Newton A. Goodvin
w. e. GoOdwln
Scott T. Gordon
c. H. Gould
Edward J. Graff
George F. Graff
Steve Gran1Der
Bartlett S. Grey
Arthur W. Green
Joseph Qreven, Sr•

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MEMORIALS (Continued )
Arthur Jay Grier
Carl Walter Groshell
Freeman E. Grover
Ward William Grush
Arnold Haas
Fred B. Hack
!mast Victor Hagadone
Roy L, Hahne
Clarence E. Halber
Leroy Ernest Ha,bert, Jr,
Lee O. Hale
Florence Hall
Glen Hilton Hamlltpn
James Paul Hampton
L. Halcol11 Hansen
Albert Wilfred Hardy
Hartin F, Harjes
Rubert Bonham Harlan
Ellsworth J, Hanner
Robert Lee Harper
Genevieve Harle Harris
Horris Harris
Frank H. Hart
Joseph B. Hart
Oliver Ernest Hartman
Eilllla It. Hartter
Hrs. Harold W. Hasbrouck
Wiil iam L. Hastings
Sylvia Hatter
Sayle Haughton
Hrs. Raymond Haun
Leslie F, HM!es
Claude Hayes
tee 11 C. Head
Worth Headley
Hulda Hedburg
Joseph C, Hehn
George I. Heinold
Harry W. Helfrich
H. Douglas Henderson
Johnnie Ruby Henderson
Virginia Henderson
Hrs. Biii Hendren
Hark Hendricks on
Hrs. Albert Hennann
Harry Hersh
Clyde Edward Hertz
Harcourt Hervey
Francis J, Herz
Lucille Hickey
Qiarles
Higginson
Roy Lee Hiii
Earl H. HJI !er
Hrs. Herman F. Hitter
VI 1111111 V, HI lier
Vil Ilana H. Hll Iman, Jr,
John J, Hink
Nannie Hinman
E. L. Hire
George G. Hoberg
Ingemar E. Hoberg
Karshe ll Hobson

w.

c. Ray Holbrook
J, H. Holcomb
Re!'fe Wlltlem Hol~er
Georga V. Holdernes s
Chester R. Holl~ Sr.
Arthur H. Hollenbec k
Lawrence H. Holt
Erwin v. HOiton
Carol lne.-.Homan
Harry Homan
Boyd C, Hanewood
Owen H. H01T111e
£, Paul Honaker
Ralph Allen Hopkins
Roy Seaton Horton
Alvin A. Horwege
James B. Howard
Violet Howard
Lillie Ida Howe
Kerrill N. Howe
Miriam D. Howe
Walter V. Howe
Al tee White Hoyal
Melvin T. Huber
Clifford James ~uff
Neville G. Huffman
Donald A, Huggard
Harold R. Hulett
Olive Hungerfor d
Paul Hunt
Aqios Francis Hurley
Mylo v.· Hurto
Helen Huskey
Hr. Hutton
Ernest David Hut£on
Fay E, Hutton
Peter Smah Hyan
Gust Vti:icent Hylander
Jean Hyinl
Vesley Ashburn Idol
SteYe lmrlch
Alfred Ray Ireland
c. L. I rtsla
John lrwlne
Paul Leonard lsberg
Chester Albert Jackson
Joseph 8. Jackson
Alfred Clarenc• Jacobsen
Bessie Jacobsdn
Adelaide P, Jager
Richard K. James
Robert s. Jaml&son
Cyrus Janes
Fred ll. Janssen
Herritt Conway Jeffers
Thomas lrvlne Jeffs
Raymond V. Jelley
Elmer J, Jenkins
Kenneth H. Jenkins
Vesley R. Jenkins
Lex Jensen
·
Hitt Jeppson

161

MEMORIALS (Continued )
Roger Va!cot Jessup
Lyle c. Jewett
Clarence A. Johnson
Hugh Johnson
J, A. Johnson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Peggy Johnson
Ralph Johnson
Ray B. Johnson
Sterll ng s. Johnson
William Henery Johnson
Charles Franklin Johnston
Deborah Lucille Johnstod
Alfred
Jones
Alonzo w. Jones
Russell c. Jone1
Samue 1 Jones
Bernard J. Joseph
Rayn1Qnd F. Judy
W. RAy Junk
James Loren Kallam
Abraham Kat..:
Sarah Katz
Freyda Kaufman
James Keddle
Arttiur Eugene Ke,llogg
Adele Harte tcel!y
Joan 1iJ.. tcenda'l 1
Oliver L. Kenfield
Jack Kennedy
Earl Franklin Kenner
George
Kertell
Harry Wayne Kerwin
Charles H. tcetrldge
Frank Thomas King
Ruel Franklin King
John Kirby
John Q, ltl rlcman
I lse Ann Kl rsch
Albert Klein
Arthur E. ltl a In
Wallace H. Knapp
Don Kneeland
Earl w. Knick
Alexander Knight
Goodwin Jess Knight
Vandora Knighting
Herman Edgar Knorr
William Archie Knowles
Ralph J, Knox
Vlll11111 Knox
Washingto n K. Kohnke
Ludwig Clarence Koster
Benjamin Krasow
Margaret Krebs
Adolph tcreuder
Jeffery Kuersten
Walter Hennan Ki.mmert
Harve Kuns
Nathan Kurtz
Pearl Harvin tcyte
John Jacob Lamb

w.

w.

fdwlrd L. Lane
11arry Lange
Everett w. Langley, Sr.
Orphll Langstaff
,\!bin H. Larsen
111chael George Larsen
Charles Leonard Lathrop
ll0b9rt Roy Latimer
,\rdlur Cl-nt Latno
111rle Latno
Ernie s. Lauderbac h
111Dbart D. Laugh! In
John E. La Vallee
Edward 0. Lawhon
David
Lawrence
easp• r H. Laws
s.orge H. Lawson
John D. Leach
a..wrence WI! lard Leavitt
Frenk L. LeBard
S• E. Leddel
Arnold Lees
a.ctor L. Lee
Grace Leeds
!dwln Leist
,\rthur E. Lelthmann
,\rthur Will lam lemberg
Charles W. Lerer
J.,..s Adams Levansale r
Clarence o. Lewis
Gerald s. Levin
Ceorge Spencer Lewis
Grace Lewis
Etta LI ndsay
George LI near
Llltltin Liss
WI 11111111 G. Lloyd
Susan Locks
lorothy El I zabeth Lomax
.aotin Donald LCllllllX, Sr.
Ann D. Lowans
t\11 ca Luns tra
Enid Lunt
Frank L. Luscher
Lenore s. Lyon
John MacGregor
blph Stuart Hactcey
,\lvln E. HacHahon
Charles Ashton HcAlplne
llobert A. McArthur
81 enn l\CAtee
Albert HcCann
Herschell Myres HcCasland
Charles Dean McCaul ley
Garrett H. Mcclanaha n
Leo HcClure
George 01 Iver McCol1<1111
Hartin H. HcCol111
Dorothy HcCorquod ale
Herold James HcCreadle
Paul Htl lard HcCue
Vilt 11111 A, McDonald

w.

George H. McDonough
Dale K. HcDougal.l
Faust HaEl roy
Daryl B. HcGrlff
Angus HcKay
Otto Wll llm Hckln-tey
E. E. Mclain
Fred A. HcHaster
Russe 11 Hdtath
Albert Lee·McNamer
Lawrence P. HcNear, Sr.
John Edward McNeil
Clarice McPherson
Utley Safford McWhorter
Emil Carl Hack
Lawrence H. Macon
Clarence I , Hacy
E<Mln G. Haler
c. E. Hatlachow ltz
Everett Kalona
Roland E. Malouf
John William Halseed
Mrs, A. J. Manasse
Roy J, Handery
Richard Arnold Hanley
Stanley A. Hann
Alan J. Manning.
W. Richard Mannfng
Gerald Ellsworth Harks
Emily Jane Marsan
Wll 11 am ThOmas Marsha 11
John
Martens, Sr.
G. Eugene H~tln
Lucille Hartin
Will lam Alfred Hartin
Walter E, Matney
Lor'l"2 i. Hatschka
Ver! D. Matteson
Arden S. Ha.tthewson
Roy E. 'Hattley
£nmltt E, Heeks
Daniel DeWitt Meredith
Ernest Mettler
Ernest Estel Hetz
Oleta L. Meyer
Richard Heyer
John H. Hiles
Lee D. HI 11
Charles E. Hiller
Florence M!J.ler
Frank HI ller
Joseph Benjamin Hiller
Stephen Collier Hiller
Hrs. Ted A. Millar
Verne H. Mil !er
Emory H. Hilner
I rene H11 ner
Walter I. E. Kinahan
Elmer DeWitt Hlncey
Frank HI neau
Fred w. Hiner
Don Minium

E.

Rose Hintz
Wll lard II. Hlxter
Charles H. Moelter
Caldwel 1 Moore
George Horgan
Jack Morley
Louise Horris
Hyron H. Horris
Julian Francis Morrison
Paul c. Horse
Malvina Morton
Jesse Frampton Mota
Eve! een Hott
Earl Joseph Mulkins
·E<Mard Franc Is Murphy
Francis J, Murphy
Harry E, Murphy
Irma S. Hurray
William Paul Hurray, Ill
Stanley W. Mussell
Granville Hustlon
Harvey Hydl and
Jess Hyers
Frederick WI! tlarn Nagel
Evan R. Nash
Calvin Nations
Anton B. Nelson
Frank Leo Nelson, Sr.
Herman A, Nelson
Neal Ernest Nelson
Leroy D, Nesbit
Edward L. Nettleton
John Christian Netz
James E. Neve
Jess Newby
Abe Newman
Bert Bates Nichols
George D. Nichols
Charles Campbel I Nodd! n
Clair Biederman Noon
Burton J, Norbury
Richard Albert Ny
Fred Nydegger
Marga rat .Oberg
Bertha Ob I ath
Alma Obst
Edgar W. 'Ogden
Archie Olden
Anthony B. Olson
Gus Olson
Harold Duane Olson
Oscar Olson
Albert O'Halley
Annie Ostran
Elizabeth H. Otts
Mrs. Artie Otterson
Louis E. Otto
Charles Hugh Owen
Ralph Paglia
Beaumont C. Patna
Thomas Wiil IBlll Pelmer
Clarence Cleveland Palmore

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
llEllORIALS (Continued)

George Gregory Pa loglou
Ralph Pancoast
Sam H. Paniagua
John Pao
Kargrete Paraker
Dorothy Parent
'Wll 11 am Parke
.J. Roy Parker
Clarence Otto Patten
Don C. Paulus
Charles Arthur Paulsen
John Pavlovich
Leroy Paxson
Robert L, Payne
Charles S. Pederson
Charles W. Peer
Elfrida Penaluna
John Penticoff
VJ 11 lam E. Penturf, Sr,
Eva G. Perry
Hanuel C. Perry.
Dwl ght Steven Person
Jack Tudor Peterson
DeWI tt Pfaeffle
August Pflueger
Ottilie Pflueger
Bert W. Pickens
Wll I lam Pickrell
Harvin Pierce
Myron Pierce
Herold B. Pierson
Betty Plplnlch
Paul Pires
Margaret Pl ut
Alice Pollard
George R. Pollock
Howard L. Pope
Hax Popkens
Charles o. Porter
Michele Harle Potter
Ann K. Potts
George K. Powe 11
Ila rga re t Powe 11
Will lam H. Powell
Thomas Power
Herbert S. Powis
Anthony Prastka
Donald Roy Pratt
Volney H. G. Pratt
Russell H. Pray
Ray Prescott
Earl A. Prevett
A. A. Price
A. J. Price
Alberta Proctor
John Pudlnskl
Horris Pulver
Raymond Qu Inn
Theodore R. Rackerby
William H. Radford
John R. Ragan
Ruby Ralnvllle

Ben Walker Ramsaur, Jr,
Christian P. Rasmussen
Jack Redalje, Sr.
Norman E. E. Reed
Joseph E. Regan
James Clayton Reher
Albert D. Reider
James Rell ly
Oscar Joseph Reiner, Sr.
Simpson Reinhard
Ralph LaVerne·Renshaw
Fred L. Reynolds
Harold N. Richards
LeRoy B. Richards
Richard L. Richards
Katherine S, Richardson
Glenn Richey
Robert J. Rlcket
A. John Riddle
Berret R. Ries
Harold J. Riley
George Ritchie
Edna H. RI tschel
Vivian E. Ritter
William G. Ritter
Horace Samuel Roberson
Avery E. Robertson
Ward Robertson
Louis Robinson
Thomas Arthur Rob I nson
James N. Rogers
Alma Rohrbach
Hans J. Rohwer
Robert F. Roller
Harold Roll Ins
OJ Iver Baxter Roll Ins
Roy Romans
Henry D. Roper
Dora Rosen
Gustav Rosen
Sarah Rosen
D. Wilmer Ross
James G. Ross
Jennie Smith Ross
Arthur Rossberg
Frank Allen Rote
Alfred James Roulo
Helen H. Roush
Daniel T. Rowe
Hannon L. Rowland
Charles E. D. Rupe
Thelma l rene Rushton
Jessie Habel Russell
Prentice Ryals
Rita Saffle
Harold Sandt
Peter P. Sanfll l ppo, Jr,
Ivan C. Satterlee
Demba Lee Runkle Scanlon
Henry Schmierer
Louis Schott
Vernon A. Schreiber, Sr.

163

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
MEMORIALS (Continued
George Evert Schultz
llurray'N. Schultz
Harold Paul Schulz
Frederick
Schwelckhardt
Charles F. Schwoerer
Kaur Ice SeBIJlan
Carrol I Searls
Wll llam G. Seaver
01 Ive Secrest
William Augustine Seher
Helene F, Senften
Robert J, Settles
Jesse B, Shackelford
l lse Ann Sharp
Earl B. Shaw
Simeon Elswick Sheffey
Roy Horton Sheldon
Elmer Shel ton
Hrs. Walter Shew ·
Haro! d Shoemaker
Harold W. Shreve
Norman Slmeral
Edward Fremont Simpson
Charles Sivertsen
John Edward Skidmore
Ralph Leslie Skinner
Ralph H. Smal 1
Al Ice Smith
Donald Hervey Smith
I rvlng II. Smith
J, Bert Sml th
Jack Smith
Josephine B, Smith
Laura Frances Sm! th
Norman E. Smith
Richard E. Smith
Royal L. Smith
Stephen P, Smith
Wesley V. Smith
William L. Smith
William P. Smith
Enma Snyder •
George August Sohst
Mrs. Ennett Solomon
Phil Ip Solomon
Charles Leslie SarmervlHe
Alphonse Sondag
Richard G. Sorrel Is
Edward Lee Soule, Sr,
Glen Souther
Earl Speaks
Ell a Ruth Spear
Alexander Spelger
Guy Spencer
Roy Tr111111n Spencer
John E. Spezlall
Rose Spindel
Ella L, Spiro
Col I le Spreakler
John H. H. Sprigg
Warren Lee Springer
Donald Luke Staniford

w.

Harold C. Staggs
c. L. Stalcup
Florian J, Stark
Lii ll an Steedman
Harold J, Steele
Ernest HcKI nley Stevens
James Stevens
William E. Stevens
Charles Stewart
llenneth Stewart
Ruby Stewart
Gary O, Stice
Robert J, Stiff
Neal Stivers
Al !en Lee Stone
Archibald Ernest Stone
Eva I. Storm
Fred H. Stotts
Vatter A. Stout
Krs. Stover
WI 11 ls E. Stowers
Charles
Strayer
Edna Streeter
Bertha Strong
frank Carlton Strong
Joseph C, Strong
Edward Stuart
Ruby K. Stuart
George Stumpfhaus
Raymond S, Sutton
Jeue R. Swan
Doi I Swanson
)lorby Swanson
l'Ugustus T. Swearingen
tie I en Tamagn I
Homer Tampke
Hubert Balley Tankersley
Flora B. Tarlo
Rlka Raenlne Tassen
Charles Allen Taylor
Horace D. Taylor
Lee Cl I nton Taylor
tlortfmer Taylor
Raymond George Taylor
Andrew A. Terry
lrene Terry
Lloyd Terry
Lawrence H, Tester
Alfred G. Thomas
Cl I fton Graham Thomas
Elbert E, Thompson
Esther Thompson
John Torbert Thompson
TCllll!ly Thompson
James Thomsen
Alfred H. Thanson
D, H. Tibbals
1'Aunt11 Tl ena
Orvil le A. Tinker
John RI cha rd Tl tsworth
Murray H. Todd
Miirjorle S, Togni

w.

Ennett Tompkins
John Wll llam Tcupklns
Julius Toth
Bernice Tourtellotte
Charles R. Trl11111
Mort L, Triplett
Jul !us Trobowltz
Lawrence w. Truss
Guy E. Tul lls
l;arl Oren Tunnell
Robert G. Turnbul I
Charles R••Turton
Mrs. G, H. Turner, Jr.
Orno E, Tyler
Anna Hary Urban
Almlne W. Utt
Wiilard K. Van Anda
Hrs. I. A, Van Brunt
Keith Eugene Vance
Virginia Clark Vandever
Wll llam A. Van Ornum
Joseph Harris Vaughan
George VI nee
Floyd E, VI ncent
L. L. Von Wald
Homer Vos,.
Thomas Brainard Waddell
Ralph Wagner
Stella Wagoner
Vivian Elizabeth Waidelich
William Wainwright
Geoffery Waite
William L. Waldron
Edwin H. Walker
Vincent Wll 1111111 Walkup
Ward G, Walkup
Dolores Walther
Claude Walton
Ina Lee Walton
George E. Wantz
Dorothy Ward
Jean Ward
John w. Ward
Leonard R, Ward
Edmond F. Wasterlaln
WI 11 lam Allen Waten10rth
Henry Cottman Watson
Carl 0, Weare
Harry G, Weaver
Otis Lloyd Weaver
Luther P. Webb
Lewis Henry 'Webber
Earl w. Weber
Thornton D, Webster
Harsha 11 Weece
Carmean H. Welder
Esther Welner
Lee Weinmann
Daniel Weir
George Welch
Harry C, Welll
Charlu E. Vest

Ernest L. Vest
Gerald F. Wetzel
Fred w. Wheeler
8111 White
Donald G, White
Leona White
Hrs. Lloyd F. \lhlte
Lloyd Frederick White, Sr.
Wesley Somers Wickes
Herbert C, Wiese
Wilbur w. 'Wilcox
Edw-drd Wildt
Ora Wllkendorf
Harry Glenn Wilkes
Francis J. Wll lcox
Fred H. WI! I lams
Hortense Williams
Samuel Bell WI I !lams
Kenneth G, Wll ls
Adln L. Wilson
Arthur Walter Wilson
Clare Wright Wilson, Sr,
Edgar Forbes WI Ison
Robert V. Wilson
Wll llam Windsor
A. Wingate
M. J, Wlm
Keith c. Wltmr
Otto WI ttman
Adolph Wohler
Russell G. Wolcott
Judge Wood
R, H. Wood
Walter lloore Wood
George Alexander Woodcock
A. Ralph Woodland
Ralph Everett Woocban
J, D. Wray
A, Glen Wright
Chester 0, Wrl ght
Preston s. Wright
Hugo Wuelflng
David H. Wyatt
Horace L. Wynne
James Theodore Yakes
Walter D. Yancey
Wll llam Yates
Mrs, Wllllmn Yates
Donald
Yeager
Floyd G. Yoder
Ben L. Young
Evert Young
Lewis Riley Young
Walter Young
Mrs. Walter I. Young
Arthur Zlmbleman
Jacob Zlrrmerman
Bl 11 le Zennon
Reuben Sylvester ZlllMll t

w.

164

REPORT OP CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENDOWMENT FUND

No.

No.

Lodge

Membership Contrib.

.............. 3S4
........... 241
734
s Benicia ................ 241
8 Tuolumne .............. 310
9 Corinthian
417
············· 466
10 San Jose ...............
12 Yount ................. 517
13 Nevada ................ 213
14 Temple ................ 312
16 Eureka
404
················
17 La Parfaite
Union ••..•••
9S
1 California
2 Western Star
3 Tehama ••••••••••..••••

Mountain Shade ••..•..•
61
San Joaquin
694
Washington
777
Hawaiian
3Sl
Occidental .............. 4S9
Madison
324
Mariposa
190
2S Georgetown
74
26 El Dorado ••••••••••.••• 302
27 Trinity ••••••.•••.•.•.•• 161
30 Golden Gate Speranza
S63
32 Gold Hill
126
33 Ophir ................. . 125
35 San Diego .............. 108S
37 Howard ••••.••••.•...•• 273
38 Santa Cruz
S27
40 Sacramento ............. 719
41 Martinez
369
42 Los Angeles
1149
43 Hiram
1S6
44 Mount Moriah ••.••.•.•• 241
45 Crescent
206
46 Texas ••••••...•••.•.•• •
73
so Forbestown
lSl
51 Illinoistown
80
SS Suisun
337
56 Volcano
1S2
S7 Santa Rosa •••••••....•• 623
58 Union •••••••...•.••••• • 609
S9 Gravel Range .••..•.•.•• 108
60 Plumas
166
61 Live Oak ............... 719
64 Natoma ••••..•....•.••• 404
65 Amador ••.•••.•••••..•• 100
68 Morning Star ••.•....••• 600
70 Enterprise
364
76 Bear Mountain
88
78 Calaveras
134
79 Humboldt .•.........•.• 469
80 Ione
lOS
81 Yolo •••.•...••••.•••• ••
92
84 Vesper
242
87 Naval ••••••••••••••••• • 970
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

1970

···········
............
..............
...............
..............
............
................

............
··············
············
·················
...............
············
············
.................
................
................

..............
.........
..............
...................
.................

2,533.00
60S.OO
3,947.2S
927.SO
816.SO
1,306.SO
1,682.S8
1,950.00
468.SO
1,194.2S
1,S80.SO
20S.OO
148.00
2,216.SO
2,942.6S
1,844.SO
1,121.SO
676.SO
4S0.7S
2S2.7S
1,086.2S
477.SO
1,963.SO
3S5.SO
316.SO
4,143.58
6S8.00
1,300.17
3,396.SO
1,188.67
11,245.08
619.00
742.00
6SO.OO
72.00
601.7S
324.00
1,170.SO
1,021.67
2,363.SS
1,951.93
287.SO
4S6.00
3,360.SO
1,S12.6S
306.00
920.00
1,142.SO
182.00
4S2.00
841.00
4S6.SO
243.80
249.00
3,720.50

Lodge

1971

1971

1971 Participation

Contrib.

Members%

ll,6S6.00*
686.00
3,917.75*
1,231.00*
987.00*
!,SSS.SO*
1,617.SO•
1,87S.oo•

149
llS
493
188
1S6
140
17S
348
104
142
211
74
21
282
178
146
16S
89
96
S7
174
S3
310

527.SO
1,010.2s•
2,036.92*
190.00
74.00
2,230.2S*
1,875.SO
1,462.00*
1,s8s.oo•
301.00
S49.00
353.00*
1,263.00*
267.00
2,oos.00•
320.00
390.00*
4,7S8.00*
703.00
1,S8S.33*
2,946.SO•
1,212.16•
10,000.62*
676.50*
70S.OO
533.SO
130.SO
S48.2S*
320.00*
1,113.9S*
1,124.10*

2,844.SS*
1,886.00*
307.00
S09.00*
3,3S6.09*
1,S14.25*
334.SO*
1,902.SO•
1,069.SO
229.SO
524.00*
1,080.00

478.50*
212.00
296.00
2,618.73

54
64

582
107
2S6
376
314
300

77
73
92
2S
94

54
lSl
102
472
2S3
42
97
189
212
46
468
1S6
3S
81
187
80
44
48
410

42

48

Avg.
Gift

89 Rose's Bar
91 North Star .............
93 St. Helena ..............
9S Henry Clay
98 Hornitos
99 Yosemite ••.... .........
101 Clay
103 Oroville
104 Lexington
106 Arcata
110 Pajaro
111 Chico
112 Summit
113 Eden
117 Concord
120 Fidelity
122 Alamo
123 Soto)"Ome
124 Table Mountain
126 La Fayette •............
127 Hermann ••••...........
128 Visalia
129 Nicolaus
i31 Woodbridge
132 Sincerity
134 Vacaville
13S Valley
136 Pacific
139 Crockett
140 Curtis
141 Grafton
143 Franklin
144 Oriental
14S Vitruvius ...............
146 Abell
147 Eel River •.............
149 Lassen
ISO Molino , ••• .............
156 Woodland ..............
161 Keystone ••........•....
164 Harmony
166 Excelsior
167 Alameda
168 Redwood City ..........
169 Mission
173 Elk Grove
174 Drytown ...............
17S Antioch
178 Phoenix
179 Mendocino
180 Petaluma
181 Russian River
182 Arbuckle
183 Clear Lake
184 Sierra Valley
18S Claiborne ..............
186 Evening Star ...........
187 Keith
188 Oakland

2.00
1.21
3.21
2.41
4.17
3.4S
.93
2.89
4.77
4.18
1.66

SS

3.56

43
Sl

26
49
30

2.S4
3.12
4.39
2.S8
3.01
4.10
3.28
8.70
4.34
2.93

4S

2.59

34
62
68
4S
67
76
42
39
S8
26

1.79
3.63
4.00
3.31
7.40

54
52
8S

52
46
78
43
40
60
40
76
48
20
42

............... 111

5.34
5.11

67
78
so
34
38
67
49
46
S2
78
34
41
23
42
36
27
51
77
S8
33

39
49

...... ...... 12790

32.93
2.8S
3.18
3.73
3.47
3.63
2.48
3.43

~

5.04

·········· ····
····· ··········
...............

················
.............
....... .........
··········· ·····
·············
··············
..........
...............
·········
···
...........

..................

•

476

98
··················· 370
················ S94
··············
.........
········ 313
3S6
·················
.................. S91
81
················ 422
·················
·
............... 323
S64
················ 467
················ 230
··············
.... ... . 366

·················
···············
············
···············
............. ..
........... ......
············
·····
...............
............ .....
·············
···
...............
···· ············
······ ············
·················

4.57
3.10
2.84
3.07
4.67
3.7S
3.3S
3.17
2.94
2.61
3.91
2.30
4.S6
2.30
1.22
2.70

1970

Membership Contrib.
99
············· 103

•Denotes Htm0r RoU
1971

165

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

···············

20S
137
S33
148
199
82
310
101
437
326
102
98
119
260
134
329
262
237
144
314
48
32
299
379
616
471
lSl
70
371
681
92
313
123
7S
169
36
71
~
178
SS4

323.00
138.00
SOl.00
734.59
269.00
1,088.SO
361.00
1,198.SO
2,S92.77
678.00
984.00
1,901.2S
318.SO
1,710.70
1,200.00
2,878.00
2,lOS.SO
S23.2S

888.7S
283.00
1,000.22
304.00
482.SO
234.20
1,063.00
119.00
1,102.00
1,3S3.7S
339.00
114.00
472.00
91S.OO
409.SO
4S9.00
804.00
319.00
311.67
918.SO
138.00
64.00
1,970.SO
1,030.01
2,648.60
1,330.SO
624.00
276.SO
826.20
2,4S8.42
224.00
760.00
468.00
30.00
S7.00
lS0.00
296.00
171.SO
181.SO
1,6S3.00

1971

1971 Participation

Contrib.

Members %

304.00•
so.oo
425.25•
800.00•
232.00
1,041.SO
380.00•
1,062.SO
1,969.84•
767.SO
998.00
1,970.00*
148.SO
1,519.34*
1,189.SO*
2,904.00*
1,242.SO
934.00*
911.7S
329.00
883.00•
1,600.7S•
S36.00*
644.30*
248.00*
1,139.SO*
175.00
718.00
l,286.7S•
235.00
229.SO
572.00•
1,033.SO*
307.90
675.SO
1,117.00*
2SO.OO
354.SO
712.80
67.00
64.00
1,723.00*
1,0S4.00
2,742.78*
1,426.00*
672.SO*
16S.OO
695.36
1,S12.02
262.00
692.00
632.00•
39.00
&2.SO
22.00
2S9.20*
2S8.00*
162.SO
1,298.00

63
11

64

64
11
so
83
32
32
53
84
28
28
42
77
38

7S
3S
lSl
52
310
164
88
151
458
31
212
so
181
S6
334
SQ
176
38
148
64
224
61
36
18,
120 88
225
42
80
S4
96
48
49
60
179
S8
21
21
98
22
148
4S
33
32
38 39
79
66
110 42
S3
40
94
29
266 100
47
20
66
46
128
41
9
19
30
94
149
so
103
27
284
46
166 3S
7S
so
23
33
134 36
207
30
42
39
124
40
84
68
7
12
21
3
8
2S
3S
4S
60
so
28
139
2S

s

Avg.
Gift
3.07
.49
3.3S
8.89
2.09
2.19
3.88
2.87
3.32
2.4S
2.80
3.33
1.83
3.60
3.68
S.15
2.66
4.06
2.49
1.60
6.45
3.00
3.62
3.24
3.02
3.68
1.73
1.64
3.9S
2.30
2.34
4.81
3.98
2.30

2.0S
4.26

I.OS
2.46
2.27
1.40
2.00
S.76
2.78
4.4S
3.03
4.4S
2.36
1.87
2.22
2.8S
2.21
S.14
.S2
.49
.61
3.6S
3.44
.91
2.34

166

1971

1970

Membership Contrib.
Lodge
292.SO
llS
190 Northern Light
2,207.00
191 Marin ••..•••••..••••••• 478
1,791.SO
192 Santa Barbara ••.•••...• 360
260.SO
88
193 Ferndale
1,7SS.20
194 Mountain View ..•....•• 397
261.00
124
19S Buckeye
361.SO
196 San Simeon ••.•••..•.••• 100
2,969.02
604
198 Wilmington
313.00
2S2
199 Hartley
132
689.00
200 Truckee
394.SO
201 Silveyville •••...•••••.•• 141
329
2,67S.OO
202 Pentalpha
122
417.10
203 Confidence
1,96S.SO
204 Salinas •.•.••...•..••..• S47
174.SO
20S Olivet •..••••.••.••••...• 138
1,321.7S
616
206 Stanislaus
S29
1,782.00
207 Anaheim
S02.00
164
208 Rio Vista
l,423.7S
390
209 King David's
2,188.SO
210 Friendship ••.•..••.....• 649
411.00
161
211 San Benito
864.SO
214
212 South San Francisco
441
2,078.SO
214 San Buenaventura
2,130.00
21S Oak Grove ••.•••..••..• 4S6
319
1,00S.SO
216 Doric
278
SS2.2S
217 Monterey
779.SO
314
218 Mosaic
3,142.21
698
220 Downey
4S8.SO
221 Inyo •••••••......•••••• 141
S26
1,92S.2S
222 Roseville
66S
2,100.16
224 Bakersfield
1,023.0S
334
22S Brooklyn
2,312.70
226 San Mateo ••.....•••..• S42
206
630.SO
228 Athens
432
91S.64
229 Solano
769.SO
230 North Butte ..••...•..•• 307
113.00
S9
231 Covelo •••••••...•••••.•
137
347.00
232 Janesville
21S.OO
233 Calistoga ••••••••.•...•• 104
312.00
234 Hope
98
32.00
23S Surprise Valley ••..•.••••
94
236 Hills Ferry
163
487.00
268
778.17
237 Guadalupe
240 Colusa
162
271.SO
241 Santa Ana •••••••••••••• S62
2,827.62
242 Magnolia .•...•••••••••• S48
3,36S.OO
243 Eucalwtus
S38
1,200.SO
244 Alcatraz .•.•.•.•••••..•• 402
1,036.SO
24S Laurel
214
681.00
246 Pomona •..••.••.•.••••• 403
1,766.17
247 Fresno
608
917.56
248 Alturas ••....••••••.•.•• 162
386.SO
2SO Adin •••.•..••.••••••.••
96
138.00
2S3 Landmark ••••••••••.•.•
98
29S.OO
2S4 Reading ••••..•.••••••.• 3SS
946.00
2SS Welcome
19S
318.SO
2S6 Lodi ••••.••••••••.••••• 380
938.09
2S8 Penrhyn
lSl
294.00
2S9 Evergreen •· ••••••••••••• 6S3
2,SS6.43
260 King Soloman's-Sea.port
460
82S.SO
No.

.........
...............
...............
............
................
................
..............
.............
..............
...............
..............
...........
............
....

...................
..............
················
...............
...............
.............
..............
.................
·················

··············
..................
............
.............
.................
.............
.................
.................
...............

...............
.

Contrib.

Members%

Avg.
Gift

337.00
2,260.00•
1,614.lS*
16S.OO
1,642.00•
4SS.so•
2SS.7S
2,SS0.40•
172.00
S4S.oo•
42S.So•
2,12S.OO*
437.oo•
2,003.SO*
341.2S
1,479.SO
1,642.00•
S87.00*
1,S79.00•
1,7S7.SO
436.74
so7.oo•
1,909.SO*
2,867.22•
960.00•
844.00•
683.00
3,134.96•
483.3S•
2,SS4.70*
2,422.71•
9SS.OO
2,os1.oo•
6S8.00*
477.67
733.SO
91.00
46S.SO•
37S.SO•
239.00
23.00
SS3.00•
1,000.78•
236.SO
2,709.39•
3,26S.SO*
1,72300•
1,106.00
S29.00
1,769.84•
1,2SO.SO
378.SO

S2
284
167
31
227
81
48
287
30
48
76
170
79
344
64
173
194
121
210
219
70
99
222
3S6
68
171
113
147
68
301
271
106
221
99
71
193
13
82
71
6S
s
89
104
29
271
4S2
184
131
88
231
127
124

4S
S9
46
3S
S7
6S
48
48
12
36
S4
S2
6S
63
46
28
37
74
S4
34
43
46
so
78
21
62
36
21
48
S7
41
32
41
48
16
63
22
60
68
66
s
SS
39
18
48
82
34
33
41
S7
21
77

2.93
4.73
4.48
1.88
4.14
3.67
2.S9
4.72
.68
4.13
3.02
6.46
3.SS
3.66
2.47
2.40
3.10
3.SS
4.0S
2.71
2.71
3.77
4.33
6.29
3.01
3.04
2.18
4.49
3.43
4.86
3.64
2.86
3.80
3.19
1.11
2.39
1.54
3.40
3.61
2.44
.24
3.39
3.73
1.46
4.82
S.96
3.20
2.7S
2.47
4.39
2.06
2.34

700.00
319.00
917.SO
3S3.00
2,800.39•
1,440.SO*

87
S2
llS
62
26S
230

2S
27
30
41
41
so

1.97
1.64
2.41
2.34
4.29
3.13

1971

167

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1971 Participation

1971

No.

~

261
262
264
26S
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
27S
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
29S
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
30S
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
319
320
321
322
323
324
32S
326
327
328
329

Lodge

1970

Membership Contrib.

76
Tuscan ••••..••••.••••••
Lompoc ••...••••.•..••• 386
Hesperian
439
171
Orland
lOS
Galt
273
Durant
267
Olive Branch
Snow Mountain
43
Pasadena •••.••••.•••..• 434
Anchor .•••..•.•..••.••• 48S
Arroyo ..•.••••••.•••••• 221
Oakdale ••••••••••••...• 219
Selma .•.......••.••.••. 197
315
Southern California
Hanford
208
2Sl
Madera
186
Mount Shasta
62
Calayomi
S34
South West
Paso Robles •.•.••..•••. 323
247
Winnedumah
SS
Maxwell
12S
Elsinore
East Gate ....•••••••••• 484
Santa Paula ••....•••.•• 394
Los Gatos .•..••••..•••• 467
434
Orange Grove
134
Traver
118
Mount Jackson
Silver Gate •••••••••..•• 1083
212
Dunsmuir
Liberty
396
Redlands •.•••••••.•.•.. 476
Ontario
S03
Santa Lucia •••••••••••• 1S3
Porterville •••••••••••••• SOl
Reedley
143
Azusa •••••••••••••••••• 30S
294
Ashlar
Santa Monica ••••••••••• 336
Monrovia
2SO
Delano ••••••••••••••••• 211
Sisson
86
Los Banos ••••••••••••.• 176
Tehachapi ••••••••.••••• 160
Temescal ••••••••••••••• 301
Norwalk
342
Sanger
289
191
Fallbrook
Hollenbeck
S16
South Gate .•.•••.•••••• 369
Alisa!
22S
Alhambra
SSS
Whittier
S93
Corona
398
Consuelo
S09
Needles
296
Long Beach
S92
Redondo
783
Valley De France ••••••• 120

..............
.................
···················
................
...........

.....

...............
................
..........
..............
............
...........
...............
...............
..........

.................

..............
................
................

................
.................
..............
.................

...............
·················
..............
.............
··················
..............
...............
................
...............
................
............
...............

70.SO
890.SS
2,346.S2
S66.00
380.00
743.SO
44S.SO
7S.OO
1,920.62
2,403.80
7S6.0S
688.00
409.00
2,898.34
S92.7S
624.7S
S46.SO
1,363.SO
874.2S
1,167.87
133.00
416.20
4,080.81
1,107.60
1,499.SO
2,389.04
303.SO
398.00
2,724.SO
623.2S
1,424.71
2,289.4S
1,SSS.90
S34.SO
692.00
143.00
1,S4S.89
1,248.4S
2,839.7S
660.13
S46.6S
278.00
438.00
474.00
1,206.84
836.91
386.00
2Sl.SO
2,847.38
1,724.00
643.SO
2,260.34
1,9SS.72
298.14
2,494.30
1,088.SO
4,6S2.36
3,S13.69
640.00

1971

1971 Participation

Contrib.

Members%

92.00
1,247.SO*
2,233.SO*
S97.oo•
436.7S•
823.00•
328.SO
101.00
2,177.84•
2,222.64•
sos.so•
839.00•
S2S.OO
2,809.4S•
433.SO
62S.OO
3S0.60
113.SO
961.26
1,4SO.So•
1,133.87•
114.SO
4SS.oo•
3,762.38•
902.7S
1,142.SO
2,44S.40*
3SS.OO
388.SO*
2,4S9.SO
680.11•
1,SS3.00•
2,S36.oo•
1,684.6S•
746.00*
727.SO
22S.OO
1,69S.22•
1,146.21•
3.232.SO*
771.lS•
S03.1S
200.00
4S7.00
607.oo•
814.00
l,23S.93•
944.SO*
S20.SO
2,410.68•
1,609.7S•
489.SO
3.297.34•
1,939.17•
2,973.12•
2,02S.09•
824.SO
S,611.20*
3,131.73•
631.00•

16
1S4
241
101
63
6S
Sl
16
2S9
237
94
131
66
1S4
86
96
72
18
166
249
188
27
63
304
119
186
2S4

48
68
227
114
228
284
203
so
113
3S
186
144
193
100
73
so
110
130
121
92
118
160
196
162
9S
266
134
481
199
17S
487
28S
81

21
40
SS
S9
60
24
19
37

60
49
43

60
34
49
41
38
39
29
31
77
76
49
so
63
30
40
S9
36
SS
21
S4
SS

60
40
33
23
24
61
49
S7
40
3S
SS
63
81
40
27
41

84
38
44
42
48
23
100
39
S9
82
36
68

-

Avg. .
Gift
~

1.21
3.23
S.09
3.49
4.16
3.01
1.23
2.3S
S.02
4.SS
3.64
3.83
2.66
8.92
2.08
2.49
1.88
1.83
1.80
4.49
4.S9
2.08
3.66
7.77
2.29
2.4S
S.63
2.67
3.29
2.27
3.21
3.92
S.33
3.3S
4.88
l.4S
1.57
S.S6
3.90
9.62
3.08
2.38
2.33
2.60
3.79
2.70
3.61
3.27
2.73
4.67
4.36
2.18
S.94
3.27
7.47
3.98
2.79
9.48
4.00
5.26

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1971

No.

1970

Membership Contrib.
Lodge
330 Kilauea
192
671.SO
331 Pacific Grove ........... 284
774.SO
332 San Pedro •......•...... S44
1,370.SO
333 Alta
361.00
··················· 146 2,584.17
334 Covina ................. S81
33S West Gate
4,999.SO
············· 1048
336 Fruitvale
650
2,606.80
···············
337 Carquinez ............... 1S6
S13.SO
338 San Jacinto ............ 118
SOS.70
339 Fullerton
1,683.19
·············· 420
341 Oxnard ................
1,0S6.7S
423
343 San Fernando .......... 709
3,386.S3
344 Starr King ............. S14
2,lSS.00
345 Brentwood
170
424.88
·············
346 Palo Alto
682
1,99S.OO
347 McKinley
1,762.80
·············· 39S 3,000.66
348 San Bernardino ......... 1002
349 Sequoia
7S6
2,888.70
351 Palestine ················ 318
1,898.00
··············· 241
3S2 Sunset
1,131.SO
3S3 Pinole .................. 202
601.SO
3SS Hollywood . . . . .. . .. . . . • 1023
4,S07.04
3S6 Mill Valley ............. 402
1,4S9.00
3S7 Buena Park ............ S3S
1,4S0.86
3S8 Golden State ........... 607
1,860.7S
3S9 Loyalton ...............
67
111.00
360 San Francisco-Victory .. 334
1,101.90
361 Fort Bragg ............. 147
99.00
362 Charity
269
1,364.86
················
363 Berkeley
6S9
2,087.00
36S Willits ................. 149
362.80
366 Las Palmas . . . .. . . . . .. . . 1034
2,482.25
367 South Pasadena ....••••• 471
2,899.00
368 Unity .................. 431
1,91S.48
369 Ocean Park •.....•••.... 426
1,S77.46
370 Amity-Seal Rock ........ 4SS
1,471.00
371 Le Progres De L'Oceanie 662
2,330.01
372 Gardena
S73
3,2S6.92
373 West Los Angeles ..•.... 438
2,663.44
374 Jewel
179
603.SO
··················
37S Richmond .............• 337
1,2S3.SO
376 Francis Drake .......... 417
1,77S.SO
377 Artesia ................. 2S7
1,292.00
378 Mizpah
270
6,733.29
379 Fillmore
217
927.00
380 Huntington Beach
443
1,401.7S
381 Oceanside .............. S40
2,122.2s
382 Highland Park .......... 449
2,120.72
383 Orosi
142
S92.00
384 El Centro ••••.•••••.••• 461
1,647.90
385 Dinuba
24S
660.00
387 Coalinga
307
1,084.9S
388 Parnassus-Presidio
8S2
2,400.00
389 Palos Verdes
668
3,391.00
390 Imperial
121
S18.40
391 East Belt ••.•....•...••• 127
448.00
392 West Lake ..•.....•..•.• 497
2,423.SO
393 Balder
426
1,392.00
394 University ..........••.. 3S3
1,722.38
39S Turlock
431
1,022.00

................

...............

·················

...............

...............

················
···············
......
..................
................
...............
......
...........
...............
.................
................

1971

1971 Participation

Contrib.

Members%

696.00*
1,oos.21•
1,46S.OO
4S8.SO•
2,874.16•
4,360.2S•
2,447.98•
434.SO
S36.SO•
1,790.33•
1,124.16
3,063.33•
1,93S.oo•
464.96
2,116.SO•
1,613.00*
S,OOO.S6•
2,914.00•
1,S38.00•
9S4.38•
44S.OO
2,819.4S
l,802.22•
1,301.2S
2,S67.20•

108
128
1S4
78
290
437
281
70
92
110
88
362
332
89
3S4
186
403
381
199
127
79
41S
186
179
270

1,167.S~

1,SlS.~

153
4
162
222
37
380
226
207
108
169
2S3
31S
219
94
162
247
151
161
137
170
299
207
78
1S8

S70.00

86

27.00
1,343.00•
1,810.SO
399.00
2,809.6S
2,496.82•
1,8S8.42•
1,446.4~

1,360.00
2,194.S~

2,860.86•
2,481.31•
692.SO•
1,296.SO•
2,097.70•
1,S06.16•
2,383.68•
924.00•
1,S9S.S6•
2,091.00*
2,S97.43•
467.7S•
1,028.S~

2,064.7S
3,S16.48•
506.60•
489.SO•
2,080.SO•
1,610.00*
1,910.34•
1,189.SO

169

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

138
308
323
73
73
38S
216
168
16S

S6
4S
28
S3
so
42
43
4S
78
26
21
Sl

6S

S2

S2

47
40
so
63
S3
39
41
46
33
44

46
3

60
34

2S

37
48
48
2S
37
38

SS

so
S3
48
S9.

S9

60

63
38

SS

46

SS

34
3S
4S
36
48
60
57
77
Sl
48
38

Avg.
Gift
3.63
3.S4
2.69
3.14
4.9S
4.16
3.77
2.79
4.SS
4.26
2.66
4.32
3.76
2.74
3.10
4.08
4.99
3.8S
4.84
3.96
2.20
2.76
4.48
2.43
4.23
3.SO
.18
4.99
2.75
2.68
2.72
S.30
4.31
3.40
2.99
3.31
4.99
S.67
3.87
3.8S
S.03
S.86
8.83
4.26
3.60
3.87
S.78
3.29
3.29
2.33
3.3S
2.42
S.26
4.19
3.85
4.19
3.78
5.41
2.76

1971

No.
396
397
399

400
401
402

403
404

405
406
407

408
409
411
412
414
41S
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
42S
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
43S
436
437
439
440
441
442
443
444
44S
446
447
448
449
450
4Sl
4S2
454
4SS
4S7
4S8
4S9
460
461
462

1970

Lodge
Membership Contrib.
Apollo ................. 368
1,SS0.31
Rising Light ...........• 806
4,166.92
Fraternity .............. 386
1,117.00
Burlingame ............. S48
1,142.00
Bay View .............. SS3
1,7Sl.30
Brawley ••••.........•.. 21S
1,012.24
Yerba Buena ........... 7S6
2,679.SO
Glendora
212
710.00
··············· 387
Moneta ................
1,826.00
Burbank
849
4,641.72
La Mesa •••.. ...•.•.... S92
2,S2S.70
Sierra Madre ........... 124
710.00
Honolulu .•••........... 391
2,142.00
Perris • , , •••............ 212
414.00
Calexico ............... 113
S7S.OO
Arlington ••.....•..••..•
614.74
Silver Trowel ........... 386
1,121.SO
Lindsay
189
S02.00
················
Clovis
S84
1,836.00
Elysian ................ 320
1,S22.40
Upland ................ 280
984.38
Kerman ................ 1S4
482.SO
Inglewood .............. 66S
2,828.42
Eagle Rock ............. 41S
2,702.46
York
S72
80S.70
Exeter
218
687.00
Holtville
1S4
S3S.OO
Midway ................ 364
924.76
Chino Valley
227
384.00
San Dimas
210
1,193.S8
Pittsburg •..........•... 310
708.00
McCloud ••............•
99
320.SO
Alpha .................. 434
l,181.2S
Hammonton
122
424.00
············
Maricopa .............. 141
4S6.00
Fairmount
300
940.SO
Claremont •............. 20S
610.80
Lancaster .............. S68
2,S89.14

...............

.................

..................
..................
...............
...........
.............
.............

Tyrian

Standard················· 308
Coronado ············ ··· 31S
Blackmer ··············
.............. 89S
Schofield ............... 369
Carpinteria ............. 1S3
Wilshire ................ 363
La Puente .............. 279
Torrance .............. 640
Mount Diablo
492
Park ................... 327
Van Nuys ••••....••.... 1172
Montebello
6S8
San Pasqual ............ 461
Crocker
460
Golden West ............ 434
Ramona ................ 479
Henry S. Orme .......... 4SO
Riverbank .............. 14S
Mount Oso •••••....••.. 310
Argonaut-Argonne
S30
Paul Revere
483
2S7

.

..........

·············
················
......
···········

168.00
934.SO
1,401.SO
2,09S.6S
7SO.SO
6S6.SO
1,747.SO
1,244.81
2,9S9.10
1,971.SO
1,642.20
6,S77.48
3,468.03
2,287.40
1,194.SO
3,767.00
2,S81.77
1,524.18
327.00
770.00
2,00S.SS
1,733.SO

1971 Participation

Contn"b.

Members%

Avg.
Gift

1,420.S~

189
412
107
128
236
139
204
27
192
S78
317
37
203
103
69

Sl
Sl
28
23
43
65
27
13
so
68
S4
30
S2
49
61

3.86
f.66
2.30
2.81
3.17
4.82
3.13
2.0S
4.31
4.07
4.47
4.37
6.69
3.60
5.17

12S
71
279
123
161
94
236
275
423
97
79
176
86
167
98
49
177
39
30

32
38
48
38
S8
61
35
66
74

3.42
1.79
3.84
5.20
3.SS
2.69
4.2S
6.30
5.11
3.24
4.12
2.S9
2.37
6.77
2.SO
2.96
3.79
2.08
1.61
2.73
3.20
4.46
.10
3.77
4.40
3.21
1.60
S.09
5.11
S.05
4.78
4.31
2.S9
S.81
4.9S
S.46
2.63
4.58
S.41
3.10
2.44
2.48
4.SS
4.24

1971

3,752.os•
889.00
1,S39.SO
1,7SS.66•
1,036.32•
2,363.S~

434.22
1,668.82•
3,4SS.S1•
2,64S.S3•
S41.27•
2,61s.so•
762.60•
S84.SO•
1,318.82•
338.00
2,244.SO•
1,66s.oo•
993.83•
414.00
2,823.87•
2,61S.4~

2,924.41•

1os.so•

634.68•
942.79
S37.00
1,421.74•
776.SO
293.00
1,643.00*
2S4.00
226.SO
820.00
656.36•
2,S32.74•
2S.OO
1,161.50•
l,386.2S•
2,874.6S•
S91.SO
779.oo•
1,8S4.78•
1,408.48•
3,0S7.8S•
2,122.00•
847.30
6,807.28•
3,2S4.68•
2,S17.34•
1,210.00
1,989.00•
2,S89.78•
1,396.70•
353.SO
768.SO
2,412.SO•
2,048.~

94

8S
3S3
6
135
136
38S
86
106
119
126
287
220
109
665
327
232
17S
187
300
143
66
129
247
180

44

51
48
38
80
32
49
41
32
21
31
41
62
2
44
43
43
23
69
33
4S
4S
4S
33
S7
so
so
38
43
63
32
46
42
47
37

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1971

1970

Lodge
Membership Contrib.
188.00
463 Morgan IIill •• • ••••••••• 146
2,524.00
464 Alta Vista-Mt. Vernon •• 345
912.00
432
46S Center
1,424.30
466 Libertas ................ 651
1,899.68
467 Culver City ............ 382
887.50
468 Rockridge .............. 322
730.52
469 Yorba Linda ........... 193
1,346.SO
335
470 Lincoln
443
471 Delta
1,400.00
S22.00
472 (Lodge) Maui .......... 168
211
473 Blythe
613.00
313
l,92S.56
475 America
476 Coachella
270
1,149.50
109
450.00
477 Temblor
1,960.00
478 Thousand Oaks
S32
2,146.00
479 Golden Rule •• •• • •• •• •• • 691
1,41S.OO
446
480 Fellowship
3,374.00
481 Mount Davidson .••••••• 317
722.00
482 Clarence F. Smith •• , ••• 240
4,2SS.89
483 Bell
715
747.29
183
484 Albert Pike
378.00
48S Chowchilla
174
486 Caledonia
2,486.86
SS2
81S.33
487 Vallejo ••••••.•••.•••••• 3S4
149.00
488 Patterson
17S
1,094.SO
489 East Bay
287
121
88.00
490 Corcoran
9S4.30
363
491 Woodstock
1,413.64
492 Garvanza
238
144
337.17
493 Atascadero
1,038.50
494 Acom . . .... . . ... ... . .. . 531
600.00
309
49S Lebanon
1,647.29
438
497 Fremont
370.00
176
498 Stockton
1,830.75
499 Capital City ............ 564
S80.00
169
soo Roosevelt
683.00
SOI Westwood .............. 209
l,71S.87
S02 Harbor
489
1,2os.oo
330
503 Point
S04 Seaside
2,120.90
481
2,600.42
S78
sos Silver Cord
S06 Mount Olive
810
2,739.00
1,436.86
4S6
S07 El Segundo
163.SO
S08 Joppa
94
S09 Benjamin Franklin •••••• 240
S46.20
SIO Cupertino
2SI
484.00
511 Sunnyvale .............. 432
1,052.00
Sl2 Palms .................. 388
1,439.64
S13 Cahuenga
3,160.4S
470
S15 Vermont Square •••••••• 313
l,S40.93
S16 Taft
2S3
69S.76
S18 La Jolla ................ 334
702.SO
273
S19 Euclid
8Sl.OO
S20 Ionic •••••••••••••••••• 1316
4,181.00
S21 Orinda ................. 4S2
1,364.00
S22 Belvedere Sunrise ••••••• 361
2,021.53
S23 Bellflower
2,9S3.79
606
S24 Catalina Island ••.•••••• 113
441.90
S2S George Washington . ..... 332
1,182.00
S26 Bay City ........ .. ..... 360
768.SO
No.

··· ··············

................
..................
.................
...............
..............
...............
.............

...................
............
.............

..............
..............
..............
..............
.............
..............
.............

...............
...............
...............

..............

................
..................
................
............
...........
............
.................

..............
..............

...................
.................
..............

1971

171

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1971 Participation

Contrib.

Members%

98.00
2,3S3.so•

24
192
2S6
216
209
106
94
148
1S5
92
94
186
107
S6
22S
348
203
253

856.50
1,743.50
2,394.24*
698.SO
649.03•
1,122.so•
2,385.50*
48S.OO
742.00•
l,S69.7o•
933.00•
475.7S•
2,191.7S•
2,808.00*
1,s18.2s•
3,311.7S•
9Sl.S3•
4,610.98•
886.83•
446.17
2,303.76•
764.00
137.00
1,000.00•
215.00
1,0S6.SO
l,S09.28•
389.45
l,16S.SO
S6S.OO
1,644.36*
774.00•
1,740.SO•
S49.00•
699.SO•
1,778.SO*
1,163.SO•
2,096.40•
2,908.00•
4,264.2S•
1,370.88•
124.00
832.84•
741.SO
1,057.00
1,769.79•
3,26S.84•
1,687.24•
84S.36•
732.2S
1,074.00•
4,607.3S•
2,121.SO*

2,202.12•
3,S9S.90•
S66.24*
1,282.SO*
724.SO

95
442
64
72
308
129
22
222
31
171
137
64
IS4
100
239
84
274
81
124
194
142
230
31S
49S
161
21
66
86
126
219
436
141
113
84
94
S37
261
202
202
100
200
123

16

56
S9
33

55
33
49
44
35

55
45
S9
40
51
42
so
46
80
40
62
3S
41
S6
36
13
77
26
47
S8
44
29
32
SS
48
49
48
S9
40
43
48
S4
61
3S
22
28
34
29
S6
93
4S
4S
2S
34
41
S8
S6
33
88
60
34

Avg.
Gift
.67
6.82
1.98
2.68
6.27
2.17
3.36
3.35
5.38
2.89
3.52
5.02
3.46
4.36
4.12
4.06
3.40
10.4S
3.96
6.4S
4.8S
2.S6
4.17
2.16
.78
3.48
1.78
2.91
6.34
2.70
2.19
1.83
3.7S
4.40
3.09
3.2S
3.3S
3.64
3.S3
4.36
S.03
S.26
3.01
1.32
3.47
2.9S
2.4S
4.56
6.9S
S.39
3.34
2.19
3.93
3.SO
4.69
6.10
S.93
S.01
3.86
2.01

1971

No.

,

Lodge

Covenant ........... ...
Beverly Hills .......... .
Loyalty
·····...········
Sun Garden
. ... . ..···
..
Alexandria ······· ····
··
Smyrna
············ ····
Azure ...............
.. .
Forest Hill ••••••.......
Alexander Hamilton .....
Utopia •••••••.•...... . .
Ascot
Queen Beach
···········..
HeDrY Morse Stephens
North Hollywood .......

210
459
797
476
158
226
397
164
226
439
273
177
243
909
Signal
47S
Glendale
730
545 Veritas-Jonathan .... .. . . 268
546 San Gabriel ..... ....... 553
493
547 Arcadia
324
548 Triangle
549 Justice •••••.... . ...... • 344
551 Lakeshore .••.... . .. . ... 235
SS2 Semper Virens .......... 306
5S4 Educator .••••.......... 328
SSS White Pine ............. 97
S56 Fairfax •••••••........•• 479
404
SS7 Hermosa
5S8 Point Firmin ........... 291
5S9 Craftsmen ••••••.. ... . . . 282
339
560 Plymouth
S61 East San Diego .. . . . . ... 8S9
562 Pyramid
267
332
563 South Park
564 Foothill
914
565 West Adams ....... .. .. . 253
566 ] ames A. Garfield .. .. . . . 204
567 Searchlight
356
568 Park Boulevard ••.... . .. 334
S69 Chateau Thierry ••. . . . .. 294
S70 Military Service •....... 249
S71 Francis K. Shattuck. •. . .. 180
S72 James Madison •••••• ... 2S6
574
Hackett ...... .... S46
S7S Fort Crook ••••••....... 219
S76 El Cajon Valley .. .. .... 614
577 Sunnyside • • •••• • • . . .... 317
S78 Progressive ....... .... .. 424
579 Warren G. Harding •.... 635
S80 Santa Maria •••••••. .. . . 136
S81 Security ................ 372
S82 Rialto
337
583 Wasco
282
S84 Harding ......... . ...... 276
527
S28
S29
530
531
532
533
534
535
537
538
540
541
542
S43
S44

..................

............... ..
······ ·········

............. ...

....... .. ... ...

.......... .. ...

········ ··· ···
........ ... ... .
...... ..... .

........... .....

.............

s. w.

.................
········· ········

58S Manchester ••••........• 2S5

S86
S87
S88
S89
590
S91

1970

Membership Contrib.

Garden Grove .......... 513
Valley Forge ........... 360
El Sereno .............. 352
Kauai .................. 105
Compass
342
Escalon
ISi

···············
................

1,219.90
1,868.60
5,500.00
386.50
497.75
510.45
2,861.55
545.00
907.40
l,609.S2
1,642.78
1,331.79
1,024.SO
4,869.04
3,033.10
2,927.28
841.00
3,088.40
1,690.46
2,336.32
1,238.35
900.SO
922.SO
917.SO
148.00
1,106.00
1,648.6S
1,164.84
1,274.74
803.50
2,224.90
6S3.00
1,347.0S
2,362.33
1,112.61
1,937.SO
1,377.00
86S.OO
6S4.SO
888.2S
876.SO
1,387.00
2,548.36
433.50
2,889.SO
1,275.42
2,310.03
2,1S8.00
7S6.80
1,092.SO
l,176.4S
796.SO
1,000.00
902.10
2,6S2.06
1,646.12
968.42
478.00
l,4S7.00
324.00

1971

1971 Participation

Contrib.
736.21•
2,312.14•
5,767.00*
379.00
514.SO*
490.00
2,101.70*
742.00•
754.42*
1,819.43•
1,506.30•
1,341.88•

908.25•
4,737.20*
3,161.10*
3,027.7S•
903.SO*
2,763.20*
1,371.80
2,476.46•
1,260.00•
9S3.SO•
74S.SO
1,077.oo•
198.00
994.27
1,428.70•
1,176.99*
1,446.38•
896.S4
2,394.00
377.00
1,200.69•
2,449.50
996.66•
1,764.7S•
l,SSl.40*
76S.OO
726.SO
1,004.00•
8So.oo•
1,129.00*
2,SlS.SO*
681.7S•
2,909.50*
1,627.42•
2,344.84•
2,244.65•
8So.oo•
1,108.15
1,666.04•
696.70
1,107.SO•
1,069.97•
2,720.38•
1,683.43•
1,182.24•
464.00•
1,341.SO*
306.50

Members%
66

250
445
30
72

75
288
64
71
173
125
92
112
461
312
336
111
313
129
239
162
103
135
174
46
140
149
117
143
202
397
41
141

502
91
104
144
97
98
136
lOS
109
267
120
339
151
256
362
106
162
134
143
100
8S
327
18S
112
S2
204
46

31
54

56
6
46
33
73
39
31
39
46

52
46
Sl
66
46
41
S7
26
74
47
44
44
S3
47
29
37
40
Sl
60
46
IS
42
SS
36
SI
40
29
33

SS

S8
43
49

SS
SS
48
60
S7
78
44
40
SI
37
33
64
SI
32
so
60
30

Avg.
Gift
3.SI
5.04
7.24
.80
3.26
2.17

5.29
4.52
3.34
4.14

5.52
7.58
3.74
S.21
6.6S
4.IS
3.37
S.00
2.78
7.64
3.66
4.06
2.44
3.28
2.04
2.08
3.S4
4.04
S.13
2.64
2.79
1.41
3.62
2.68
3.94

8.65
4.36
2.29
2.47
4.03
4.72
4.41
4.61
3.11
4.74
S.13
5.S3
3.S3

6.25

2.98
4.94
2.47
4.01
4.20
S.30
4.68
3.36
4.42
3.92
2.00

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

173

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1971
1970
1971 1971 Participation Avg.
Lodge
Membership Contrib.
Contrib. Members%
GUt
592 Tujunga
J5Q
1,381.56
1,260.40*
177
51
J.60
59J All States
516
2,779.76
J,055.54*
J22
62
S.92
594 Service ... : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 843
4,0S7.71
J,714.4S•
420
so
4.41
S9S Alexandlll' Graham Bell •• 230
l,512.2J
1,664.91*
133
SS
7.24
S96 Guardian ••••••••••••••• 889
S,062.lJ
S,96S.so•
769
S7
6.71
59S Pearl Harbor ........... 601
2,763.70
2,S07.3S*
3J8
56
4.67
599 Carmelita
2,172.19
2,lSS.SJ*
16S
SJ
·············· J20
6.SJ
600 Lynwood ••.............
SJ9
2,9S0.5J
2,52S.SO*
296
SS
4.69
601 Grizzly
11J
JJ9.00
401.00•
63
S6
J.SS
602 Melrose ················ 2S2
l,321.S2
l,2S0.46*
121
4S
··· ············· 216
4.96
603 Dimond ................
1,712.00
906.00•
124
S7
4.19
604 Jubilee •••.............. 4J1
2,283.72
2,39J.30*
258
60
s.ss
605 Gl~ell Park
1,284.41
l,6S7.64•
197
54
4.61
··········· J66
607 Sojourner
2SS
1,074.82
887.25•
73
26
J.11
608 Granada ·············· 6S9
2,162.Sl
2,S09.6S•
274
42
J.81
609 Provident ···· ··········· 47J
l,S81.2S
1,906.00*
277
59
4.03
··············
610 Elmhurst ...
............ 2J9
417.50
J40.00
43
lS
1.42
611 Canoga
451
2,07S.26
2,066.63*
204
4S
···· ............
············ 466
4.Ss
612 Temple City
2,7J4.63
2,365.46•
261
56
5.08
61J Three Pillars ............ 413
1,506.30
l,41J.40*
2JO
56
J.42
614 Larchmont
Jll
1,465.00
1,145.SO*
98
J2
J.6S
61S Hemet
JS7
1,265.SO
1,495.So•
2J9
62
J.S6
616 R. E. Dolley ............ 2Jl
949.70
1,059.SO*
244 100
4.S9
617 Big Bear ............... 184
900.49
549.24
S2
4S
2.99
618 Southland .............. J27
l,3J6.20
S96.2S
117
J6
2.74
619 Neptune
296
1,198.16
1,194.96•
67
2J
··············· 66J
4.04
620 Point Loma
1,601.00
l,S54.63
2J7
J6
2.34
621 The Gardens ............ 457
1,942.68
l,949.S6•
162 JS
4.27
622 Atwater •••••........... JlJ
1,307.50
1,217.lS*
1J9 44
J.89
62J Menorah
8,198.75
9,494.70*
796
63
······ ········· 1272
7.46
625 Angeles Mesa
J,03J.11
2,900.48*
SJ9
92
4.94
·········· SS7
626 Chula VJSta
749
J,171.7S
2,403.00*
JJ2
44
J.21
627 Lamanda Park············
.......... 2S8
1,206.40
1,27S.72•
140 49
4.44
62S Truth ••.••••........... 264
1,154.00
SSl.OO•
S9
J4
J.34
629 Fairview
24S
1,086.50
1,063.oo•
12S 52
4.34
630 Ingleside ··············· 17S
S67.50
880.00*
llS
67
··············· 2J7
5.03
631 Benevolence
l,2SO.OO
l,Jl5.00•
2J6 100
············ Sl7 J,221.7S
5.SS
632 Normal Heights
J,240.SO*
4SS
56
········ 72S
J.97
6JJ Poinsettia
2,256.6S
2,4SO.SO*
J47
48
J.42
634 Victorville •............. J42
1,040.67
1,221.32•
174
51
J.S7
635 Riverside ............•.• 62S
2,666.JJ
2,S24.50*
JS4
61
4.52
6J6 John Marshall .......... 2SO
1,901.00
1,425.oo•
177
63
5.09
637 Palisades
J77
1,911.40
l,S92.40*
19S
52
5,02
639 Composite •.•........•.. 721
2,660.00
J,S95.20*
J74
52
S.40
641 J. A. Foshay ............ lSO
850.50
839.oo•
S6 48
4.66
642 La Cumbre
296
1,569.72
l,SlS.45•
177
60
6.lJ
643 Alta Loma ············ J2S
1,643.06
l,906.4S•
124 JS
5.81
644 Lomita
J72
1,369.74
1,54S.24•
19S
SJ
················
4.16
645 A. F. E. Irwin
...•.•...• 236
943.44
797.92•
101
43
J.JS
646 Metropolitan
16S
74S.S6
74S.oo•
119
72
4.52
647 Hawthorne
S41
2,477.92
2,563.71•
276
51
4.74
648 Damascus
696
J,165.75
J,SS2.70*
J76
54
5.10
649 F1orence
1,601.00
650 La Brea ••.•.•.••.•..•.• 216
541.SO
557.SO
S7
40
2.5S
6Sl Menlo Park
Jl6
1,387.97
1,717.00*
206
65
5.43
652 Crescenta Valley ••...... 610
2,409.54
2,342.lS•
240 J9
J.84
65J Fontana
J61
l,415.5S
l,S22.09•
1J4
J7
4.22
654 Jordan ............ ..... J57
1,549.38
1,542.26•
190
5J
4.32
655 Monte Vista •••••••••.•• 794
3,957.50
4,22S.63•
J9S
so
5.JJ
656 atrol •••............... 271
8S8.99
1,082.50•
170 63

No.

...............

·············
·················
············

··············

···············
·············

···········
·············
··············
···············
············
···············

J .99

1971

1970

Lodge
Membership Contrib.
No.
John
D.
Spreckels
61S
2,S06.16
657
693.10
658 Livingston ............. 1SS
l,08S.99
659 La Habra .............. J35
1,942.JJ
660 Baldwin Park ........... 375
l,374.S9
661 Malta ••...............• 23S
2,426.90
662 Henry Knox ........... • J4S
1,006.99
663 Ojai ··················· 1S2
2Sl.OO
66S Kaweah ................ 1J4
J,621.2J
666 Reseda ................. 90J
2,280.42
667 Meridian ··············· 4S7
896.SO
668 San Gorgonio .... ....... 257
824.50
669 John P. Jarman ........ J12
J,SS8.18
670 Greenleaf ..... ......... S27
401.00
671 San Clemente ........... 19S
4S3.00
672 Laguna Beach .......... 2J7
967.00
673 Far West .•••.......•... 294
1,744.SO
674 Los Cerritos ............ S26
1,011.SO
67S Modesto ............... S40
1,092.00
676 Willow Glen ............ JS2
1,541.36
677 Liberal Arts ............ 410
67S Altadena ··············· 44J
l,92S.79
679 Canby Cross ............ 119
680 Carmel ................ 244
766.00
681 Dos Palos .••.....•..... 1S5
J5S.70
682 Barstow
l,5J4.50
500
J26.16
683 Redwood Empire ....... 129
684 Tron a
lSS
711.50
685 San Marino
462
2,4SJ.SO
686 Albany
435.50
205
················ J96
687 Vista
1,703.SO
··········
········
l,1S7.00
688 Oildale ................. 284
689 Pohona
1S5.00
S7
················
690 San Carlos
1,455.50
447
691 Indian Wells Valley ....• 446
l,S06.SO
692 Travelers
194
75S.OO
69J Palm Springs ........... J21
S21.05
694 San Antonio ............ 276
l,S76.00
69S Meudell
l,27J.SS
24S
················
696 Crossroads ............. J22
1,402.SS
697 Saint Elmo •.•.••••..... J02
1,582.00
69S William D. Stephens •••• 205
1,186.SO
699 Bixby Knolls ........... 416
J,111.18
700 Ponderosa
806.25
········
··· J71
701 Santa Ynez···
Valley
•••...
162
624.00
702 Rosemead
l,Sl4.70
257
703 Westchester
1,724.06
429
705 El Cerrito •...•.••.•••.. 224
937.SO
706 Hunters Point Naval .... 19S
l,1J7.00
707 Lake Tahoe
109
22J.OO
708 Seafaring ............... S76
2,266.46
709 Lorenzo
1,5Sl.OO
JSS
710 Ana capa
290
l,7JS.SS
711 Rim of the World ...... 210
51J.OO
712 Los Altos .............. 2Sl
744.00
71J Castro Valley ........... JJ9
l,7JJ.50
714 Blue Lakes •••.••. ...... 245
1,012.00
71S Magnolia Park •••....... J54
1,644.92
716 Belmont Shore •.•......• J79
2,lS0.00
717 Wayfarer
l,1S7.78
190
718 San Lorenzo Valley •..... lJO
J71.00

...............
.................
............
·············
..............

..............
............
............

................

...............

··············

1971

1971 Partidpation

Avg.

Contrib.

Members%

GUt

2,100.S9•
619.00*
S67.50
2,3J7.S2•
l,31S.05*
2,492.00*
766.oo•
21J.SO
J,7S4.70*
2,#4.66*
9S1.20*
792.SO
J,344.IS•
4JJ.OO
222.00
962.00*
1,430.50
841.20
l,2S6.SO*
l,2S9.48*
1,970.66•

J04
104
97
183
139
224
7S
so
416
2JS
158
14S
541
54
29
159
J20
116
169
210
2J4

49
SS
29
49
SS
6S
41
J7
46
48
61
46
6S
27
12
54
61
21
44
51
SJ

3.42
3.29
2.S9
6.2J
5.S3
7.22
4.21
l.S9
4.16
S.02
J.S2
2.S4
4.04
2.19
.94
3.27
2.72
1.56
J.29
J.07
4.4S

S17.50*
JJI.00
1,S42.50*
JSl.50
S2J.50*
2,479.So•
427.SO
l,424.S7•
1,063.SO*
JSl .00*
l,61S.50*
1,470.00*
692.00*
1,S55.5l*
l,67J.50*
l,19S.Jo•
1,400.34•
l,Sl4.50*
l,OS4.66*
2,S97.39*
1,140.00•
751.2S•
l,63J.9J•
1,619.36*
902.25*
l,llS.60*
215.00
l,83S.SO*
l,67J.50*
1,67S.66•
554.50
616.50
l,83s.oo•
1,271.So•
l,J41.47•
2,221.10*
1,075.54*
450.0S*

112
46
S7
88
71
JSJ
4J
SS
S7
S8
271
S9
42
S6
211
SJ
210
74
7S
S6
212
47
206
46
69
J6
22S
70
62
171
S4
20s
S2
26S
192
64
119
S8
JlS
76
178
48
162 100
176 68
41
177
66
147
S6
171
28
26
SJ
307
2S3
7J
69
200
40
S3
J4
SS
82
277
141
S8
17J
49
203
S4
133
70
128 9S

J.JS
2.14
J.09
2.96
J.JS
S.37
2.09
J.60
J.74
4.03
J.62
3.30
J.57
S.7S
6.06
4.SS
4.JS
6.01
S.29
6.96
J.07
4.64
6.36
J.77
4.03
S.63
1.97
J.19
4.31
S.79
2.64
2.46
S.42
S.19
J.79
S.86
5'.66
J.46

174

1971

No.

Lodge

181
·················
.......... 140

719 Estero
720 Mineral King
721 Home ••..•...••........
722 George E. Tutt ••..•...•
723 Acalanes
724 San Ramon Valley •.....

...............

725 Saint Johns ············

726
727
728
729
730
731
732
733
734
735
736
737
738
739
740
741
742
743
744
745
746
747
748
749
750
751

752
753
754

755
756
757
758
759
760
761
762
763
764

765
766
767
768
769
770
771
772
773
774

775
776
777
778

1970

Membership Contrib.

... ............

743
221
234
176
283
254
119
272
171
234
205

Yucaipa
Verdugo Hills ...........
Lakewood •••...........
Centennial
Polaris
Two Rivers ............
San Juan
255
Golden Empire
177
Kit Carson ............. 223
Oasis of Mara .......... 143
Lemon Grove
509
Hillsborough
184
Arvin
123
La Canada ............. 182
Opportunity
225
Tyre ................... 284
Morning Side Park ...... 165
Oakwood ............... 105
San Leandro •........... 233
Peninsula
190
Soquel
196
Claude H. Morrison •.... 185
Highland ............... 203
Merced
197
Mother Colony ••....... 207
Hamilton
169
Luther Burbank ........ 249
Lawndale
230
San Pablo ..•••......... 144
Golden Bowl ........... 181
Clayton Valley .......... 357
Channel ................ 140
West Covina ............ 249
El Rancho
239
Lakeside
159
Josiah W. Roller ........ 215
Coastside ............... 181
Arabic
197
Heritage
190
Dana R. Weller •..•....• 166
James H. Kew .......... 155
William Rhodes Hervey .. 149
Zenith
316
Palmdale ............... 276
Lake Chabot ........... 179
Mission Bay ............ 267
Avenal .•••••.•.........
76
Tejon .•••••••.......... 261
Waikiki
230
San Dieguito ........... 222
East Whittier ........... 262
Pinnacle
56
La Mirada ............. 227

·············
·················
··············
.........

..........
...........
..................
............
..............
.................

................

..............
..............

.............
...............

.................
···············
.................
................

...............

453.00
241.00
2,768.91
783.30
735.00
808.00
907.50
877.35
1,258.50
1,509.67
859.04
1,087.86
1,510.90
1,110.84
1,027.50
906.50
375.40
2,031.40
707.50
474.00
1,063.94
1,725.95
1,304.76
911.44
633.35
1,014.50
932.50
818.75
590.50
812.94
550.00
490.51
625.50
868.33
1,312.51
335.00
1,147.15
1,774.50
701.50
1,264.80
1,129.92
534.31
910.00
881.00
1,344.50
1,236.98
1,375.81
954.79
701.00
1,811.53
1,315.50
802.00
1,052.50
177.00
840.50
1,122.10
385.00
2,325.02
165.40
1,361.91

1971

175

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1971 Participation

Contrib.

Members%

322.00
216.93
2,900.25•
719.00•
704.25•
685.25•
859.75•
668.50
1,353.63•
1,656.25•
1,039.62•
1,074.48•
1,282.40•
1,013.89•
1,049.00•
967.oo•
473.oo•

59
33
20
14
429
58
143
65
86
37
76
43
105
37
41
105
122 100
134
49
46
78
125
53
135
66
55
140
123
69
135
61
76
109
224
44
34
63
89
72
96
53
120
53
32
91
165 100
107 100
158
68
111
58
103
53
106
57
98
48
55
108
53
26
89
53
223
90
124
54
53
37
198 100
110
31
56
79
146
59
109
46
100
63
148
69
117
65
102
52
103
54
186 100
98
63
70
47
157
50
137
50
95
170
156
58
17
22
221
85
130
57
86
39
279 100
48
86
109
48

1,851.5~

563.00•
537.5~

1,113.66•
1,460.76•
1,033.93•
911.86•
718.44•
1,284.67•
1,098.35•
677.oo•
435.00
728.5~

662.SO•
422.72
596.5~
1,268.~

1,158.00*
319.00
1,429.94•
975.00
621.28•
1,386.76•
1,217.33•
547.oo•
995.89•
777.oo•
1,023.70•
911.02•
1,669.06•
953.70•
620.00•
1,797.62•
1,450.10•
906.oo•
1,039.SO•
193.04
1,501.9~

1,079.25•
599.00
1,884.08•
170.17•
1,143.85•

1971

Avg.
Gift
1.78
1.55
3.90
3.25
3.01
3.89
3.04
2.63
11.38
6.09
6.08
4.59
6.26
3.98
5.93
4.34
3.31
3.64
3.06
4.37
6.12
6.49
3.64
5.53
6.84
5.51

5.78

3.45
2.35
3.59
3.36
2.04
3.53
5.10
5.03
2.22
7.90
2.73
4.44

5.57
5.09
3.44
4.63
4.29
5.20
4.79
10.05
6.15
4.16
5.69

5.25
5.06
3.89
2.54

5.75
4.69
2.70
7.19
3.04

5,04

No.

r

~

Lodge

............
................

123
Five Points
Riviera
152
Rolling Hills •••••••••••• 137
Silverado ............... 159
Mojave
90
Leland Stanford •••••••• 204
146
785 Paramount
786 Rio Linda .............. 138
787 Westminster ............ 149
788 Sierra .................. 126
789 Oak Plains ............. 337
790 Granada Hills .......... 228
791 General Henry H. Arnold 162
73
792 Millbrae
793 Maya .................. 141
794 Mt. Wilson •••.•.•••.••• 157
177
795 American River
796 Golden Valley .......... 191
797 Tila Pass ............... 131
798 Ashland ................ 134
799 Clairemont Mesa •.•.•••• 136
800 Rio Hondo ............. 134
117
801 Koolau
802 Yucca Valley ........... 190
100
803 The Gabilan
101
804 Moreno Valley
151
sos Camellia
157
806 Simi Valley
807 Conejo Valley .......... 164
150
808 Scepter
809 Los Alamitos ........... 145
810 Victoria Palms .......... 125
811 Woodland Hills ••••••••• 181
118
812 Triad
813 Old West ••.•••.•••.•.•• 159
86
814 Plaza De Los Angeles ••••
815 Mount Baldy ........... 119
66
816 William B. Ogden ••••••
817 Manhattan
51
818 Great Lights •••••••.•••• 238
819 Frank S. Land ••••..•.•• 162
820 Mar Vista
161
821 Gateway
55
822 Boron
86
823 Maccabee
133
824 · Camarillio ••••••••.••••• 122
79
825 Gemini
68
826 Palm Desert ............
92
827 Kem River Valley ••••••
Southern Calif. Researcht
TOTALS ••••••••• 230,583
Overall Average Contribution ••
779
780
781
782
783
784

1970

Membership Contrib.

................
.............

...............

................
............

.........
...............
............
................

..................

.............
.............
...............
.................
..............
................

tNot included in total membmldp.

1971

1971 Participation

Contn'b.

Members%

898.70
1,126.20
1,200.68
421.89
270.25
583.00
1,139.44
950.20
470.00
292.44
1,316.25
1,794.29

902.00*
1,209.78•
961.69•
458.00
310.00•
547.00
1,063.89•
1,051.00*
539.20•
217.00
1,436.00*
1,887.81•

244.00
615.00
1,045.51
474.00
1,099.73
753.43
427.50
449.00
2,849.77
430.00
696.00
353.00
417.02
1,210.48
780.00
390.00
536.50
563.42
390.40
742.50
422.88
1,515.37
1,111.20
207.00
262.08
131.00
1,118.33
787.90
922.16
154.00
346.00
992.50
523.00
741.00
566.50
208.18
167.00
919,392.16

320.19•
428.00•
741.10•
432.00
1,166.18•
788.00*
470.60•
548.oo•
2,622.23•
412.00•
579.oo•
337.00*
475.92•
1,298.0l •
902.15•
532.31 •
574.SO•
580.00•

69
137
63
95
59
114
116
119
91
41
179
141
179
39
80
95
69
104
79
77

525.65

.........

505.65•

417.9~

841.25•
497.oo•
1,538.38•
663.78•
s10.oo•
388.52•
144.20
1,053.82•
797.15•
922.49•
135.00
283.SO•
993.00•
746.So•
552.00•
995.5~

370.96•
220.50
936,637.66

85

56
90
46
60
66

56
79
86
61
33
53
62
100
53

57
61
39
54
60

57

63
147 100
60
51
70 37
63
63
85
86
73
110
113
72
83
51
65
97
67
97
82
66
109
60

65

55

160
77
76
18
23
155
114
114
27

100
90
64
27
45

65
70
71
49

56

65

151

100
61
44
100
70

75
35
71
64
49
112,019

Avg.
Gift
7.33
7.96
7.02
2.88
3.44
2.68
7.29
7.62
3.62
1.72
4.26
8.28
3.12
4.39
3.04
4.72
2.44
6.11
6.02
3.51
4.03
19.57
3.52
3.05
3.37
4.71
8.60

5.75
3.25
3.83
4.00
3.34
4.65
4.21
9.68
7.72
4.29
5.89
2.83
4.43
4.92
5.73
2.45
3.30
7.47
6.12
6.99
14.64
4.03
8.36

176

177

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL

pretations which could affect the operation of Boards of Relief, particularly
those receiving bequests and gifts.
The Board of Control has been in contact with the Grand Master, other
Grand Lodge Officers, and Tax Consultants to determine our area of responsibility.
Based on advice received, all Boards of Relief have been advised that they
must collect and pay certain Federal, State and Local Taxes such as Withholding, Social Security, Unemployment and Local Payroll Taxes. Boards
have been advised to obtain professional assistance if there is any doubt as to
complete compliance with all aspects of the Laws.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Since the last Communication of Grand Lodge, your Board has met in
Los Angeles on December 19, 1970 and May 28-29, 1971. Also in San Francisco on January 13, March 20, and August 7, 1971. Meetings were spaced to
avoid unnecessary travel expenses due to the geographical location of the
Board Members. Interim business was handled by postal communication
and individual contact.
Copies of communications from the Board of Control to and from Lodges
and Boards of Relief, as well as minutes of our meetings, were directed, as
in the past to the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Wardens,
and Grand Secretary.
All Official actions of the Board of Control were submitted to the Grand
Master.
The Right Worshipful Raymond A. Ebbage, Junior Grand Warden, was
appointed by the Grand Master as Liaison Officer to your Board, and was of
most valuable assistance.
POLICY

At our meeting on January 13, 1971, in the Grand Lodge Office, policies
were formulated, and concurred in by the Elective Grand Lodge Officers,
effective until otherwise legislated by Grand Lodge whereby:
1. Boards of Relief publishing Clearing House or Concurrent Jurisdiction
Reports may continue this practice.
2. Funerals for Sojourners shall be conducted in accordance with CMC
Sections 604 and 605, and Policy heretofore adopted by Grand Lodge.
3. Funds of a Board of Relief shall not be expended for social purposes.
If The Grand Master is the guest of honor, the function is considered an
Official one.
4. All other activity of a Board of Relief shall be in accordance with
the CMC, AND THE October 1, 1969 Rules and Regulations governing the
operation of Boards of Relief.
5. Any special problem will be considered individually.
NEW FORMS

To simplify and standardize the information required of the Boards of
Relief by the Board of Control, new forms were developed and put into use.
Report of Election Form 6-71, Annual Reports Form BC 1-71, Statement of
Income and Expenses Form BC 2-71, Balance Sheet Form BC 2-71, and
Annual Statistical Report Form BC 4-71.
The Board of Control expects to develop a new form for the reporting
of Estimated Budgets to bring about uniformity for required information
and expedite approval of the same.
TAXES

The Board of Control has been concerned over recent Tax Law inter-

RULES

Due to tum-over in Lodge Officers and Board of Relief Officers and Representatives, requests have been made for additional copies of the Rules and
Regulations governing operations of Boards of Relief. Copies may be obtained
upon request directly to the Office of The Grand Secretary.
Clarification was requested of Article VIII of the Rules and Regulations
governing Lodge representation in Boards of Relief. The term of a Representative shall be one year, and shall run concurrently with the term, and
with the will and pleasure of the Master who appoints him. Each succeeding
Master may or may not, as he chooses, re-appoint the Representative for an
additional term. However no Representative shall serve more than three
consecutive terms (Three Years) from the effective date of the Rules,
October 1, 1969.
This Board cannot over emphasize the importance and responsibility of
the Master in selecting competent and active Representatives to their Board
of Relief. These Representatives are responsible for the administration and
operation of a Board. This responsibility cannot be delegated to their
employees.
.
The Board of Control has, on a few occasions, received complaints from
various Boards of the failure of member Lodges to remit their per-capita
assessment. As in all such cases of non-compliance with the Rules and Regulations, this Board has communicated with the offenders and sought correction of the situation. Certain cases have been referred to the Grand Master.
Operation of Blood Banks by Boards of Relief have been continued
pending the formation of Jurisdiction or Statewide Blood Banks as per
Recommendation No. 10 of the 1970 Proceedings.
Boards of Relief have been directed NOT to accumulate Blood Bank
Cash surplus until such time as the revised Blood Bank Plan is accepted by
Grand Lodge.
WITHDRAWAL FROM BOARDS OP RELIEP

Several Lodges have inquired regarding methods for withdrawal from
Boards of Relief. The Board of Control, recognizing that many requests were
of a bonafide nature, established the following procedure:

178

179

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1. The Lodge should direct their written request to the Chairman of the
Board of Control, including therein their reasons, with a copy to the Board of
Relief.
2. The Board of Relief should state in writing, to the Board of Control
approval or disapproval.
3. The Board of Control will rule on each case according to the facts
submitted or obtained.

East Whittier No. 776 withdraw from the San Gabriel Board.
Arabic No. 763 and Southland No. 618 transfer from the Los Angeles to
the Glendale Board.
Euclid No. S19 and Southern California No. 278 withdraw from the Los
Angeles Board.
Lawndale No. 7S3 join the Los Angeles Board.
West Los Angeles No. 373, Culver City No. 467, Palms No. S12, Triangle
No. S48, Westchester No. 703, Riviera No. 780 transfer from the Santa
Monica to the Los Angeles Board.
Manhattan No. 817 join the Los Angeles Board or Hermosa No. SS7
withdraw.
El Segundo No. S07 join the Los Angeles Board or Fairview No. 629
withdraw.
Santa Ana No. 241 join the Orange County Board or Jubilee No. 604
and Silver Cord No. SOS withdraw.
Mother Colony No. 7SO join the Orange County Board or Anaheim
No. 207 withdraw.
Mar Vista No. 870 join the Orange County Board or Seafaring No. 708
withdraw.
La Mirada No. 778 join the Orange County Board or Buena Park No. 3S7
withdraw.
Santa Ana No. 241 and Silver Cord No. SOS join the Orange County
Board or Jubilee No. 604 withdraw.
Mar Vista No. 807, La Mirada No. 778 join the Orange County Board or
Buena Park No. 8S7 and Seafaring No. 708 withdraw.

REALIGNMENT
Previous Board of Control Members recognized that many inequities
existed in Board of Relief memberships due to rapid changes in communities,
relocation of meeting places, and endless other situations. This Board felt
that the time had come for action and was long overdue, and further that a
plan for realignment should be put into effect this year. After considerable
time and effort, a program was drafted based on simple jurisdictional responsibility guidelines, that is,
If there is more than one Lodge meeting in the same City or Town,
they should all be members of the same Board of Relief, or not members
of any Board. In making recommendations for transfers and withdrawals,
your Board was particularly careful not to force the creation of any new
Boards of Relief.
Based on this Jurisdictional responsibility formula, your Board made the
following decisions and recommendations:
REQUESTS BY LoooEs FoR WITHDRAWAL DENIED
Lexington No. 104, Belvedere-Sunrise No. S22 from the San Gabriel
Board. Fruitvale No. 336, Orinda No. S21, Diamond No. 603 from the East
Bay Board. Alamo No. 122 from the East Bay Board, San Gabriel No. S46
from the San Gabriel Board.
REQUESTS BY LoooEs FoR TRANSFER APPROVED
Eden No. 113, Chateau Thierry No. S69, Elmhurst No. 610, San Leandro
No. 744, Lake Chabot No. 770, Ashland No. 798 from the East Bay to the
Southern Alameda County Board.
R. E. Dolley No. 616 from the Long Beach to the Orange County Board.
All transfers were made subject to the completion of the necessary forms,
payment of per-capita obligations, and approval of the Grand Master.
BOARD OF CONTROL RECOMMENDATIONS IN PROCESS.
Gemini No. 82S join the Southern Alameda County Board or Alameda
No. 167 withdraw.
Carquinez No. 33 7 transfer from the East Bay Board to the Richmond
Board, or withdraw from the East Bay Board.
Acalanes No. 723 be given the option of remaining in the East Bay Board
or to withdiaw.
Francis K. Shattuck No. S71 transfer from the East Bay Board to the
Richmond Board.

OPERATING COSTS OF BOARDS OF RELIEF PER 1971-72 BUDGETS
Bo11rd

BudgBI

Bakersfield •............... $ 69S.OO
East Bay ................ . 13,0S8.00
Fresno ••.................
3,09S.OO
810.00
Glendale ................. .
Long Beach .............. .
7,994.00
Los Angeles .......... .... . 33,678.00
Orange County ........... .
1,97S.OO
Pasadena ................ .
1,040.00
4S8.00
Richmond ............... .
6,110.00
Sacramento .•.............
1,711.00
San Bernardino .......... ..
7,639.00
San Diego •...............
San Francisco ............ . 13,720.00
San Gabriel .............. .
1,960.00
87S.OO
San Jose •.................

Member
Lodges

OPERATING EXPENSE
Per
Per
Lodge
Capita

7

$ 99.27

$ .2S

41

318.49
619.00
lB.71
470.24
320.74
141.07
11S.S6
76.33
339.44
342.20
381.9S
304.89
98.00
145.83

.60
.70
.32*

s
7

17

lOS
14
9
6
18

s

20
4S
20

6

1.00

.oo•

.60
.00*
.10
.90
.S8
.60

.SS
.28*
.25

180

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BoMd

Santa Barbara ........... .
Santa Monica ............ .
So. Alameda County ....... .
Stockton ................. .

OPERATING BXPBNSB
Member
Per
Per
Budget
Lodges
Lodge
Capita
None
4
None
.00
696.00
9
77.33
.00*

375.00
1,210.00

5
5

75.00
242.00

.55

*The Los Angeles Board receives substantial income from the Masonic Board of Relief
of The City of Los Angeles, a corporation, and has no membership per-capita assessment.

STATISTICS

The Glendale Board has not submitted an Annual Report. The other 18
Boards reported the following services performed.
Sojourners Funerals ..•......... ................. .
807
Calls on Sick Sojourners •................. .........
1,047
Investigations to locate a Brother ................. .
141
Investigations to Report the Status of a Brother ..... .
226
Applications for Masonic Homes of California ....... .
24
Applications for Homes, Other Jurisdictions ......... .
35
Requests for Relief ...•.............. .. ...........
327
Cases of Relief Provided for Sojourners ............. .
128
Money advanced for Relief .............. ..... ..... $ 4,764.55
Money recovered for Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 4,194.86
Pints of Blood Donated to Blood Bank ............. .
2,683
Pints of Blood Released .................. ........ .
2,156
Cash Donations Received for Blood ............... . $ 4,774.96
Cash Expended for Purchase of Blood ............... . $ 1,730.50
Total Income All Boards ........ ............. . ... . $ 92,458.03
Total Expense All Boards ........ . ............... . $ 93,027.96
Total Cases ..•............... .................. .
2,790
Cost per Case .................. ................. . $
33.34
Total Surplus All Boards ......... ............. ... . $219,155.16
Due to the extensive surveys made by the Board of Control members last
year, we were able to minimize expenses this year.

COMPARISON OF BOARD OF RELIEF INCOME AND EXPENSE 1968-1971
Total
Total
Total
Blood
Year
Income
E:r:pense
Surplus
Funds
Joard
Bakersfield
71
0
656.10
126.34 •••••.•••••••
70
757.00
620.00
782.44 ••...••.••.••
69
787.00
701.50
645.44 ••••••.•.••..
68
777.50
620.00
559.94 ••...•...••••
East Bay •........•.. 71
10,458.14
12,886.20
6,273.34
1,860.50
70
5,666.83
11,794.34
8,711.69
31,949.69
6,201.93
69
11,494.74
45,027.66
30,169.92
12,967.21
68
13,497.66
48,388.25
28,0.11.62
71
3,885.22
3,883.65
2,817.00
Fresno
2,116.24
70
2,511.27
2,812.57
2,710.66
2,030.01
2,624.99
69
2,700.02
5,507.61
1,946.81
68
2,671.70
2,437.50
7,206.94
3,109.93
71 No Report Filed
Glendale
70
817.50
757.67
1,121.95
1,984.33
69
833.70
824.86
2,866.03
1,858.19
68
842.10
763.24
2,694.95
1,652.45
Long Beach ••....... 71
8,856.71
7,411.31
21,015.50 •••••••••••••
10,634.20
70
10,141.28
19,570.10 ••••...••..••
11,701.33
69
13,370.73
5,644.70 ••.•...••••..
68
11,561.67
13,521.02
7,281.10 ••.....•••.••
Los Angeles ......... 71
46,166.67
31,511.53
46,429.22 .............
36,680.07
70
73,735.12
74,684.0S ••.•..•...•.•
43,528.91
69
28,602.55
113;172.36 ••.....••••..
53,508.63
68
31,311.69
97,895.29 .............
Orange County •..... 71
1,525.67
2,265.24
1,366.40 •••.•..••••••
220.12
70
2,307.68
2,055.97 ••.••.•••••••
1,559.98
69
2,416.10
4,143.53 •••.... ••• ...
68
2,897.46
2,315.07
4,999.65 ••.....••..••
Pasadena ••.•..•....• 71
786.00
950.00
1,212.66 ••••.....••••
70
950.00
0
1,376.66 •••. •.•.•...•
820.25
69
834.05
1,518.91. ••.•..•.••••
68
883.60
794.60
1,532.71 ••.....••..••

·········

.00

This Corporation has now underwritten the budget expenses for Glendale,
Long Beach, Pasadena, San Gabriel and Santa Monica Boards for the current
fiscal year. These Boards have been instructed to waive or declare per-capita
moratorium during this period in order to prevent increase in surplus funds.
Smallest of all of the Boards in the state is Santa Barbara with a membership of four Lodges. This Board anticipates no expenditures and operates
without a per capita, due to the generous contribution of time by their
Executive Secretary, Bro. Del May. Southern Alameda is also to be commended on their efforts to operate without a per-capita assessment and a
budget of only $375.00 from surplus. Richmond is likewise to be commended
on their operation with a budget of $458.00.

181

'

... ..........
............

Richmond

Sacramento

.......... 71
70
69
68

0
207.20
0
98.19

87.83
51.89
87.32
123.95

195.82
232.49
283.48
156.80
128.00 ••.•..•••••••
361.45
146.13

70
69
68

5,125.32
5,306.20
7,531.06
7,371.98

5,929.67
6,211.39
6,382.24
6,325.27

9,750.25 ••...••••••••
10,554.60 •• •.••..• ••.•
11,459.79 •••••..••..••
10,490.97 ••. ••.•• •••.•

71
70
69
68

1,779.44
1,510.00
55.27
1,661.58

1,683.32
1,667.59
1,496.00
1,436.54

2,695.79
519.00
2,599.17
497.72
2,641.64 •••••.•••••••
4,0S2.21 •••••••••••••

......... 71

San Bernardino ..••..

182

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Board

Year

San Diego •••.••••..•

71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68

San Francisco •...•...

San Gabriel •••......

San Jose ••••••.. ...•

71

Santa Barbara ••.• •..

Santa Monica •••• ..•.

Southern Alameda .••

Stockton ••••..•.•.•.

70
69
68
71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68

Total
Income

Total
Expense

6,981.03

7,303.90
8,327.36
7,657.89
8,469.31
13,646.34
13,766.02
15,827.88
15,304.09
1,926.46
2,455.06
3,666.54
3,514.31
969.55

5,897.65 ••..•••••••••
5,917.73 •••.•••••••••
7,524.17 ••....•.• •.••
8,108.00 .•• •••• .••• ••
115,550.17
22,987.06
110,951.38 •••••.•••••••
117,634.98
19,237.89
68,482.25
18,465.60
1,535.61 •••••.•••••••
2,101.02 ••....••••.••
2,214.53 ••.••.••••••.
5,660.40 ••••••..••.••
1,573.65 ••..•..••••••

848.89
1,013.10
0
322.00
976.53
503.19
459.03
1,314.69
1,167.71
1,425.87
243.33
271.65
366.47

1,635.92 •••...•..••.•
2,419.96 .............
87.94 ••........ . .•
87.94 •••.......•.•
409.94 •..•..••..•••
847.67 .............
1,328.09
379.51
270.42 .••• •••.•••••
4,107.55
3,649.00
4,036.77
2,898.08
256.04
1,459.66
499.37
1,388.27
2,081.81
1,360.79

1,214.50
1,511.86
1,365.53
1,637.86

916.79 •..•.....••••
889.51 •....•.••...•
904.99 •••.•....• •. •
890.22 •••..•• ••.•••

7,595.52
7,761.96
7,548.39
15,511.64
6,789.65
14,409.69
13,398.53
1,497.66
2,285.67
184.97
3,622.29
925.74

Total
Surplus

Blood
Funds

Report Filed Late
816.85
823.63
0
0
538.80

535.60
1,553.45
1,211.60
1,227.99
1,470.16
0
77.48
0

Refused To File
1,364.84
1,373.38
1,380.30
1,672.74

RECAP OF BOARD OF RELIEF INCOME 1968-1971

Board
Baken&eld

Eut Bay •......•

Fl'SIO

..........

No. of

Year

Lodges

71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68

7
7
7
7
41
41
43
43
5

5
5
5

183

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. of
Members

Per
Capita

Per
Capita
Income

Interest
Income

Income

Total
Income

3,058
3,028
3,085
3,110
16,458
16,880
16,277
17,737
2,920
2,977
3,031
3,040

0
.25
.25
.25
.60
.30
.30
.60
.70
.35
.70
.70

0
757.00
771.25
778.50
9,838.50
4,847.10
5,166.00
10,804.20
2,044.70
1,041.95
2,124.99
2,171.70

0
0
0
0
386.89
553.23
706.68
1,832.76
0
0
0
0

0
0
15.75
0
232.75
266.50
329.25
330.25
1,840.52
1,469.32
500.00
500.00

0
757.00
787.00
777.50
10,458.14
5,666.83
6,201.93
12,967.21
3,885.22
2,511.27
2,624.99
2,671.70

Other

Per
Year

loud
Glelldale

71
70
69
68
LaDI Beach •••••• 71
70
69
68
()range Co••••••• 71
70
69
68
71
fllldeoa
70
69
68
71
lfdunolld
70
69
68
71
Sacramento
70
69
68
71
San Bernardino
70
69
68
San Diego ....... 71
70
69
68
San Francisco ••• • 71
70
69
68
San Gabriel •••••• 71
70
69
68
San Jose •••••••• 71
70
69
68
Santa Ba.rbara •••• 71
70
69
68
Santa Monica •••• 71
70
69
68
So. Alameda ••••• 71
70
69
68

........
.......
......
..

No. of
Lodges

No. of
Per
Members Capita
No Report Filed
7
2,531
.30
7
2,800
.30
7
2,773
.30
No Report Filed
7,696
1.20
17
1.20
17
7,696
7,782
1.20
17
0
0
0
14
0
5,502
5,439
.60
14
4,945
13
.60
.25
3,144
9
.25
3,231
9
3,281
.25
9
.25
3,244
9
.10
2,071
6
2,072
.10
6
0
6
0
0
0
0
.90
18
7,044
.90
7,235
18
.90
7,235
18
7,374
.90
18
2,950
.63
5
0
2,926
5
2,926
0
5
.55
2,830
5
11,270
.60
20
0
20
.65
.65
11,600
20
.65
11,495
20

Other
l11COme

Tot.i
Income

Capita
Income

Interest
Income

817.50
833.70
842.10

0
0
0

0
0
0

817.50
833.70
842.10

9,184.10
9,369.60
9,399.00
1,496.55
0
1,432.20
2,799.60
786.00
807.75
820.25
836.00
0
207.20
0
0
4,765.08
4,883.66
6,641.10
6,333.60
1,734.39
1,532.85
0
1,554.85

200.54
985.81
862.71
39.12
118.16
127.78
97.86
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
360.24
331.44
303.15
291.33
45.55
42.27
55.27
56.73

1,249.56
1,345.92
1,299.96
40.00
101.96
0
0
0
0
0
47.60
0
0
0
98.19
0
91.10
406.81
740.05
0
50.00
0
50.00

6,762.00
7,417.15
7,457.45
7,471.75

219.03
178.37
104.51
76.64
6,130.59
5,979.65
4,401.39
3,291.53

0
0
200.00
0
800.00
810.00
930.00
790.00
478.06
0
21.77

10,634.20
U,701.33
11,561.67
1,525.67
220.12
1,559.98
2,877.46
786.00
0
820.25
183.60
0
207.20
0
98.19
5,125.32
5,306.20
7,531.06
7,371.98
1,779.94
1,510.00
55.27
1,661.58
6,981.03
7,595.52
7,761.96
7,548.39

45
45
46
48

15,602
16,014
16,506
16,800

.55
.55
.55

8,581.05
0
9,078.30
9,317.00

20
20
20
21

7,000
7,305
7,566
7,556

.14
.30
0
.43

952.82
2,191.50
0
3,315.14

6
0
6
6
4
4
4
4

2,940
0
3,008
3,036
1,355
1,350
1,355
1,347

.25
0
0
.25
0
0
.40
.40
.45
.25
.25
.25

735.00
0
752.00
759.00
0
0
538.80
535.60
1,442.95
854.25
749.00
882.50

0
0
120.77
177.27

110.50
357.35
358.22
410.39

0
0
0

0
0
0

0
52.48
0

0
25.00
0

3,360
9
3,417
9
3,360
9
3,530
9
0
6
2,207
6
2,176
6
Refused to File

.SS

66.78
94.17
163.20
307.15
58.24
0
64.85
64.33
0
0
0
0

0
182.50
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

15,511.64
6,789.65
14,409.69
13,398.53
1,497.66
2,285.67
184.97
3,622.29
925.74
0
816.85
823.63
0
0
538.80
535.60
1,553.45
1,211.60
1,227.99
1,470.16
0
77.48
0

184
Board
Stockton

Year

Loe Angeles ••••••

71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68

No. of
Lodges

s
s
s
s
105
106
106
105

No. of
Memben
2,094
2,149
2,196
2,218
0
0
43,000
43,002

Per
Capita
.SS
.SS
.SS
.SS
0
0
0
0

Per
Capita
Income
l,lSl.70
l,181.9S
1,207.80
1,219.90
0
0
0
6,548.SO

......
.....
....

Secy.

Secy.

Steno
Other

Year Sa1ary

Salary

Salary

Allt.
Interest
Income
0
0
0
0
175.00
855.94
265.57
218.97

Other
Income
213.14
191.43
172.SO
4S2.84
45,991.67
35,824.13
4J,263.34
43,741.16

RECAP OF BOARD OF RELmF EXPENSES 1968-1971
Steno
Asst.
Printing
Secy.
Secy.
Other
Office
Board
Salary
Year
Salary
Salary
Rent
Phone
Supplies
Baken.fi.eld
71
600.00
0
0
0
56.10
0
70
600.00
0
0
0
0
0
69
600.00
0
0
0
0
0
68
300.00
0
0
0
60.00
0
East Bay •••... 71 8,100.00
0 1,764.00
1,080.00
341.04
213.16
70 7,575.00
0 1,568.00
1,080.00
375.15
212.62
69 7,200.00
0 1,057.53
1,080.00
344.59
1S6.80
68 7,200.00
0 3,118.SS
1,080.00
3SS.22
41.31
Fresno
71 1,260.00
0
0
780.00
0
0
70 1,980.00
0
0
0
0
0
69 1,820.00
0
0
0
52.00
0
68 1,S60.00
0
0
0
81.78
Sl.32
Glendale ....... 71
0
0
0
0
0
0
70
600.00
0
0
114.37
0
33.80
69
SS0.00
0
0
0
76.88
79.69
68
600.00
0
0
0
59.17
21.07
Long Beach . ..• 71
0
0
0
0
0
0
70 4,382.00
0 3,162.SO
1,080.00
535.57
242.26
69 6,089.02
0 3,967.93
1,080.00
466.57
201.49
68 S,393.66
0 4,798.41
1,080.00
454.02
191.S2
Orange Co. . ••• 71 1,800.00
0
0
0
19.40
0
70 1,775.00
0
0
0
49.27
44.41
69 l,S00.00
0
0
0
47.30
0
68 1,485.00
0
0
0
SI.SO
140.20
Pasadena
71
900.00
0
0
0
0
0
70
900.00
0
0
0
0
0
69
600.00
0
0
0
0
64.05
68
600.00
0
0
0
0
0
Richmond
71
40.00
0
0
0
10.08
0
70
40.00
0
0
0
0
2.89
69
37.00
0
0
0
0
0
68
60.00
0
0
0
0
S.25
Sacramento
71 S,010.00
0
0
0
261.68
11.86
70 4,860.00
0
200.00
0
285.SS
47.97
69 4,692.00
0
0
0
245.83
74.40
68 4,692.00
0
0
0
218.10
40.04
San Bernardino • 71 1,620.00
0
0
0
0
0
70 1,510.00
0
0
0
S.88
6.18
69
300.00
0
0
0
6.00
0
68
300.00
0
0
0
34.29
3.00
Sen Diego ••••• 71 S,100.00
0
0
864.00
540.95
114.S9
70 S,100.00
0
0
824.00
492.04
242.61
69 4,620.00
0
0
912.00
396.07
181.SO
68 4,921.35
250.00
0
1,457.00
577.14
299.07

........

185

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Total
Income
1,364.84
1,373.38
1,380.30
1,672.74
46,166.67
36,680.07
43,528.91
53,508.63

Postage

0
0
0
0
164.80
120.30
12S.26
66.35
0
0
0
14.40
0
9.50
18.39
22 .SO
0
0
181.72
277.SO
.84
30.00
60.00
25.00
0
0
0
0
12.75
6.00
S.82
11.70
11.88
101.28
136.80
110.25
0
6.00
24.00
12.00
127.20
129.40
141.62
72.34

Board
San Francbco

71 7,898.98
70 7,876.20
69 7,800.00
68 7,200.00
Sen Gabriel •••• 71 1,250.00
70 1,668.68
69 l,S00.00
68 1,S00.00
720.00
Sen ]ose ••• • • • 71
0
70
600.00
69
600.00
68
0
Santa Barban •• 71
280.00
70
0
69
0
68
319.92
Santa Monica •• 71
70 1,080.00
360.00
69
360.00
68
0
So. Alameda • • • • 71
0
70
0
69
0
68
900.00
71
Stockton
900.00
70
900.00
69
900.00
68
Loe Angeles ••• 71 10,000.00
70 9,520.00
69 8,920.00
68 8,870.00

......

0 1,821.00
0 2,632.13
0 4,60S.OO
0 4,S37.80
0
0
0
175.00
0
420.00
0
420.00
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
757.00
9,531.00
575.00
8,625.00
125.00
7,S7S.OO
7,405.00 4,080.00

Printing

Ollice
Rent
492.00
S27.76
492.00
SSl.00
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4,342.95
3,810.00
2,760.00
1,840.00

Phone
389.78
309.S4
403.84
4,262.S2
138.80
220.72
182.31
166.69
4.10
0
0
1.00
0
25.00
21.78
33.19
18.19
75.67
79.77
92.50
188.39
221.6S
131.92
0
146.17
164.64
142.29
133.44
908.26
1,048.90
960.93
1,033.27

RECAP OF BOARD oF RELmF EXPENSES

Year

Board
Bakenlield

East Bay

.....

71
70
69
68
71
70

69
Fresno

········

Glendale ••.•••.

68
71
70
69
68
71

70
69
68
Lolll Beach •••• 71
70
69
68

Auto
Mileage

Taus

0
0
0
240.00
0
308.80
893.40
900.00
0
0
700.00
600.00
0
0
0
55.10
0
342.61
600.00
600.00

0
0
0
0
544.31
536.47
498.77
637.35
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
262.42
425.62
480.91

G.L.
Pension
0
0
0
0
678.89
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

Audit

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
lS.00
15.00
15.00
15.00
0
0
0
0
0
100.00
110.00
75.00

Supplies
62S.42
381.68
311.S8
2S6.42
73.14
33.66
6.93
26.12
4.20
0
43.89
37.40
0
0
472.75
0
36.03
11.41
46.40
27.o7
55.04
0
37.55
0
9.45
24.67
22.26
14.33
435.71
1,113.78
597.16
921.56

1968-197~

Furn. &
Equip.

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
0

1

Postage

0
219.00
9S.40
1S9.30
14.00
32.SO
60.00
52.00
0
0
12.00
8.00
0
12.00
12.00
0
7.32
12.74
0
0
0
0
0
0
1.70
6.55
6.40
8.SO
606.80
50S.60
473.82
480.7S

Other

Total

E:rperuie
0
20.00
101.SO
20.00
0
41.97
138.39
148.50
1,828.65
817.S7
112.14
115.00
0
0
100.00
S.00
0
33.92
248.38
170.00

E:rpense
656.10
620.00
701.50
620.00
12,886.20
11,794.34
11,494.74
13,497.66
3,883.65
2,812.57
2,700.02
2,437.SO
0
7S7.67
824.86
763.24
0
10,141.28
13,370.73
13,521.02

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Board

Year

Orange Co.

71
70
69
68
71
70
69
68

Pasadena ......
Richmond

..... 71

70
69
68
Sacramento ...• 71
70
69
68
San Bernardino . 71
70
69
68
San Diego ...•. 71
70
69
68
San Franclsoo .. 71
70
69
68
San Gabriel .... 71
70
69
68
San Jme •••.•• 71
70
69
68
Santa Barbara •• 71
70
69
68
Santa Monica .. 71
70
69
68
So. Alameda •••• 71
70
69
68
71
Stockton
70
69
68
68
Los Angeles ... 71
70
69
68

......

Auto
Mileage

G.L.
Tues Pension

0
10.00
0
0
0
0
0
123.00
0
0
4.50
1.00
186.55
245.02
705.00
720.00
0
75.00
900.00
900.00
0
180.00
460.00
0
1,050.00
906.70
900.00
900.00
25.00
190.50
1,177.30
1,139.93
0
0
0
101.00
0
0
360.00
360.00
7.80
91.50
241.00
187.00
0
0
0
0
22.10
67.80
67.80
87.90
87.90
1,436.37
1,565.28
1,550.00
1,520.00

405.00
399.00
382.80
377.37
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
344.70
307.02
320.04
268.67
0
0
0
0
277.16
255.29
202.24
161.02
637.28
564.30
658.32
655.24
48.00
136.00
69.00
68.40
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38.52
43.20
20.16
15.84
0
0
0
0
45.00
43.20
41.40
39.60
39.60
878.08
940.41
761.69
855.36

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
792.53
0
0
0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

All

Audit

Furn. &
Equip.

Ezpense

Other

Total
Expe119e

40.00
0
0
0
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
0
0
0
75.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
30.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
100.00
625.00
380.00
230.00
180.00
180.00
180.00
70.00
0
0
50.00
50.00
20.00
0
15.00
15.00
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
400.00
395.00
400.00
300.00

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7.50
45.65
0
0
0
0
155.50
180.00
367.38
0
0
187.18
36.23
0
194.68
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
168.03
0
0
0

0
0
426.00
236.00
0
0
0
21.60
0
3.00
15.00
46.00
28.00
82.05
87.52
201.21
0
39.53
241.00
0
7,303.90
111.64
364.46
69.79
364.70
132.48
381.50
353.13
0
30.00
201.00
266.17
221.25
0
208.00
250.70
0
5.00
110.00
110.00
31.25
0
420.08
743.46
0
50.00
197.00
0
90.14
305.00
195.38
72.00
454.09
432.88
45,636.15
4,478.80
3,353.19

2,265.24
2,307.6&
2,416.lO
2,315.07
950.00
950.00
834.05
794.60
87.83
51.&9
87.32
123.95
5,929.67
6,211.39
6,382.24
6,325.27
1,683.32
1,667.59
1,496.00
1,436.54
0
8,327.36
7,657.89
8,469.31
13,646.34
13,766.02
15,827.88
15,304.09
1,926.46
2,455.06
3,666.54
3,514.31
969.55
0
848.89
1,013.10
0
322.00
976.53
503.19
459.03
1,314.69
1,167 .71
1,425.87
243.33
271.6$
366.47
0
1,214.56
1,511.86
1,365.53
0
1,637.86
31,511.Y
73,735.12
28,602.SS
31,311.69

187

The Board of Control requests the sum of $25,000.00 to cover expenses
during the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted
JAMES E. WELLET, Chairman
HOWARD S. FISHER
WARREN w. WILDMAN
CLAYTON R. HEINZ
RICHARD Snt:oN
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance.
(Budget allocation)
I

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Portions of the Report of the Board of Control have been referred to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes as containing matters of policy.
We concur in the policies expressed by the Board except No. 4 which
says "All other activity of a Board of Relief shall be in accordance with the
C.M.C., and the October 1, 1969 Rules & Regulations governing the operation
of Boards of Relief." Many of these rules and regulations are superseded by
603 adopted by this Grand Lodge.
We move approval of the policies recommended by the Board of Control
deleting the October 1, 1969 Rules and Regulations pending their revision
to conform with 603 C.M.C.
Respectfully submitted,
THEODORE MERIAM
EUGENE R. LU.LY
GILBERT A. BENOIT
MAru:oN E. PEDLAR
Wu.BERT B. ADAMS
MYRON E. SMITH
FRANK P. LEMEN
EUGENE s. HOPP
Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITIEE ON DISTRIBUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Having reviewed the Grand Master's Annual Message, the Reports of the
Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary, Masonic Homes Trustees and the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board, the Committee on Distribution submits the following report:
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
Contained within the Message are the following subjects for recommendations:
1. Publication of a single volume of Grand Lodge History.
2. Proposed Grand Lodge of Hawaii.
3. Dedication of Masonic Halls.
4. Anniversary Certificates for Lodges.

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5. Seventy Five Year Pin Ceremony.
6. Mortgage Burning Ceremony.
7. Masonic Code Revision.
8. Blood Bank.
9. Arrest of charter.
10. Suspension of Master, Lodge No. 819.
11. Suspension of Master, Lodge No. 823.
12. Expenses of Boards of Relief.
13. Expenses of Endowment Board.
14. California Masonic Foundation.
15. Orphan relief.
16. Study of priorities.
17. Masonic float.

189

2. That portion relating to consolidation of Lodges to the Committee
on Charters.
The Reports of the Masonic Homes Trustees and the Masonic Homes
Endowment Board are referred in their entirety to the Committee on Finance.
REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER

We recommend that the portions of the report of the Grand Lecturer be
referred to committees as indicated:
1. That portion relating to the cornerstone Ceremony be Referred to
the Committees on Ritual and Policy and General Purposes.
2. That portion relating to the budget be referred to the Committee on
Finance.
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL

Recommendations on the above subjects are referred to the following
committees:
To the Committee on Jurisprudence - Nos. 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 15.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes - Nos. 1, 2, 4, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17.
To the Committee on Finance - Nos. 1, 4, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 17.
To the Committee on Grievances - Nos. 9, 10 and 11.
To the Committee on Ritual - Nos. 3, 5 and 6.
To the Committee on Masonic History - No. 1.
The following decisions are referred to the committees as indicated:
1. Lodge Officer Expense Reimbursement to the Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.
2. Expenditure of Lodge Funds for Public School Events to the Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.
3. Voting by the Tiler of a Lodge to the Committees on Jurisprudence,
on Policy and General Purposes and on Ritual.
4. Expenditures of Lodge Funds for Past Master Dinner to Committees
on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We recommend that the Report of the Grand Treasurer be referred in
its entirety to the Committee on Finance.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Secretary's Report be
referred to the committees as follows:
1. That portion relating to changes of meeting place to the Committees
on Charters and By-Laws.

Portions of the report are referred to the committees as indicated:
1. That section relating to "policy" is referred to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes.
2. That portion relating to Board decisions denying Lodge requests for
withdrawal from Boards of Relief is referred to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes.
3. That portion relating to finance is referred to the Committee on
Finance.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH W. WINTERS, Chairman
VERNON L. GoRDON
DANIEL D. ROWLANDS
Adopted.
At 5:10 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Tuesday.

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-TUES DAY, OCTOBER 12, 1971
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
Past Master Noah F. Thompson, Master of Tustin Lodge U.D. raised Grand
Lodge. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The minutes of
the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, October 11, 1971 were read
and approved.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

The Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
herewith submits its Seventeenth Annual Report. At the close of the 1970
Annual Communication, the Board of Trustees held its Annual Meeting and
the following officers were elected:
IRA W. COBURN, P.G.M.•••.••.••..•.... ....... . President
DEWALD M. BAUM •••••••••••••••••• •• • ••• Vice President
Cm:sTER R. MAcPmm, P.G.M.•..•.•......•.•.. . Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M ..•....•..••..... ..... . Secretary
The President, at the first meeting, reported to the Board that the work
on the Auditorium, as outlined in the report of 1969, was completed with the
exception of a few minor items. A year has passed and the Auditorium has
been put to test and found to be in excellent working order.
The raised stage has proved most adequate and functional. The drapes
and side wings have not only added to the beauty of the Auditorium but the
wings have made the entrance to the stage more functional.
All lighting defects observed during the past year have been corrected.
The lighting and sound consoles are operated from the new booth in front
of the balcony. They are efficient, effective, and give the operator great
flexibility of operation.
The new dressing room back stage has provided a great convenience to
the artists.
The acoustics in the Auditorium are excellent. The acoustical work, designed by Dr. Vern Knudsen Ph.D., Sc.D. of UCLA, in 1962 and refined in
subsequent years, has been the basis of our present outstanding and publicly
accepted sound system.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

191

•arrants. Under the supervision of H. M. Engle, Structu~ Engineer, we
can be assured the proper method of meeting any problem will be.~· The
need for economy in our maintenance is always before us; the bwlding staff
~ done an excellent job of maintenance.
.
•
.
Recommendations from various governmental and insurance mspection
departments have been received, pointing out items considered n~
for the safety of those using the Temple. Two examples are standb?' lighting
in the Auditorium and elevator maintenance. The recommenda~?°5 have
always been followed to secure the safety of the employees, visitors and
patrons.
ELECTRICAL WoRK AND RELIGHTING
Last year we completed the major part of the elec!1'ical work with ~e
installation of our new electric panel controls and dmuner syst~. This
equipment has been refined since installation and is proving most satisfactory.
We have improved the lighting of the main floor and balcony foyers. The
richness of these areas is now shown to greater advantage.
TOURS AND VISITATIONS
As we review our Visitors Register we realize that modern means of
ttansportation has now made it possible for thousands of ~pie to trav;t
swiftly and comfortably from continent to continent. This year, as m
previous years, we have received visitors from around the .world.
In addition to visitors from the fifty states of the Umon we welcomed
visitors from:
Africa
England
Netherlands
Asia
France
New Zealand
Australia
Germany
North Ireland
Belgium
Hungary
Philippines
Canada
Israel
Rhodesia
Chile
Japan
Scotland
China (Taiwan)
Kenya
Switzerland
China (Peking)
Mexico
Turkey
We are always happy to welcome groups from Rainbow for. Girls~ Job:s
Daughters, DeMolay Chapters, and members of lodges not only t~ Califorma
and Hawaii but in other parts of the world.
Visiting hours are maintained from 8:45 A.M. to 4.45 P.M. Monday
through Friday.
·
Masons active in their home ·jurisdictions as well as non-Masons are
Unpressed with our beautiful Teinple and their compliments are most
generous.

Bun.DING MAINTENANCE

PUBLIC RELATIONS AND CIVIC AFFAIRS

A building the size of the Temple requires constant maintenance vigilance.
Leakage from the exterior walls owing to settlement cracks has been adequately treated. Further work will be done in this area as the condition

Of great importance is the image projected by ou: beautifu~ Temple
through the activities of staff and building usage. Speoal effort 1S exerted
in this direction.

192

193

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our contacts are diversified, with theatrical, convention business and
ethnic groups. We have many letters from tenants expressi~ satisfaction
with our Temple and its staff. One such communication is quoted from
below:
"Thank Y?~. very much for your kind cooperation. . . . Allow me to say
that your facrbties are among the best I have ever worked in and your staff
among the finest."
Our Manager has been a Director of the Nob Hill Association and the
San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau for the past eight years. His
membership continues in The Press Club of San Francisco Rotary Club
Public Relations Round Table, and the Greater San Fran~ Chamber
Commerce. We find it important that we support these fine organizations
as a civic responsibility. It also gives us an opportunity to maintain our
contacts with civic leaders and to develop rental potentials.

later years as visitors, suppliers of services or in other capacities and make
known to us that they graduated at Masonic.
Golden Gate College's graduation was also a repeat. The Miss Chinatown
U.S.A. Pageant and the Coronation of the Pageant Queen were beautifully
presented again this year. Our neighbors from Chinatown have come to our
Auditorium each year for these beautiful programs and look forward to
returning again and again.
In our last refurbishing of the Auditorium we installed a large 30' x 30'
moving picture screen. This has been .used for some convention projections
and a feature program entitled "See and Sea." Explorama presented a traveladventure film on "China" and was so well pleased with the results that
they are bringing in their entire season's presentations (Greece, Israel, Fin•
land, Alaska, Portugal, Germany, Bali, etc.), fifteen shows in all.
We are well suited for the presentation of fashion shows, one such being
given by the National Auto Dealers Association for its convention delegates.
The EBONY Fashion Show appears in our Auditorium each year as a
climax to a national tour.
Annual examinations for the State Board of Accountancy and the State
Bar were held in our Exhibit Hall, and the impressive Ceremony of Admission to the Bar took place in the Auditorium. Bank of America and
Transamerica Corporation had successful stockholder meetings.

of

0cCUPANCY

We have continued our policy of diversifying the usage of our Auditorium
and Exhibit Hall. We favor concerts, conventions and business such as
stockholders meetings, symposiums, etc. This policy is helpful when one
source of usage drops off.
Our Auditorium has become well-known nationally as one of the finest
facilities on the Pacific Coast and it is recognized as a cultural center for
our locality.
It has been our pleasure this past year to serve the conventions held by
the National Association of Electrical Distributors · Ortho Pharmaceutical
Corporation; Academy of Pediatrics, Pacific C~t Builders; California
Dental Association, which uses our facilities yearly· and the United States
'
Savings and Loan League.
The beautiful Ballet Folklorico of Mexico, the Bayanihan Philippine
Dance Company, the Irish Rovers and The Dubliners, and the Noh Theater
of Japan brought headline attractions from foreign countries.
The J uilliard Quartet played in our Auditorium for the first time this
year; Guy Lombardo brought happy memories to many oldtimers with his
concert; and Fred Waring and his Pennsylvanians returned again for another
outstanding performance. We were privileged to have, among single artists
the great classical guitarist Andres Segovia; Flamenco guitarist Carl~
Montoya; John Williams, Sabicus, Alexander Slobodyanik, noted pianist;
and Jose Greco, famed Flamenco dancer. Also presented in our Auditorium
and very well received were the well-known Judy Collins, Beverly Sills and
Charles Aznavour.
Our interest in public education makes our presentation of graduations
each summer a very important event. Each year thousands of high school
students graduate from our Auditorium; this year six schools on as many
evenings held their ceremonies in our facility. Many students return in

PROJECTION

Lily Tomlin of "Laugh-In" fame; The Jamaican Folksingers; the Conn
Organ Extravagam a featuring George Wright; Hal Holbrook in "Mark
Twain"· and many other outstanding artists are scheduled to perform.
Britlsh Week will be held in San Francisco in October and exhibits will
be on display in our Exhibit Hall. In our Auditorium we will have the
London Philharmonic Orchestra which will be attended by many people of
prominence including H.R.H. Princess Alexandra of England. This perfor.
mance will 1be followed by the Welsh Chorus "Pandyrus."
We have already completed contracts for many performances runmng
into the summer of 1972. A good occupancy is ·anticipated for the coming
year.
CONVENTION FACILITIES

The Hyatt Hotel which was planned for the property adjacent to the
Temple has been abandoned. Stanford Court Hotel is nearing completion
and will be open for business next year. Numerous hotels and motels are
still being built in the area and others are on the drawing board. The St.
Francis Hotel has partially opened its new tower and main dining room as
has also the Hilton Hotel.
The Yerba Buena convention complex planned for the South of Market
area is still tied up in legal problems. These were caused by residents ~f
the area who would be required to move to make room for the center. This

194

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

further delay has hurt convention business in San Francisco owing to the
necessity for completing contracts several years ahead. It is now hoped,
however, that the legal difficulties will be cleared.

and, in order to purchase the same, a bank loan was obtained on which there
is a present balance of $198,277.50. Since these properties were acquired
at the direction of the Grand Lodge the Board has requested the Committee
on Finance to include, in its recommendation to the Grand Lodge, a per
capita tax of not less than 50 cents per member in order to liquidate all or
a portion of this indebtedness.
_
In accordance with the instructions of Grand Lodge the Board of Trustees
held two meetings with Robert D. Lintner, Chairman of the Board of Library
Commissioners, as to the needs of space for an adequate Masonic library,
study rooms, periodical rooms, rooms for research and study and offices for
a librarian, together with rooms for bookbinding, mailing and cataloging.
The Board of Trustees then engaged the services of Milton T. Pflueger,
A.I.A., a prominent architect in San Francisco, to make a thorough study of
the properties we acquired and to make recommendations as to how best to
utilize the site.
The Trustees held several meetings with Architect Pflueger and his son,
who is also an architect, and it immediately became apparent that it would
not be practical to erect a structure solely for a library and museum. Present
construction costs for such a structure would be very substantial and would
not provide us with additional income. In addition, in our present Temple
there is a considerable shortage of storage space and there is much need for
space for additional offices of the Grand Lodge and for the Masonic Homes
of California. Our present facilities are totally inadequate as far as office
space is concerned. Furthermore, since we are now renting the Auditorium
for cultural events and other purposes, it is extremely desirable and, in fact,
almost necessary to have a freight elevator to bring equipment to the main
floor of the Auditorium. At the present time our freight elevator only goes
up to "G" floor where our Exhibit Hall is located. This necessitates moving
heavy stage and other equipment through the main foyer of the Temple.
In addition, the Board of Trustees was extremely concerned about erecting
a structure without providing additional sources of revenue. Our present
Exhibit Hall has many shortcomings primarily due to the spacing of the
concrete pillars throughout the whole area, and many prospective tenants
have refused to rent the hall because of this disadvantage. There is a great
need for exhibit space in San Francisco and increased revenue could be
obtained if the new addition contained one or more exhibit halls. At the same
time the new structure could provide additional garage space which would
also give us increased revenue. The architect states the expansion of our
garage facilities would result in a better flow of traffic and likewise provide
additional revenue.
Since the mandate of the Grand Lodge was to present plans for a Grand
Lodge Library and Museum, the Board of Trustees feels that it should
have some direction from Grand Lodge as to the erection of a structure
Which would not only house a library and museum but would also provide
for expanded facilities of our present Temple and facilities which would

LAND ACQUISITION

At the 1969 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge the following resolution was adopted:
"RESOLVED, That the Temple Board Trustees be requested to
acquire at the most reasonable price the two properties needed to
complete the area behind the Temple window and that said
Trustees prepare plans for the development of the property which
shall be presented to Grand Lodge for approval prior to any
construction."
At the 1970 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge Most Worshipful
Grand Master Chester R. MacPhee made the following recommendation:
(Recommendation No. 2)
"It is my recommendation that this Grand Lodge instruct the Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, together with the
Library Commission, to continue working on the plans for the
development of our Library and Museum as a part of this building
and present a finalized report for consideration at the Annual
Communication in 1971. The report should include consideration of
feasibility, suggestions as to contents, size and location, estimates
of cost, as well as a possible modest per capita tax increase, if
needed, to effect the program. We should take specific steps to
achieve any goal and our Library Museum is such a worthwhile
goal."
At the same · Communication the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes reported as follows:
"Recommendation number two is that the Trustees of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple and the Library Commission continue
working on plans for the development of a Grand Lodge Library
and Museum and present a finalized report at the 1971 Communication. I so move and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a 'yes' vote."
This motion was adopted by Grand Lodge.
Pursuant to the mandate of the Grand Lodge, the Temple Trustees have
acquired the remaining two parcels above referred to, one for the sum of
$151,199.65 and the other for $158,232.45. The Board of Trustees believes
that the prices paid for these two properties were reasonable. With the
purchase of these two properties we now hold title to four parcels of property
on Pine Street immediately to the rear of the Temple. The cost of the four
parcels of property and the improvements thereon amounted to $622,649.29

196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

bring additional income. The architect states that his fee for the study that
he had made to date was $14,000, $7,000 of which would be credited against
any fee for a feasibility study that he would be called upon to make, and
the balance of $7,000 would be credited against a graphic report, including
slides and illustrative material that he would be called upon to prepare. If
he were called upon to make a feasibility study, including an economic
report, his total fee would be $20,000, less the credit of $7,000. No part of
this $20,000 fee would be recoverable. To make a graphic report, including
slides and illustrative material, his fee would be an additional $30,000, less
the credit of $7 ,000. This latter fee of $30,000 would be credited against
his total architectural fee if he went forward with the project. The architect
further proposed that a model be made of the proposed structure for a cost
of approximately $3,500, which sum would not be recoverable. The new
structure envisaged by the architect would be a beautiful and attractive
building with a large open area behind the endomosaic window, and the new
building would become an integral part of our existing Temple.
The architect estimated that the erection of a new structure, such as that
proposed by him, which would not only house the Library and Museum but
provide us with the additional space needed for our own operation as well as
revenue-producing facilities, would involve a total expenditure of approximately $6,000,000, including furnishings.
Your Board of Trustees did not desire to incur the additional architectural
expenses for a feasibility study or for the graphic report, illustrative material,
etc., until Grand Lodge expressly authorized such expenditures.
This action of the Board is not in any way to be construed as opposing
the erection of a structure to house a library and museum but, in view of
the additional architectural expenses involved and the total approximate
cost, it desires to have specific authorization from Grand Lodge to incur
such additional expenses, it being understood that no construction will commence until specifically approved and authorized by Grand Lodge.
Your Board of Trustees is only anxious to carry out your wishes and
will instruct the architect to proceed with his studies as above outlined if
specifically authorized by you.
The Board expresses its thanks to Brother George D. Gavin, Executive
Manager of the Temple, for his untiring efforts in behalf of the complete
efficient operation and management of the Temple. Appreciation is also
extended to the staff for their conscientious effort in maintaining the building.
Respectfully submitted,
IRA W. COBURN, P.G.M., President

(1972)

197

Officers and Trustees:
IRA W. COBURN, P.G.M., President (1972)
DEWALD M. BAUM, Vice President (1972)
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, P.G.M., Treasurer
EnwARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M., Secretary
LESTER S. McELwAIN, Deputy Grand Master
WAYNER. LEE (1973)
Ono ROHWER (1973)
JAMES CRAVEN (1971)
SAMUEL I. JACOBS (1971)
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Finance.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes: The Report of the California Masonic Memorial Temple Trustees has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes because of two policy determinations
requested in the report.
First is a request to the Committee on Finance to include a per capita
tax of not less than 50 cents per member to accelerate liquidation of a present
bank loan. We have discussed this with the Committee on Finance and we
will concur with its report.
Second is a request for Grand Lodge authorization to the Memorial
Temple Trustees to proceed with a proposal calling for a feasibility study,
plus illustrative material, for the development of our Library and Museum
on property which was procured behind the Temple for needed expansion.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes the Memorial
Temple Trustees should proceed with the proposed study and report, with
the understanding that authorization for preparation of final plans will not
be made until such study and report has been received and approved by
Grand Lodge.
I move that the Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
be authorized to proceed to secure a feasibility study and such related
reports as in their judgment are necessary to enable this Grand Lodge to
make a ·careful decision in the future concerning the development of the
Pine Street property owned by Grand Lodge, and that the costs of the study
and reports be provided from Temple funds.
The Committee on Finance: The Trustees' Report of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple was referred to your Committee on Finance. We
have reviewed this report and we find two areas therein in which we are
particularly concerned.
The Trustees have recommended a per capita tax of not less than fifty
cents per member in order to liquidate all or a portion of the existing bank
loan in the amount of $198,278.00.
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the cash flow and the revenue
and expenses of the Memorial Temple and, after projecting a normal year of

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

operation, it is our opinion that sufficient funds will be generated to retire
this bank loan in a reasonable time.
On the subject of the architectural fees and other initial planning costs,
which have not been resolved at this writing, we further project that such
costs could also be borne by the Memorial Temple.
Your Committee on Finance, therefore, recommends that the suggested
per capita tax of fifty cents not be added to the current budget.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has indicated its concurrence in this recommendation.
(NOTE: By separate actions of Grand Lodge the recommendation of the
Committee on Policy and General, Purposes and of the Committee on Finance
were adopted.)
Adopted.

PER CENTUM
Calendar
H ospitaJ,
Year
FICA
Insurance
Total
19724.6
.6
5.2
5.0
.65
5.65
1973-1975
1976-1979
5.15
.7
5.85
1980-1986
5.15
.8
5.95
1987 and thereafter
5.15
.9
6.05
As a practical matter, the total tax (i.e., 5.2% for 1972) may be applied
to subject wages as no apportionment is required.
Legislation that is currently before Congress could, if passed, increase
the rates and the taxable wage base. You will be advised if such legislation
is enacted.
·
FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT TAX

198

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To lhe Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of CaJ,ifornia:
Since filing our report for 1970, there have been changes in the payroll tax
laws which apply to our various Masonic Organizations.
As has been our custom in the past, we present, for reference purposes,
the usual schedule of tax rates and wage bases for the various payroll taxes
which will be in effect during the calendar year 1972 and thereafter.
FEDERAL WITHHOLDING (INCOME) TAX
All wages paid to employees of a Masonic Lodge are subject to Federal
Income Tax withholding. In order to determine the amount of income tax
which is to be withheld from wages paid to its employees, the Lodge should
ask each employee to complete and file with the Secretary of the .Lodge a
Federal Form W-4, "Employee's Withholding Exemption Certificate".
Reference to current withholding tax tables furnished by the Treasury
Department will enable the Secretary to determine the amount to be withheld.
These will be revised as of January 1, 1972, due to a change in the personal
exemption amount.
CALIFORNIA WITHHOLDING {INCOME) TAX
There is legislation pending which may require withholding of California
State Income Tax. You will be advised if such legislation is enacted.
FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS (SOCIAL SECURITY)

As the law now stands, an employee of a Masonic Lodge is subject to
tax for each calendar quarter during which he earns $50.00 or more. The
tax rates shown below are applicable to the first $9,000.00 of wages paid
to each employee during the calendar year. These rates are to be paid by
both the employer and the employee.

Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if they qualify as an "employer"
by employing on each of twenty days (each in a different calendar week)
during the preceding or current calendar year, at least one employee for some
portion of the day, or pay wages of $1,500 or more during any quarter in the
current or preceding calendar year. For this purpose, all paid employees of
the Lodge, including the Secretary and those who are performing ritualistic
services (Tiler, Organist, Soloist), should be counted. Federal Unemployment
Tax at the rates shown below will be applicable to the first $4,200.00 of
wages paid to each employee during the calendar year. However, Lodges which
are subject to the California Unemployment Insurance Tax Law, and which
meet certain requirements, will be entitled to a credit up to 2.7%. Only the
employer pays Federal Unemployment Tax.
Maximum Credit
Tax Rate
For Payment of
Tax Rate
(Net)
Calif. Unemp. Ins. Tax
(Gross)
Calendar Year
.5%
2.7%
1971 and thereafter
3.2%
(as law now provides)
The Federal Unemployment Tax Liability is computed quarterly and the
tax due is deposited in authorized banks, provided the amount exceeds
specified limits. The Lodge should obtain from the Internal Revenue Service
detailed instructions to implement the deposit procedure.
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX
Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if the total wages paid during
a calendar quarter to taxable employees are in excess of $100.00. For this
purpose a taxable employee is one who is paid $50.00 or more per calendar
quarter. However, whether or not elected or appointed officials of a Lodge are
to be counted as taxable employees will depend upon whether or not the
lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act.
If the lodge is not subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, then

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Calithe ~ges paid to an elected or appoint ed official will be exempt from
officials
these
to
paid
wages
the
unless
Tax
ce
Insuran
t
loymen
Unemp
fornia
exceed $100.00 per month.
the
If th~ lodge is subject to the ~ederal Unemployment Tax Act, then
nia
Califor
to
subject
be
will
official
ted
appom
or
wages paid to an elected
t to
amoun
officials
these
to
paid
wages
the
if
Tax
ce
Insuran
t
Unemploymen
$50.00 or more per calenda r quarter .
will
. For purpo~ of this tax, the term "elected or appoint ed official"
Those
.
services
his
for
sated
compen
is
who
Lodge
include any offioal of the
Organi st
usually ?>mpensated for their services are the Secretary, Tiler '
'
and Soloist.
the
If the Lodge is subject to Califor nia Unemployment Insuran ce Tax
ee
empioy
each
to
paid
base
00
$4,200.
a
to
rate: shown below will be applicable
dunng the calenda r year 1972.
Only the employer pays the tax.
Rates are based on employment experience:
e is in
Gradua ted fr?m 0.0 or 0.8% (depending upon which rate schedul
rate.
of
tion
notifica
furnish
will
State
2.7%.
of
effect) to a Maximum

Masonic
lication. It has continued to mainta in its standin g among the best
Masonic
with
readers
its
supply
to
ied
diversif
is
publications. Each issue
so that
Lodge
Grand
to
allotted
is
space
Some
ion.
inspirat
and
information
Masons may know about state-wide activities.
of our
A quarter ly cannot serve as a news magazine, but with the help
.
section
letter
our
in
items
ing
interest
and
l
readers we report many unusua
year
each
e
exampl
For
letters.
all
publish
cannot
we
that
We greatly regret
noted we
there are at least 1 800 present ations of 50 year buttons . If each was
when
items
these
use
to
would have long llsts of names. It is only possible
known.
well
is
t
recipien
the
there is an unusua l situatio n or
ers
There has been a gratifyi ng number of paid subscriptions from sojourn
and from interested persons in other states and countries.
the
The present per capita of 35 cents has been just sufficient to cover
!or
suffice.
~II
This
.
mailing
and
ting
cost of preparing, printing , distribu
ility
probab
a
is
There
us.
e
overtak
costs
rising
as
times
the future until such
of an increase in second class mailing charges.
's
The financial figures for the past fiscal year will be found in the auditor

200

Cu.uoR NIA UNEMP LOYME NT INSURANCE TAX-B ALANC

report.
Respectfully submitt ed,
NEWCO MB CoNDEE, &litor-in-Chief

ING AccoUN T FUND

t
Wages sub!;ct . to the tax ~der the heading "Califo rnia Unemploymen
from 0.2%
Insuran ce Tax will also be subject to this tax. The rate can vary
rate will
to 1.0%. Only the employer pays this tax. For the year 1972, the
be 0.8%.

HERBERT A. HUEBN ER

EDWARD H. SmMs

Grand Secretary
Grand Master
Referre d to Committee on Finance. (Budge t Allocation)

CALIFORNIA DISABIL ITY INSURANCE TAX

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY

rnia
The rules regarding coverage, discussed under the heading "Califo
Only
law.
the
of
part
this
for
Unemployment Insu~ance Tax," are the same
to the first
the employee. pays this tax. The tax rate is 1.0% and it is applied
$8,000.00 paid to each employee.
Respectfully submitt ed,
Al.ExAN DER CRoCE, Chairman

W. STANLEY DAVIS

RAYMOND B. liAizLI P

WILLIA M G. MACKAY, Consultant

Adopted

REPO RT OF CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
PUBLICATION BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
nia
The Grand Master is responsible for the publication of the Califor
Grand
the
of
consists
which
Freemason. He heads the Publica tion Board
Secreta ry and an Editor-in-Chief whom he appoints.
ly pubThe magazine has now completed its ninetee nth year as a quarter

•

To the Most Worshipful Grand U>dge, F. & A. M. of California:
to the
The members of this Committee wish to express their appreciation
e
privileg
the
for
r
Huebne
A.
t
Herber
,
Master
Grand
our
to
Grand Lodge and
has
Lodge
Grand
of serving. The cooperation of the Grand Master and the
again made this year a pleasure.
c
Our work on the project photog raphing and cataloguing all of the Masoni
~
to
due
year
.this
slowly
gone.
has
Hawaii
buildings in California and
r Cowgill
accident suffered by Brothe r Paul Cowgill of this Comnuttee. Brothe
in the
files
our
of
out
was to be our inside man at Grand Lodge; working
home
at
now
and
l
hospita
the
to
d
Masonic Library . But he has been confine
report
to
happy
are
We
year.
this
of
most
for
with a broken hip and leg
in action
that he is now well on the way to recovery and should be back
in last
stated
as
,
soon. We can then get on the work on the questionnaires
year's report.
historic
At the request of the Grand Lodge we again are reportin g on an
ntion.
interve
Lodge
Grand
ed
site that has request
submit
With respects to resolution No. 5 of this year's Communication we
the following report:

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
REPORT oN HISTORIC 'fEMlPLE OF BENICIA LonGE No. 5

The Chairman of your Committee on Masonic History met with a special
committee from Benicia Lodge to determine the situation concerning this
historic building and has been able to gather the following information:
This Masonic Temple was the first built as a Masonic Lodge in California.
Construction was commenced in March of 1850 and was completed later that
same year. The first meeting held there by Benicia Lodge was on October
14th, 1850. It was officially dedicated on St. John's Day, December 27th
of that year. The building was in continuous use by Benicia Lodge until
March 10th, 1888, when they moved into their new Temple building erected
on the adjacent property.
Benicia Lodge lost title to the historic Temple from shortly after its
removal until January 3rd, 1950, when it was reacquired by the Lodge by
purchase from Solano County.
It is now being maintained as a Masonic Shrine by Benicia Lodge No. 5.
From 1950, when the Lodge was reacquired, until the present time many
Lodges have performed degrees there. It is one of four sites where this can
to be done without special dispensation. The four being:
1. In the Lodge room at the Masonic Home at Union City.
2. In the Historic Masonic Temple at Columbia.
3. In the Old Masonic Hall of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.
4. At the Benicia Historic Temple.
This according to Section 324 of the California Masonic Code.
At the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge in 1949 the reacquisition of this building was discussed by various Committees. It was agreed
that Benicia Lodge should be helped in regaining their former temple.
Benicia Lodge did reacquire it but needed no financial help at that time. Title
to the property is now held in the name of the Lodge and is free and clear
of all liens and encumbrances.
Now, after standing for 120 years against the elements, this historic
building is now in need of large scale reconstruction. The foundation particularly is showing signs of erosion.
The special committee on the preservation of the building, appointed by
the Master of Benicia Lodge, has been working with the city building inspector of the City of Benicia. They have also contacted several building
contractors in the area for bids to repair the building. It has been agreed
that to bring the building up to code and to keep it as a Masonic Shrine
the following should be done:
A. Move the building back 10 feet toward the rear of the lot and plant
grass and shrubs in front for beautification.
B. Rebuild the entire foundation.
C. Bring all plumbing and electrical work up to code.
D. Sand blast and repaint exterior and repaint interior of the building.
E. Repair all windows and sash that may be broken in the move.
Benicia Lodge has received two bids from licensed contractors for this

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

203

work. One from the R. & K. Construction Co. of Benicia is in the amount of
$10,188.00. The second bid is from R. E. Bradley of Vallejo in the amount of
$11,740.00. At the request of this Committee Benicia Lodge obtained a third
bid for comparison. The third bid, from Siri Construction Co., is in the
amount of $14,400.00.
For Benicia Lodge to expend this much money would entirely deplete their
total resources.
We then come to the crux of this matter. What can be done with this
historic Temple. There are three alternatives to which we can tum:
1. Reject any request of Benicia Lodge for financial aid in this matter
and let them either raze the building or find their own means with
which to fix it up themselves.
2. Have Grand Lodge make them a loan at little or no interest with
which to repair the building.
3. Have Benicia Lodge deed the site over to Grand Lodge and have
Grand Lodge make all the repairs on the building.
In our discussions with the members of Benicia Lodge on this matter
your Grand Lodge Committee has reached the following conclusion:
1. If the request of Benicia Lodge is ignored it will, in the near future,
have to raze the building for lack of compliance with the building code.
This would be a tragedy in the perpetuation of the history of Masonry
in our State.
2. A loan to Benicia Lodge would create a hardship on their financial
resources. Their ability to repay such a loan would be impaired by
the rising cost of maintaining their own meeting place and paying
their own incurred bills.
3. The deeding of the property to Grand Lodge seems to be the best
solution. It can be accomplished in the following manner: Benicia
Lodge deeds the property to Grand Lodge who will then expend the
funds needed to put the building into the proper condition. Grand
Lodge can then lease the building back to Benicia Lodge for a determined period. Benicia Lodge will then operate the Historic Temple
and will be responsible for its upkeep, including taxes, insurance, any
minor repairs, etc. They will also be responsible for maintaining it
as a Masonic Shrine.
In this way the history of California Masonry will not suffer another
broken link in its chain.
We are enclosing with this report graphs showing the income and expenditures of the Historic Temple over the last six years. Also enclosed are
the minutes and the final report of the special committee appointed by the
Worshipful Master of Benicia Lodge No. 5.
Portions of this report are referred to the Committee on Finance and
to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
There was a dissenting vote from Brother Ralph E. H. Cooper, of this
Committee.

204

205

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This Committee would like to acknowledge a gift from Brother Morris C.
Guss, P. M. of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 of a volume of the "Western States
Jewish Historical Quarterly." The lead story in this volume concerned Rabbi
Abraham Wolf Edelman, Past Master of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 in 1868,
'81, '83 and '84. He was also the Charter Master of Wilmington Lodge
No. 198. We thank Brother Guss for this presentation.
In order that your Committee on Masonic History may continue its work
for the coming year we submit the following budget:

We are planning on having a dimmer switch installed in the Lodge Hall.
Because of some cracks in the ceiling of the museum, five hundred dollars
was budgeted last year for constructional examination of the building. After
examining the blue prints of the Temple, the State Construction Inspector
told us that there is nothing to worry about, but he did recommend that two
coats of Thompson's Water Bar be applied to the outside of the building.
This was last done in 1962. The cracks in the ceiling have been repaired and
painted and the floor in the foyer has been painted. The cost of these projects
is included in our budget.
Sixteen lodges from various parts of the state have conferred degrees in
the Temple during the year. We hope that more of the Orders will make use
of the Temple next year.
During the June conference held in Sonora, the Most Worshipful Grand
Master of the State of California, the Deputy Grand Master, and other
Grand Lodge Officers visited the Columbia Temple.
The Worthy Grand Matron and the Worthy Grand Patron, of the State
of California, Order of the Eastern Star, with some of their staff, families
and friends also were shown the Lodge Hall and Museum.
We would welcome anything of historical interest, pertaining to the early
days of Masonry in California, to exhibit in the Columbia Museum.

Postage . . . . • • . . • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 60.00
Photographs, slides and reproductions . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.00
Travel expense for field work and meetings . . . . . . . . . 400.00
Telephone expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
40.00
This is a total amount of $700.00. We ask that this sum be appropriated
for use by this Committee during the coming Masonic year and hereby so
request.
Respectfully submitted,
PHILIP L. GoLDSTEIN, Chairman
PAUL COWGILL
RALPH E. H. CooPER
FRED 0. SHEIUULL

REGINALD REYNOLDS
TONY A. BURNSIDE
DENNIS A. COBB

Referred to Committees on Finance (budget allocation), and on Policy
and General Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes: The report of the Committee on Masonic History has been referred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes. This report deals at some length with proposed plans
for the restoration of the Historic Temple of Benicia Lodge No. 5. The position of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes as to the proper
policy course in relation to restoration of this important Masonic historical
building is set forth in our report on proposed Resolution No. 5. The conclusions stated by the Committee on Masonic History essentially coincide
with the action requested by the proponents of Resolution No. 5 and we
invite your attention to that Resolution and our report thereon.
Adopted.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
THE COLUMBIA MASONIC TEMPLE

PROPOSED BUDGET FOR THE COLUMBIA MASONIC TEMPLE

1971-1972
Fixed Charges & Expenses
Utilities • . . .... . . . . . .............. . $500.00
Miscellaneous Expenses . ........ . .. . . 400.00
96.00
Burglar Alarm Service . .......... .. . .
Tape Recorder Service . ... . . . . . ~ ... .
50.00
Insurance . . . . ........ . . ... . .. ... . . 103.24
60.00
Tuolumne County Taxes . ... . ....... .
1.00
Rental (Beaches & Parks) . .. . . . .... . .
50.00
Furnace - Insp. & Service . ......... .
Custodian .. . ... ... . . . ... . .. ... . .. . 800.00
Improvements:
Dimmer Switch Installation . .. .... . . .
Exterior Seal - Two Coats .. . .. . ... . .
Paint Floors - Foyer & Rest Room .. . .
Patch & Paint Ceiling of Museum .•....

75.00
567.00
32.00
220.00

To the Most Wr>rshipjul Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. oj Calijr>rnia:

The Columbia Temple Committee held two meetings in Columbia during
the past year with all members present.
The Pacific Gas and Electric Company has completed the underground
wiring, the steel door in the basement has been rebuilt, and the interior of
the Lodge Hall has been painted.

$2,060.24

894.00
Total $2,954.24

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM D. ARCHER, Chairman
DONALD M . STEWART
DONALD D. PITMAN

v.

PHIILIP
DYBDAL
JOHN MENZIES

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

206

207

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

REPO RT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES

Infractions of our laws, rules and regulations under the jurisdiction of
this committee have been minor in nature. No Masonic trial resulted from
any matter of violation.
The infractions or violations have been handled through discussion and
an understanding with those in violation that said violations will cease and
desist. Several examples of items referred to the Commercialism Committee
are as follows:
One of the members of the Clandestine Bodies was in violation of using
the Square and Compass, with the letter "G" cente~ed the~ein, in. h;i~ advertising. Communication with officers of the Clandestine Bodies was xrutiated
and the matter was ftnally referred to the Grand Secretary for further investigation. Since the Square and Compass are the property of the Grand
Lodge of California, its use must be by permission of the Grand Master
of this Body.
Permission was recommended to the Job's Daughte rs and Rainbow Girls
to sell birthday calendars, as long as the calendars gave no indication of the
sponsoring organization.
One of our Brethren .wanted to open a gift shop and turn the proceeds
over to a Masonic Lodge. By law, the Lodge could not enter into such an
enterprise whereby commercialism was used to raise funds.
A number of charitable athletic events were reviewed by the Committee.
The audited fi.nancial reports of the Shrine football games conducted in
California and Hawaii were submitte d by the Most Worshipful Grand Master
and examined by the Committee, with recommendations and conclusions
reported to the Grand Master. In general, all of these events have been well
conducted, the costs and expenditures were within reason and the net proceeds
have been paid to the Shrine Hospitals.
One charity football game for 1971 was approved by the Committee with
the recommendation to the Grand Master that a defi.nite directive be established at the annual Communication regarding the percentage of expense
that should be allowed for such events.
The Associated Students have requested that a minimum fee against a
percentage of gross ticket sales be paid by the Shrine Temple. The Committee
believes that this type of expense removes the proposed event from the
character of charity and that the Associated Students are, in effect, making
a substantial profi.t from .what should be a charitable event. The Grand
Master concurred with the Committee's recommendation and bas requeste
d
the Committee on Commercialism to prepare a special report with recommendations concerning the above problems for the 1972 Communication.
Your committee does not initiate investigations. Its activities originate
with complaints which are referred to the Committee. A member of the
Committee is assigned each complaint and after investigation the fi.nal report
is forwarded to the Grand Secretary. Continual education of the Brethren
will help to reduce the number of complaints. If in doubt as to the legality

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Our Committee is happy to report that the number of visitors to our old
Temple, nestled in the "heart of Los Angeles", has shown a decided increase
over last year.
This factor is due to the fact that our Temple is open in conformity with
the hours of the much-publicized "Tour of the old Plaza de Los Angeles
"
Many of the visitors are non-Masons, from all areas of the United Stat~
Canada and a number of foreign lands. Our guide and caretaker, Bro. Home:
M. Glock, does an excellent job in showing visitors through the Temple
a?d has made such a profound impression upon them that many have in~
dicated an enthusiastic interest in our Craft. Undoubtedly some of these
former visitors have joined Masonry.
Our. Committee feels a keen disappointment in the lack of fraternal int~r~t disp~ayed by. many of our Lodges in not scheduling
meetings here, or
VIS1ting this _beauyful resu~rected "mecca and shrine" of Freemasonry in
Southern Califor~~· All Semor Wardens attendin g Grand Lodge should make
e'!~ry ~ffort t? VISI~ our Temple; they will be so impressed
to schedule a
visit with their entire Lodge. A number of Lodges have sponsored meeting
s
here in this hallowed Temple.
The Temple at this time is being completely painted (at the expense of
the State) and we feel confident that any brother visiting this beautifu
l
hallmark of Masonry will be visibly impressed.
Th~ budg~t allocated in the past will be sufficient for the
following year,
or until the time we may have to remain open a full week, instead of the
three days we are presently open (Thursd ay, Friday and Saturda y). Tours
are conducted on these days at 10:00 a.m., 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon
Over 2,000 visitors were conducted through the Hall in 1970. We are s~re
that a larger total will visit the Temple this year.
Respectfully submitted,
BENJAM IN M. WEISS, Chairman
HERBER T HARGRAVE, JR.
WALTER H. WAYMA N

MELVIL LE H. NAHIN
JULIAN WoLJr

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPO RT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
COMMERCIALISM
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

Y?ur Co~ttee on Commercialism herewith submits its report for the

year JUSt ending.

208

209

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of an affair a letter to the Committee asking recommendations will further
reduce violations and infractions.
Your committee appreciates the helpful cooperation of the Grand Master
the Grand Secretary and the Grand Lodge Officers. It has been a privileg~
to have worked with each of them.

What effect real property taxes may have on the building and operation
of temples, is, of course, subjeet to future consideration. However, at this
time the matter is receiving much attention from many sources. For instance,
there is at the time of preparation of this report a petition in circulation to
prohibit a real property tax greater than one per cent of . the value. This
petition is calculated to be placed on the ballot as an initiative measure.
Considering further the problems presently facing Lodges and Temple
Associations with regard to taxes it will be recalled that both the Federal and
State governments have recently revised the exempt status of certain organizations such as religious, educational, fraternal and charitable, or those
identified therewith, with a particular endeavor to see that there is not a
connection that results in the consummation of a business which is in fact
a commercial venture properly subject to taxation. This is referred to in the
so called reform legislation of 1969 as unrelated income. While this matter
is presently receiving a great deal of attention there has not, as yet, developed
any rulings or decisions which will with any degree of assurance determine
for Lodges and Temple Associations the precise amount of tax, if any.
These problems indicate the need for those interested to make a determination whether a temple should be a single purpose facility or one which
might in part, be properly used for rent or lease to any person or company
with an outside interest. The question as to whether the use is substantially
incident to Lodge requirements is dependent on the purpose for which used
and tax rulings to be expected in the future.
Notwithstanding the increased cost of construction it is to be noted that
due to urban development, earthquake and old age it is increasingly necessary
to rebuild, repair or demolish old established temples. Many of the older
Lodges are finding it necessary to establish new quarters. As a consequence
there is a constant drive to accomplish what appears in some cases to be
almost an insuperable problem.
The Committee expresses its appreciation to the Grand Master, Most
Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner for his consideration of Temple and kindred
problems, to the Deputy Grand Master, Worshipful Lester S. McElwain, who
has served in a liaison capacity, and to the Grand Secretary, Assistant Grand
Secretary and their staff for their unfailing efforts to assist in any way
possible.
The work of this Committee is continuous and demanding, requiring constant application and effort and in some situations requiring specialized consideration and knowledge usually under conditions requiring fast action.
The efforts of the members, therefore, require diplomacy, tact and great care.
We trust that those efforts have proven of value to those requiring assistance.
There is attached hereto an appendix indicating the action taken on
requests processed since the last annual report. Other matters are pending
and will be reported on at a future date.
In view of the necessity for stationery, mailing costs, travel and expenses

Respectfully submitted,
]AMES J. DALTON, Chairman
CLARENCE GUFFEY
STANLEY H. NIELSEN
T. GALT ATWOOD

Roy T. KIELE

VINCENT P. MCMURDO
ARmUR M. Wn.r.IAMs
EDWARD E. SMITH

MARK E. Scm.ocx

GERALD W. PAGE

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPOR T OF COMMITTEE ON
LODGE FINAN CING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Lodge Financing takes pleasure in submitting its
~ual report for the 1970-1971 Grand Lodge year. It is a matter of great
pnde ~tan o~rt~ty has been given to cooperate with the brethren to
~ccomplish. the bwlding of temples which will evidence the faith of those
future of Masonry as well as the present ability to enjoy
inte~ested 1~
preoous facilities as a meeting place and the creation of a tangible' valuable'
asset.

.t?e

The construction of a temple is daily shown to be a priceless asset because
of land
?f the presen~ day cost incident to its construction. The acquisitionresult
the
a
as
and
day
every
scarcer
getting
IS a first cons~deration. Land is
in
due
ically
astronom
risen
have
costs
Building
.
value has ~p1dly increased
ted
necessita
has
This
labor.
and
material
both
of
value
increased
the
part to
on a numi;>er of occasions the joint effort of several Lodges to build a meeting
place. ~s has been a p~ocluctive feature concentrating as it does on the
construction of a well-designed and well-built structure which stands as a
monument to the resourcefulness, pride and ability of our membership
The high co~t above referred to, has been brought about, not only by the
value. of ~ten:11 and labor but by inflation and the effect of additional
taxatio~ which in many cases has been confiscatory in its effect As a concre~e evidence of this factor it is but necessary to consider only ~ne incident
whi~ refl~ts on the entire problem. A holding of several acres of land
obtained. with. the object. of building a temple thereon has been appraised
on a basis which results in ~ raise of property tax ·from a former $3,500.00
_p_er Y~ to $7,000.00. It will be readily seen that this problem makes the
sttuation almost prohibitive for individual effort.

•

211

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

necessary to be incurred, a request is made of Grand Lodge for an allocation
of expenses for the ensuing year of $2,000.00.
Respectfully submitted,

for regular membership shares and to the expenditure of said funds to
enclose the Lodge room portion of the building.
Rro VISTA LODGE No. 208

210

IVAN T. CRASE, Chairman
VICTOR R. OLTMANN S
BENJAMI N L. SUSMAN
CAMPINI
ROBERT
STUIW
GEORGE
Y, JR.
BRANTLE
K.
S.
KEITH V. JOHNSON
BURDETT E J. MCKINN IS
WESLEY W. HONEYM AN

Rro VISTA MASONIC TEMPLE AssocIAT ION

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

UNITY MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent for the Temple Association to withdraw approximately
$5,726.00 from its funded depreciation reserve and expend said funds
for necessary air conditioning installation.
UNITY LoDGE No. 368

w.

w.

Consent to expenditures for new air conditioning installation.
GRAFTON LoDGE No. 141

APPEN DIX

GRAFTON MASONIC HALL AssocIAT ION

PITTSBUR GH LoDGE No. 429

Consent to transfer of $3,625.00 of Lodge funds to the Temple
Association for regular membership certificate.
Contingent authorization for a bid for adjoining land and for $500.00
more if necessary.

Approved purchase of parcel of land for $9,900.00 subject to an
assessment of which $5,100.00 will apply to property being purchased.
HOLLYWOOD LoDGE No. 355
HOLLYWOOD MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approved the formation of a new Temple Association assets of which
will be the assets of the old association to be transferred upon dissolution.
SOQUEL LoooE No. 746

PoMONA LoooE No. 246
COMPASS LoDGE No. 590
POMONA VALLEY MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approval of Compass Lodge to transfer securities valued at $3,894.00
on March 1, 1970, to the Temple Association in exchange for regular
membership at current valuation to be determined by agreement with
Pomona Lodge.
Transfer of $2,000.00 cash by Pomona Lodge to the Temple Association in exchange for regular membership certificate.
The Temple Association to expend $1,200.00 for preliminary building plans and to enter into a contract with architect the fee to be based
on a percentage of the ultimate building cost, conditioned upon subsequent application to the Committee for consent to additional expenditures under said contract.
SANTA YNEz VALLEY LoooE No. 701

SoQUEL MASONIC TEMPLE AssocIAT ION

Consent granted to purchase Odd Fellows hall for $15 1000 payable
$7,000 cash, execution of an $8,000.00 note and first deed of h-ust and
'
a possible $1,300.00 note payable to a Lodge member.
OAK PLAINs LoDGE No. 789
OAK PLAINs MAsoNIC BUILDING AssocIAT ioN

Consent to the expenditure of an additional $2,100.00 for dining
room construction.
HAMMON TON LoooE No. 433
HAMMON TON MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIAT ION' INC.

(1_) ;APP~ov~ to transfer $14,000.00 of Lodge funds to the Temple
of

Association ID increments as needed in exchange for certificates
membership.
c~mmence construction and proceed to enclose the new temple
(2)
to an estimated cost of $20,000.00.
Or.IVE BRANCH LODGE No. 269

SANTA YNEz VALLEY MAsoNIC BUILDING AssocIAT ION

!o

MASONIC TEMPLE COMPANY , TULARE

Consent to transfer $3,000.00 to the Temple Company in exchange
for regular membership shares.
Purchase of property by the Temple Company for $11,000.00.
SouTH WEST LoooE No. 283
SOUTH WEST MASONIC TEMPLE CORPORATION

Consent to transfer $75,000.00 in increments as needed in exchange

•

Consent to the improvement of required off-street parking facilities
in Solvang at an approximate cost of $3,175.00 plus interest on borrowed
funds, if any.
SAN JoAQUIN LoDGE No. 19
MORNING STAR LoDGE No. 68
DELTA LoDGE No. 471
STOCKTON LoDGE No. 498
CHANNEL LoooE No. 757
THE MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF STOCKTON
A meeting with representatives of the above Lodges and Association
in connection with a joint effort to erect a Masonic edifice in the city

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of Stockton. This forward-looking plan based on combined work of all
the Lodges and the members thereof was an admirable demonstration
of what might be accomplished under any and all circumstances.
EL CAJON VALLEY LoDGE No. 576
EL CAJON vALLEY MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
(1) Consent to the trnasfer of $1,500.00 of Lodge funds to Temple
Association to pay for drawings and building permit. Consent to the
transfer of $9,900.00 of Lodge funds to Temple.
( 2) Consent to expenditure of approximately $21,421.00 by Temple
Association for proposed building addition.
( 3) Association in exchange for membership shares, withdrawal of
$6,400.00 from Temple Association's funded depreciation reserve and
to the necessary borrowing against the Temple Association's time certificates of deposit.
KEITH LODGE No. 187
KEITH HALL CORPORATION OF CALIFORNIA
Consent to erect a new temple for the contract price and projected costs
of a total of $129,348.00.
REDWOOD CITY LoDGE No. 168
REDWOOD CITY MASONIC HALL ASSOCIATION
Consent to the transfer of $12,600.00 to the Hall Association for the
purpose of installing an air conditioning system.
SAN JoSE LoDGE No. 10
SAN JOSE MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent for Lodge to transfer to the association the sum of $15,000.00
for the purpose of acquiring property on which to construct a temple.
GoLDEN RULE LoDGE No. 479
SAN JoSE MAsoNIC TEMPLE AssocIATION
Consent to transfer to Association the sum of $45 000.00 for the
purpose of acquiring property on which to construct a ~ew temple.
FRIENDSHIP LoDGE No. 210
SAN JOSE MASONIC TEMPLE AssoCIATION
Consent to transfer the sum of $15,000.00 for the purpose of acquiring property on which to construct a new temple.
McCLoUD LoDGE No. 430
MCCLOUD TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent to revision of purchase agreement by acquiring property
for ~ obtained from a bank, using Lodge certificates of deposit as
secunty.
(SAN LUIS OBISPO) - MASONIC HALL ASSOCIATION
Consent to expenditure of $9,268.00 to remodel ground floor of
Temple to accommodate new tenants.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

YOSEKITE LoDGE No. 99
){AsoNIC BUILDING AssocIATION oF MERCED
. Consent to the purchase of $35,000.00 in shares of stock by Yas&oute ~ge ~o. 99. from its building association for the purpose of
moderruzmg, improvmg and remodeling the present Temple.
SoUTH WEST LoDGE No. 283
SOUTH WEST MASONIC TEMPLE CORPORATION
Consent to the expenditure of $35,000.00 of money realized from
the sale of the old temple and $15,000.00 from Lodge funds on the
construction of a new temple.
STANISLAUS LoDGE No. 206
MODESTO LoDGE No. 675
UNITED MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE OF MODESTO
Consent to enclose for approximately $225,000.00 and proceed as
far as possible with the over-all program approximating $541,129.00.
EAST SAN Dmoo LoDGE No. 561
EAST SAN DmGo MASONIC TEMPLE CORPORATION
Consent to transfer of $17,083.90 from the Lodge to the Temple
Corporation in exchange for shares of the Temple Corporation to cover
cost of preliminary design fees.
SAN MARINO LoDGE No. 685
SAN MARINO FOUNDATION
Consent to the expenditure of $9,946.00 for the installation of an
air conditioning system.
SAN FERNANDO LODGE No. 343
SAN FERNANDO LoDGE BUILDING AssocIATION
Consent to transfer $35,000.00 from the Lodge to the Building
Association to repair damage due to earthquake of February 9, 1971.
CARQUINEZ LoDGE No. 337
PINoLE LoDGE No. 353
CARQUINEZ-PINOLE MASONIC BUILDING ASSOCIATION
Consent to purchase two acres plus in Pinole for the price of
$13,000.00 and closing costs for purpose of ultimately constructing a
Masonic Temple thereon.
READING LODGE No. 254
REDDING MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent to the borrowing of $175,000.00 for funds to complete the
Temple now under construction. This action taken due to failure to
obtain expected funds frQm donors. It is the hope that the borrowing
will prove temporary only.
Adopted.
At 12:05 Grand Lodge was called off until 1:30 P.M.

215

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION -TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1971

been a success. A special "hats off" to our friends in the dairy industry.
The billboard program was continued again this year and some 125
billboards, urging visitation of the public schools during April 26-30, were
posted on major highways in California in full view of millions of motorists.
Major food chains throughout California were contacted requesting that
in their weekly food ads the week prior to Public Schools Week some space be
devoted toward the promotion of Public Schools Week. This is the fifth
year that the Committee has promoted this program and the response
each year has been greater with each succeeding year. We are most encouraged with the results of this program and strongly recommend that it
be continued.
Proclamati~ns from public officials designating the week of April 26-30,
1971, as Public Schools Week were obtained throughout California and
Hawaii.
A "Certificate of Appreciation" was created by your Committee this year
to be given in recognition of meritorious civic service by participating in
Public Schools Week. Nine hundred seventy-seven of these certificates were
presented, primarily to school personnel by Lodges throughout the jurisdiction. The project was considered a success and an up-dated printing is
encouraged for 1972.
·

214

At 1 :30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
Past Master Woodrow C. Cavanaugh, master of Florence Lodge No. 423,
raised Grand Lodge. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee this year, consisting of twenty-five members and two
consultants, wish to extend to the Grand Lodge Official Line, including the
Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary, our gratitude for their
counsel and assistance to the Committee during the past Masonic year.
Three committee meetings were held during the past year: October 13,
1970, January 16, 1971 and May 1, 1971. It is interesting to note that 80%
of the committee members and consultants attended all three meetings and
that the average attendance was twenty-two members. Many guests were
also present during these meetings and their contributions were of great help
to the Committee.
Once again a special recognition must be given, because of their great
devotion and contributions, to our two consultants Brothers Richard R. F.
Lehmann and Oscar E. Anderson.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK APRIL 26-30, 1971

"The Public Schools - Pillars of Wisdom, Strength and Beauty" was
the slogan selected by the Most Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner, Grand
Master of Masons in California and Hawaii for this year. The slogan, with
its Masonic connotation, was extremely well accepted and utilized by Masonic
groups. Many non-Masonic groups particularly those in the public school
system also adopted the slogan and used it extensively.
Your Committee is extremely proud of the results of our Annual Public
Schools Week - a partial list follows:
Thirty thousand official posters and bus cards, printed at Los Angeles
Trade Technical College under the direction of Brother Pete Florio, were
distributed through the office of the Grand Secretary.
The pamphlet "The Masons of California and Hawaii Salute Their School
Administrators and Teachers" gained its highest degree of popularity this
past year when it was again offered to the Lodges at no cost. The demand
necessitated three printings and a distribution of 75,000 copies. A new
pamphlet is now on the drawing boards and it is hoped that it will be
available early in 1972.
The media of radio and television were very generous with their time.
The Grand Master, several Committee members and other prominent Masons
appeared on radio and television programs.
In excess of eight million milk cartons carried a panel promoting Public
Schools Week. This project has been in effect for many years and has always

SPECIAL RECOGNITION

The concordant bodies of Freemasonry, through their generous contributions again this year, made it possible for the Committee to perform additional important activities and they have our everlasting gratitude.
Our "thanks" also goes to the teacher groups and many school systems in
California and Hawaii for their help and cooperation during and prior to our
Public Schools Week Observance.
NEXT PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK APRIL 24-28, 1972

"Keep The Public Schools Strong, The Basis For Freedom and Democracy" is the slogan for the 1972 Observance as announced by the Deputy
Grand Master. Your Committee feels that the slogan is an excellent one and
will be widely acclaimed.
WHAT Is AHEAD?

Your Committee, for the past several years, has functioned as a yeararound Committee, without de-emphasizing Public Schools Week concen~ting on the problems of our public schools. Not the least of these 'problems
this last year has been the over abundance of anti-public schools legislation
that has been submitted to the Legislature. Some of this legislation has passed
committee and is awaiting action of the floor. Each member of your Committee and in particular those members of our sub-committee on legislation have
fought the battle and done a yeoman job in getting the word out to the
Brethren in our jurisdiction concerning our problems in Sacramento. The

216

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Grand Master, with his message in the Grand Master's Bulletin and the The
California Freemason, has been of great help but until we reach the grass
roots of Masonry we can not hope to completely succeed. Due to the work
of o~r organization and oth~rs sympathet ic to the principals of a good, free
public sch<>?l system as was 1~tended by our forefathers in Freemason ry, the
most drastic measures submitted to the Legislature involving a voucher
system do not (at least at this writing), appear to be able to pass this session.
However, lesser "foot in the door" bills do seem to have a fair chance of
becoming law. This, then, my Brethren, is not a time to relax but to double
our efforts and to express our feelings to our elected representatives that
we as individuals are against the use of public monies for private education.
~y Brethren, we have a tremendou s challenge ahead of us. If it were just
.
possible to awake and unleash this sleeping giant of California and Hawaii
Masons, some 235,000 strong, plus relatives and friends how easy our job
would be. The challenge is ours, however, and we need' not look over our
shoulder or elsewhere for help because if the job gets done it gets done here.
Let's join hands and awake this giant of ours. May the Supreme Grand
Master assist us in our endeavors.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RECOGN ITION OF
FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

BUDGET

The Committee respectfully requests a budget for the ensuing year in
the amount of $9,000.00. This item has been submitted to the Finance
Committee.
Respectful ly submitted,
RICHARD H. Dunvn.ER , Chairman
GEORGE HIATT
EARL VAN VORST
CLYDE M. STINE
WILLIAM R. PORTER
ROBERT KERR
LAURENCE C. Coox
THOMAS SCARLETT, JR.

Purr.IP C. REINER
ROBERT M. EVANS
ROBERT P. BI.AXE
DARROL E. DAVIS

GEORGE HESS
RICHARD A. HEBERT
DANA A. TuRPIN
WILLIAM ZIMMERMA N
MILTON M. RUBIN
DEAN L. SHIVELY
RICHARD F. PEARCE
RODGER SIEMS
RAYMOND REEDER
M. W. HOLSINGER
ROLAND 0. HUGHES
WILLIAM EILERS

Consultants:
RICHARD R. F. LEHMANN
0scAR E. ANDERSON

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

217

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
HAITI

Last year Grand Lodge accepted this Committee's recommendation that
the petition for recognition of the Grand Lodge of Haiti be held over. From
information we have received, we can report that the Grand Master, Carnot
Adrien, and the Grand Secretary, Gerson Alexis, are regular, and individually,
of the highest character. Since Haiti has a French background, it is quite
natural that this Grand Lodge is strongly influenced by and continues in
relations of amity with the Grand Orient of France, which we in California
consider to be irregular. Additional information is being sought, and at the
moment I do not want to close the door to eventual recognition, nor do I
want California to be only the second Grand Lodge in the United States
to grant recognition.
So, the recommendation of our Committee is to again postpone action on
this matter.

are

GRAND LODGE ALPINA OF SWITZERLAND

Since I have already touched on the Grand Orient of France, perhaps I
should now mention the Grand Lodge Alpina of Switzerland, with whom the
United Grand Lodge of England has severed relations. We leam from the
latter's quarterly Communication that there is substantial evidence of
visitation by irregular masons, presumabl y from Lodges under the jurisdiction
of the Grand Lodge of France. The Grand Lodge Alpina has issued a Bulletin
by which we are informed of its adherence to basic Masonic principles and
that any particular contacts, such as ritualistic work in their temples, with
any pseudo-masonic or para-masonic bodies not under the control or direction
of a Grand Lodge which has been recognized by the Grand Lodge Alpina
of Switzerland, "must be uncompromisingly avoided."
In the confidence that the edicts of the Grand Lodge will be obeyed, your
Committee sees no need at this time to disturb the amity which presently
exists between our Grand Jurisdictions.
CHILE

In connection with recent political and economic events in Chile, the
President of that Country, Senor Salvador Allende, has been variously
described in our news media as a Marxist, an atheist and a mason. To
resolve this seeming contradicti on, our Grand Secretary queried his opposite
member in Chile and we are informed that Brother Allende was made a
mason in 1935, served as W. M. of Hiram Lodge No. 65, and has been active
in the Craft during his masonic life. Also, that he has never declared himself
to be an atheist but has publicly reiterated that he is a mason, and finally

218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that since Allende's younghood he has been a member of the Socialist Party
and never of the Communist Party, those parties being antagonistic to each
other. The Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Chile adds that Communists cannot be members of Chilean Freemasonry.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE

MExrco
There seems to be increasing interest among the Lodges of the United
States of Mexico in obtaining recognition from foreign Grand Lodges. Your
Committee has before it petitions from the Gran Logia "Occidental Mexicana"
whose seat is in Guadalajara, and whose jurisdiction includes the States of
Jalisco, Colima, Nayarit and Michoacan, and the Grand Lodge "La Oriental
Peninsular" seated in Merida and claiming jurisdiction over Yucatan, Quintana, Roo and Belize.
At the present time, we lack sufficient information to justify recommending
recognition of either of these Grand Lodges.

BRAZIL
We have also been requested to exchange representatives with the Grand
Orient of Brazil.
Two years ago I devoted most of my Report to Brazilian Masonry, so it is
only necessary now to remind the Brethren of Grand Lodge that there are
two powerful Masonic Powers in Brazil: the Grand Orient, claiming jurisdiction over the entire country, and the State Grand Lodges claiming jurisdiction over the particular state in which they exist.
We recognize seventeen of these Grand Lodges.
At the present time there seems to be Treaties of Amity between the
Grand Orient and all the state Grand Lodges, but our letters from the Grand
Orient indicate that they are to be considered the only regular Masonic
power in Brazil.
Until we have further information as to their fraternal inter-relations, we
recommend that the Grand Lodge of California does not extend recognition to
the Grand Orient of Brazil.
Respectfully submitted,

WILLIAM RHonEs HERVEY, JR., Chairman
J. NEn. HANSON
HENRY F. PuTHOFF, JR.
Adopted

219

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Constitution of the United States has been a bulwark for freedom for
184 years, and guides a Nation that has survived while most of the other
}eading Nations of the world have deteriorated or collapsed. This government of the people and for the people has existed as a polestar of guidance in
a turbulent and changing world, because its citizens fundamentally believed
in and followed the tenets of our Constitution.
It will continue to exist only as long as the principles and bases of the
document are fully understood and correctly interpreted, and as long as a
free people have the courage to stand firm against aggression.
Your Constitution Observance Committee is pleased to report to the
Grand Lodge that, through the splendid support, enthusiasm and efforts of
the Craft as a whole, we are able to report an outstanding year of accomplishment on this most important program.
Your committee on Constitution Observance consisted of thirty-one
members and one Advisor. Four meetings were held during the Masonic
year. The Committee has endeavored to implement and carry out the theme
for this Masonic year as set forth in the Grand Master's Constitution Observance Proclamation, proclaiming the month of September, 1971 to be
Constitution Observance Month in the Jurisdiction of California and Hawaii;
and directing all Lodges to arrange and perform, or actively participate in,
pitriotic exercises, to which the public is invited, with the objective of demonstrating faith in our Nation, intensifying our allegiance to it, denouncing its
enemies within or without, and pledging that justice without undue delay
or unconscionable interruption will always prevail.
The ultimate success of this year's program must certainly be ascribed
to the mass communication coverage, through radio and television announcements particularly in the Metropolitan areas of Los Angeles, San Francisco
and San Diego.
Because of the disappointing results in previous years, many Lodges do
not put forth the enthusiasm they should because of a feeling of "What's
the use? No matter how hard we work, we still can't get the response we
desire."
Following a lengthy discussion by this Committee at a meeting held on
March 14, 1970, in San Francisco at which time twenty-three members were
present, your Chairman appointed a sub-committee of five members headed
by Brother Richard Hopelain to examine alternate methods of presenting
our Constitution Observance Program.
'
The purpose of this study was to reach the largest possible number of
people with the message of Constitution Observance. Through our Lodges,
Newspapers, Radio and Television. On June the 29th of this year, Your

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

er Hopelain a most
Constitution Observance Chairman received from Broth
ted cost of News-.
comprehensive report outlining the methods and estima
r and Deput y
Maste
Grand
papers, Radio and Television coverage. Your
sub-committee
this
that
study
the
st
intere
Grand Maste r have read with great
this subject.
to
ed
direct
be
is
analys
s
seriou
r
furthe
prepared and suggest that
in a distinctive
Your Committee feels that if our program is produced
by Television
ed
welcom
be
would
m
progra
a
manner it is believed such
to
cost Grand Lodge.
Stations as a public interest program and shown without
that it is our best
think
While television is the most costly venture, we
Progr am out of
vance
Obser
itution
opportunity. Television takes the Const
sophisticated
only
which
t
impac
the
it
gives
the "Tow n Meeting" class and
e.
achiev
means can
e which we could
Television offers an additional advantage and a servic
of each program
made
be
could
dings
Recor
provide on a year-round basis.
y and civics programs.
and made available to schools to supplement their histor
ial which we could
Clubs and groups are always seeking program mater
e in charac ter from
chang
would
service. Our Constitution Observance program
all throughout the
to
ble
availa
e
servic
a once a year projec t to a continuing
year.
this opportunity
On behalf of our Grand Master, your committee takes
s appreciation
expres
and
m
progra
every
and
to formally acknowledge each
on behalf of
labor
ted
dedica
of
hour
every
for
en,
Brethr
to each of you, my
ms. Our
progra
vance
our Frater nity's sponsorship of Constitution Obser
ary and
Secret
Grand
ant
Assist
thanks, too, go to the Grand Secretary, the
l and
cordia
ed
receiv
has
nce
assista
for
t
the Grand Lodge Staff. Every reques
ion.
promp t attent
continue, sustain
This constitutes our full and final report for 1971. To
Observance
itution
Const
on
ittee
Comm
your
m,
and amplify this progra
the coming
during
requests the sum of $2600.00 be appropriated for its work
Masonic year.
SUPPL EMEN T

meaning of our
At a time when we bicker among ourselves about the
with you a
share
to
re
pleasu
of
deal
own Constitution, it gives me a great
d your
reache
have
that
ts
Repor
r's
Maste
the
random sampling taken from
ms
progra
of
y
variet
Committee. These samplings will illustr ate the scope and
presented this year.
for 13 Lodges
Flint Hall, DeAnza College in Cupertino was the setting
ed a program
attend
in the Santa Clara Valley, where more than 1100 people
Army Color
Sixth
Band,
consisting of a Doctor's Orchestra, Sixth Army
Alquist as
Alfred
or
Senat
state
and
es,
Guard, singing groups, short speech
.
itution
Const
States
United
main speaker on the
m in the elemenMaxwell Lodge No. 288 held a very well planned progra
speaker for
main
the
was
an
Chapm
C.
J.
tt
tary school whre Brother Evere
the evening.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

221

k Night , in HayBack-to-school, Constitution Observance Family Potluc
spoke on The
Navy,
States
1'&I'd, where Capta in Vance Dawkins, United
No. 243
Lodge
yptus
Eucal
.
itution
Const
our
Relationship of Youth, Navy and
g's
evenin
the
for
talent
their
off
show
to
e
chanc
a
s
gave the Youth group
entertainment.
a crowd of over
The Lodges of the 368th Masonic distric t played host to
where the Most
vale,
Sunny
in
rium,
600 at the Fremo nt High School Audito
evening and
the
for
r
speake
ple
princi
the
hee,
Worshipful Chester R. MacP
Canadian Legion
his wife were escorted into the auditorium by the Royal
itution of the
Const
Pipe band. Brother Chester selected for his subject, "The
United States and You".
of activi ty for
Bateman Hall in the City of Lynwood, was again the center
vance day.
Obser
itution
Const
a
for
d
planne
well
14 Blue Lodges in a program
Past Grand Chaplain
Over 500 filled the Hall to hear Dr. Kenne th A. Carlson,
of California, speak on our Constitution.
d Vice President
Under the direction of Brother George E. Frank , Secon
a program prisco,
Franci
San
of
of the Masters and Wardens Association
perfon ned by
units
ing
march
and
ons
marily devoted to musical selecti
orium here
Audit
Rite
sh
Scotti
the
at
held
was
s,
members of our youth group
Chester R.
ipful
in San Francisco. The principle speaker was the Most Worsh
briefly
spoke
Alioto
Joseph
MacPhee, Grand Treasurer. His Honor Mayor
.
itution
Const
and directed his remarks to the Unite d States
ll game between
At San Diego Stadium just prior to an evening baseba
Silver Gate
5,000,
over
of
crowd
a
before
s,
the Padres and the Atlan ta Brave
its Constage
to
ce
audien
e
captiv
a
of
tage
advan
Lodge No. 296 took
ituConst
the
on
stituti on Observance program. Brother Frank Whelan spoke
lay.
DeMo
local
the
tion. The Colors were presented by the members of
vance held its 6th
The Orange County Committee on Constitution Obser
Masonic Lodges,
22
by
red
sponso
annual parad e and program in Buena Park
Lodges. The
Moose
2
and
Lodge
Elks
1
ils,
17 Knights of Columbus Counc
e route.
parad
the
along
mile
one
ed
extend
and
s
entrie
parad e consisted of 70
Farm.
Berry
's
Knott
The program was held in front of Independence Hall at
encomm
t
highes
our
of
y
This program gets larger each year and is worth
dation.
day in the Senate
Our SOth State celebrated its Constitution Observance
17 S adults and
where
ulu,
Honol
in
ng
Buildi
l
Chamber at the State Capito
s at the ceremony.
20 minors from many foreign countries were made citizen
.
s.
This dual program was a "standing room only" succes
at the Founder's
again
Five Districts, a total of 20 Lodges, assembled once
crowd well over
a
with
es
Angel
United Church of Religious Science in Los
of police Tom
Chief
r
forme
to
listen
and
1100 to see our youth in action
.
itution
Reddin speak on our Const
of Brother Bill
The Masons of Nevad a City can once again be proud
ever Constituthan
Lambert and his fine committee for a bigger-and better
and bis comBill
er
Broth
tion Observance Parad e and Program this year.

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mittee were rewarded by a crowd of over 5000 who lined the parade route
to view marching bands, unicycles, clowns and dozens of other fine groups
as well as a fine speaker for the afternoon.

experience found in the membership. This includes nine recent Past Masters
of California Lodges, the Inspector of the District, and others with proven
records of Masonic capability.
It is the unanimous recommendation of the Committee that a charter
be granted and number assigned to Tustin Lodge No. 828 in the City of
Tustin, County of Orange.
There has been assigned to our Committee that portion of the Report
of the Grand Secretary listing changes of meeting place of a number of
Lodges, and also that portion relating to the following consolidations:
York Lodge No. 423 and Florence Lodge No. 649, to be known as
Florence Lodge No. 423; also Pacific Lodge No. 136 and Lebanon Lodge
No. 495, to be known as Lebanon-Pacific Lodge No. 136.
We recommend that the Grand Secretary be authorized to properly
endorse the above charters to carry out these changes.
This would normally conclude the report of the Committee on Charters,
however, I have received permission from the Grand Master to add a few
remarks. I have been studying the minutes of the Committee on Charters
covering the past fifteen years and I would like to share the results of this
study. (I might insert at this point that I have to be careful of what I say
because our Grand Master was chairman of the Charters Committee during
most of this time and would qualify as an expert witness.)
During the 15 year period, 88 Lodges have been chartered. There were
3,751 charter members, of which about 2,500 were California Masons and
the rest sojourners. The 1970 Proceedings show the total membership of
these 88 Lodges to be 14,453. In other words, the 2,500 California Masons
in the new Lodges had brought in 11,953 new members.
Now lets look at the total membership of Grand Lodge for this same
period. In 1955, the membership was 224,887, rising to a peak of 244,586 in
1965 and dropping to 233,855 in 1970 - a net gain of about 9000 members
over the fifteen years. In other words, in the past 15 years, 2,500 California
Masons in the 88 new Lodges attracted 11,953 new members while the other
approximately 220,000 Masons in the other 614 older Lodges showed a
net loss of about 2,900 members.
There is an old saying that figures don't lie but that liars do figure and
I hasten to add that this is probably an oversimplification of our membership
situation, but it does point up beyond question that our total membership
trend is strongly influenced by the formation of new Lodges.
The point of all this is that our laws and regulations, (and I would not
change them), prohibit the solicitation of new members - but there is
nothing Masonically illegal or Masonically improper in actively encouraging
and assisting the formation of new Lodges. Other organizations attach great
honor to the Club or Chapter which actively sponsors a new club, yet in
many cases the only problem is to find a certain number of worthy people
willing to sit down at an established eating place and have a meal together.

Respectfully submitted,
HERMAN R. Moou, Chairman
CHARLES N. CLARKSON
JACK B. CRAWFORD
ARREN L. BACON .
DONALD BRENT
EARLE
ARBUCKLE
ROBERT SCHULTZ
WILEY T. KILLINGSWORTH
JAMES E. CALHOUN
J.ums T. COULSON
NORMAN SMITH
CLYDE E. RODGERS
LLOYD J. PATTERSON
LOUIS M. FRAWLEY
CLIFFORD L. DUNCAN
R. WILLIAM CARL
WILLIAM
BRITTON
PHIL N. CRAWFORD
WARREN A. RAKE
ALBERT BROTHERTON
ROBERT E. HEDBLOM
CARL MINTON
JoSEPH W. DRAKE
DARRoL D. DAVIS
RrcHARD HoPELAIN
STUART M •.CowAN
TED SKOLL
EDWARD
WREDE, JR.
MILTON OTT
GEORGE M. HALEY
GLEN A. WORRELL
MELVIN BAER, Advisor

w

c.

s.

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The only new Lodge formed since our last communication has been
Tustin Lodge U.D. which received a Dispensation dated July 2, 1971, was
instituted on July 28, 1971, and has now applied for a charter.
Tustin is an incorporated city in Orange County just south of the City
of Orange and east of Santa Ana. The area was mainly agricultural until about
1960 but has since become a residential community for the rapidly growing
surrounding areas which include the extensive Irvine Development. Despite
the population explosion, this is the first new Lodge in this part of the country
since 1925 and will be the only lodge in Tustin.
An unusual aspect of this Lodge is that it meets in the parish hall of St.
Cecelia Catholic Church. The Lodge has had enthusiastic support from
Father John Sammon, Pastor of St. Cecelia's, and has also had complete
cooperation from the Knights of Columbus who share the building.
The officers and representatives of Tustin Lodge have submitted the
required records and have met with the Committee on Charters. Both the
records and interviews have been most satisfactory and all the requirements
of our ordinances have been fulfilled. While the time under dispensation has
been short, we feel that this is compensated for by the wealth of Masonic

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A Masonic Lodge has a more difficult birth! The members who start it must
already belong to the Craft; a suitable meeting place must be found; the
officers must be proficient in both the ritual and our laws; and the new candidates must come of their own free will and accord. All of these problems
can be solved but sometimes a new group needs some help.
There are 10 Lodges in our jurisdiction with over 1,000 members; there
are 125 Lodges with over 500 members; there are Lodges adjoining fast
growing areas - too far away to adequately serve the new community, but
near enough to help form a Lodge. I am appealing to these Lodges; to the
Masters, the Officers, and the Past Masters, to consider as a project, the
formation of a new Lodge. This does not mean robbing an existing Lodge
of its members, but it does mean helping find the nucleus of a new group,
helping them find a meeting place (and it is surprising what ingenuity will
do in solving this problem), and giving them assistance and advice in solving
their problems. In case you are thinking that this sponsorship might furnish
competition to older Lodges and hurt them, I can say that it has been
the experience of the Charters Committee, that the activity and enthusiasm
of a new Lodge attracts a new group of potential candidates and sojourners
and that there is little effect on the growth pattern of existing Lodges.
The Charters Committee stands ready to help whenever called upon.
There is a manual available that details each step in forming a Lodge and
I am sure the Inspector Corps will cooperate as they always have.
And so I am urging that this jurisdiction take a new approach to the
formation of Lodges - that we actively and aggressively sponsor and assist
them and that we pay due honor to the Lodges and members who accept
this challenge. Instead of depending on "Spontaneous Combustion", let's
light the match and then fan the flame so that when a worthy young man
considers joining our fraternity, there will be a door upon which he can
knock and a brother there to say, "Let him enter!"
This concludes the report of the Committee on Charters.
Respectfully submitted,
KENNETH HEMPHILL, Chairman
RoBERT A. SMITH
FRANK HOMER
EDWARD G. VAN PELT
MERLE F. LOGUE
RONALD E. }ONES

Adopted.

LEWIS G. McCALL
ALFRED T. GRUENING
HARRY L. MAYNARD
HAROLD M. HAND
WILLIAM: D. KNIGHT
EDWARD H. PICRAY

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

225

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Correspondence Committee of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, respectfully submits the within Review covering Masonic Jurisdictions,
other than California, and with whom California maintains Masonic recognition.
It has been said that all Masonic Grand Lodge Jurisdictions, as well as
their constituent Blue Lodges, are maldng surveys in an attempt to learn the
cause of lack of growth of Masonic Lodges, including membership losses. Some
have increased youth organizations, promotions; some have expended efforts
of increasing Masonic news in newspapers, radio and TV; more scholarship
programs are being developed and such activities as non-realistic programs joint programs with other organizations, which have a prerequisite Masonic membership discussion group meetings, increased social meetings, more
public installations of officers and meetings for presentation of SO-year emblems, etc., are becoming more common.
It has been said that the young man is not joining any fraternal order. Do
not worry about it. Petitioners in their early twenties are very few. Instead,
young men are in the military service of their country. Others, including those
in military service are either going to be, or are married, buying a home with
a 20 or 30 year mortgage, or deed of trust - buying a sports car, a television
set, have children, hospital bills and the worry about education of their children. All this will take time and money - a lot of both. When the young man
gets in his early 40's, or later, he will become a good prospect for petitioning
a Masonic Lodge.
Here are some gleanings from the various books of proceedings which your
committee received.
Alabama started an "Endowment Pennies Program" and ten lodges participated the first year, contributing $2,101.85. Florida has had this program
for a number of years, which is named "Let your pennies make Good Cents",
and in 1970 Florida's contributions totaled $224,027 .63.
What is known as "St. Luke's Program" is a new venture of Connecticut,
developed by a physician and named after St. Luke, the physician, its intent
being to bring a feeling of brotherhood, unity, involvement and consideration
for the needs of others, primarily to older men aand women to make them
feel that they belong and that Masonry is interested in their welfare.
The Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia has a Grand Lodge Physician whose duties it is to attend all Grand Lodge meetings to administer
emergency or first aid attention to anyone requiring it.
Georgia adopted the District Deputy Grand Master System.
Idaho Lodges are asked to provide the Grand Chaplain with the name and
address of a Brother's widow immediately following his death so that he can
express the sympathy of the Grand Lodge.
The Illinois Medical Center started in 1921 with 53 available beds, now
has grown to a 620-bed capacity.

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Indiana has adopted a resolution to eliminate the require.ment .t?at a
petitioner for the degrees in an Indiana Lodge must be an Amencan crtizen.
Iowa sponsors a Toy for Tots Christmas part:r. Toys . are rebuilt ~n~
repainted at the Masonic Home and then at Christmas time under.-pnvileged children in the area are served with refreshments and each given a
toy, candy and fruit.
The Grand Master of Louisiana ruled that a lodge could not accept the
petition of an orthodox Rabbi because "he cannot kneel for taking an obliga·
tion because he must wear a black skull cap and because he must use a Bible
'
. the ceremorues.
. ,,
containing
only the old testament m
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts has a committee to study N~ro Masonry and it consists of all living Past Grand Masters. The subject was
termed "important and complicated."
For the first time in Montana Masonic history the Grand Master made
an entered apprentice a Master Mason on sight. He was seriously ill in a
hospital. He died 26 days later.
North Carolina's Grand Master ruled that a candidate need not be required to remove his false teeth before initiation. .
.
Portland, Oregon, may be the most Masonic City. It has a population of
400,000 and has 34 Masonic Lodges.
South Dakota's Grand Secretary-Treasurer announced that he sent news
releases of pending district meetings to every newspaper and radio ~d tel~­
vision station within each district, but added, "I'm not sure we gamed m
attendance."
In his message Texas' Grand Master stated that Edwin E. (Buzzy) E.
Aldrin, one of the ~tronauts, was a Texas Mason and that he had authorized
him to claim Masonic Territorial Jurisdiction on the Moon for the Grand
Lodge of Texas.
The Grand Master of Utah admonished Utah Lodges to "watch carefully as to whom you elect as your Worshipful ~aster for he is the symbol
of Freemasonry. It is from him that our leadership must come. He must com. "
mand the respect of the commuruty.
. .
.
.
The Grand Master of Washington ruled that it is not a violation of the
Washington Masonic Code for a Brother seeking political office to list his
Masonic affiliations.
All high schools, public and parochial, and all private secondary schools
in West Virginia, were informed of the availability of assistance from ~he West
Virginia Grand Lodge Scholarship Fund. It was announced there 1s no requirement as to race, creed, color or sex.
.
.
Louisiana's Grand Master ruled that a Masomc Lodge could receive the
petition of a blind man who had had his natural eye sight, is self-sufficient,
operates a business and has a seeing eye dog.
Alberta's Grand Master told of his visit to Yellowknife Lodge, the most
northerly Alberta Lodge, and that it was the largest gathering of Masons in
that latitude and the outside temperature was 46 below zero.

Ireland's Grand Master announced that a former resident of Masonic
Boys' School had been appointed a Bishop by the Archbishop, and he added
that he was the third "Masonic Old Boy" to become a Bishop.
Japan's Grand Master reported that the "Craft received very favorable
publicity" in two newspapers regarding the Masonic wheelchair program, and
the Grand Lodge assistance to the Chitose School for retarded children.
New Brunswick's Grand Master reported his thrill at attending a meeting
of a Lodge where he opened Grand Lodge with all of the offices filled by 50year veterans, representing almost 1,000 years of Masonic membership.
The Grand Lecturer of Prince Edward Island did a little scolding in his
report, saying: "It is a sad fact and one that should bring the blush of shame
to the faces of many Masons that their business is so urgent that they have
not time to attend lodge, when they have been seen at a party on the very
night of lodge meeting."
At the 11th Biennial Conference of the several Grand Lodges of Canada,
the two discussions were: "Freemasonry and Liquor, should the modern Bar
be provided in lodges for pre- or post-meeting periods for the use of our
Brethren and how to make the refreshment period vital and valuable," and
the relationships with the Knights of Columbus in light of the recent Vatican
pronouncements to lifting the threat of ex-communication of Roman Catholics
who join the Masonic Order.
Missouri's Grand Master, urging more consolidations, stated: "We are
enjoying in short-sighted policies by permitting weak lodges to continue in
existence - (which is) harmful in that it exposes an image of failure and
inefficiency to the world."
Freemasons' Hospital in Victoria, Australia, is big business. During the
year, 3,485 patients were treated and a total of 2,351 major and 659 minor
operations were performed. Only 45 per cent of the patients treated had
Masonic connections.
Nova Scotia is the only Canadian Grand Lodge operating a Masonic
Home.
At the annual Malheur Cave meeting in Idaho, the meeting began with
"the famous roast beef dinner, starting with rattlesnake meat cocktail."
The committee is requesting that for the fiscal year 1971-1972, the Committee be allocated a budget of $400.00, which is the same figure on which it
has operated in recent years.
We sincerely trust that this report has been interesting and offers certain
benefits by way of suggestions as to what other Masonic Jurisdictions are
doing, or at least contemplating doing, to best advance the interests of the
Masonic Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR., Chairman
FRED

w. MORRIS

J. WILSON GETSINGER
FLOYD F. WEATHERFORD

c. s. BARRETT
CARL 0. HARVEY
BILL J. ABBOTT

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

227

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND ORATION -

1971

"THANK GOD I AM AN AMERICAN"
BURTON MEYER, JR., Grand Orator

Most Worshipful Sir, Grand Lodge Officers, Distinguished Guests and
Brethren:
"I believe in the United States of America as a government of the people,
by the people, for the people; whose just powers are derived from the consent
of the governed; a democracy in a republic; a sovereign nation of many
sovereign states; a perfect union, one and inseparable; established upon those
principles of freedom, equality, justice and humanity for which American patriots sacrificed their lives and fortunes. I therefore believe it is my duty to my
country to love it; to support its Constitution; to obey its laws; to respect its
flag; and to defend it against all enemies."
Nearly 200 years ago, at the Constitutional Convention of 17 8 7, after many
months of careful deliberation and many heartaches, there was engrossed upon
parchment a document unique in the history of mankind. Of the 39 signers of
our Constitution 23 were Freemasons. From that time forward, the fabric of
our nation has b~en woven with the golden threads of Masonry always evident,
creating a tapestry that has been the centerpiece of admiration for nearly two
long centuries. This great nation was born out of the agonizing existence of
oppression of a foreign nation. It is the oldest continuous form of government
in existence today. Freemasonry is also the oldest continuous fraternity in existence today - the two go hand in hand because the principles upon which
each were erected are the principles which have made each of them a shining
light in the history of mankind. The basic principles of Freemasonry and the
basic principles of our Constitution are inseparable. The members of our Fraternity therefore played an important part in the creation of the United States
of America.
Today we should, as Masons and as Americans, be concerned with the
events in our history during the past few years. Our country was founded in an
atmosphere of turmoil but in a spirit of excellence. Throughout our history,
trouble has come and gone but our high purposes have remained intact. Today,
the standards we raised are still vital in a complex and changing world. We are
being challenged to hold to our high ideals and to share in the great American
dream - freedom and justice and equality for all; the pursuit of happines.5
and the absence of fear; where man's loyalty is to God and to his country.
It is inconceivable that it should be necessary to have an "Honor America
Day". We should, each day of our lives, thank God that we have the rare
privilege of living in this great country and to be Americans. We should be
concerned about those who would seek to destroy our way of life, seek to
destroy all that this nation stands for and what it has meant to the millions of
persons over the years - and to those who have fought and died to preserve
the very things that made this country great - our cherished ideals and our

229

dreams of an ever improving tomorrow. Our nation was conceived in liberty
and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. This nation
has survived and endured events in our history that have destroyed other
nations. Today, we are being tested as to whether this nation or any nation so
conceived and so dedicated can long endure; whether our form of government,
as we know it today, will survive yet another crisis; whether this nation dedicated to freedom and dedicated to almighty God will continue to exist.
Yes, my Brethren, we are being challenged by a group of young radical
revolutionaries, dedicated to the destruction of the establishment and the overthrow of OUT form of government. Let us pray to God to give us the wisdom, the
strength and the courage to meet this challenge.
Can we succeed? I am sure that we can. We can succeed because, as Masons,
we have always had the desire and the determination to uphold our Masonic
principles - the Brotherhood of Man under the Fatherhood of God; because
the foundation stones upon which our nation and our fraternity were erected
are as strong today as the day they were laid. No other nation on the face of
this earth or any other nation in the history of mankind can match the progress
and the accomplishments of these great United States of America. Let's look at
some of these accomplishments:
Let's look at education - Today there are more children attending more
schools, with more facilities, receiving a better education than at any other time
in our history.
I look at these accomplishments and say, "THANK GOD I AM AN
AMERICAN."
Let's look at medicine - The life expectancy of Americans has increased
by 50% in the past 50 years. We no longer fear the diseases of the past. Polio,
typhus, diptheria, smallpox, scarlet fever and T.B. have virtually been eradicated. More Americans enjoy longer and healthier lives than at any other time
in our history.
I look at these accomplishments and say, "THANK GOD I AM AN
AMERICAN."
Let's look at science - In the past few years, American scientists have
enabled us to have a world wide communications system; launched satellites to
forecast weather conditions; perfected nuclear energy for the benefit of all
mankind; put men in orbit in outer space; succes.5fully landed men on the
moon and dramatically returned them safely to earth.
I look at these accomplishments and say, "THANK GOD I AM AN
AMERICAN."
Let's look at civil rights - In the past few years, more has been done in the
field of civil rights than was done in nearly 200 years. While more remains to be
accomplished, today, the minority groups have more advantages, earn more
money and have made more social progress than at any other time in our
history.
I look at these accomplishments and say, "THANK GOD I AM AN
AMERICAN."

231

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Let's look at labor - More Americans support our free enterprise system
by owning more stock in more corporations than ever before. Today, there are
more persons employed, working shorter hours, working under better conditions, earning more money, enjoying more leisure hours with more luxuries
than at any other time in our history.
I look at these accomplishments and say, "THANK GOD I AM AN
AMERICAN ."
The list of our accomplishments and our contributions to world progress is
not only impressive - it is endless. But what about the future? We need not
be afraid of the future for the future will be in our own hands. We shall need
courage, energy and determination but above all, we shall need faith- faith in
ourselves, faith in our communities, faith in our country and faith in Almighty

we do indeed practice the tenets of Freemasonry and so impress the outside
world of the goodness of this Institution and prove to them that we are proud
to be ~asons an~ proud to be Americans. By our acts and by our deeds, shall
we be Judged. It httle matters what we say or what we do if our words and our
actions do not subscribe to the highest of our principles.
Remember the solemn obligations that each of us took at the altars of
Freemasonry and make them a part of our daily practice - so to live and so to
act. Th.ere is no pla~e in ~~n~ for less than our very best. Strive always for
perfection because if we fail m this regard, we have failed not only Masonry we have failed ourselves as well.
Our heritage dictates that we must, on all occasions, uphold the traditions
of our Fraternity. Let our principles become a part of the daily lives of our
youth groups and, in particular, of our DeMolay. These are the persons who
l<>?k .up to us as examples of virtues upon which they will erect their lives. They
will Judge us as examples of excellence or examples of failure. If we can be the
guiding light in some young person's life, we will have fulfilled an important
mission in our Masonic life.
You, who sit out there today, are the representatives not only of your Blue
Lodges but the representatives of Masonry in your local areas. You are the
Grand Lodge of California and, as such, you will be judged by your fellow man.
If t?e principles of Freemasonry have instilled in you a strong will and a strong
desire to be better men and better citizens in your communities, you will have
added another important and vital link in the golden chain of Freemasonry. I
hope that each of you will leave this Annual Communication desirous of rededicating your lives to Freemasonry and to better citizenship.
Let each of us have the unbounded determination and the burning desire
that our forefathers had to make the American dream come true. Let each of us
light a candle of faith and hope and the glow from that flame will truly light the
world. Let each of us unite in a common goal, as Masons and as Americans to
insure that future generations will realize that American dream· not an impossible dream but a dream come true; that same dream our ~erican forefathers had nearly 200 years ago when those 23 Freemasons affixed their
signatures on that piece of parchment, our priceless heritage known as the
Constitution of the United States of America.
Let each one of the 200 million Americans of this great nation climb that
highest mountain and whether it looks out on the windswept plains of Kansas
or the snow capped mountains of Montana; or the sand covered deserts of California or the rock bound shores of Maine; we should climb that highest mountain and- standing erect - at the very summit - shout in a voice for all the
world to hear - "THANK GOD, THANK GOD I AM AN AMERICAN ."

230

God.

We must place our faith in the youth of this great nation and while some
groups of our youth are testing and challenging our form of government, I
believe that those who would divide us will have united us. Someone once said,
"What a pity to waste youth on the young." I disagree. Youth need not be
wasted - it cannot be wasted. It is our greatest natural resource.
Young people must have someone or something to identify with- let that
be Freemasonry and the Master Mason. The youth of our nation today will be
the leaders of tomorrow. Herein lies our challenge. We can take the youth of
our nation and help mold them into better citizens. What better place to begin
our program than with our own youth groups - Jobs Daughters, Rainbow for
Girls and DeMolay; our own youth groups who are dedicating their lives to the
Brotherhood of Man and the Fatherhood of God; young Americans who believe
in and practice the basic philosophies of Freemasonry. In each of the past few
years, we have had representatives of our youth groups appear in this magnificent auditorium and address this Grand Lodge; outstanding examples of
what the overwhelming majority of our youth really stand for and what they
truly represent. America's future is in their hands and since these young adults
are in the majority, then we can be confident that America's future will be safe
and secure. We can be proud that they believe in what we believe in - that
Freemasonry does, indeed, serve the Brotherhood of Man under the Fatherhood
of God; that the foundation of this great and glorious nation was built upon
those Masonic principles which we hold so dear; that these youth groups will
safeguard and protect this country against the groups of radical revolutionaries
and thus insure that this nation, under God, shall not perish from the earth.
The youth of our nation have an awesome responsibility placed in their
hands and they must learn that responsibility is the price of freedom. Let us not
forget that we, too, have a responsibility, a duty and an obligation to support
these fine youth groups by showing them that we have a genuine interest in
their programs and in the goals which they have set for themselves.
The hallmarks of our Fraternity have always been brotherly love, relief
and truth. Let us insure and safeguard these principles not only for ourselves
but for the entire world. Let us display to the public, not by mere rhetoric, that

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
INFORMATION AND RESPONSIBILITY AND
ASSOCIATED SPECIAL COMMITTEES

Begins at the Stated Meeting; Is the Lodge Prepared?; Master - Your
Greatest Challenge. This material is now ready for the press.
Brother Nocas also researched much of our study of the availability and
cost of a proposed leadership program for Lodge Officers. A choice of programs
is now available, but further study of required funding is necessary.
Two work groups should be reported. The Bulletin guidance group,
beaded by Alvin M. Lesser, has completed its research of all available California trestleboards, and is now preparing a set of guidelines for the assistance
of our Lodges.
The Masonic Widows program under the direction of Herbert W. Cahn
has secured the active cooperation of ten volunteers. With this initial group
of Brethren developing the program, there are at this writing 35 participating
Lodges and 86 additional ones . considering adopting part or all of the
program. Most of the initial activity has been in the Bay Area. It is now
spreading through new volunteers to places like Fresno, El Centro, Pacific
Grove, Glendale, Santa Ana and Hollywood. Information kits have been
prepared for those Masters desiring to consider the adoption of the plan.
Some special Workshops have been put together for both Masons and
the general public. On November 10, 1970, Signal Lodge No. 543 hosted
the first of this group with an attendance of some 150 people. Then in Oakland on February 8, 1971 with Oakland Bodies of the Scottish Rite as host,
about 750 attended. The third such meeting was held on May 29, 1971 at
the San Diego Scottish Rite Temple. And in spite of the difficult weekend
over Memorial Day, 3 75 people came out. This gave a good indication of
the value of such open meetings. All of these meetings were moderated by
M. W. Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary. The panelists were all selected
from the locality in which the meetings were held, and they were all wellknown, well-qualified Masons and public figures. A fourth such meeting is
now in preparation for Fresno, probably to be held in November of this year.
Our Works hop program with which the Brethren are more familiar
has concluded its second year under the direction of the Co-Chairmen of this
Committee, Louis I. Goldkind and Arthur Dvorin. This year they have been
able to achieve an expanded coverage for the more remote Lodges. This has
been possible through the assistance of participating, qualified Brethren in
these areas. These men qualified themselves through the use of prearranged
material and briefings by the Co-Chairmen and experienced Committee
Members. It takes a great deal of time and effort to locate such Brethren
throughout our California jurisdiction and to train them. It is to the credit
of these Brethren that they made this effort and almost universally succeeded.
Statistically, we have the following record:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Following is the combined report of the Committee on Masonic Information and Responsibility, and the associated Special Committees: Workshops - North, Workshops - South, Film Projects, inter-Grand Lodge
Research, Lodge Educational Programs, Research Lodge Studies.
Special Committee on Film Projects: Chairman Donald Ingalls. This
Committee has produced a new, purposeful, professional film for California
Masonry entitled, "Journey Into Truth". This will have been previewed
by the Grand Lodge and guests on the evening of October 12, 1971. Prints
will be available through the Grand Lodge Office on application to the Grand
Secretary. They will be supplied at cost. Note should be made that this
film was underwritten by Brother Ingalls as a labor of love.
Special Committee on Inter-Grand Lodge Research: Chairman Ralph A.
Herbold. This committee has official correspondence contact with most
of the other recognized Grand Lodges of the United States. These contacts
are generally with the Grand Secretaries or the Grand Lodge Education
Committees. During the past year we have had occasion, for research purposes, to collect ceremonial material from most of these grand jurisdictions.
Copies of this material have been deposited in the Grand Lodge Library for
use in future studies. We have shared with these correspondents such items
as our Grand Master's Bulletin, our trestleboard articles, the California
Freemason, the Lodge System of Candidate Education, Workshop announcement letters and procedures, data on Constitution Observance, and current
legislation affecting our public schools. There have also been special requests
for certain research projects to which we have responded. Some of these
Grand Lodges have reported on their usage of materials we have been able
to contribute. Likewise some materials requested for the information of some
of our own other committees has been obtained for them.
Special Committee on Lodge Research Studies: Chairman David C. Lee.
This committee is charged by the Grand Lodge to review publications of
the Research Lodges before they may be printed. This year they have reviewed the revision of Volume I for the SCRL. A total of nine new papers
were approved, also one holdover from the prior year were reviewed by this
Committee.
Special Committee on Lodge Educational Programs: Chairman John
R. Nocas. The main apparent accomplishments of this committee group
have been the preparation and distribution for the Lodge Manual, the
"Lodge System of Candidate Education"; the center-fold material for the
Grand Master's Bulletin and the quarterly issues of short paragraph selections for Lodge use in their Bulletins. Non-apparent was the preparation
of Basic and Minimum Lodge Education Programs; Masonic Education

Briefings:
Panelists:
Lodges:
Districts:
Attendance:

9 new ones
88
432
108
2744

233

235

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The program, as organized, could not have been this successful without
the active cooperation of many of our Inspectors, to whom we owe a great
debt. It is essential in any such program that dates to be scheduled be worked
into local planning to avoid conflicts, and this year there was a minimum of
misunderstanding.
Two problems have developed with this program as originally conceived:
1) some of the panel subjects constructed for the assistance of the Inspectors
in carrying out their charge in the California Masonic Code, 161, 3rd (" ....
for instruction in the proper administration of the affairs of the Lodges, and
such other matters as may be for the welfare of the Craft.") have been misunderstood as to purpose, and have required to be withdrawn until a lawful
method of agreed operation can be developed to permit such assistance to
our Lodges; and 2) it is apparent that most of the Brethren who attended
the Workshops are officers of their Lodges. This is good in the sense that a
very high percentage of the members of Grand Lodge is in this group. But
it is not good in that the program has reached just over 1% of the members
of the Fraternity in this jurisdiction, or about one half of our active Masons,
who number only about 6000 I
Question: how can we activate the inactive member? How can we make
them Masons in more than name?
It is the contention of this Committee, derived from its organizational
instructions from this Grand Lodge that any meetings should be voluntary
in nature, and that if they cannot reach the general membership on that
basis they will render no service to the Fraternity. It is our conviction that
a few men cannot impress a regulation or a regime on a voluntary organization of free and intelligent men. Any such attempt loses sight of the causes
of our ancient Brethren banding together as a Brotherhood. We need for
the welfare of Masonry, broad participation and personal concern with the
health of our Lodges and the interest and interests of their component members. We have too few of our Brethren so concerned. It is a fact that those
active in our Grand Lodge organization number only 650 Masons.
It is not the intent of this report to find fault with the necessarily small
number of officers and other influential members of this Grand Lodge. It is
our intent to draw your attention to this fact, and to advance the concept
that it would be desirable to encourage and create wider participation in the
activities of the Craft.
Not to leave an imponderable thought with you, with no consideration
of a solution, we call your attention to the concluding list of panelists who
have participated in the above programs of the Committee on Masonic
Information and Responsibility this past year without official appointment,
and at considerable self-sacrifice and personal expense out of their love for
the Fraternity and its ideals. This is the kind of selfless participation that
made possible the formation of this Grand Lodge some 120 years ago.
Masonic ideals are not obsolete.

Santa Barbara Area
Jim Keith 642, Harold Vosburge 192, Lloyd D. Hanselman 588, Paul T.
MacQuiddy 242, Bill Ewing 242, Sam Harris 242.
Lancaster Area
William M. Huff 791, Carl E. Wheeler 791, Clinton T. Johnson 437, John
C. Sinn 437, Vernon E. Browning 769, Gil Morse 769 Bliss NeHalsing 791
'
'
Richard Ledwidge 783.
Los Angeles Area
William Mason 482, Roland R. Bach 594.
High Desert Area - East Sierra
Mortimer M. Burgren 691, Charles L. Keene, Jr. 691, Maurice L. Hamm 691,
Ernest R. Mangrum 691, John H. R. Lytle 691, Garth Anderson 691 Robert
O.
]. Francis 691, Mitchel H. Hetrick 691, Robert W. Williams 827,
Blackmun 684, C. E. Mitchel 827, Charles E. Ousley 684, James 0. Forr 822,
James E. Kenyon 822, Max E. Olinger 684.
Santa Rosa Area
Gladstone Gillette 181, Roland Atwood 12, Theodore Shea 57, Andrew Edwards 110, Ballard White 139.
San Francisco Area
Richard Hebert 169, Ford Long 570, A. Smith 168, H. Magee 168, Edw.
Webster 168, R. Patterson 226, John Cruickshank 374.
San Jose Area
Frank Freeman 479, Carrol Kinney 399, Don Holmes 399, Ed Brown 362,
Aaron Cakebread 399, Howard Van Arsdale 399.
Monterey Area
Don All bright 217, R. Hopelain 821, Wes. Willoughby 331, Jim Alsop 204,
Vern Upp 204, Charles Hushback 204, Ree Grim 302, Pete Anderson 302,
Archie Betts 204, Andy Cardinalli 680, Wilbur Stevens 803.
East Bay Area
Garnet Ringsmith 603, Bernard Cohen 526, Bill Maranville 218, K. Kyle 166,
Lee Eastin 564, Wayne Davis 218.
Stockton Area
Wm. D. Rose 156, Bernard Faunce 68, Hugh Martin 471, Ed Fawcett 10,
Ma~ion E. Pedlar 258, Wm. E. Zimmerman 58, Chas. Lewis 256, Gerald
Christensen 256, Chas. Chapman 19.
Fresno Area
Arthur Ledbetter 269, G. E. Hiatt 247, Leonard Moller 530, G. C. Holstein
366, C. D. Irby 417, Arch. Addington 366

234

Lynn

Special Committee on Film Projects: Donald Ingalls 542, Homer A. Cundiff

598.
Special Committee on Inter-Grand Lodge Research: Ralph A. Herbold 600,

John L. Cooper, III 641.

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Special Committee on Lodge Educational Programs: John R. Nocas 537,
Jami:s C. Belda ~00, Max R. Rush, Jr. 812, Robert E. Doe 472, Eugene B.
Cuslidge 180, Michael Sellick 499, George H. Himes 602, Samuel E. Dollar
416, John H. Peterson 35.
Special Committee on Research Lodge Studies: David C. Lee 492, Arthur M.
Piculell 641, J. C. Brown 429, John M. Bowersox 79.
Special Committee on Workshops - North: Louis I. Goldkind 120, Roy R.
Crawford 247, Charles C. Warren 57, Donald J. Mork 399, Bennett K. C.
Ing 443, James C. Tario 552, Ellsworth Beckman 256, Clarence E. Baker
330.
Special Committee on Workshops - South: Arthur Dvorin 639, Melville H.
Nahin 520, Milton E. Ammann 600, Wm. J. Williams 685, Wayne C. Bates
334, James W. Mofford 791, Norman E. Hale 574, AI Brotherton No. 242.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM F. POYNTER, Chairman
ARTHUR DvoRIN
STANLEY DIAMOND
Lours I. GoLDKIND
STEPHEN J. DEAN, JR.
JOHN R. N OCAS
c. CLIFFORD GEDDES
RALPH A. HERBOLD
CHARLES B. TURNER
DAVID C. LEE
RICHARD D. LEWIS
DONALD INGALLS
AUBREY E. FRASER
WARREN J. BLOMSETH
W. BLAIR GmBENS
JOHN L. COOPER III
WAYNE BURK
Ross FULLER
NoRBERT P. TESTER
w. H. AHLENSLACER
EMILE R. LAVERSIN
ALVIN M. LESSER
JAY J. BROWN
HERBERT w. CAHN
ROBERT F. IRONS
JEROME B. ROSEN
WILLIAM H. ]AMES
HENRY D. OLIPHANT
RAYMOND A. CENICEROS
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Cemeteries submits the following report of their
activities for the Masonic Year 1970-1971.
As most of you already know, Grand Lodge has, for a number of years,
owned the Masonic Cemetery in the Columbia State Park at Columbia the
Jamestown Masonic Cemetery in Jamestown and the Fiddletown Cem;tery
at Fiddletown.
Columbia: Located in the Columbia State Park near Sonora is in good
condition. The weeds were sprayed by the Future Farmers of America of
Sonora and some other clearing was done. It has been noted that several
headstones in the cemetery are in need of repairs and we are requesting a
sum in our budget this year for that purpose. We do not know the exact

237

amount of restoration work that will be required but we are requesting an
additional $200.00 for that purpose. A Square and Compass wreath was
placed in the Cemetery on Memorial Day and many favorable comments
were made by visitors to the park.
Jamestown: This cemetery, also located near Sonora, was again sprayed
for weeds and some hand cleaning was done. This cemetery is graced with
a number of large beautiful oak trees. We have reported the past two years
that one dead tree had to be removed and a number of dead limbs removed
from others. We were unable to get anyone to do the work but this year
Brother Buck Nelson succeeded in getting the job done at a cost of $100.00
which we consider most reasonable. Unless we have some bad storms this
type of work should not have to be done again for a number of years. It has
also been noted that some work should be done on several of the headstones
and we are requesting $100.00 to start this project. These headstones, like
the ones in the Columbia Cemetery are well over 100 years old and do
require almost constant attention.
Fiddletown: Brother Vincent Lake, because of a back injury and surgery,
was only able to make one trip to this Cemetery and that was in February.
He has in the past been doing much of the clean up work himself. He does
report however, that all is well at the cemetery. Weed spraying was again
done by the Amador County Agriculture Department. We are most fortunate
to have this service and at such a low cost. Amador Disposal Company does
some of the clean up work and leaves a large container there for those who
do work on their family grave sites. Their charge is usually about $20.00.
Peter Lassen Grave: This grave site of Peter Lassen, well known in
Masonic history, is located near Susanville. We do not own this property
but have taken over the responsibility of caring for it. Your chairman made
an inspection of this grave site in late February and found it to be in good
condition. The original marker is well protected by a redwood shake roof
and a chain link fence. Two new redwood picnic tables have been installed.
It is our hope that several more can be put in this next year. This site has
become quite a popular place for travelers who are interested in early California history to stop for a picnic lunch and take pictures of the monuments.
Michigan Bluff: For several years Grand Lodge has been working to
acquire title to the Michigan Bluff Masonic Cemetery in Michigan Bluff,
Placer County. This property consists of approximately one acre and has
been known as the Michigan Bluff Masonic Cemetery for well over 100 years.
There are only a few headstones in this cemetery and all bear the Masonic
Emblem. A few years ago these stones were set in cement pads to prevent
further damage to them and a minimum amount of clearing was done. On
December 4, 1970, Judge Ronald Cameron of Placer County issued the
necessary certificate and a deed to the property dated July 4, 1971 was
delivered to the Grand Secretary. This will be an entirely new project for us
and we are requesting the sum of $250.00 for work to be done during the
1971-72 year.

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We request a budget in the amount of $1 700 00 for th
·
as follows:
'
.
e ensumg year
Columbia Cemetery:
Spraying for weeds and clearing .......... . $175.00
work ...................... .
IRestoration
'd
200.00
nc1 entals ..................... . ..... .
50.00
$ 425.00
Jamestown Cemetery:
Spraying for weeds and clearing .......... . $175.00
Restoration work
Incidental
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100.00
s ....... ................ .... .
.
50.00
F1ddl~to~ Cemetery ..................... . $200.00
Michigan Bluff Cemetery ......... ...... . $250.00
Peter Lassen Grave
$250.00
General Committee E~s~·:::::::::::::: $250.00

$ 325.00
$ 200.00
$ 250.00
$ 250.00
$ 250.00

TOTAL ................................ $1,700.00

Fallbrook: ~ p~oblem has existed for several years between the Masonic
Cemetery AssOCia~on of Fallbrook and Fallbrook Lodge No. 317. It has
become such a maJor problem that Grand Lodge has been asked to intervene

~h~ Grand Master, Most Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner requested you;
c airman to make a trip to Fallbrook and meet with the elective officers of
the Lodge and the president and directors of the cemetery association Thi
was ?on~ o~ Saturday, October 2, 1971 and a report of the results ~f thi:
meetm?' is m the form of a letter addressed to the Grand Secretary Most
Worshipful Edward H. Siems dated October 6 1971 and I ask that 1't b
e
made ayart of this report.* (NOTE: See supple:nent to report.)
A smcere thank you to the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and his
o~ce staff and all others who have been so helpful to this committee d ·
this past year.
urmg
Respectfully submitted,
BAsn R. GILLETT, Chairman
VINCENT V. LAKE
Bucx R. NELSON

J. WnBUR COMBES
JoHN R. WISE

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)
SUPPLEMENT TO REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES*
Edward H. Siems
Oct. 6, 1971
% Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
1111 California St.,
San Francisco, Calif. 94108
Dear Brother Siems:
This is my report of a meeting with the elective officers of Fallbrook

239

Lodge No. 317 and the president and directors of the Mai<>nic Cemetery
~ciation of Fallbrook.

Meeting held in the offices of Oceanside Savings and Loan Association in
Fallbrook and started about 10:15 A.M. and adjourned at approximately
2:30 P.M. on Saturday, October 2nd, 1971.
Fallbrook Lodge was represented by Jack R. Levitt, Attorney at Law,
1906 U. S. Bank Building, San Diego, Calif. 92101, phone (714) 232-6211.
Brother Levitt is a member of San Diego Lodge No. 35.
Mr. Donald Anthony, president of the Masonic Cemetery Association of
Fallbrook, and he claims others that he would not name, was represented by
Arlie W. Bergman, Attorney at Law of 309 S. Maple Street, Escondido,
Calif., phone (714) 745-1641. Brother Bergman is a member of Consuelo
Lodge No. 325 of Escondido.
Mr. Anthony has apparently been circulating a report that the Grand
Lodge and Fallbrook Lodge now want to gain control of the Cemetery and its
bank accounts so that they could do with them as they see fit.
My opening remarks were to the effect that Grand Lodge wanted no part
of their cemetery or the accumulated funds. That I was in Fallbrook to
attempt to bring all sides together and see that Fallbrook Lodge did not
loose control of their property.
Much discussion was then centered on who had title to the land, how
much money was on hand and who were the stockholders.
The Master of the Lodge reported that a title search was being made
and that as of Friday night, October 1st, everything appeared to be free
and clear.
I talked with William Alford, Master of Fallbrook Lodge, Tuesday night,
October 5th, on the phone and he told me that the title search was made by
First American Title Company of San Diego and that everything was free
and clear and that title was vested in the name of Masonic Cemetery Association of Fallbrook. During the same conversation Mr. Alford stated that
the shares of stock that were to be delivered to him for safekeeping by
2 :30 Tuesday afternoon had not been delivered. He told me at the same
time that Mr. Anthony made the remark to the man sitting next to him at
our meeting that, "I will turn over nothing to Fallbrook Lodge or to the
Grand Lodge."
Mr. Anthony claims to own one share of stock because he purchased
200 square feet of the cemetery property. It is his claim that some judge told
him to buy the plots so that he could be on the board. He failed to give the
name of the judge. It was later brought out that at one time 1997 shares
were supposedly held in trust for the lodge by a brother now in bad graces
with the lodge. His name is Vick Westfalls and is now supposed to be in
Australia. These shares were later transferred to James Robinson, a present
member of the board. Mr. Robinson claims the shares were put in his name
a number of years ago and that he paid nothing for them. He admits that
he is supposed to be holding them in trust.

240

241

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The association has two reserve accounts in the Oceanside Federal Savings
and Loan of Fallbrook in the amounts of $20,227.94 and $12,155.27 as of
June 1, 1971. Two names appear on these accounts, Donald Anthony and
Dave Glick. They also have in the Bank of America of Fallbrook what they
call the maintenance account of a little over $3000.00. Two names are on this
account, Donald Anthony and Zane McAnear. McAnear is a treasurer of the
Association.
Mr. McAnear claims his name was on the two reserve accounts when they
were transferred to Fallbrook. He does not know how nor when his name
was taken off and the name of Dave Glick added. There appears to be very
little, if any, communication between Mr. Anthony and Mr. McAnear.
It was brought out that regular meetings of the Association are very
seldom called or held and when they did have meetings, proper minutes were
not kept. Bills to be paid were in a number of instances just handed to the
treasurer on a plain piece of paper with instructions to issue a check for the
amount and give it to Mr. Anthony. I saw a couple of these bills and they
did not explain in detail what they were for.
Very poor records are kept and it is very doubtful that they have a
proper set of books.
There is an apparent attempt by a small group to take over the cemetery
and its assets and run it exactly as they see fit with no regard what-so-ever
for the lodge.
Mr. Anthony claims there are approximately 50 to 300 shareholders but
that stock certificates have not been issued. He claims to have the book of
stock certificates with some stubs and certificates in it. He has not produced
the book and apparently is unwilling to do so. He would name no other
stock.holders other than himself and James Robinson. He said the figures of
50 to 300 shares was an estimate.
Lots in the cemetery are 5 feet by 10 feet and are sold for $200.00 each.
Half of the money received is put in the reserve or perpetual care fund,
the other half goes to the maintenance fund. According to the original by-laws,
any person buying 4 lots (200 square feet) is entitled to one share of stock
and one vote. He also claims that single lot owners can pool their interests
in multiples of four and have a vote but not a share of stock.
It was pointed out by several members of the lodge that the taxes on the
cemetery property were paid out of lodge funds for many years. More
recently these taxes have been pa.id out of cemetery funds.
A number of years ago, the cemetery had $4000.00 in the bank. Fallbrook
Lodge borrowed $3000.00 to help finance their temple. The lodge did not give
the cemetery association a note for the amount borrowed. About 15 years later
the money was repaid but with no interest. Mr. Anthony was quite disturbed
that the interest had been lost over the years. One member present pointed
out that the money was actually borrowed by the Fallbrook Masonic Temple
Association and not the lodge itself. It was also mentioned that Mr. Anthony
was on the temple board during a part of this time and that he made no

attempt to see that the money was repaid to the cemetery and also made no
mention of interest.
The Articles of Incorporation of the Masonic Cemetery Association of
Fallbrook expired on September 13, 1971. The attorney, Mr. Levitt, stated
that the association was no longer in existence and that new articles would
have to be filed and a new set of by-laws drawn up.
It is my understanding that the attorneys for both sides plan to get
together and see if they can come up with some solutions that will be satisfactory for all concerned. Mr. Levitt has agreed to keep me posted. The
attorney for Mr. Anthony, Arlie Bergman, appears to be a very reasonable
and understanding man.
About two o'clock in the afternoon it appeared that we were getting
nowhere and that Mr. Anthony was unwilling to cooperate in any way, so I
issued the following directives:
To the Master of the Lodge, William G. Alford:
1. That he instruct the attorney to draft a new set of Articles of Incorporation and file them with the Secretary of State.
2. That he appoint at the next stated meeting of Fallbrook Lodge on
October 7, 1971, a committee to draft a new set of by-laws that would
comply with the Grand Lodge rules as set forth in the Masonic Code,
and that they be acted ui>on as rapidly as possible.
To Donald Anthony (President of the Cemetery Board)
1. It is ordered that all shares of Masonic Cemetery of Fallbrook be
given to the Master of Fallbrook Lodge No. 317 within 72 hours,
and that such shares be placed in a safe deposit box for safe keeping.
2. The names of all stockholders of the Masonic Cemetery Association
of Fallbrook and the number of shares owned by each be sent to me
within 10 days of the above date.
3. An audit of the books of the Masonic Cemetery Association of Fallbrook be made and sent to me within 10 days of the above date.
4. A complete financial statement of the Masonic Cemetery Association
of Fallbrook be sent to me and to the Grand Lodge Committee on
Lodge Finance within 10 days of the above date.
Dated October 2, 1971 at 2:20 P.M., Fallbrook, California, and
signed by Basil R. Gillett, Chairman, Grand Lodge Committee on .
Cemeteries and by Milo A. Ensminger, Inspector of District No. 636.
In a letter dated May 7, 1971 from Mr. Donald Anthony to the Master
of Fallbrook Lodge he stated, "Neither Grand Lodge nor Fallbrook Lodge
has any jurisdiction in our cemetery business."
Mr. Anthony admits the cemetery records are incomplete and have been
very poorly kept for a number of years.

242

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At the present time 30 acres of the land is used as a cemetery and the
other 60 acres is planted to avacados and is leased out.
I have a tape recording of everything that was said at the meeting.
I am very much of the impression that a very strong letter will have to
be sent to Mr. Anthony by the Grand Master before he will be willing to
cooperate in any way.
I hope this will give you some idea of what went on at the meeting.
Sincerely and Fraternally,
BASIL R. GILLETT, Chairman
Grand Lodge Cemeteries Committee

attempt to be repitious in this report on that matter. Suffice to say that while
the net result of their immediate action may be frustrating to our immediate
goal of expanded and adequate facilities, we are confident that the time will
soon be offered to us when specific action will result in this Commission's
ability to serve our Fraternity and our wider community in a more effective
and meaningful way as the result of more comodius and efficient facilities.
Your library and museum Commission will continue to lift before us all the
accomplishment of this effort as our greatest challenge!
We are indeed proud of our volunteer staff, and grateful for their continued devoted and faithful service. Our facility is open Monday through Friday
between the hours of 10:00 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. for the convenience of
our members and visitors. During these hours our assistants not only
guide visitors and issue books on loan, but they also tend to the technical
work of cataloguing books and artifacts, as well as make repairs to books and
items in our collection as required. The present staff consists of William H.
Scott, Assistant Librarian, William McMaster, Adolph Kiersch, George Beard,
Henry Cardoza, Paul Harasin, Edward Stanley, Morris Licin, Evan A. Fair
and Stanley Butera, all volunteers serving us without stint of time or
remuneration other than our grateful thanks for labor well done.
Our 1971-72 Budget request of $2,400.00 is the same as this year, in view
of the present state of uncertainty with regard to direction from Grand Lodge
in terms of future development and expansion. In keeping with the request of
the Finance Committee this information has already been transmitted to them
for inclusion in the Budget.
In conclusion we desire to express our sincere thanks to our Grand Master
for affording us the opportunity to serve the Grand Lodge in this capacity, as
well as to express our appreciation for his leadership and support. We would
certainly be remiss if we did not likewise make mention of the cooperation
and abiding interest and support of our Grand Secretary, as well as the assistance and encouragement which we have received at his hands and those of
his staff and of the Temple staff. To all of you, Masters, Wardens, and others
who have in any way helped to make our facilities more useful or more widely
known our sincere thanks; for you have not only assisted this commission,
but be~ond that you have enhanced and served Masonry in California and
Hawaii.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT D. LINTER, Chairman

REPORT OF BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
In response to our appointment by Grand Master Herbert A. Huebner,
your commission has endeavored, with his assistance and support, and with
the full cooperation of the Grand Secretary and his staff, to carry out the
Grand Master's expressed wishes with regard to the administration of your
Library and Museum.
With regard to additions to our ever-expanding library, we beg leave to
report that over 390 volumes were donated by members of Grand Lodge,
members of constituent lodges, and the families of deceased brethren, as well
as by non-Masons. Eighteen articles were donated to our museum by the same
source, and these aquisitions likewise take their place alongside a growing collection of Masonic memorabilia. In addition your commission has purchased
38 volumes of Masonic significance from our modest budget allotment.
In-so-far as use of facilities is concerned, we are pleased to report that
during the year 160 books were loaned through our mailing service or to members who visited our library to do research or to borrow volumes. Our register
indicates that 1,206 visitors acquainted themselves with our facilities, and it is
safe to say that many times that number were made aware of our existence
as a result of having been in the building or as a result of some other attraction.
During the year we were able to install 2 additional sets of book shelves
to relieve some pressure on our crowded shelves, and make more orderly use
of our ever decreasing wall space. Your library and museum are quite literally
coming to the point in time when we will in fact be "Bursting our seams". In
this regard, and in response to a recommendation of Grand Master Chester R.
MacPhee in his message in 1970, and further in response to the action of
Grand Lodge as recorded on page 54 of the 1970 Proceedings, the Chairman
of your commission has worked closely with the Trustees of the Masonic
Memorial Temple, as well as joined them in their meetings when matters
concerning the possible future development of our library and museum were
discussed and acted upon. The Trustees of our Temple will make an adequate
report of this phase of our joint efforts in their report, therefore we will not

RUSSEL G. WORTH

LEWIS H. JOHNSON

C. JoHN BELLMAN, JR.

HAIG D. SoGHOMONIAN
A. T. KIERSCH

SAM

s. SATO

STEPHENSON R. BIGGART
HAROLD E. KILIAN

JOHN P. RUSSELL
GEORGE KoREGELOS

LANNING F. SPIETH
LEWIS B. MEEK

WILLIAM KLUDJAN
STANLEY A. BUTERA

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

243

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
YOUTH ACTIVITIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F & A. M. of California:

The members of the Youth Activities Committee would like to begin this
report by expressing our gratitude to the Most Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner, Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii, for his appointments
of the members to this committee. These appointments have given each of
us a first hand opportunity to continue our work and association with future
Masons and leaders of the country.
We wish also to extend our thank yous to Worshipful Brothers John L.
Wixson and Melvin A. Pixley, Executive Officers of the Northern and Southern Jurisdictions of California of the International Order of DeMolay, to
Miss Barbara Campbell, Supreme Deputy of the International Order of
Rainbow for Girls in California, and to Mrs. Dorothy Halstead, Grand
Guardian of the International Order of Job's Daughters in California and to
their assistants for the cooperation and courtesy extended to the members of
this Committee during this past year.
We also extend our thank yous to the Fresno Masonic Temple Association; The Sunset Mizpah Masonic Temple in Los Angeles, and the Safeway Stores Facility in Oakland for providing meeting places during the
year at no expense to this Grand Lodge.
MEETINGS

Your Youth Activities Committee held four (4) meetings during the
past year. Some of the items under discussion were a continuance of last years
committee efforts and some items will obviously be recommended for continued action by next year's Youth Activities committee.
As an expedient and an economy measure, the committee was divided
into two sub-committees, one for the northern half of the state under Vice
Chairman Robert J. Matheison and one for the southern half under Vice
Chairman Arnold G. Brocksen, Sr. Meetings were held by their respective
sub-committees in their areas culminating in a final joint meeting at Fresno.
It was again decided to present a Youth Activities display in the exhibit
hall for this annual communication. This display is to be prepared by the
Youth Groups of the San Francisco Bay area. All present at this annual
communication are urged to examine this exhibit and view the activities of
the Youth Groups.
In addition to the four Committee Meetings, this Committee was represented at the Grand Assembly of Rainbow for Girls at Fresno on April 4th
through April 7th, with the invitation of Miss Barbara Campbell, Supreme
Deputy. Members of the Committee were also present at the Grand Bethel,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

245

International Order of Job's Daughters in California, in Long Beach on
June 25th and 26th. Members of this Committee were also present at both
the Northern and Southern California Jurisdictional Conventions of DeMolay
held at Redding in November 1970 and Palm Springs in August 1971.
Your Youth Activities Committee extends a hearty thank you to Newcomb Condee, Editor in Chief of the California Free Mason for the publication of the very informative information on Youth Orders. It is hoped
by this Committee that a reprint of those pages be prepared for presentation
to each newly raised Master Mason.
In order to establish a closer relationship between the Master Mason
and the Youth of Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls and DeMolays, this
Committee recommends to the Masters of the several constituent Lodges
the following: When the Lodge has a Stated Meeting dinner or similar function, that an invitation be extended to the Master Councilor, to the Honored
Queen and to the Worthy Advisor. This Committee suggests that they
be offered a place of honor at the head table and given the proper introduction. Why not ask them to say a few words?
This Committee further recommends that the Master of each Lodge
make space available in his Trestle Board for news of the DeMolay Chapter,
Rainbow Assembly or the Job's Daughters Bethel. He should, in his message
to the members of his Lodge, encourage the members to visit as many of
the Youth functions as possible.
In fact, this Committee now requests your attendance, you the members
of this Grand Lodge, to attend as many of these Youth Meetings as possible.
You are the leaders of Masonry in this Jurisdiction and it is up to you to
set the example. Let all of us make a real effort. Let all of us lead the way
to our Rainbow Assembly meeting, our Job's Daughters Bethel meeting and
DeMolay Chapter meeting. See you there!
The members of this Committee wish to thank those Building or Temple
Associations for heeding our recommendation to adjust the rental rates for
the Youth Groups. However, there is still need for improvement in a few
isolated instances. To you few, please reconsider.
BUDGET

A request for a budget of $3,557.00 for the operation of this Committee
during the next year has been submitted. A detailed account of same has
been filed with the Grand Lodge Finance Committee. This budget includes
funds for the reprint of the pamphlets, A Letter to a Rainbow Girl, What
Every DeMolay Should Know About Freemasonry, and What Every Job's
Daughter Should Know About Freemasonry.
In closing we again extend to our Grand Master our sincere appreciation
for the opportunity to serve Grand Lodge and we also hope that our efforts

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

will be of benefit to the Masonic Youth. We urge that each Master Mason
make an individual effort to visit one of the Youth Organizations.

An organizational meeting of the Board wash~? .Apri! 1.9' 1?7~ t? ~c­
quaint the members of the Board with DeMolay activities withm this 1unsd1ction and to determine how best to accomplish the Grand Master's goals for
the Board.
The members of the Board were provided with organizational charts, International Supreme Council rules, and by-laws for DeMolay Chapters together with other data which provided information necessary to perform the
assigned task.
At the recommendation of the Board, on June 9, 1971, the Grand Master
wrote to the Executive Officers of the several DeMolay Jurisdictions to solicit their cooperation with the Board.
Such cooperation was immediately forthcoming an~. this Boar? commends
these Executive Officers, namely: Kenneth Look, ~aw~u; John ~IX?n, Nor~­
ern California; and Melvin Pixley, Southern Califorma; for their mterest m
.
.
this new Board as well as for their dedication to De~olay.
August 16, 1971 a meeting of the Board was held m Southe~n ~ahforma.
Mel Pixley, Executive Officer of DeMolay for that area, ~as mv1ted to be
present. A round table discussion was held 3:°d. Br~th~r .P1~ler gave a most
.
comprehensive report concerning DeMolay withm h1~ 1unsd1cbon.
A similar meeting was held in Northern Calforma August 30, 1971 ~th
John Wixon, Executive Officer for D.eMo~ay in that ar~, ~r~e~t. .E~tensive
discussion concerning DeMolay activities m Brother Wixon s 1unsd1ction was

Respectfully submitted,
LLOYD A. BUDWIG, Chairman
ARNOLD G. BROCKSEN, SR.
FAY E. BATES
ROBERT J. MATHEISON
FRANK LARSEN
DouGLAS N. CAIRNS
JoE HAMMOND
EDWIN F. COLLINS
LEONARD H. MOLLER
WILLIAM G. SKILLING
THOMAS w. HANSEN
Roy T. TuouTMAN, JR.
DoN E. WoRSHAM
JOHN H. HARDY
ROBERT A. MILLER
WILLIAM D. SPRUANCE
ROBERT L. SPINNEY
CLARENCE G. ROSENSTOCK
KARL NEUMANN
JoHN A. MoRD, JR.
WILLIAM P. RAMs
ROBERT J. LEHMAN
EDWARD H. MILLIS
CHARLES w. CONLEY
FRANCIS ATKINS
JOSEPH p. ZIMMERMAN
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF DEMOLAY LIAISON BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Early this year, our Grand Master expressed his desire to create a
DeMolay Liaison Board whose duties would be to familiarize themselves with
the statutes and organization of the Supreme International Council of the
Order of DeMolay, acquire a general knowledge of the chapter structure, communicate with the Officers of the Supreme Council and with the Executive
Officers in charge of the DeMolay Jurisdictions in California and Hawaii, consult and advise with them on appointments and other subjects as may be requested, and affirmatively assure themselves that the affairs of DeMolay are
being conducted by the Masons responsible for same in accordance with
proper practices, both administrative and in accounting procedures.
It was the intent of the Grand Master that the DeMolay Liaison Board be
composed of the Senior Grand Warden, the Junior Grand Warden, and the
Grand Secretary, together with a Past Master from each of the DeMolay
Jurisdictions within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California.
Accordingly, on February 22, 1971, the Most Worshipful Herbert A.
Huebner formally created such a board and appointed the following to serve
thereon:
William H. Price ............... Senior Grand Warden
Raymond A. Ebbage ............ Junior Grand Warden
Edward H. Siems .................... Grand Secretary
Richard L. Braden ...................... Past Master
Donald H. McDonald ................... Past Master
Mon Tai Luke .......................... Past Master

~~

247

.

From discussion, personal observation and information supplied by the executive officers, the DeMolay Liaison Board observes several areas of concern.
The search for dedicated adult leaders at all levels of DeMolay seems to
be of prime importance.
Fraternal (and even paternal) regard and concern for our Masonic Youth,
particularly for the young men of DeMolay, should be inherent in every
Master Mason. Still in all, the Executive Officers report an atmosphere of
.
apathy among far too many of the Masons of this juri~ction.
At the recommendation of this Board and recogmzmg the need for mvolvement of Lodges in DeMolay activities, our Grand Master directed the
Masters of the several lodges in California and Hawaii to appoint at least
one member of your Lodge to act as a Liaison between your Lodge and the
nearest DeMolay Chapter in your area. Your appointee should be ~ man ~ho
can communicate well with young people and relate to them, and, if possible,
should be a former member of DeMolay. He, or they, should attend at least
one meeting of the Chapter each month, as well as Advisory Cou?~l. meetings,
if invited by the Council. He, or they, should report the a~tiv1bes. of the
Chapter to his Lodge at each stated meeting, thereby ge?erating a~ mterest
among our brethren. Our future in Masonry, as well as m the Nation, may
well lie in these young men.
.
The preceding directive has been acclaimed ~y tJ;te Execut1~e Officers. 1:'he
Grand Master reported earlier at this Commumcation regarding the ovation

249

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

he received at the Southern California DeMolay Conclave at which he read
and commented on his directive.
Much work remains to be done by this Board. Although DeMolay in California and Hawaii generally is progressing well, your Board would like to see
more coordination of effort among the three DeMolay jurisdictions. Your
Board has concerned itself with the accountability of DeMolay funds and
areas of possible problems regarding taxation. Certainly future Boards will
have suggestions for our Grand Master and the Internationa l Superme Council of DeMolay.
We who have served on this initial Board are grateful to our Grand
Master for having granted us an opportunity to serve our young men. We
sincerely urge that the Grand Master be commended for his avid interest in
DeMolay.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. PRICE, Chairman
EDWARD H. SIEMS
RAYMOND A. EBBAGE
DoNALD H . McDoNALD
RICHARD L. BRADEN
MON TAI LUKE

ful Eugene S. Hopp, Past Master of King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260,
will present the part of the report which has been prepared by those opposing
Jll()dification. There is to be no debate or further exchange of views at this
time.
We ask that you give your careful attention to both portions of the report
by the Special Committee on Physical Qualifications.

248

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS - IN-DEPTH STUDY
(At the request of the Grand Master, the Chairman of the Policy and General
Purpose C Dmmittee made the following introductory remarks:)
I have been asked by the Grand Master to introduce the report of the
Special Committee on Physical Qualifications chaired by Most Worshipful
Eugene S. Hopp, Past Grand Master.
The Committee has met, discussed the matter at length, and has prepared an excellent report. There are members of this committee who favor
modification of our law respecting the physical qualifications of a candidate
for the degrees of Masonry in this jurisdiction. There are members of the
committee who do not. Actually, the committee was evenly divided (6 to 6)
on the issue.
The result is that this highly important report consists of two reports one by the proponents of change, and the other by those opposed. Both reports are carefully written and very well done.
My purpose in appearing before you to introduce the presentation of the
report of a special committee is because the Grand Master intends to refer
the reports to the Committee on Policy and General Purpose, which committee will propose a plan of usage of this report which we believe will be of
important and far-reaching benefit for the Lodges of this jurisdiction.
Brother Howard Noble, Past Master of Seaside Lodge No. 504, will present the first part of the report, and this is the part prepared by those on the
committee who favor modification. Following his presentation Most Worship-

REPORTS TO THE LODGES BY MEMBERS OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
INCLUDING
MINUTES OF MEETING - MAY 1, 19 71
and
REPORT OF COMMITTEE MEMBERS FAVORING CHANGE
and
REPORT OF COMMITTEE MEMBERS AGAINST CHANGE
Minutes of the meeting of the special Committee on Physical Qualificatio n.
Held at Clift Hotel, San Francisco, 10: 15 A.M., Saturday, May 1, 1971.

Committeemen:
P.G.M. EuGENE S. HoPP, Chairman
P.G.L. Elbert W. Davis
Gurley B. Bates
George Q. Evans
Howard K. Noble
George A. Jurgens
John M. Conover
George P. Calderwood
Jack T. Estoll
Roy G. Scannel
Charles T. Schell
Louis B. Smith
All present except Bros. Schell and Scannel.
The meeting called to order by the chairman, at 1O:15 A.M.
The chairman read the letter of appointment by Grand Master Huebner,
dated February 17, 1971, to the committee.
The Chairman then read C.M.C. secs. 511 and 512 re. the current physical
qualifications.
Brother Davis read the report and recommendation of the Policy &
Purposes Committee which was adopted at the annual Communication of
Grand Lodge, October, 1970.
The chairman asked if anyone had any questions as to the interpcetation
of the directives or the points we were charged to discuss. No questions.

251

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Chairman then asked each one to speak freely and to give his general
impressions on the subject. During the discussions which followed, the
Chairman expresed his belief that we were charged to study and report on all
physical requirements, including women, eunuchs and those under 21 years
of age.
Such subjects as the C.M.C. secs. 511 and 512 pertaining to the word
"substantially" as well as the possible deviation from the "Ancient Landmarks" were discussed at length.

Several references were made respecting what should be considered "substantial" compliance to the ritual, and also, as to whether the Ancient Laws
should be applicable to the ritual and whether they should be held binding
upon our present procedures as far as physical qualifications are concerned.
The~e was not sufficient time to take into consideration at length, any
!8.lternative methods of our present procedures of conferring the degrees
wh~reby it might be possible for physically-handicapped persons, who might
deSire to apply for the degrees of Masonry, to do so, and if elected, to be
able to have the degrees conferred upon them without embarrassment to themselves or to the Lodge.
Realizing the importance of a study of this phase of the question 1 we have
directed our main efforts to the research of a method which could be practical
and acceptable.
In the letter of the appointment of this committee, the Most Worshipful
Grand Master Herbert A. Huebner requested the c.ommittee to make a
thorough study of the subject and to submit a report, containing its observations, conclusions, and recommendations, and that the report should be full
and fair. This would in our opinion justify a thorough study of all phases of
the subject.
Prior to meeting, various materials were submitted to the Committee for
study. Much information, not generally known to the average Mason, was
contained in the materials distributed. Among this material, there was one
paper called the "Doctrine of the Perfect Youth," printed by the Masonic
Service Association, 700 Tenth Street N.W., Washington 1, D.C. The first
edition was issued December, 193 7 and a revised edition was issued September 22, 1950. This publication contained a summary of the procedures of
handling physically-handicapped candidates of the 49 Grand Jurisdictions in
the United States, including the District of Columbia.
It was noted in this summary that, at that time, there were 42 Grand
Jurisdictions that did accept physically-handicapped persons using various
procedures for accepting them.
Seven of the 49, including California still adhered to the strict rule of the
"Perfect Youth".
Of the 42 that were accepting applicants, 30 of them left the decision to
the discretion of the Lodge, 11 were left up to the Grand Masters, and 2 were
left up to the Master of the Lodge to decide.
It was apparent that there were some irregularities in some of these procedures, from the standpoint of the conferring of the degrees, and there was
some indication that they were straying from the ritual, especially as we
know it in California where we are accustomed to the highest quality ritual
available anywhere, and are desirous of keeping it that way.
There was one plan, however, adopted by the Grand Lodge of Indiana
which appears to have solved the problem and with certain variations we feel
it could be very applicable to our situation here in California.

250

Toward the conclusion of the meeting at 4 P.M., set by the Chairman, the
Committee was "polled" as to:
1. Those in favor of change in the physical requirements necessitating
change in the ritual.
Results: 5 for; 5 against
2. Removal of all physical qualifications (including women, eunuchs
and those under age 21 )
Results: None for
3. Removal of physical qualifications (excepting women, eunuchs and
those under age 21 ) if change is to take place.
Results: 6 for; 4 abstained
4. If physical qualifications removed those favoring Special Lodge
or Lodges to confer or exemplify the degrees on the physically
handicapped.
Results: 6 for; 4 abstained
The Chairman asked about the need for further meetings of this Committee before the Grand Lodge Annual Communication. It was suggested by
Br. Evans that a copy of this Committee's Report be circulated to the members of the Committee and, after perusal, if found necessary, an additional
meeting could be called.
Chairman Hopp requested Br. Howard Noble and Br. George Calderwood,
to submit a summary of the report for those members voting for change. He
also invited all other members voting for change to write Br. Noble their
views. All of these would be incorporated in the final report to be circulated
to all members of the Committee.
The meeting adjourned at 4: 15 P.M. (approx.)
George P. Calderwood, Acting Secty.
Eugene S. Hopp, Chairman

(A) POSITION - FAVORING CHANGE
A copy of the minutes of the meeting held on the date and place noted
above are hereby attached and made a part of this report.
As indicated in the minutes, most of the alloted time for the meeting was
consumed by disct1$ions, regarding physical qualifications, including women,
eunuchs, and eighteen-year-olds.

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In 1961 - the Grand Lodge of Indiana plWOO legislation to create an
Occasional Lodge to operate Under Dispensation, for the sole purpose of
conferring the degrees of Masonry upon Candidates of other Lodges who were
under physical handicaps, and whereby they were unable to literally conform
to the ritual.
Prior to this time Indiana had been accepting physically-handicapped
candidates and each individual Lodge was conferring the degrees upon them,
thus more or less adapting their own ritual to the case at hand. This was not
proving satisfactory to those who wanted the ritual preserved, so they set out
to find a better way to accomplish the purpose without returning to the "Perfect Youth" theory.
This was accomplished in the establishmen t of an Occasional Lodge Under
Dispensation named Bartimaeus Lodge in reference to blind Bartimaeus
receiving his sight and being made whole as stated in the New Testament.
Ref: St. Mark 10:46 through 10:52.
Although the name Bartimaeus may seem to some to have a significance
to the situation, it is not n~ily so and any applicable name would be
appropriate. Such as, Realization Lodge, Ritualistic Lodge or Occasional
Lodge. For identification purposes we shall use the name Occasional Lodge
Under Dispensation.
Although the mechanics of such a Lodge cannot be fully described in this
report we can consider most of the basic ideas.
The idea was conceived by a group of men who wanted to see the ritual
preserved, yet who wanted to allow the degrees of Masonry to be conferred
upon those who were physically handicapped, and, who were otherwise worthy
and well qualified.
To do this, they suggested the formation of a Lodge that would consist
only of "Blue Ribbon" ritualists, who would meet occasionally solely for the
purpose of conferring the degrees of Masonry upon physically-handicapped
candidates of other Lodges. Those receiving the degrees were not made members of the Occasional Lodge, but were members of the Lodge which they
petitioned.
It must .be remem~ered that this Occasional Lodge was not a Lodge to
accept physically-handicapped persons. Its only function was to confer the
degrees upon physically-handicapped candidates of other Lodges. In other
words it performs a special function, to guarantee that the degrees are conferred upon physically-handicapped candidates in a manner distinguished for
'
its perfection.
Without further details as to the workings of this arrangement which we
consider hig~y commendable, we wish to summarize by offering the following
recommendations.
It is thought by those making this summary that legislation should be
introduced to establish the creation of a Special Lodge in the State of California and Hawaii, for the sole purpose of conferring the degrees of Masonry

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

253

upon candidates of Constituent Lodges who are under physical handicaps
whereby they are unable to conform to the present ritual.
The creation of such a Lodge, would by no means represent a change in
policy with respect to petitioners who are physically handicapped (except as
it shall be later stated). This would allow all present safeguards to be retained for the ritual, and in addition, the Grand Lecturer and his staff would
have the sole control over the manner in which the degrees would be conferred.
Our recommendation would be to establish three such Lodges all of the
same name, and in the same manner, one in the North, one in the South and
one in Hawaii for the convenience of the officers and candidates.
As heretofore mentioned, these Special Lodges would operate under Dispensation, having no charter, not owning property, nor having a vote in Grand
Lodge, and having no other powers except the sole purpose of conferring the
degrees of Masonry upon physically-handicapped candidates of constituent
Lodges in this Jurisdiction, all of which would be under direction of the
Grand Lecturer.
It is recommended that the Grand Lecturer should appoint the officers of
the respective Special Lodges each year and before such officer may be installed he must qualify himself before the Grand Lecturer or his appointee.
The above recommendations would, we feel, qualify for the proper conferring of the degrees and would lend to the control and dignity appropriate
to the occasion.
In order to make this possible we would recommend certain changes in
C.
to M. C. To wit:
1. That the physical qualifications of a person shall be no bar for application if he is otherwise worthy and well qualified. Ever remembering
that the physical sufficiency of the apr>licant shall be left to the sound
discretion of the Lodge, and if elected, the degrees must be conferred
by qualified ritualists.
2. Sec. 511, is proposed to be amended to read:
An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must be a man;
a believer in God and a future existence; of moral conduct; capable
of reading and writing; of supporting himself and family; having no
maim or defect in his mind or body that may render him incapable of
lear:ning the art, and physically able to conform sabstantially to what
the several degrees respectively require of him, provided however that
if an applicant who is unable to comply with the physical requirements
by virtue of a physical disability or disabilites, the application may
be received and voted upon by the Lodge in accordance with Sec. 512
(as proposed for amendment) .
3. Sec. 512 Proposed to amend:
Before an applicant, who has a physical handicap, may apply for the
degrees, it will be necessary for him to appear before a special committee of not less than 5, appointed by the Master of the Lodge to

254

255

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

which he wishes to make the application. This committee shall consist
of not less than two of the principal officers of the Lodge, and other
members whom the Master may appoint. The committee shall request
that the proposed applicant appear before them at the lodge hall in
a private room suitable for the occasion and with dignity, to view the
extent of the proposed applicant's disability and determine whether or
not the proposed applicant could substantially conform to the ritual.
Upon conclusion of the interview if in the opinion of the committee,
that the proposed applicant could not substantially conform to the
ritual it would be their duty to inform him that he could not qualify
and therefore, to relieve him of the possible embarrassment of being
rejected, would recommend that he not make an application to the
lodge.
If it was the opinion of the committee that the proposed applicant
could substantially qualify, they would advise him that if it was his
decision to proceed with an application that this preliminary investigation would in no way be construed as a guarantee that he would be
elected to receive the degrees.
If the proposed candidate be elected, the degrees must be conferred
upon him according to Sec. 512-1 (to be established)
4. 512-1 To establish:
Conferring of degrees upon physically handicapped applicants.
The Lodge must request the Grand Lodge to have the degrees conferred upon the candidate and get permission thereof. The conferring
of the degrees upon a physically-handicapped candidate shall only be
done by a Specially Dispensated Lodge created by the Grand Lodge
for the specific purpose of conferring the degrees e>f Masonry upon
physically-handicapped candidates without undue deviation from the
ritual, by Brethren trained and proficient in their work, in surroundings and under. ci~cumstances which will contribute to the solemnity,
decorum, and d1gruty of the occasion.
5. 512-2 To be ~tablished:
Change of ritual.
There shall be no deviation or change in the ritual in any respect
except in those instances where the candidate cannot literally conform
to the ritual. At this point, another, who may be qualified may be
directed by the Master to conform as a proxy for the candidate. None
of ~e ritual may be omitted. It must be given in its entirety. The
candidate shall be allowed to wear or use any aid or aids that he
would normally use in the daily pursuit of his livelihood or social
activities, and for the purpose of receiving the degrees such aid will
be considered a part of the person, of which he cann~t be divested.
Therefore, it shall be said where applicable "Except that which is
considered a part of your person" and "Ex~t that which was considered a part of your person."

These are the changes we recommend and we feel this can be done without
violating our Ancient Laws, Regulations, or Landmarks.
In substantiation of this, we would like to make certain references regarding the above, i.e. the Landmarks.
LANDMARK 18. States only, quote, "The qualification of candidates
for initiation," unquote. Note: No reference is made as to physical qualifications, therefore no change is necessary.
LANDMARK 24. States that Masonry is: Quote, "The foundation of
a speculative science upon an operative art, and the symbolic use and explanation of the terms of that art, for the purpose of religious or moral teaching."
Unquote. This is self-explanatory and tends to refute the opinion that symbolism has no place in our ritual. See C.M.C. Sec. 511} for reference to symbolism. We must remember that we will now confer the second or third degree
of Masonry upon a candidate who may have suffered an accident after he has
received his first degree, thus employing symbolism or exemplification to do
so. It seems rather ambiguous that we could do this in one case and not in
another.
LANDMARK 25. Quote, "The last and crowning landmark of all is,
that these landmarks can never be changed." Unquote.

Remarks:
It is our contention that a landmark must have some basis or meaning to
substantiate it so as to be a landmark. No. 25 does not fit this category and
is therefore not a landmark but rather an opinion. Change is change within
itself, which is inevitable, and must be recognized as such. Anything that can
be, or has been, established by man may also be altered by man.
The written laws, together with the landmarks, constitute the foundations
of Masonic law. The landmarks where applicable should not be changed, but
where they no longer exist due to our own change, i.e. from operative Masonry to speculative Masonry, they are then not applicable to the art. And
further that there is nothing in the landmarks that prohibit us from accepting anyone who is physically disqualified. It is only the old rules and regulations, practiced in the early history of operative Masonry, that mention anything of not accepting a perfect youth, or a man who is not of sound body,
or a person that may have a maim in his body. By reviewing all the written
laws and regulations prior to 1721, we find that they are totally inconsistent
with our present way of living and it would be impossible to comply with
them or even find a place for them in todays society. It is mentioned in the
C.M.C. on page 364, under Grand Lodge Powers In General, that the Constitutions and Regulations of 1721 thereto may be altered or amended by a
Grand Lodge; they, however, remain in force until so amended or changed
by positive enactment of the Grand Lodge. We therefore, repeat, that it is
the old written laws and regulations (and which it is stated, can be repealed
or changed) that is causing some of the minds to cling to the belief that a man
must be of sound limb and body to be accepted into speculative Masonry.

256

257

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP' CALIFORNIA

We also feel that by making a true analysis of this report, which is backed
up with documented evidence to support it and other evidence gained by men
in their travels and the fact that only seven out of the 49 Grand Jurisdictions
in the United States, including California, still adhere to the strict rule of the
perfect youth, that we will find it difficult to bring forth logical evidence that
we should not consider a change in California procedures for the acceptance
of physically-handicapped persons if otherwise qualified.
It is therefore, our strong desire and recommendation that further consideration be given to this matter based upon the information submitted in
this report. Ever remembering that physical sufficiency of the applicant shall
be left to the sound discretion of the Lodge, and that the degrees would be
conferred by "Blue Ribbon" ritualists.
We would like to close this report witli the final recommendation that the
respective reports of his commitee be made a part of the 1971 Grand Lodge
Proceedings and that the combined reports be referred back to the committee
on Policy and General Purposes for further recommendations and disposition
at this annual Grand Lodge session of 1971.
Respectfully submitted by those voting for change.
HowARD K. NoBLE
Lours B. SMITH
GEORGE P. CALDERWOOD
GEORGE A. JURGENS
]ACX T. EsTOLL
JOHN M. CONOVER

At a meeting of this Committee, a vote was taken as to those favoring a
change ln the physical requirements necessitating a change in ritual; the
results were five in favor and five against. Those favoring a change in the
requirements have determined to present a separate report. This report is
made by the Chairman and those recommending no change in the physical
requirements.
The present regulations governing. physical qualifications in California
are contained in sections 511 and 512 of the California Masonic Code.
Sec. 511. Moral and Physical Qualifications. An applicant for the
degrees of Masonry must be a man; no woman nor eunuch; free born,
being neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman; a believer in God and a
future existence; of moral conduct;; capable of reading and writing;
having no maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable
of learning the art, and physically able to conform substantially to what
the several degrees respectively require of him.
Sec. 512. Sound Discretion Required. The question as to the
physical sufficiency of the applicant shall be left to the sound discretion
of the Lodge. When the applicant is unable to comply literally with the
physical requirements, the Master shall state the nature and extent of
his disabilities to the Lodge before ballot is taken.
There has never been any method of making Masons in this jurisdiction
except by the candidate individually receiving the degrees in strict accordance
with the ritual adopted by ·Grand. Lodge. According to section 554 of the
C.M.C., "each degree conferred •.. in this jurisdiction must be in conformity
with the ritual now taught by the Grand Lecturer and recognized by the
Grand Lodge, and such must be adhered to by all Lodges and Masons in
this jurisdiction".
Obviously, to accommodate disabled or deformed candi~U:S· it ~ould
require a complete change of ritual, indeed many different varieties of ntual,
depending upon the nature and extent of the disability or deformity. There
could be no uniformity of ritual.
Let us review the history of the rule in California.
The matter of physical qualifications was first discussed in this jurisdiction by Grand Master William H. Howard in May, 1855, when he stated
to Grand Lodge that it was not within the province of the Grand Master or
of the Grand Lodge to remove this ancient landmark. This was before Dr.
Albert Mackey formulated his statement of 25 Landmarks.
The position of the Grand Lodge itself was first declared in 1864, when it
adopted the report of its Committee on Jurisprudence, in answer to the
question, "Do the ancient charges require the applicant for the m~steries
of Masonry to be physically perfect, and if not, what degree of dismemberment or deformity shall exclude him?" (Proceedings of 1864, pp. 363-4)
That report, in its own words went for the answer to the "foundation the landmarks and andent charges". After referring to the 18th Landmark
as given by Dr. Mackey, the report quoted the ancient charges approved by

(B) POSITION - AGAINST CHANGE
At the 1970 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes moved "that this Grand Lodge instruct the
incoming Grand Master to appoint a special commission on Physical Qualifications for the purpose of conducting an in-depth study on the entire matter
of physical requirements for admission to Masonry in this Jurisdiction and
with the instruction to report in detail to this Grand Lodge when its work
is completed, and, if possible, to do so at the 1971 Annual Communication''.
The motion was carried and the Grand Master, Most Worshipful Herbert A.
Huebner, appointed your Committee, stating "I desire this Committee to
make a thorough study, and to submit a report containing its observations,
conclusions and recommendations. It shall be full and fair, so that the Grand
Lodge may intelligently act upon the question".
Your Committee has reviewed a wealth of material, including our own
proceedings, a copy of the Masonic Service Association booklet entitled
"Doctrine of the Perfect Youth", and reviewed many of the physical requirements of other Grand Jurisdictions, including the Grand Lodge of
Minnesota as published in the Proceedings of Educational Lodge No. 1002
of Minneapolis; the report of Indiana by its Grand Secretary; and reports
from the Grand Lodges of Louisiana and North Carolina; and the publication
of the Philalethes Society, which contains reports o( discussions taking place
on the subject of Physical Qualifications at the annual meeting of the Society
in Washington, D. C. February 19, 1971.

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Grand Lodge of England in 172 2: "No Master should take an apprentice
... unless he be a perfect youth, having no maim or defect in his body that
may render him incapable of learning the art. . . ." They concluded that
these, "taken together, form a part of the body of Masonry, in which we
are agreed that no man or body of men can make innovations". (Please note
that in 1722 Masonry was speculative, not operative.)
The question to be determined, the 1864 report stated, is as to the
proper interpretatio n of the language used in the landmark and the charge
quoted. To explain the landmark and charge, they referred to the 5th article
of the Old York Constitutions of 926: "A candidate must be without blemish
and have the full and proper use of his limbs, for a maimed man can do the
Craft no good"; to the Regulations of 1663: "No person shall hereafter be
accepted as a Freemason but such as are of able body; and to the Ancient
Charges at Makings, at about the year 1686: "That he be made able in all
degrees ... and that he have his right limbs as a man ought to have." The
report then stated that "one who has lost any of those members, or any of those
senses which are brought into use and required by the necessities of the work
of the lodge, would have such 'maim or defect in his body as to render him
incapable of learning the art', and he could not be said to 'have his right
limbs as a man ought to have'."
The Committee disagreed with Dr. Mackey's view that absolute perfection was required, but concluded "that it is a violation of Masonic usage
to admit any man who is incapable of complying literally with what is required of him in passing through the ceremonies of each degree."
The Grand Lodge thereupon adopted the express rule that
"The person who desires to be made a Mason must be a man . • .
not deformed or dismembered, but hale and sound in his physical eonformation, having his right limbs as a man ought to have; and be able to
conform literally to what the several degrees respectively require of him".
This rule was reaffirmed in 1872 (1872:556) and at various other times,
whenever the question was raised. (1894:767; 1897:234)
In 1900 the rule as to physical qualifications was again reviewed by the
Committee on Jurisprudence, which explained that in 1864 the Jurisprudence
Committee had endorsed the view that the perfection required by the Ancient
Charges approved in 1722 was simply that the candidate should have no
maim or defect that might render him incaPable of learning the art, and that
if he had no such maim or defect, then he was a "perfect youth" for all the
purposes of Masonry and therefore eligible. They then recommended, and
Grand Lodge adopted, an amendment of the rule to read as follows:
"The person who desires to be made a Mason must be a man . . •
having no maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable
of learntng the art, and physically able to conform literally to what the
several degrees respectively require of him".

The Committee was of the opinion that this did not violate the Ancient
Landmarks. (1900:865,868)
In 1914, the above rule, then contained in section 94 of the Constitution
of Grand Lodge, was modified by substituting the word "sub~tantially~' for
the word "literally" ( 1914: 173); but it was held that substantial compliance
could not be obtained by use of artificial aids (1919:615), and further, that
no dispensation could be issued to avoid the rule. (1922:260)
In 1928, a Special Committee on Physical Qualifications, ~ppointe? to
conduct an in-depth study, reported to the Grand Lodge. This conumttee
proposed that the Lodges themselves should determine whether or not a
candidate could substantially comply, and Grand Lodge then adopted an
amendment to the law by adding the following language:
"And the question as to the physical sufficiency of the candidate shall
be left to the sound discretion of the lodge. Where the candidate is unable
to comply literally with the physical requirements, the Master shall
state the nature and extent of his disabilities to the lodge before the
ballot is taken".
This is the present rule contained in section 512 of the C.M.C.
In 1931, Grand Master John Stewart Ross, author of the Ross Digest
and an eminent authority on Masonic law, decided that the Lodge must
determine whether or not the applicant is physically able to conform substantially q, what the several degrees require of him without the aid of an
artificially substituted hand or leg; that the ritual detem;unes the ~uesti~n;
and that Section 94 of the Constitution must be read ID connection with
the ritual and as a construction thereof; and that the amendment in 1928
in no way changed our law as to physical requirements. He further stated
that the results hoped for by the amendment of 1928 had not been attained
and recommended striking from Section 94 the word "substantiall y" and
also striking the provision leaving it to the discretion of the lodge to determine
whether a candidate could conform to the ritual.
After reports from the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and
majority and minority reports from the Cotnmittee on Juris~rudence, the
Grand Lodge sustained the decision of the Grand Master, but did not amend
the law in any respect. (1931:451,725-731)
The next major attack on the rule was contained in resolutions in 1946.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, of which P.G.M. William
Rhodes Hervey was the Chairman, reported that from time immemorial the
course of the fraternity has been guided by certain unalterable landmarks,
and among the matters controlled by the landmarks was the matter of
qualification of candidates; that as far back as our written record g~, ~e
qualification of candidates has been a part of our landmarks, and had m its
inception, or in its later history, no connection with the occupation of the
operative Mason.
The report expressly stated that "this Grand I..o<!ge has r~gnized a!ld
is committed to twenty-five landmarks, of which the eighteenth is the qualifi-

259

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

cation of candidates for admission'; and that under our Constitution the
power of the Grand Lodge is limited 'by a strict adherence to the Ancient
Landmarks of the Order'· and that among the Ancient Charges and Regulations to which a Master ~ust submit before installation is the following: 'You
admit that it is not in the power of any man or body of men to make innovations in the body of Masonry'. The landmarks being unrepealable must
ever continue in force, and constitute the unwritten law of Masonry." The
report reviewed the Old Charges and Regulations as to physical ability and
recommended that pending resolutions having for their purpose a change
in our law be not adopted. Grand Lodge voted to follow this recommendation
and adopted the Committee report. (1946:194-197)
Subsequent resolutions having for their purpose the modification of the
rule on physical qualifications have been voted down. In 1962, Grand Master
Guy B. Mize, on recommendation of the Committee on Jurisprudence,. concurred in by the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Ritual,
declared a resolution purporting to rescind the physical requirements to be
contrary to the landmarks of Masonry and declared it rejected. (1962:263)
In 1963 ( 1963 :pp.298-300), the Committee on Policy and General Purposes summarized in its report the reasons for rejection of physical qualification changes which had been presented virtually every year for more than a
decade. It is worth reproducing here:
"Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes ... (has considered
the proposals to eliminate the requi~ements of physical qualification) .•.
without emotion and only from the standpoint of what, in our opinion, would
be good for Masonry.
"Masonry selects its candidate5 and admits them only after careful
investigation and a unanimous ballot. No one has a right to become a Mason.
It is a privilege granted to a comparatively small number.
"To begin with, we exclude half of the human race. No woman can
become a Mason. (It might be noted parenthetically that a 14,000 member
men's club in California, formed solely for the purpose of "getting the facts",
having been threatened with suit for failure to admit women, while receiving
a tax-exempt status, has now permitted women to become members). Half
of the remainder of the population is likewise excluded, namely any one under
the required age of 21 years. (Again we insert the question of this age
restriction against the background of the recently granted vote to 18-yearolds.)
"In California, for more than one hundred years, we have adhered to
the regulation that no one having a maim or defect in his body that may
render him incapable of learning the art and physically unable to conform
to what the several degrees respectively require of him, can become a Mason.
"The physical requirements of qualification of candidates for the degrees
of Masonry are probably as old as Masonry itself. They are a survival of
Operative Masonry and are peculiar to the Masonic institution, just as are
the regulations excluding women and minors. One of the Ancient Landmarks

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

stated by Dr. Mackey, and which for several decades has been printed in
the Ross Digest and our Masonic Code, is the 'qualification of candidates for
initiation' as the 18th Landmark.
"A natural sympathy for those unfortunate men who have suffered severe
physical injuries has caused numerous proposals to change the old requirements, and these have been presented throughout the history of our Grand
Lodge. They have been rejected except for the compromise which resulted
in the adoption of our present regulations many years ago, now contained
in sections 511 and 512 of the C.M.C.: 'having no maim or defect in his
body that may render him incapable of learning the art, and physically able
to conform substantially to what the several degrees respectively require of
him'. The question as to physical sufficiency of the applicant is left to the
sound discretion of the Lodge, and it is determined by the ritual.
"Since the rule as to physical qualification has existed for so long that it
is at least regarded as one of the Ancient Landmarks, it should not be changed
without some change in the condition of the Craft which would compel it.
We may properly inquire what change has occurred in the condition of the
Craft which would now require a change in our ancient regulation. We
know of none. Masonry does not go out and seek candidates; we select
those who apply, and they must apply of their own free will and accord.
"If these proposals were adopted, it would require a different ritual for
each case of physical defect, depending upon the nature and severity of the
particular deformity. This would completely destroy any uniformity in the
ritual. Under our law, the conferring of a degree must be in conformity with
the established ritual taught by the Grand Lecturer, and the conferring of
a degree in a merely symbolic manner is out of the question ... Unless we
are prepared to do away with uniformity of the ritual, carefully built up for
a century .•. we cannot change the rule as to physical qualifications . . .
"The most appalling thing about the elimination of the physical requirements would be that it would subject a man who may have suffered a
repulsive physical injury to the required unanimous ballot, with the great
probability that some one or more of the members would reject him. The
resulting damage to an already damaged personality would be both incalculable and irreparable. It would be far kinder to reject such candidates on a
purely legal ground, which they can understand.
"In our opinion, this Grand Lodge has already gone as far in meeting
physical insufficiency as it can reasonably go, making it depend upon the
applicant's ability to conform substantially to what the ritual may require
of him.
"The argument will be made that the requirement of physical sufficiency
is not one of the Ancient Landmarks, because it has not been expressly
adopted by this Grand Lodge. The same may be said for all the other
Landmarks, including belief in God and a future existence, and the Holy
Bible as an indispensable part of the furniture of a Lodge. If a landmark
exists, it needs no adoption, because it has existed from time immemorial and

262

263

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

will continue to exist, and Section 16 of our Constitution states that the
powers of the Grand Lodge are limited by a strict adherence to the Ancient
Landmarks of the Order.
"We recommend that the resolution be not adopted ..•"
The Committee on Jurisprudence presented an even stronger report concerning the Ancient Landmarks and the limitation on the power of Grand
Lodge to alter them. (1963:300-302)
Setting aside, for a moment, the discussion of Ancient Landmarks and
uniformity of ritual, the question remains: Are physical requirements essential to Freemasonry? To answer that question requires some thought as
to what is Freemasonry. Why and how did it become spectrlative or philosophical from an operative origin, and what has enabled it to survive? Bear
in mind that the Craft has been wholly speculative for more than 250 years.
The ethical philosophy of Freemasonry has been the same as the ethical
teachings of small groups in every civilization, but with this difference - in
Freemasonry it is imparted in a matchless symbolism whith is available to
each and every one of us, which teaches more and more as we reflect upon
it more and more.
We have been advised by 6ne Masonic historians that the transition
from operative to speculative Freemasonry took place for social and economic
reasons. Your Chairman disagrees. In the summer of 1970 he had the
privilege of spending two months at Oxford University, lecturlng and doing
some work in 17th Century English history. With the assistance of material
from the Bodleian Library, one of the finest in the world, and manuscripts
from some of the College libraries, and many visits to the Ashmolean Museum,
the Chairman became convinced that the earliest speculatives were attracted
to Masonry out of curiosity. On the 16th of October, 1646, Elias Ashmole,
antiquarian, was received into a Masonic lodge at Warrington Lancashire
tog~ther with ~ Roundhead friend and cousin, Henry Manwaring of
Carmcham, Chesire, and several others. Ashmole's motives for joining were
undoubtedly similar to those of the antiquary Stukeley (1687-1765) who
states in his autobiography that in 1720 "his curiosity led him to be
initiated into the mysterys of Masonry, suspecting it to be the remains of the
mystery of the ancients". Research has shown that neither Ashmole Manwaring, or any of the seven other Freemasons whose names are give:i were
in any way connected with operative Freemasonry.
'
We cannot help but believe that their most important reason for seeking
admission was the very manner in which the great lessons were taught. What
magnificient symbolism imparts the spirit of brotherhood in a certain handclasp. What better way to present the means of achieving and the importance
of peace and harmony in a Lodge, than to have the candidate so prepared
that these lessons are indelibly inscribed on his mind. At the same time he
learns a magnificient lesson in charity. There are a great many other l~ns
imparted in symbolism, the duty of man to man, man to neighbor, man to

God, to family and so on and on. None of these lessons can be taught as

they are described in the ritual without physical qualifications. We have a
practical, realistic means of imparting the greatest of lessons, but to ~press
them upon the mind requires some physical application and necessitates
certain physical qualifications that these lessons may be imparted in an
unforgettable manner.
According to no less authorities than Albert Pike and Dr. Albert Mackey,
Freemasonry is the spiritual successor of the Ancient Mysteries and was
designed to teach and perpetuate the same great moral and spiritual teachings.
No man could receive the Greater Mysteries unless he himself went through
and participated in all the ceremonies of initiation, which required physical
ability and stamina to undergo the pains and perils of those ceremonies.
And, Pike said, "Masonry, successor to the Mysteries, still follows the anc;ienedt
manner of teaching". "Thus, through the succession of ages, are tranSJDltt
unimpaired the most excellent tenets of our Institution". The. manner of
teaching is equally important as the teachings themselves, and is therefore
essential to Freemasonry, which was the very reason for establishment
of the Ancient Landmark.
The members of this Committee who favor a change in physical qualifications contend that such change can be made without violating the Ancient
Landmarks, and that the 18th Landmark does not apply to physical qualifications.
As we have shown from the history of the subject in this jurisdiction, our
Grand Lodge has declared from its very inception that the physic~ qualifi~­
tion of candidates is one of the landmarks. In the report adopted m 1946, it
was declared that this Grand Lodge is committed to the twenty-five Landmarks, and that the requirement of physical qualification is one of them, and
that under our Constitution the power of Grand Lodge itself is limited by a
strict adherence to the Ancient Landmarks, and that these Landmarks are
unrepealable. The claim that we violate the rule by conferring degrees upon
one who is injured after the first degree has no merit. The Landmark applies
only to "candidates for initiation". After initiation, the candidate is a
Mason and is no longer a candidate for initiation.
The suggestion that initiation of disqualified candidates in special lodges
would prevent destruction of uniformity of our ritual is also specious..The
very establishment of such lodges, to manufacture and perform a . ntual
appropriate to the physical deformity of each candidate, would be evidence
of lack of uniformity. It would also deprive the electing lodge of its right
to confer degrees on its own candidate.
We recommend that the question to be put to Grand Lodge should be
simply this: "Do you desire change in the present r~lations conc~rning
physical requirements of candidates which would necessitate change ID the
ritual, or do you oppose such change?

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

It must be remembered that a five-sixths' vote would be required, since
it would be a change in our Constitution and Ordinances. It must also be
borne in mind that this Grand Lodge has repeatedly declared the existing
rule to be one of the Ancient Landmarks to which this Grand Lodge is committed, and that to make a change in our regulations would be to change
that landmark and to alter the provision that the power of Grand Lodge is
limited by a strict adherence to the Ancient Landmarks. If landmarks at all,
they are by the very definition, unrepealable.

Respectfully submitted,
EUGENE S. HoPP, Chairman
GEORGE Q. EVANS
ELBERT w. DAVIS
RoY G. ScANNEL
GURLEY B. BATES
CHARLES T. SCHELL
(NoTE: By action of Grand Lodge, the Grand Secretary was directed to
distribute copies of these reports to each Lodge prior to the 1972 Annual
Communication at which time it will be considered as a matter of business.)

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE

265

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

30, 1971

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

The year ended June 30, 1971 was a good one from the standpoint of
securities under the control of the Investment Committee. Total investible
funds increased from $28,947,850 at June 30, 1970 to $37,446,790 at
year-end. The increase of $8,498,940 is accounted for by contributions and
other funds received of $2,392,481, plus realized and unrealized gains in
the portfolio totaling $6,106,459.
There are three major categories (or groups) of securities available for
investment. These are set forth in the Masonic Code and may be summarized
as follows:
( 1) Group I - Consists of cash, savings accounts, obligations of the
United States, obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions, and such other securities as are legal for savings banks in California and Hawaii. In general, Group I may be said to consist of the highest
grade and most conservative securities. At least 20% of the funds available for investment must be maintained in such securities.
( 2) Group II - Consists generally of bonds, debentures, and other
evidences of indebtedness which do not meet the qualifications of Group I.
It also consists of preferred stocks which are listed on a National Securities
Exchange and the preferred stocks of corporations whose common stocks are
eligible for investment in Group III.

(3) Group III-Consists of common stocks, which must be fully listed and
registered on a national exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, bank and insurance company stocks, shares of investment trusts,
and savings accounts with savings and loan associations. Total investm~nts in
Group III securities are generally limited to 60% of the total portfolio.
There follows a recapitulation of the consolidated portfolio as of June
30, 1971, at market values, compared with the portfolio as of a year earlier:

June 30, 1971
GROUP I
Cash .. .. .... ........ .. . ...... ..
Bonds:
U.S. Treasury ....... .. .... .
Federal Agency ............. . $ 1,695,000
Public Utility .............. .
2,721,750
Transportation ............. .
3,210,000
Industrial .. . . . . ............ .
1,000,000

June 30, 1970

Total Bonds ............ $ 8,626,750
Total Group I . .......... $ 8,626,750
Percent of Total . . . . . . . . .
(23.03%)

$ 9,828,487
$11,088,487
(38.30%)

GROUP II
Bonds:
Non-convertible . ........... . $ 1,059,604
Convertible . . ..... .. ....... .
4,894,370
Total Bonds ........... . .
Preferred Stocks:
Convertible . .... . .......... .

$ 1,260,000
2,118,859
3,242,788
2,055,619
2,411,221

$

457,845
2,977,431

5,953,974

3,435,276

3,541,782

1,918,780

Total Group II . ..... . ... $ 9,495,756
Percent of Total . . . . . . . . .
(25.35%)

$ 5,354,086
(18.5010)

GROUP III
Common Stocks:
Public Utility . .. . ........ . .. . $ 3,659,883
Industrial . ............ . .... . 12,663,784
Financial .. . . ........ .. . .. . .
2,600,867
Transportation . . . . . . . . ..... .
399,750

$ 3,603,955
6,559,961
2,146,986
194,375

Total Group III . .. . ...... $19,324,284
Percent of Total . . . . . . . . .
( 51.62 % )
Total Portfolio . . . . . . . . . . $3 7,446, 790

$12,505,277
(43.20%)
$28,94 7,850

----

As indicated above the most evident changes during the past year were
the switch from Treasdry and Federal Agency bonds to additional high grade

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

corporate issues, which has increased the yield from this portion of our
portfolio. Increased attention has been given to convertible securities, both
debentures and preferred stocks - our total investment in these classes has
nearly doubled over a year ago. We believe that convertible securities
offer a unique opportunity to combine a satisfactory yield with a possible
appreciation in market value. In the area of equities, our total investment
in common stocks has increased from 43.2% of the total portfolio to 51.62%.
At the same time, the number of issues has been decreased, but still is
accounted for by stock in some 64 corporations. Details of the individual
securities making up the various funds are spelled out in the Grand Treasurer's report and are accordingly not repeated here.
As the market value of the portfolio increased, so did the annual return
from interest and dividends. At June 30, 1971 the total estimated annual
income was $1,751,122, as compared with $1,555,890 a year earlier. This
increase has been particularly important in providing the major financial
support for our two Masonic Homes.
It has been the policy of this Committee to consider the safety and
preservation of capital as its primary goal. Nevertheless, recognition has
been given to the necessity for increasing income and at the same time
judiciously providing a measure of protection against the erosive effects of
inflation.
The Committee receives recommendations from Moody's Alliance Capital
Corporation. Such recommendations are subject to the analysis and study
of the Committee prior to any action relating to purchase or sale of securities.
Respectfully submitted,
]ACK F. BoWLEY, Chairman
M. RICHARD ANDREWS
ARTHUR LINSK
DONALD G. CAMPBELL

CHESTER R. MACPHEE
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER

At 5:30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M., Wednesday,
October 13, 1971.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION - WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1971
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
The session was raised by Quai Fong Hee, Master of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of the morning
and afternoon session on Tuesday, October 12, 1971 were read and approved.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCES
The following resolutions considered at the 1970 Annual Communication
failed to receive a 5/6ths vote but did get a simple majority. They are up for
reconsideration at the 1971 session (see Section 783 C.M.C.) and require a
%rds vote for adoption.

BOARDS OF RELIEF
(32)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, The Most Worshipful Chester R. MacPhee, Grand Master
of Masons in California and Hawaii appointed a Special Committee to Study
Boards of Relief and requested the Masters of Lodges in our jurisdiction to
write the Committee as to the views of their officers on this subject; and
WHEREAS, the Committee has received many letters and recommendations but has not had time after receiving them to study the activities of the
various Boards of Reh'ef, meet with those who should be consulted, fully
consider the views of the Lodges which wrote to the Committee and prepare
their report in which to cover the subject, but feel that basic legislation
should be before the October 1970 Annual Communication and therefore
requested the Chairman of the Committee to present this Resolution to present the views of a great majority of the Lodges which wrote to the Committee;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 603 of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
603. Boards of Relief. Lodges having concurrent jurisdiction or located
in areas near the concurrent jurisdiction of such Lodges may form a Board of
Relief under a compact to be agreed upon among themselves and approved
by the Grand Lodge or Grand Master before becoming effective, wherein
they may provide, among other things, for paying the expenses of the work in
such manner as they shall deem proper. Furthermore, the Board of Control
shall, with the consent and by direction of the Grand Master, have the power
to compel any Lodge within this Grand Jurisdiction to become a member of
the Board of Relief nearest its place of meeting; and such Board of Control
tnay, when the interests of the Craft will be subserved thereby, cause to be

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

organized with the consent of and by direction of the Grand Master additional Boards of Relie~ in such places as shall be deemed advisable. A' Lodge
may, for good cause, withdraw from a Board of Relief subject to the approval
of the Board of Control. The Boards of Relief shall be for the purposes of
properly relieving the distress of Masons who are members of Lodges in other
areas of California or of Lodges in other jurisdictions and their widows and
orphans whi~e residing or visiting in the area of the Board of Relief, arranging
and conducting funerals of such deceased Masons, making investigations requested by Lo?ges of ~s or other jurisdictions, visiting sick sojourning
~fasons, operating a cleanng house as to applicants for the degrees of Lodges
m the area of the Board of Relief and such other proper Masonic activities
as may be requested by the Lodges belonging to the Board of Relief all under
the supervision of the B~ard of. Control. Su?t boards shall report annually
to the Grand Lodge, showing theIT work, receipts and disbursements in detail
specifying separately what, if any, has been expended for relief of non~
affiliat~d .M~ns, their widows and orphans, therein sojourning, of this and
other JUnsdictions, funerals of deceased Masons, and how much thereof if
any, has been repaid. This Grand Lodge will not appropriate any of its fu~ds
to any such board not so reporting, nor unless it shall have shown that its
actu:iJ expenses have been borne by the Lodges constituting it. (Former R.D.
Section 264.)
Respectfully submitted,
LEo E. ANDERSON, P.M., No. 355
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, and to the Board of Control.
The Board of Control has carefully studied both Resolutions 32 and 33
and hereby submits our report on them simultaneously.
During the past two years this Board of Control has studied the problems
of the Boards of Relief.
T?ey are many, varied and further complicated by the wide divergence
of op1ruon of the persons connected with them.
Last year a special committee appointed by the Grand Master recommended that the Boards of Relief be discontinued as a June 30, 1970.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes however believed
~t some of the function of the Boards of Relief, pa:ticularly ilie operation of blood banks, to be vital to Masonry. Even though by the strict letter
of the law they were not legally the responsibility of the Boards of Relief
~should be.continued until an alternate method could be found for handl~
mg these functions.
In this, ~he Board of Control concurred although in our report we stated
that w~ ?elieved that the Boards of Relief, in the concept in which they
were ongmally formed had outlived their usefulness.
We believe that our Board has delved further into the problems of the

269

Boards of Relief system than any other board or committee and yet we have
no ready solution to the problem.
We are aware of an intense campaign by individuals who reportedly are
in favor of not only retaining the Boards of Relief but of expanding their
duties. We believe these people have a right to be heard. How much weight is
to be given this small but vociferous minority is for Grand Lodge to decide.
We do not know the contents or the authors of these letters as this information has not been turned over to us.
However, numerous persons have expressed opinions to us regarding our
statement that the Boards of Relief have outlived their usefulness. Some have
agreed. A few have recommended not only the continuance, but the expansion of their duties.
We have been impressed by one significant fact - not one Mason has
expressed to us this latter opinion who was not on the payroll of the Boards
of Relief system or in a position to be strongly influenced by it!
We believe that the Brothers who presented Resolutions 32 and 33 are
sincere in trying to solve the deep set and long standing problems of the
Boards of Relief. However, the problems are too complex to be solved by
either or a combination of these. At least another year of intense study will
be required before a practical approach to legislation can be made correcting
this problem.
This study should include, but not be limited to, a tabulated questionnaire, worded so as to elicit basic information, circulated to every active
Mason in the Jurisdiction. It should also give heavy weight to a searching
Qttestionnaire to the entire Inspectoral Corps who are probably closer to
individual problems of the Craft than any other single group, as well as being
the best informed.
In order that this Grand Lodge may have the opportunity to study
this problem in depth, your Board of Control recommends a "No" vote on
both Resolutions 32 and 33.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Resolution No. 32 delineates the proper duties and responsibilities of
Boards of Relief based upon the careful and thorough study of the Special
Chmmittee on Boards of Relief.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes the proposal of
the Special Study Committee retains all the vital and timetested services of
Boards of Relief and provides a very satisfactory arrangement for their
9rganization and governance. We believe the present day functions assigned
to the Boards of Relief require they be more correctly designated as Masonic
Service Bureaus.
I therefore move the adoption of Resolution No. 32 with the proviso
that where the words "Board of Relief" appear there be substituted
"Masonic Service Bureau" and that all necessary changes be made in our
law to accomplish the change of name. The Committee on Policy and General
Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote on the revised resolution.

270

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Committee on Jurisprudence reports that the proposed legislation
is sufficient but suggests the following amendments in order to further clarify
the activities of the Boards of Relief:
Delete the words "and such other proper Masonic activities as may be
requested by the Lodges belonging to the Board of Relief, all under the
su~sion of the Board of Control" appearing on lines 23, 24 and 25 and
substit~te the following: "and such proper Masonic activities as may be
authorized by the Board of Control as provided in Section 263 of the
California Masonic Code subject to appeal to and review by the Grand Master
or Grand Lodge."
Delete the words "report annually to the Grand Lodge" on line 26 and
substitute "report annually to the Board of Control."
With these amendments the Committee recommends adoption of the
resolution.

(NoTE: By separate action Grand Lodge agreed to consider Resolution No. 32 with the substitution of "Masonic Service Bureau" in
lieu of "Board of Relief" as recommended by the Committee on Policy
a~d General Purposes. The proponents of Resolution No. 33 thereupon
withdrew that resolution from consideration with the exception of the
paragraph, "RESOLVED, that the name of California's Masonic
Boards of Relief should be changed to read 'MASONIC SERVICE
BUREAU' and be identified as such by the area in which they are
located.")
A simple majority voted for amended Resolution No. 32 and the applicable paragraph of Resolution No. 33. Failing a 5/6 vote, the matter was
held over until the 1971 Annual Communication as a "Proposed Amendment
to the Ordinances." (Sec. 783 C.M.C.)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 32 as amended, was approved by a simple majority at the
1970 Grand Lodge Communication and is now before this Grand Lodge. Your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes this Resolution, the
result of careful study by the Special Committee on Boards of Relief retains
a!l the vital, essential and time-tested services of Boards of Relief ~nd provides a very satisfactory arrangement for their organization and governance.
The change of name from Board of Relief to Masonic Service Bureau
more correctly designates the present day function of the Boards.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes unanimously moves the
adoption of 603 and strongly urges a "Yes" vote.
The Board of Control:
This resolution as amended if adopted, will permit a board of relief to
conduct funerals without the knowledge of or reference to any Lodge.
The Board of Control has no objection to a board of relief "arranging" a
funeral, and making all necessary correspondence, telephone calls, etc., to

271

accomplish the ceremony in a dignified and efficient manner UNDER THE
AUSPICES OF A LODGE. Nor are we opposed to the Master of a Lodge
authorizing the Secretary of a board of relief, or any qualified brother to perform the ceremony.
However, your Board of Control believes the power and responsibility
should rest with the Master of a Lodge, and that the minutes of the Lodge
should reflect the funeral so conducted.
We therefore recommend a "NO" vote.
Adopted % vote.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CODE REVISION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Code Commission has the responsibility of preparing corrections,
deletions and additions to the yearly Pocket Supplement of the California
Masonic Code.
This work reflects the work done by Grand Lodge during the Annual
Communication including the passage of Resolutions which affect the California Masonic Code.
After the 1970 Communication the necessary Code section changes and
indexing were incorporated and submitted to the printer in record time, and
printed and disseminated.as promptly as possible.
The work of the Special Committee on Code Revision during 1970-1971
has been somewhat curtailed over previous years. This has primarily been
occasioned because during this year your Committee has completed a full
draft of the proposed amended Code but with the necessity of review by
certain designated Grand Lodge Officers and Committees, complete accord
has been slow in materializing. Additionally, the Committee suffered the loss
of Bill Davis, Past Grand Lecturer and consultant on the Committee who had
been extremely active in working with your Committee in the preparation of
the new Code.
It is anticipated that shortly after this Annual Communication the necessary Committees and the members of this Committee can meet to finally
prepare the draft for submission to the printer.
Your Code Commission requests a budget of $500.00 and the Special
Committee on Code Revision requests a budget of $2,250.00 for the coming
years.
Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, Chairman
ANnREw

J. NocAs

}OHN B. WATTS

RICHARD L. RIEMER
ALLAN

B. GRESHAM

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)
(Note: See emergent resolution, "Code Revision.")

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EMERGENT RESOLUTION - CODE REVISION
To the Most W<>rshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the revised Masonic Code is not ready for submission to
Grand Lodge at the October, 1971, Communication;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

the reservation that those now receiving pension funds and those now
employed by a Board of Relief shall continue to receive the benefits now
provided. Only future employees shall be removed from eligibility."

NOW BE IT RESOLVED, that the draft of the proposed revised

Upon the request of the Retirement Pension Plan Committee, to which
Recommendation No. 3 was referred, action on the recommendation was
deferred to the 1971 Communication of Grand Lodge.

ReviSion, be reviewed by the elective Grand Lodge officers and by the
members of the Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General
Purposes; and that those sections of the said revised code which shall be
appro~ed by the elective Grand Lodge officers and by the Chairmen of the
C~mnuttees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes shall be
printed and shall become effective as the California Masonic Code Annotated
when so declared. by. the. Grand Master, unless and until Grand Lodge at its
A~~al Commumcation m October 1972 fail to ratify in their entirety such
revisions so approved and declared.

After consultation with the actuaries for our Retirement Pension Plan, and
ftc:ognizing that necessary consent of governmental agencies, under somewhat stringent rules, could be secured to implement the recommendation
of the Board of Control, your Retirement Pension Plan Committee does not
believe that the existing policy of Grand Lodge of granting retirement
pension benefits to all eligible employees of Boards of Relief should now be
changed to eliminate certain future employees from eligibility for retirement
pension benefits.

Cali~~rnia Maso~c Code Annotated, prepared by the Committee on Code

.~E IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that with respect only to such proposed

r~vis10ns, the Grand Secretary be and he is hereby relieved of compliance
with subparagraph 19th of Section 150 of the California Masonic Code
except for deposit of a copy of said revised California Masonic Code An~
no~ted, when approved, in the Grand Secretary's office and transmission of
copies thereof to members. of th~ Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy
~nd G~neral Purposes, said copies to be made available, on request, for
mspection by any member of Grand Lodge; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this resolution be considered and
adopte? as an emergent matter pursuant to Section 104 of the California
Masomc Code.
Respectfully submitted,
LEo E. ANDERSON, P.M., No. 355
ELMER W. HEALD, P.M., No. 355
LAURENCE E. DAYTON, P.M., No. 61
CARL H. ALLEN, P.M., No. 388
DONALD R. FRETZ, P.M., No. 99
0 F. JosE DELARros, P.M., No. 376
GUY AJ!;YNOLDS,
PM
. ., N O. 95
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETIREMENT
PENSION PLAN
BOARD OF RELIEF EMPLOYEES
To the Most W<>rshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
There was submitted to Grand Lodge by the Board of Control in its
report at the 1970 Communication, its recommendation No. 3, which reads
as follows:
'?hat Board of. Relief employees be removed from eligibility in the
pension and health msurance benefits. This recommendation is made with

.

Further, the policy of the Retirement Pension Plan Committee has been
that employees under the Plan who reach retirement age and who are
permitted to continue employment under specific approval should not receive
in total compensation, i.e., wages and pension benefits, more than their total
tompensation at time of reaching retirement age.
Your Committee recommends that all agencies participating in the Grand
Lodge Retirement Pension Plan adhere strictly to the 'spirit as well as the
letter of the law' when salary and pension provisions are being established
for employees who are desirous of being permitted to continue employment
after reaching retirement age.
To bring the matter before Grand Lodge for action, we move the adoption
of Recommendation No. 3 in the 1970 report of the Board of Control but
we urge a "No" vote.
Respectfully submitted,
GUY B. MIZE, Chairman
DONALD G. CAMPBELL

ALFRED w. ODLE

EDWARD T. MANCUSO

RAYMOND A. EBBAGE

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has reviewed the reports
of the Retirement Pension Plan Committee and is in agreement with the
proposals made by that Committee. We find them to be appropriate and
consistent with established Grand Lodge Policy.
A majority voted against the resolution.

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMM ITTEE ON RITUAL
CEREMONY FOR REMOVAL OF CORNERSTONE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Grand Master MacPhee's recommendation to prepare a ceremony for
removal of cornerstone (Recommendation No. 4).
Recommendation No. 4 made by Grand Master MacPhee at the Annual
Communication of 19 70 required that the Ritual Committee give consideration
to preparing a public ceremony for opening the copper containers removed
from cornerstones of buildings where the cornerstone was previously laid by
the Grand Lodge, and for replacing of such cornerstones by a plaque wherever
possible.
Your Ritual Committee has given careful consideration to this recommendation and herewith begs leave to report as follows:
A detailed study of this recommendation has disclosed the following
facts:
1. The incidence of simply removing the contents of a cornerstone container are so rare as to obviate the necessity for a ceremony strictly
for that purpose.
2. Should the Grand Master at this Annual Communication appoint a
Committee to adapt our present Cornerstone ceremony to the situation
of placing a plaque on a completed building, this ceremony would
then lend itself very readily to placing plaques on Public Buildings.
3. As to the actual removal of Cornerstones, Grand Master MacPhee
did correctly assess the situation: more and more frequently, Masonic
Temples, Public School Buildings and other Public Buildings are
being torn down or replaced with new construction, thereby making
necessary the romoval of the cornerstone of these buildings.
Item three above carries the import of this study: because of the increased
incidence of cornerstone removal, we conclude that a need does exist for
an additional Grand Lodge Ceremony.
Accordingly we have authored a new ceremony for the purpose of removing
the Cornerstone of Lodge Halls or other Public Buildings.
Even though the ceremony is in its finished form it has not as yet been
performed. We therefore move that this cornerstone removal ceremony be
adopted in principal, with the provision that after it has been performed
a sufficient number of times to as.sure that all modifications and corrections
have been made, that it then be printed and made available as an official
Ceremony of this Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
H. DOUGLAS LEMONS, Chairman
BURTON 0. YOUNG
ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS
GEORGE
PERKINS

w.

EDWARD E. SEAGLE
WALLACE H. FISKE
ERNEST M. NEWTON

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
(NOTE: See report of Committee following Grand Lecturer's Report.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

275

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO PREPARE
GRAND LODGE HISTO RY PUBLICATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
At the last Grand Lodge Communication in 1970, Grand Master Chester
R. MacPhee recommended and Grand Lodge approved the preparation of "a
concise history of our Grand Lodge to be available in a small booklet for
~hers visitors and other interested persons".
Her~rt A. Huebner Grand Master of Masons in 1971, acted upon that
recommendation and the pamphlet, "A Perfect Ashlar in the Making", is
the result.
The Grand Master appointed a Special Committee to Prepare a Grand
Lodge History Publication in February 1971, and the committee held its
first meeting in March.
On August 11, 1971, the final draft of the history was placed in the hands
of the Grand Master.
The committee of three accomplished a monumental task in the space
of less than five months - pressing the history of the Grand Lodge, covering
a period of more than 120 years, into a concise history in pamphlet form.
The chairman is very grateful to Brother Max L. Heyman, Jr. ~811) for
serving as editor and to Brother Edwin N. Stansel (421) who contnb~t~ so
much to the committee's task. We also are grateful to Brother Philip L.
Goldstein (42) and Raymond A. Jackson (2), who acted as consultants on
this project, and to the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, Edward H.
Siems PGM DeWald Baum, Grand Marshal, and Brother Henry D.
Olip~t (360). Past Grand Master and committee chairmen were most
helpful to the committee.
We hope that the Grand Lodge and members of the Craft in our jurisdiction will find "A Perfect Ashlar in the Making" lives up to words of our
Grand Master, "a little giant of a volume worthy of your attention".
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES C. HusHAW , Chairman

MAX L. HEYMAN

EDWIN N. STANSEL

Adopted.
Ass1s"tAN T GRAND LECTURE R -

HAWAII

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
No action should be taken at this time in view of possible impending
establishment of a Grand Lodge of Hawaii.
The Cr>mmittee on Ritual:
Pursuant to the recommendation that the Ritual Committee study the
advisability of appointing an Assistant Grand Lecturer in Hawaii, such a
study has been made and we wish to report as follows:

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We are completely sympathetic to Grand Master MacPhee's wish that
more adequate contact be maintained with the Hawaiian Lodges, and that
those Lodges be provided with more adequate representation in the California
Grand Lodge.
We do not feel that the appointment of another Assistant Grand Lecturer
is the proper method to apply, and our reasons for arriving at this conclusion
are as follows:
The great distance which separates the mainland from Hawaii would
make extremely difficult the transportation of the Hawaiian Assistant Grand
Lecturer to and from Ritual Committee meetings which are held in various
parts of California.
The relatively small number of Brethren who would directly benefit from
this appointment (Hawaii has only three Districts and Ten Lodges) does not
justify such a change being made.
The cost of maintaining an Assistant Grand Lecturer in Hawaii would
be prohibitive: an estimate of this cost runs to approximately $10,000.00 per
year, almost one quarter of the present total budget for the Committee on
Ritual. This, based on six division conferences in California, two Ritual Committee meetings in California, attendance at Grand Lodge Annual Communications for the additional Assistant Grand Lecturer, as well as possible ceremonial attendance on the mainland; cost of transporting the entire Committee
on Ritual and the Elective Line Officers to Hawaii for a division conference;
normal yearly expense of an additional Assistant Grand Lecturer, plus cost
of regalia, etc. etc.
The purpose which Brother MacPhee hopes to accomplish with this
recommendation can be achieved by requiring the Assistant Grand Lecturer
of Division Three pay multiple annual visits to Hawaii for the purpose of
instruction in the Ritual and better representation. The cost of this would
be relatively small in that travel for only one person is involved.
Based upon the foregoing, your Committee on Ritual feels that the
advantages of such an appointment are far outweighed by the disadvantages.
We recommend a "NO" vote on Recommendation No. 1.
Not adopted.
COMMERCIALISM -

POLICY MANUAL

Tke Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This was held over from the last Annual Communication in order to key
such a manual into the revised California Masonic Code. The revised Code is
not yet completed and thus there should be action on the Commercialism
Policy Manual for the same reasons as stated on page 242 of the 1970
Proceedings.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

STUDY OF COMMITTEES AND BOARDS

Special Committee for Organization Study:
After consultation and correspondence with several interest~ perso.ns,
tncluding Most Worshipful Chester R. MacPhee, under whose adrrurustr~tion
as Grand Master Recommendation No. 9 was promulgated;. Most Worshipful
Edward H. Siems; members of the committee; an~ others, It was my conclusion that the work of the committee was already bemg performed ~y o~ers.
In order to eliminate a chance of conflict or of needless duplication, the
committee took no further action and I recommend on behalf of the committee that no further action be hlen on Recommendation No. 9 until after
.
the 1971 Grand Lodge.
I further recommend on behalf of the committee tha~ immediately ~oll~w­
ing the close of the 1971 Grand Lodge, a Special Committee for Or~aru~tion
Study be reconstituted for compilation of the results of ~ny r':°rgai_uzation of
Grand Lodge and that such Special Committee. forthwith d1sserrunate such
compilation to the various Grand Lodge committees affected, thereby and
maintain a close liaison with such committees to determine if there are any
BUggestions being advanced for further reorganization o~ Grand Lodge; .and
further that such Special Committee promptly and continuous~y transmit to
the Gr~d Master its recommendations regarding any suggestions advanced
and any suggestions originating with such Special ~ommittee.
.
Work with this committee revealed that there is not n~w available ~y
graphic representation of the structure of Grand Lodge. With your pe?IDssion and with the permission of the incoming Grand Master, I shall mdependently prepare such a representation following the results of the 1971
Grand Lodge actions.
Respectfully submitted,
F. JOSE DELARIOS
Tke Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
.
This pertains to a recommendation for name c~ges f~r ce~tain CoII?mittees and Boards. This should be held until the revised Califorrua Masomc
Code is completed and submitted.
.
.
.
I move that the above three items of unfinished busmess continue to be
held for action at a future communication.
Adopted.
IDENTICAL REsoL UTIONS

To tke Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes,
pursuant to Grand Master MacPhee's Recommendation No. 5 ~de. ~t the
1970 Annual Communication, were requested to study the desirab1ht!. of
preventing the same resolution being presented year after year and reqwn~g
a year or more to elapse before a resolution of a similar nature could be agam
presented to this Grand Lodge.

278

279

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

on
'.fhese Committees have considered this subject and your Committee
are
which
ns
endatio
recomm
its
ed
Pohcy and General Purposes has present
concurred in by your Committee on Jurisprudence.
on is
In order to carry out the policy decided upon the following resoluti
presented:
RESOLVED: That Section 104 be amended by adding at the end thereof
the following:
have
"If resolutions of a similar nature on the same subject matter
ni.
Commu
Annual
tive
been presented to Grand Lodge at two consecu
then
adopted
been
have
them
of
cations, and voted upon and none
~
s~b!ect to the provisions of Sections 78 and 783, no resolutio~ of
or
to
ed
present
be
can
matter
subject
same
the
on
nature
Slllll~ar
considered by a subsequent Annual Communication until two Annual
Communications have been held, except as emergent matters pursuant
to Section 104."
Respectfully submitted,
LEO E. ANDERSON
L. E. DAYTO N
DONAL D R. FRETZ

Member: James Craven, Public Accountant and member of the Board
of Trustees, California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Member: Guy B. Mize, P.G.M., Trustee, Masonic Homes of California
and former member of the Special Finance Study Committee and
the Grand Lodge Committee on Finance.

w.

HEALD
ELMER
CARL H. ALLEN

Guv E. REYNOLDS

F. J. DELARIOS

Adopted 5/6 vote.

REPORT OF IN-DE PTH STUDY COMMITTEE
ed at
(NOTE : The report of t~e I.n·Depth Study Committee below, present
over
held
Lodge,
Grand
by
action
upon
u:as,
n
unicatio
the 197~ Ann~al Comm_
were
report
the
of
phs
paragra
The
.
nication
Commu
this
at
ration
for conside
th
numbered and presented to Grand Lodge by the Chairman of the Jn-Dep
the
to
tions
clarifica
or
ents,
amendm
Study Committee. Where supplements,
paragraphs were acted upon by Grand Lodge, the results are noted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Paragraph No. 1

Grand
Pursu~t to a recommendation made by Grand Master Crigler to
"that
adopted
was
on
Lod?e at its 1969 annual communication, a resoluti
h
in-dept
an
make
to
tee
commit
the mcoming Grand Master appoint a special
entities
its
and
Lodge
Grand
our
of
n
operatio
study of the administration and
toward effecting any possible economy or increased efficiency."
Paragraph No. 2

ap. The resolution was implemented by Grand Master MacPhee by the
Study.
th
In-Dep
pomtm~nt of the following committee to pursue the
Chairman: W. Stanley Davis, C.P.A. and member of the Grand Lodge
Committee on Taxation.

Paragraph No. 3

of
The committee met immediately to organize and establish a course
the
with
tee,
commit
the
task,
the
of
action. Recognizing the extensiveness
, a
approval of Grand Master MacPhee, invited Phil N. Myers, P.G.M.
Board,
former member of the Finance Committee and of the Masonic Homes
r with
and currently Chairman of the Grand Lodge Audit Committee togethe
,
Finance
on
ttee
Commi
Lodge
John A. Sickenberger, Chairman of the Grand
serve
to
ttee,
Commi
Study
Finance
Special
and also a former member of the
as consultants to the committee.
Paragraph No. 4

d
The committee was directed to include all entities ultimately involve
itself
Lodge
Grand
the
to
n
financially with the Grand Lodge. In additio
c
this was to include the Masonic Homes of California, the California Masoni
tee
commit
The
.
Temple
ial
Memor
c
Masoni
nia
Califor
Foundation, and the
Grand
included consideration of the Retirement Fund for employees of
or
Control
of
Board
Lodge and its entities. The survey did not include the
Lodge.
Grand
the
of
tees
commit
the Committee on Lodge Financing or other
Paragraph No. 5

Your committee held a series of meetings, reviewed various reports
Grand
prepared in previous years by public accountants and by members of
and
Decoto
at
Homes
c
Lodge engaged in special studies, visited the Masoni
of
ons
operati
the
to
relates
it
as
Covina, surveyed the Grand Lodge office
the
Homes,
c
Masoni
the
of
ns
functio
Grand Lodge and the administrative
of
Memorial Temple and the California Masonic Foundation. In the course
met
who
these meetings, we discussed various problems with individuals
ibility
with the committee. Your committee was acutely aware of its respons
ration.
conside
and
dge
knowle
h
not to criticize or to commend without thoroug
objecIn short, its aim was to review the administration and operations as
tively as possible.
Paragraph No. &

ting
In connection with the annual audit performed by a public accoun
suptwo
d
prepare
s
auditor
the
1969,
30,
firm for the fiscal year ended June
. One
plemental reports of operations of the Grand Lodge and its entities
and
Temple
ial
Memor
nia
Califor
the
Lodge,
Grand
the
with
report dealt
the
with
dealt
the California Masonic Foundation and the other report
on
randum
"Memo
titled
were
Masonic Homes of California. The reports
recomthe
and
reports,
The
l."
Contro
l
Accounting Procedures and Interna

280

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mendations contained therein, were reviewed carefully by this committee.
We specifically mention these reports and recommendations as they appear
to have created groundless rumors and baseless speculations throughout segments of this Grand Lodge. Your committee met with a representative of
the public accounting firm and was assured that their memorandum reports
were of a routine nature and followed a policy of submitting recommendations
to all clients after each examination or audit.
Paragraph No. 7

Subsequently, the public accounting firm advised the Grand Master by
letter (Exhibit A) of the conference with this committee and emphasized
that their recommendations were not designed to be critical of the officers
and employees of the various Masonic entities. On March 10, 1970, Grand
Master MacPhee issued a comprehensive twenty-one page commentary,
accompanied by several exhibits, designed to lay unsupported rumors to
rest, his report going to those brethren engaged in the management of the
several Grand Lodge entities mentioned in the so-called memorandum reports
prepared by the public auditors.
Paragraph No. 8

This report is divided into four sections: organization, accounting, internal
control and mechanization.
ORGANIZATION

Paragraph No. 9

The organizational structure of Grand Lodge is complex. It is comprised of the Grand Lodge governed by the officers elected by the Grand
Lodge. The Grand Master in turn appoints trustees to govern the Masonic
Homes, the California Masonic Memorial Temple and the California Masonic Foundation, which become semi-autonomous bodies. The Grand Master
also appoints members of various boards and committees such as the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board, which adds to the complexity of the organization.
Paragraph No. 10

There is no question but that the Grand Master, acting for the Grand
Lodge, as prescribed by the California Masonic Code, determines the general
policy of the entire organization. The trustees of the several constitutional
boards in turn determine the operating policies of their several entities. For
example, the implementation of operating policies of the Memorial Temple
is carried out by its manager who is appointed by the trustees of the Memorial
Temple. Likewise, the operating policies of the Masonic Homes at Decoto
and Covina are carried out by superintendents appointed by the trustees of
the Masonic Homes.
Paragraph No. 11

It also appears clear that it is the intention of Grand Lodge that the
administration of these policies is to be carried out through designated
officers of the Grand Lodge. It was not by accident that the Code provides

281

that the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer also act as the Secretary
and as the Treasurer of constitutional boards.
Paragraph No. 12

od b
ended to make clear
At this point, we recommend that the C e \ a:ia Masonic Memorial
that the Grand Treasurer is the Treasurer of the
o
ts fully in that
Temple in view of the !act that the Grand reasurer ac
capacity at the present time.
ad ed
As supplement to this paragraph Grand Lodge opt
an amen dmen t that .. · "the Code be amended to make
f th
clear that the Grand Treasurer is th~ Tr~urer o
e
California Masonic Memorial Temple m view of th~ fact
that the Grand Treasurer acts fully in that capacity at
the present time".
Paragraph as amended adopted 5/6 vote.

.;ali

Paragraph No. 13

f
f any kind to the California MaYour co~tt~ fi~ds ~:d;e ~:n:l~ve that it is in the best interests
soofnithct~~:f:1:t u~he ~alifor~ia Masonic Foundatiodn be coveredmminetnhde
..
f G d Lodge an we so reco
·
Code as are the other entities o
ra_n tional ~ttem should be followed
We further believe that the same. org::atrustees and the Grand Secretary
whereby the Grand Master appoithnts S
tary and as the Treasurer of the
and the Grand Treasurer act as e ecre
Foundation.
• l"ieu of " as "
An amendment to substitute "for" m
between the words "act" and "the" was adopted by
Grand Lodge.
Paragraph as amended adopted 5/6 vote.
Paragraph No. 14.

beli
that it is a sound requirement that the Grand
Your colllllllttee
eves
·
.
h
· nated for
d the Grand Treasurer be responsible, w en so d est~
!.
:r~7en:1ntation of established policies of the Grand L.odg.e and itsf~:~~:~·
.
ed
is sound and is the only way the orgaruzat1on can
. .
ri::~:Uin:~bservance of good organiz:i.tion contributes more than anything
else to economy and efficiency of operations.

Para~ap: ~o~! administration of the affairs of Grand Lodge and its entities

takes ~:e in the office of the Grand Secretary. Mos~ o.f th::::!~~
.
ed as Grand Lodge employees but some are esigna
designat
l
F the most part these employees work interchangeably
Homes emp ?Y~s. or
d . nated as Masonic Homes employees
for all orgamzauons. The personne1 estg
d b. t the
'bl for California Unemployment Insurance an su Jee
are not eli gi e
·
·
ance than
"zation to a higher rate for workmen's compensation
msur ffi
orgam
.
.
.
k
·
the
Grand
Lodge
o ce.
applies for other employees domg smu1ar wor m

282

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

283

Paragraph No. 18

~d f:bat the personnel is required due to the singular demands of the orga-

Your committee recommends that all clerical-administrative personnel
in the Grand Lodge offices be considered to be employees of the Grand Lodge
and under supervision of the Grand Secretary. Their duties should be defined
by the Grand Secretary and all of said personnel should perform such work
as is administratively necessary for each of the entities of Grand Lodge.
The cost of all clerical-administrative personnel would then be under
review of the Grand Lodge Finance Committee. The entities other than Grand
Lodge would reimburse Grand Lodge pro rata for administrative costs as
determined by the Grand Secretary and approved by the Finance Committee
in consultation with the Grand Secretary and the entities involved.
An amendment was offered by a member of the Policy
and General Purposes Committee making the two Homes
Investigators and a private secretary for the Grand
Master exceptions to the recommendation that all clerical
and administrative personnel in the Grand Lodge offices
be considered to be employees of the Grand Lodge and
under the supervision of the Grand Secretary.
The amendment was not adopted.
On separate action and favorable 5/6 ballot Grand
Lodge directed that "the Homes Investigators remain on
the Homes payroll, responsible to the Homes Trustees,
subject to administration of the Grand Secretary as
delegated by the Homes Trustees".
An additional amendment to insert "for their respective entities" between the words "Lodge" and "pro
rata" in the last sentence of the paragraph was adopted
by Grand Lodge.
Paragraph as amended adopted 5/6 vote.

mzation.

ACCOUNTING

Paragraph No. 17

Directly or indirectly most of the functions of the Grand Lodge office
are involved with accounting. They include maintaining records of nearly
a quarter of a million members, custodianship of over fifty million dollars
of assets, and annual receipts of approximately two and a half million dollars.
Four separate corporations are involved and five general ledgers are required.
Ten employees are engaged in the accounting and membership records six
secretaries are employed, three employees work in the supply room: all
administered through the office of the Grand Secretary. It is truly a large and
complex operation.
Paragraph No. 18

Your committee has reviewed the operations and the functions of the
various employees. We are satisfied that the work is performed economically

Paragraph No. 19

The end result of most accounting work is in reports. We have reviewed
the various statements prepared in the Grand Lodge office and believe most
of them are desirable and necessary. It is recognized that there is danger of
the officers and trustees, or other officials, of Grand Lodge and its entities
making ever increasing requests for reports and statements. It is also well
recognized that, once established, reports and statements are seldom discontinued and tend to proliferate.
Paragraph No. 20

Your committee did not believe that it was essential for it to attempt
to evaluate the present reports and statements. We do recommend that
the necessity of each report be examined by the officers or trustees of the
or~a:nzation that requires it and that outdated or unnecessary reports be
ebnunated. We would suggest also that the frequency of reports be considered
and that semi-annual or quarterly reports, rather than monthly reports be
employed wherever possible.
'
An amendment relating to paragraphs 19 and 20 that
"responsibility rests with the entity involved" was
adopted by Grand Lodge.
Paragraphs as amended adopted 5/6 vote.
Paragraph No. 21

Accounting is performed on a cash basis modified only slightly by recognition of some prepaid items. Under this method of accounting, revenues and
expenses generally are recorded at the time of receipt or payment of cash.
Paragraph No. 22

From time to time recommendations have been made that an accrual
method of accounting be adopted. It has been claimed that satisfactory
measurement of operating results can be achieved only in this manner.
Such a system would require that income be recorded when earned and
that expenses be recorded when incurred. This would, for example, require
recordings of dividend income when declared instead of when received. It
would require amortization and accumulation of bond premium and discount.
Paragraph No. 23

Your committee has considered carefully these suggestions. We point out
that Grand Lodge and its entities are not a business in a normal sense. In
addition, your committee is aware that most non-profit organizations in the
nature of fraternal groups find cash basis accounting adequate and that it is
not considered to be an improper method for such organizations.

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Paragraph No. 24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

285

Par&ifllph No. 29

The principal interest in accounting data for a non-profit organization,
such as ours, is in the flow of cash which is well provided for by our present
method. Accrual accounting necessarily would lead to estimates which may
provide less accuracy and information than the present method. Financial
statements that show income that is not immediately available for use, or
expenses that have not been paid could make unduly difficult the understanding of the financial statements. Your committee has considered the
increased costs of clerical work that accrual accounting would require and
cannot justify the cost.

A recommendation was made that responsibility accounting be adopted.
This involves control of costs by identifying the costs with the person or
department responsible for the incurring of the cost. It is usually considered
as the relationship between the budget and the accounting systems. Your
committee consid.ered the suggestion and believes that adequate responsibility
accounting already exists in the Grand Lodge and the Masonic Homes
through the use of budgets and comparisons of actual with budgeted expenses
by those charged with administrative responsibility.

Paragraph No. 25

Paragraph No. 30

Some recommendations for accrual accounting have been made on the
basis that it would demonstrate a more accurate financial statement for the
Masonic Homes, for example, by considering depreciation, future care commitments and other items primarily of interest to governmental agencies.
Your committee believes that if such information becomes essential, adequate
supplemental reports may be prepared without changing the basic present
methods.
Paragraph No. 26
.. We r~ommend that the accounting method of Grand Lodge and its en-

tities continue to be the present cash basis modified only by certain pre-paid
expenses.
By separate action of Grand Lodge this specific paragraph was adopted by 5/6 vote.
Paragraph No. 27

From time to time recommendations are made and occasionally adopted
that depreciation expense be charged on long term assets and that allowances
for depreciation be shown in the balance sheets. This is desirable in commercial ~terprises but i~ generally understood to t>e meaningless in non-profit
orgamzation accounting. Such a practice would only make sense if funds
were. set aside to an amount equivalent to the depreciation provided. The
~unding of re~rves for depreciation is unnecessary and undesirable and injects
m the financial statements an expense that does not involve the flow of
cash. It should be pointed out that any replacement of depreciable assets
would come from contributions and from reserves derived from other sources.

An employee was recently hired and assigned the responsibility of
maintaining securities investment records and determining the proper receipt
of dividends and other income. We believe that this is a necessary position
required to watch over the records of almost thirty-three million dollars in
securities and we further believe that an adequate substitute job cannot be
done by the custodian bank or the public auditors.
Paragraph No. 31

Prior to 1965, detailed property records were not maintained in the
accounting records though details of acquisitions and retirements since 1965
are being kept. Your committee believes that such records are desirable as a
control over some thirteen million dollars of property. Such records are
particularly desirable to determine insurable values and to support fire and
other losses.
Paragraph No. 32

We recommend that the Grand Lodge obtain a current re-appraisal of
land, buildings, furniture and equipment of Grand Lodge and its entities, and
that, using the appraisal as a base, detailed records be maintained of such
property including acquisitions and retirements.
An amendment relating to paragraphs 31 and 32 that
"in view of the proposed redevelopment at Union City
and the redevelopment being concluded at Covina the
Masonic Homes Incorporation should be excluded" was
not adopted by Grand Lodge.
Thereafter by action of Grand Lodge the recommendation in paragraph 32
was not adopted.

Paragraph No. 28

Your committee recommends that depreciation not be charged on the
books of any of the entities of Grand Lodge.
By separate action of Grand Lodge this specific paragraph was not adopted. Thus the choice of action on this
matter is left to the "entities involved".

Paragraph No. 33

A recommendation was made concerning allocating of income directly
to expenses in some instances and the allocating of expenses from one unit
to another. We believe that expenses should not be reduced by the netting
of amounts thereby obscuring the actual total expenses; total expenses
should be available whether reported in detail or not.

286

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

287

Paragraph No. 34

Paragraph No. 39

During our survey we noted that nominal payments to the Grand
Lecturer and Grand Tiler, as authorized by the California Masonic Code
have been continued over the years without regard to applicable Federal and
State tax regulations. We recommend that this matter he referred to the
Grand Lodge Committee on Taxation for review and clarification.
It was reported that no action was necessary with
respect to this paragraph as the matters referred to had
already been corrected.

Recommendations have been made concerning internal control and your
committee has reviewed the existing internal control. Reviewed were the
three main systems required consisting of Cash Receipts and Disbursements,
Purchasing and Receiving and Payroll.

Paragraph No. 35

In our study of Grand Lodge and its entities, we observed that the
Grand Lodge Committee on Taxation has concerned itself primarily in the
area of payroll tax. The ever increasing and more complex general tax regulations, Federal and State, makes it essential that our taxation committee's
functions be expanded to include all types of taxation and we so recommend.
Such activity should prove invaluable to the Grand Master and Grand Secretary in the administration of their duties.
Paragraph recommendations adopted 5/6 vote.
Paragraph No. 36
Y~u: committee recognizes that those charged with operating policies
of entities of the Grand Lodge are, perhaps, more familiar than others with
problems affecting their operations and the need for adequate accounting
and other records to enable them to function to the best degree. However,
when changes are contemplated the effect on and any balance or imbalance
with the general Grand Lodge accounting system must be considered.

Paragraph No. 37

In concluding this section of the report dealing with accounting, your
committee strongly endorses the implication in our law that the Grand
Secretary, as the chief administrative officer, is, and should be, responsible
for the accounting of Grand Lodge and all of its entities. We believe further
that centralized accounting is a necessity for comparable information and
particularly for economy. Additionally, we believe that uniformity of accounting methods between all entities is all important and must be maintained.
INTERNAL CONTROL

Paragraph No. 38

In an organization the size of Grand Lodge and its entities, with the
substantial assets it owns, sound internal control is essential. Internal control
involves the methods and procedures adopted to safeguard the assets, produce
accurate accounting data, contribute to efficient operation, and encourage
adherence to managerial policies.

Paragraph No. 40

Your committee finds that the administration is alert to the important
principles of internal control that responsibility for a sequence of related
transactions should be divided among different persons. We believe that
a practical and realistic observance of internal control exists in the three
main systems and your committee observed a constant review with change
and improvement taking place as circumstances have changed.
Paragraph No. 41

Your committee made a careful review of our Code which sets forth
responsibilities for the custody of funds and securities. We find that in most
respects an excellent system of internal control is already provided. The
code provides:
( 1) It shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary to collect all
moneys due the Grand Lodge, keep a correct account thereof
in proper banks, and pay the said money, within ten days
after its receipt to the Grand Treasurer.
( 2) It shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary to establish in
some bank an operating fund in such amount as the Grand
Master may approve, from which he shall pay such bills,
claims and demands upon the Grand Lodge.
( 3) It shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary to draw warrants
upon the Grand Treasurer for all appropriations by the Grand
Lodge, for all orders of the Grand Master to meet cases of emergency that may arise in a recess of the Grand Lodge, and for
reimbursement of the operating fund for such amounts as have
been disbursed in payment of bills, claims and demands upon
the Grand Lodge, but in the presentations of claims for reimbursement of personal expenses, approval of such claims must be
given by the Audit Committee prior to payment thereof.
(4) It shall be the duty of the Grand Treasurer to receive all moneys
belonging to the Grand Lodge from the Grand Secretary, receipt
therefor, keep proper books of account thereof, and immediately
upon receipt of said moneys, to deposit same to the credit of
Grand Lodge, in a bank or banks selected by the Grand Treasurer with the approval of the Grand Master. Funds on deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Grand Treasurer, or in case of his
inability or unavailability, by . the Grand Master or Deputy
Grand Master and the Grand Secretary.

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(5) It shall be the duty of the Grand Treasurer to take charge
of all other property of Grand Lodge, except as provided in
Sections 1SO and 221 of the Ordinances, and to keep an accurate
account thereof; bonds and other securities shall be deposited
with a bank or trust company or in safe deposit vaults, selected
as provided in sub-section 1 of this section; and such securities, excepting bearer securities, shall be withdrawn from such
depository only on the written order of the Grand Treasurer,
and in case of bearer securities, only on the written order of
the Grand Treasurer, approved by the Grand Master, Deputy
Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden or Junior Grand Warden,
or in the case of the absence or inability of the Grand Treasurer
to act, by any of the foregoing Grand Officers and the Grand
Secretary.
(6) The Grand Treasurer may, with the approval of the Grand
Master, appoint an Asfilstant Grand Treasurer, for who~e official acts he shall be responsible, and who shall be conSidered
an appointed officer of the Grand Lodge and who shall perform
such duties as may be prescribed by the Grand Treasurer.
(7) The Grand Master in consultation with the Grand Treasurer
shall designate certified public accountants whose duty it shall be
to examine the financial statements of Grand Lodge, the Masonic
Homes of California, and the California Masonic Memorial
Temple in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards1 and accordingly such examination shall include such
tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as are considered necessary by them in the circumstances. The auditor shall call to the attention of the Grand
Master or Grand Treasurer such items as are not recorded in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

equal fon:e to the other entities of Grand Lodge where the ~e individuals
serve, or should serve, as Secretary and as Treasurer by law.
Paragraph No. 44

Your committee does not suggest that major deviations from the Code
exist but has observed various minor alternatives which have developed
which could weaken the internal controls provided. As an example, the
auditors made an observation on the control of the facsimile signature plate
used in the check signing machine. Actually, according to the Code, there
is no reason for the Grand Treasurer to have a facsimile plate in the Grand
Lodge office. The Grand Secretary has the duty of paying all bills from
the operating fund. The Grand Treasurer or the Assistant Grand Treasure
would periodically sign checks to reimburse the operating funds.
Paragraph No. 45

Auditors have made observations concerning one weakness in internal
control concerning membership of the Grand Treasurer on the Investment
Committee. They were concerned about too much authority being centered
in one individual. They pointed out in their memorandum report that the
Grand Treasurer, as a member of the Investment Committee, can implement authorized security transactions, can sign checks in payment for same,
and is associated with an investment firm through which some of the security
transactions have been carried out.
Paragraph No. 46

Over the many years of its existence, the Grand Lodge of California has
been singularly blessed with a continuing succession of great Masons, leaders
in the business and financial worlds, who have lent their talents to our Grand
Lodge in the office of Grand Treasurer and as investment counsellors. None
of our leaders of the past stand higher than our present Grand Treasurer
who has given so much and so freely of himself to Masonry and to this
Grand Lodge.

Paragraph No. 42

Your committee is convinced that the Code provides excellent internal
control with responsibilities soundly divided between the Grand Treasurer
and the Grand Secretary, subject always to review by auditors. Further,
we recommend that the procedures set forth in the Code be strictly adhered
to and not be deviated from for convenience or otherwise and, if for any
reason the Code is not operable it should be changed.
Paragraph 42 deals with adherence to procedures set
out in California Masonic Code. No formal vote taken
as no action was required.
Paragraph No. 43

289

•

Your committee believes that by all implication where the Code provides
the duties of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer they apply with

Paragraph No. 47

The comments of the public auditors bear no personal connotations as
to any of our fine Grand Lodge staff of employees or to Grand Lodge officers.
The comments were solely on a technical point - that of the possibility of
conflicting interest at some future time. We must agree that the comments
of the public auditors point up a weakness in internal control and an unfair
position in which to place any Grand Treasurer.
Paragraph No. 48

Our general review points up an organizational problem which gives

this committee concern and that is in the Code reference to the Investment

Conunittee. The section of the Code which creates such a committee is in a
section having to do with the Endowment Board. The Investment Committee as now constituted directs not only the investments in the Masonic

290

PROCEEDINGS OP' THE

GRAND LODGE OP' CALIFORNIA

Homes Endowment Fund but those of the Grand Lodge as well. In the
judgment of your committee it is proper that the Investment Committee
should act on all investments of the Grand Lodge and all entities including
the California Masonic Memorial Temple and the California Masonic Foundation.
Paragraphs number 49 through 53 were read and considered jointly.

(2) That the Investment Committee be comprised of
six members, three of whom would be appointed by the

Grand Master each for three-year terms, two being appointed each, year, the basic concept being that the
'appointee' should be selected with experience and background in the broad field of investment. Such appointments would not preclude representations from the Masonic Homes Board, Foundation, or Endowment Board,
but representation would not be a requirement."
The amended and supplemented paragraphs were
then adopted 5/6 vote.

Paragraph No. 49

Your committee recommends that the Code be revised to provide an
Investment Committee as a standing committee of Grand Lodge. This
standing committee should be charged with providing direction of all security
investments of Grand Lodge and its entities. The committee should provMlt
membership from the various entities; however, as discussed elsewhere, ill
the interest of internal control the committee recommends that the positions
of Grand Treasurer and Assistant Grand Treasurer not presuppose member..
ship on the Investment Committee.
Paragraph No. 50

We recommend that the Investment Committee be comprised of five
members, three of whom would be appointed by the Grand Master. It is
essentially necessary at all times that continuing supervision be exercised
over our sizeable security portfolio. Accordingly, we recommend staggered
term appointments be provided.
Paragraph No. 51

The three appointees should be selected with experience and backgro~
in the broad field of investments. Two of these appointees should be designated Chairman and Vice Chairman, respectively by the Grand Master.
Paragraph No. 52

The other two members would be from the Board of Trustees of tbe
Masonic Homes of California and the Board of Directors of the California
Masonic Foundation.
Paragraph No. 53

The Grand Secretary would serve as secretary to the Investment Com·
mittee, attend its meetings, keep its minutes and handle correspondeq
A supplement to paragraph 49 was proposed ~t
"Masonic Lodges, Temple Associations, and MasoDiO
cemeteries be deleted from consideration as 'single entities' of Grand Lodge".
The supplement was adopted.
Grand Lodge by separate action adopted the follo1'·
ing:
" ( 1) the positions of Grand Treasurer and Assistalit
Grand Treasurer do not presuppose membership on tbe
Committee.

291

Paragraph No. 54

Your committee considered the Retirement Fund to be an entity which

was involved financially with Grand Lodge and accordingly reviewed its
eperations. The Retirement Fund, originally created for the benefit of employees of the Masonic Homes of California was subsequently amended to
provide retirement benefits for employees of the Grand Lodge and other
of its entities. It is now operated as a common fund to provide pensions
for those covered under the terms of the Retirement Plan and Trust Agreement. As such we believe a more correct designation of the Plan would be
the Grand Lodge Retirement Income Plan and we so recommend. The fund
is audited by public accountants designated by Grand Lodge. The acturial
work is performed by actuaries designated by the Retirement Pension Plan
Ccimmittee. The trustee bank has been in complete charge of investing the
fund ~ounting to approximately one million dollars.
An amendment that the designation of the Retirement Plan be known as the Grand Lodge Retirement
Income Plan was adopted.
Paragraph as amended was adopted 5/6 vote.
Pani1r1ph No. 55

~ent only token consultation has been made by the bank with Grand
todge or its entities in regard to security transactions. We therefore recomthat consideration be given to the authorization of the Investment
ttee t~ actively supervise the investments and to make recommendati
~-c:oncernmg the trustee's performance to the Retirement Pension Plan
-..unittee and to the Grand Lodge.
A supplement to this paragraph was adopted that
"consideration be given to the authorizing of the Investment Committee to actively supervise the investments
and make recommendations concerning the Trustees'
performance to the Retirement Pension Plan Committee
and to the Grand Lodge".
Paragraph as supplemented adopted 5/6 vote.

::::u

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Paragraph No. 56

Your committee has read an interim report of the Grand Lodge Audit
Committee in which is recommended that the In-Dept h Study Committee
consider the question as to whether an Audit Committee will be necessar
y
after the end of the current Masonic year. The Audit Committee points out
that with regulations clearly setting forth definite ceilings on reimbursable
expenses adopted by Grand Lodge at the 1969 Annual Communication
auditing of expense claims could be performed under the direction of th~
Grand Secretary as are all other types of expense which are not submitte
d
to the Audit Committee for approval. The Audit Committee pointed out
further that auditing of personal expense claims through the Grand Secretary's staff would expedite their handling and that to continue a separate
committee to perform only one function in the accounting routine constituted
an unnecessary and parallel duplication.
Paragraph No. 57

We agree that the work of the Audit Committee is a duplication of function and suggest that if special attentio n is desirable in the audit of any type
of expense that the public auditors be requested administratively to so extend
their audit tests. We are also of the opinion that a program of test checks
could be performed by the Finance Committee to insure conformity with
Grand Lodge regulations. In times past, test checks by members of the
Finance Committee were valuable in giving them a more complete understanding of the over-all financial picture of Grand Lodge.
Paragraph No. 58

In concluding these comments on internal control, your committee wants
it to be known that no serious deficiencies were observed. There is administrative respect for internal control and constant attentio n is being given to it.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

293

Paragraph No. 81

We have been impr~ with the sound approac h of the Grand Lodge
staff to ~e problems of mechanization. It was found that the Grand Secretary,
the ~stant Grand ~ecntary and the Chief Accounting Officer are well
versed m data processmg anlf have been considering machines, methods and
costs for a number of years.
Paragraph No. 62

We were further impressed wiftt the records already handled by data
processing methods which include data on endoW'IUent fund contributions
accounts payable distributions and expense SUinllllr.l"ies for the Masoni~
Homes. The mailing list for the California Freemason is prepared by modem
data processing methods. The billing of the annual returm is machine calculated and printed. At the present time, installation is in pr~ess for machine
recording of all cash receip~.
Paragraph No. 63

The present program of careful analysis and cautious progress is ~und
and should result in successful and economical development. Grand Lod~ is
indebted to its administration in that it did not become involved with ah
impetuous and costly program common to so many data processing installations.
Paragraph No. 64

Your committee recommends that funds be made available for outside
consultants if or when they appear to be desirable and that, at a proper time,
Grand Lodge might consider a special committee of its members knowledgeable in data processing to assist in further development.
Recommendations of this specific paragrap h adopted 5/6 vote.

MECHAN IZATION

SUMMARY

Paragraph No. 59

Paragraph No. 65

The volume of accounting transactions and the requirements for membership information suggests that modern data processing methods may be used
to advanta ge by the Grand Lodge. Such suggestions have been made and
there may have been implied criticism that a mechanization program has
not been further advanced.

This committee was charged by this Grand Lodge to make a study toward
effecting any possible economy or increased efficiency.

Paragraph No. 60

Your committee is well aware that data processing by modem electronic
equipment is a difficult and very expensive program. It would be relativel
y
easy to rush such a program into being; however, the risk of failure is real
and the waste of large development costs is possible. Successful data processing installations are the result of excruciating planning. It should also
be apprecia ted that such installations do not generally result in savings of
personnel or money, but they may contribu te operating advantages.

Paragraph No. 66

Your committee believes that this report conclusively illustrates that
economy and efficiency can only derive from a cohesive organization of
Grand Lodge and its entities. Under the Code, there can be but one Grand
Master and he with ultimate power over Grand Lodge and all entities. There
can be but one financial officer, the treasurer, responsible for all the cash
and other designated property of Grand Lodge and all entities. There can be
~ut one administrative officer, the secretary, responsible for the administratio~ ?f the Grand Lodge office including accounting for Grand Lodge
and all
e!ltities. The functions and responsibilities of these elected officers cannot be
by.passed or nullified by non-observance of the Code requirements.

294

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Paragraph No. 67

Anything other than this cohesive organization is difficult to contemplate
and could only result in waste, inefficiency and probably chaos.
Paragraph No. 68

Fortunately this concept of our organization has been recognized and
observed by the brethren working together In harmony even when it has
not been required by the regulations written into our Code.
Paragraph No. 69

This, your committee believes to be of the utmost importance. It is
entirely inconceivable to think in terms of a separate accounting method
for each entity of Grand Lodge. It would make mechanization infeasible
if our records wete not maintained on a uniform basis. Our costs would
swell if each of the entities employed its own administrative-clerical personnel.
We would elll.barrass ourselves if we had conflicting investment policies.
There are lhnumerable other examples, some of which are discussed in our
report.
P8'dgraph No. 70

And so, in summary, we recommend that to make all things possible
it be the policy of this Grand Lodge to recognize that all of the entities are
integral parts of the whole with common management represented by the
Grand Master under the authority granted him by the Code and a maximum
of common administration represented by the elected Grand Treasurer and
the Grand Secretary together with other common functions such as investment
control and retirement plans.
Paragraph No. 71

We also recommend that all officers, trustees, and boards and committees,
elected or appointed by the Grand Master, be made cognizant that their
activities are a part only of a greater whole and that harmony must always
be preserved in the interrelationships that exist.
Paragraphs 70 and 71 were considered jointly by
Grand Lodge. The Committee on Policy and General
Purposes offered the amendment to insert the word "office" between the words "common" and "administration"
in paragraph 70. It expressed its concurrence with the
principles set out in the paragraphs.
The amendment was adopted 5/6 vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes thereafter submitted the
following supplement for action by Grand Lodge.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, in its discussions concerning the In-Depth Study Committee Report, found that it was frequently
directing its attention to what it regards as a fundamental policy for the
Grand Lodge organizational pattern. This policy is that the responsibility

295

of the Grand Treasurer and of the Grand Secretary, in their individual relationship to the governing boards of the various entities of Grand Lodge, is to
provide the facilities of their office for service to the boards.
It is not contemplated that the Grand Treasurer or the Grand Secretary
are to be members of the various Boards which they serve in their respective
capacities as Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary.
We believe that full understanding of this fundamental principal is essential for assurance of thorough, conscientious and efficient execution of all
of the duties and responsibilities of the members of the various governing
boards and of the elected Grand Lodge officers involved.
The supplement was adopted.
Paragraphs 70 and 71 adopted as amended and supplemented 5/6 vote.
CONCLUSION

Paragraph No. 72

In concluding this report, your committee would be remiss if it did not
report the utmost cooperation of all the officers and employees of Grand
Lodge.
Paragraph No. 73

Your committee found the administration and operation of Grand Lodge
and its entities to be in the hands of loyal and devoted people, sincerely
attempting to do a good job, willing and anxious to do a better job whenever
possible.
Respectfully submitted,
W. STANLEY DAVIS, Chairman
GUY B. MIZE
JAMES B. CRAVEN
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER,
PHIL N. MYERS, Consultant
Consultant
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, on Finance, and on Taxation; to the Boards of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes and California Masonic Memorial Temple, and the Board of Directors
of the California Masonic Foundation.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
In reporting to Grand Lodge this committee recommended that, because
of the wide scope of the report, action by Grand Lodge on it be deferred
until the 1971 Annual Communication. Thereupon, by Grand Lodge action
and concurrence in the recommendation by the committees and boards to
which it had been referred, the recommendation was adopted.
The Grand Master thereupon, with oral concurrence by Deputy Grand
Master Huebner, ruled that "the present procedures of Grand Lodge and its
entities dealt with in the report shall be continued in practice pending the
study undertaken by all interested Grand Lodge entities."
The total amended and supplemented report was adopted 5/6 vote.

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF RETIREMENT PENSION PLAN COMMITTEE

$108,663 and the average annual salary also increased by 4.5% from $6,934
to $7,244. The number of retired members increased from 16 to 17 and
annual pensions being paid from $21,128 to $21,990.
As of October 1, 1961, employer pension obligations for covered employees were fully funded when Grand Lodge approved payment of the
liability then existing for past service of Grand Lodge employees. Employee
contributions of 3% per annum on regular salary, plus the employer contributions determined from time to time by the actuaries, together with gains
from investments are designed to keep the Plan on a sound financial basis
from year to year.
The required increase in the employer contribution rate last year, based
on 1969 activities, was attributable, as reported, to a somewhat unsettled
securities market and to investment policies carried out by the Trustee for
the Plan which caused substantial losses on securities transactions during
1969.
A considerable improvement is noted in reviewing the Trustee's management of the Plan for the year 1970, although securities operations during
the year resulted in a net loss of $10,395.
Under provisions of the Trust Agreement which accompanies the Pension
Plan, the Trustee is given the authority to ''hold, invest, reinvest, manage
and administer the Fund in accordance with the Plan." However, there is
the provision in the Trust Agreement, under the right to modify, alter or
amend the Plan and Trust Agreement as reserved by the Masonic Homes of
California, in whose name the Plan and Trust Agreement were originally
drawn, that the Retirement Pension Plan Committee shall have the right
to direct the Trustee in the investing and reinvesting of funds owned by the
Plan. Under this authority, your committee has advised the Trustee that
it is our desire and intent to place the making of investments owned by
the Plan in the hands of the Investment Committee of Grand Lodge, with
the Trustee to continue providing all other functions set out in the Plan
and the Trust Agreement.
Your committee now presents for your consideration changes in the Plan
which we recommend as being fair and essential for the many employees
who serve us in so many capacities.
1. Add death benefit after retirement of return of excess of own contribution with interest over amount received as pension.
2. Change allowance for room and board at the Homes as stipulated
in the Plan so that allowances actually ·used since January 1, 1971
be considered as compensation for pension benefit and contribution
purposes.
3. Change period for selection of optional benefit from 1 year to 60 days.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F & A. M. of California:
Pursuant to comments in our report of last year, considerable study has
been given during the current Grand Lodge year to proposals designed to
bring our Retirement Income Plan up-to-date and in keeping with current
concepts of employee benefits.
Early in the year, a meeting was held with our actuaries to review the
Plan and lay out a series of suggested revisions, or amendments, to be considered by the entire committee.
Meetings of the committee, attended by all members, were held on
February 12, 1971, May 27, 1971 and August 12, 1971.
In addition, the Masonic Homes of California, represented on the committee by Trustees Campbell, Odle and Ebbage, has concurred in the recommendations being offered for revisions in the Plan relating to employee
benefits, the change in its name and for changes in trustee management.
During the year, the committee received reports of the pending retirement of four employees of the Masonic Homes during 1971 and of two
employees of the Grand Lodge staff, these being regular retirements due to
the employees reaching the age of 65 years. In the case of Brother William C.
Brouillard, who became a member of the Grand Lodge office staff after many
years of service to Masonry in the Chico area, including that of Inspector
approval was granted to continuance of employment, subject to periodi~
review by the Grand Secretary.

It is also noted that Mrs. Maria Workman, after 22 years of loyal

ser~ce as field agent for the Masonic Homes of California, took early

retirement as of December 31, 1970.
Additionally, shortly after the close of the Grand Lodge fiscal year, our
beloved Brother, Gail H. David, a Past Master of Piedmont Lodge, No. 521,
now Orinda ~dge, and superintendent at the Home at Decoto for 17 years,
took early retirement for reasons of health and is now residing in Sun City
Arizona.
'

An analysis of the report prepared by the actuaries for the calendar year,
1970, shows that the number of covered, or active, members for the Masonic
Homes of California was 106, the same as for the preceeding year. Annual
covered payroll for these employees was $675,419, an increase of almost
$50,000, or 7.4%, over the preceeding year. The annual average salary
increased from $5,902 to $6,3 72. There was an increase in number of retired
members from 2 7 to 30 and the total annual pensions being paid increased
from $14,651 to $19,300.
For the Grand Lodge and its component agencies, the number of covered
or active members remained the same as for the preceding year, a total of
15. Annual covered payroll for these employees increased by 4.5% to

.

297

A further change which will not affect employees is that of a change

in the name of the Plan. Your committee does not feel that the present

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

name of the Plan is fully descriptive of the employees who are
covered
inasmuch as employees of Grand Lodge and other component organiz
ations
are included in the Plan.
We recommend that the name of the Plan be changed from Masoni
c
Homes of California Retirement Income Plan to California Masoni
c Retirement Plan.
To maintain the Plan in sound financial condition, continuing the
employee contribution rate of 3%, assuming a 4% return on investments,
and
considering the portfolio of investments at cost value on December 31,
1970,
our actuaries have calculated an employer's contribution rate this
year of
9.20% for the Masonic Homes of California and 10.lOo/o for Grand
Lodge
and its component organizations.
These employer contribution rates compare with 10.09% for the Masoni
c
Homes and 11.07% for Grand Lodge and its components last year.
We suggest, in view of additional proposals to be considered by
the
committee during the ensuing Grand Lodge year, with extra meeting
s required, that an appropriation of $600 be granted to cover operating
expenses
of the committee.

papers. This will continue through Friday afternoon. The Commi
ttee is
delighted with the excellent reception given by the local news represe
ntatives
and feels that this fine interest will last for years to come if properl
y
pirsued .
This Committee, in the future, will be able to assist Lodges in plannin
g
for the desired publicity when staging important events as Installa
tions,
Anniversaries and related community projects.
The proposed public information data calls for inspired action to develop
and maintain orderly and progressive relations with the key communication
s
centers of our state and Hawaii.
Respectfully submitted,
MORRIS C. Guss, Chairman
HUGH J. CAMERON
WARREN D. HANSON
KERN H. COPELAND
NILES o. Mu.I.AR, JR.
WILLIA M H. LAMBERT
DONAL D L. BATTEN
]ACK PETTrr
.ALFRED E. HOPKINS
LLoYD R. TROUT
F. GLENDON SMYTHE
GAREY B. WEIBEL
NICK A. VACCARIELLO
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

Respectfully submitted,

GUY B. MIZE, Chairman
DONALD G. CAMPB ELL
EDWARD T. MANCU SO

299

w.

ALFRED
ODLE
RAYMOND A EBBAGE

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC INFORMATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
This committee, during the past Masonic year, was busy formula
ting
state-wide plans to develop a philosophy of workable suggestions
to keep
Masonic activities in the foreground, in good taste, of recognized media
of
publications and communications.
A large responsibility for enlightening public opinion rests with the newspaper and television stations of California. Preliminary steps have been
taken
to acquaint all of the daily and bi-weekly newspapers in the state
as well
as major TV stations, of our future program of proper community
public
relations regarding any Masonic activity, personality and institution.
Masonic events enjoyed a wide approval of public opinion the past
year
due to efforts of the Committee as shown by clippings received,
ranging
fro~ cover~ge of Grand Lodge Communications, corners
tone laying ceremomes, anmversary observances of Lodges, as well as Public Schools
Week,
Constitution Observances and Youth Activities week.
At this session your Committee is very active with news media rel~
every day, starting last Sunday. The results you have witnessed in the
local

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Chairman of the Insurance Committee informs the Most Worshi
pful
Grand Master that in accordance with practice of prior years the Chairm
an
has furnished the Grand Master with activities and conclusions of the Committee which he may desire to include in his Annual Report. This is provide
d
to explain absence of a formal report of this Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES T. FARR, JR., Chairman
ELMER C. GUNTH ER
JoHN R. McKEE
GEORGE H. MOHR
GERALD W. PAGE
GEORGE E. FRANK

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report for
the
122nd Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
We desire to express our appreciation to the Grand Secretary, the
Assistant Grand Secretary and the staff for its assistance to us.

300

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

We respectfully report that of the 701 Chartered Lodges 658 are represented. The total registration is made up as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers •.•...•.• ........•. •...••••• .•••..... •..
28
Past Grand Masters .....•••.• ••••••••• ....•••••• ••••••.•• •.•
10
Past Grand Lecturers ......••. ......•... ......••• .......•• •.•
1
Officers and Representatives .•......• ...•..•.. ........•• ..•••. 1227
Past Masters, including the following ...•.•... .•..•..•. ..•...•.. 1236
Inspectors • . • . . • . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 149
Committeemen . . . . . • • • . • • • . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • • . . . • • . 216
P.M.-Secretaries . . • . . • • . . • . • . . . • . • . . . . . . • . • . • . . • . • • 193
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions •.....••. ..•.....• .........
7
Grand Lodge Officers and Past Masters of other Jurisdictions
(including 4 Past Grand Masters) . . . • . . . . • . . . • . • . • • . • • . • . . .
14
TOTAL . . . • . .• . . • . • . •• •• • . . • . • . • . . . • . • .• ••• • 2523
Master Masons (including 66 Secretaries) . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . •
427
GRAND TOTAL . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . • 2950
Respectfully submitted,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

The payroll has been checked with the registration records as submitted
to us by the Committee on Credentials, and the amounts required to meet the
transportat ion costs for the 1971 Annual Communicaion are as follows:
Past Grand Masters (not on committees) ••..•..• $ 524.00
Representatives of Lodges . . . . . . . . • • . . • . . . • • • • 3 7,886.68
Total . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . • • . . $38,410.68
Checks will be ready for distribution at the Registration Desk on Friday
morning immediately following the election of the Junior Grand Warden.
Brethren, if you are the Master or Warden representing your Lodge, or the
Elected Representative of your Lodge, the Pay of Members Committee
urgently requests you to pickup your check.
Arrangements have been made so that those who desire to cash their
checks may do so at the United California Bank, Fairmont Hotel. Your
Grand Lodge Credentials will serve as suitable identification.
Respectfully submitted,

GLEN GLADSON, Chairman
HARRY F. LUTTICKEN
JOHN
WHITP'IELD
STANFORD FONG
GEORGE D. SHEPARD
DOMINIC
PAONESSA
RUPERT R. TOWELL

DEAN H. DEWHURST
JACOB M. KARTZINEL
EDWARD A. FROMSKY

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

c.

c.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report covering the 122nd Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or in his absence,
the ranking Warden, or in the absence of the Master and Wardens, the duly
Elected Representative and Past Grand Masters, if they attend Grand Lodge
in such capacity only.
Mileage from the various points within the State of California to San
Francisco has been taken from the published records of the California State
Automobile Association. Mileage from points in the State of Hawaii to San
Francisco has been taken from the published records of air lines, in accordance with Sections 174 and 176, California Masonic Code. No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity.
Compensation of members from the State of California has been computed
on the basis of ten ( 10) cents per mile, the rate fixed by the Committee on
Finance. Compensation of members from the State of Hawaii has been
figured on the basis of published first class round trip air rates of regularly
scheduled major airlines, from Honolulu to San Francisco, plus inter-island
air fare to Honolulu when necessary.

301

E. LLOYD HANSON, Chairman
TED R. SIEMS
}AMES R. VAUGHN
LLOYD E. WIGGS

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON HISTORICAL SITE
RESTORATION AND PRESERVATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Under the appointme nt and directive of our Grand Master M. W.
Herbert A. Huebner, the committee has endeavored to:
1. Study the entire matter of Grand Lodge responsibility and participation in the area of historical site, restoration and preservatio n;
2. Specifically to examine the proposal for the restoration of the Masonic
Temple of Quitman Lodge No. 88 at North Bloom.field, California
(Malakoff Diggins State Historical Park).
3. To make a full report, including a review of any past and present
participati on in connection with historical sites, financial, and other
contractua l arrangements in effect, and to recommend an overall
Grand Lodge policy; and to submit a detailed plan, in harmony
with the policy recommended for the proposed restoration and
preservation of the temple at North Bloomfield.
We will report on sub-paragr aph 3 by saying that in the past the old
Masonic Hall in Los Angeles was restored primarily by the State of
California with the Grand Lodge participati ng by spending a very small

302

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

amount. Curren tly one Lodge meets in the building and pays rent.
Grand
Lodge appropriates a yearly sum for janitorial services and mainten
ance
which amounts to about $1,500 a year.
Columbia Temple was financed by direct appropriation from
Grand
Lodge in the amount of $45,884 which came from the general
reserves.
Grand Lodge appropriates a yearly sum for maintenance at an average
cost
of $1,300 per year, which includes $800 per year for the custodian.
We recommend the following as a Grand Lodge Policy:
I. Grand Lodge may finance the rebuilding or restoration of an
historic
Masonic Temple when passed by resolution at the Annual Communication, the historic value having been previously determined by
a
Grand Lodge committee appointed by the Grand Master.
2. That Grand Lodge establish a revolving fund in an amount sufficie
nt
to be used for site restoration, reconstruction and displays. That
members may be permitted to contribute voluntarily toward these
reconstruction and display costs, and that these monies be returne
d
to the revolving fund. Other than cases of extreme disaster the
financing of one of these projects will be a "one time only" expenditure.
3. When projects of this nature located within the boundaries of a
state
park, national park, national monument or other publicly owned
property, are financed by Grand Lodge, the completed building will
be deeded over. t~. the public agency involved, and said agency will
assume respoDSibility for operation, maintenance, and security.
4. ~he Masonic Fratern ity .wiil have free use of the building at
any
time by advance reservation. The public agency may conduct guided
tou;-;. ~or the gen~ral public through the Masonic Temple, when such
activities do not interfere with Masonic use for which advance reservations have been made.
5. The Inspector of the Masonic district wherein the restored Masoni
c
Temple is located will appoint personnel to administer reservations
for u~ thereof, and function as liaison with the agency concerned.
6. Grand Lodge will appoint a committee to collect Masonic regalia
paraphemali~ and artifacts for development of a representative lodg~
room and display of Masonic memorabilia. The interpretation and
related exhibits shall project the theme of the contribution of the
Masonic Fr~ternity to the life style, social and cultural aspects
of
the commumty and or state.
7. Areas in which there are no buildings and no reconstruction planned
b~t sai~ area has an interpretation center or museum, Grand Lodg~
will assist, upon request from the proper authorities in the Collection
and stocking of a booth and or exhibit.
Realizing the role that Masonry has played in the history of our
great
state we can forsee that in the future other worthy proposals may
be sub-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

303

mitted to Grand Lodge. This committee recommends that any future
committee appointed to investigate a proposed site for restoration be guided
by
the principle that such restoration should be for the benefit and advanc
ement
of .Freemasonry. It may take several years to set up guide lines
but this
should be done properly and objectively.
·
To reply to sub-paragraph 2 pertaining to Quitman Lodge No. 88
and
its restoration.
North Bloomfield is in the Mother Lode country which is rich in Masoni
c
Lore. This town (North Bloomfield, California) and lodge site
is in the
Malakoff Diggins State Historical Park. During the gold rush days
this
was the site of a large placer mining operation.
The community of North Bloomfield was the adjacent town that
at its
peak had a population of about 1,000. Quitman Lodge No. 88
received
dispensation under the name of Unity Lodge on July 27, 1855.
It was
chartered as Quitman Lodge on May 8, 1856. It took its new name
from
John A. Quitman, P.G.M. of Mississippi. It first met in Orleans
Flat in
Nevada County. When the Diggings paid out there, it moved to
Moore's
Flat where it met until 1887. As the gold again ran out, the Lodge
moved
to North Bloomfield, which was about five miles to the southwest.
It stayed
at North Bloomfield until the gold of the Malakoff ran out. In 1910,
because
of small membership, Quitman Lodge consolidated with Nevada Lodge
No. 13.
The State of California, in making this site a state park, has marked
up the
site of many of the early buildings in North Bloomfield. The site of
Quitman
Lodge has been duly marked. There is nothing left of the building
, except
two or three foundation poles.
At the present time the State Depart ment of Parks and Recreation
has
authorized the restoration of the town of North Bloomfield to
its "Gold
Rush" eloquence. An old church is in the process of being built. The
general
store is being restored. There is a museum depicting scenes and display
ing
artifacts of that era. This has been done mostly with private or institut
ional
funds. It is the understanding of this committee that little or no state
funds
are to be available in the near future for any of these projects.
Many Masons are petitioning that Quitman Lodge be rebuilt and
restored on its original site in North Bloomfield. Research has develop
ed that
the original building was a two-story wood frame building. The first
floor
contained the commercial enterprise, a drugstore, with all the
lodge facilities being on the second floor. The estimated cost of reconstruction
is
between $60,000-$75,000, which includes facilities and displays.
Brother Charlie Gaus, now a member of Nevada Lodge No. 13,
was
the last man raised in Quitman Lodge No. 88 in 1909 and 1910.
He is 92
Years of age and still living in North Bloomfield.
The major problem in considering a recommendation to restore
this
lodge hall, regardless of our personal desires or wishes, is that
the park
does not own the land or site upon which the building would be constru
cted.
Rather it is owned by a private individual. While current negotia
tions are

305

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in progress for obtaining this land or site, this has not been accomplished
to date. Until such time as the Park obtains ownership of the building site,
your committee cannot recommend any action from Grand Lodge.
Access to the Malakoff Diggins State Park is through Nevada City,
California by two routes.
The shortest is 14 miles, accessible by automobile. About one half the
distance is by paved road, the balance by dirt road. The turns can be
difficult to negotiate. The alternate route is 27 miles which would be necessary for bus travel or those who prefer a paved road.

ttudents, which thus far, has been our principal charitable function. These
problems have resulted primarily from two things:
( 1) The reclassification of the Foundation under the Tax Reform Act of
1969,and
(2) The sale of the UCLA Clubhouse.

304

The comparison of attendance at Malakoff versus Columbia is:
Columbia
Malakoff
Years
12,020
15,026
16,485

1968-69
1969-70
1970-71

340,901
357,301
343,345

Respectfully submitted,
FRANK P. LEMEN, Chairman

WILLIAM H. LAMBERT
EUGENE THOMAS

FRANCIS H. KING
GORDON KISHBAUGH

RONALD MILLER
Adopted.

REPORT OF CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The California Masonic Foundation, a non-profit, charitable corporation,
has been organized since March 5, 1969, and has now completed approximately two and one-half (2~) years of operations.
The Articles of Incorporation provide that there shall be fifteen ( 15)
members of the Board of Trustees, but during the past year, one member
resigned and has not been replaced; therefore, we have been functioning with
only fourteen (14) members. We also regret to report that one member,
Brother Fred B. Hack, of Piedmont, passed away. His place was filled by
Brother Paul F. Balck of San Francisco. Brother Hack was an able and
dedicated man and we express our heartfelt sympathy to his family.
Eight (8) of the trustees are from Southern California, four (4) from
Northern or Central California, one (1) from Santa Barbara, and one from
Hawaii. The names of the officers and trustees are hereinafter set forth.
During the past fiscal year, ending June 30, 1971, we have had many
collateral matters arise which have required much time and attention and
have, to some extent, interfered with the awarding of scholarships to worthy

RECLASSIFICATION OF THE FOUNDATION
During the month of November, 1970, we received notice from Internal
Revenue that we had been classified as a private foundation under the newly
enacted Internal Revenue Code, which has become commonly known as "The
Tax Reform Act of 1969." This classification was appealed, but no different
ruling was made - at least no notice thereof was received from Internal
Revenue, and we have proceeded upon the assumption that the classification
will stand.
This has necessitated numerous consultations with tax counsel, as well as
with the accounting firm of Touche Ross & Company to determine, first, just
what the chances were of reversing the private foundation classification and
second, just what restrictions are imposed upon a private foundation if the
classification remains.
As to the first item, it has now been pretty well determined that because
all of our assets came from one source, namely, Grand Lodge, we do not
qualify as a public foundation. As to the second matter, the restrictions on a
private foundation, while onerous in some respects, are not fatal, and will
not prevent us from accomplishing our charitable purposes.
Among other things, a private foundation must pay a tax of 4% (four
percent) on its net investment income, cannot engage in an unrelated business
without being taxed to the full extent, and there can be no "self dealing" by
a major contributor. These restrictions sound simple, but definitions, as in all
tax situations, are complicated and would require more space than is available
here to discuss in further detail.
THE UCLA CLUBHOUSE
We regret to report that the UCLA Clubhouse has not as yet been sold,
and title remains vested in the Foundation. This results in considerable annual
expense, including taxes, maintenance, and up-keep with no appreciable income therefrom to off-set such expense.
The property is now listed with Coldwell Banker Company under an
exclusive listing agreement for a period of six ( 6) months beginning August
17, 1971. Considerable interest has been shown in the property, both by
prospective purchasers and lessees, but thus far, there has been nothing of a
sufficiently definite nature to report at this time.
SCHOLARSHIPS
During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971, we awarded approximately
eighteen (18) scholarships to various deserving and worthy students through-

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

out the State. The average award to each student was $400.00, although, in a
few instances, $500.00 was granted, and in others, $100.00. The total amount
of these grants was $8,600.00, but $4,000.00 was withheld, and either have
been, or will be, awarded during the current fiscal year.
We also have pending new applications which have been approved totalling
approximately fifty (50) at $400.00 each. It will be readily apparent from
this statistic, that a total of $20,000.00 will be needed to fund these applications alone, and that requests for assistance are increasing rapidly.

As will be seen from the section on scholarships, in order to fund the
scholarships already approved, some $20,000.00 will be needed. More and
more applications are being received, and it would appear to be most undesirable to curtail the program at this critical time, as its acceptance and
recognition by the Lodges is just beginning, and can become more and more
a factor for the advancement of Masonry throughout California and Hawaii.

BUDGET AND FINANCE

JoHN S. HUNT, Los Angeles, President

The report of Touche Ross & Company, Certified Public Accountants, as
at June 30, 1971, shows assets on hand of $345,337.00. At the same date a
year ago, they were $363,983.00.
Revenues for the year amounted to $25,055.00, derived almost entirely
from interest and dividends on investments. Actual expenses for the year
were $22,990.00, consisting of: Scholarship grants - $4,600.00; Clubhouse
expense - $15,966.00; Travel expense - $1,897.00; Miscellaneous $205.00; and reserve for excise tax (federal) - $322.00.
Added to these expenses, however, was a loss on sale of securities amounting to 20,822.00; so that there was a net excess of expenses over income
amounting to $18,757.00.
Investme nt policy is controlled entirely by the Investme nt Committee of
Grand Lodge. Said Committee recommended conversion of certain maturing
securities to tax-free municipal bonds, but later, upon advice of tax counsel,
the Investme nt Committee determined that it would be best to sell these
bonds, even at a substanti al loss, and re-invest in higher-yield securities so
that ultimately, the loss would be recovered.
Present investments consist primarily of security transactions in transit $183,020.00; bonds - $110,240.00; common stocks - $26,883.00. The
UCLA Clubhouse is carried at $1.00. Cash on hand as at June 30, 1971, was
$21,764.00.
CURRENT YEAR'S BUDGET

Our estimated income for the current year beginning July 1, 1971, is:
Estimate d expenses:
Scholarships ••.•... ........ ........ ... $30,000.00
UCLA Clubhouse ........ ........ .... . 15,966.00
Travel expenses •....... ........ .......
1,800.00

$ 20,000.00

47,766.00
Excess of expenses over income: .••.•.• ..••.... ......• $(27,766.00)
It will be seen from the foregoing that we have only three alternatives: (1) Sell the UCLA Clubhouse; (2) Use some capital to fund scholarships;
( 3) Obtain an allowance from Grand Lodge.

307

Respectfully submitted,

CARL B. MUNcK,
Oakland, Vice President
PETE B. FL0R10

EDWARD H. Rowms
DuANE W. WHEELER
GARY B. WEmEL

PAUL F. BALCK

JoHN M. GORDON

RICHARD ANDREWS

MELVIN A. PlxLEY
PAUL S. BOREN

HERBERT

w. SMITH

RALPH FENSTER

MoN TAI Luo

Adopted.
At 11:55 A.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Thursday .

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Thurs day, October 14, 1971
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding.
Brother Safa Cicin, Master of Monterey Lodge No. 217, raised Grand Lodge.
The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of the morning
session of Wednesday, October 13, were read and approved.

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees noted. Committee reports
and action taken are printed below each.

MASTER MASON DISTINGUISHED SERVICE CERTIFICATE
(1)
To the Most W01'shipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of Calif01'nia:
WHEREAS, recognition of services rendered contributes to the successful functioning of the Masonic activities, and
WHEREAS, frequently those who work hardest are not Officers or even
members of Grand Lodge and therefore are overlooked when compliments
are passed out, and
WHEREAS, it will be of assistance to Inspectors Masters and others
in authority if they can recommend brethren for reco~ition by the Grand
Master,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a new section be added
to the California Masonic Code to read as follows:
"Section 134.1. To cause to be issued a certificate of appreciation to
any Master Mason who has rendered outstanding service, whether or
not a member of Grand Lodge."
Respectfully submitted,
RoY E. RosWURM, M., No. 504
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General

Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes to authorize a certificate of appreciation for any
Master Mason rendering outstanding service.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is in complete accord
with the intent of the resolution. We point out that Grand Masters in the
past have issued certificates of appreciation such as, for example, the certificate to fifty-year members, certificate to Committeemen and Consultants,
some of whom were not members of Grand Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

309

Your Committee also believes a personal letter of appreciation from the
Grand Master will frequently afford greater pleasure and reward than a
printed certificate. In fact, we suggest that Master Masons knowing of outstanding service by one of their Brethren, would do well to communicate the
facts, by letter, to the Grand Master.
Since our law presently permits the action requested and since the resolution would only be restrictive, the Committee moves the adoption of the
Resolution and your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends
a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 1 was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence. This
Resolution proposes to add a new section to the California Masonic Code to
be numbered 134.1. As there is already a section with the number 134.1, this
section will be 134.2.
The Jurisprudence Committee offers the following Resolution:
RESOLVED that a new section be added to the California Masonic
Code to read as follows:
Section 134.2 Powers Continued
To cause to be issued a certificate of appreciation to any Master
Mason who has rendered outstanding service, whether or not a member
of Grand Lodge.
A majority voted against the resolution.

LIMIT GRAND MASTER'S EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS
(2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the California Masonic Code now provides for no more than
the establishment of six general Divisions of the Grand Lodge jurisdiction
in the State of California, and
WHEREAS, The California Masonic Code makes no provisions for the
realignment of said general Divisions, and
WHEREAS, Such re-alignment must, of necessity, occur in order to
maintain a balance of responsibility placed upon the Assistant Grand Lecturers whose duty it is to supervise such Divisions, and
WHEREAS, Proper authority to establish such re-alignment must be set
forth, in order to place resporisibility for such action and to guarantee the
stability of said Divisions,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, That Section 158 of the California
Masonic Code be amended to read, in addition to its present wording, as
follows: No re-alignment of the six general Divisions of the Grand Lodge
Jurisdiction in the State of California shall be permitted, except under the
following conditions; that such re-alignment be requested by the Grand
'.Master; that a plan for said re-alignment be devised by the Grand Lecturer

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

with the full co-operation and consent of the six Assistant Grand Lecturers·
~t said plan ~ submit!-00 t~ the Grand Master for approval, and; that
said p~ be ~UbJec~ to rati~cation by ~ and all of the six general Divisions,
such ratification being attained by five-sixths-majority-vote of the lnspectors
of the respective Divisions.
Respectfully submitted,
MARK TAPSCOTT, M., No. 677

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes
and on Ritual.

The Committee on Ritual:
This resolution proposes that no realignment of Division shall be permitted
except under the following conditions:
The G~and Maste.r must first make a request that the Grand Lecturer,
together with the AsSlstant Grand Lecturers, devise a plan for said realignment.
That before the Grand Lecturer may submit such a plan to the Grand
Mast_er for his approval and implementation, he must first obtain the
unanimous consent of the six Assistant Grand Lecturers.
It is made quite clear in Section 156, paragraph 1st of the California
Maso~c Code that. it shall be the duty of the Grand Lecturer "to supervise
and direct ~e ~IStant Grand I:ecturers and the Inspectors in the performance of their duties, and to reqwre conformity with the adopted Ritual and
work." Paragraph 6th of the same section establishes that the Grand Lecturer shall preside over the Ritual Committee.
These Code sections establish that it is the duty of the Grand Lecturer
to recommend any change or realignment of Divisions which might become
necessary to the proper performance of the Ritual and work.
T? obtain ~ous.conse~t of al! six Assistant Grand Lecturers on any
~uestion can be difficult if not 1m~1ble, and if the dissent of any one As,.
Slstant Grand Lecturer could overrule the recommendation of the Grand
Lecturer, it would be impossible for him to perform the duties required of
him as head of the Ritual Committee.
This resolution would on the one hand deny the power of the Grand
Lecturer to make recommendations as to change or realignment of Divisions
but! on the other, would permit anyone subordinate officer, in this case an
AsSstant Grand Lecturer, to reject such recommendation a situation equivalent to granting an appointive Lodge officer the pow~r to overrule the
Master.
We very strongly urge a "No" vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
. Resolution No. 2 proposes that no re-alignment of the six General Divisions ?f the G~~d Lodge jurisdiction shall be permitted except under the
following conditions: that such re-alignment be requested by the Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

Master; that a plan for re-alignment be devised by the Grand Lecturer with
full consent of the six Assistant Grand Lecturers; that said plan be subject
to ratification by each and all of the six general Divisions, such ratification
being attained by five-sixths majority vote of the Inspectors of the respective
Division.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes feels that this resolution as submitted will seriously circumscribe and limit the authority of the
Grand Master and destroy the fundamental phUosophy of our Grand Lodge.
Under our present system, as defined in the California Masonic Code,
the Grand Master, during the interval between communications of Grand
Lodge may exercise all its executive, judicial, and legislative powers; except
that of granting charters. All of his decisions and recommendations are then
submitted to Grand Lodge, to which he is responsible.
The California Masonic Code also states that the Grand Master shall
divide the jurisdiction into six general divisions and appoint an AsSstant
Grand Lecturer to each division but cannot create new divisions without
consent of Grand Lodge. Also, the Grand Master shall divide the jurisdiction
into districts and appoint for each district an Inspector.
We feel that a decision of the Grand Master should never be subjected to
ratification by an appointive Grand Lodge officer before such a decision can
go into effect. As we have previously noted, the decisions of the Grand Master
and the Grand Master's actions are reviewed and, either ratified or rejected,
by Grand Lodge, and by Grand Lodge alone.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is aware that the sponsor
of this resolution has asked to delete that section which relates to Inspectors
and their ratification - but still contains that portion which refers to the
Grand Lecturer and the Assistant Grand Lecturers.
We are still of the opinion that no legislation should ever be enacted, that
in the minutest way, shall tie the hands of the Grand Master in carrying out
his duties, as prescribed in our California Masonic Code.
We move the adoption of this resolution and recommend a "No" vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Committee on Jurisprudence, to which this Resolution was referred,
reports as follows:
This Resolution, as presented, is said to limit the Grand Master's executive function in the re-alignment of the general Divisions of the Grand Lodge.
It recognizes that re-alignment must occur. It provides that, upon the Grand
Master's request, the Grand Lecturer, with the cooperation and consent of
all of the Assistant Grand Lecturers, shall submit a plan for the re-alignment
of the Divisions to the Grand Master. It originally provided that when approved by the Grand Master it must then be ratified by a vote of the Inspectors in each and all of the Districts, but the proponent has asked that
this requirement be deleted and we submit legislation on the Resolution a.s
amended.
The proposed resolution requires the amendment of Section 158.

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The following resolution contains the Janguage which would accomplish
the stated intent of the resolution as revised:
RESOLVED, that Section 158 of the California Masonic Code be
amended by inserting a new paragraph between the present first and second
paragraphs of the section, which new paragraph is to read as follows:
."~o .realignment of the six general Divisions of the Grand Lodge
Jurisdiction shall be made, except upon the following conditions:
1. That realignment be requested by the Grand Master.
2. That a plan for realignment be prepared by the Grand Lecturer
with the cooperation and consent of the six Assistant Grand Lecturers.
3. That said pJan be submitted to the Grand Master for his approval
and implementation if approved.
'
A majority voted against the resolution.

INCREASE SIZE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS COMMITIEE
(3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section 192, Standing Committees, presently states that the
Public Schools Committee, to consist of not less than fifteen nor more than
twenty-five members;
WHEREAS, the Metropolitan areas of the State of California have grown
by rapid strides;
WHEREAS, the Public Schools of California have grown and expanded
in urban areas relative to the State's growth;
WHEREAS, that by increasing the number of members on the Public
Schools Committee from a maximum of twenty-five to a maximum of thirty
members, greater assistance could be given to each constituent Lodge in the
overall Public Schools effort;
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California has a vast resource of members whose talents could be more fully utilized by assignments to Standing
Committees;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 192 of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
The following Standing Committee shall be appointed by the Grand
Master at each Annual Communication just before the close viz: On
Juru:pruden~e, on Policy and General Purposes, on Lodge Fin~cing, to
coDSist of rune members each; on Public Schools, to consist of not less
than fifteen n~r more than· thirty members; on Charters, to consist of
not.I~ than six ~or more than fifteen members; on Grand Lodge Week
Activities, to consist of not less than nine nor more than eighteen members; on Finance, on Grievances, on Credentials, on Pay of Members on
By-Laws, on Correspondence, on History, to consist of seven members
each; on Necrology to consist of five members; and on Masonic Infor-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

313

mation and Responsibility, consisting of not less than ten nor more than
thirty members. At least one Senior Warden and one Junior Warden shall
be appointed as a member of each of said committees. The duties of such
committees shall continue during the year thereafter, and shall cease at
the close of the next succeeding Annual Communication.
Respectfully submitted,
RICHARD H. DUTWILER, P.M.,
RAYMOND c. REEDER, P.M.,
No. 622
No. 384
WM. R. PORTER, P.M., No. 313
DEAN L. SHIVELY,P.M., No. 104
GEORGE H. HESS, P.M., No. 684
ROBERT P. BLAKE, P.M., No. 620
THOMAS SCARLETT, P.M., No. 801 WILLIAM E. ZIMMERMAN, P.M.,
ROBERT L. KERR, P.M., No. 725
No. 58
PHILIP C. REINER, P.M., No. 264 RoLAND 0. HUGHES, S.W., No. 421
LAURENCE C. CooK, P.M., No. 648 RODGER D. SmMs, P.M., No. 615
RrcHARD A. HEBERT, P.M., No. 169 M. WILLIAM HOLSINGER, M.,
DARROL E. DAVIS, P.M., No. 431
No. 259
GEORGE E. HIATT, P.M., No. 247
DANA A. TuRPIN, P.M., No. 336
CLYDE M. STINE, P.M., No. 560
MILTON RUBIN, P.M., No. 623
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

The Committee on Finance:
Resolution No. 3 has been referred to the Committee on Finance. While
we do not question the sincere and honest efforts of the Public Schools Committee, we do question the need of increasing its size.
In view of the present activities of all Lodges and their awareness of
Public Schools Programs, together with the assistance provided by the In!lpectors with their Officers Associations, it is the opinion of your Committee
on Finance that the present Public Schools Committee of twenty-five plus
two consultants might even be too large.
Increasing the size of the Committee would call for an increase in the
budget appropriation contributing to a possible increase in the per capita tax.
We, therefore, recommend a "No" vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes to increase the membership of the Standing
$rnnuttee on Public Schools from 25 to 30 members.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is keenly aware that
Masons support the Public Schools because a free public education system
for all is essential to the survival of our system of government. We find,
llo.rever, that since 1920 when then Grand Master Charles A. Adams founded
Public Schools Week the problems of the schools have greatly increased and
today Public Education is threatened with extinction. Masons should be
iafonned on all aspects of the "voucher plan," should be knowledgeable on
lbatters of school financing in light of the recent California State Supreme

314

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Court decision and should be aware of what curriculum changes are doing
to public education. We believe it is no longer prudent or indeed of any
great value to have a Public School Week once a year and visit a classroom
one day a year and be of any genuine assistance in supporting our Public
Schools. We believe the functions of the Public Schools Committee should
encompass those matters we have suggested and its efforts on behalf of the
schools should be on an all year basis.
In our opinion this does not require additional members on the Committee.
for assistance can be obtained in every Lodge in California and Hawaii among
non-members of Grand Lodge as well as members of Grand Lodge.
We feel certain the Grand Master would personally seek the services of
any of the Brethren the Committee might require to assist in its work.
Those who undertake such service on behalf of the Committee are truly
performing a Masonic duty.
Your Committee is also aware of the added expense to Grand Lodge of
five new members on a Standing Committee.
We hope the Public Schools Committee will carry out such internal reorgani:r.ation as will enable it to perform the additional functions we have
suggested and any others they may find necessary for support of our Public
Schools by utilizing the scores of our Brethren who recognize the need and
can serve Freemasonry.
The Committee on Jurisprudence has authorized me to inform you that
the legislation proposed will carry out the intention of the proponents.
I move the adoption of the Resolution and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
A simple majority voted for the resolution. Failing a 5/6 vote, the matter
was held until the 1972 Annual Communication as a "Proposed Amendmenii
to the Ordinances."

RESTORE MASONIC TEMPLE AT
MALAKOFF DIGGINGS STATE HISTORIC PARK

(4)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of Ca/.ifornia:
WHEREAS, the California State Department of Parks and Recreation in
1966 established the Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park, which includes
the historical and spectacular Malakoff Diggings and the site of the pioneer
town of North Bloomfield; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Parks and Recreation has authorized the
authentic restoration of the historic town of North Bloomfield as a living
demonstration of a pioneer gold rush settlement for posterity to observel
study and enjoy; and
WHEREAS, the Masonic Fraternity played a leading role in the settle"'
ment and development of the great State of California; and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

315

WHEREAS, a Masonic Temple was among the first buildings erected in

all of the Mother Lode pioneer towns, the Lodge building of Quittman Lodge
Number 88 being erec~ in 1863; and
WHEREAS, the thousands of visitors to Malakoff Historic State Park
should have the opportunity to observe the importance of the Masonic
Fraternity in the pioneer settlements of California; and
WHEREAS, the restoration of the Masonic Temple in North Bloomfield
will provide an historic and interesting Lodge room for all Lodges of this
jurisdiction to conduct visitations and degree work by reservation, and a
Masonic museum of interest to visiting Masons of all jurisdictions; and
WHEREAS, the Malakoff Historic State Park provides facilities for
picnicking, camping, swimming, panning gold, overnight cabins, scenic wonlers, a musuem and a trout stream, thereby providing entertainment for
the families of Lodge members conducting visitations; and
WHEREAS, the California Department of Parks and Recreation must
enlist the aid of many private groups and agencies in restoring the pioneer
town of North Bloomfield, since state funds are not available to reconstruct
buildings in the $30,000 to $60,000 price range; and
WHEREAS, nothing remains of the Lodge building of Quittman Lodge
Number 88 but traces of the foundation; and
WHEREAS, the old Catholic Church is already in the process of retf.oration; and
WHEREAS, Mr. William Penn Mott, Jr., Director of the Department
of Parks and Recreation, and Mr. Ray Hunter, Deputy Director, have
pledged full cooperation and support for the Grand Lodge Free & Accepted
Masons of California in a program to rebuild the North Bloomfield Masonic
Temple; and the project is likewise approved and supported by the Citizens
~visory Committee for Malakoff State Park, and the Park Superintendent
aas pledged the labors of his carpenters and maintenance personnel to reduce
the cost of construction; and
WHEREAS, this resolution was defeated in 1969 and 1970 because the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes felt Grand Lodge must establish
a firm policy governing the rebuilding or restoring of historic Masonic buildings, and entering into cooperative agreements with the California State
Department of Parks and recreation and other public agencies for such
projects; and
WHEREAS, such a policy is being adopted by means of a special comlllittee appointed by the Grand Master for this purpose during the current
Year, and under the provisions of an accompanying resolution; and
WHEREAS, the rebuilding of the old Masonic Temple at North Bloomield will constitute an important milestone in the history of our ancient and
labnorable fraternity by displaying the leading role played by our pioneer

316

317

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Fathers, which may well inspire other men to travel where brothers
and fellows have gone before;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand Lodge
F. & A. M. of California appropriate amounts up to a maximum of $60,000,
if required, prior to January 1, 1972 for rebuilding the Masonic Temple at
North Bloomfield, California in a true reproduction of the original Temple.
Re.spectfully submitted,
EUGENE WALTER, JR. M., No. 13
BENJAMIN L. CANNING, p .M.,
WILLIAM H. LumERT, S.W., No. 13
No. 260
J. HowARD KEENE, P.M., No. 13
MAsKEY M. HEATH, J.W., No. 13
ROBERT E. McMAsTERS1 P.M.,
TuoMAS STEEL, P .M., No. 51
No.13
HAVEN MARTIN, P .M., No. 13
WADE P. PATTERSON, S.W., No. 23 CAMERON A. LARSEN, P.M., No. 13
H. A McPHERSON, P.M., No. 13
THOMAS THOMAS, JR., p .M.,
STEVE M. CHILEsKI, P.M., No. 23
No. 23
Wu.LIAM J. ToLLE, P.M., No. 23
Alu.IE HANSEN, P.M., No. 23
CHARLES R. INGRAM, P.M., No. 23 ERic A. ScHINDHELM, P.M., No. 23
LESTER F. ANDERSON, P.M.,
WM. R. CARNEY, M., No. 23
No. 260
WALTER J. WEIGER, P.M., No. 23
FRANCIS H. KING, P .M., No. 260

I move the adoption of Resolution No. 4 and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
.
•
I have been authorized to report that the Committees on Finance and on
Historical Site Restoration and Preservation concur with this report.
A majority voted against the resolution.

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Finance,
and on Historical Site Restoration and Preservation.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 4 is a renewed proposal for the rebuilding of the Temple
of Quittman Lodge No. 88 in the Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park at
North Bloomfield. The proposal calls for the appropriation of needed funds
up to a maximum of i6o,ooo, if required, prior to January 1, 1972. The
proposal to rebuild this historic temple is placed before this Grand Lodge for
the third successive year.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes again states its belief
that the proposal to rebuild the Masonic Temple at North Bloomfield is
worthy and that it should be accomplished, and again we commend the
Brethren who have worked so diligently and with so much enthusiasm toward
that end. We still believe that Grand Lodge must establish a ti.rm policy
respecting proposals of this kind. We believe that a satisfactory policy has
not yet been developed.
Your Committee, some of whose members have carefully studied the
details of the present status and situation of the Malakoff Diggings State
Historic Park, also believes that further delay in embarking upon this
project will not endanger the possibility of restoration of the Temple of
Quittman Lodge No. 88. As we reported to you at the 1970 Annual COID·
munication, we believe that the point of commitment for the project has
not been reached and we accordingly urge a "No" vote on Resolution No. 4.

RESTORE TEMPLE AT BENICIA AS A MASONIC SHRINE
(5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the first Masonic Temple erected in California on a lot fifty
by QDe-hundred-twenty-five feet (SO' .x .125') . at 110 ":est "J" Str~t,
Benicia, a two story wooden frame building, thirty fee~ wide and fifty:~
feet long ( 30' x 56') adjacent to .the Mas;o?ic ~all, ~eeti?g place ?f B~aa
Lodge No. S, has occupied a singular position m Califorrua ~me History
for 121 years and by virtue of its uniqueness and by authon~y of the Grand
Lodge, F. & A. M ., of California, is one of the four loca.tio~ where constituent Lodges may confer degrees under their own respective charters,

and
WHEREAS, the foundation and exterior of the Temple have fallen into
a state of disrepair, requiring expenditures of from $12,000.00. to $15,000;00
for restoration, and bringing up to code standards, and conSists of mo".1ng
the building back ten feet on the lot, placing it on a new concrete foundation,
11ndblasting and painting the exterior. (Building has been declared structurally sound by the City Building Inspector), and
WHEREAS, the expenditure of that amount of money would place an
excessive financial burden on Benicia Lodge No. S, and
WHEREAS the only reasonable choice open to Benicia Lodge, is to
raze the buildi~g and utilize the area for membership parking or deed to
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of California for the purpose
of restoration as a Masonic Shrine.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Benicia Lodge ~o. ~'
F. & A. M. deed the Historic Temple Building and the lot upon whic;h it
stands, in fee simple, (all furnishings excluded) to The Most Wors!llpful
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of California, for the purpose of restoration as
a Masonic Shrine.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that upon completion of res~rati~n
and transfer of title Benicia Lodge No. S, F. & A. M ., lease the Histpnc
temple Building fr~m the Most Worship!ul Grand Lo<!ge,. F. & A. M., of
CaliforniaI if agreeableI and that BemCia Lodge mamtain same, except
for major repairs, for the duration of the lease.
Respectfully submitted,
J.ums T. WoNG, M., No. S
SVEND 0.K. So1lENSEN, P.M., No. 5

318

P.ROCEEDINGS OP THE

Re~err~ to Committees on Poli

cy and General Purposes, on Finance
on
Ma.some History, and on Historical Site
Restoration and Pres erva tion .'
The Committee on Policy and General
Purposes:
. Rr:solution No. 5 is a proposal by
Benicia Lodge No. 5 to deed the
hist~nc .t~ple building possesse
d by that Lodge to the Grand Lodge
of
°';li f?rm a ~n ~rder that the Grand
Lodge may provide repair for the
bwlding which 1S ~~ently man dato
ry for its preservation and use. Benicia.
Lodge No. 5 has mdicated that the
needed expenditures would place an
excessive financial burden on the Lodg
e.
. This b~ldi~ is the. first Masonic Tem
ple erected in California and there
is no q~estio~, in .th~ Judgment of your
Committee, as to the necessity of
pr~vmg this bwlding. The
problem is what should be the source
of the
mome:i f~r the needed work. This is
another example of the necessity of
~tablishing ~ ~equate and prac
tical policy respecting the preservation
of
unp orta nt histo~c Masonic buildings
and sites for this Grand Lodge.
Your ComI?1~tee believes that in this
instance the Grand Mas ter and the
officers of Bem~a Lodge No. 5 should
atte mpt join tly to develop a feas iblt
plan for financmg the needed work and
for the continued preservation of
the Temple. It may be that funds can
be procured in sufficent amount to
commence the work of repair with prov
ision for replacement of such funds
over an extended period of time. Spec
ially reserved or designated funds
of Gran d Lodge might be such a source.
Resolution No. 5 implies an immedia
te financial commitment on the
part of. G~and Lodge. You r Committ
ee believes, therefore, that Resolution
No. s. m its present form should be
rejected, but that the mat ter of rest?ra tion of the fi!5t Masonic Temple
erected in California mus t not be put
aside.. We ~r~y. urge the incoming
Grand Mas ter to devote prom pt
atten tion to this Situation.
I am authorized to state that the Com
mittee on Finance concurs in this
report.
I move the adoption of Resolution No.
5 and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a
"No " vote.
The Committee on Masonic History
and on Historical Site Restoration
and Preservation did not report.
A majo rity voted against the resolutio
n.

ESTABLISH POLICY FOR RESTORIN
G
OLD MASONIC TEMPLES

(6)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge,

F. & A. M. of California:
WH ERE AS, !or tJ;rree (3) successive
year s ('69 , '70 & '71) the Masons
of Nor ther n Cahforma have presente
d a resolution at the Annual Communication providing for raising fund
s to rebuild the old Masonic Temple,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

at the old "gold-rush" town of Nor th Bloo

319

m.field in Malakoff Diggings
State Historic Park ; and
WH ERE AS, the resolution failed to
pass in 1969 and 1970 because
the Grand Lodge Committee on Policy
and General Purposes felt that a
long range policy for the restoration or
rebuilding of old Masonic Temples,
and entering into agreements with the
California Stat e Dep artm ent of Park s
and Recreation and similar public
agencies, must be established before
Grand Lodge undertakes any more proj
ects of this natu re; and
WHEREAS, the Committee on Poli
cy and General Purposes in both
1969 and 1970 recommended that the
Gran d Mas ter appoint a special
committee to make a thorough stud y
of this mat ter and submit recommendations at the next Annual Communicati
on; and
WH ERE AS, in 1970 no committee was
appointed although there was
some correspondence on the subject
between Grand Lodge and the proponents of the resolution; and
WH ERE AS, a committee was appointed
on Febr uary 18, 1971, but as
of June 26 no meeting had been held,
although the vice chairman wrote the
chairman three (3) lette rs and made one
phone call, requesting a committee
llleeting, and the vice chairman wrote
the Gran d Mas ter seeking auth ority
to call a meeting; and
WH ERE AS, the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes is definitely
in favor of rebuilding the Masonic Tem
ple at Nor th Bloomfield, as indicated
in the 1970 report, (quo te) "Yo ur com
mittee further feels that the proposal
to rebuild the Masonic Temple at Nor
th Bloomfield is worthy and that
it should be accomplished ... we also wan
t it understood that the Committee
'ban imo usly favors the restoration of
the Quit tman Lodge Tem ple" ;
NOW, THE REF ORE BE IT RESOLV
ED that the following policy
be adopted by the CAL IFO RNI A GRA
ND LOD GE OF FRE E AND
ACC EPT ED MASONS for entering
into cooperative agreements with the
California Stat e Dep artm ent of Park s
and Recreation and other government
agencies, concerning the restoration and
/or rebuilding of historic Masonic
l>uildings:
.
Grand Lodge may finance the rebuildin
g or restoration of an historic
Masonic Temple when pas.5ed by reso
lution at the Annual Communication.
Any project of this natu re financed
by Grand Lodge mus t be located
'Within the boundaries of a state park ,
national park, national monument or
other publicly owned institution where
government personnel provide security throughout the entire year.
Other than cases of extreme disaster, the
financing of one of these projects
'Will be a "one-time only" expenditure,
since the completed building will be
deeded over to the public agency invo
lved, and said agency will assume
l'esponsibility for operations and main
tena
The Masonic Frat erni ty will have freence.
use of the building at any time
by advance reservation. The public agen
cy will have the righ t to conduct

320

321

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

guided tours for the general public through the Masonic Temple, when
such activities do not interfere with Masonic use for which advance reservations have been made. Any Mason with a paid-up dues card will be given
a guided tour of the building during normal working hours.
Grand Lodge will appoint a committee to collect Masonic paraphernalia
and artifacts for development of a representative lodge room and display
of Masonic memorabilia.
The Inspector of the Masonic District wherein the Masonic Temple
is located will appoint personnel to administer reservations for use thereof,
and function as liaison with the public agency concerned.
Respectfully submitted,
EUGENE WALTER, JR., M., No. 13
MASKEY M. HEATH, J.W., No. 13
WILLIAM H. LAMBERT, S.W., No. 13 DEMAR B. DUNDAS, P.M., No. 13
THOMAS STEEL, P.M., No. 51
J. HowARD KEENE, P.M., No. 13
HAVEN MARTIN, P.M., No. 13
ROBERT E. McMASTERs, P.M.,
CAMERON A. LARSEN, P.M., No. 13
No. 13
TuoMAS TuoMAS, JR., P.M., No. 23 WADE PATTERSON, S.W., No. 23
STEVE M. CHILEsKI, P.M., No. 23 ARLIE 0 . HANSEN, P.M., No. 23
Wu.LIAM: J. ToLLE, P.M., No. 23
ERIC A. ScHINDHELM, P.M., No. 23
CHARLES R. INGRAM, P.M., No. 23 W. R. CARNEY, M., No. 23
H. A. McPHERSON, P.M., No. 13
WALTER WIEGER, P.M., No. 23
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Finance,
on Masonic History, and on Historical Site Restoration and Preservation.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 6 proposes the adoption of a policy concerning the restoration of historic Masonic buildings. At both the 1969 and 1970 Annual
Communications your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, in reporting on the proposals to rebuild the Temple of Quittman Lodge No. 88
at North Bloomfield in the Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park, recommended the appointment of a special committee to develop and propose
a policy for the Grand Lodge concerning the restoration of historic Masonic
buildings. Grand Master Huebner appointed such a committee and on
Tuesday, October 12th, of this Communication you heard the report of that
committee.
It is the opinion of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
that Resolution No. 6, in limiting restorations to be financed by the Grand
Lodge to locations only within the boundaries of publicly owned parks and
Jnstitutions, does not propose a policy that adequately copes with the
problem of Grand Lodge responsibility and participation in the area of
historic site restoration and preservation.
Historically important Masonic buildings and sites are not limited to
those located within state or national parks, or similar publicly owned areas.
As time passes there will undoubtedly be many proposals for preservation
of places of importance to the history of Freemasonry in this jurisdiction.
It is the belief of your Committee that the policy proposed in Resolution
No. 6 is too limiting to be acceptable. In short, it is our opinion that this
Grand Lodge can and should develop a more adequate and embracing policy
than that which is proposed in this resolution.
I am authorized to state that the Committee on Finance concurs in this
report.
I move adoption of Resolution No. 6 and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Historical Site Restoration and Preservation did not
report.
A majority voted against the resolution.

The Committee <>n Masonic History:
Resolution No. 6 clearly lays out the guide lines for the restoration
and maintenance of old Masonic Temples.
Your Committee on Masonic History appreciates all of the thought and
work that has gone into this resolution.
We feel that guide lines should be laid out for the restoration and
maintenance of Masonic Temples. But we believe that this resolution is
much too limiting in its scope.
1. There may be Masonic Temples not located on public lands that
Grand Lodge may wish to restore and could not when limited by the intent
of this resolution.
2. This resolution calls for Grand Lodge to expend its funds and then
deed the property over to a State agency.
3. This resolution also calls for the State to make certain concessions
to the Masonic Fraternity by making available the use of the buildings to
Masonic groups upon advance reservation - at any time. This would make
guided tours unavailable to the public at the time the Fraternity wishes to
use it. We do not know if the State can fulfill such a commitment.
In view of these facts your Committee on Masonic History recommends
a "No" vote on this resolution.

CHANGE OF LODGE NAME

(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M .. of California:
WHEREAS, Our place of meeting is in the City of Monterey Park, and
WHEREAS, There is no Lodge by that name, and
WHEREAS, We want to be identified with and have the distinction and
honor of that city's name, and
·
WHEREAS, The name of a Masonic Lodge should be easily recognized
lrith the name of the community, and
WHEREAS, A Masonic Lodge should have a name that reflects a
leographical location;

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, That Belvedere Sunrise
Lodge No. 522, F. & A. M. apply to Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of the State
of California for permission to change its name to:
MONTEREY PARK LODGE NO. 522, F. & A. M.
To be effective January 1, 1972.
This will enable us to close our books at the end of 1971 and give us
time to prepare our affairs necessary to conduct business under the new name.
We feel this change of name will be advantageous for the best interest
of our Lodge and Masonry in the community in general.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE DERETICH, S.W., No. 522
E. MACK FosTER, P.M., No. 522
A. A. MusKE, P .M., No. 522
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Charters.
(NOTE: Prior to reports by the Committees and action by Grand Lodge,
the Grand Master read the following statement:
Resolutions 7 and 8 were submitted on behalf of two Lodges in the City
of Monterey Park, both seeking to have their names changed to Monterey
Park Lodge. Since submission of the resolutions - and quite recently the two Lodges have agreed to resolve the problem of name change themselves.
I commend the officers of these two Lodges for their having reached
harmonious agreement. For the sole purpose of expediency I shall now exercise
the prerogative of the Grand Master and declare Resolutions 7 and 8 moot
and consequently out of order.)
Grand Lodge did not act on Resolutions Nos. 7 and 8.

CHANGE OF LODGE NAME

(8)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS the name of Ramona Lodge No. 457 F. & A. M. was originally
adopted in 1916 from the name of the Community of Ramona Acres in
which the Lodge was located; and
WHEREAS the name of the Community of Ramona Acres has been
changed to the City of Monterey Park; and
·
WHEREAS identification of the Lodge with the city in which it is
located would benefit the image of Masonry in general and improve community relations;
WE THEREFORE request permission of the Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of California to change the name of Ramona Lodge No.
457 F. & A. M. to that of Monterey Park Lodge No. 457 F. & A. M., effective
January 1, 1972.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

323

Respectfully submitted,
TuoMAS C. FARRELL, M., No. 457 JoHN W. WoRMAN, P.M., No. 457
CHARLES E. HUGHES, S.W., No. 457 HowARD D. DoLAN, P.M., No. 457
ELWOOD F. GALERIA, P.M., No. 457 ROBERT G. JAMIESON, P.M.,
EUGENE E. GREENE, P.M., No. 457
No. 457
Wn.LIAM A. Wn.LsoN, P.M.,
JoHN M. VAN DoLAH, P.M.,
No. 457
No. 457
EDWARD D. COURTNEY, P.M.,
ARNOLD G. ROBERTSON, P.M.,
No. 457
No. 457
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on Charters.

(NOTE: See action on Resolution No. 7).

WEARING OF APRONS

(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS: This Grand Lodge has not previously adopted an apron
~ropriate to the Rank of Past Master, even though the Rank and Title
of Past Master is clearly established and defined in Section 490 of the
California Masonic Code; and
WHEREAS: Many of our Brethren have expressed a desire to wear an
apron appropriate to their Rank or Station at the "Public" or open Installation of Officers;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 328.1 be added
to the California Masonic Code, reading as follows:
328.1. Wearing of Aprons. The apron appropriate to ones Rank or
Station may be worn at any gathering of Masons at which Officers of Lodges
are authorized to wear the apron of their respective Stations, and further,
that those who hold the Title and Rank of Past Master as defined in Section
490 of the California Masonic Code, may wear a Past Masters Apron having
the Jewel of a Past Master upon it, except that a Past Master shall not
wear said Past Masters Apron while occupying any Officers Station in conferring the Degrees of Masonry, but shall wear the Apron of the Station
which he is occupying for said conferral.
Respectfully submitted,
H. DOUGLAS LEMONS, P.M.,
ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS, P.M.,
No. 699
No. 260
BERTRAM C. voN KoNSKY, P.M.,
WALLACE H. FISKE, P.M., No. 391
GEORGE W. PERKINS, P.M., No. 378
No. 260
EDWARD E. SEAGLE, P.M., No. 730
ERNEST M. NEWTON, P.M., No. 296
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General

i>urposes.

324

325

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 9 deals with the wearing of aprons, particul arly Past
Masters Aprons. Though your Committee on Policy and General Purpose
s
believes that nothing is more Masonic than the white lambskin apron
we
see no objection to adding to the California Masonic Code, Section 328.1
as proposed.
I move the adoption of Resolution No. 9 and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The propone nts have requested certain deletions which are proper.
To implement these changes, the following resolution is presented:
RESOL VED, that Section 328.1 be added to the California Masonic
Code, to read as follows:
Section 328.1 Wearing of Aprons. The apron appropr iate to ones Rank
or Station may be worn at any gatherin g of Masons at which Officers
of
Lodges are authorized to wear the apron of their respective Stations, and
further, those those who hold the Title and Rank of Past Master as defined
in Section 490 of the California Masonic Code, may wear a Past Masters
Apron having the Jewel of a Past Master upon it, except that a Past Master
shall not wear said Past Masters Apron while occupying any Officers Station
but shall wear the Apron of the Station which he is occupying.
We offer this resolution without recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

of said signs manufac tured so that they might be distribu ted at cost to the
constituent Lodges upon request.

MASONIC PLAQUE OR SIGN WITH EMBLEM
AT ENTRANCE TO CITY
(10)
To the Most Wf>rshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, Section 333-u, California Masonic Code, now permits signs
to be erected at the entrances to a town or city wherein a Masonic Lodge
is located, giving the name and location of that Lodge and information
as
to when and where it meets;
AND WHERE AS, No provision has been made for a standard type of
sign to be developed for this purpose, which might consequently lead
to
the erection of outsize and undesirable signs;
BE IT HEREB Y RESOL VED, That the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
be instructe d to appoint a committee to investigate and report on a standard
type of sign to be used for purposes outlined in Section 333-u of the
California Masonic Code;
BE IT FURTH ER RESOL VED, That when a standard type of sign
for the above purpose has been adopted, that the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge be instruct ed to take the necessary action to .have a sufficient supply

Respectfully submitted,
JAMES T. HORTON, M., No. 305
KENNETH D. MAcCHEsNEY, P.M.,
ARTHELLE A. INGRAM, P.M.,
No. 305
No. 305
J. THOMAS MAXWELL, P.M.,
CHARLES B. McLEEs, P .M.,
No. 305
No. 305
JosEPH W. PHILLIPS, P .M.,
EVERETT C. MALONE, P.M.,
No. 305
No. 305
GoRDON H. BoucHARD, S.W.,
ARLEIGH LEE, P.M., No. 305
No. 305
HENRY J. CAPPELL, P.M., No. 305
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on Finance.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 10 proposes that the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
California appoint a committee to investigate and repor.t i~ recommendations for a standard -type sign to be manufac tured and distribu ted at cost
to Lodges of this jurisdiction upon request for installati~n ~t .the entrance
to towns or cities wherein a Masonic Lodge or Lodges exist givmg the name
or names of such Lodge or Lodges, location and where and when the same
meet.
Section 333u of the C.M.C. now permits the use of such signs subject
to the requirements of dignity and good taste. It is the opinion of this
Committee that the intent of the propone nts of this resolution to prevent
the erection of outsize and undesirable signs is most commendable.
However, the Committee believes that physical conditioD;s as to. s?rroundings available space the nature of the area and commumty restrictiv
e
legislatio~ may well vary' so widely that the design and manufac ture of a
standard -type sign would be impracticable.
I am authoriz ed to state that the Committee on Finance concurs in this
report.
The Committee on Policy and General Purpose s moves the adoption of
this resolution and recommends a "No" vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.
At 12: 20 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1:45 P.M.

326

327

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION - Thursday, October 14, 1971

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recognizes the need
for promoting Masonic relations and encouraging attendance at degree conferrals of fellow employees and business associates who are Master Maso?5.
This resolution extends to Masonic organimtions the privilege of mforming its membership the applicant'~ name and dates o! degree co~ferrals.
I move the adoption of the resolution and your Conumttee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.

At 1 :45 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on by the Grand Master, presiding.
This session was raised by N. W. Jacobsen, Master of Mosaic Lodge No. 218.
The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

ADVERTISING- PUBLICATIONS-APPLICANTS
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, under existing Masonic law, a Lodge alone has authority to
inform its own members of the names of its candidates and the dates of
conferral of the several degrees; and
WHEREAS, many Masonic associations exist for the primary purpose
of promoting Masonic fellowship and to encourage attendance at the Initiation, Passing and Raising of fellow employees or business associates; and
WHEREAS, there are good reasons for permitting Masonic associations,
under proper safeguards, to inform their members of the names of candidates
and dates of conferral of degrees on fellow employees or business associates;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that there be added to
Section 334 of the California Masonic Code (or the revised section) the
following paragraph:
"On obtaining permission of the Master of a Lodge in which a degree
is to be conferred, a Masonic association, which shall be an organized group
of Masons with common employment or profession and with a membership
of not less than twenty-five Master Masons of this jurisdiction in good
standing, may inform its members by bulletin or letter enclosed in sealed
envelopes, by United States mail, of the name of an elected candidate and
the dates of conferral of the several degrees."
Respectfully submitted,
ROBT. IRONS, S.W., No. 545
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution seeks to add to or revise Section 334 of the C.M.C. to
include the following paragraph:
"On obtaining permission of the Master of a Lodge in which a degree
is to be conferred, a Masonic association, which shall be an organized group
of Masons with common employment or profession and with a membership
of not less than twenty-five Master Masons of this jurisdiction in good
standing, may inform its members by bulletin or letter enclosed in sealed
envelopes, by United States mail, of the name of an elected candidate and
the dates of conferral of the several degrees."

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 11, proposes to amend Section 334 of the California
Masonic Code to permit Masonic Associations to inform their members of
the names of candidates and dates of conferral of degrees on fellow employees
or business associates.
The Committee on Jurisprudence offers the following Resolution:
RESOLVED that there be added at the end of Section 334 of the California Masonic Code the following:
"On obtaining permission of the Master of a Lodge in which a de~ee
is to be conferred 1 a Masonic association, which shall be an organized
group of Masons with common employment or profession and. ~th. a
membership of not less than twenty-five Master Masons of this Junsdiction in good standing, may inform its D;1embers by b~lletin, or by a
letter enclosed in a sealed envelope, by Umted States mail, of the name
of an elected candidate and the dates of conferral of the several degrees."
Adopted 5/6 vote.

CHANGE OF DUES- EFFECTIVE DATE
(12)
To the Most W<>rshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS current annotation Section 356b CMC - enacted in 1913,
does not now ~ppea.r applicable, being out of line with ~ording of du«:8
receipts as to time period covered, and furthermore, coilSlderable complication of records would or may have, ensued in connection with carrying
and collecting additiona.i sum within the current year involved,
BE IT RESOLVED that Section 356 CMC be a.mended as follows; Any
action by Lodges to change amount of annual dues, .s~fy effectiv~ date
as of January First of year following enactment of legislation to proVIde for
increased dues.
Demands for payment of additional a.mount covering increa.s~ is to apply
to members who had paid in advance for the year effected by the mcrease and
any year, or yea.rs, subsequent thereto.
. Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR SALOMON, P.M., No. 344
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General

Purposes.

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Section 356 of the California Masonic Code; specifically, Article IX,
Section I of the Ordinances; provides for the payment of annual Lodge
dues quarterly in advance. Under the provisions of Section 356 of the Code
as it now stands if an increase in dues is legislated and approved. it becomes
effective at the increased rate on the first day of the quarter next following.
The effect of this resolution would be to defer the effective due date of the
increase to the following January 1st even though the increase was voted.
and approved in the preceding January or February.
It is the opinion of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes that
while a probable great majority of our Brethren are able and do meet the
annual dues for the support of the Lodge and its obligations in a single payment it is, nonetheless, a regrettable fact that some of our older Brethren
living on limited. and fixed. incomes are unable to do so and we believe that
the Code provision of the payment of dues on a quarterly basis is wise and
fraternally considerate. Certainly, if a Lodge has determined. that a need
exists for increased revenue from dues and a necessary amendment is legislated, for example, in February there seems to be no substantial reason why
eleven months must elapse before that need can be met. The Code presently
provides for effective relief on the first day of the subsequent quarter.
It is the opinion of the Committee that fraternal consideration for the
whole membership far outweighs a possible, but improbable, "complication
of records" as referred to in this resolution. The Committee moves the adoption of this resolution and unanimously recommends a "No" vote.

greatest regard for the feelings of the deceased Brother's family and relatives
•
and
WHEREAS, Many Lodges in this jurisdiction are having trouble obtaining Officers and all too frequently even some of these Officers resign, and
WHEREAS, The Master of a Lodge has many duties to perform in addition to his ritual work and not all Masters are good ritualists, and
WHEREAS, Even an ordained Minister, Rabbi, or Priest who is qualified.
to conduct funerals reads the greater part of the service, and
WHEREAS, The California Masonic Code, Section 605 and 605-E states
that in the absence of the Master and Wardens any Mason may on such
occasion read the funeral service, and
WHEREAS, The California Masonic Code, Section 476 does not require
the Master-Elect to be proficient in the Masonic Funeral Service ·
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That the Maso~ic Funeral
Service may be read by any qualified. Master Mason and that the MasterElect need. not memorize the Masonic Funeral Service as a condition of
being certified. proficient in the Master's work.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK R. Mn.LER, J.W., No. 506
REx H. MINCHEFF, M., No. 506
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on Ritual.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.
(NOTE: See Grand Lecturer's report on this subject.)

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution proposes to cover the situation for the change in Lodge
dues and those members who have paid in advance. To implement this resolution your committee on Jurisprudence offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that annotation 356 b of the California Masonic Code be
and it is hereby deleted..
FURTHER RESOLVED, that section 356 of said code be and it is
hereby amended by adding thereto:
"Any change in said dues shall be effective on January I of the
year following the year in which such change is adopted. and shall be
payable even though a member has paid his dues for that year in
advance."
We offer the resolution without recommendation.
A majority voted. against the resolution.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION

FUNERAL SERVICE
(13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Many Masonic funerals are conducted annually in this
jurisdiction, and they should be conducted with the utmost dignity and

329

(14)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

. WHEREAS, Brotherly Love, Relief, and Truth, are taught as the principal tenets of our Fraternity, and

WHEREAS, Our present physical qualifications deny admission to many
good men and thereby abbrogate these tenets, and

WHEREAS, Such physical requirements serve no useful purpose as we
no longer work in opera~ve masonry but in speculative only, and
WHEREAS, We believe the lessons taught in Freemasonry to be more
hnportant than the manner of their being taught,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that present Sections numbered. 511
and 512 of the California Masonic Code with all annotations thereunder be
deleted and the following Sections, numbered 511 and 512, be substituted
therefor;
Sec. 511. An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must be a man· of
mor~ char~~ter; a .believer in God and a future existance; capabl~ of
readmg, writing, and supporting himself and family; and having no maim
or defect in mind or body which would render him incapable of learning
the lessons taught.

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sec. 512. The question as to the moral and physical sufficiency of the
applicant shall be left to the sound discretion of the Lodge. When the
applicant is unable to comply literally with the ritual requirements without
the aid of a prosthesis or hearing device, the Master shall state the nature
and extent of his disabilities to the Lodge before the ballot is taken and
any prosthesis or hearing device usually worn or used by the applicant
in the daily performance of his work may be used in receiving the degrees
of Masonry. No discrimination shall be made because of this issue. Where
such applicant receives a favorable ballot, the degrees shall be given
under directions from Grand Lodge so as to preserve the uniformity of
the ritual to the greatest extent possible.
Respectfully submitted,
KENNETH TuoMPsoN, P.M.,
]ACK T. EsToLL, P .M., No. 226
No. 226
H. M. DAVIES, M., No. 226
RoBT. B. CALDWELL, P.M., No. 226 ALBERT A. ULBRICH, P.M., No. 226
RALPH W. GAINES, P .M., No. 226
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, On Ritual, and Special Committee on Physical Qualification.

s~?uld or sho~ld ~ot modify our present law. It is also proposed that proper
liaison be mamtained between the committees to be involved in this work
and the Brethren who have served as members of the Special Committee on
Physical Qualifications.
. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes sincerely believes that
this proposed plan of procedure will provide a fair and proper as well as
non-emotional, approach to a determination of this issue.
'
Accordingly I move that copies of the Report of the Special Committee
on Physical Qualifications be distributed in mimeographed form to the Lodges
~d that~ Committees on J~~sprudence, Policy and General Purposes, and
Ritual be mstructed to meet 1omtly at a time sufficiently in advance of the
19.72 Annual Communi~ti?n to enable them to submit proper resolutions to
this Grand Lodge pertairung to the physical qualifications of Candidates
for the Degrees of Masonry in this jurisdiction.
By action of Grand Lodge, consideration of this resolution was deferred
until 1972 Communication.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolutions Nos. 14 and 15 pertain to our law respecting physical qualification of Candidates for the degrees of Masonry in this jurisdiction. Your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that action on these
two resolutions be deferred until the 1972 Annual Communication.
On Tuesday last you heard the full report of the Special Committee on
Physical Qualifications. It is a carefully prepared and thorough report,
presenting in a fine manner opposing views on this most difficult subject.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes proposes that mimeographed copies of this report be forthwith sent to every Lodge in this jurisdiction in order that the members of the Lodges may have the opportunity
of hearing or reading the report. In the judgment of this Committee two
important benefits would accrue:
1. The opportunity for thoughtful judgment of the issue by the members
of the Lodge and an instruction or indication to their Officers to guide
them as they may be called upon to vote on proposals being considered
by Grand Lodge.
2. The opportunity for Masonic education of the members of the Lodges
as many members may for the first time become aware of the history
and philosophy behind our law respecting physical qualifications.
We further propose that prior to the final date for submission of resolutions for action at the 1972 Annual Communication the Grand Lodge
Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes, and Ritual will
conduct a joint meeting to prepare a resolution, or resolutions, in proper
form for submission to the Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication
which will provide the opportunity for this Grand Lodge to determine if it

331

. .(NOTE: _The Committees .to whom this resolution was referred verbally
indicated their concurrence with the recommendations of procedure set out
above. See also the reports by members of the Special Committee on Physical
Qualifications under "Unfinished Business".)

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION
(15)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Many worthy and well-qualified men who have been disabled in wars in the defense of our country, and other similarly worthy and
Well-qualified men who through mis-fortune have suffered physical impairment requiring the need for prosthesis, and are currently restricted from
applying for the degrees of Masonry, and
. WHEREAS, Since we no longer work in operative Masonry but speculative only, this restriction is now obsolete, and
WHEREAS, In numerous Masonic jurisdictions around the world with
whom we are in fraternal accord, have eliminated this restriction without
detriment to the Craft and without incurring the displeasure of the rest of
the Masonic fraternity, and
WHEREAS, It is now one of our basic and universally accepted teachings
and precepts that it is the internal and not the external qualifications which
recommend a man to be made a Mason, and
WHEREAS, Section 511 and 512 of the C.M.C. regulations "having no
maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable of learning the
art, and physically able to conform substantially to what the several degrees
respectively require of him" would be conformed to if the candidate would
be permitted to use prosthesis while taking the degrees of Masonry.

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THEREFO RE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the question as to the physical
sufficiency of the applicant shall be left to ·the sole discretion of the Lodge.
The Master shall state the nature and extent of the disabilities to the Lodge
before ballot is taken,
BE IT FURTHE R RESOLVED, that all references, rules and regulations
pertaining to physical restrictions of Masonic candidates be rescinded.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE A. JURGENS, P.M., No. 491
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, on Ritual, and Special Committee on Physical Qualifications.
By action of Grand Lodge, consideration of this resolution was deferred
until 1972 Communication.
(NOTE: See action by Grand Lodge on Resolution 14.)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes to reduce the minimum age for applicants for
)fasonry among DeMolays who have reached the age of 19 years and details
certain other requirements. The Section cited therein incorrectly refers to
Article V, Section 208 as contained in the Ross Digest whereas the proper
citation is Article V, Section 511-a, of the California Masonic Code.
It is recognized that some Grand Jurisdictions accept applicants of 18
years of age and older. It is the opinion of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes that if it is desirable to reduce the age limit for DeMolays
it should be desirable to similarly accept all applicants of the same age. To
limit the age reduction to DeMolays only would create two classes of applicants and we believe this to be contrary to Masonic principles.
I move the adoption of this Resolution. The Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.

REDUCE AGE LIMIT- DE MOLAYS

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 16 was referred to the Jurisprudence Committee. This
Resolution proposes to amend Section 511 of the California Masonic Code.
The Committee on Jurisprudence offers the following Resolution:
RESOLVED that Section No. 511 of the California Masonic Code be
amended by inserting after the word "man" in the second line the
following:
"who has reached the age of twenty-one years, or a man who is a
member of the International Order of DeMolay in good standing
and has been in good standing for the preceding three years and has
reached the age of nineteen years.", and
BE IT FURTHE R RESOLVED that Annotation 5lla be deleted.
The Special DeMolay Liaison Board did not report.
A majority voted against the resolution.

(16)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, The ancient laws, charges and usages of Freemasonry vary
in certain specifics, we find no variation in the requirements that a candidate for membership be a man, freeborn, a man of good repute, a man
without blemish, a good and true man, or a man of mature and discreet age;
and
WHEREAS, Grand Lodge of California now has Masonic communications, and gives Masonic recognition to Grand Jurisdictions which do not
restrict membership to men of twenty-one years of age, but on the contrary
accept qualified candidates to membership from the age of eighteen years;
and
WHEREAS, The advancement of the welfare of Freemasonry in California would be promoted by the acceptance of well qualified De Molays who
have reached the age of nineteen years;
BE IT THEREFO RE RESOLVED that Article V Section 208 of Ordinances of the Grand Lodge of California be amended to read as follows:
"An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must be a MAN who has
reached the age of twenty-one years, OR one who is a De Molay in good
standing and has been in good standing for the immediate previous three
years, and has reached the age of nineteen years - "No further addition
or change is proposed. This resolution suggests or implies no right, privilege
or responsibility to be effected by membership in The Order of DeMolay.
Respectfully submitted,
RoBERT W. BECKWITH , P.M., No. 486
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, and Special DeMolay Liaison Board.

333

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR DEGRE ESPROFICIENCY REQUIRED
(17)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, some Master Masons postpone becoming proficient in the
Third Degree; and
WHEREAS, those who are Master Masons should be fully aware of the
psponsibilities they assume at the conclusion of the Third Degree; and
WHEREAS, those who take the Third Degree proficiency examination
do become more fully informed of their Masonic responsibilities; and
WHEREAS, education and knowledge of such responsibilities are the
key to the fulfillment of Masonic effectiveness;

334

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, That each newly raised
Mason b~ required to become proficient in the Third Degree as well as the
First and Second before being acknowledged as a Master Mason.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the appropriate additions, deletions,
or adjustments be made in our Masonic Law and/or Ritual to accomplish the
intent of this resolution.
Respectfully submitted,
EMILE R. LAVERSIN, P.M., No. 1
W. F. POYNTER, P.M., No. 545
CLARENCE M. GARDNER, P.M., No. 454
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, and on Ritual.

The Committee <m Ritual:
Practically all of the Third Degree ritual is aimed at informing the Candidate that he is now as much a Master Mason as he ever shall be.
Portions of the Master's work of the Third Degree would have to be
changed to conform' to the intent of this resolution, as would the monitorial
"Master's congratulation to the newly raised Master Mason."
Under the conditions imposed by this resolution a Candidate would not
be permitted to sign the Lodge by-laws. What if the Candidate should ?ie
before giving the Third Degree proficiency? He could not then be buried
with Masonic honors.
Longevity toward receiving Veteran Awards would not commence until
the Candidate had given Third Degree proficiency, which in some cases
would run one or more years.
Many would not give Third Degree proficiency at all. This would cause
loss of membership to Lodges.
It is most desirable that the Candidate give Third Degree proficiency but
he can be educated in Masonic responsibility without so doing. This resolution presents far too many complications. We, therefore, urge a "No" vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 17 proposes that before a newly raised Mason may be
acknowledged as a Master Mason, he must pass a proficiency exami~ti~n in
the Third Degree in addition to the First and Second Degree exammations.
In 19391 it w~s proposed to Grand Lodge that after a candidate received
the degree 0£ Master Mason, he would be required to pass a ~tis~actory
Third Degree proficiency examination before being congratulated, signing the
Lodge's By-Laws, or becoming a member of the Lodge.
.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes at that time recommended
a "no" vote, and a majority voted against the resolution. The basis of the
Committee's opinion was, primarily, that such an amendment would create
a new class of Mason, one in which the candidate had been obligated and
raised as a Master Mason and entrusted with all the secrets of that degree;
and yet, not being a m~ber of his Lodge, po~ibly for reasons ~ond his
control, the candidate's status would be unaffiliated and unrecognized.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

335

The present proposed resolution goes even a step further, in withholding
i.citnowledgement as a Master Mason entirely until the proficiency is passed,
despite the fact that the candidate has been so obligated. It is also noted
that no proposal has been made to require the passing of a First or Second
Degree proficiency before recognizing a candidate as, respectively, an Entered
Apprentice Mason or a Fellowcraft Mason; although the logic involved would
appear to have similar merit.
I therefore move the adoption of this resolution, and your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 17 was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Their Resolution proposes that newly raised Masons be required to take
the Third Degree Proficiency examination before they can be acknowledged
as a Master Mason.
The Jurisprudence Committee offers the following Resolution to carry
out the purpose of resolution.
RESOLVED that Section 347 of the California Masonic Code be amended
as follows:
After the word "Lodge" in the second line insert the following:
"and who passed an examination in the Candidate's lecture of the Degree
of Master Mason.", and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 431 of the California Masonic Code be amended by inserting at the end of subsection 1st the following:
"and having passed an examination in the Candidate's Lecture of the
Degree of Master Mason.", and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 571 of the California Masonic Code be amended as follows:
after the word "following" in the third line the following language:
"the passing of an examination in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree
of Master Mason after".
A majority voted against the resolution.

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR DEGREESPROFICIENCY NOT REQUIRED
(18)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, The proficiency in the lecture of the Third Degree, being
compulsory and prerequisite to receiving higher degrees or applying for
membership in other branches of Masonry, tends to penalize these affiliate
bodies, and
WHEREAS, Masonry in general, particularly the higher degrees, would
benefit by receiving more applications for membership, and

337

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS More Third Degree Masons would apply for the higher
degrees if the demonstration of the proficiency in the lecture of the Third
Degree were not a prerequisite of such application,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED The California Code be amended as
necessary to make it no longer compulsory for a Third De~ee Mas~n to
prove proficiency in the lecture of that d~ree ~fore a~plymg for higher
degrees or for membership in other Masoruc affiliated bodies.
Respectfully submitted,
EVERETT L. STARKEBAUM, P.M.,
WM. A. GOODFELLOW, p .M.,
No. 248
No. 248
JAMES H. DIPPERY, J.W., No. 248
CHARLES LEDERER, P.M., No. 248
RALPH V. BAIRD, P.M., No. 248
G. C. HART, P.M., No. 248
WM. M. CLARK, P.M., No. 248
ESTLE .ARGABRIGHT, P.M., No. 248
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, and on Ritual.

organization, the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a
~~ter !"fason, until you have given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination m open Lodge, that you are entirely proficient and well qualified in
the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason and in no event
within 12 months after you have received the Degree of Master Mason?"
Your Committee believes the study and recital of the Master Mason
Degree, just as the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees, contribute
greatly to a brother's understanding of Freemasonry and its principles.
Without this solid foundation of comprehension no Mason can be a worthy
applicant for any other body of Masonry.
We suggest greater encouragement and assistance for the newly raised
Master Mason so he may complete his labors, as a far better solution than
abolishing the proficiency requirement.
I move the adoption of the Resolution and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes unanimously recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution proposes to make it no longer compulsory for a Third
Degree Mason to prove proficiency in the lecture of the third degree before
applying for higher degrees or for membership in other Masonic affiliated
bodies. To implement this resolution, your Committee on Jurisprudence
offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that Question 15 in Section 527 of the California Masonic
Code be amended to read as follows:
15. Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any degrees
or be initiated to any Lodge, Order or organization, the prerequisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, within twelve
months after you have received the Degree of Master Mason?
We offer this resolution without recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

336

The Committee on Ritual:
Proficiency in the third degree is required to assure Masons a thoro~gh
knowledge of the regular Lodge before moving into the Concordant Bodies.
It was not aimed at penalizing any appendant organization.
To lower standards which are presently acceptable can in no way benefit
Masonry; on the contrary, it would prove to be harmful in ~~t it would
remove or reduce the possibility of newly raised Brothers receiving further
light in Masonry which is available only in contemplation and study of the
lessons of the first three degrees. This is the basis of Freemasonry.
.
The Constituent Lodge is not obligated in any way to push membership
in the so called "higher bodies" of Masonry.
It would be a gross injustice to thousands of Masons who have been
required to give proficiency in the third degree b~fore petitioni1?g for membership in other bodies, if we now abandon this useful ~equ~rement and
allow all others to simply slide through. It would destroy pnde m those who
have shown proficiency and if they are not sufficiently interested in Masonry
to do so then they certainly could not be a very good member of another
organizatlon which incidentally, steadfastly clings to the requirem~nt that
a petitioner for membership in those bodies must be a member m good
standing of a regular Lodge of Masons.
We recommend a "No" vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution requests that the proficiency in the lecture of the Master
Mason Degree no longer can be compulsory "before applying for higher
degrees." We are unaware of any degrees higher than that of the Master
Mason.
In applying for the degrees of Masonry the can~date is requi~ed to
answer in the affirmative question 15: "Do you pronnse that you will not
apply for or receive any degree, or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or

SHORTEN FORFEITURE PERIOD
(19)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of CaU/ornia:
WHEREAS instances of unreported prolonged illness had caused failure
of notice of forfeiture of fees to come into hands of a worthy and interested
candidate,
BE IT RESOLVED the following be appropriately added to Section 546

™C·

'

' A Candidate whose fees had been declared forfeited may, within one

year after date of such declaration, submit request for restoration in form
of Application for Affiliation, accompanied by fee designated in By-laws
of Lodge for such application, plus Candidates Contribution (currently
35.00).

338

PROCEEDINGS 01' THE

Investigation of such application must include establishment of definite proof that failure of candidate to have responded to the advance
notice of forfeiture was caused by conditions beyond his control, such
as serious illness or other valid reasons, causing failure of the notice to
come to his attention.
Additionally, Master is to determine that candidate is in current F,sition to proceed to prepare himself for advancement through remain.mg
degrees immediately after election, and that he exhibits sincere determination to so proceed.
Respectfully submitted,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

339

"This provision is similarly applicable to Fellow Crafts who indicate
lack of interest in advancing to Third Degree."
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH J. Sn.vERM:AN, M., No. 344 LESTER T. GoLDM:EYER, P .M.,
PAULL. MAsLov, S.W., No. 344
No. 344
ALLAN N. MooRE, J.W., No. 344
RONALD J. MIGUEL, P.M., No. 344
SAMUEL SHEFF, P.M., No. 344
ARTHUR SALOMON, P.M., No. 344
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
!Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

ARTHUR SALOMON, P.M., No. 344
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

SHORTEN FORFEITURE PERIOD
(20)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, When a Candidate definitely expresses lack of interest in
placing himself in position to advance through the Second and Third Deg~ees,
either by ignoring contacts or communications, or through verbal or written
assertions to said effect, thus evidencing consent to forfeiture, or in any other
manner refuses to progress, actual current experience has demonstrated
futility of adhering to the five year period specified in Section 546, CMC,
before declaration of forfeiture of fees, and
WHEREAS, The continued listing of such disinterested candidate obviously prompts each succeeding Master to uselessly, and at times over
zealously solicit revival of interest (if such ever existed) damaging Masonic
dignity.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, That Section 546, CMC, First
paragraph after "will be declared forfeited" be supplemented as follows:
"Provided however that any time subsequent to his Initiation, a
Candidate, unless he is stationed abroad in U. S. Armed Forces or is
otherwise temporarily employed abroad, definitely indicates, by ignoring
written or verbal request from within the Lodge that he prepare himself
for advancement, or by verbal or written declarations makes it clear that
he has no intent to make such preparation, thereby evidencing consent
to forfeiture, the Master may direct Secretary at any time subsequent to
such indicated consent, to forward to such candidate a notice in the form
and manner hereinbefore specified".

FOLLOWING FORFEITURE PERMIT REINSTATEMENT WITHIN ONE YEAR
(21)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California :
WHEREAS, when a Candidate definitely expresses lack of interest in
placing himself in position to advance through the Second and Third Degrees,
either by ignoring contacts or communications or through verbal or written
assertions to said effect, thus evidencing consent to forfeiture, or in any other
manner refuses to progress, actual current experience demonstrates the
futility of adhering to the five year period specified in Section 546, CMC,
before declaration of forfeiture of fees, and
WHEREAS, the continued listing of such disinterested Candidate obviously prompts each succeeding Master to uselessly, and at times, over zealous
solicitation of revival of interest (if such originally existed) causing effect
on Masonic dignity,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that Section 546, CMC, First Paragraph after "will be declared forfeited" be supplemented as follows; " . . .
provided however that at anytime subsequent to his Initiation, a Candidate,
unless he's stationed abroad in U.S. Armed Forces or is otherwise temporarily
employed abroad, definitely indicates by ignoring written or verbal requests
from within the Lodge that he prepare himself for advancement, or by verbal
or written assertions makes it clear that he has no intent to make such
l'feparation, thereby evidencing consent to forfeiture, the Master may direct
Secretary at any time subsequent to such indicated consent, to forward to
such candidate a notice in the form and manner hereinbefore specified".
Respectfully submitted,
RoBT. B. CALDWELL, P.M., No. 226 ARTHUR SALOMON, P.M., No. 344
}ACK T. EsTOLL, P.M., No. 226
H. M. DAvrs, M ., No. 226
RALPH W. GAINES, P.M., No. 226 ALBERT A. UHLRICH, P.M., No. 226
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

340

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General P'IWposes:
Resolution No. 21 proposes revision of Section 546 California Masonic
Code which now provides that if a candidate does not present himself properly
qualified for the Second and Third Degrees within a period of five years
subsequent to his initiation all fees and contributions shall be declared forfeited. This resolution proposes reducing the five-year period to two years
except where extenuating circumstances are shown to exist or where a candidate verbally states his intention not to proceed.
It is the opinion of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes that
no particular good will redound either to the Fraternity or to such Lodges
as may presently be affected by the application of Section 546. It opens the
door, moreover, to question as to the validity of claimed extenuating circumstances or the evaluation of alleged verbal statements of no interest in
completing the Degrees. Shortening the period will carry no significant financial advantage to the Lodge and remedial physical or mental treatment
that might well be impossible in two years might result favorably in the
course of five years.
I move the adoption of this resolution. The Committee recommends a
"No" vote.

FEES FOR DEGREES- SENIOR DE MOLAYS

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which was referred Resolution
No. 21 reports as follows:
The proposed legislation appears to be sufficient to carry out the intent
of the proponents but should be clarified in some particu1ars and the proponents have requested an amendment. Your Committee accordingly presents
the following revised resolution.
"RESOLVED, that the first paragraph of Section 546, C.M.C. be
amended by inserting after "will be declared forfeited" the words "provided however, that if, at any time subsequent to his initiation, a candidate,
unless he is stationed abroad in the United States Armed Forces or is otherwise temporarily employed abroad, definitely indicates, by ignoring written
or verbal requests from within the Lodge that he prepare himself for
advancement, or by verbal or written declarations makes it clear that he
has no intention to make such preparation, thereby evidencing consent
to forfeiture, the Master, at any time subsequent to such indicated consent,
may direct the Secretary to forward to such candidate a notice in the
form and manner herein before specified. This provision also applies to
Fellow Crafts who likewise indicate a lack of interest in advancing to
the Third Degree."
A majority voted against the resolution.

341

(22)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Membership attrition has exceeded recruitment in many
of the constituent Lodges; and
WHEREAS, DeMolay members who have attained to legal age are often
interested in becoming members of Masonic Lodges; and
WHEREAS, A large percentage of these potential members are lost to
Masonry because of a prohibitive initiation fee;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that constituent Lodges may, at
their option, be allowed to accept $35.00 as full initiation fee from Senior
DeMolays in good standing and under the age of 25.
Respectfully submitted,
EVERETT L. STARKEBAUK, M., No. 248
]AMES H. DIPPERY, J.W., No. 248
WM. A. Gooon:LLow, P .M.,
RALPH V. BAIRD, P.M., No. 248
No. 248
WM. M. CLARK, P.M., No. 248
CHARLES LEDERER, P.M., No. 248
ESTLE ARGABRIGHT, P.M., No. 248
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, and Special DeMolay Liaison Board.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 22 proposes that constituent Lodges, at their option, be
allowed to accept $35.00 as full initiation fee from senior DeMolays in good
standing under age 25.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that no economic distinction should be made among applicants.
We would also call to your attention the fact that the Homes contribution
fee of $25.00 and the fee of $1.00 for the George Washington National
Memorial and $9.00 for the use and benefit of the California Masonic
Memorial Temple would consume the entire initiation fee as proposed by this
tesolution.
I move the adoption of the resolution.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No"
vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which was referred Resolution
No. 22 reports and submits legislation to carry out the intention of the
proponents as follows:
RESOLVED, that Section 354 C.M.C. be amended by inserting after
the word "do11ars" in line 2 "except that said fees for a Senior DeMolay
in good standing who is under the age of 25 years at the time his application for the degrees is received by the Lodge shall be not less

342

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

than $ .......... ", and that Section 552 C.M.C. be amended by
inserting after the first three sentences, "Any Lodge may confer the
three degrees on a Senior DeMolay in good standing who is under the
age of 25 years at the time his application for the degrees is received by
the Lodge, for a fee of not less than $35.00.
The Special DeMolay Liais<>n Board did not report.
A majority voted against the resolution.

INSTALLAT ION SERVICE
(23)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Many years have passed since our present Installation
service for Constituent Lodges was adopted, and no thought has been given
to reviewing this important ceremony, and
WHEREAS, A great number of Brethren now feel that our Constituent
Lodge Officers should be installed in the same order as our Grand Lodge
Officers, thereby assuring greater uniformity of our Installation services,
and
WHEREAS, It is felt that Honor is more properly reflected upon the
Worshipful Master if his Installation is the climax of the Installation
ceremony, as opposed to being installed first in order, and
WHEREAS, Practically no change would be required in the Ritual
of the Installation save that of reversing the order of Installation of the
Officers;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the printed Installation
Service for Constituent Lodges, as adopted in 1946, and amended in 1957,
be now amended as follows:
The present order of Installation shall be reversed to install the Officers
of the Lodge commencing with the Tiler, and concluding with the Worshipful Master, and appropriate explanatory footnotes added to each page
to clarify all movements and Ritual.
Respectfully submitted,
H. DouGLAS LEMONS, P.M., No. 699
BERTRAM C. :voNKoNsKY, P.M.,
WALLACE H. F'Isu, P.M., No. 391
No. 260
GEORGE W. PERKINs, P.M., No. 378
EnwARD E. SEAGLE, P.M., No. 730 ERNEST M. NEWTON, P.M.,
ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS, P.M.,
No. 296
No. 260
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 23 proposes that the present Installation Service for
Constituent Lodges be amended so as to reverse the present order of Inc

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

343

stallation of Officers, to commence with the Tiler, and conclude with the
Worshipful Master.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion that
the ideal time for the Installation of the Worshipful Master is at the conclusion rather than at the opening of the Installation ceremonies. I therefore
move the adoption of this resolution, and your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote. We further recommend ~t
the Ritual Committee be authorized and requested to make appropnate
corrections and revisions to the Installation Service.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

(24)
A resolution designated as No. 24, submitted. in time by its proponent and
distributed to the constituent Lodges, was ruled out-of-order by the Grand
Master. It was not considered by Grand Lodge.

REMISSION OF DUES IN ADVANCE
(25)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California :
WHEREAS Lodges may annually remit the accrued dues of those of its
members who ;re unable to pay them (Sec. 577), and such remission must
be at the June Stated Meeting (Sec. 577-a); and
WHEREAS, By such procedure the brothers whose du~ have been so
remitted have an up-to-date dues receipt for only a few days m June of each
year; and
WHEREAS Probably very few Masons know that they can attend Lodge
and visit others' with a membership card that is up to a year in arrears; and
WHEREAS Even if they know this fact, no Mason wants to visit a Lodge
and show by hi; card that he is one who allows his dues to become in arrears;
and
WHEREAS 1 Under Sect. 577 we have thus created a group of "Second
Class Masons" who are not only in straitened circumstances financially, but
who cannot pr~udly present their membership cards when desiring to hold
Masonic communication with their brethren;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That Sec. 577-a be deleted; and
the first paragraph of Sec. 577 be amended to read as follows:
"A Lodge may annually remit the accrued dues of those of its members
who are unable to pay them; and in addition may remit the dues of such
members in advance to the end of the calendar year in which the action is
taken. Such action should be taken at the January Stated Meeting if

346

PROCEEDINGS OF TH E

citie
ewed the histo of
.
Haws,aii,revi
and exam
ining th~ re :r:
u~ers and their relief in California ancl
Board of Control did una nk
1 all Boards of Relief submitted to the
Relief be abolished, and ( 2)
rm~ec~mmend f:bat ( 1) All Boards of
and
accomplished by June 30, 197<>1
The Committee Poli
~~BWH
oarERE
d~ AS,
of Relief be continuon
ed unt ifsan~ ~neral Purposes reco
m e Spe oal Committee's Report
mm
are r u 1 edme as the problems descended
ribed
WHEREAS, the different Speci 1
appointed in 1970 presented Resolu C eso ~ was adopted, and
~on ~ttee to Study Boards of Relief
WHEREAS a
o. 32, and
Committee has ' r ~rti
edon of said resolutio
n states that "WHEREAS
had .
ecei
v
man
y
rs and
tii;ne after receiving them tolette
.
stud
th r~o~endation
s but has' the
of Relief, meet with those who sh
1 y e activities of the various Boanot
rds
of the Lodges which wrote the co
:!t : consulted, fully consider the
views
to cover the subject, but feel that
October 1970 Annual Communicat b . and. prepare their report in which
i as1c legtslation should be befo
re the
of the Committee to present thi
on
therefore requested the Chairman
majority of the Lodges which wr~~esto
thutiocn to P.resent the views of a grea
WHEREAS "th
t
. o e ommittee" and
Co
.
'
e
t ma1ority of th Lo
. n;mnttee" consists ofgrea
less than 2oot. f the dges' which
diction, and
wrote
.
1° 0
e total Lodges in this toJurithe
sEREAS, The Board of Control wh
volvWH
ed with
.
the Boards of R r f
'
o is closer and more deeply . No. 32, and
e ie recommended a "No
" vote on Resolud:n
WHEREAS, at the 1958 Annual
r~ol?tion was adopted that uded fullC::u mc.ati
on of Grand Lodge a
within the Masonic Homes incl
of Calif •
~ployees of Boards
of Relief
to be borne by a contribution of 3
%orma Retirement Plan and said
costs
to be borne by the Grand Lodge an~
for each employee and the other cost
s
WHERE
The Commit~ on Retiremen
the Annual AS,
.
.
Communication
in 1970
t Pla n within
r report at
p~rt to amend the law of this
GranJ~nted . a resolutionthei
which would
with Secti~n 104 of our California
90 day notice to the Grand Secre Maso . ge without ~egard for complying
me Code, which requires at least
vote of the members present, and tary
, or as an emergent matter a five/six
th
WH
AS,
implementation of thi d ..
employeERE
es of Boathe
rds
of
Relief
s a ditional retirement cost of
servi
~
upon a very few
ces ,or So1• ourners from othe
Lod
r
Lod
g
• • g.es,. who are performing
charge for such service, and
es within this Jurisdiction, with no
WHE~S, Resolution No.
will enlar
~°:"1'~ of Relief to perform additi32 nal
•
d . ge the pernutte
1unsdiction, NOW
d duti of a
0
uties for the other Lodges es
in this
TH EFO RE BE IT RESOLVE
by thisER
Grand Lodge that Section 60~' ~t .
ifthR ution No. 32 is adopted
ur eresol
amended by deleting the

r::::: °

:n?

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI
A

347

Jast portion of the first sentence "wh
erein they may provide, among othe
thin gs, for paying the expenses
r
of the work in such manner as shal
l seem
PJOl>el'" and substituting therefore "an d such
necessary expenses for operation and maintenance of said approve
d Boards of Relief shall be provided
and budgeted by the Grand Lodge and
on a per capita basis on every Mas said budgeted amount will be assessed
ter Mason on the rolls of the Lod
ges
in this jurisdiction, except those
whose dues shall have bee n remitted
by
theirBE
Lod
ge"FU
and
IT
RT HE R RESOLVED, that a new
sentence be added immediately after the preceding sentence
consisting of "Any funds, stock, savi
ngs,
trust funds and other income pres
ently held or in the future received
by
Boards of Relief shall be placed und
er control of the Grand Lodge for
use
in operating said Boards of Relief,
with the exception that if any trus
t is
specific in purpose for the use of a
certain Board it shall be so used inso
far
as practical in meeting the expenses
of that Board of Relief".
Respect fully submitted,
.All.THUR E. WEm, M., No. 336
RoBERT D. RnIEN, P.M., No. 336
LAWRENCE N. FARRELL, J.W.,
DANA "A" 'fuRPIN, P.M., No. 336
No. 336
PAUL A. BaoM, P.M., No. 336
HAROLD E. lL\IUUS, S.W., No. 336
JoBN W. HANSFORD, P.M., No. 336
ELWIN c. LAMP, P.M., No. 401
TuEoDORE s. BEAN, P.M., No. 336
Referred to Committees on Jurispru
dence, on Policy and General Pur
poses, on Finance, and the Board of Con
trol.
The Committee on Policy and Gen
Purposes:
The first resolve of Resolution eral
No. 26 proposes, subject to the ado
ption
of Resolution No. 32, that Section
of the California Masonic Code be
further amended to provide that the 603
Grand
pay the expenses of approved Boards Lodge will reimburse and thereby
expenses to be funded by a per capita of Relief in this jurisdiction, such
assessment on every Master Mason
on the rolls of the Lodges in this juri
sdiction, except those whose dues sha
ll
have been remitted by their Lodge.
It is the opinion of your Committ
ee on Policy and General Purposes
that the basic philosophy upon whi
ch the formation of Boards of Reli
ef is
predicated, and the purposes for whi
implemented and served if the sub ch they are perpetuated, could be best
ject Boards were to remain on a
selfsustaining basis, deriving necessatY
funds from the Lodges within thei
r own
Jurisdiction. Thi s philosophy wou
ld
Grand Master in his recommendatio conform to that expressed by the
ns concerning expenses of Boards
of
Relief, cost of Endowment Fun d coll
dation expenses; and coincides with ections and California Masonic Founthe recommendations of your Committ
ee
on Policy and General Purposes as
a matter of sound fiscal policy.
The second resolve of Resolution No.
26 proposes in par t that any assets
or income of the Boards of Relief
" •.. shall be placed under the con
trol of
the Grand Lodge for use in operating
such Boards of Relief ..•"

348

349

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

While your Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs in the
concept that large funds should be placed under the control and safekeeping
of the Grand Lodge, for use of the respective Boards, we find that to achieve
this would require a new and more properly worded resolution than that
contained in the second resolve. Such a resolution can be best introduced
at the next Annual Communication.
I now move the adoption of Resolution No. 26 and your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes unanimously recommends a "No" vote.
The Committees on Jurisprudence and Finance have authorized me to
inform you that they concur in the recommendation of the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes.
The Board of Control verbally indicated its concurrence with the report
of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
A majority voted against the resolution.

Report by Grand Chaplain Rowland R. Bach:
Attention is again invited to Page 8 of the Funeral Service F. & A. M.,

AMEND FUNERAL SERVICE
(27)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the fourth word of the thirteenth line on Page Seven of the
FUNERAL SERVICE as revised by Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California
October 1955, hereinafter referred to as the Manual, is SPIRIT, and
WHEREAS, the third word of the first line on Page Eight of the Manual
is SPIRIT. One is given to understand that the SPIRIT has winged its
flight to the unknown world; that the SPIRIT has returned to God who
gave it, and
WHEREAS, the fourth word of the third line on Page Eight of the
Manual is SOUL. One is given to understand that it is the SOUL which is
being commended to Almighty God, and
WHEREAS, the third word of the third line on Page Fifteen of the
Manual is SPIRIT. One is immediately aware that: (1) The liberated
SPIRIT is gone ..• it has flown away • . . it has "winged its flight to the
unknown world." (2) The SPIRIT is gone .•• it is not here ••. it has
"returned to God who gave it." And, (3) That at the casket it was the
SOUL which was commended; i.e. "Almighty Father, unto Thy hands we
commend the SOUL of our beloved brother."
BE IT THEREFOR E RESOLVED THAT: In order to conform to the
aforementioned wording and uniformity the third word of the third line
on Page Fifteen of the Manual be amended from SPIRIT to SOUL. And
that the amended wording be caused to read: " •.. commending bis SOUL to
Almighty God .•• ~,,
Respectfully submitted,
PATRICK A. WALTERS, M., No. 30
Referred to the Grand Chaplain and the Committee on Ritual.

where we read:
"Almighty Father I Into Thy hands we
commend the soul of our beloved Brother"
and to Page 15 of the same Ritual where we read:
"We shall ever cherish in our hearts the
memory of our departed Brother and,
commending bis spirit to Almighty God,
we trustingly leave him ..•."
The question is now raised as to whether the word. "soul" or whe~er
the word "spirit" should be used in both instances, creating what the wnter
· d esires,
·
" a um'fomu'ty" ·
of this Resolution
. d " · · ,,
A definition of "soul" and "spirit" is nece~Y· To ?ur nun
spmt
is the breath of God breathed into man as we read m Genesis:
"And God breathed into man the breath of
. . soul" ·
life and man became a 1ivmg
.
w understand "soul" then to mean that which man creates of himself
or his eego. "Spirit" is that part of God which each o~ us possesses. ~!n:!
this "spirit" automatically returns to God. In our Ritual we then c
thi " l" to Almighty God. The "spirit" has already return~ to God.
our popular conception of "spirit" is the aura which s?I'rounds. a
'
peak of the fine "spirit" of a man and when we think of him
man so we s
..
'ch · t bi
It i's that
as ~ individual we think of the "sJ.?mt"
~bi
amma es m.
which he puts into his work and puts mto his play. . •
"
,,
.
w·th these two definitions of "spirit" and the defirution of soul as given
herei; we feel that it is well that we "commend the soul" to God and ~so
tommend "the spirit" meaning thereby that which animated man. In off~:g
this we recognize that the true "spirit of man" or the God element Wl n
man has already returned to the Creator.
I move the adoption of the Resolution but recommend a ccNo" vote._
•
I am authorized to report that The Committee on Ritual concurs m this
recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

sN::

REPEAL CERTAIN TRIAL SECTIONS C.M.C.
(28)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
.
WHEREAS, Section 732 of the California Masonic Code, which p~ovi~es
for automatic expulsion of a member of the Grand Lodg~ of Califo~a,
F · & A· M · upon conviction of a felony has caused confusion, uncertainty
d inequities among the members and attempts to make p1'ecemeal amend:"ent to that section fail to relieve the confusion and uncertainty; and

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
. .
WHE REAS , the amen dmen ts to the Califo . . ~asomc Code of 1965,
rrua
et seq, have create d simplified roced
are Just as exped itious as
those provi ded in Section 732 etpseq · urdes that
'an '
· '
WHE R
. .
ances . f th
EAS, the Conu ruttee on Griev
e opm10n that Section
is. o
I'
ns
sectio
732 and the subse quent
ng. that canno t be as easi:ty
accom plishe d by the other sectiaccom f ish nothi
mc Code relati ve to unMaso
the
onsfo
Maso nic condu ct and the trial thereo.
NOW , THE REFO RE BE IT RE SOLV ED, that Sections 732, 733, 734
'
and 735 be repealed,

Respectfully submitted
A. J. McCoURTNEY, P.M., No. 437
]

Refer red to the Comm ittees

on

Purposes, and on Grievances.

.
unspr udenc e, on Polic y and General

The C?mmittee on Jurisprudence :

.
This resolu tion propo ses to repea l certai n sectio ns of the California
.
Maso nic Code relati ng to autom ati
ion upon convi ction of a felony
The propo nents believe that thi c expulS
· ·
be handl. ed by o ther sectio
can
r
matte
s
ns
·
of th Code. To imple ment this resolution
e
ce
ruden
Jurisp
on
ruttee
Conu
your
,
offers the following resolu tion:
RESO LVED , that Sections 732 133 134 and 135 of the Califo rnia
'
Maso nic Code be and they are h ere'by repea
led
.'
h
that
FUR THE R RESO LVED
annhotations to Sections 732, 733,
734 and 735 of said Code be and thtey eare
ereby delete d
.
We offer this resolution witho ut recom mend ati
on.
Th ommittees on Policy and General p
e
es and on Grievances verbally concu rred with the remar ks f th ] .""Pos
e Comm ittee.
udenc
unspr
e
o
Adop ted 5/6 vote.

c

·

APP ROP RIA TION TO
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOU NDA TION
(29)
F & A M JC 1:1 • '
Lodge
Grand
l
hipfu
Wors
To the Most
· · o a"1 ornul
' ·

.
d .
WHE REAS , The Califo rnia Maso · F
~tion was create d by action
taken at the 1967 and 1968 Ann al C mc o~n ons of the Grand Lodge of
ommu mcati
u
Califo rnia;
AND WHE REAS , It was the recom m da .
n of the SJ?00:11 Comm ittee
of Gr~d Lodg e regul arly adopt ed in ~n!~
Comm umca tion that the
.
Calif:
of
Maso mc Clubs at the Unive rsity
ey. and Los Angeles
Berk~l
at
?e sold and the proce eds from the sale or~a
mcom e from said
with
te?,
1nves
h;
mves tment to be used to fund th
Foun datio n Schol arship
mc
Maso
orma
J
e
Fund ;

ean

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

351

of the comm ittee adopt ed
AND WHE REAS , It was the recom mend ation
used in the maint enanc e
se
expen
l
annua
by Grand Lodg e that the $50,000
ued each year and turne d
of the two disco ntinue d Maso nic Clubs be contin
ees for use in its schol arship
over to the Califo rnia Maso nic Found ation Trust
progr am;
the Grand Lodge did not
AND WHE REAS , The Finan ce Comm ittee of
Grand Lodge and the
the
of
comply with the wishes and recom mend ations
California Masonic
the
to
nt
amou
ted
Comm ittee and reduc ed the budge
$50,000 reque sted
the
below
tion
unica
Comm
al
Found ation at the last Annu
by the Foun datio n Trust ees;
the Breth ren of the
NOW THE REFO RE BE IT RESO LVED , That
the Califo rnia Maso nic
Grand Lodg e once again express their desire that
memb er of each Lodge
each
Found ation fulfill its intend ed purpo se, and that
tunity to take part in
oppor
um
minim
within the Grand Lodge be given the
of Grand Lodg e
action
prior
the
rming
reaffi
by
the grant ing of schol arship s
Lodge the sum of $50,000
by includ ing in the annua l budge t of the Grand
nic Clubs for the broad er
previo usly used for the maint enanc e of the Maso
funds in the contro l
arship
schol
of
and unive rsally more beneficial purpo se
ation.
of the Califo rnia Maso nic Found
Respe ctfull y subm itted,
FREDERICK BoLTE, P.M., No. 21
Purpo ses, on Finan ce,
Refer red to Comm ittees on Polic y and Gener al
ation.
Found
nic
Maso
rnia
and to the Direc tors of the Califo

The Committee on Finance:

does not under stand
The propo nent of Resol ution No. 29 appar ently
appro priati on apan
that
e
that Grand Lodg e policy does not conte mplat
a bindin g item
as
ered
consid
be
year
proved by Grand Lodge in any given
way influences
no
in
t
budge
year's
Each
.
years
in the budge ts of subse quent
or determ ines subse quent budge ts.
with the statem ent,
The Comm ittee on Finan ce, theref ore, takes issue
ly with the wishes
comp
not
did
e
Lodg
"The Finan ce Comm ittee of the Grand
tion."
unica
Comm
of the Grand Lodge at the last
Lodge to the FounThe quest ion as to financial assist ance of this Grand
the Comm ittee on
of
t
repor
dation is repor ted on in sufficient detail in the
Finan ce to be prese nted later.
pt to increa se your per
Your Comm ittee on Finan ce objec ts to any attem
capita by $50,000 and urges a "No" vote.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
ittee on Polic y and
Resol ution No. 29 has been referr ed to your Comm
Grand Lodge shoul d conGeneral Purpo ses. It propo ses that each year the

nic Found ation "for the
tribut e the sum of $50,000.00 to the Califo rnia Maso
Foun datio n," upon
...
the
of
purpo se of schol arship funds in the contro l
when the Founpolicy
ed
intend
the
was
the assert ed assum ption that this

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dation was created, and that this Annual Communication reaffirm such
supposed policy.
Also, there have been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes Grand Master Herbert A. Huebner's two recommendations concerning the California Masonic Foundation, namely:
"1. That the Foudation be requested to take appropriate steps to ratify
reimbursement to Grand Lodge for funds advanced during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1971.
"2. That Grand Lodge make no further advance of funds for the use
or benefit of the Foundation unless the Foundation agrees to make reimbursement."
By virtue of enabling legislation adopted by Grand Lodge at the 1968
Annual Communication, the California Masonic Foundation was incorporated on March 5, 1969, as a tax exempt, non-profit corporation.
Its Articles of Incorporation provide that: "The specific and primary
purposes for which this corporation is formed are to receive gifts, bequests,
devises and contributions of every kind and nature, and to hold, use, administer and disburse the same . . . for the furtherance of all phases of
educational, charitable and scientific purposes."
·
Quoting from a "General statement of Policies of California Masonic
Foundation;" "It is a general policy of this corporation to foster and promote
within the limits of its powers, Americanism, a respect for law and order, a
respect for the Flag of the United States, for the Constitution and laws by
which we are governed, and through the medium of education, to teach young
people of all classes, races and creeds that freedom under law, as provided
by our form of government, is a priceless heritage."
By action of the Grand Lodge, the original assets of the Foundation
consisted primarily of the two Clubhouses at Berkeley and U .C.LA. The
Berkeley Clubhouse was sold by the Foundation for $266,000.00 on September 20, 1968. The U.CL.A. Clubhouse has not yet been sold. For upkeep
of the U.CLA. Clubhouse, $14,679.31 was spent in the year ended June 30,
1970, and $16,165.26 for the year ended June 30, 1971. In his Mes.5age to
this Communication of the Grand Lodge, Grand Master Huebner estimated
that today ". • • the Foundation holds assets valued in the general neighborhood of $1,000,000.00," represented by real property at U.CLA., the
funds derived from the sale of the Berkeley Clubhouse, and miscellaneous
gifts.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes regrets exceedingly
the misimpression of the proponent of Resolution No. 29 in the assertion
that Grand Lodge once adopted as a policy the inclusion " .•• in the annual
budget of the Grand Lodge the sum of $50,000 previously used for the
maintenance of the Masonic Clubhouse for the . . . purpose of scholarship
funds in the control of the California Masonic Foundation."
As so carefully delineated by Grand Master Huebner on pages 34 and
35 of his Message, the proponent's error arises from a misunderstanding of

the events at the 1967 Annual Communication, when the Grand Lodge
received "The Report of Special Committee on Programs for Students"
containing a recommendation that ". • • annual appropriations formerly
devoted to the clubhouses be standardized at $50,000.00 and added to the
educational foundation each year as an appropriation from Grand Lodge."
As now pointed out by our Grand Master, at the 1967 Annual Communication "the Report was adopted, without reference to any specific provisions.
At that time •.• the Foundation had not been created, the Clubhouses had
not been sold, and no $50,000.00 appropriation was included in the budget
•.•" Nor was any such appropriation adopted at the 1968, 1969 or 1970
Annual Communications. And never has your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes at any Communication recommended that Grand Lodge
annually contribute $50,000.00 to the California Masonic Foundation.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes also regrets that, of
the several special and general purposes of the California Masonic Foundation, thus far the Foundation has been able to work on only one - namely,
ltholarships - and on it ineffectively.
In the "Report of Board of Directors California Masonic Foundation"
to the 1970 Annual Communication, its President said, when requesting an
allocation of $15,000.00 from Grand Lodge for the year ended June 30, 1971:
"Interpolating at this point, may I state that we hope, eventually, to become
self-supporting."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs with the
judgment of Grand Master Huebner, set forth on page 34 of his Message,
that " •.• the Foundation should live within its own financial ability ...,"
even if this means drawing upon its own capital. It is our firm belief that
the impetus derived by the Foundation from the transfer to it of the two
clubhouses more than qualified it to be self-sustaining. We sincerely trust
that an early sale of the U.CL.A. Clubhouse will be effected and that the
Foundation will intensify its efforts to effectuate all of the purposes for
which it was created.
To put Resolution No. 29 before you, I now move its adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No"
vote on Resolution No. 29.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes furthermore recommends adoption of Grand Master Huebner's two recommendations concerning the Foundation, i.e. that the Foundation be requested to ratify
reimbursement to Grand Lodge for funds advanced during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1971, and that Grand Lodge make no further advance of
funds to the Foundation unless the Foundation agrees to make reimbursement.

The Directors of the California Masonic Foundati<>n did not report.
A majority voted against the resolution.

353

354

355

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

pr~fer to delay this action for this year and accordingly recommend a continuation of the $.35 per capita during the year ending June 30, 1972.

To the Most WMshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The records of Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California, the
California Masonic Memorial Temple and the California Masonic Foundation for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1971 have been audited by the firm of
Touche Ross & Co. Certified Public Accountants. Their audit reports have
been reviewed by this Committee. You will find these full reports in the
published reports and proceedings.
For the fiscal year ended last June 30, Grand Lodge expenditures were
substantially under the budget amounts adopted at last year's Communication, particularly in the area of Appropriations. Although this category is the
smallest item of Grand Lodge expenditures, averaging about 14 to 15% of
the total, it is the area in which is reflected the budget estimates of some
thirty-five Committee chairmen.
As is the case with any business operation involving the use of a budget,
the ultimate cost of certain programs may exceed the budgeted amounts and
there are necessary expenditures for which budgets were not originally provided. The resulting supplemental appropriations totaling $21,300 were approved by the Grand Master, as required by our law, and we recommend your
approval of his action.
Major increases in the cost of operation of Grand Lodge, comparing the
past two fiscal years, took place in the items of Salaries, Data Processing,
Insurance, Ritual and Inspectoral, Annual Communication expenses and the
publication of our magazine the "California Freemason".
The per capita revenue, together with Investment income, provided an
excess of cash receipts over disbursements of $41,000.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

Much of the foregoing is set out in the Report of the Grand Treasurer.
His report has been reviewed by this Committee and found to be in accord
with the audit reports.
We extend our sincere appreciation to our Grand Treasurer for his continuing unselfish devotion and we recommend your approval of his report.
"CALIFORNIA FREEMASON" MAo:AzINE
The per capita tax of $.35 for editing, publishing, and distributing this
fine magazine has remained unchanged for the past four years. In our report
to you last year we expressed the hope that the expense involved would keep
pace with the continuing decline in yearly income. However, we encountered
a budget deficit of $7,782 this past year because, operating as we do on a cash
basis, part of this over-expenditure is applicable to the present fiscal period
as it represents paper inventory and supplies for issues in part of this period.
The cost of paper, supplies, postage and mailing services are constantly
increasing but our net membership continues to drop each year. This can
produce only one result, i.e. an inescapable increase in the per capita. We

COMMENTS RELATIVE To PROPOSED BuoGET

At ~s Communication you are asked to consider a budget for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1972. Prior to a general review meeting with the elective
officers, usually held in August, all Committee and Board Chairmen have consulted with and submitted their best estimates to members of your Committee on Finance. During this time, the Administrative and Office accounts
are reviewed with the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and
s~. During the August review these data are carefully and diligently exaIDined by the Deputy Grand Master, in particular, the Grand Master and
the Grand Wardens. You may rest assured that your Grand Officers are at all
times cognizant of the need to operate your Grand Lodge as economically as
is possible while promoting the many programs and activities of this widespread Masonic jurisdiction.
Administrative and Office. There are a few area salary adjustments yet to
be made, when permitted, and an additional $5,000 has been provided for
this purpose.
We anticipate that Postage and Express, Telephone and Telegraph Social
'
Security and payroll related taxes will add an additional $6,000.
designated
expenditure
one-time
the
is
category
this
in
The major increase
11
.Special T~ Review", in the amount of $5 ,200. This is the Grand Lodge portion of audit and legal fees in connection with a special review and examination in light of the substantial changes made to the Internal Revenue Code by
the Tax Reform Act of 1969 so as to identify potential areas of concern.
. G~ne~al &pense. The increase in this category is about $10,000, consistmgCo pnno~y of $3,300 for new Grand Lodge regalia, $2,500 for Workmens
mpensation nsurance, $1,500 to cover Cornerstone Ceremonies and $1 200
'
for increased Printing costs.
that
is
section
Expense
One of the major items of expense in the General
of the Ritual and lnspectoral group. The time and effort of these devoted
Masons is appreciated by the entire Fraternity and your Committee on
Finance extends a special word of thanks for their year-long efforts to conduct their activities economically and well within a reasonable budget.
Appr?priations. Our budget fi~re in this category is approximately
$20,000 10 excess of actual expenditures for last year and is comprised of
increases in certain Committee budgets where your Officers feel a need for
apanded activity this year.

1

MAsoNIC HOKES

The successful operation of our Homes by the Trustees and their staff
is to be highly commended. All of us appreciate the fine care and services
given to our members and guests. We are happy to concur in the Trustees'
request that the present $1.00 per capita be continued and so recommend.

356

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your Committee on Finance expresses its thanks to the Grand Master
and to the Board of Trustees for their action in assuming the cost of the
Endowment Board and the trip to Union Ciy, both of which will have a
favorable effect on the per capita tax.
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

We have again provided $15,000 in the budget as a result of a request
from the Foundation arising from educational grant commitments coupled
with the fact that the U.CL.A. Clubhouse continues to remain unsold. We
have received from the Foundation Board of Trustees formal agreement providing for the refund of this $15,000 prior to June 30, 1972. An amount of
$15,000, therefore, has been included in the Income section of the budget
thereby avoiding any impact upon the per capita assessment.
The Foundation did not submit an operating budget to the Committee
on Finance for review.
Although economic conditions are currently pressing in all areas of life,
today my brethren, you are the benefactors of your own previous and generous contributions to this Grand Lodge.
The establishment of the Homes Endowment Fund, which you approved
and have continued to support most generously, coupled with the willingness
which rapidly eliminated the mortgage on this splendid Memorial Temple has
allowed us to enjoy a low and constant per capita tax. Had this not been
done we would be talking about a higher per capita tax today.
It is the considered opinion of your Committee on Finance that the
Budget for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1972, as prepared for your con·
sideration, is adequately and fairly presented to guide the conscientious and
dedicated members of our great Masonic Fraternity in prudent disbursements
of their funds.
We urge that every possible savings be inade by all concerned not only
in this period, but in years to come.
'
Such inatters in the Grand Master's Message and in the several resolutions and reports which have been approved by this Grand Lodge and now
require funds have been provided for in the following proposed budget.

BUDGET - 1971-1972
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries •••••••••.•••.•.•••••••••.•.................... $115 000
Grand Lodge Office - Temple Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 24;000
Audit Fee and Related Expense . • • • • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,700
Grand Treasurer • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
250
Postage and Express • • . . • . . • . • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 000
Telephone and Telegraph .. • • • .. .. . • • • .. . . . . .. .. .. . . .. .. .
6;400
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • .
7,500
Investinent Counsel • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . . . . . .
1,300
Retirement Pension Plan - Grand Lodge Employees • . • • . . • • 8,500

Medical Plan - Grand Lodge Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Data Processing Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outside Services • • • • . . • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Personal Property Taxes • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supplies and Miscellaneous • . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maintenance and Repairs - Office Furnishings . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Lodge Office Refurbishing . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Special Tax Review • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security Guard Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

357
2,500
6,000
2,000
1,150
7,500
500
1,500
5,200
850

TOTAL •.......................................... $203 ,850
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication .................................. $ 25,000
Conferences • • . . . . • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 4,000
Cornerstone Ceremonies • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,500
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25,000
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler • . • . • .. • • .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,000
Grand Master's Travel, Secretarial and Sundry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19,000
Investment Counsel for Lodges . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7,500
4,600
Grand Lodge Regalia ................ ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reprc:sentatives' Mileage . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . 37,000
Pnnting . • • . . . . . . . . • • • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42,000
Retirement Pay . • . • • • • . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,000
Past Grand Masters Meetings • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,000
Ritualistic Expense:
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,500
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 7,500
Veteran Buttons • • . • • • • • • . . • • • • • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9,500
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation -Lodges ••................. 10,000
1,500
Grand Lodge ............. .
Public Liability and Extended Coverage ................ . 25,000
1,600
Miscellaneous •••.••....•.••.........................
9,900
Group Travel Accident ...............................•
TOTAL •••........................................ $281,100
APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee •.•................................• $ 10,000
Board of Control • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • 2,500
Jurisprudence Committee • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
1,500
Policy and General Purposes Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,500
Grievances Committee . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
800
Charters Committee • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . .
1,000
Columbia Temple.......................................
3,000

358

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Commercialism Committee ........................... ... .
Credentials Committee ........................... ...... .
Pay of Members Committee ........................... .. .
Constitution Observance Committee ....................... .
Correspondence Committee •.......................... ....
By-Laws Committee ....•..................... ..........
Necrology Committee ...•...................... .........
Retirement Pension Plan Committee ...................... .
Insurance Committee .............•............ ..........
Youth Activities ........................... ............ .
California Masonic Foundation .....•.....................
Study Commission - Physical Qualification ................ .
Endowment Board .............. : ....•......... .........
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ..................... .
Grand Master's Relief Fund •......................... ....
History Committee ....••...... .. . ......................
Investment Committee ........................... ...... .
Lodge Financing Committee ........................... . .
Masonic Cemeteries Committee ......... ................. .
Public Schools Committee ......•.......••.......... ......
Masonic Information and Responsibility Committee ......... .
Finance Committee ...••..••.......•..•...... ... ........
Public Information Committee ........................... .
Library Committee .......•.......... ...................
Code Commission .....•.................... .............
Old Masonic Hall - Los Angeles . ....................... .
Special Committee on C.M.C•......................... ...
In-Depth Study Committee •..•....................... ...
Audit Committee ••.•......•••.....•..•.... .............
Special Committee - Study of Boards of Relief ............ .
DeMolay Liaison Board ••.....••..•...••.•....... .......
IIistory Publication ••.•••••....••............ ...........
Law Observance Breakfast •.••••........ ................•
Contribution - 1976 Anniversary ..................... ... •

359

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

300
1,300
1,000

2,600
400
500
200
600
500
3,500
15,000
200
21,000
200
1,000
350
1,000
2,000
1,700
10,000
4,000
1,500
1,000
1,750
500
1,500
2,300
200
250
200
1,000
600
1,000

2,400

TOTAL ...•...•.....•............ ......... ....... •$101,850
RECAPITULATION

Administrative and Office ........................... ..... $203,850
General Expense ••••••••................... .•..•....••• 281,100
Appropriations . • • • • • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . • 86,850
GRAND TOTAL .......................•.. .•...••• • $586,800
INCOME

Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees ....................... $487,662
Estimated Income from Investments . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • • 72,CXXJ

Payment from Masonic Homes for Secretarial
and Other Services ........................... .. · · · · · ·
Payment from Masonic Homes·re Endowment Board ......... .
Payment from Masonic Homes re Union City Trip .......... .
Estimated Rental Income - Columbia Temple •.............
Old Masonic Hall, L.A. . ....... .
Reimbursement - California Masonic Foundation ........ · . ·
Estimated Receipts - Sale of Public School
Posters and Contributions .. .......................... .
Supplies and Miscellaneous ..................... · · · · · · ·

24,000
21,000
5,000
400
800
15,000
4,000
6,000

---

TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME ..................... $635,862

TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND BUDGETED ITEMS .$586,800
ESTIMATED EXCESS OF RECEIPTS
OVER DISBURSEMENTS ....................... $ 49,062
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Grand Lodge Office Equipment
and Improvements (Net of $4,000
To Be Reimbursed by Masonic Homes) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9,000

TOTAL ESTIMATED EXCESS OF RECEIPTS
OVER DISBURSEMENTS AFTER CAPITAL
ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS ............. $ 40,062
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

Income ........................... .................... $ 80,500
Estimated Expense ........................... ... · · · · · · · 89,000
Estimated Publishing Deficit .......................... $ 8,500

PER CAPITA
Masonic Homes .•........... .• ............... · ..... · · · · · · • • • · $ 1.00
Grand Lodge Constitutional .........................• • · · · · · • · ·
.SO
Grand Lodge Additional ........................... ..... · · ·... 1.50
California Freemason ........................... .... · · · · · · · · •
.35
TOTAL ........................... .............•..... $ 3.35

BUDGET-ONE QUARTER
JULY 1, 1972 THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 1972
AnMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries ........................... .................... $ .30,000
Grand Lodge Office - Temple Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6,000
Audit Fee and Related Expense . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,200

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Postage and Express • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Telephone and Telegraph . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Retirement Pension Plan - Grand Lodge Employees . . . . . . . . .
Medical Plan - Grand Lodge Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Data Processing Services . . . . . • . . • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outside Services • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supplies and Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2,800
1,600
1,800
2,200
SOO
1,SOO
SOO
1,800

TOTAL ••........................ .................. $ S0,900
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication ........................... ....... $ 1,000
Conferences ................... ....................... .
1,000
Cornerstone Ceremonies ...... ...... ....... ............. .
400
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel ........................... . .
6,000
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ......................... .
300
Grand Master's Travel, Secretarial and Sundry .... ......... .
6,000
Printing ••........................ ..................... 10,000
Retirement Pay ................... .................... .
1,000
Ritualistic Expense:
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery . .................... .
1,000
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ........ ............ . 12,000
Veteran Buttons ........................... .. .......... .
2,400
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation - Lodges ........ ........ .. . .
2,SOO
Grand Lodge .............. .
400
Agencies ................. .
300
Public Liability and Extended Coverage ....... ......... .
6,000
Miscellaneous .......................... ............ .
400
TOTAL .......................... ............... $ S0,700
APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee •......................... .......... $ 2,000
Board of Control • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SOO
Jurisprudence Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300
Policy and General Purposes Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
400
Grievances Committee • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
100
Charters Committee .•....•••...••••........... ; . . . . . . . . .
300
Columbia Temple • • • • . • • . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7SO
Commercialism Committee . • • • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SO
Constitution Observance Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SOO
Correspondence Committee • • • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • • • . . .
100

By-Laws Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

361

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

100

Retirement Pension Plan Committee •...•.....• , . . . . . . . . • . .
Youth Activities Committee . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Endowment Board • • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Investment Committee • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lodge Financing Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Masonic Cemeteries Committee . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Schools Committee . . • • • .. • • • . . . . . • • • • .. • . . . . . . . . . .
Masonic Information and Responsibility Committee . . . . . . . . . .
Finance Committee • . . • • • . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Information Committee •.•.............. , . . . . . . . . . .
Library Committee • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Commission • . • . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Masonic Hall - Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . .
Audit Committee .••.......•................ ·. . . . . . . . . . . .
DeMolay Liaison Board................. ................

100
700
S,000
200
300
400
1,700
1,000
400
200
SOO
100
400
100
300

TOTAL ..••....••.•.............. .................. $ 16,SOO
RECAPITULATION

Administrative and Office ........................... ..... $ S0,900
General Expense • • • • . . . . • • • • • • . . . • . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • S0,700
Appropriations . • . . • • • • . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 16,SOO
GRAND TOTAL .•.••.••..•...••........•• ..••..•... $118,100
It is interesting to note in the following tabulation the composition of the

per capita over the past ten years:

70

69

68

67

66

65

64

63

62

61

Masonic Homes ..•.. 1.00 1.00 1.lS 1.50 1.SO 1.SO 1.SO 1.00 1.00 1.00
Calif. Freemason ••••• .3S .3S .3S .3S .3S .2S .2S
Grand Lodge
Constitutional •.••• .so .so .so .so .so .so .so .so .so .so
Grand Lodge
Additional ....•••• 1.60 1.50( 1.00) 1.10 1.22 .8S .8S .8S .80 .80
Grand Lodge
Additional ....... .
( .3S)
Memorial Temple
1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
TOTALS
3.4S 3.3S 3.3S 3.4S 3.S7 4.10 4.10 3.3S 3.30 3.30
This Committee's work is not restricted to the week of the Annual Communication, it also must gather and review other committees' budget requests
during the year in preparation for Grand Lodge Week. This effort would be
nearly impossible and most costly without the able cooperation and expert
assistance of the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary, and their
capable staff. For this assistance, we extend our sincere thanks.

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We accordingly offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That for the purpose of paying the expenses of Grand
Lodge, a per capita of $3.35 be levied for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1972,
divided as follows:
Masonic Homes .................. .................. . · · .$1.00
Grand Lodge Constitutional . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. • .. .. . . . .50
Grand Lodge Additional .................. ............... 1.50
California Freemason . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35

IN GRAND LODGE

TOTAL PER CAPITA .................. .•.........•. $3.35

o.

Respectfully submitted,
JoHN A. S1cKENBERGER, Chairman

ORAN
BRIDGES
ALBERT F. ENDERLIN
RALPH
P:FllUWAN

c.

c.

JOHN
WIESNER
SAM L. QUINT
JOSEPH H. HORN

Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was separately
adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.
Grand Lodge was called off at 6:15 P.M. to be called on at 9:30 A.M.
Friday.

363

Friday, October 15, 1971
At 9:30 A.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
This session was raised by Worshipful Jack W. Joe, Jr. Master of San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday, October 14,
were read and approved.

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the Annual
Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the sections of the Constitution applying thereto.
The R. W. Lester S. McElwain, Verba Buena Lodge No. 403, was elected
Grand Master.
The R. W. William H. Price, Evergreen Lodge No. 259, was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Raymond A. Ebbage, Capital City Lodge No. 499, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Burton Meyer, Jr., Golden State Lodge No. 358, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Chester R. MacPhee, Past Grand Master, Golden West
Lodge No. 455, was reelected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth Lodge No.
560, was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. H. Douglas Lemons, Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699, was reelected Grand Lecturer.
At the request of the Grand Master-elect, Most Worshipful Myron E.
Smith announced the names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Robert M. Young, Paul Revere Lodge No. 462.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Burton 0. Young, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336;
Edward E. Seagle, Polaris Lodge No. 730, Ulysses G. Patropulos, King
Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260; Wallace H. Fiske, East Belt Lodge No.
391; George W. Perkins, Mizpah Lodge No. 378; Ernest M. Newton, Silver
Gate Lodge No. 296.
Grand Orator, Ralph W. Winters, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Arthur Linsk., Loyalty Lodge No. 529.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Verne W. Hendrix, Mount Diablo Lodge
No. 448.
Grand Marshal, Arthur R. Kirk, Verba Buena Lodge No. 403.
Grand Standard Bearer, William Wong, The Gabilan Lodge No. 803.
Grand Sword Bearer, F. Jose deLarios, Francis Drake Lodge No. 376.
Grand Bible Bearer, James B. "Pat" Smith, Chico Lodge No. 111.

364

365

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Senior Grand Deacon, Robert A. Smallman, Fairfax Lodge No. 556.
Junior Grand Deacon, Robert McDonald, Alpha Lodge No. 431.
Senior Grand Steward, Ronald L. Broaddus, San Clemente Lodge No. 671.
Junior Grand Steward, Joseph P. Dennehy, Koolau Lodge No. 801.
Grand Pursuivant, Raymond J. Urrizola, Joppa Lodge No. 508.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, Thomas J. McKimson, Melrose Lodge No. 602.
Announcement was made of the following appointments by the Grand
Master-elect.

Master for his wife, Loma. Most Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner expressed
bis appreciation on her behalf for this thoughtful gift.
Following the proclamation of the installation, our newly. insta~led Grand
Master, Most Worshipful Lester S. McElwain thanked the 1ns~ng officer,
recognized the Brethren of his Lodge in a~tendance, pl~~ed his devoted
service to the Fraternity and expressed his smcere appreaation for the trust
and confidence which had been placed in him.
At 1:45 P.M., all business being completed, Grand Lodge closed in due
fonn.

As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, the appointments of
L. Harold Anderson, John M. Faulkner, and Ralph M. Brown to succeed
Past Grand Master Robert A. Crigler, William A. Revitt, and Donald G.
Campbell, terms expired.
As Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the reappointment of Samuel I. Jacobs and James Craven.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
Most Worshipful Myron E. Smith, Past Grand Master, acted as Master
of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed, were installed by the
retiring Grand Master in accordance with the Ritual.
The Grand Master's lapel pin was transferred from the retiring to the
incumbent Grand Master and the other chair officers exchanged the Arthur
S. Crites lapel pins.
Very Reverend Roland R. Bach presented the pin of the Grand Chaplain
to the new Grand Chaplain Very Reverend Robert M. Young.
Worshipful Burton Meyer presented the Grand Orator's pin to Ralph
Winters, the new Grand Orator.
The newly retired Grand Master invited Past Grand Master Laurence E.
Dayton to the East and presented to him a plaque from the Masonic Homes
Board and Grand Lodge as a token of appreciation for his wisdom, talent
and counsel in serving. He responded with remarks expressing his appreciation
for the plaque and for the opportunity to serve.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Master's Pin by
Past Grand Master, Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary, and with a Past
Grand Master's certificate by Worshipful DeWald M. Baum, Trustee of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple. He was then presented with a Past
Master's apron by his son, Worshipful Harlan P. Huebner, Past Master of
Wilshire Lodge No. 445.

On behalf of the members of Grand Lodge, Most Worshipful Chester R.
MacPhee, Past Grand Master, presented a gift to the Junior Past Grand

~'>ct:!.~~ .. : .....
Grand Master

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

367

SPECIAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Grand Lodge Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368
Statement of Annual Returns, 1970 .............................. 373
Masonic Homes Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Memorial Temple Audit ........................................ 429
California Masonic Foundation Audit • . .......................... 435
Statistical:
Residents of Union City .......... ·........... : . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 440
Children at Covina Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
Contributions to Special Reserves

452

368

369

PROCEEDINGS OP' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDITS

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODG-E
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF" THE STATE OF CALIFOMIA.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND BAIANCE
June 30
~

August 24,, 1971

c:ash (includes time deposits of $431,010 in

1970)

Accounts receivable - security transactions
in transit
Investments at cost:
Bonds - (quoted market $445,000 in 1971
and $315,000 in 1970}
Convertible preferred stocks - (quoted
market $55 1 300 ~ 1971 and $26,500 in

The Most worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of Californj.a_,
San Francisco,, California.

1970}

co111111on stocks - (quoted market $791,000
in 1971 and $2$4,000 in 1970)

We have examined the accompanying statement of assets,
liabilities, and fund balance of The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California (a nonprofit unincorporated fraternal organization) as of June 30 1 1971,,
and the related statement of cash revenues and expenses for the
year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included
such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly the assets, liabilities, and fund balance of
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Mason~ of the
State of California as of June 30, 1971, and the cash revenues and
expenses for the year then ended,, on a basis consistent w:1.th that
of the preceding year.

Certified Public Accountants

Funtl.ture, equipmen'!i and improvements at cost (Note B)
Other assets

56,672
46,861

•

521,,301
-o-

480,945

476,773

57,206
608 26o6
1,146,757

37,317
270 1 o48
784,138

79,136

74,644
28,948

~.579

$1,388,005
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
Due George Washington Memorial Fund

FUND BAIANCE
Balance at beginning of year
Add excess of revenues
Balance at end of year

1,341,589
32,802
1,374,391
$1,388,005

See notes to financial statements.

1,341,589
$1,4o9,031

370

GR.AND LODGE Ol!' CALIPOllNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
'l'HE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF 'l'HE STATE OP CALIFORnIA

THE MOST WORBHIPlPUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES AND EXPENSES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended ,,.,

97

$ 944,480

$ 956,947

·NOTE A - Basis of Accounting

(350,383}
(37,142
(80,534)
(4 2 112)
472,309
80
23,602
l~,046
l 1 879
57,527

(389,4Ml
(37,4
(81,,644)

The financi«l. statements are presented on a modified cash
basis of accounting. Generally, revenues are recorded at the time
of receipt and expenses are accrued at year end.

(4114:2)
444,,331
125
15,561
27,134
21 1710
64,405

BOTE B - Furniture, Equipment,, and I.mprovements

24,ooo

24,ooo
34,030

Fees tor charters and dispensations
Revenue from investments:
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bonds
Interest on bank accounts
Reimbursement from Masonic Homes of
California for secretarial and other
services
Sale of supplies held for resale
Less purchases and other direct costs

30,1~

(32 1 ~1)

(34 2 7 9)
(4,631)

Publication C&lifornia Freemason:
Per capita from Lodges (see above)
Subscription revenue

1,709
81,644
1,027
82,671
(811711)

80,~

lz

82,077
(82a822)
(7,782)

Less publishing expenses
Refund of travel expenses from Past Grand
Master
Other

96<>

l,,~~

TOTAL REVENUE

EXPENSES:
Administrative and office expenses
General. expenses
Jlppropriations

EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES BE-

FORE LOSS ON SALE OF SECURITIES

Loss on sale of securities - net

EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES

Year ended Jupe 30,, 1971

121!

REVENUES:

contributions from Lodges
Less contributions for:
Masonic Homes of California
california Masonic Memorial Temple
Publication California Freemason
(see below)
_Ge9rge Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association

r

371

~

See notes to financial statements.

-o-

543;543
182,455 ·
2~, 13
1172
502 2 ~40

184
535,714
162,632
252,158
70 1257
485 1 o47

41,203
(8 2401)

50,,667
(10 1384)

~2.802

~

40128~

At the 1957 Annual Communication the Grand Lodge approved
the policy of capitalizing amounts expended for turnishings and
equipment after June 30,, 1957• No depreciation is provided on these
assets.
BOTE C - Pension Plan
The Grand Lodge has established a pension plan covering
all full-time employees. Total pension expense for the year ended
June 30, 1971 was $9,300. Total pension expense for the year ended
June 30, 1970 was $11,700 including approximately $1,700 for the
Temple employees. All prior and current service costs have been
tunded.

372

373

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO'RNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION'

nted in the follow ing pages ,
The additi onal inform ation presenting
and other record s of
accou
from
rily
prima
which has been taken
and other audit ing
tests
the
to
ted
subjec
been
has
,
Lodge
the Grand
cial statem ents of
finan
the
of
nation
exami
our
in
d
applie
proce dures
ted Masons of the
Accep
and
Free
of
Lodge
Grand
ipful
Worsh
Most
The
June 30, 1971. In our opinio n,
State of Califo rnia for the year ended
in reted in all mater ial respe cts it
such inform ation. is fairly presen
is
as a whole~ althou gh
lation to the finan cial statem ents taken
cial posit ion or rea fair prese ntatio n of finan
for
sary
neces
not
·
sults ot opera tions.

-r~ ~J)"

•

c::::...

Certi fied Publi c Accou ntants

l 411 41~

im

~~~~I

~~~~I

i ~~~;
~ Ii~'~
i

II

•

I

I

88
• •
'"'II?

8 8
OI•

rt"

374

375

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
THE MOST WORSHIPFUL CIRAlfD LODGE
OF FREE AHD ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OP FREE AND ACCEPTED MA.SONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF AIXINISTRATIVE AHD OFFICE EXPENSES

STATEMENT OF GENERAL ElCPENSES

Actu&l

Budget
Salaries
Grand Lodge Office - Temple
operations
Audit
Grand Treasurer
Postage and express
Telephone and telegraph
Payroll taxes
Investment counsel
Retirement plan
Medical plan
Data processing services
outside services
Personal property taxes
Supp1ies and miscellaneou s
Maintenance and repai~s
Grand Lodge of fi.ce
ret'urbishing

_;.2Z!_

.!2I!

$110.000

$109.186

24,ooo
3,500
250
11.000
6.,800
8.ooo
500
13.000
2.000
5.000
4.000
l.300
7.500
1,000

24.ooo
2.657

Zz5oo

1 1 515

i20~ 1 3~0

!182,z~~

-o1.801
5,429

6.422
500
9.323
1.539
4,250
l.16o
1,201
6.,907
859

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.!m

increase
(Decrease)

94.037

$15.149

24.ooo
4.950
-o7.963
4.,893
5.427
500
1.821
l,473

(2,293)
-o(156)
536
995
-ol.502

*

-o-

-o-

66

3.980
963
6,625
-o-

4,250
(2,820)
238
282
859

-o-

1 1 515

!162,6~2

$20,123

Annual communication
Conferences
Grand Lodge Officers' travel
Grand Organist and Grand
Tiler
Grand Master's travel,
secretarial and special
Investment counsel for
Lodges
Grand Lodge rega11a
=esentativ es' m11eage
ting
Retirement pay
Inspectors' aprons and
stationery
Bitua1 canmittee and
inspectors• conference and
travel
Cornerstone ceremonies
Veteran buttons
Insurance:
Workmen 1 s com.pens a ti on:
Lodges
Grand Lodge
Agencies
Pub11c 11ab11ity and
extended coverage for
Lodges
Group travel accident
insurance
Misce1laneous insurance
Past Grand Masters meetings
Blood bank administratio n

Actu&l.

.l:21!...

.!21:!

.!2I2

:rncrease
(Decrease)

$ 22.500
5.000
19,000

• 24,~92
3, ~4
19,2 8

• 21,625
4.~
19,

• 2,767
(721)
220

l.ooo

1,000

1,000

-o- .

19,000

19,000

19.000

-o-

1.000

1,000
~,182

Budget

500
38.000
34,000
.ooo

92
~6,~0
o, 1
3.949

3 ,2lfil
39,7
3.949

-o(3.grs)
1.037
-o-

3,800

4.507

3.538

969

45,000
2,500
13.000

47,o46
-ol0.583

1,2
. 8.922

(l,~4)

12,000
2.000
l.500

8,33f!
l.206
867

l0.534
l.707
l,117

(2.196~

30,000

24.897

28.907

(4.010)

10.200
3.000
500
:2a000

9.~4
l,8~
-o-

-o1,465
-o-o-

9.r~>

~ 2 Z2·~

~26~141~

~2~211~

~1~.2~~

1,000

39,~

7,480
l,

1

~501

250

40
-o-

376

377

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
THE MOST WORSmPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF 1'HE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE Am> ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STA'm OP CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS

STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS (Continued,}
Actual

Budget

....!2Z!..
Activities Committee
Board of Control
Jurisprudence Committee
Policy and General Purposes
Committee
Grievances Committee
Charters Committee
Columbia Temple:
Rental income
Rental expense
~ommercialism Committee
Credentials Committee
Pay ot Members Committee
Constitution Observance Committee
Correspondence Committee
By-Laws Committee
Necrology Committee
Retirement Committee
Insurance Committee
Youth Orders
Endowment Board
:Recognition of Foreign Grand
Lodges
Grand Master's Relief Fund
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Agencies
Medical Plan - Grand Lodge Agencies
·
History Committee
Investment Committee
Lodge Financing Committee
Masonic Cemeteries Committee
Special COllllllittee - Calitornia
Foundation
Special Committee - Study of
Grand Lodge Funds
Past Grand Master - Reimbursement
of excess over budget
Grand Lodge - Special Travel
Special Committee - Sojourners
Relief Study
Special Study Committee Fifty Year Button
Grand Master's Orientation Program

1971

1970

fricrease
(Decrease)

$ 8,500 $ 9,649 $ 6,545 $ 3,lo4
3,500
1,310
(l,641)
2,~~
l,500
1,056
184

l,~gg
l,500

l,~90

4~~g>

3~~~)

300
l,100
l,000

2,r~
800
200
500
500
2,500
19,000

~~

l,225
167
l.160
(6~o)

16~
23
(574)
2~3

l,7 6
116

1,6 l

i6o

l,~~
l,~~

~~}
43

Bl

-o-o-

-o-

-o886

l, ~
3 3

-o384
4a

l,~85

~

<~r>

3fl

15, 73

~,632

l ,856

(2,2{7J
1,017

200
2,500

-o-o-

-ol,500

-o(1,500)

5,500
l,000
1,200
l,000
2,000
l,500

i,222
329
151
832
1

3,875
407

(2,6~}

'ris

~~

l,391
l,021

c164
68
112
(603)

-o-

-o-

4,473

(4,473)

-o-

-o-

207

(207)

-o-o-

-o-o-

2,669
399

(2,669l
(399

-o-

-o-

344

(344)

-o-o-

-o-o-

l 2

1~9

H~~~

Budget
_!2ZL

Actual
1971

1970

!ncrease
(Decrease)

(485~
• (4,300) $(4,641) $(4,156) •
Sale ot public school posters
(1,558
7,532
5,974
9,000
Public Schools Committee
Masonic Information and
2,457
9,100
Responsibility Committee
3,~3
l, 0
1,500
968
1':1nance Committee
30
Public Information Committee
l,~o
i.ri~
2, 00
1,570
Library Commission
University Clubhouse -o15,000
-o-oLos Angeles
52
(44)
8
500
Code Commission
Old Masonic Ha.11 - Los Angeles:
(790)
(700)
Rental income
(9~)
<~g>
l,228
l,5
1,500
Rental expense
Special Hawaiian Advisory
48
100
299
Committee
(251~
3,130
(l,781
2,300
1,349
Special Committee on C.M.C.
of
Special Committee - Study
400
971
Administrative Operations
3~~
l,000
384
Audit Committee
Study Commission - Physical
263
263
-oQualifications
500
Sub-Committee tor the Co11111un1cation
42
l
100
43
ot the Fundamentals ot Freemasonry
Special Committee - Study of
112
2,000
112
-oBoards ot Relief
-o-oLaw Observance Breakfast
~89
03
5,000
~~
-oCommittee and Board Consultants
22
22
-o500
Committee
Study
Corporate
2
l,000
2
-oGrand Lodge Symphony Committee
-o234
234
History Publication
-o-o622
DeMolay Liaison Board
622
-o(15,705)
113,200 54.,172 69,877
capital addition • Columbia
(380)
360
-o'Xemple
-o-

~'Ml

rn~1

!11~1200

i~4 1 1z2

izo 1 2~

!(16 1oaa>

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THB STATE OF

379

GRAND LODGE OP' CALIFORNIA
THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASON OF THE STATE OF

CALIPOBNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

~

COMMON S ro<:K

CALIFORNIA

Face
~

25,000

Intern ationa l Bank for Rec.
& Dev. 4)s%, 2-1-90

$

10,000

Norfol k & Weste rn Ry. Eq. Tr. 3 7/8%
1-1-72

60,000

Southe rn Califo rnia Edison 1st.
& Ref. 4.375% , 5-15-8 8

Coat

J'umber of
Shares

16,531

500

Americ an Electr ic Power

500

Americ an Smelti ng & Ref.

15,359

134

Bank of Americ a

5,834

1,400

Bethle hem Steel Corp.

33,634

2,500

Cabot, Cabot & Forbes

50,000

l,000

Chase Manha ttan Mtge. & Rlty

92,285

9,872
51,163

Co•t
$

19,693

4,600

Virgin ia Ry. Co. 6%, 8-1-08

5,129

50,000

Cabot, Cabot & Forbes Cnv. 6 3/4%
3-15-9 1

50,000

300

Chase Manha ttan Bank

10,959

195,00 0

660

Colum bia Gas System

13,562

50,000

Chase Manha ttan Mtge. & Rlty. 6)s%, 5-1-96
Dilling ham Corp. Cnv. 5)s%, 4-1-94

50,000

1,083

Contin ental Oil Co.

40,160

100,00 0

Stauff er Chemi cal Co. 4)s%, 4-1-91

103,25 0

200

El Paso Natura l Gas Co.

5,440

480,94 5

2,800

Gener al Electr ic Corp.

115,00 5

1,000

Gener al Motors Corp.

73,040

500

Mobile Oil

Co.

21,468

200

Ohio Edison Co.

4,417

100

Panhan dle Easter n Pipeli ne

3,210

200

J. c. Penney Co.

4,743

200

Signa l Oil Co.

6,472

100

Standa rd Oil Co. Of New Jersey

7,061

195,00 0

TOTAL BONDS

$

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
Nwnber of
Shares

Coat:

100

Kaiser Aluminum & Chemi cal $4.125

400

Marco r Inc •. $2. 00

400

Union Oil Co. of Califo rnia Cnv. $2.50
TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

$

10,352

19,889
26,965
$

51,206

380

381

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES AUDI T

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS (Continu ed)
June 30, 1971
COMMON STOCK

August 26, 1971

Number of
Shares
l,500

Cost

Warner Lambert Co.

$

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

86,264

$ 608·,606

Board of Trustee s,
Masonic Homes of Califor nia,
San Francis co, Califor nia.
We have examined the accompanying stateme nts of assets,
Homes of
liabili ties reserve s,' and fund balance s of Ma.sonic
1971, and the
Califor nia ta nonpro fit corpora tion) as of June s 30,
balance s
related stateme nts of cash revenue s and expense andinfund
nce
accorda
made
was
ation
examin
our
ended.
for the year then
and accordi ngly inwith general ly accepte d auditin g standar ds, and
such other auditcluded such tests of the account ing records
ing procedu res as we conside red necessa ry in the circums tances.
d to
In our opinion , the financi al stateme nts referre
s, and fund
above present fairly the assets, liabili ties, reserve
June 30, 1971, and
balance s of Ma.sonic Homes of Califor nia as ofthen
ended, on a basis
the cash revenue s and expense s for the year
consist ent with that of the precedi ng year.

Certifi ed Public Accoun tants

382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORlfIA

LIABILITIES, RESERVES, AID Fll1'ID BALANCE

S'l'A1'EMQ.r OF ASSETS, LIABILITI ES RB8ERVEB
'
'
MID FllllD .BALAlfCE

GENERAL FUlID:
Cash
Accounts receivab le

Ac~~~;!n!i~eivable - security transacti ons

Notes receivab le (Note B)
Due from other funds
Investme nts (Note c)•
Bonds (quoted mark~t $2 969 000 in 1971 ·
and $3,091,00 0 in 1976) '
Convertio le Preferred Stock (quoted
F57ket $1,445,oo o 1n 1971 and
"' 3,ooo in 1970)
Common stock (q.uoted market $6 411-0 000
1n 1971 and f3,664,oo o 1n l9°7o) '
Prepaid insurance
Other assets (Note D)

383

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

June 30
GENERAL FUND AND RESERVES:
Accounts payable
Accounts payable - security transactio ns 1n
transit
ReserVis for special purposes (Note G)
.
General Fund balance
TOTAL GENERAL FUND AND RESERVES

•1·~~;m
226,o68
374,555
248,,uo

372, 281
J.46,o66

3,,189,147-

3,,716,580

-0-

PROPERTY FU?ID

809,o66

5.366,4zz
9,826,956
26,055
6,354.
ll,807,98 3

4,631,502
9,157,151

-0-

•

lo6,,4o4
100,168

9,161,~1

9,890,581
1 181:21564
11,807,98 3

1,620, 4
l0,989,24 7

7,721,,388

7,571,,999

- security transacti ons 1n
transit
Accounts payable - security transacti ons
in transit
Due General Fund
Fund balance
TOTAL ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS

31,149

l~:~

-o248,110
26.23:z:,192
26,,516,,451

22.1:z::ial!:!2
25,,412,,962

$46,o45,822

$43,974,228

14,?Z~

J.0,989,24 7

PROPERTY FUND - l~d, buildings
equipment - at cost (Rote E) ' and
26,516,45 1

25,412,98 2

*46.o4s,822

$43.974,228

See notes to financia l statemen ts.

101,,838

DDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS:
Bank advances

1,271,332

•

384

385

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPO'R.NIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMEN'l' OF GENERAL FUND BALANCE

STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND CASH :REVENUF.8 .ABD EXPEHSES
Year Ended J~

Year ended JUn~

rn

Balance at beginning ot year
Add (deduct):
Transfers from (to) reserves for special
purposes and trust funds:
Co'Vina reserve
Decoto reserve
Reserve for additions and replacements
Covina entertainment reserve
Decoto entertainment reserve
Student Aid Fund
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund
Alida o. Meserve Trust Fund
Loss on sales of securities - net
Excess of revenues over expenses
NET INCREASE (DECREASE)

$1,620,984

$2,149,129

14,457
10,871

12,382
75,166

s,219
8,312
3,616

(33,317)
123,482
194.580

700,000)
8,071
3,823
9,789
l0,899
1,300
(9,949)
60,374
(528,145)

Balance at end of year

$1,815.564

$1,620,984

~:~~
-o-

REVENUES:

Received from:
The Most worsbiptul Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of
California annual returns:
Membership at $1.00 for 1971, .l.15
for 1970, per capita
Contributions of initiates and
a1'filiates at $25 each
Adjustments for previous years
Permanent Endowment Fund
Revenue from investments:
Interest on:
Bank deposits
Notes receivable
Bonds
Dividends on stocks

*

Other
TOTAL REVENUE
EXPENSES:
Qperation ot Masonic Homes:
Deco to
Covina
Outside relief
Administrative and general

201,58~

24612
513,224

37,428
18,272
160,716
1781602
395,018

526,159

434,362

17,~7

16,ru
271 22
44,452
281120
2,313,225

1,863,055
472,900
7,620

l,~5,709
o,~19

;301 2
47,726
261799
2,632,26o

5. 75

1~0 1 248

162120~

TOTAL EXPENSES
EXCESS OF Rl'VENUES OVER EXPENSES

268,258

120,950
212
389,423
1,021,850

42,684
22,449

Amounts received on pensions assigned
by Decoto residents
Payments through Lodges for:
Decoto residents
Covina residents
See notes to financial statements.

$ 230,096
119,975
312
350,383
1,167,969

2 12oa 117B

212521821

~ 123.482

$

See notes to financial statements.

601~4

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIPOIUfIA

10UCHI IOll A CO.

PROPERTY FU1'D

llAS01'IC BONES -Or CALIPO!UfIA

STATEMENT OF ASSETS .Alt]) FUND BALANCE

PSIQIAllEllT :BllDOlDIEll'l' l!'IJIU)

JUne 30

ht!

~

Land, buildin gs, and equipm ent (Note E):
Decoto
Covina
San Francis co office

S'l'A'rlMJlll'l' or ASSETS, LUBil.ITI ES. AllD J'OIU) llALAKCE

1212

$5.645.091
•5·m
2. •·~
07 l,903,1 94

241812
231I14
$7.121.388 t{.571. 999

TOTAL ASSETS

FUND BALANCE

Balance at beginni ng ot year
Add (deduc t):
Decoto, from Decoto reserve
Cov:t.na, . trom:
Florenc e Katheri ne Burt Trust Fund
Covina reserve
Alida o. Meserve Trust Fund
Reserve tor additio ns and replace ments
Cost ot de~lishing residen ce halls and
other equipm ent at Covina

$7.571,999 $6,832, 680
21,438
3,518
86,~l

-<>-

39E1,686
~,004
3,840

NET INCREASE
Ba1ance at end ot year

2~· 46

,495
615,279

'~:~~)

1321312

~:r 1 z21 1 ~8

~I15Z1a222

-o-

MASON:((( HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENT OF ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS BALANCES

TOTAL ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS

1m

. 0!212

$24,999,493 .23,9Ql,281
79,633
80,578
43,268
42,639
15,780
19,068
5,627
6,449
459,869
44o,041
433,068
448,032
287 ,184
303,800
179,o86
l59,o86
13,443
12 1 oo8
$26,5161451 $25,412,962

See notes to financi al stateme nts.

1ft!
B&Yingll accounts
wotea nceiVabl .e (Note B)
Aecount• rece1v&b le - HCur1t7 tr1111saction• 1n tr11118 it
Investme nts (Note C):
• ., . ...,4 000
Bonda ~quoted aarket •10,'(Uj,0 00 1n l.971. 111ld ...,,:?--'
•
c~e~I~ie preferred s\pck (luoted market *1,859,00 0 in
1971 1111d $1 181,000 in 1970
eo.-,n stock fquot.ed m&rket
1,817,000 in l.971. ll1ld
$8,ll.7,00 0 :!.ii 1970)

*

other aueta (llOta I>)
TOTAL ASSETS

•

J'llll8 30

• i,135,21fo
33;r10
-o-

n,462,58 4

l.0,748,4<>8

l.,857,644

l.,691.,471.

io,s~ 1 o8::z

io,2~ 1 441

j24.m,4 93

!#?)·9011281

21i,19,31~

23,096,77 0

936,6jl

91N~2

933,359

912,495

(78,685)
50,803
517,423
(305,143)
9,617

(70,768)
78,685
3ri,250
(5 1,220)
i·6ll
2 ,204

i,123,24,929,49 3
i241:!:l21~

23,8 .027
i2~12!ll 126l.

•

•

~r.;~=son notes receivab le

Bet apenae troa re&l. eotate

!ISVEllUE T!IAllSFERRED TO GEllERAL rqJU> IIJCOME

• 2I

~.279

=-~~· a&l.e ot securitie s - net

Intereat an bank depoa it•
Intere1t on bond•

55.~

*23,846,027

ProgreH p~t• on pl.ad&.. , un&l.l.ocated:
At beg1nnin& ot 7eez (deduct)
·
At end or 7ear

TO'?AL LIABILITIES AllD FU!ID BALAllCB
BTATEMBll'l' OF CASR REVENUES

22,732,3fi

•

1'll!ID BALA!ICE

Bal.ance at beglming ot ;rear
Ad4 {deduct):
Contribu tions thrOU~ Lodge•
IAH collectio n ezpenae llET colfrRil!IJTIONS THRroGB LODGES

lfl.!!

415,819
42,393
391,959

LIABILITIES
Accounts p~abl.e - 1acurit7 transacti ons in transit

0ontribut 1ons
JlaOri&l. •

June 30

Perman ent Endowment Fund
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
George F. and Laura E. Brigham Scholar ship
Fund
George M. and Florenc e-a. Petine Endowment
Fund
Harrie t c. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
Studen t Aid Fund
Florenc e Katheri ne Burt Trust Fund
Edmund Clement Atkinso n Fund
Alida o. Meserve Trust Fund
M1nnie E. Peterso n Fund

387

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

26,m

26,392
639,l.118
5oc>,lB2
2

7~ 1 2:ll

l.9,1190

578 •• ~
1122 5811

·rn) i ·rJ,
SO
1

j 1 1 167.g69
110211 8
BO'l'Z:
Th
nt end.olllUmt tun4 i• reotricte d b;r Ordin&nCe• ot Gr11114 Lodge
so that
no portion ~ ~!";""riJICip&l. aJ>all. be upended tor
Ul1' purpoae, and th• s.ncoae tberetroa
0
ab&ll. be uaed onl.;r tor ti!• M111ten1111ce end gener&l. operation
ot the ll&aonic Homea.
see note• to t1DMC1&l. atatemon t• •

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

389

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO'RNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND

GEORGE F. AND LA.URA E. BRIGHAM SCHOLARSHIP P'UBD

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

.BTA.TEMElfl' OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

June 30

June 30

Savings account
Investment s (Note C):
Bonds (quoted market $18 1 100 in 1971 and
$45,400 in 1970)
Common stock (quoted market $56,ooo in 1971
and $12 1 900 in 1970)
TOTAL ASSETS

191!

1212

$16,539

$13,363

20,215
42 18z2
631094
$79,633

54,162
1~1023

67.212
$80.5'{8

Savings account

In~~~!e(!!oi!~t:a;~!t $7,300 in 1971 and $25,600
in 1970)
Co11D11on stock (quoted market . $39,400 in 1971
and $9 1 700 in 1970)

TOTAL ASSETS

FUND BALANCE

Balance at beginning ot year
Add (deduct) :
Loss on sale ot securities - net
Interest
Dividends
NET INCREASE (DECREASE)
Ba.lance at end ot year
NOTE:

$ 5,649

$ 3,615

8,054

27,709

221562
37:1612
$43,268

11.312
32.024
$42,639

FUND BALANCE

$80,578 $77,781
(4,755)
(8~)
2,~3
2,m
la

Z

(242)

2a72I

~Z21633

~01~~

The principal, restricted by the terms ot the Will, is to be
kept intact and the income used only for the benefit of the
orphans or the aged in Masonic Homes ot Southern Calitornia . care of

Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Interest {Note H)
Dividends
Loss on sale or securities
Revenue transferre d to Student Aid Fund

$42,639 $43,049
J.,461
473
752
2,020
(1,864)
(410~
(2.213
-o{410)
622

Balance at end of year

j431268

NET INCREASE

~216~2

NOTE·•

The principal is held as a scholarshi p tund tor the beneri t
or the Covina Home residents, $25 1 000 or which may be loaned for this
purpose. Income of this fund is restricted and may be used only for
providing scholarshi ps.

See notes to financial statements .
Sea notes to financial statements .

-

390

391

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. PERINE ENDOWMENT FUND

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT ANNUITY FUND

STATEMENT OP ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30

June 30

Savings account
Investments (Mote C}:
Common stock (quoted market $U,800 in 1971
and $7,000 in 1970)
TOTAL ASSETS

lm

m.q

$ 4,418

•11.112

111362
$15.780·

$19,o68

LIABILITIES
Accounts payable - eecuri ty transactions in
transit

:Za:i!2§

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES
Interest
Dividends

• 3.288
$15,780

19,320

(31~)

-o-

1217§0
$15,zao

1217§0
$19,o68

NOTE:

• •
~

I21

!

338
213
8~1

The principal, subject to the provision included 1n the Will
ot the testator. shall be kept intact and only the income therefrom.
shall be used tor the benefit ot the Decoto Home.

See notes to financial statements.

$6,449

Balance at beginning ot year
Alld (deduct):
Interest
· Dividends
Loss on sale of securities
Annuities p&id as required

:;,
(245J

NET DECREASE

Balance at end of year
IOTE:

4oo
3~

REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO RESERVE

$ 566

FUND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE

Balance at beginning of year
Deduct loss on sale ot securities
Balance at end of year

S&vings account
Investments (Mote C}:
Common stock (quoted mar~et $6,0oo in 1971
and $5,000 in 1970)
TOTAL ASSETS

$7.365

~

c1!rs0J

JhQ2Q
___(§gg)

~)

~

~

Thie fund, in the original amount of $30,000, is subject to a
contract 'lfith the donor providing tor the payment ot certain lite
annuities out ot the principal and income thereot. Under the terms
ot the contract. only principal ot the fund expended in payment of
th.e annuities is to be later restored out ot income to the fund when
the annuities no longer absorb the entire income. After restoration
ot the principal to the original sum of $30 1 000 1 the income from the
tund is to be used for the benefit ot the residents of the Covina
Home.

See notes to financial ~tat•ente.

392

393

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORKIA
STUDENT AID FUND

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
FLORENCE KATHERINE BURT TRUST FUND

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE

STATEMENT OF ASSETS LIABILITIES AND FUND BAIANCE
I

I

June 30
June 30
Savings account
Accounts receivable - security transactions
in transit
Investments (Note-C):
Bonds (quoted market $115,§00 in 1971 and
$75,000 in 1970)
Convertible preferred stock (quoted market
$105,600 in 1971 and $80,oOO in 1970)
Common stock (quoted market $156,200 in
1971 and $143,4oo in 1970)
Other assets (Note D)
TOTAL ASSETS

$ 15,012

$ 42,149

-o-

126,180

95,105

119,095

128,846

l:Z:2 1 444
417,719
1
$459,869

201.077
425,028

•

cash
Accounts receivable - security transaction
in transit
Notes receivable (Note B)
Investments (Note C):
Bonds (quoted market $32,700 in 1971 and
$98,0oo in 1970)
Convertible preferred stock (quoted market
$21,200 in 1971 and $23,000 in 1970)
Common stock (quoted market $3o6,500 in
1971 and $145,000 in 1970)

transit
Accounts PS¥able - security transactions in
transit
]).le to General Fund
FUND BALANCE
Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Interest
Dividends
Gifts
George F. and Laura E. Brigham Scholarship
Fund income (Note H)
Bequests
Loss on sales of securities - net
Transferred to General Fund for educational
benefits for Covina residents
Grants for educational purposes
NET INCREASE (DECREASE)
Balance at end of year
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
NOTE:

See notes to financial statements.

-o63,642

38.753

105,688

25,o84

34,935

268 184z
$433,o68

2021422
346 1048
$448,032

TOTAL ASSETS

$146,o66

$146,.o66

-o146,066

155,899

292,133

361,o87

(24,396)
6,954
12,311

11,574)

-o(21131)
2871002
i433ao68

(86 2581)
(682224)

LIABILITIES
$ 19,999
-o-

Due to General Fund

42a72:Z:
65,796

• 13,323
-o13,323

426,718

418,029

3,693
11,671
214

9,~35

-o-o(2,426)

2,213
7,620
(377)

Accounts PS¥able - security transactions in
transit

2a83~

FUND BALANCE

(45,797)
-o(~2 1 642)

~24aO:Z:~
~4~2.862

9, 02
35

f9.789~

.!h620
8a682
426 1 718
!44o 11)41

The fund is-designated by the trustees for use for student

aid.

$ 38,342

5,039
49,876

~~2 1 684

$440,041

LIABILITIES

Bank advances - security transactions in

$ 45,469

Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct) :
Loss on sale of securities - net
Interest
Dividends
Transferred to Property Fund for Covina
redevelopment
NET DECREASE
Balance at end of year
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

g~~~~

22211~3

i448 1 032

NOTE:
The.principal, subject to the provision in the Will of the
testator, shall be used for renovating present premises or making
permanent additions to the Masonic Homes within a period of ten years
from January 5, 1965, the date of the decree of distribution. Onethird of the principal is designated for the Covina Home and twothirds for the Decoto Home.
See notes to financial statements.

394

- PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON FUND

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
ALIDA O. MESERVE TRUST FUND

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND P'UHD BALANCE

STATEMENT OF ASSEIS AND FUND BALANCE

395

June 30
caah
Investments (Note C):
Bonds (quoted market $50,700 in 1971 and
$85,000 in 1970}
Covertible preferred stock (quoted market
$16,100 in 1971 and $19,000 1n 1970)
Common stock (quoted market $216,000 in
1971 and $127,000 in 1970}
TOTAL ASSETS

June 30

$ 6,365

$ 17,926

59,672

93,600

18,349

28,100

2021798
280 1812

1641174
28:?a8z4

~28z 1 ia4

!~0~ 1 000

Savings account
Accounts receivable - security transaction .
in transit
1
!nvestments (Note C):
Bonds (quoted market $58,300 in 1971 and.
$65,000 in 1970}
convertible preferred stoclt. (quoted market
$40,000 in 1971 and $32,ooO in 1970}
Common stock (quoted market $69,000 1n
1971 and $26,000 1n 1970}

LIABILITIES

TOTAL ASSETS

Accounts payable - security transaction in
transit

Bank advances - security transaction in

Balance at beginning ot year
Add (deduct}:
Loss on sale ot securities - net
Interest
Dividends
Other
Transfer to General Fund for reimbursement
of special benefits for Decoto residents
NET DECREASE
Balance at end of year

$293,967

302,158

(654)

(11,302)

,792
-o-

.78.J

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND. FUND BALANCE

NOTE:

~,162

(18 1 o8~)

transit
Due to General Fund

(61783}

201 1184

~312§'.l

~2BJ;,184

£~o~ 1 8oo

The principal, subject to the provision in the Will ot the
testator, shall be used to contribute to comf'ort, convenience, and
enjoyment of the residents of the necoto Home.

67,504

83,231

32,594

42,645

2Ia213
1581011

12~.~22

~1z21086 .

~1~21066

~.442

$ 11,~
561
67,153

Balance at beg:1.nning ot year
MY (deduct} :
oa!n (loss) on sale of securities - net
:interest
Dividends
Pool refinishing expense transferred to
General Fund
Capital improvements in recreation area
transferred to Property Fund
NET DECREASE
Balance at end of year

159,086

$164,443

1,018
4,~56

3, 77

(7,~96}
~·,323
11

-o-

(1,300}

{561004)
(471123)

{41422}

11112~3

1221086

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALAlfqE

~17~1086

~l~~.086

:ROTE:

See notes to financial statements.

~

FUND BALANCE

l,144

(10182,2}
(81121)

-o-

• 21,075

LIABILITIES

$ 9,833

FUND BALANCE

$ 5,761

(21~~)

The principal is to be used for playgrounds, playground
equipment, and other ·comparable forms of amusement for the boys at
Covina.
See notes to financial statements.

396

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
MINNIE E. PETERSON FUND
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

Year ended June 301 1971
June 30

Investme nts (Note c) :
Bonds (quoted market $9,900)
Common stock {quoted market $3,300)
Insuranc e Securi~ies Incorpor ated Trust Fund
Certific ate (due August 11 1970)

TOTAL ASSETS
LIABILITIES
Due to general fund
FUND BALANCE

NOTE A - Basis of Accountin g

The financia l statemen ts are stated on a modified cash basis
of account.in g. Generally . revenues are recorded at the time ot receipt
and expenses are accrued at year end.

• 9,i63
3. 79

NOTE B - Notes Receivab le

-o-

~12 1 008

$13.442

$12,008

•

Investme nts in securitie s purchased are recorded at cost and
securitie s received by gift or bequest are recorded at approxim ate
market value on the date received .

243

-o(900)
-o-

NET INCREASE
Balance at end of year

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

NOTE:

Notes receivab le arise from the sale of real estate assigned
to the Homes by residents of Decoto and from rea.J. estate received as
gifts or bequests by the Homes.
NOTE C - Investme nts

12,008
1,445
176
470

Balance at beginnin g of year
Add {deduct) :
Gain on sale of securitie s
Interest
Dividend s
Bequest by Minnie E. Peterson
Payments to benefici ary
Decline in market value

397

NOTE D - Other Assets

1~1122

$15(477
(31162
121008
121008

~131442

~121008

1 1 121

300J

The Homes is required to pay a lite annuity atter which
the Homes receives title to the Fund.

, real estate,
Othe~ assets consist of life insurance policies
assets
and mineral rights assigned or bequeathe d to the Homes. These
bility. Pa¥are recoz:ded at the nominal value of $1 each tor accounta
ments by the Homes of obligatio ns of the assignors secured by these
assets are added to the nominal value.
NOTE E - Property

Land, building s, and equipment are recorded at original cost
and no deprecia tion is taken. Addition s Which represen t minor replacements of property are charged to eJCpense.
At June ~o. 1971, the trustees had approved contracts totaling approXim ately f725 1 000 tor the construc tion ot a Community Center
at Covina.
NOTE F - Pensions

See notes to financia l statemen ts.

tullThe Homes have establish ed a pension plan covering allJune
301
ended
time employee s. The total pension expense tor the years
$60,000, respectiv ely.
1971 and 1970 was approXimately $74,ooo and have
been funded.
All prior service and current service costs

398

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NOTE G - Reserves tor Special. Purposes
The trustees have established various special. reserves to
which are added gifts and be~uests and other amounts which generally
are used at the direction of the trustees tor purposes other than
direct operating expenses. The assets represented by these reserves
are included 1n the assets of the General. Fund.
N~ H - Changes 1n Accounting tor Trust Fund

Effective JUly 1, 1970, the income earned by the George F.
and Laura E. Brigham Scholarship Fund was retained by the Fund. In
prior years, the earnings were transferred to the Student Aid Fund.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

399

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The additional information presented in the following pages,
'llhich has been taken primarily from accounting and other records of
Masonic Homes of California, has been subjected to the tests and other
auditing procedures applied in our examination of the financial statements of Masonic Homes of California for the year ended June 30, 1971.
In our opinion, such information is fairly presented 1n all material.
re'spects in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole
although it is not necessary for a fair presentation of financial.
position or results of operations.

T~ ~rs1G>.
Certified Public Accountants

400

401

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASON!C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

STATEMENT OF RESERVE FOR COVINA REDEVELOPMENT
Year Ended June 30

Year Ended Jun~
Reserve for additions and replacements
Reserve tor Covina redevelopment
Reserve tor Decoto redevelopment
Covina reserve
Decoto reserve.
Unappropriated reserve
Covina entertainment reserve
Decoto entertainment reserve
TOTAL RESERVES FOR
SPECIAL PURPOSES

rn

Balance at beginning of year

$4;171,286
20,595
5,163
2,215,237
2,818,096
50,000
6,910
3,294

Add {deduct):
Transfer trom Covina reserve
Contr-ibutions
Memorials
Loss on sale of securities - net

STA!rli:MENT OF RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Assets assigned by residents· on admission to the Decoto Home, including
proceeds from sale of real estate
and life insurance polictes
Bequests
Loss on sale of securities - net
contributions
Transfer from (to) General Fund
Transfer from unappropriated reserve
Transter to property fund, tor additions
to Covina Home
·
NET INCREASE

$4,292,452

Ba.lance at end of ye~r

l,765
3,943
139
(401) _ i l l )
14,819 -2.Lll§.

$20,595

Balance at end of year
NOTE:

*-o-

15,220
-oNET INCREASE

$9,890,581

1212

~

This reserve is credited with amounts to be used tor Covina

~edevelopment.

STATEMENT OF RESERVE FOR DECOTO REDEVELOPMENT
Year ended June 30 1 1971

523,287
134,285
(92,965)
l,346
(3,279)
-o-

383,534
371,886
{28,496)
50
700,000
l,441,3o8

Ba.lance at beginning of year

*-o-

Add (deduct):
Contributions
Loss on sale o~ securities - net

---.ill!)

(83,84o)
478,834

(615,279)
2,253,003

Balance at end of year

$4,771,286

$4,292,452

!fO'l'E:

This reserve is credited with amounts to be used for
general purposes of the Decoto and Covina Homes.

s.264

NET INCREASE
NOTE:

~

~

This reserve is credited with amounts to be used tor Decoto
redevelopment.

402

403

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OP' CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE

STATEMENT OF COVINA RESERVE

Year Ended June 30
Year Ended Jun~

m

Balance at beginning ot year

Balance at beg:L:rming of year
Add (deduct):
Bequests
Contributions
Loss on sales of securities - net
Transfers to General Fund, to reimburse
the fund for operating expenses of
Covina Home:
Replacement of equipment
Alumni newsletter
EI:Iployee in service study program
Transfer to property fund
Transfer to reserve for Covina
redevelopment
NET INCREASE (DECREASE)

$2,379,155
289,205
1,433
(43,414)

Balance at end of year

$2,215,236

$1,859,665
574,040
4,960
(15,917)

Deduct transfer to reserve for additions
and replacements
Balance at end of year

m

$1,491,306

-o-

1,4411308
$ 50,000

$50,000

NOTE:

(ll,533l
(913
(:;,011
(396,686

(10,073l
(321
(1,988
(29,446

-o-

(l,765~

(163,919)

519,490
$2,379,155

NOTE:

This reserve is credited with amounts to be used for the
benefit of the Covina Home.

During 1970, the trustees authorized the transfer ot all
but $50,000 to the reserve for additions and replacements.

STATEMENT OF COVINA ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
Bs3:ance at beginning of year
A.d.4 (deduct) :
Contributions
Transfer to General Fund to reimburse for
entertainment expenses of Covina Home
NET DECREASE

$ 7,330
7,892
(8,312)
(420)

$

Balance at end of year

$ 6 .910

:i*=-=-7!.i.!;!311113-.0

STATEMENT OF DECOTO RESERVE
Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Bequests
Loss on sale of securities - net
C. N. Flint Trust Fund income
Transfer of C. N. Flint Trust Fund
George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund income
Contributions
Transfers to General Fund to reimburse
the fund for operattiig expenses of
Decoto Home:
Employee in service study program
Special benefits to residents
Replacements of equipment
Transfer to property fund
NET INCREASE
Balance at end of year

Jm

$50,000

$2,424,975

$1,846,553

479,188
(55,084)

365.434
(16,628)
11,808
295,569

-o-o-

758

568

(725l
(2,433
(7.713
(21,438
393,121
$2,818,096

851
72
-o-o-

(75,166}
(3.518)

NOTE:
This reserve is credited with a.mounts to be used for the
benefit of the Decoto Home.

8,756
6,645
(8,071)
(1,426)

STATEMENT OF DECOTO ENTERTAINMENT·RESERVE
JNlance at begi:nnir)g of year
Md (deduct) :
Contributions
Transfer to General Fund to reimburse for
entertainment expenses of Decoto Home
NET INCREASE {DECREASE)

$ 2,003

2,364

4,907

3,462

(3,616)
1,291

(3.823)
(361)

Balance at end of year

$ 3,294

2,003

404

405

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASOlUC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOR?rIA

INVESTMENTS

STAT.El@f'l' 01' EXPE!fSES

June 30, 1971
Year Ended J~o
DECOTO HOME:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transportati on
Allowances, etc. to residents
Administrati ve
Other
COVINA HOME:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transportati on
Camps expen!le
Allowances~ etc. to residents
Administra i ve
Educational and special
development
Other
outside relief'
ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL:
Grand Lodge - secretarial
services
Office salaries
Field investigatio ns
Investment counsel fee
Office supplies and printing
Auditing services
Legal fees in connection with
bequests
Pension and other payroll costs
Trustees' expenses
Securities safekeeping
Residents' preadmission costs
Special expenses
Other
TOTAL

Increase
(Decrease}

121!

$ 418,454

•

GENERAL FUND

4ll.,411
815,808
26,932
liJ,597
,392
177,575
771224
l,715,709

4·~
*137,970
,4

43,914
f22,214~
25,764
· lz2~
147,3

$100,000
100,000
100,000

155,468
2~,660
2 ,6o4
ao,~9
2J... l
12,808
74,677

145.m
22,
21,o65

9,469
872

205,000

16,ioo

~~;~~~

45 .. 7~
30.1
472,900

9 .. 885
l:Z:12ll
400,319

1.. 620

5.. a15

35,912
12 1 142
72 .. 581
l,745

950,252
34,902
181,511
46,178
l5l,8ll.
721247
l,863,055

71,~3

16,

9

78 .. 03

24,ooo
37.. 432
16,208
9,500
6,532
5,000

24,ooo
31,988
15.. 092
9.400
5, 18
9.. 260

4.463
l ,692
8,304
1,200
9,834
13,463
ll.z 75
lb5 1 20~

6,505
13 .. 310
5,091
l,200
-o-o2a~4
12012~

~21~081~8

7.5~~
9,2
5,392

5 .. 444

l,ll.6

-ol,114
(4 .. 260)

~

l ..
3,213
-o-

9,~43
13..
la 21
34.222

!2122218~1 i2~~.~~

!iOTB:

In prior years residents• preadm.ission coats and special.
expenses were charged to Decoto Home's allowances, etc. to residents.

Face

£26

~

100,000

100,000

American Tel. & Tel., 5 5/8%, August 1, 1995
American Tel. & Tel., 5 1/8%, August 1, 2001
Commonwealth Edison Co. lat., 4 5/8%, March 1,
1990.
Consumers Power Co. lat., 4 5/8%, December 1,
1990
Internationa l Bank Reconstructi on & Development
4ls%, February 1, 1990
New York State Electric & Gas, lat. 7\%,
April 1, 1976

$

99,375
100,250
67,519
67,021
135,556
100,417

New York State Electric & Gas, 1st. 7"".
April 1, 1974
40,000 Norfolk & Western Ry. co. Eq. Tr.# 3 7/8%,
January 1, 1972
100.000 Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. Eq. Tr., 5 1/8%,
January l, 1976
100,000 Northern Pacific Ry. Eq. 'l'r., 5%, March 3, 1973
50,000 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. Deb., 4 5/8%, April 1,1999
100,000 Seaboard Airlines Ry. Eq. 'l'r. 4 7/8%,
March 1, 1976
100,000 Seaboard Airline Ry.~Eq. Tr., 4 7/8%,
.March 1, 1975
200,000 Amerada Hess Sub. Deb., 6 3/4%, March 15, 1996

200,000

100,000 Aluminum Co. of America, Conv., 5"",
September 15, 1991
200,000 American Broadcasting Co, Co~v., 5%,
July 1, 1993
164,000 Amfac Inc., 5\%, May 1, 1994,Conv.
100,000 Cabot, Cabot, And Forbes 6.75%, Conv. Sub.
Deb. 6.75% March 15, 1991
20,000 Castle & Cook, Conv. 5 3/8%, March 1, 1994
100,000 Chase Manhattan Conv., 6ls%, .May 1, 1996

100,768

200,000

39,499
99,423
99,708
45,250
98,641
98,395
200,000

200,000
163,351
100,000
18,505
100,000

406

PllOCEEDINGS OF THE
Jl1\S0Nl'.C HOMES OP CALIPORNV.

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFCJl.NIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, l97l

GENERAL PUlllD (Continued)

Gl!:l!IERAL POND (Continued)

BONDS

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCX

Pace

Jrumber

~

$100,000
100,000
53,000
90,000
l00,000
200,000
l00,000
200,000
50,000
12,700

eo,ooo
5,000

Coat
Del Monte Corp. Conv. 5\%, March 1, 1994
FMC Corp. Conv. 4\%, July 15 1 1992
First National City Bank N y
4% Conv.
July 1, 1990
I
o •I
I
General Tel. & Electric, Conv. 4%, March 15, 1990
Grolier Inc., Conv. 4\%, November 1, 1987
New lmgland Tel. & Tel. Reg. Deb. 8.20%
June 1, 2004
Pan American World Air, Conv. 51:1%,
February 15, 1989
Rochester Telephone Corp., Conv. 4 3/4%
March 1, 1994
Stauffer Chemical, Conv. 4'5% April 1, 1991
Virginia Ry. Sub. Inc. Deb. G%
August 1, 2008
Wells Pargo Bank Cap. Notes, 41:1%
Septeinber 15, 1989
Wheeling Steel Corp. Conv. 3 3/4%, Novelnber 15, 1975
ltenwood-in-the-Pines Community Association
first mortgage bond
'
TOTAL BONDS

$

98,250
98,250
52,125
67,353
96,250
200,000
100,000

50,125
14,031
73,400
5,166

$3.l89.l4~

NUl'llber of
Shares
.£2!,t

Amerada Hess $3.50 Cnv.
American Metal Climax, $4.00 env.
American Water Works, $4.10 env.
Atlantic Richfield, $2.80 Cnv.
Consolidated Foods, $4.50 Cnv.

pt 8hares

$ 164,429
225,356
28,181
42,185
40,757

Cost

700
lOO
2,600
2,500
2,400

Diamond' Shamrock $2.00 env.
Kaiser Alumin\llll & Chemical, 4 1/8"' Cnv.
Marcor, Xnc. $2.00, env.
Newmont .Mining co., $4.50, Cnv.
J?w:ex Corp. r.td. $1.35, env.

1,500
600
1,052
500

RCA Corp. $4.00, env.
Reynolds Metals, 41:1%, Cnv.
sun Oil eo., $2.25, env.
Union Oil Co. of California, $2.50 1 Cnv.
1'0'17J.o CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

200,518

C9!\1ERTIBLE PREPERru!:D STOCK

2,000
2,400
900
630
400

407

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$

33,569
10,326
132,818
216,122
80,551
148,672
57,798
56,820
33,748

$1,271,332

COMMON STOCX
Jll'mnber
ot Shares

Cost

4,250
1,500
1,400
5,400
3,181

American Cyanamid Co.
American Electric Power
American Smelting & Refining
American Tel, & Tel.
Bank of America

4
1,800
5,000
2,000
3,030

Borden, Inc.
Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Cabot, Cabot & Forbes
Central Illinois Light
Central Tel. & Utilities

106
43,226
l00,000
47,462
60,327

1,125
1,700
l,530
5,100

Chase Manhattan Corp.
Chase Manhattan Mtge. & lUty
Cincinnati Gas & Electric
Colgate-Palmolive Co.
Columbia Gas System
Consolidated Natural Gas
Continental Oil eo.

42,394
51,533
40,597
241,167
22,922
15,297
75,591

778

400
2,092

$

l..'13,985
58,450
55,706
286,680
185,732

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mii.SONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

JW!ONIC !EMBS OP CALJ:PORNIA

..INVESTMENTS

INYESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

GENERAL FUND (Continued)

GENERAL FOND

COMMON STOCK

SQtt
Corona Foothill Lemon co.
El Paso Natural Gas
First National City Corp. New York
General Electric Co.
General Motors Corp.

1,596
811
2,000
333
420

(Continued)

COMMON STOCK

Nlllllher
of Shares
1,020
332
1,318
3,770
1,019

409

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$

30·,~00

llullb•r

£2.!.t

of Sbarea

$

144,521
399
242,767
137,335
53,196

8,203
44,495
159,865
76,042

3,750
253
,,045
1,800
1,111

Southern Pacific Co.
Southern Realty Co.
Standard Oil of California
Standard Oil of New Jeraey
Teledyne, Inc.

General Telephone & Electronics
B. F. Goodrich Co.
J. H. Heinz Co
International Business Machines
Litton Industries

64,, 720
36,744
85,306
104,129
31,431

1,700
2,200
3,075
1,667
788

Texae Utilities Co.
Union Camp Corp.
Union Carbide Corp.
Union Oil of California
Vnited States Gypsum

90,243
65,025
140,823
84,078
62,400

4,000
4,000
2,200
1,750
1,000

Melville Shoe Corp.
Mobil Oil Co.
Morgan & Co. (J.P)
Northern Mortgage Co.
Ohio Edison Co.

129,982
213,068
143,967
7,438
26,320

3,278
85

Warner-Lambert Co.
Wickenden Co.

208,921
149

3,049
2,200
2,747
8,600
3,200

Pacific Gas & Electric
Panhandle Eastern Pipeline
J. c. Penney Co.
Pfizer & Co.
Proctor & Gamble

98,133
80,036
136,336
293,473
171,906

1,150
2,500
21
10
925

Public Service Electric & Gas
Quaker Oats Co.
Ramona Savings & Loan Assn.
Royal Hotels, Inc.
Seara, Roebuck & Co.

41,237
100,738
16,800
1
56,862

6,294
3,600
1,000
1,766
2,792

Security Pacific National Bank
Sherwin-Williama
Signal Oil & Gas Co.
Southern California Edison
Southern Natural Gas Co.

167,700
165,562
32,513
61,042
90, 792

various stocks of undetermined value, carried at
nominal value.
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

4

$5,366.477

Pace

~

~

100,000
1,000,000
300,000
100,000
100,000

Federal National Mortgage, 5 1/8",
February 10, 1972
Federal National Mortgage, 5.45~,
April 1, 1976
American Tel. & Tel. 4 3/4%,
June 1, 1998
American Tel. & Tel., 5.125%,
April 1, 2001
American Tel. & Tel. 5.62%
April 1, 1995

$

99,911
1,000,000
200,302
100,250
99,375

410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIPQl!NIA

MASONIC HOMES OF.CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT POND (Cont!pµ!dl

PERM!\NENT ENDOWMENT FUND (Continued)

~

Face
Value
150,000
155,000
l00,000
250,000
100,000
100,000
200,000
200,000
1,000,000
200,000
355,000
250,000
250,000
l00,000
100,000

~

Cosf:
Burlington Northern, 8~,
May 1, 1996
Chase Manhattan Mtge & Rlty., 6~,
May 1, 1996
Chicago Burlington & Quincy Ry, Bq. Tr.
4.875%, September 15, 1976
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry, Eq. Tr,, 7 3/4%,
August 1, 1977
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry, Eq. Tr,, 9%,
June 1, 1978

$ 150,000

Chesapeake & Ohio Ry, Eq. Tr., 9.125%,
June 1, 1980
Florida Power & Light, 1st., 4,37%,
December 1, 1986
Great Northern Ry. Eq, Tr., 4\%,
April 15, 1972
Gulf Oil Corp. Notes Reg,, 6\%,
June 1, 1976
Gulf Mobile & Ohio Ry. Eq, Tr. 4,625%
January 1, 1974

100,169

International Bank Reconstruction &
Development, 4\%, February 1, 1990
Illinois Central Eq. Tr., 5\%,
June 1, 1978
International Bank Reconstruction &
Development, 4~, February 1, 1982
:Kansas Gas & Electric,,lst. 3,375%,
February 1, 1986
Louisville & Nashville Ry. Eq. Tr., 4 3/8%,
August 15, 1973

411

155,000
98,588
2~7,088

101,395

179,000
198,224
l,000,000
194,514

Pace

nm
200,000
200,000
300,000
50,000
100,000
100,000
100,000
350,000
130,000
500,000

234,744
220,073
215,625
77 I 750
98,838

100,000
100,000
130,000
100,000
200,000

New York State Gas & Electric Corp. Reg,
7\%, April 1, 1976
New York State Gas & Electric Corp. Reg.
7%, February 1, 1978
New England Tel, & Tel,, 8.20%,
June 1, 2004
Norfolk & Western Ry, Eq. Tr. 3 7/8%,
January 1, 1972
Norfolk & Western Ry. Eq. Tr. 5.125%,
January 1, 1973
Norfolk & Western Ry. Eq. Tr., 5.125%,
January 1, 1977
Northern Pacific Ry. Eq. Tr., 4 1/8%,
March 18, 1973
Pacific Tel. & Tel,, Deb. 4.625%,
April 1, 1999
Pennsylvania Ry. Eq, Tr. 5\%,
October 1, 1975
Philadelphia Electric, 8%,
August 15, 1975
Public Service Electric & Gas Co,, 1st, Ref.
4 3/8%, November 1, 1986
So. California Gas Co. 1st. Mtg., 3\%,
April 1, 1982
Southern California Edison 1st. & Ref.
4 3/8", May 15, 1988
Southern Pacific Trans. Eq. Tr. 8.75%,
April 1, 1979
Southern Pacific Trans. Eq. Tr. 8%,
November 1, 1977

$

200,834
202,749
300,000
49,374
99,010
99,787
97,549
244,375
129,516
505,000
89,250
81,375
86,613
100,026
207,892

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MASONXC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC ·HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND (Continued)

PIRMA!!ENT ENDOWMENT FUND (Continued)

~

fil!lM

Face
Value
300,000
100,000
200,000
100,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
326,000
170,000
100,000
150,000
100,000
400,000
60,000
100,000
.500,000

Cost
Southern Pacific Trans, Eq. Tr., 4~,
December 1, 1972
Southern Ry. Eq. Tr., 9%,
June 1, 1976
Toledo Edison, 6 1/8%,
August 1, 1979
Aluminum Co. of America, Conv. 5'-",
·
September 15, 1991
Aluminum Co. of America, Conv. 5%,
January ~· 1991

413

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$

290,619

Pace

£2.tt

~

94,000

101,138

100,000

202,095

330, ooo.

102,500

100,000

283,750

50,000

Amerace Corp. Conv., 5%,
September 1, 1992
American Broadcasting Co., Conv., 5%
July 1, 1993
Amfac rnc., 5'-", Conv. Sub. Deb.
May 1, 1994
Beaunit Corp. Conv. 4\%,
August 1, 1990
Cabot, Cabot & Forbes, Conv. 6.75%,
March 15, 1991

207,500

200,000

110,267

17,300

325,780

100,000

133,446

135,000

Castle & Cook, Conv. Deb. 5 3/8%,
March 1, 1994 .
Coftsumer Power, Conv., 4 5/8%,
December 1, 1990
Del Monte Corp., Conv. Deb., 5'-",
March 1, 1994
Dillingham Corp., Conv., S~,
April 1, 1994
FMC Corp. Conv., Sub. Deb., 4~,
July 15, 1992
Crocker National Corp., 5 3/4%,
Conv. Sub. Deb., May 15, 1996

146,000

378,560
60,000
109,500
500,000

97,200
89,250
302,135
100,000
49,128
200,000

Transworld Airlines, Conv. 5%,.
January 1, 1994
Virginia Ry. Co. Sub. Income Deb.
6%, Auguat·l, 2008
Wells Far.go Bank Capital Notes, 4lfi',
September 15, 1989
Wheeling Steel Corp. Conv. Deb., 3 3/4%,
November 15, 1975

100,000

67' 018

$

First National City Bank, Conv.
Capital Notes·, 4%, July 1, 1990
General Motors Acceptance, Conv. Dab.
4 5/8%, September 1, 1982
General Tel. & Tel. Conv. Deb.
4%, March 15, 1990
Pan America World Air, 5'-", Conv.
February 15, i989
Stauffer Chemical co., Conv, 4~,
April 1, 1991

19,113
88,500
124,889

TOTAL BONDS

$11,462,584

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

llTWnber
of Shares

Cost
$

265,029

3,000

Amerada Hess Corp. $3.50 Cnv.

2,100

American Metal Climax $4.00 Cnv.

188,146

600

American Water Works $4.10 Cnv •

18,812

600

Atlantic Richfield Co. $2."80 Cnv.

44,105

414

415

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
!{ASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORHIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND (Continu ed)
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED ETOCK

PERMl'.NENT ENDOWMENT FUND (Continu ed)
COMMON STOCK

Number of
Shares

Number of
Shares

Cost

5,206

Co11DJ1onwealth Edison $1.425 Cnv.

600

Consolid ated Foods, $4.50 Cnv.

60, 759

2,300

Diamond Shamrock Co. $2.00 Cnv.

110,485

l,~00

157,427

2,200

Kaiser Aluminum & Chemica l $4 1/8 cnv.
Marcor Inc. $2.00 Cnv.

116,143

2,000

Newmont Mining Co. $4.50 Cnv.

1,300

$

176,541

Cost
$

146,743

5,900

Bethlehe m Steel Corp.

4,600

Borden Inc.

5,000

Cabot,

6,080

Central Illinoi s Light Co.

137,890

6,565

Central Tel. & Utilitie s

132,973

214,348

Purex Corp Ltd. $1.35 Cnv.

7,500

Chase Manhatt an Bank

366,560

42,841

1,500

RCA Corp. $4.oo cnv.

148,998

3,200

Chase Manhatt an Mtge. & Rlty.

99, 703

1,400

Reynolds Metal Co. $4.50 Cnv.

144,603

6,500

Cincinn ati Gas & Electric Co.

155 I 570

2,000

Sun Oil Co. $2.25 Cnv.

108,805

7,900

Colgate -Palmol ive Co.

334,698

900

Union Oil Co. $2.50 Cnv.

§0,602

4,478

Columbi a Gas System, Inc.

117,065

3,759

Consoli dated Natural Gas Co.

142,615

9,980

Contine ntal Oil Co.

380,637

5,800

El Paso Natural Gas Co.

138,951

Coat

2,862

First Nationa l City Corp.

82,638

359,427

12,818

General Electric Co.

s2s,022

3,957

General Motors Corp.

288,628

2,806

General Tel. & Electro nics

117,612

1,200

B. F. Goodric h Co.

57 I 563

TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERIUm STOCK

~ 1,857,64 4

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares
10,800

American Cyanamid Co.

2,000

American Electric Power Co.

78,119

4,700

American Smelting & Ref.

156,063

4,527

Al'llerican Tel •• & Tel.

261,944

2,584

Bank of America

$

126,208

..

C~bot Q

135,201

Forbes

100,000

416

W.SOl!IC HOMES or CALIFORNIA

.MASONid HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971
P~ENT

PERMANENT ENDOWMEN'1' FUND (Continue d)

ENDOWMENT FUND (Continue d)

COMMON STOCK

COMMON STOCK

llulllber of
Shares ·

Number of
Shares
9,000

Heinz Co. (H.J.)

417

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Cost
$

347,934

•

1,600

Si~nal

Cga!;
$

Oil Inc •

51,314

3,081

Southern Calif. Edison Co.

111,513

Internat ional Business Machines

246,462

5,200

southern Natural Gas Co.

177,959

2,784

Litton Industrie s Inc.

206,516

5,800

Southern Pacific Co.

201,869

10,800

Melville Shoe Corp.

377,013

4

Southern Realty Co.

3,500

Mobile Oil Co.

158,903

2, 785

Standard Oil ·of Californi a·

144,606

4,800

J. P. Morgan & Co.

270,676

3,100

Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey

218,823

5,200

Ohio Edison Co.

129,543

3,301

'l'eledyne, Inc.

147,467

1,009

116,373

800

ll

Pacific Gas & Electric Co.

30, 736

1,939

Texas Utilities co.

8,700

Panhandl e Eastern Pipeline Co.

311,491

2,000

T):ansierr a Bxplorati on Corp.

6,200

J. c. Penney Co.

243,407

5,300

Union Ca111p Corp.

152,402

9,600

Pfizer & Co.

329,918

7,000

Union Carbide ~orp.

355,294

4,836

Proctor & Gamble Co.

202,701

Union Oil Co. of Californi a

56,161

1,900

Public Service Electric & Gas

68,137

4,099

Public Service Colorado

127,069

5,500

Quaker Oats Co.

228,078

3,064

San Diego Gas & Electric Co.

75,086

3,345

Sears Roebuck & Co.

203, 797

6,400

Sherwin & Williams co.

313,236

1,440

Security Pacific Nat'l Bank

28,567

908

25

United States Gypsum Co.

155,850

9,037

Warner-La lllbert Co.

597.493

25,000

Western Empire Petroleum Co.•

1,800

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

125
~10.829,08~

418

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORllIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971
G!;;QRGI P.

419

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACJl' POND

AND LAQRA E. WGHAK SCJ!OW§RIP PUllD
~

Pace

Pace

Y!!.!!!...
10,000

Co•t
Beaunit Corp. Cnv. 4\%,
8-1-90
TOTAL BoNDS

$

Co•t

~

8,054

is,oo·o

International Bank for Recon.
& Developement, 4~, 2-1-90

8.054

10,000

Wheeling Steel Co. Cnv. 3 3/4%,
TOTAL BONDS

9,919
10.296
$

20,215

Q9MMON STOClC
Humber of
Shares

•• 8,892

300

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty

100

General Motors Corp.

400

Ohio Edison Co.

7,577

100

Pfizer & Co.

3,602

50

Southern Pacific

2.158

7,336

TOTAL COMMON S'l'OClC

$

29,565

GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. PERINE ENDOWMENT FtJHD
COMMON STOCK

Co•t

Contenintal Oil Co.

200

Ohio Edison Co.

100

Pfizer l:nc.

$

3,406
4,666
3,288

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

&umber of
Shares

Cost

300

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty.

8,892

200

General Electric Co.

8,375

100

General Motors Corp.

7,311

200

Ohio Edison Co.

3,766

200

Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Co.

7,046

200

Pfizer Inc.

7 465

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

Number of
Shares
65

COMMON STOCK

Coat

$

11. 362

$

42.879

420

421

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

STOJ)ENT Alp FUND (Continued)

HARRIET C. WADLEIGH~ AliM7ITll' FUND

CONVERTIBLE.PREFERRED STOCK

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares

Cost

200

Ohio Edison co.

3,763

30

Southern Pacific co.

1.298
TOTAL COM.MON STOCK

5,061

STUDENT AID FUND

llwllber of
Shares

Cost
$

15,676

500

American Water Works $4.10 Cnv.

200

Atlantic Richfield . $2.80 Cnv.

11,564

400

Marcor Inc. $2.00 Cnv.

21,093

300

Purex Corp. Ltd. $1.3$ Cnv.

10,160

9.00

Union Oil Co. $2.50 Cnv.

60,602

TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK $ 119,09$

Face
Value

Cost

25,000

Pennsylvania Ry. Eq. Tr.
5\%, 10-1-75

25,000

Southern California Gas Co.
lat. Mtg. 31f.l', 4-1-82

20,344

10,000

Beaunit Corp. Cnv. 4~,
8-1-90

8,054

35,000

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty,.
61f.l', Cnv. 5-1-96

35,000

50,000

General Tel. & Electronics
4%, 3-15-90

~

24,907

37,875
TOTAL BONDS

$ 126 1 180

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares

Cost
$

7, ,023

200

American Smelting & Ref.

38

Bank of America

2,570

Bethlehem Steel

18,068

1,240

Continental Oil Co.

50,266

200

Melville Shoe Corp.

6,763

200

Ohio Edison Co.

5,264

400

Panhandle Eastern Pipeline

13,794

400

Pf!zer Inc.

13,749

600

422

PROCEED INGS OF THE
)?.SONIC HOMES OP-CALIFORNIA

10,SORIC HOMES OP CALil'ORUA.

INVESTMENTS
'Jun11

INYESTMBNTS

30, 1971

JUne 30, 1971

STUDENT AID PUNp (Continued)

PLQRENCl!l DTHERDTl!l SORT om.UST PCli1D (Continued)

COMMON .STOCK

CONVERTIBLE PRE!'l!llUll!lD STQC!;

Number of
Shares
1,200
500

423

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Cost

Signal Oil Co.

$

Union Camp Corp.

38,883

lfamber Of

Shares

200

Cost

Union Oil Co. of California aiv. $2.50

l6,06•i
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

$

TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED S'l'OCK

$

13.520

$

25,094

172.444
COMMON STOCK
Jrumber of

Shares

FLORENCE JOI.THERINE BURT TRUST FUND

200
1,000

Face
Value

Cost
American Tel. & Tel. Co.

$

13,764

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & lUty

30,222

Coat

200

Columbia Gas System xnc.

6,570

19,92S

200

Bl Paso Natural Gas co.

4,635

Castle & Cook., Inc. Cnv. 5 3/8%
3-1-94

9,303

400

~irst Nat'l

200

2,000

First National City Bank N.Y. 4%
Cnv. cap. notes , 7-1-90

General Motors Co.

2, 000

400

General Electric Corp.

16,735

10,000

General !rel. & Electric Cnv. 4%
.·Dab., 3-i5-90 ·

7.525

1,000

J. :a:. ·Heinz Co.

42,508

200

Ohio Edison co.

5,264

200

Panhandle Eastern »ipeline Co.

6,445

500

Charles Pfizer & co.

17,022

200

Signal Oil eo.

6,472

468

Southern California Edison Co.

l?,481

20,000. Pennsylvan ia Ry, Eq. Tr., 5\%
10-1-75
10,000

$

TOTAL BONDS

$

38,753

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
Number of
·Shares
200

Atlantic Richfield Cnv. $2,80

Cost
~

11,564

City Bank N.Y.

11,699
14,608

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
w.som:c HOMES OJ' CALIFORnA

MASONIC BOMES OP CALIPOR§IA

INYESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

PLQRElllCB J<ll.TDRINl! BURT ptl'S'l l'O!l!D (Continued)

EDMOND CLEMENT ATKINSON POND (Continued)

COMMON STOCJS

CONVERTIBLE PREFRERRED STOCK

Jl'umber of
Sharea

llUmber of

coat

Atlantia Richfield Cnv. $2.80

100

Villon Oil Co. of California

825

Union Oil Co. of California

31,556

200

Warner Lambert Co.

9.133
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

$

'l'OTAL CONVERTIBLE Pll.BFERRED STOCK

269,847

J'ace

Coat

.Y!!!l!...
$

24,907
18,555

Castle & Cook Cnv. 5 3/8%
3-1-514

1,000 J'irst Nat'l City Bank, env. Cap Notea,4"
7-1-90

1,000

General Tel. & Electric Cnv. 4%,
3-15-90

15,210

20 1 000

TOTAL BONDS

11,564

$

19,349

6.785

COMMON STOCK

·~

20,000

$

Bamber of
Shares

EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON FOND

Pennsylvania Ry. Eq. Tr. 51:&%
10-1-75

Coat

200

!100

$

Shares

32,743

Standard Oil of New Jersey

25,000

425

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~

~2,672

•

Coat

200

Antariaan Smelting & Ref.

200

Bethlehem Steel Corp.

6,033

505

Central Tel. & Utilities

10,453

200

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty

5,933

150

Chase Manhattan Bank

5 1 479

500

Bl Paao Natural Gas Co.

11,146

200

l!'irst lllat'l City Bank, 1'.T.

5,745

200

General Motors Corp.

14,582

400

General Electric co.

16,770
5,264

$

6,973

200

Ohio Edison Co.

200

Panhandle Eastern Pipeline

6,396

500

Pfizer & Co.

17,022

1,000

Signal OU Co.

32,603

426

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

427

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

JO.SONIC BQMES OF CAI.li'OllNIA

MASONIC HOMES-OF CALIFORNIA

J:NVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1971

June 30, 1971

EDMOND CLEMENT ATKINSON POND (Continued)

ALIDA 0, MESERVE FUND (Continued)

COMMON STOCK

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

Number of
Share a

Co@t

f

400

Southern Pacific Co.

500

Standard .Oil Co. of New Jersey

32,743

200

Warner Lambert Co.

9.133
TOTAL COMMON STOCK $

16,523

lumber- of
&hares

Cost
$

400

Marcor Inc. Cnv. $2.00

200

Atlantic Richfield Cnv. $2.80
TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

21,029
11.565

$

32,594

202,798
COMMON STOCK

¥IDA 0, MESERVE FUND

lumber of
,,;Shares

~

Face
Cost

~

25,000
10,000
10,000

Xansas Gas & Electric, 3 3/8%,
2-l-86

$ 19,437

Southern California Edison lat.

6,663

Beaunit Corp. Cnv. 4\%, 8-l-90

8,054

& Ref, 4 3/8%, 5-15-88

20,000 .Wells Fargo Bank Cap. Notes. Cnv •
~. 9-15-89
15,000

3,036

100
300

Chase Manhattan Bank

300

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty

8,892

450

Continental Oil Co.

17,970

100

Pfizer Inc.

3,602

276

Standard Oil Co. of California

18,350

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty
6ls% cnv._ 5-1-96
TOTAL BOlilDS

Cost
$

Bethlehem Steel Co.

9,820

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

14,593
$

57 9l3
I

15,000
MINNIE PETERSON TRUST FUND
$

#7,SOf
l"•ce

Cost

.!t.!.l!.!L
10,000

Amfac Inc,

5~,

5-1-94
TOTAL BONDS

$

9,763

$

9,763

428

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

429

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1971
MINNIE PETERSON TRUST FUND (Continued,)

Number of
Shares
70

Continental Oil Co.

20

Southern Pacific Co.

Cost
$

August 10, 1971

2,811

868

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

$

3.679

Board of Trustees,
california Masonic Memorial Temple,
San Francisco, California.
We have examined the accompanying statement o~ a8sets,
liabilities and :f'und balance of California Masonic Memorial Temple
(a nonprofit corporation) as of June 30, 1971, and the related stateaents of cash revenues and expenses and changes in financial position
tor the year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance nth
aenerally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such
test~ o~ the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly the assets, liabilities and fund balance of California
Masonic Memorial Temple as of June 30, 1971, and the cash revenues
and expenses and changes in financial position for the year then ended,
on a basis consistent nth that of the preceding year.

Certified Public Accountants

430

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

431

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

STATEMBNT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES AND EXPENSES
Year Ended June 30
1971
.!27£

ASSETS
cash
Accounts receivable
Investments - at cost (quoted market
$53,300 in 1971 and $49,500 in 1970)
Land, buil<lings and equipment - at cost
(Note B}:
Temple:
Land
Bm.lding and buil<ling equipment
Furnishings
Other property
Less accumulated depreciation
Prepaid expenses

54,115
2,469

$ 214,891
3,047

67,475

67,475

734,304
5,474,436
204,219
6,412,959
622,649
7,035,608
991,037
6,044,571
8,466

7.34,3o4
5,231,283
220,001
6,185,588
464,417
6,650,005
863,351
5,786,654
1,364

$6,177,096

$6,073,431
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE}:
Interest earned:
Banlt deposits
Bonds
Gain on sale of securities
Loss on abandonment of equipment and
f'urni.shings
Interest expense

$ 198,228
2,6oo
200,828

FUND BALANCE

Contribution s:
Accumulated to June 30
Received during year (Note C}
Excess of expenses:
Accumulated to June 30
Current year
FUND BALANCE

OPERATING EXPENSES:
Salaries and payroll expense
Utilities and services
Maintenance
Insurance
Property taxes
Depreciation (Note B)
Legal and accounting
Office supplies and postage
Expenses of other real estate, including
depreciation of $30,828 in 1971 and $24,248
in 1970
Miscellaneou s
EXCESS OF OPERATING EXPENSES

LIABILITIES
Notes payable to bank - unsecured
Accounts payable and accrued expenses

OPERATING REVENUES:
Rent and other charges to public (Note D)
Rent of garage
Rent of space to Grand Lodge
Rent of other real estate

7,178,962
55,157
7,234,119

7,129,713
49,249
7,178,962

(1,111,324)
(146,527)
(1,257,851)
5,976,268

(1,063,766)
(47,558)
(1,111,324)
6,067,638

See notes to financial statements.

EXCESS OF EXPENSES OVER REVENUE

$ 92,68~
74,89
24,000
5ol861
242,44o

$162,918
86,661
24,ooo
38l936
312,515

71,337
28,431
~·,196
65
90,592
116,122
1,500
977

63,818
32,689
86,762
115,260
5,120
1,248

54,191
3,122
38o,433
(137,993}

41,238
3z898
362z027
(49,512)

981
3,281
-o-

12, 96
393

I:~~

3,~06

(10,781~

(2,015
(8 1 534)

(14,241)
-olz954

~(1462527)

H47,558)

See notes to financial statemenvs.

432

433

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

STAT»IENT OF CHANGES IN FINANCIAL POSITION

INVESTMENI' S

aune 30, 1971

Year Ended June 30
1970
1971
Face
Value

75,000

Cost
Public Service Electric & Gae
lst, & Ref. 4 3/8%, ll-1-86
TOTAL BONDS

$

67,475

$

67,475

Source of fUnds:
Operations:
Excess of expenses
Depreciation
Loss on abandonment of equipment and
furnishings
Proceeds from notes payable to bank
' Decrease in investments
Contributions received during the year
Increase (decrease) in accounts payable
and accrued expenses
Application of fUnds:
Additions to building, building
eq~pment and furnishings
Increase in prepaid expenses
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH

$(146,527)
146,950

$(47,558)
139,508

10,781
11,204
198,228

14,241
106,191
-0-

55,157

~9·8!5
9,2 9

(3zl93)
261,396

4il65
259,480

415,648
6z524
422zl72

175,212
878
176z090

~(16oz776)

~ 83i390

-0-

See notes to financial statements.

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

435

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION AUDIT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Included Herein for Convenience of Reporting)

Year ended June 30, 1971
NOTE A - Basis of Accounting
~e financial statements are presented on a modified cash
basis of accounting. Generally, revenues are recorded at the time of
receipt and expenses are accrued at year end.

August 27, 1971

NOTE B - Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated on the straight line method based
on the estimated useful lives of the assets.
NOTE C - Contributions Received
Contributions received from The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California and individuals
are summarized below:
Contributions from initiates, at $9.00 each:
Received from initiates of the prior year
Received from initiates of the current year
Less refunds and adjustments
Individual contributions and bequest
Sale o~ real estate contributed in prior year

1971

1970

$ 7,425
29,898
(181)
37,142
18,015
-0-

$ 6,399
31,293
(288)
37,4o4
9,168
2z677

~551157

~491249

NOTED - Rent and Other~Charges to Public

Board ot Trustees,
California Masonic Foundation,
San Francisco, california.
We have·examined the accompanying statement of assets,
liabilities and fund balance of California Masonic Foundation
(a nonprofit corporation) as of June 30, 1971, and the related atateM
ment of cash revenues and expenses for the year then ended. our
examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, and accordingly included such teats of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly tbe assets, liabilities and f\md bal~ce of California
Masonic Fo\llldation as of June 30, 1971, and the cash revenues and
expenses for the year th.en ended on a basis consistent with that of
the preceding period.

The decline in rent was due primarily to the auditorium being
closed for remodeling.
certified Public Accountants
NOTE E - Pension Plan
The Temple has established a pension plan covering all fulltime employees. Total pension expense for the year was $1,700. All
prior and current service costs have been funded.

436

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION'

STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES AND EXPENSES

STATEMENT OF ASSETS 1 LIABil.ITIES 1 AND FUND BALANCE

June ~o

•

21,764
3,750
-o-

$ 27,826
4,425
4,500

183,020

-0-

110,240

333,003

26,883
l
l

7,427
l
1

$345,659

$3TI,183

LIABILITIES

Accounts payable - scholarshi~s
Accrued federal excise taxes {Note E)

•

Year Ended June ~Q

!21!! 1

!21f
cash
:Rotes receivable
-Accounts receivable
Accounts receivable - security transactions
in transit
Investments at cost:
Bonds (quoted market $102 1 000 in 197J.
and $333,039 in 1970)
Common stocks (quoted market $36 1 992 in
l97J. and $4,617 in 1970)
Real estate (Note C)
Other assets (Note D)

322

$ .13,200

!Uf

Excess of expenses
Balance at end of period

363,983
-0-

3.~
1,

-0-

252000
367,920

111

364,094
(181757)
3452337
i~42a622

see notes to financial statements.

337,888

Interest:
Bonds and certificate of deposit
Savings
Dividends
111.scellaneous

$21,98~

2262
24,613
3'1-2

100

25,055

UPENSES:

$19,259
12422
20,681
552
183
21,416

:lducational grants (Mote B)
Less grants revoked

8,6oo
4 1 000
4,6oo

15,000

University of C&lifornia at Los Angeles
Clubhouse
'frustees travel expense
Miscellaneous expense
Federal excise tax (Note E)
Loss on sale of securities

15,~6
1, 97
205
a22
202 22
432812

10,179

i 1 81~I

i ~1~~7

EXCESS OF EXPENSES

!~1237)

~6~298~

!~rz: 1 10~

w.

·REVENUES:

FUND BALANCE

Balance at beginning of period
Add:
Transfers of assets fran other entities:
Masonic Club at the Ull1veraity of
C&lifornia at Berkeley
Contributions
Escrow deposit on real estate forfeited
to Foundation

437

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

See notes to financial statements.

-0-

15,000
-0-0-0-

174
252353

438

PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

439

C11.LIP9Rl!ll:A MASONIC P~'l'I:Q

li

1'0TES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

:INVESTMEN'l'S

Year ended June 30, 1971

.:iune 30, 1971
BOEDS

NOTE A - Bas is of Acc ount ing
The fina ncia l state men ts are pres
ente d on a mod ified cash
basi s of acco unti ng. Gen
eral ly, reve nues are reco
of rece ipt and expe nses are
accr ued at year end. rded at the time
NOTE B - Purp ose of Fou ndat ion
The Cali forn ia Masonic Fou ndat ion
was esta blis hed on
Janu ary ll, 1969 , p~imaril
chlU 'itab le, edu cati
purp oses . Income from thesye for
l and scie ntif il
fund s ' is used for studona
ent scho lars hips .
NOTE C - Rea l Esta te
The Cali forn ia Masonic Fou ndat ion
has reco
Clubhouse at the Uni vers
the Ma.sonic
of Cali forn ia at Los Angrded
at a nom inal valu e of oneity
eles on its books
doll
ar.
The
Fou
ndat
ion
is
curr
atte mpt ing to sell this prop erty .
entl y
NOTE D - Othe r Ass ets
The Fou ndat ion has reco rded an oil
and gas leas e on its
books at a nominal valu e of
one doll ar. The leas e eig>
July 1985 or, if oil or gas is
foun d, duri ng July 2064. ires duri ng
NOTE E - Fed eral Exc ise Taxes
The Fou ndat ion is gen eral ly exem
pt from
income taxe s but is subj ect
ral and stat e
to a ~ exci se tax on fede
its net inve stme nt
income for year s begi nnin g afte
r June 30, 1970 .

race

Cost

!lb L
60,0 00

$

Fede ral Bome Loan Bank

60,2 40

7. 65"' · B-25 -71.

50,0 00

50,0 00

Jlmerada Bess , 6.75 "
3-15 -96
TO'l'AL BONDS

$

110. 240

COMMON S'l'OCK
l'Umber of
Shar es
500

l'fiz er :i:nc.

100

sout hern Paci fic Co.

56

Stan dard oil. of C!lU fo:m ia

Cost

$

19,4 56
3,60 0
3.8J 7

1'0TAL COMMON STOCK

§

26.88 3

440

Ferraris, Natale •••••. Mar. 3, 1965

MEN RESIDEN TS-AVER AGE AGE 83.56 YEARS

Foley, Eck .•••..•••.. July 29, 1965
Foulkes, Caradoc •••. Sept. 24, 1968
Fox, Floydt .•.•••••. Nov. 7, 1969
Freeman, T. Reed •••• July 15, 1965

Name

• Indicates admission during current year

Name

Admitted

ANNUAL REPORT
JULY 1, 1970 TO JUNE 30, 1971

t Indicates couples

Admitted

Ahlborn, George •••... Oct.10, 1961
Allen, Arthur •....... Aug. 25, 1967
Allen, Milton ....•.... Apr.15, 1969
Anderson, Alfred ...••. Oct. 9, 1964
Arnold, Marion .•..•• Aug. 25, 1969
Bacon, Herbert ••.••. Mar. 23, 1961
Billey, Rex ••........ Dec. 5, 1967
Banet, Jesse .......... July 13, 1967
Ba.mes, William ••.... July 2, 1959
Baxley, Chanles •t .... Nov. 11, 1970
Bayard, Joseph ••.••• Dec.17, 1968
Bean, Verd •••••••••• Apr. 5, 1963
Birtses, Arthur •••..•. Aug. 25, 1969
Blaess, Ernest •....•. Sept. 20, 1963
Bothwell, Gamet ..•• Sept. 7, 1965
Brewer, Ral1>h* ...... Dec.17, 1970
Broadwell, Charles .... Feb. 12, 1964
Burns, Neil>tt ..••..•. May 24, 1971
Butler, Kenneth •••••• Dec. 31, 1964
Burnham, Art\ur .•••• Jan. 21, 1970

Lodge

No.

Parnassus.Presidio •..... 388
San FrandscoVictory ....... 360
Baldwin Park •.. 660
Hollywood ••.•.. 355
Lamanda Park .. 627
Russian River .•. 181
Delano ......... 309
AmitySeal Rock ..... 370
Live Oak ....... 61
Plymouth ••.•... 560
La Mesa ........ 407
Redwood City .. 168
Palos Verdes •••. 389
Dimond ..••.... 603
Fellowship ...... 480
Security .....•.. 581
Santa Rosa . . . . . 57
Golden State .... 358
Park ........... 449
Lakeside ........ 760

Age

Frost, Harold ••.••••• Nov. 1, 1945

San Francisco .... 88

Gallipaue, William• .•. Oct.15, 1970
Gammon, Rodger •••. ~t. 9, 1961
Gardner, John ••.•••. Dec. 1, 1967

Town

San Francisco ••.. 83
Baldwin Park .... 86
Hollywood ....... 85
Pasadena ........ 75
Windsor .•....•.. 91
Delano .... •..•. . 87
San Francisco .••. 86
Oakland ......... 88
Oakland ......... 83
La Mesa ...•.•... 71
Redwood City .•. 81
Long Beach ••.•.. 82
Oakland ......... 90
Oakland ......... 89
Bakersfield ••.•.•. 83
Santa Rosa ...••. 98
Los Angeles ••••• 72
San Francisco ... 84
El Cajon ....... 66

Lodge

No.

Golden GateSperanza • • . . • 30
Paso Robles ••.• 286
Arcadia ........ 54 7
Mountain View .194
Argonaut.
Argonne •••••. Mil
Utopia ......... 537

ToW11

Age

San Francisco .•.. 82
Paso Robles ••...• 77
Aroadia .•..••••• 81
Mountain View .. 89
San Francisco •... 83
Los Angeles •••••• 81
Orinda .......... 78
Van Nuys ••••••. 82

Gaskill, Pen:y• •.••.. Mar. 25, 1971
Girard, Lawrence •.••• Aug.15, 1965
Gooch, Edmund ..... Sept. 26, 1968
Goyette, Frank •••... May 25, 1966
Gregory, John ••• : •• . May 26, 1970
Grigg, Harry• ••••••• May 6, 1971
Guilford, Herbert ••.. Dec. 26, 1968

East Bay •.•.... 489
Van Nuys ••••.. 450
Alta VistaMount Vernon 464
Lancaster .••••.. 437
Bakersfield •••••• 224
Friendship ••••.. 210
Hollywood .•••.. 355
San Bernardino .. 348
Anchor ••••..•.• 273
Santa Cruz . • . . . 38

Haberdier, Oliver •••. Sept. 25, 1965
Haley, Michael ••••.. Nov. 4, 1961
Harrison, Jay• ••••.. Mar.11, 1971
Hemming, Frank. ..••.. Oct.12, 1964
Hennings, Sigurdt .••• Jan. 6, 1967
Hermans, Howard ..•. Oct.31, 1960
Hillman, Otto ..•••••. July 26, 1966
Hirt, John• •.•...••.. Dec.18, 1970
Holloway, Dee ....... Jan.31, 1966
Holmes, George •..•.• Oct. 3, 1969
Hoopes, Wilmert •.••• July 3, 1968
Hunt, Roy•t ..••.••• June 28, 1971
Hunter, William• ••• •Mar. 29, 1971
Hyde, Harry ........ Feb. 6, 1967

Friendship •••••• 210
Hawthorne •.•.. 647
Beverly Hills •••. 528
Southland •..•.. 618
Riviera ......... 780
Corona ....••.•• 324
South Pasadena .367
San Clemente ... 671
Magnolia .•..••. 242
Fairmount ..... 435
Palo Alto ••.••.. 346
Silver Gate ..... 296
Inyo ...•••••... 221
Golden State •••. 358

San Jose ........ 87
Hawthorne •••••. 86
Beverly Hills ..•. 84
Glendale ........ 91
Pacific Palisades •. 89
Pasadena ........ 81
South Pasadena .. 84
San Clemente •••. 87
Santa Barbara ••. 80
San Franc:isoo ••. 83
Palo Alto ........ 79
San Diego ....... 80
Independenc e ••.. 80
Los Angeles ...... 83

]ackson, Elwellt •.•. June 7, 1962
Jesse, Burrellt .•••••. Feb. 25, 1969
)ohnson, Wa!ter•t ••.• Feb.11, 1971
]ohnstone, Carlos .... Aug. 16, 1968

Henry Knox ..•. 662
Taft ........... 516
Menlo Park .•••. 651
Paul Revere ••.. 462

Los Angeles ••••. 84
Taft ........... . 88
Menlo Park .•.••. 81
San Francisco •... 83

Keller, Oscart .....•.. May 20, 1968
Kempf, William ••••.. Dec. 1, 1961
Kirk, Howard ••.•.•.. Apr. 2, 1969

leProgres
de l'Oceanie ••• 371
Doric .......... 216
George E. Tutt .. 722

Honolulu ....•... 83
San Francisco •..• 73
Los Gatos ....... 81

Lepetich, Steve ••••.. July 22, 1963
Lockwood, Joseph •... May 9, 1970

Maricopa ...•... 434
Hesperian ...... 264

Maricopa ........ 90
Sant.a Maria ..... 94

Lomita ......... 644
Sacramento • . . • . 40
South Gate ••••. 320
Brooklyn ........ 225
Menorah ....... 623
1'ehachapi ••.•.. 313
PaciJic ......... 136
Yucca Valley .•.. 802

Lomita ......... 78
Sacramento ...... 76
Los Angeles ...... 91
Oakland ......... 87
Los Angeles ...••• 87
Tehachapi ....... 81
San Francisco .•.. 84
Yucca Valley .•.•. 88

Carlson, George ..•••. Nov. 22, 1969
Carlson, Oscar ....... July 12, 1965
Carpenter, Frank• ••.. June 18, 1971
Charette, Louis• •..•. Sept. 24, 1970
Clayton, H. A.t ...... Dec. 29, 1969
Chatfield, Rey• ••••.• Dec. 22, 1970
Collin, Leonidas ...••. June 8, 1967
Combs, Jerome ....... Sept. 2, 1962
Cornwell, Walter• ..•. Mar.12, 1971
Cox, Robert ..••••.... Dec. 18, 1969
Craig, Robert• ••...•. Feb. 9, 1971
Creelman, Stanley• ••. Dec. 17, 1970
Creider, Roy .••..•.•. Oct. 25, 1963

ParnassusPresidio •.•.•. 388
Oak Grove ...•.. 215
Palm Springs .... 693
Crocker ........ 454
Santa Paula ....• 291
Glendale .....•.. 544
North Butte ..•. 230
Santa Cruz • • . . . 38
Hawthorne .•... 647
Santa Cruz • . . . . 38
Anchor ...•.•... 273
Eucalyptus ••... 243
Calaveras . . • . • . • 78
San Diequito ... 77 5

San Francisco .•.. 82
Alameda ••...•.•. 92
Palm Springs ..•.. 84
Daly City ....... 90
Santa Paula .. . ... 87
Glendale ......... 72
Gridley .......... 79
Santa Cruz ..••.. 88
Hawthorne ...... 90
Santa Cruz ...... 82
Bellfiower .•..... 97
Hayward ........ 74
San Andreas .. ... 86
Cardiff by the $ea 90

Davies, Fredrick ..••. Sept. 3, 1968
Dean, Alfred ........ Jtne 30, 1971
Dennis, Spiliotis ..••.. Sept. 13, 1968
Dierksen, William ..... Jan.10, 1966
Dixon, Ray• ••••..... Aug. 24, 1970
Dube, Joseph ......... Oct. 14, 1969
Du Bois, Andrew ••.. Apr. 30, 1958
Dukes, Davidt .•.••. Dec. lg, 1969
Dzaroogian, Marsob .. May 19, 1960

Crocker ........ 454
Mountain View •. 194
San Pasqual .... 45·2
San Clemente .•. 671
Citro! ....•.•. .. 656
Florence ..•..... 423
Morning Star • • . 68
Mariposa • .. . . .. 24
Vallejo .•..•.... 487

Daly City ....... 78
Mountain View .. 86
Pasadena ........ 78
San Clemente •• • . 87
Brea •.••...•.. • • 77
Huntington Park .82
Stockton ........ 88
Mariposa ........ 81
V:allejo ........ .. 74

McClary, Leslie ••.•.• Sept. 16, 1968
McClelland, Clarence* .Feb.15, 1971
McGraw, John ...••. JUDe 27, 1958
McNab, James .•...• Nov.19, 1968
Man;hall, Henry• •.... Dec. 16, 1970
Martinsen, Thomas •• Nov.19, 1957
Mendelson, Victor •.•. Jan. 12, 1966
Metcalfe, William .... Jan.. 23, 1969
Miller, William ...... Feb. 6, 1969

Edwards, Forest.t •... Nov. 17, 1969
Eggen, Herman• .•.•• Nov. 13, 1970

Hemet ........• 615
Angeles Mesa ... 625

Hemet ........... 80
Hawthorne .....• 75

Mitchell, William• •••• Mar. 26, 1971
Moller, Onward• ••.. Apr. 28, 1971

Campbell, Chariest ••. Jan.18, 1966

441

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Amity-

Slll.l Rock .•.. 3 70
Mariposa • • • • • .. 24
East Bay ....... 489

San F·rancisco .... 82
Lancaster .••••••• 92
Bakersfield ....... 81
San Jose ......... 76
Hollywood •..... 85
San Bernardino •• 80
Bellfiower .•.•.•. 80
Santa Cruz •.••.. 87

San Francisco ..•. 85
Mariposa ..•••.•. 89
Orinda .......... 82

443

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

442

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

Admitted
Name
Nelson, Chariest ..••• May 19, 1970
Newark, Gray ..•.•••. Oct. 9, 1964
Niebling, William ..... Aug. 27, 195S

No.
Lodge
San Pasqual ••.. 452
Las Palmas .••.. 366
Capital City ..•• 499

Age
Town
Pasadena ••..••.. 70
Fresno ..•...•... 92
Sacramento ...•.. 93

Ollson, Lester .•.••••. Aug. 24, 1959
Olson, Emilt •••.•• , •• Dec. 19, 196S
Otto, Gordon •.••.••. Mar.JO, 1970
Ouellette, Armand• •••• Oct. 24, 1970

Berkeley ........ 363
La Cumbre ..... 642
Oak Grove •••..• 215
Henry S. Orme •. 4SS

Berkeley .....•... 84
Santa Barbara ••. 79
Alameda ......... SS
Los Angeles ...... 84

Pawloski, Charles •..•. Feb. 16, 1965
Peirce, Chariest ••.••. May 2S l 96S
Pettit, Obe .•.•••.••. June 23: 1967
Phillips, Charles ••.... May 26, 1970
Pogue, Willia.mt .•.•.. Jan. 29, 1970
Pordon, John• ...•.. June23, 1971
Portello, Emanuelt ... Dec. 1, 1969
Posch, Paul .....•••.. Nov. lS, 196S
Potter, Jack • , ...•..•• Oct. 24, 1967
Prole, Donald• .•.••. May 1, I97I

Glassel Park .... 60S
Cahuenga ....... SI3
East Gate •••••.. 290
Lemon Grove ... 736
Liberty ••.•.•••• 299
Pacific ......... I36
Pyramid ........ 562
Hermann ...•••• I27
Needles ......... 326
Bay View •••..•. 40I

Los Angeles ...... 9I
Hollywood ..•... 84
Los Angeles ...... 70
Lemon Grove .... 87
Santa Clara ...... 88
San Francisco ...• 93
San Francisco •••. 83
San Francisco .... 93
Needles .......... 79
Oakland •.••••... 70

Regan, Merrill ..••.. Mar. IS, I970
Ridley, Alvin •..•...•. Feb. I, 1962
Roberts, Owent .•.... Dec.16, 1960
Roche, George ••••.... Jan. IS, 19S7
Roehm, Charles .•.•.. Aug. 5, 1966
Rogers, Ellery ..••... Sept. 14, l 96S
Rogers, Frank• ••.... Oct. 20, I970
Rosenzweig, Sam ..•.. Jan. 6, I 960

Natoma .....••. 64
East Bay ....... 4S9
Yount .......... I2
South Pasadena .367
Kit Carson ••..•• 734
Perris •..••••••• 411
Eucalyptus ..... 243
ArgonautArgonne ••..•. 46I

Folsom ...•.•..•. 70
Orinda •.•...... lOI
Napa ............ 8S
South Pasadena .. 96
Sacramento ...... 89
Perris ...•..•.•.. 80
Hayward ..••..•. 79

Samuel, Fordt ...••.. Jan. 6, I 969
Schell, Frank •...••.. Aug. I2, 196S
Schreiber, Frederick .. Aug. IS, 1969
Schultz, Walter!' ...... Oct. I4, I969
Scott, Ha.nyt ........ May S, l 96S
Scott, John .......... May 9, I 963
Scrivner, Chester •..•. Mar. I9, I96S
Smith, Ralph ....••... Feb. 2, 1970
Snobel, Herbert ...... Apr. 22, 1970
S00erer, Carroll• .... Mar. 31, I 97I
Sparhawk, Festus .... Dec. 24, 1969
Specht, Frank ........ May 9, 1960
Stit~, Joseph ........ Sept. I 7, I 963
Sullivan, James ...... Oct. 2, 1963
Swanson, George ..... Mar. lS, I962

Oak Grove .•••.. 2IS
Far West •.•.... 673
Van Nuys •.•..• 4SO
La Puente ...... 446
La Cumbre ..... 642
Culver City ..... 467
Van Nuys ...... 4SO
Chateau Thierry .S69
La Mesa ........ 407
John P. Jarman .669
Roseville ....... 222
Crocker ........ 4S4
Live Oak ....... 6I
Fremont ........ 497
Needles ......... 326

Alameda ...•...•. 84
San Francisco .•.. S7
Van Nuys •.••... S9
La Puente •...... 83
Santa Barbara .... 78
Culver City ...... 89
Van Nuys ......• 93
Castro Valley .••• 7S
La Mesa ......... S9
San Jose ......•.. 76
Roseville ...•.... 86
Daly City .....•.. 84
Oakland ......... 92
Oakland •...•••.. 83
Needles ...•....•. 90

Taylor, Cary ....•... Aug. 5, 1968
Taylor, Myront ...... Dec. 2S, I964
Tharp, William• .... Mar. S, I97I

Corinthian • .. .. • 9
South Park ..••. S63
San Bernardino .. 348

Marysville ....... 86
Hawthorne .•..•. 74
San Bernardino .. 92

Vickers, William• ..•. May 27, I97I
von Raven, Otto• .... June 25, I97I

Mon.eta •••....•. 40S
San FranciscoVictory ..•.•.. 360

Gardena ......... 83
San Francisco .... 80

Wakefield, Charles•t .. July 9, I970
Walker, William ...... May 10, 1967
Weinberg, Harryt •... Apr. 9, I962
Wenner, Henry •..... May lS, 1969
Wilkins, Leet ........ Dec. 3, 1969
Wilkinson, Charles .... June 4, I969
Wilson, Chariest •.... June 26, I969

Vista ........... 687
Menlo Park ..... 6Sl
Doric .......... 216
Alexandria •..... .S3 I
Azusa .......... 30S
Consuelo .... . .. 32S
Kerman ........ 420

Vista ............ 80
Menlo Park ...... 93
San Francisco ..•. 85
San Francisco .•.. 72
Azusa ..•.....•.• 92
Escondido ....... 87
Kerman .•....... 86

San Francisco .••• 7S

Admitted
Name
Wilson, Sidney ....... Jan. 6, 1962
Wilson, Wynn•t ....• July I7, I970
Wixson, Sanfordt .•.. Dec. S, 1969
Wold, Frederickt • , •.. Jan. 24, I966
Wood, Stanley• .•..•. June I, 197I
Woodall, Jack ....•.. Nov. 8, I967
Woodworth, Leslie ••.. Aug. 30, I969
Wurfer, Robert ••••.. Aug. 27, 1969
Wurslin, Theodore •••. May 24, I968
Young, E. Leont •••. Sept. IS, 1969

Thousand Oaks .. 478
Rock.ridge ...... 468
Benicia ......... 5
Mount Olive .... S06
Highland Park .. 382
Naval .......... 87
George E. Tutt .. 722
Elk Grove ...... I 73

~
Town
Alameda ......... S4
Berkeley ......... SI
Oakland ••.•.. •.. S4
Benicia .......... 7I
Los Angdes ...... 83
Los Angdes ...... 76
Vallejo .... ..... . SS
Los Gatos ....... 8S
Elk Grove ....... 94

Golden Rule .... 479

San Jose ........ 66

Lodge

No.

Oak Grove ...... 21S

MEN ADMITTED JULY 1, 1970 TO JUNE 30, 1971
AVERAGE AGE 81.76 YEARS
AdmiUe.d
Name
llailey, George ••.•... Sept. 16, 1970
Baxley, Charles ••.•.. Nov.11, I970
Brewer, Ralph ..•..•. Dec. I7, 1970
Burns, Neil .•••••..•. May 24, 197I
Carpenter, Frank •••.• June IS, I971
Charette, Louis ...•.. Sept. 24, I 970
Chatfield, Rey ••.••.. Dec. 22, 1970
Cornwell, Walter .... Mar. I2, 1971
Craig, Robert ........ Feb. 9, I97I
Creelman, Stanley .•.. Dec. I 7, 1970
Dean, Alfred •...••.. June 30, I97I
Dixon, Ray .......•.. Aug. 24, I970
Eggen, Herman ....•. Nov. I3, I970
Gaskill, Percy .....••. Mar. 2S, 1971
Grigg, Harry ......... May 6, I971
Harrison, Jay ........ Mar.11, 197I
Hirt, John ......•.... Dec. IS, 1970
Hunt, Roy .•.....•.. June 2S, I971
Hunter, William ..•... Mar. 29, 197I
Joslyn, Edmund .•••.. Feb. 22, 1971
Kugler, Herman ...... Oct. 6, I970
Marshall, Henry ..•.•. Dec.16, 1970
McClelland, Clarence .. Feb. IS, 197I
Mitchell, William .... Mar. 26, I97I
Molinari, Camillo .... Sept. 18, I970
Moller, Onward ....• ,Apr. 28, I971
Ouellette, Armand .•... Oct. 24, I 970
Pordon, John ......•. June 28, I971
Prole, Donald ........ May I, I971
Reid, Robert ........ Dec. I8, 1970
Rogers, Frank ........ Dec. 20, 1970
Soderer, Carroll ...... Mar.31,I97I
Speirs, Jack .....•... Aug. 11, I970
Tharp, William ....•. Mar. S, 1971
Vickers, William ...... May 27, I97I
von Raven, Otto •.... June 2S, 1971
Wakefield, Charles .... July 9, I970
Wilson, Wynn ...•..•. July 17, I970
Wood, Stanley ...•... June I, I971

No.
Lodge
Oriental ........ I44
Plymouth •••..•• S60
Security •.....•. S81
Golden State .... 3SS
Crocker .••..... 4S4
Santa Paula ..•.. 291
North Butte .•.. 230
Santa Cruz . . . . . . 38
Eucalyptus .•... 243
Calaveras .•....• 7S
Mountain View .. 194
Citrol .......... 6S6
Angeles Mesa ... 62S
Lancaster ....... 43 7
Anchor ......... 273
Beverly Hills .... S2S
San Clemente ... 67I
Silver Gate ..... 296
Inyo ...•....... 22I
Henry S. Orme . .4S8
Mariposa .. . .. . . 24
Menorah ....... 623
Sacramento . • . . . 40
Mariposa . . . . . . . 24
Golden GateSperanza . . . . . 30
East Bay ...... 489
Henry S. Orme .. 4S8
Pacific .......... I 36
Bay View ....... 40I
Fairmount ..... .43S
Eucalyptus ...... 243
John P. Jarman .669
Paul Revere .... 462
San Bernardino .. 34S
Moneta ......... 40S
San FmnciscoVictory ..•..•. 360
Vista ........... 6S7
Thousand Oaks .. 47S
Moulllt Olive .... S06

Age
Town
San Francisco .... 86
Oakland ......... 83
Bakersfield .•.••. 83
Los Angeles ..... 72
Daly City ....... 90
Santa Paula ..•... 86
Cflidley .•.. .... . 78
Santa Cruz ...... 82
Hayward ........ 74
San Andreas •.... 8S
Mountain View .. SS
Brea ......... ..• 76
Hawthorne •.•.. . 74
Lancaster •...•... 92
Bellflower ....... 80
Beverly Hills .... 84
San Clemente .... S6
San Diego ..•.•.. 80
Indq>endence .... SO
Los Angeles ..•... 77
Mariposa ..•.•... 80
Los Angdes ..... . 86
Sacramento ...... 76
Mariposa ........ S9
San Francisco .... 92
Orinda .......... 82
Los Angeles •.... 83
San Francisco .... 93
Oakland ......... 70
San Francisco .... 8I
Hayward ........ 7S
San Jose ........ 76
San Francisco ..•. 73
San Bernardino .. 92
Gardena ........ 83
San Francisco .•.. SO
Vista .•..... .. .. 79
Berkeley ......... 80
Los Angeles ...... S3

444

MEN DECE ASED JULY 1, 1970 TO JUNE 30,
AVER AGE AGE 84.44 YEARS
Deceased
Name
Archam bault, Clifior d .Dec. 31, 1970
Bailey, George .•..•• June S, 1971
Bates, Joseph •••..•• •. Oct. 25, 1970
Bentley , Les ••••••• •. Sept. 15, 1970
Carter, Herber t .....•. Oct. 12, 1970
Chamb erlain, Aretas •. Jan. 20, 1971
Covell, William ••.•.•• Oct. 6, 1970
Davis, Harry •••..• .. Mar. 1, 1971
Driver, Joseph .•.... Sept. IS, 1970
Gaberm an, Jacob ..•.. Mar. 8, 1971
Hendri cks, George •.•. Apr. 2, 1971
Howar d, Otto •.••..• . Aug. 26, 1970
Johans en, lngvald •••• Dec.30 , 1970
Joslyn, Edmun d .•...• Apr. 22, 1971
Kugler , Herma n ..•••. Apr.15 , 1971
Lamb, James ...•..• •. July S, 1970
Matter n, John .•..••. • Oct.31 , 1970
Mattso n, Melber t •.•. Mar. 29, 1971
Molina ri, Camillo •... Nov. 3, 1970
Nelson, George •..••. . July 31, 1970
Off, John ..•••• ....•. June 2, 1971
Reid, Robert •..••• .. Mar. 9, 1971
Rodgers, Harry ...••. Dec. 29, 1970
Ross, Frankl in •....•• June 30, 1971
Stewar t, Charles •..... July 13, 1970
Webbe r, Lewis ...••.. Feb. 6, 1971
Woodw ard, Horac.e ... Sept. 21, 1970

No.
Lodge
Oaklan d ••....• • 188
Orienta l ••...•• • 144
Washin gton • • • . • 20
Sanger ..•...• •• 316
I.a Mesa ....•.• • 407
Semper Virens •. . 552
Consuelo ••••... 325
Fratern ity ...•.. 399
Mount Moriah • . 44
Compo site ..••.. 639
All States .•••••• 593
Califor nia ...... 1
Dimon d •.••.. .. 603
Henry S. Orme . . 458
Maripo sa . . . . . • • 24
Vermo nt Square .515
Howar d .•..••• . 37
Concor d ..•..•• • 117
Golden GateSperan za •....• 30
Dimon d •••... .. 603
Southe rn
Califor nia .... 278
Fairmo unt ••.... 435
Los Altos ...•... 712
Berkeley •...... . 363
San Juan ....... 732
Atasca dero ....•• 493
Parnas sus.
Presidi o ....•. 388

1971

ToW1S

Ag11

Oaklan d •.. .. .... 80
San Francis co ..•. 87
Sacram ento •...•. 90
Sanger •...... •.. 79
La Mesa .....•. .. 81
Eureka •••••• •.•. 83
Escond ido .•.•.•. 92
San Jose •..... ... 80
San Francis co .... 85
Los Angeles .•..•. 70
Long Beach •••••• 89
San Francis co . . . . 85
Oaklan d ••.. • .... 90
Los Angeles ....•. 77
Maripo sa .....•. . 81
Inglew ood •....•. 81
Yreka ••.•••• •••• 90
Sacram ento .•.. . . 88
San Francis co •.•• 92
Oaklan d .••..• •.. 86

Paul Revere ..... 462

Admitt ed

Baker, Winifre d ....... Sept.1 , 1967
Barnes , Marie ..••.. .. Mar. 30, 1970
Barnet t, Marie ....•.. Mar. 21, 1963

No.
Lodge
Mizpah ....... .. 378
Delano ...•... •. 309
Jewel .....•• •.•• 374
Vermo nt Square .515
Argona utArgonn e ...•.. 461
Huntin gton
Beach ....••• . 380
John Marsha ll .•. 636
Acom ••.... .... 494

Brockh off, Sally .•.•... Oct. 31, 1969
Brokaw , Leona ..•.•. April 17, 1958
Brown , Jean .••••. .•. April 23, 1950
Brown , Nora• ••••.• .. Aug. 28, 1970
Browne , Rachel .••••. June 21, 1954
Burme ster, Cora .•.... Jan. 27, 1969
Burns, Marga ret•t •.•. May 24, 1971
Burrow s, Elizabe th .•• Sept. 17, 1969
Caffrey , Marie ••••.. . Mar. 20, 1963
Campbell, Alice •••••• . Oct. 25, 1963
Campbell, Blanclre ..•. Nov. 29, 1967
Campbell, Norva t •••. Jan. 8, 1966

San Francis co . . . . 89

Cheney, Hazel ••...•• . Aug.15 , 1951
Christi an, Nellie .•..•. Aug. 21, 1964
Clayto n, Annt ...•.• .. Dec. 29, 1969
Cobb, Theod ora• •••. Nov.11 , 1970
Collins, Rose .•••..• •. Oct. 30, 1969
Corbin , Elsa .••.•• .. May, 31 1 1961
Crawsh aw, Della ••••. April3 0, 1964
Cullen, Eleano r• •..••. Sept. S, 1970
Darnel l, Doroth ea .••. July 8, 1968
Davis, V. Mae .....• .. July 10, 1962
Davies, Selma •.•••• .. Jan.10 , 1969
Davis, Elizabe th •.... Nov. 6, 1969
De France , Eva .•••.. April 2, 1969
Delon, Nora •..••.• •.. Aug.18 , 1969

San Francis co . .•. 73

• Indicat es admiss ion during curren t year
t Indicat es couples

Name

Black, Evalita .•••.•• • July 17, 1959
Borden , Winnie •..••. May 20, 1970

Carroll , France s •.••.• Aug. 1, 1960
Caspar e, Flora •••••• . Aug. 11, 1967
Castle, Ollie .•.•••• •• Nov. 26, 1961
Cavanaugh,~ ••••• Jan. 5, 1971
Chamb erlain, Agnes ••. April3 0, 1970
Chamb ers, Onella •••.. Dec. 23, 1969

ANN UAL REPO RT
S
WOM EN RESI DENT S-AV ERAG E AGE 83.29 YEAR

Abbott , Sarah •...... . Mar.10 , 1960
Ames, Myra ....... .• May 8, 1954
Anders on, Hattie ..... May 30, 1957
Appel, Henrie tta ...... Aug. 12, 1960
Baker, D'Orel la• ...•. April 22, 1971

A.dm#t ed
Name
Baxley, Mary• t ••••.• Nov. 11, 1970
Benioff, Sarah ...••• .. June 25, 1970
Bentley , Mary ..•.••. Nov.19 , 1964
Bergstr om, Blanch e ••. Mar. 5, 1970
Beumer, Maria ••••.•• . Feb.13 , 1969
Biggar, Effie .•.••• .•. April 13, 1962
Biggar t, Ada •.••.• •.. Mar. 29, 1968

Los Angeles •..•. . 67
San Francis co .... 81
Los Altos .•.... .. 82
Berkele y . . . . . . .. 97
Fair Oaks . . ...... 89
Atasca dero ••..... 89

WITH DRA WN
Speirs, Jack ....... ... May 2, 1971

445

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIF ORNIA

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

Town

Age

Los Angeles • •• • . . 85
Delano •••••• .... 84
San Francisco .... 97
Inglew ood ... .. .. 85
San Francis co .••. 65
Huntin gton Beach 84
Beverly Hills .•.•. 73
Oaklan d ••..•. ... 82

De Ruehle , Irma ....•. June 15, 1966
Diefen bach, Bertha ••.. Feb. 20, 1962
Dieves, Jennie • .•..•• Nov. 14, 1970
Drysda le, Charlo tte ••. July S, 1962
Dukes, Maxie t ....•.. Dec.18 , 1969
Dunn, Eleano r ••..... . Feb. 9, 1962
Eason, Eunice .••.•.• • Dec.30 , 1967
Eastma n, Leona .•.••• Mar. 7, 1963
Eberha rd, Edith •...•. June 8, 1970
Edward s, Almat ••.•.• Nov.17 , 1969
Eldridg e, Cather ine• .. July 29, 1970
Elliott, Maud ...••.• • June 15, 1948

No.
Lodge
Plymou th .•.••.. 560
Fidelity .•••.• •.. 120
Sanger ..•••• ..•. 316
West Los Angeles 373
Alained a •••••• •. 167
Mission .••••. .•. 169
Alta VistaMount Vemon . 464
King David's .••. 209
South
San Francisco .212
Mill Valley •••••. 356
Humbo ldt • • • . • • 79
Santa Rosa • • . • . . 57
Francis K.
Shattu ck ••••. 571
Las Palmas •••.•. 366
Petalum a ••.•... 180
Golden State .••• 358
Santa Lucia •...• 302
Abell •••..•• ••.• 146
Lebano n •.••••. .495
King Solomo n's
Seapor t •••••.. 260
Pamass usPresidi o ••••.. 388
Alamed a •••.••. • 167
Table Mount ain .124
S. W. Hacket t •.. 574
Marin ••..••• •.• 191
Sempe r Virens • . 552
Francis Drake .•. 376
Washin gton .••.. 20
Hawaiian ••••.•• 21
Glendale ••••.. .. 544
Visalia •..••• ••.. 128
The Gabila n ••.•. 803
Clovis ...•... .•. 417
Willow Glen •... 676
Kilauea •.••... •. 330
Downe y ..••.. .. 220
Vermo nt Square .515
Monet a •.•..•• •. 405
Fratern ity •.••.. 399
Florence •.••.. .. 423
La Parfait e
Union . • ••••.• 17
Fellowship .•..•. 480
Solano •••... ..•. 229
Alcatraz •.••.•• • 244
San Frands coVictory •.••... 360
Maripo sa • . . . • . . 24
Henry S. Orme •. 458
Illinois town . . • . . 51
Solano ....••. ••. 229
Rockri dge ..•.• .468
Hemet ......• ... 615
Eucaly ptus .•.... 243
Beverly Hills •••. 528

To'Wn

Age

Oaklan d •.•... ... 78
San Francis co .•.. 70
Sanger ...•... ..•. 68
Loa Angeles ..•.•. 81
Fremo nt .....• ... 88
San Francis co .... 80
San Francis co .... 88
San Luis Obispo .. 90
Daly City .•••... 78
Mill Valley •...•.. 89
Eureka .•..•.. ••. 90
Santa Rosa .....• 91
El Cerrito •••••.. 89
Fresno •••••• •..• 82
Petalum a •••••• •. 86
Los Angeles ••••• 72
King City ••.••.. 92
Ukiah •••••• .•••. 92
San Francis co ••.. 84
San Francisco .•.• 90
San Francisco .••. 76
Fremo nt •.•..•• •. 86
Paradis e •••••• ... 80
San Diego •.•.•.. 86
San Rafael •...••• 77
Eureka •.••.• •... 89
South San
Francis co ..••.• 79
Sacram ento .••.•. 85
Honolu lu .....•. . 86
Glenda le •.•••• .•. 78
Visalia ••..•. ...•. 9 2
Salinas ••••••• ••• 79
Clovis .••.•• ..... 87
San Jose ....... .. 81
Hilo ••.•.• .•.•... 83
Downe y .•..... •. 78
Inglew ood .....•. 88
Garden a •...•.• •. 81
San Jose .••.•.• •. 84
Huntin gton Park . 78
San Francis co ...• 70
Oaklan d ...••.• •. 82
Vallejo •••..• .... 83
Oaklan d •••••• •.. 84
San Francisco ••• . 8'1
Maripo sa ..•.... . 81
Los Angeles •..... 78
Colfax •.••... •••. 89
Vallejo ••..... .•. 82
Oaklan d .•.••. ..• 78
Hemet ••....• •..• 79
Haywa rd ....... • 85
Beverly Hills .•... 93

446
Name

Admitted

Ely, Eva ..•.•....... Aug. 24, 1955
Estes, Lucy •.•.••••.. Dec. 4, 1968
Ewald, Belle •••.••••. May 18, 1970
Fallabay, Martha ..•.. July 31, 1968
Fanning, Jennie ••..•. Nov. 6, 1957
Felling Idabel .•....••. Feb. 3, 1959
Finkeldey, Bertha• .... Aug. 21, 1970
Fischer, Emily• •.••••. Oct. 2, 1970
F1emming Thora ...... Jan. 3, 1958
Fox, Helenet ••..•.•.. Nov. 7, 1969
Francis, Nora• •.•••••• Feb. 23, 1971
Fraze, Constance .•... April 14, 1969
Gilmore, Emma .•..•.. Feb. 26, 1964
Gouveia, Nannae •••... Jan. 9, 1969
Green, Nina ••••.•.... May 10, 1967
Hambleton, Ciara• ••.. July 24, 1970
Hambly, Nona• ....••. July 22, 1970
Hansen, Grace .•.•.•.. Jan.11, 1960
Harding, Lulu ••...•. June 24, 1970
Harper, Ethel ••..•.•. July 8, 1969
Hawkins, Evelyn ••••. April 4, 1961
Heim, Claire• ...•••.. April 15, 1971
Heintz, Mary ...••... May 20, 1966
Hennings, Mabel
(Hascall)t .•••..•.. Oct. 3, 1960
Hink, Loula ...•..•... July 26, 1965
Hoopes, Ebba
(TranmaI)t • , ..•.•. May 11, 1968
Hopper, Lura •••••.••. Feb. 22, 1969
Houck, Alice •....•... July 3, 1968
Howaro, Nina •.••.•.. June 13, 1966
Hubbard, Eleanor ..•• Sept.16, 1968
Hyland, Erle •••.•.... Dec. 3, 1956
Hunt, Arlie•t •••••... June 28, 1971
Ingram, Minnie• •••.. Nov.13, 1970
Ireland, Lillian •••..• Aug.10, 1961
Jackson, Gladys
(Garrison)t ........ Feb. 1, 1964
Jancovich, Ida ••••••.. Feb.12,1970
J efts, Marie
(Reasoner) •••••... July 21, 1948
Jesse, Gladys
(Moulthrop)t •...•. Oct. 1, 1964
Johnson, Alfriida•t •.. Feb.11, 1971
Johnson, Ruth ....... June 2, 1970
Jones, Carlotta• •••••. June 3, 1971
Jones, Emma ••••••.. Nov. 9, 1966
Kapantais, Edith .•••.. Feb. 14, 1955
Keller, Esthert ••.•••. May 21, 1968
Kermode, Marguerite .. May 29, 1969
Kessel Eleanor• ...••. June 7, 1971
Lage, Margaret •.••••. Sept. 3, 1969
Laidlaw, Grace ..•.... Dec.16, 1966
Lane, Edith ••••••••.. Dec.16, 1969
Lange, Lillie ..••.... Nov.14, 1968
Larsen, Myrtle ••.••.. Sept. 29, 1967
Larter, Gertrude •••••. Sept. 5, 1949
Locke, Teresa ••••••.. Mar. 9, 1962

Lodge

447

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Town

Age

Buckeye ••••.•.• 195
Rialto •.•••••••. 582
Fairmount •.•••. 435
El Segundo ...••• 507
Oakland ••••.••• 188
Mountain View •. 194
Oakland •...•••• 188
Berkeley ..•••••• 363
Mendocino ••.••. 179
Mountain View •• 194
Educator •.••.•. 554
Hemet .•••..••.. 615
Three Pillan! ••.• 613
West Gate •••••• 335
Soquel •••••••.• 746
Occidental • • • • • • 22
Park ••.••..•••. 449
Riverbank •••••• 459
Stockton •••••••• 498 ·
Francis K.
Shattuck ••.••• 571
Verba Buena •••• 403
Chateau Thierry .569
North Star • • . • • • 91

Winters .•••••.... 88
Rialto ....•.••••. 91
San Francisco •••. 89
El Segundo •••••• 77
Oakland .•.•.•.•. 91
Mountain View .•. 90
Oakland ••••••••. 88
Berkeley ......... 77
Mendocino .•.•••. 89
Mountain View ••• 76
San Francisco •••. 90
Hemet ........... 80
Sacramento •••••• 79
Los Angeles •••••. 85
Soquel •.••••••••• 76
San Francisco •••. 83
San Francisco .••. 86
Riverbank ••••••. 84
Stockton ••••••••• 81

Charity ••..••••. 362
Crockett ..••••.• 139

Campbell ••..•.•. 83
San Francisco •••• 79

Live Oak •••••••• 61
Clayton Valley •• 756
Progresmve •••.•• 578
Amity-Seal Rock 370
Cahuenga ...•••. 513
Sun Garden •.... 530
Silver Gate •••••• 296
John Marshall ••• 636
Parnassus- ·
Presidio ••••.. 388

Oakland •.••.•••. 81
Concord •••...•.. 82
Los Angeles •••••. 83
San Francisco •••. 88
Hollywood ••••.•• 77
Fresno ••••••••••. 84
San Diego ..•••••. 82
Beverly Hills ••••. 86

Mountain View •• 194
Balder ••••••••.. 393

Mountain View •.. 75
San Francisco •... 84

Normal Heights .632

San Diego ..••••. 89

Mission •••••..•. 169
Menlo Park •.•.. 651
Mount Olive •..• 506
Standard •••••. .440
Fruitvale ••••.•• 336
Ionic ..••••••••• 520
le Progres de
L'Oceanie ••••. 371
Apollo .•..••••. 396
Lebanon •••••••. 495
Provident •••••. 609
Carquinez ••.••• 337
Mill Valley •.•••. 356
Amity-Seal Rock 370
Berkeley .••••.•. 363
Moneta •••••.••. 405
Mill Valley •••••• 356

San Francisco •••. 82
Menlo Park ••••.• 76
Los Angeles •••••• 83
Oakland •.••.••.. 90
Oakland •.••••.•• 81
Los Angeles •.•..• 87

EI Cerrito •••••••• 70
Oakland ......... 87
Castro Valley •••• 82
Fort Jones .•..••. 80

SiMl Francisco ••.. 75

Honolulu •••••••• 75
Alameda ••..••••. 81
San Francisco .••• 78
Sacramento •..... 65
Crockett .•••••••• 91
Mill Valley .••••.. 73
San Francisco •••. 90
Berkeley •••.••••• 86
Gardena ••..••••. 83
Mill Valley •.••.• 105

Name

Admitted

Look, C. Maude .•••• Mar.16, 1959
Luscombe, Laura •••• June 29, 1958
J4acDonald, Cecelia ••• Oct. 4, 1968
'Mackenzie, Marie •••. Feb. 14, 1968
;Marshall, Lucy ••. , •• June 29, 1961
Matthews, Annie ••••. Mar. 9, 1956
J(ayfi.eld, Mary •••••• Sept. 22, 1925
l4cCue, Mabel •••••.. Dec. 29, 1967
McDonald, Maude •••• July 25, 1967
Miller, Bessie •••••.••. July 29, 1966
Miller, Catherine ••••. April 20, 1957
Miller, Florence •••••. April 14, 1970
Miller, Mildred ...... Dec. 1, 1964
Muller, Elisabeth• •••• Nov. 20, 1970
Munn, Margaret •••••. Mar. 4, 1965
Nelson, Christina ..... July 8, 1966
Nelson, Hope*t •••••• April 2, 1971
Nipps, Gertrude ••• , •• April 1, 1969
Nussbaum, Ida •••••••. Feb. 23, 1960
O'Keefe, Frieda •••••• May, 19, 1970
Olsen, Ruth• ••••••••. Dec. 29, 1970
Olson, Veroniat •••••. Dec.19, 1968
Orr, Cora •••••••••••. Mar.16, 1970
Parker, Opal •••••••••. July 17, 1969
Peirce, Alicet ••••••••• May 28, 1968
Pellissier, Georgetta ••.. Oct. 20, 1965
Pitts, Adelaide •••••••. Feb. 2, 1954
Pogue, Lenat ••.•••••. Jan. 29, 1970
Portello, Berthat ••••• Dec. 1, 1969
Prestidge, Cora ••••••. June 12, 1967
Rice, Phebe •••••••••• Aug. 26, 1967
Roberts, V. Myrlet ... Dec.16, 1960
Robertson, Margaret •• April 17, 1963
Robinson, Erma
(Nicolaus) ......... Jan. 27, 1959
Rogers, Isabel •••••••. May 6, 1961
Ross, Jean ••••.••••• April 16, 1958
Russell, Sybil ........ Sept. 17, 1960
Sampson, Bertha• ••••• July 17, 1970
Samuel, Clairet ••••••• Jan. 6, 1969
Sargent, Inez ••••••••• July 19, 1965
Schiller, Marie ••••••• Aug.19, 1969
Schlueter, Louise ..... July 18, 1963
Schmidt, Marie ...... May 19, 1967
Schoenfeld, Violet •••• Sept. 26, 1968
Schrock, Edith •••••• April.16, 1968
Schultz, Lilliet ........ Oct. 8, 1969
Scovel, Marie ......... July 4, 1958
Scott, Will-Tomt ..... May 8, 1968
Seymour, Laura ...... Feb. 1, 1936
Shonwald, Ethel •••••• June 28, 1968
Singler, M. Louise •••• Sept.17 1 1963
Skeen, Emma •••••••• April 28, 1965
Smith, Lillian, ........ Oct.16.1961
Snowden, Jean ••••••• Dec. 29, 1958
Steigelman, Joan ..... Mar.19, 1960
Stevenson, Teresa ..... Feb. 28, 1963
Stewart, Edna May ... Dec. 25, 1961
Stover, Ruby ......... July 8, 1965
Straight, Johanna ..... Dec.141 1963

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Hawaiian • • . • • • • 21
Richmond ••••.• 3 75
Morgan Hill .... 463
Hollenbeck •••••• 319
Occidental • • • • • • 22
Sotoyome ....... 123
Alpha .......... 431
Blue Lakes ...... 714
Temple . ........ 14
Highland Park ••• 382
Sunset .......... 352
Oakdale •••••••• 275
Alisa! ••••••••••• 321
Occidental • • • • • • 22
San Jose . ....... 10
Caledonia •••••• 486
San Pasqual •.••• 452
Military Service .570
Alcatraz ........ 244
Far West ....... 673
Golden West •••• 455
La Cumbre •••••• 642
Mendocino ...... 179
Hills Ferry ...... 236
Cahuenga ••••••• 513
Mariposa .. .. .. • 24
Mendocino •••••• 179
Liberty ......... 299
Pyramid ........ 562
Visalia .......... 128
Lorenzo •••••••• 709
Yount .......... 12
Hesperian ....... 264

Honolulu •••••••• 89
San Francisco •••• 93
Morgan Hill ...... 78
Los Angeles •.•••• 76
San Francisco •••. 82
Healdsburg •.••• 106
Richmond ....... 98
San Bruno ••••••. 84
Sonoma •••.••••• 85
Los Angeles ...... 88
Los Angeles •••••. 88
Oakdale ......... 79
Pleasanton ....... 81
San Francisco •••• 77
San Jose ......... 79
Bakersfield ...... 88
Pasadena ••••..•• 65
San Francisco •••• 90
Oakland ••••••••• 92
San Francisco •••• 78
San Francisco •••• 77
Santa Barbara •••• 79
Mendocino ••••••• 85
Newman ••••••••• 82
Hollywood ....... 84
Mariposa ........ 75
Mendocino ••••••• 91
Santa Clara •••••• 80
San Francisco •••• 77
Visalia ••••••••••• 77
San Lorenzo ...... 89
Napa •••••••••••• 87
Santa Maria ••••• 89

Unity .......... 368
BW>y Knolls •••• 699
Pacific •••••••••• 136
Utopia ......... 537
South Pasadena .. 367
Oak Grove ...... 215
Berkeley •••••••• 363
Hermann ••••••• 127
Eden ........... 113
Golden State •••• 358
King David's .... 209
Santa Maria ..... 580
La Puente ••••••• 446
Santa Ana •••••• 241
La Cumbre ...... 642
Honolulu ••••••• 409
ParnassusPresidio ••••••• 388
Benicia ••••••••• 5
Antioch ......... 175
EI Cajon Valley •• 576
Ferndale •••••••• 193
Bellflower ....... 523
Lodge Maui ••••• 472
East Gate ....... 290
Durant ••••••••• 268
Fruitvale • , ••••• 336

Glendale ......... 78
Long Beach ...... 84
San Francisco •••• 85
Los Angeles ...... 90
South Pasadena .. 79
Alameda ••••••••• 81
Berkeley ......... 83
San Francisco •••. 84
San Leandro ..... 95
Los Angeles ...... 86
San Luis Obispo •• 81
Ramona ••••••••• 93
La Puente ....... 74
Santa Ana ....... 75
Santa Barbara ••• 73
Honolulu ........ 93
San Francisco .... 69

Benicia .......... 87
Antioch ......... 77
EI Cajon ......... 93
Ferndale ......... 97
Bellflower ....... 85
Kahului ••••••••. 88
Los Angeles ...... 82
Berkeley ......... 79
Oakland ••••••••• 78

448

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Stromberg, Laura •••• Mar: 5, 1959
Stubbs, Bertha• ..•.•• Feb.17, 1971
Swain, Sarah ••••••..•• Feb 1, 1951
Sweet, Jennie ......... May 6, 1968
Swinney, Helen ••..... Mar 14, 1968
Taforo,May (Pace) .... Oct31,19S·7
Taylor, Alma
(Sanford)t ......... Jan. 5, 1964
Tillman, Ruby ...•..•. Aug. 2, 1963
Tredway, Myrtle •••.• Aug. 27, 1968
Trick, Ruth ••.•••.••. May 13, 1969
Van Watermeulen,
Doris• ............. Feb. 2, 1971
Wakefield, Hulda•t ..• July 9, 1970
Wallace, Helen ••.•.•• Nov. 22, 1968
Wa.nl, Sallielou• •..••. Mar. 3, 1971
Weinberg, Ada
(Bartrip)t ......... Feb. 7, 1963
Wheat, Daisy ••••.... Dec. 29, 1959
White, Harriette .•.••. Nov. 19, 1962
Wilhelm, Jennie ••..•. Dec.30, 1965
Wilkins, Leonat ...... Dec. 3, 1969
Will, Della ••••••••••. Oct. 13, 1966
Willi, Elsie ..••..•••.. Dec.26,1969
Williams, Winnie ••.. Sept. 22, 1961
Wilson, Blanche•t .••. Feb. 21, 1971
Wilson, Ella .•...••••. June 3, 1967
Wilson, Minniet ••...• June 26, 1969
Wirth, B. Eileen ...... Jan. 29, 1965
Wixson, Helent •••••.. Dec. 8, 1969
Wold, Mattie
(Morefild)t ........ April S 1965
Wood, Clara •....••.. Aug. 24, 1965
Wood, Cora .......... Jan. 27, 1967
Woodward, Myrtle ...• Aug. 27, 1968

Lodge
No.
Excelsior ••••••• 166
La Cumbre ••.••. 642
Apollo .......... 396
San Gabriel ••••• 546
Morning Star • • • . 68
Santa Cruz ...... 38

Tovm
Age
San Francisco •.•. 86
Santa Barbara •••. 86
Alameda •••••••.. 92
San Gabriel ...... 76
Stockton ......... 86
Santa Cruz ...... 79

University •.•••. 394
Mount Moriah • • 44
Stanislaus ....... 206
Sunset •••.••.••. 352

Torrance ••••••.•. 80
San Francisco .... 87
Modesto ......... 84
Los Angeles •.•••• 79

Naval •.••••.••• 87
Vista ........... 687
MWion ......... 169
Union •••..••••• 58

Vallejo .......... 72
Vista •••••••••••• 76
San Francisco •••• 79
Sacramento •.••.• 77

Redondo ...••••. 328
Meridian ....... 667
Blackmer •.•.••. 442
Highland Park ••. 382
Azusa .......... 305
Sun Garden ..... 530
Union .......... 58
Sequoia ......... 349
Thousand Oaks •. 478
Belvedere-Sunrise 522
Kerman •.•...•. 420
Justice ......... 549
Rockridge .•..... 468

Redondo Beach .•. 82
Glendale ......... 93
San Diego •••.••. 99
llos Angeles ...... 87
Azusa ........... 89
Fresno .......... 83
Sacramento •••••. 83
Oakland •.•.•.•.. 91
Berkeley ......... 83
Monterey Park •.. 86
Kerman •••••••.. 82
San Francisco •... 86
Oakland •••.••••• 82
Riverside ........ 70
San Francisco .... 86
Richmond •..•••• 91

Wynman, Eva ....... Sept. 2, 1959
Wright, Alice •••••••.. Nov. 13, 1964

Riverside ....... 635
Balder .......... 393
McKinley ••••... 347
ParnassusPresidio ••..•. 388
Apollo .......... 396
Tehama ........ 3

San Francisco .••. 82
Alameda ......... 94
Sacramento ...... 88

Young, Agnest ••••••• Sept.13, 1969

Golden Rule •.... 479

San Jose ......... 71

Zimmerman, Edith .... Oct. 28, 1963

Naval •••••••••. 87

Vallejo .......... 91

WOMEN ADMITTED JULY 1, 1970 TO JUNE 30, 1971
AVERAGE AGE 80.17 YEARS
Name
Admitted
Baker, D'Orella ...... Apr. 22, 1971
Baxley, Mary ........ Nov. 11, 1970
Brown, Nora ........ Aug. 28, 1970
Burns, Margaret •••••. May 24, 1971
Cavanaugh, Alice ••••. Jan. S, 1971
Cobb, Theodora •••••. Nov. 11, 1970
Cullen, Eleanor •••••• Sept. S, 1970
Dieves, Jennie ••••••. Nov. 14, 1970
Eldridge, Catherine ... July 29, 1970

Lodge
Argonaut-

No.

Argonne ...... 461
Plymouth ••••••• 560
Francis K.
Shattuck •••••. 571
Golden State •••• 358
Marin •••••••.•• 191
Visalia ......... 128
Kilauea ......... 330
Alcatraz .••••••• 244
Eucalyptus ••••• 243

To'Wn

Age

San Francisco •••• 65
Oakland ••••••••• 77
El Cerrito ....... 88
Los Angeles ••••• 72
San Rafael ...... 77
Visalia .......... 91
Hilo ............ 82
Oakland ••••••••• 84
Hayward •••••••• 84

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

449

Lodge
No.
Oakland ........ 188
Berkeley •••.... 363
Educator ......• 554
Occidental . • . . . . 22
Park •..•...••.. 449
Chateau Thierry . 569
Silver Gate •..•. 296
Inyo .......•... 221
John Marshall .. 636
Menlo Park .... 651
Standard •..•... 440
Lebanon ...•..•. 495
Occidental . . . . . . 22
San Pasqual •... 452
Golden West ... .455
South Pasadena .367
La Cumbre .•... 642

To'llln
Age
Oakland •......•. 87
Berkeley ........ 76
San Francisco .... 90
San Francisco .... 82
San Francisco .•. 86
Castro Valley ...• 82
San Diego ....... 81
Independence •... 89
Beverly Hills .... 86
Menlo Park •..... 75
Oakland ......... 89
San Francisco .... 78
San Francisco .... 76
Pasadena ........ 65
San Francisco .... 76
South Pasadena .. 78
Santa Ba~bara •.. 85

Naval ........... 87
Vista ........... 687
Union .......... 58
Thousand Oaks •. 478

Vallejo .......... 71
Vista ............ 75
Sacramento ••.... 76
Berkeley ......... 82

Name
Admitted
Finkeldey, Bertha .•.. Aug. 21, 1970
F'i!cher, Emily •...... Oct. 2, 1970
Francis, Nora ........ Feb. 23, 1971
Hambleton, Clara .... July 24, 1970
Hambly, Nona May •. July 22, 1970
Heim, Claire ....•.... Apr. lS, 1971
Hunt, Arlie •....••.•. June 28, 1971
Hunter, Emma ...... Mar. 29, 1971
Ingram, Minnie ..••.. Nov.13, 1970
Johnson, Alfriida ..... Feb. 11, 1971
Jones, Carlotta ...... June 3, 1971
K.es.sel, Eleanor ...... June 7, 1971
Muller, Elisabeth ..... Nov. 20, 1970
Nelson, Hope ......... Apr. 2, 1971
Olsen, Ruth ••...•... Dec. 29, 1970
Sampson, Bertha ..... July 17, 1970
Stubbs, Bertha ....... Feb.17, 1971
Van Watermeulen,
Doris .............. Feb. 2, 1971
Wakefield, Hulda •..•. July 9, 1970
Ward, Sallielou ...... Mar. 3, 1971
Wilson, Blanche ..••.. Feb. 21, 1971

WOMEN DECEASED JULY 1, 1970 TO JUNE 3'0, 1971
AVERAGE AGE 87 YEARS
Name
Deceased
Allen, Helena •.•.•... Sept. 18, 1970
Ball, Jane ............ Oct. 6, 1970
Bergen, Anna ••...... Jan. 26, 1971
Bloy, Edith .......... Oct.12, 1970
De Witt, Edith ...... Aug. 7, 1970
Donaldson, J. Elaine .Nov. 27, 1970
I>unbar, Elizabeth .... Oct.11, 1970
Farrar, Gertrude ...•.. Oct.11, 1970
Forgie, Helene ........ Oct. 1, 1970
Foster, Mary •....•.•. Aug. 29, 1970
Gerhart, Charlotte .•.. Dec. 2, 1970
Hedburg, Huldah •... Sept. 3, 1970
Hinze, Henrietta ..... June 12, 1971
Hunter, Emma .•.... May 31, 1971
Kosht, Jennie ........ Apr. 1, 1971
Kreamer, Louise ••...• Feb. 23, 1971
Leptien, Anne ........ Jan.30, 1971
Mackley, Benny ...... Apr. S, 1971
Marsan, Emily ••••••• Feb.15, 1971
Peterson, Lillie ..•••. Mar. 26, 1971
Ries, Gladys .•..•.... Aug. 18, 1970
Roehm, Olive •.••.••. Aug. 21, 1970
Ryder, Bertha ....... Sept. 8, 1970
Velsir, Vera .•.•..•.. June 13, 1971

Lodge
No.
Mission ..•.•.•. 169
Richmond ....•. 375
San FranciscoVictory •...... 360
Dunsmuir .•..... 297
Kit Carson ...... 734
Marin .•...•.... 191
West Adams .... 565
Mill Valley ...•. 356
Morning Star •••. 68
Fruitvale ......• 336
Occidental •.•... 22
Fresno ......... 247
Morning Star . . . 68
Inyo •..••.•.••• 221
El Sereno ...... 588
Redondo .••.... 328
Yucca Valley .... 802
Tehama ........ 3
Foothill ..••.... 564
Golden West .•.. 455
Mount Olive .•.. 506
Kit Carson ••.•.. 734
West Lake •••••• 392
Los Gatos ..•.•. 292

Town
Age
San Francisco ••.. 90
San Francisco •... 81
San Francisco .•.. 95
Dunsmuir ........ 98
Sacramento •••... 90
San Rafael ....... 90
Los Angeles ..•... 89
Mill Valley ••••.• 88
Stockton •..•.••. 86
Oakland ......... 83
San Francisco .... 78
Fre:mo .•••..•.... 91
Stockton •..•.... 86
Independence .•.. 90
Los Angeles • ...•• 91
Redondo Beach .. 94
Yucca Valley ••.. 78
Sacramento •..... 88
Oakland ......... 85
San Francisco .•.. 85
Los Angeles ...... 79
Sacramento ••••.. 80
Los Angeles ...... 86
Los Gatos ....... 87

WITHDRAWN
Angwin, Hilda .••..... July 8, 1970

Berkeley ....... 363

Berkeley •...•.•.. 83

450

PROCE EDING S OF THE

CHILD REN AT COVIN A HOME
June 30, 1.971
Boys- 38

Ar•
No.
ToUtn
Lodge
AdmiUed
Name
.... 15
Beach
Laguna
672
•••
Beach
Laguna
1968
16,
Apr.
.....
James
Ashforth,
Altadena .••••••• • 12
Altadena .••••••. 678
Black, Floyd ........ May 24, 1970
Marino ...... 11
San
685
•••..
Marino
San
1965
24,
Oct.
••••..
Scott
,
Boehmer
....... 6
Dimas
San
428
......
Dimas
San
1971
18,
Mar.
......
Alan•
Cheney,
Dimas ....... 8
San
428
......
Dimas
San
1971
18,
Mar.
....
Marvin•
Cheney,
Los Banos ....... 17
Los Banos •.•.•. 312
Coates, Harold •..••.. Jan. 30, 1969
rne ••••.•• 14
Hawtho
527
..•.•••
t
Covenan
1965
16,
May
........
Figearo, Bert
. . •••••.. 18
Glendale
667
••.••••
Meridian
1966
13,
Nov.
.......
Foott, Tim••
•••••••• 15
a
Alhambr
608
........
Granada
1970
7,
Aug.
........
Haines, Jon•
........ 14
a
Alhambr
608
........
Granada
1971
17,
Mar.
.......
Haines, Tim•
•••••• 12
Angelea
Los
605
••..
Park
Glassell
1970
6,
Aug.
.•••••
Hawley, Peter•
12
........
s
VanNuy
450
••.•••.
Nuys
Van
1967
11,
Sept.
Hennessey, J. D .••..
10
........
Nuys
Van
450
•••••••
Nuys
Van
1967
11,
Sept.
Hennes,,ey, Joe .....
. 14
........
Yucaipa
726
........
Yucaipa
1971
10,
Apr.
•.••
Holley, Douglas•
Covina •••••••• •• 10
Covina ........ . 334
House, David•• ••.•.. Apr. 13, 1969
od ....... 12
Inglewo
766
••.
Kew
E.
James
1970
8,
Sept.
....
Hudgins, Dennis•
od ••••.•• 14
Inglewo
766
•••
Kew
E.
James
1970
8,
Sepl
..
•
Hudgins, Richard
e ........ 15
Riversid
259
••..•..
n
Evergree
1970
20,
June
Hunter, Craig ••.••••
.•.•.• 15
urg
Healdsb
123
...••..
e
Sotoyom
1967
23,
June
Johnson, Bob .......
••• 15
.•••••••
Colton
306
..
........
Ashlar
1970
18,
Jan.
Knauer, Doug .......
... 17
........
Colton
306
••
•••.••••
Ashlar
1970
18,
Jan.
Knauer, Larry ......
13
•••
.•••••••
Colton
306
••
••••••••
Ashlar
1970
18,
Knauer, Paul •.•••••• Jan.
. 7
........
Gate
So.
785
••....
nt
Paramou
1969
11,
Ocl
Long, James ........
So. Gate •••••••• • 15
Paramou nt ••..•. 785
Long, Tom ........ .. Oct. 11, 1969
Hawtho rne ••••••• 10
Sunnyside .•.•••. 577
Meyers, Dean ........ Apr. 11, 1966
Hawtho rne .•••••• 13
Sunnyside •.•.... 577
Meyers, Gary ........ Apr. 11, 1966
Altadena ........ . 13
Altadena ...••.•. 678
Miller, Richard ...... Apr. 6, 1968
Chicago, Ill. . ..... 16
Crystal Honor •. 1025
Pedretti, Andy•• ••••. Ocl 1, 1966
Chicago, Ill. • .•••• 13
Crystal Honor •• 1025
Pedretti, Tim•• •••.•• Oct. 1, 1966
New York, N.Y••• 16
Warwick ••..•••• 544
Petzold, Alan•• ...... June 18, 1968
Duarte ........ .. 7
Sojourner .....•• 607
Price, Evan ........ . June 17, 1969
San Diego ........ 11
Blackmer ••.•••. 442
Price, Meredith ...... Apr. 2, 1966
Duarte ........ .. 8
Sojourner •••••.. 607
Price, Robert ........ June 17, 1969
San Diego ........ 10
Blackmer •••••.. 442
Price, Wallace ...... Aug. 14, 1966
Fresno ........ ... 9
Fresno ••....•• •• 247
Richardson, Jeff ••••• Dec. 28, 1970
Fresno ........ ... 5
Fresno ••...••• •• 247
Richardson, Mike .... Dec. 28, 1970
Montebello ...... 14
Montebello ...... 451
Watts, Harry• •••••••. Oct. 10, 1970
Lomita ........ .. 11
Lomita •••••••• . 644
Wolfe, Waylan ...... Aug. 20, 1967
year.
• Entered the Home during the pa.st
•• Children under expanded policy:
Tim Foott - Middleton Lodge No. 180, Wisconsin
David House - Mt. Nebo No. 214, Roseburg, Oregon
Tim&: Andy Pedret ti- Crystal Honor No. 1045, Chicago, Illinois
Alan Petzold - Warwick No. 544, New York

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

CHILD REN AT COVIN A HOME

June 30, 1.971
Girle- 24
No.
Lodge
Admitte d
Name
437
•••••••
r
Lancaste
1966
21,
Bickerstaff, Donna •• Sepl
Fontana ........ 653
Cabana, Sylvia ....... Feb. 15, 1969
Highland Park ••. 382
Crane, Diane• ••.•••. Feb. 24, 1971
Hollywood ...... 355
Gettig, Debra ....... June 16, 1964
Hollywood ...... 355
Gettig, Linda ........ June 16, 1964
Saint Elmo ...... 697
Gockley, Lori ....... Mar. 1, 1965
Saint Elmo ...... 697
Gockley, Robin .... .. Mar. 1, 1965
Manchester ..... 585
Hampton, Jennie .... Nov. 18, 1962
Van Nuys ....... 450
Hennessey, Chris .... Mar. 23, 1969
Ashlar ........ .. 306
Knauer, Nancy ...... Jan. 18, 1970
Westgate •••••••• 335
Mohr, Janet •••.•.•• • Feb. 4, 1967
Westgate ........ 335
Mohr, Sharon ........ Feb. 4, 1967
Crystal Honor .. 1025
Pedretti, SU5ail•• .... Oct. 1, 1966
Fresno ........ .. 247
Richardson, Cindy• .. Dec. 28, 1970
Fresno ........ .. 247
Richardson, Debra• .. Dec. 28, 1970
Fresno ••...••• •. 247
Richardson, Dea.nna.• .Dec. 28, 1970
San Marino ••••• 685
Torrance, Kathy ••••. Aug. 4, 1961
San Marino ••... 685
Torrance, Laurie •••• Sept. S, 1964
San Marino •.••. 685
Torrance, Pam .••.•. Aug. 27, 1961
San Marino ..... 685
Torrance, Sheryl ..... Aug. 27, 1961
Damascus ••••••. 648
Wieman, Debra• •.••. Aug. 29, 1970
Damascus ••••.•. 648
Wieman, Diana• ••••• Aug. 29, 1970
Yosemite ••••••. 99
Wiffler, Loretta• ••••. Aug. 6, 1970
Lomita ........ . 644
Wolfe, Nina ........ . Aug. 20, 1967
• Entered the Home during the past year.
•• Children under expanded policy
Donna Bickenta ff - Memphis Lodge No. 118, Tennessee
Susan Pedretti - Crystal Honor No. 1025, Chicago, Illinois

Are
ToUtn
Lancaster •••••••• 17
Fontana ........ . 16
Los Angeles •..••• 13
Hollywood ••••••• 14
Hollywood •.••••. 13
Oakland ........ . 17
Oakland ........ . 16
Los Angeles •••••• 14
VanNuy s ........ 11
Colton ........ ... 11
Los Angeles ...... 11
Los Angeles ...... 12
Chicago, Ill.....•. 10
Fresno ........ .. 10
Fresno •••••••• •. 16
Fresno ........ .. 14
San Marino ...... 16
San Marino ...... 12
San Marino ..... 15
San Marino ...... 14
San Bernardino ••• 16
Stan Bernardino •• 14
Merced •••••••• •. 14
Lomita ........ .. 12

DEPAR TED DURIN G THE YEAR
July 1, 1.970 thruJu ne 30, 1.971
Boys- 4

Age
(at departure dale)
ed
Discharg
Date
d
AdmiUe
Name
....... 19
Hamblin, Mike ........ .. Nov. 5, 1966 ........ Jan. 26, 1971. ........
...... . 18
Jenner, Mike ........ ... June24,1 967 ........ June 18, 1971. ........
........ ....... 19
Kausrud, Stuart ........ . Jan. 26, 1964 . ...... . June 18, 1971.........
........ 12
Sawyer, Delbert ........ .. Oct. 20, 1968 ........ Aug. 1, 1970

Girls -I

Age
(at departure dale)
ed
Discharg
Date
d
Admitte
Name
........ 10
Hampto n, Carol ........ . Nov.18, 1962 ........ Sepl 1, 1970........

452

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

COVINA RESERVE (Continued)

llASONIC HCllES COHTlUBUTIOHS
lllSC:

Contributions to Re1erv11
JULY l, 1970 • JUNE 30, 1971
(nie Lodge designation Indicates connection by
Interest but not necesterlly by llllllbershlp)
RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACE>IENTS
ESTATES:

Henry A. Brenierer
Wll 11• Breaux
ll•ry Zella Boles
Louis C. Butler
ll1delelne c. Burnette
Charles Dettllln
Wll llam J. D•vldson
Edgar J. Donlon
Robert J, Duncan
Gladys V. Dyer
Robert T. Edgar
John Fletcher
Eve Husted
Ethe 1 A. lassner
John A. Ledward
llossle II. Horris
Eva R. Robinson
Wll 1 A. Reynolds
Ernest J, floether
Orson A. l\osecrans
Wl lmer G. Sea 1
Earl A. Taylor
John Tonnlngsen

MISC:

Verne C. Hinrichsen
Howard N. GI lmore

ESTATES:

Ula P. Basel

(Presidio lodge No. 354)
(Le Progres de l'Oceenle Na, 371)
(Honoluh1 Lodge Ho. 409)
(Pallsades lodge Ho. 637)
(Covin• Lodge Mo. 334)
(111 ll V•lley lodge No. 356)
(Tuj unga lodge Ho, 592)
(Durante Lodge No. 268)
(Park lodge Ho. 449)
{Washington Lodge Ho, 20)

(Golden State Lodge No. 353)
(Excelsior lodge No. 166~
(East Gate lodge Ho. 290
(Oriental lodge Ho. 144)

'

',500.00
793.60
1,208.95
500.00
56,322.30
1,oos.00
1,000.00
5,613.68
116.93
13,890.18
2,000.00

lt88.D4

2,000.00
18,9118.44
272.4o
t,275.51i
lU.16
2,474.83
2,2n..10
2,532.41
10,710.00
3,247.52
5,983.23

COVINA RESERVE
llorrls Beller
(\(la, llhodes Hervey Ho, 767)
Letitia E. Boundey
llay Donald Butler
Virginia Casey
II. V, Coley
Elcle Cook
Frances Ilaria Dalmas
Frank Davis
(Madera Lodge Ho. 280)
Edgar O. Dryden
Anita II. Dunn
Anna Clara Duncan
RI chard T. Eddy
(Argonne lodge Ho, 514)
David R. Fagerholm
(Argonne Lodge Ho. 514)
llarlon Leona F\eckac:s
John Carl Ghdetsch
Lorenzo H. Has kl n
(Pomona Lodge No, 246)
Walter fl. Huebel
(Palestine Lodge No, 351)
Saphronla El lzabeth Hepworth
Pearl B, Jacobs
Harold w. Jacobs
(Doric Lodge No. 116)
W•lter F. Krueger
(.Military Service Lodge Ho, 579)
Florence Jul la Kock
J - s Noon
(Arcadia lodge Ho. 547)
Freda Mel lsen
Louis L. Oakley
(lloneta Lodge No. 4<>5)
Madison T. <Mens
(So. California Lodge Ho. 278)
Orrin Wesley Potter
Fred w. Rank
(O 111111 Loci
Ho •·•8)
Anna Sarduka
ge
• ""'
Adallne E. & Howard Stevens
Charles D, Stl'Qngren
(Live Oak Lodge No, 61)
Edward R. Versteeg
(East Gate Lodge Ho. 290)
Jesse H. Watson
(Meridian lodge No, 667)

453

2,000.00
250.00
6,899.60
2,300.01
205.ll

646.23
7,114

6,768.26
2,o63.83
1,059.11
25,000.00
16,740.15
12,514.08
45,608.07
5,740.82
1,861.61
39,25
500.00
2,500.00
1,250.00
1,250.00
3911,51
93,767.35
21,608.02
2,Z74.S6
5,000.00
8,000.00
88.00
2,106.67
3,475.SO
11,174.80
27.35
5,078.34
1.47

John A. Burt
The Flying Wing Acecla Club
of the Northrop Corp.
Dorothy o. Garvey
lngl_.oo Ass...i.ly Mo. 131,
Rainbow for Girls
lngl....x>d Bethel Mo. 56,
0 rde r of Job 1 s Daughters
lngl_,.,.t Chapter Order of
Dellolay Mo. 1457
Elfrieda B. I rwln
l.->n Grove Kesonlc K..-ers Guild

Angus llacleod
llobll 011 Corp.
Emp I oyees 1 Tuscan C1ub
Order of The Eastern Star • Starlette
Club of Thousand Oaks, Ho. 375
Order of The Eastern Star Triangle Chapter Ho. 456
Wesley D. Rodbury
Rotary Club
Southern California Edison Co.,
Emp I oyees 1 cont r I but Ions
Square &. Compass Club
Superior Cal lfornla Dellolay Association

COVINA REDEVELOPllENT FUND
lllSC:

Al llalalbh Te111Pl• of the Shrine
Lesl le H. Anderson
Association of Women In Architecture
a.brsfleld Past Matrons Associations
Wayna Bates
Bixby Knol h Lodge No, 699, F&AH
Kilton W. Castle
Crescent Metal Products Co., Inc.
John Capaen - Memorial Fund
Sam V. Cipriano
Jo•n Devis
Dos Palos Assembly Ho. 91 Order of Rainbow for GI rls
Murray &. Lynn Dunn
Emerson Jr. High School
Hugh F. Evans
Employees of The National Cash
Register Ccnpany
Lucian Farland
Ed &. Karl 1111 Gaylord
General Dyn•lcs Pomona llasonlc Club
Grand Bethel Order of Job 1 s Daughters
The Grand Guardian Council of Calif.
llorrls c. Guss
Grand York Rite Sessions of Cal If.
Howard E. Haines
J - s G. Hodges
HI ram league
Gr•ce P. Hol11111n
District Officers Assn • 542nd
International Order of
Job's Daughters, Bethel 222
International Order of
Job's Daughters, Bakersfield 230
Joseph & Virginia Kopchlnsky
Cl l fford &. Joseph Kucere

Lockheed Ka son 1c Club
Bert Ina Kennan
Mineral King Lodge Ho. 720, F&AH
Paul E. lluff
Horth Park High Twelve Club
Order of EHtern Star, Glendale Chapter
Order of Eastern Star, Lexington Chapter
Order of Dellolay, Huntington Beach Chapter
Order of Dellolay, Valley Chapter
Order of Dellolay, Tehama Chapter
Order of Golden Sllpper, Zayln Chapter
Order of Rainbow Girls, Burlingame 187
Order of Rainbow Girls, Santa Barbara 116
Rocket Square Club
Wi II iam Sader
San Fernando Valley Club, Ladles
Oriental Shrine of North America
San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club
San Gabriel Valley Hoblettes
Santa Barbara Lodge Mo. 192, F&AH
Santa Fe Employees Club
Sacramento District corps of Engineers•
Square &. Compass Club
Downey Shrlnettes
Sun City North Hens 1 Golf Club
White Shrine
l. R. Wilbur, Inc.
Sidney L, Wllll811S

COVINA REDEVELOPMENT •MEMORIALS
Lloyd Bass
Frank Beck

VI II lam H. cannon

Guland Raymond Gay
V, B. Holland

Edith Hurban
Ernest Mosher
Harold N. Richards
John Swanfeldt
STUDENT Al D FUND

Callfornla State Craft of National Federal Craft
Davida 11. Ewing (G. w. Ewing lluslc Sc:holarshlp)

454

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHRIS'Jl1AS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

DECOTO RESERVE
ESTATES: Morris Beller
(\1111, Rhodes Hervey Lodge No, 767)
May Donald Butler
Elcle Cook
Frank Davis
(Madera Lodge No. 280)
Hilton F. Dodd
(Mission Lodge No, 169)
Elsie H. Drucker
Anita H. Dunn
David R. Fagerholm
(Argonne Lodge No, 514)
John Carl Gladetsch
Hennan \(, Guenther
(Oak Grove Lodge No, 215)
Charles H. Hawthorne
(Cal lstoga Lodge No, 233)
Hannah T. Hamlin
Will lam E. Kehoe
(Sequo 1a Lodge No, 349)
Joseph I ne A. Lllll
Pearl 11. Jacobs
Harold It', Jacobs
.CDorle Lodge No, 216)
Arthur c. llcKeehan
(Naval Lodge No, 87)
Freda Nielsen
Alfred O. Pihl
(San Marino Lodge No, 685)
Della Simon Prescott
Nicholas Henry Prusch (Ht. Moriah Lodge No. '*4)
Anna Sarduke
Ceorge Malcolm Sinclair (Las Pal11111s Lodge No, 366)
John P, Shultz
(P.so Robles Lodge No, 286)
Habel Spencer
George B. St i eke 1
(Temple Lodge No, 14)
Adeline E• .Stevens
Nora H, Tight
John J, VonAspern
(Oakland Lodge No, 188)
Kary Joseph Wentz
MISC:

J, D. Hague
Mr. s. Mrs. Harry P, Hannon
Mob I 1 011 Corp.
Employees• Tuscan Club
Harriett .II, Moore

.lllSC:

Grand Bethel Order of Job's Daughters
Vallejo Lodge Ho, lt87, f~

$

100.00
6,900.00
55, 137 .44
23,342.50
1,058.00
61,277.82
99,68S.2Z
ltS,688, IS
1,861.62
1,050,35
34,328.46
544.76
10,000.00
10,000.00
l ,250.00
1,250,00
6, 192,24
S,135.81
968.74
20,000.00
50,000.00
3,475.51
1,000.00
4o.36
9,470.59

soo.oo

ll, 174.91
1,000.00
16,244.52

soo.oo

Alexander B. Paul
.llelvln Sadowsky
TRW Einployees' Charity Organization
C, P, Woolpert

DECOTO REDEVELOPHEHT FUND

455

Tho Trustees of the Masonic Homes acknowledge with appreciation the contributions
received from:
Knights Templar COn'manderles
Sacramento No. 2
Nevada No. 6
San Luis Obispo Ho. 27

Palo Alto No. 47
Whittler No. 51

Royal Arch Masons Chapters
Nevada No. 6
Hanford No, 74
Pomona Ho. 76
Palo Alto No. 93

Fidelity No. 96
Redondo No. 101
Sebastopol Ho. 117
Wilmington Ho. 141

A, i A. S, R. (Bodies)
Burlingame
Fresno
Oakland

Sacramento
San Diego
San Jose

District Officers Associations
219th District
42.lst District
5o6th District
530th DI strict

536th District
S38th District
605th District
62.Sth District

Masonic Clubs
Compass Club - East Whittler
Danish Masonic Club
Long Beach Masonic club

San Francisco Square Club
San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club
Sun City Masonic Club

De Molay, Job's Daughters, Rainbow for Girls
De Molay, Paul Revere Chapter
De Molay, Jehama Chapter
Job's Daughters, Bethel 207

Job's Daughters, Bethel 231
Job's Daughter5, Bethel 2.81
Job's Daughters, Bethel 354

456

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHll.ISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
(Continued)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CHRISTHAS AND ENT'ERTAltflEHI' l\ESERVE
(~ntlnued)

Eastern Star and Amaranth
Atascadero Chapter
No. 344, O.E.S.
East Bay Matrons 1951 O.E.s.
Mercedes Chapter No.126, O.E.s.
Past Matrons Assn., Bakersfield
Past Matrons s Past Patrons
Assn. of Santa Cruz

LODGES
Hlguellto Chapter No. 176, O.E.s.
San Rafael Chapter No, 215, O,E,S,
69th District of Eastern Star
Past Matrons & Past Patrons
Torrance Chapter No. 380, O,E,S,
Treasurers of California, O.E.S,
TuJunga Chapter No. 445, O.£.s.

Mlscel laneous
·Mr. s Hrs, Harry Baker
Hr, s Mrs. Frank Brewster
Stanley Black,
L, A. Chanukah Party
Lee Burgeson, honoring 50th
Wedding Annlv. of
Dr. s Hrs, Sau Yee Chang
Hilton N. Duarte
Dan Durham, Steel Erection
s Maintenance Co.
Kathryn Edwards
Hr. s Hrs. Stanley Fisher
Henry and Adel Freu)lch
Hr. s Hrs. J, F. Gerdes
Hr. s Hrs. Louis Hageman
Hrs, Della Harpster
Clarence S, Hearn
Mary B. Hequembourg
Herald Examiner
Hr. s Hrs. H. W. Hoover
Inland Empire Guardian
Council Assn.
Hr. & Hrs. Samuel Jacobs
Mr. &Hrs. W. c. Kasmir•
R. Hal Knighton
John Leonard

457

Hans A. Leonhardt
B. H. Mehling
Montebello High '!Welve Club
Hr. s Hrs. £. c. Neher
North Park High Twelve Club
Order of Golden Slipper, Glendale
Order of Golden SI lpper; He
Order of Golden Slipper, Shin
Order of Golden Slipper, Zaylln
Hr. s Hrs, H. v. Overly
Peninsula Golden Chain Assn.
Hr. Alonzo L. Parker
Paul A. Pflueger
Rachel Shrine No. 107 • Order of
White Shrine of Jerusalem of
Santa Rosa
Mr. s Hrs. Sud Retzloff
Sacramento Masters & Wardens Assn.
Hr. S. Hrs. Edward SI Iva
Hr. s Mrs. William Low Smith
Grace £. Stofl e
Tano Club of the Hal ta White Shrine
Hr. & Mrs. Robert B. Thompson
Blanche£. Wallace
Mr. fl. Hrs. W. M. Webster
John s Katharine Willi
Charles A. Wilson

Cal lfomla No.
Tehama No. 3
Yount No. 12
Eureka No. 16
La Parfait• Union No, 17
San Joaquin No. 19
Washington No. 20
Hawaiian Ho. 21
Madison No. 23
El Dorado No. 26
Trinity No. 27
Golden Gate Speranza Ho. 30
Gold Hill No, 32
San Diego No, 3S
Santa Cruz: No. 38
Mount Moriah No. "4
Union No. SB
Natoma No. 64
Enterprise Ho. 70
Kllllboldt No, 79
Yosemite Ho. 99
Clay No. 101
Oroville No. 103
Chico Ho. 111
Eden Ho. 113
Fidelity Ho. 120
Alamo No. 122
Lafayette Ho. 126
Hermann No. 127·
Pacific Ho. 136
Crockett No. 139
Franklin No. 143
Oriental No. 144
Woodland No. 156
Excelsior No, 166
Redwood City No. 168
Petaluma No. 180
Karl n No. 191
Mountain View No. 194
Wilmington No. 198
Sllveyvllle No. 201
Stanislaus No. 206
Friendship No. 210
So. San Francisco No. 212
Oak Grove Ho. 21S
Monterey Ho, 217
Roseville No. 222
Bakersfield No. 224
San Hateo Ho. 226
Athens No, 228
Hills Ferry No. 236
Guada 1upe No. 237
Santa Ana No. 241
Panona No. 246
Reading No. 254
Evergreen No. 259
Tuscan No. 261
L~c No. 262
Hesperlan No. 264
Orland No. 265
Galt Ho. 267
Olive Branch Ho. 269

Arroyo Ho. 274
Hanford No. 279
Haunt Shasta No. 281
South West Ho. 283
Paso Robles No: 286
East Gate No. 290
Redlands No. 300
Azusa No, 305
Ashlar No. 306
Monrovia No. 308
Temescal No. 314
Norwalk No. 315
Needles No. 326
Long Beach Ho. 327
Redondo No. 328
Fruitvale No. 336
Carqulnez No. 337
Starr King No. 344
Palo Alto No. 346
McKinley No. 347
San Bernardi no No. 348
Sequoia No. 349
Palestine No. 351
Pinole No. 353
Kill Valley No. 356
Charity No. 362
Will Its No. 365
Amity-Seal Rock Ho. 370
Jewel No, 374
RI clvnond No. 375
Francis Drake No, 376
Artesia No, 377
Hlzpah No. 378
Fillmore Ho. 379
Dinuba Ho. 385
Parnassus-Presidio Ho. 388
Balder No. 393
University No. 394
Rising Light No, 397
Verba Buena No. 403
Moneta No. 405
La Hesa Ho. 407
Honolulu Ho. 409
Perris No. 411
SJ Iver Trowel No. 415
Lindsay No. 416
San Dimas No. 428
Alpha Ho, 431
Harlcopa No. 434
Falnnount Ho. 435
Standard Ho. 440
Coronado No. 441
Blaclaner Ho. 442
Torrance Ho. 447
Mount Dlablo Ho. 4118
Mount Oso No. 460
Argonaut-Argome Ho. li6t
Paul Revere No. 462
Rockrldge No. 468
Delta Ho. 471
Temblor Ho. 477
'lbousand Ollcl Ho. 478

Golden Rule Ho. 479
Mount Davidson Ho. 481
Bell Ho. 483
Chowc:hllla Ho. 485
Caledonia Ho. 486
East Bay No. 489
Atascadero No. "93
Acorn No. 494
Capital City Ho. 4.99
Roosevelt Ho. !jOO
Point No. 503
El Segundo No. 507
Cupertino No. 510
Cahuenga No. 513
Taft No. 516
George Wash I ngton Ho, 525
Bay City Ho, 526
Covenant No. 527
H. M. Stephens No. 541
San Gabriel No, 546
Point Firmin No. 558
East San Diego No. 561
s. V. Hackett No. 574
El Cajon Valley No. 576
Progressive No. 578
Compass No. 590
Tujunga No. 592
Service No. 594
Alexander Grah1111 Bell Ho, 595
Dimond No. 603
Glassel! Park No. 605
Provident No. 609
The Gardens No. 621
Riverside Ho. 635
Palisades No. 637
Alta Loma No. 643
LOll!lta No. 644
A. F. E. I rwln No. 645
San Gorgonlo No. 668
Far West Ho. 673
Modesto No. 67S
Carmel No. 680
Oos Palos Ho. 681
Albany No. 686
011dale No. 688
lndlan Walls Valley No. 691
El Cerrito No. 705
Estero Ho. 719
Saint John's Ho. 725
lterced No, 749
Golden Bowl Ho. 755
Clayton Valley Ho. 7S6
Vest Covina Ho. 758
Lakeside No. 760
J, W. Roi !er No. 761
Coastslde No. 762
TeJon No. 773
Ro111ng Hl11s No. 781
Oak Plains No. 789
Gemini No. 825

GENERAL

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

GENE RAL

459

APPE NDIX

CONTEN TS

Standing Committees ...•.•.. .•...... ........ ........ .....•.. .. 460
Special Committees . • . . . . . . • . • • . . . • . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • 464
Constitut ional Boards . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 468
Masonic Homes • . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 469
California Masonic Memoria l Temple ........ ........ ........ ..... 470
California Masonic Foundati on ........ ........ ........ ........ .. 470
Registration and Mileage Payments ........ ........ ........ ...... 471
List of Constitue nt Lodges . . . • . . • • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • • . . 495
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 509
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organiza tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . 516
List of Inspector s . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . ... . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 523
Foreign Grand Lodges ........ .......• •....... ........ .•..•.• .•• 527
Alphabetical List of Lodges • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • . . • . 533
Correspondence Report Announcement ........ •....... .....••. .•.. 541

Index ••.•••• •....•.. .••..... ........ ........ ....•... ....•... 542

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STANDING COMMITTEES
JURISPRUD ENCE
Leo E. Anderson (355) ... . .. . .... . ..... 500 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 90017
Elmer W. Heald (884)
16470-81 Caminit.o Vecinos, Rancho Bernardo, San Diego 92128
Carl H. Allen (388) . . . . ... . ...... •• .... City Hall, Rm. 429, San Francisco 94102
Robert B. Watts (518) .... . ..... • ............ 7949 Princess St., La Jolla 92037
Guy Reynolds (95) ... . ... .. ...... ... ....... . ...... ... ... Sutter Creek 95685
Donald R. Fretz (99) .............. . ... . ....... . 2804 Tahoe Dr., Merced 95340
James W. Halley (375) ............... ....... 529 W. Poplar, San Mateo 94402
Melvyn B. Stein (35) .... . ....... . ..... 6625 Murray Park Dr., San Diego 92120
Edward I. Davenport (743) ... . .. . . 5254 Goodland Ave., North Hollywood 91607

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ......... . .. 229-A Avenida Majorca, Laguna Hills 92658
Theodore Meriam ( 111) .. .. ..... .. ............. 713 Arbutus Ave., Chico 95926
Eugene S. Hopp (260) ... . ..... .. . . ... 2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94109
Herbert A. Huebner (445) ... . .... . ....... 610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Gilbert A. Benoit (260) .. ... ... 1880 Pacific Ave., Apt. 504, San Francisco 94109
Frank P. Lemen (613) ... . ........ . ..... . ..... 932-42nd St., Sacrament.o 95819
Arthur Dvorin (639) .. . .. .. ...... .. ..... 454 S. Detroit St., Los Angeles 90036
Ronald D. Waddell (370) .... . .........•. . ....... 1411 Ivy Ln., Petaluma 94952
Albert T. EfHe (467) ............ • ....... 4124 Jasmine Ave., Culver City 90280

FINANCE
John A. Sickenberger (392) ........ Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
John C. Wiesner (144) . . . . . .. .... ... .. . . .• 49 Lake Forest Dr., Daly City 94015
Oran 0. Bridges (776) .......... . ......... . ... 11910 Kibbee, La Mirada 90688
Joseph H. Horn (672) ............... ....... P. 0. Box 928, Laguna Beach 92652
Fung Chow Chan (587) .. ...... ... .. . 2208 Silver Lake Blvd., Los Angeles 90039
John D. Larkin (27) ..... . .... . .............. P. 0. Box 250, Weaverville 96098
E. Leon Moynier (466) ... • ..........•... 6608 Tallman Ave., Bakersfield 93308

GRIEVANCES
Alfred J. Mccourtney (437) ..•............ ..... 3108 Menlo Dr., Glendale 91208
Harold S. Morrison (450) .... . ... . . .. .. . 14615 Magnolia Blvd., Van Nuys 91403
Charles Becker (344) ... .. Municipal Court, 75 Wellington Ave., Daly City 94015
Byron C. Morton (259) .. .. ............ . . 5411 Magnolia Ave., Riverside 92506
Melville H. Nahin (520) ... ... ..... . ... . 6399 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
Donald H. Smith (217) . .... . .. . ........ . . .. ... P. 0. Box 1008, Monterey 93940
Don I. Asher (19) . ...... .. .... .. ..... • ... 313 Cimarron Ave., Stockton 95207

CREDENTIA LS
J. Glen Gladson (542) ........ 4201 Topango Canyon Blvd., Woodland Hills 91364
Harry F. Lutticken (166) . . .............. 1611-7th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Stanford Fong (549) .... . ......... 1445 Larkin St., Apt. 5, San Francisco 94109
George D. Shepard (715) . . ............ 3005 Altura Ave., La Crescenta 91214
Hugh A. Hoskins (220) .. •. ...... . ....... .. .. 11733 Patton Rd., Downey 90241
Rupert R. Towell (198) ...... . ... . ..•.. 1532 Neptune Ave., Wilmington 90744
Roy R. Pool (446) ...... . ......... . ... 2115 Los Padres, Rowland Heights 91745

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

461

PAY OF MEMBERS
E. Lloyd Hanson (494) •. •• ....•••••..• • .•• 1175 Wellington St., Oakland 94602
Jacob M. Kartzinel (520) .............. 10889 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90004
Dean H. Dewhurst (479) .. ................ •..• 14020 Aldo Ct., San Jose 95127
Edward A. Fromsky (42) ....... . ...... 1031 N. Laurel Ave., Los Angeles 90046
Ted R. Siems (357) • ..•......... . .... . .•... 1128 W. North St., Anaheim 92801
Lloyd E. Wiggs (700) ................ ••.•.•.. 3535 E. Michigan, Fresno 93703
Richard D. Gyllenskog II (212) . . ...•..•. 104 Staples Ave., San Francisco 94112

CHARTERS
Kenneth Hemphill (728) ...... .. ........•••• P. 0. Box 4022, Long Beach 90804
Frank Homer (666) ... . ..... . .. . ..... . ... 610 Pullman Rd., Hillsborough 94010
Harry L. Maynard (214) . .•.......•.. • •... 5448 Bryn Mawr Dr., Ventura 93003
Marvin F. Reno (586) .. ... .... .. .... • 10392 Parliament St., Garden Grove 92640
Lewis G. McCall (209) .. . .......... • .• 1560 Hillcrest Pl., San Luis Obispo 93401
Gary H. Bentley (718) ..•............• ..•••••.•.•. P. 0. Box 691, Felton 95018

BY-LAWS
Alden Fulkerson, Sr. (35) •..... • ......•..•....• . 3205 Poe St., San Diego 92106
Charles H. Grace (635) • . ... . .•........•.. 4310 Highland Pl., Riverside 92506
Robert A. Wertsch (22) ..........•. 90 San Benit.o Way, San Francisco 94127
Donald M. Binkerd (693) ........•. 4704 Sunny Dunes Rd., Palm Springs 92262
John B. Morgan (259) ..... . ............•. 3527 Carlsbad Way, Riverside 92506
Leonard K. Herendeen (813) ... • ..•....•.... 40060-75th St., W. Palmdale 93550
Ngai H. Hong (570) ...•..•........ ....... 42 Morrell St., San Francisco 94109

CORRESPONDENCE
George W. Burch, Jr. (650) .....•..... • ...... 417 S. Hill St., Los Angeles 90013
Fred W. Morris (394) .. . ...... • ......•....• 1841 Garretson Ave., Corona 91720
C. S. Barrett (662) ......... .. ... 3370% San Marino St., Los Angeles 90005
J. Wilson Getsinger (518) ..•. . ............... .. P.O. Box 442, La Jolla 92037
Lewellyn Edward Tully (302) ............... ... 206 Kings l;'l., King City 93930
Bill J. Abbott (811) ... . ..... .. ............... .. 6954 Rubio, Van Nuys 91406
Carl L. DeWitt (268) ............... • . ... 4221 Harmon Rd., El Sobrante 94803

LODGE FINANCING
Richard L. Riemer (778) ..... . .. 1212 N. Broadway, Suite 204, Santa Ana 92701
Victor R. Oltmanns (505) .........•..••. ....•.... 4282 Seton Rd., Irvine 92664
Keith V. Johnson (655) .....•.....•... .•...•.. 247 E. Scott, Long Beach 90805
George W. Sturm (254) •...••......... •...... 3410 Scenic Dr., Redding 96001
Robert W. Campini (564) ..••...•.. 1801 No. 6, Skycrest Dr., Walnut Creek 94595
S. K. Brantley, Jr. (99) ..••........•.. •.•....••.. Shaffer Bldg., Merced 95340
David W. Jones (728) •.••....••.•.•. ....•. 864 Stevely Ave., Long Beach 90815
Burdette J. McKinnis (58) •.......•...... . 926 "J" Building, Sacramento 95814
David M. Shull (728) ••••••••.•••••• •.....••••• 23 Crest Rd., Lafayette 94549

463

PROCEEDINGS OP' THE

GRAND LODGE OP' CALIP'ORNIA

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES

PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Joseph F. Ganiott (630) ••..•••••••..•..•. 8844-19th Ave., San Francisco 94132
Bernie J. Katz (120) •••••••.••.....•••.••. 1864-28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Phil Bovero (374) •••••••.••..•......••••. 2222-39th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Edward W. Quon (673) .••••••.•••••••••• 750 Grant Ave., San Francisco 94108
Frederick A. Wilson (356) ••.••••.•••••.•••••.•.•• 806-4th St., Sausalito 94965
Ben A. Katz (344) •••.••••.•••••••••••••. 2166-47th Ave., San Francisco 94116
William H. Osborne (449) •....•.....•..••. 1982-48th Ave., San Francisco 94116
John Newsham (525) •••••.•...•....••. 86 Alta Mar Way, San Francisco 94121
Robert W. Moore (80) •....•.........•. 367 Lakeshore Dr., San Francisco 94182
JohnJ. Dunn (470) .••••...........•••.••.. 618-28th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Arthur C. Kuersten (370) .•••••••••••••.. 1771-47th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Lester F. Anderson (260) ......•• 1240 Pennsylvania Ave., San Francisco 94107
Kenneth C. Birnbaum (120) .••...••.•.••. 845 Sloat Blvd., San Francisco 94182
Walter R. Carlson (554) ......••••••.•.••.•• 77 Palmdale Ave., Daly City 94015
Albert Miller, Jr. (630) •...•••...•••....• 457 Oxford St., San Francisco 94182
Edwin C. Mathisen (360) .•.•.•...••...•. 837 Douglas St., San Francisco 94114
Consultant:
Vernon C. Harp (458) •..••..•.•..••.•.. 4141 Geary Blvd., San Francisco 94118

Richard H. Dutwiler (622) ••••.... •• ••.•. . 3920 Legion Ln., Los Angeles 90039
Earl Van Vorst (286) ••..•••••..•.•..•••••.•. P. 0. Box 233, Paso Robles 93446
Clyde M. Stine (560) •..•••.•...•....••••.•. 444-15th Ave., San Francisc~ 94118
William R. Porter (318) .....•.•.....•••••.••. P. 0. Box 206, Tehachapi 93561
Robert Kerr (725) •..•.....••.•......•.•.••••• 1816 N. 6th St., Concord 94520
Laurence C. Cook (648) .•.••..••••...•• 582 Parkdale Dr., San Bernardino 92404
Philip C. Reiner (264) •..•...•..••.•••••.•.. 1414 S. Miller, Santa Maria 93454
Milton M. Rubin (628) .••.••••.••••••. 2141 W. Washington, Los Angeles 90014
Robert M. Evans (516) .•.•..•.••••.••.•...•••• 204 E. San Emidio, Taft 93268
George Hess (684) ..................................... Box 61, Trona 93562
Richard A. Hebert (169) .•.....••.•.... 2730 Rollingwood Dr., San Bruno 94066
Dana A. Turpin (336) •••••••••..•.•...•.... 3332 Liberty Ave., Alameda 94501
William E. Zimmerman (58) •..•••••..•...••.. 3959-57th St., Sacramento 95820
Rodger D. Siems (615) ••.•.•••....•••...•.•.. 28012 Warren Rd., Hemet 92343
Dean L. Shively (104) ••••..••••••••••.•• 3348 Lexington Ave., El Monte 91731
William Eilers (676) •••••.....•••..••.•••. 1777 Glen Una Ave., San Jose 95125
Ra)'Dlond c. Reeder (384) .•.•••.....•••.••••.••••.. 1572 Elm, E~ Centro 92243
Darrol E. Davis (431) ..••.••••....•.•....•••.••. 425-36th St., Richmond 94805
M. w. Holsinger (259) ••.•••..•••••.•.••.••••. 5525 Chatham, Riverside 92506
Roland O. Hughes (421) .•...•.•.••..•...••.. 268 Regent Cir., Inglewood 90301
Harry E. Hiraoka (277) •.•••••.•..•••...•.. 6232 S. Leonard Ave., Fowler 93625
Robert H. Gutcher (801) ..••••.•.•..••.. 46-484 Hololio, Kaneohe, Hawaii 96744
Richard L. Gandt (716) •.•..•..•..•.•..•. 555 Cherry Ave., Long Beach 9081~
Richard Baugh (656) ............................... 630 S. Maple, Brea 9262
John H. Petersen (35) ••.••.....••••.••..••.••. 4685-49th St., San Diego 92115
Consultants:
Richard R. F. Lehmann (851) ..•..•.•...••. 800 W. 1st St., Los Angeles 90012
Oscar E. Anderson (481) •••.•...••..•. 185 Graystone Ter., San Francisco 94114

462

NECROLOGY
Edward A. Underwood (636) •.••••...• .. 1310 N. Fuller Ave., Los Angeles 90046
William E. Rife (786) ••••••...•••.••••••. 2040 Dayton Dr., Lemon Grove 92046
Monie Goldstein (120) •....•.•••.•..••.•. 2090 Broadway, San Francisco 94116
Ralph E. Nowak (351) •.•••....•••..••.... 3000 Kelton Ave., Los Angeles 90034
Warren A. Brusie (784) .•.•...•....••.•••.•••.•.. 626 Broadway, Chico 96926

RI1UAL
H. Douglas Lemons (699) ......•....••••••. 2958 Daneland St., Lakewood 90712
Burton 0. Young (336) .......................... 11 Wendy Ln., Orinda 94568
Edward E. Seagle (730) .•••.•....•.•••... 6024 Tahoe Way, Sacramento 95817
Ulysses G. Patropulos (260) ....••.• 1360 Leavenworth St., San Francisco 94109
Wallace H. Fiske (391) ••••.....•••..•.•••..... P. 0. Box 631, Tuolumne 96879
George W. Perkins (378) •...••..•.•....••. 7059 Costello Ave., Van Nuys 91406
Ernest M. Newton (296) .....•••.......•.. 4235 Bernadine PL, San Diego 92116

MASONIC HISTORY
Phillip L. Goldstein (42) •.••••••••..•••. 219 Hamilton Dr., Beverly Hills 90211
Paul Cowgill (1) ••.•••••••..•. 200 Lake Dr., Portola Park W., San Bruno 94066
Fred 0. Sherill (237) •••.••..•.•.••••..••.•.. P. 0. Box 376, Santa Maria 98464
Reginald Reynolds (576) ............................... Fall River Mills 96028
Robert L. Hirt (810) ••.•.•.••.•••.••••.•...•. 6351 Glen Aire, Riverside 92506
Dennis A. Cobb (417) ........................ 3605 Dolbeer St., Eureka 96601
Samuel W. Ballinger (824) ••••••••. .•••• 10 N. Glenbrook Ave., Camarillo 98010

MASONIC INFORMATION AND RESPONSIBILITY
William F. Poynter (545) •••.•..••••• 1200 Monterey Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Louis I. Goldkind (120), Vice Chairman, North
98 Crestlake Dr., San Francisco 94132
John L. Cooper, ID (641), Vice Chairman, South
24131 Puerta de Luz, Mission Viego 92675
Henry D. Oliphant (360) ••...•..•••.••••..•. 2915 Florida St., Oakland 94602
John R Nocas (537) ••.••.•••.•.•..••.•••..•••••• Box 2366, Inglewood 90305
C Cliff~rd Geddes (19) •••••••..••••••..... 836 W. Swain Rd., Stockton 95207
Cahn (120) ••••••.••. 1991 Junipero Sierra Blvd., Daly City 94014
Herbert
Norbert P. Tester (384) •.••..•.•••.••.••..•.•••••.. Box 100, El Ce~tro 92234
Emile R. Laversin (1) ••.•.•.••••.••••...•. 210-llth Ave., San FranClSco 94118
William J. Berry (710) ••..•...••.••.•.•..... 3400 Jackson St.~ Oxnard 98032
David C Lee (492) .............................. Box 366, Wnghtwood 92397
Clarenc~ E. Baker (330) •••••.••••••••..•.••.••. 458 Kehaulani St., Hilo 96720
Max H. Rush, Jr. (812) •.••••••..••••..••.•. 12925 Joshua Ln., Norwalk 90650
Kenneth B. Conklin (616) .•.••.••.•...... 4858 Pearce Ave., Lon~ Beach 90808

w.

464

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

465

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
Herman R. Moore (847) ........ 6834 Sherwood Forest 16460, El Sobrante 94808
Charles N. Clarkson (767) ................ 1602 W. Walnut St., Stockton 95208
Jack B. Crawford (628) ........•..... 2404 Midwickhill Dr., Alhambra 91808
Warren L. Bacon (343) ••........... •..... 13533 Bransford St., Pacioma 91332
Earl C. Arbuckle (111) .........•....•......•. 384 E. Washington, Chico 96926
Robert Shultz (719) ...•...••.....•..... 1170 Quintana Dr., Morro Bay 93442
Wiley T. Killingsworth (699) .....•..•... 4166 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 90807
James E. Calhoun (422) .•....••...... 1466 Holbrook Ave., Los Angeles 90041
James T. Coulson (604) ........••••••...... 1326 N. Garnsey Santa Ana 92706
Norman Smith (682) .•••...•..•..••••.....•...•... P. 0. Bo~ 43, Yermo 92398
Cly~e E. Rodgers (390) ••..••..••••••••..• 662 Wensley Ave., El Centro 92248
~u1s M. Frawley (66) •••.....••.•..•..... 1636 Mayberry Ct., Fairfield 94633
Clifford L. Duncan (222) ...•••...••.• 7406 Convair Way, Citrus Heights 96610
Phil N. Crawford (199) •....•....•.•••••.••..•... 160-6th St., Lakeport 96468
Richard Hopelain (821) ..•...•••...........•. 26017 Valley Pl., Carmel 93921
Warren E. Rake (533) ..............•. 1606 W. Maxzim Ave., Fullerton 92633
Robert E. Hedblom (791) ...........•.... 7446 Westwood Dr., Riverside 92604
Milton E. Ott (79) .....•............ •..•. ...•.. 2923 Albee St., Eureka 96601
Glen A. Worrell (773) .......•...... 3600 Candelwood Dr., Bakersfield 93036
George M. Haley (606) •............. 4489 Mont Eagle Pl., Los Angeles 90041
Lloyd J. Patterson (616) ............•. 1220 Crestview Ave., Seal Beach 90740
Carl Minton (686) ........................ 2286 Melville Dr. San Marino 91108
William S. Britton (361) ............•..... 2320 Teviot St., 'Los Angeles 90039
Joseph W. Dr~ke (659) ..•.........•..•... 2320 W. Story Ave., La Habra 90631
Darrol D. Davis (481) •••...••................ 3404 May Rd., Richmond 94803
Stuart M. Cowan (598) .1350 Ala Moana Blvd., No. 2311, Honolulu, Hawaii 96814
Edgar Gump~l (442) ......•.•••...••...••..... 4787-54th St., San Diego 92116
James E . Poindexter (499) ................ 6912 Maita Cir. Sacramento 96820
Wilfred O'Neill (41) .......................... 226 Paso N~gal, Concord 94523
Earl L. Eastin (564) .................•... 16067 Via Nueva, San Lorenzo 94580
John G. Barnes, Jr. (642) ........... • ..•. 420 Alcala Ln., Santa Barbara 93101
No~an Mullen (241) ..•.....•.....••..•. 1859 Sacramento St., Orange 92667
Melvin Baer (620) .••....••••.....•.• 10577 Welworth Ave., Los Angeles 90024
Norman E. Hale (674) ........•.•...•..... 6012 Lomond Dr., San Diego 92120
Warren Blomseth (603) .............•••.... 5751 Sierra Cielo Rd., Irvine 92664

COMMERCIALISM
James J. Dalton (403) ............................ 3 Bel Air Ct., Orinda 94563
C~arence Guffey (283) .•••.... 10770 Jamacha Blvd., Sp. 67, Spring Valley 92077
Vincent P. McMurdo (454) .....••. 276 Park Plaza Dr., Apt. 14, Daly City 94015
Stanley H. Nielsen (530) •.•...•.....•...•...•• 1867 W. Homan, Fresno 93705
Arthur M. Williams (27) .....•......•...........•. Box 2 Junction City 96048
T. Galt Atwoo~ (464) .•••..••.•.•..• •... ..•.. P.O. Box 2096, Yountville 94699
Edward E. Smith (454) .......•..... • .... 2512-19th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Roy T. Kiele (419) ...•............ 46077 Deep Canyon Rd., Palm Desert 92260
Mark E. Schrock (612) ...... 1245 W. Cienega Ave., Sp., 135, San Dimas 91773
Gerald M. Page (577) ...•.....•....•..... 3648 W. 116th St., Inglewood 90303
George W. Nelson (349) ................... 3926 Mylinda Dr., San Jose 95132
Harold E. Acree (494) •.••....•.•.•••..•..••.. 38696 Athy St., Fremont 94536

COLUMBIA TEMPLE
William D. Archer (391) ..................•....... Box 603, Tuolumne 95379
George A. Jurgens (491) ....................•... 942 Park St., Alameda 94501
Donald M. Stewart (8) ............. . ..........•........ Chinese Camp 96209
Donald D. Pitman (661) ................... P. 0. Box 306, Angels Camp 95222
John Menzies (24) .........•.................. Shell Station, Mariposa 95328
Phil V. Dybdal (276) ...................•. 2918 Tim Bell Rd., Waterford 96386
Lowell E. Daniels (95) .....•.............. Rt. 1, Box 760, Sutter Creek 95686

YOUTH ACTIVITIES
Lloyd A. Budwig (380) .......•.... 19251 Bushard St., Huntington Beach 92646
Arnold G. Brocksen, Sr. (504), Vice Chairman, South
4472 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 90807
Robert J. Matheison (243), Vice Chairman, North
24766-2nd St., Hayward 94641
William G. Skilling (349) ......... •... ....... 3924 Robley Ter., Oakland 94611
Roy T. Troutman, Jr. (191) .............. 103 Ridgewood Dr., San Rafael 94901
Don E. Worsham (565) •.•............. 1062 N. Highland Ave., Fullerton 92632
Robert A. Miller (57) ••..•.................. P. 0. Box 2187, Santa Rosa 96405
John H. Hardy (352) ...... 3500 W. Manchester Blvd., No. 29, Inglewood 90306
William D. Spruance (744) •......... 2633 Marineview Dr., San Leandro 94577
Clarence G. Rosenstock (22) .•........... . 1838-32nd Ave., San Francisco 94122
Charles W. Conley (503) .•................ 2220 Rumrill Blvd., San Pablo 94806
Leonard H. Moller (630) ......................... 1123 E. Yale, Fresno 93704
Edward H. Millis (382) .................. 5613 Aldama St., Los Angeles 90042
Francis Atkins (674) .................... 17908 Hoffman Ave., Cerritos 90701
Thomas W. Hansen (705) ................ 4528 Santa Rita Rd., Richmond 94803
Robert L. Spinney (353) ...................... 2340 Dolores Ct., Pinole 94564
Karl Neumann (806) ............•......... 1226 Los Angeles Ave., Simi 93065
Rodger J. Page (218) ...........•...•........ 78~ Terry Ln., Livermore 94550
Milton R. Green (523) •................. 6541 Lemon Ave., Long Beach 90805
William Faubion (450) .............. 17190 Armstead St., Granada Hills 91344
Wallace Wright (799) ........................ 6249 Cole St., San Diego 92117
Larrie D. Ayers (632) ........................ 8605 Dent Dr., San Diego 92119
Jarrett E. Starr (486) .................. 2616 Lomita Verde, Bakersfield 93305
Samuel E. Harris (612) .............. 5044 Persimmon Ave., Temple City 91780
Carl L. Parker (603) .................... 880 Appian Way, El Sobrante 94803
Michael S. Hansen (626) •..•.•.............. 626-2nd Ave., Chula Vista 92010
Paul L. Boling (647) ............................ 16602 Falda, Gardena 90249
Gerald Hanson (300) ........................... 305 E. Palm, Redlands 92373
Douglas N. Cairns (207) ................ 17831 Lerene Dr., Yarba Linda 92689

OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES
Benjamin M. Weiss (42) .......•...... 1491 S. Rexford Dr., Los Angeles 90035
Herbert Hargrave, Jr. (467) ................. 8105 Verna Dr., Van Nuys 91402
Julian Wolf (529) ............ 9763 W. Pico Blvd., Rm. 202, Los Angeles 90036
Benjamin Ennis (721) .. ........ . ......... 7027 Colbath Ave., Van Nuys 91405
Dallas V. Roose (626) ..........•......... 224 Kennedy St., Chula Vista 92011

466

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

467

RETIREMENT PENSION PLAN

SPECIAL CODE REVISION COMMITTEE

Guy B. Mize (368) ••••••...••..•.....••••. 1238 Idlewood Rd., Glendale 91202
Edward T. Mancuso (144) ..•...•.•.•. 520 Crestlake Dr., San Francisco 94132
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) ....•.••..•.•. 2431 Capitol Ave., Sacramento 95816
L. Harold Anderson (346) •••.••..••.•.•.••...• 2231 S. Court, Palo Alto 94301
Ralph H. Head (352) ••..•. P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 90054

Harlan p Huebner (445) ......•.....•..• 610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Andrew
Nocas (641) ....•...•. 4044 Via Opata, Palos Verdes Estat;es 90274
John B Watts (637) ...................... 358-20th St., Santa Mo~ca 90402
Allen B. Gresham (348) .•..•..•...... 3028 Muscupiabe, San Bernardino 92405
Richard L. Riemer (778) .•...... 1212 N. Broadway, Suite 204, Santa Ana 92701

INSURANCE

Alfred E. Hopkins (349) •......•.•......•. 1002 Ashmount Ave., Oakland 94610
Hugh J. Cameron (650), Vice Chairmans, SBoutadh
424 . ro way, Rm. 410, Los Angeles 90013

i

PUBLIC INFORMATION
George E. Frank (388) .•.•..•••....• 101 Forest View Dr., San Francisco 94132
John R. McKee (478) .••.•.....•.•..•••••.. 183 Miramonte Dr., Moraga 94556
Elmer C. Gunther (388) .......•...•.....•. 726-15th Ave., San Francisco 94118
John M. Kennedy (723) •••.•.....••.. 3471-A Mt. Diablo Ave., Lafayette 94549
Sidney H. Heller (480) ................... 242 Stantonville Dr., Oakland 94619

CEMETERIES
John R. Wise (391) ......................... P. 0. Box 665, Tuolumne 95379
Basil R. Gillett (124) •.•.•......•....••.•.. 5362 Newland Rd., Paradise 95969
Vincent V. Lake (578) ••........................ 1507 W. Vine St., Lodi 93240
Buck R. Nelson (8) .••..................... P. 0. Box 2390, Sacramento 95811
William E. Bolton (149) ..•............. 506 Lakewood Way, Susanville 96130
John M. Swan (667) •.•.•. ....• •..•......... 1506 Oak Dr., Sp. 49, Vista 92083

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
Robert D. Lintner (169) .•...•.........•. 2087-33rd Ave., San Francisco 94116
Russell G. Worth (480) .•.....•........••.... 5278 Manila Ave., Oakland 94618
C. John Bellman, Jr. (541) .•.......... 3216 Camino Colorados, Lafayette 94549
George Koregelos (61) ........•..•...... 470 Mountain Ave., Piedmont 94611
Stephenson R. Biggart ( 464) ............ 3478 Blackhawk Rd., Lafayette 94549
Lanning F. Spieth (412) .•••.....•.....•.... 42 Las Flories Dr., Calexico 92231
Lewis B. Meek (605) .................... 6367 Church St., Los Angeles 90042
Haig D. Soghomonian (169) .•............ 1925-17th Ave., San Francisco 94116
John P. Russell (557) ......... ... 1535 Artesia Blvd., Manhattan Beach 90245
Stanley A. Butera (545) .... 805 Leavenworth St., Apt. 410, San Francisco 94109
A. T. Kiersch (236) ..•..•.•.. 1959 Golden Rain Rd., No. 8, Walnut Creek 94529
William Kludjian (352) .•••.•••.•...•..•••..•.. 8426 S. Laurel, Whittier 90605
William H. Scott (435), Assistant Librarian
335 Buckingham Way, San Francisco 94127

AUDITING
George T. Rowse (191) •••..•••..•. 2 Valleygreen, Oakmont, Santa Rosa 95405
Reuben E. Gilbert (120) •..•.... 355 Park Plaza Dr., Apt. 314, Daly City 94015
William C. Herbert (188) ••.•.•..•••...•. 115 Russell Dr., Walnut Creek 94598
Vem D. Mabry (375) .•••.•••.•.•..••..•••• 192 Simpson Dr., Daly City 94105
Paul M. Porter (480) ••••.••.•... 429 Sunset Rd., South Shore, Alameda 94501

Warren D. Hanson (435), Vice Chairma1:i1~;,!esita Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Kern H. Copeland, Jr. (535) ••••...•.•.... 4614 Finley Ave., Los Angeles 90027
Niles O. Millar, Jr. (268) .........•...... 1141 W. Barstow Ave., ~o :~~g~
Donald L. Batten (22) ...•........•.....•... 29 Mercury Ave., Tib{f.n 95959
William H. Lambert (13) •...•..•..•••...•. 537 Coyote St., Nevada .ity
Jack Pettit (22) ...... San Francisco Marina Yacht Harbor, San Fra~cis~ 94123
Lloyd R Trout (128) .................... 1826 S. Watson Ave., Visalia 93277
F. Glendon Smythe (422) •••.......•...•... 400 Sequoia Dr., Pasadena 91105
Nick A Vaccariello (685) •..•......•. 824 S. Stoneman Ave., Alhambra 91801
·
)
P O Box 610 Wasco 93280
John H. Brown ( 583 .............. · · ...... · .... · · · ·
i2 Lodi 95240
Charles A. Lewis (256) •.•••••...•..•....... 8832 East Highway ,

CODE COMMISSION
Harlan P. Huebner (445) .........•.. • .•. 610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 9900021744
4044 Via Opata, Palos Verdes Estates
. 90402
Andrew J . Nocas (641) ............
John B Watts (637) ..••.....•.•...•.•...... 358-20th St., Santa Mo~ca
Allen
Gresham (348) .•.•.•........ 3028 Muscupiabe, San Bernardino 92405
Richard. L. Riemer (778) ••.••• 1212 N. Broadway, Suite 204, Santa Ana 92701

B

FILM PROJECTS
Donald Ingalls (542) .......•.....••.•••..•.... 1053 Peninsula, Ventura 93003
William L. Funck (650) .•.••...•.•... 8711 Lankershim Blvd., Hollywood 90028

GRAND LODGE HISTORY PUBLICATION

c• Bushaw("••)
.220 E. Orange Grove Ave., Burbank
l
.,...,.
.. .. .. .. • ..
head 91503
92352
Char'es
Edwin N. Stansel (421) ••..•....••..... P. O. Box 607, Lake Arrow .
Max L. Heyman, Jr. (811) .......... 23800 Bessemer St., Woodl~d Hi.Us 91364
H
w. Coil (635) .................... 3505 Beechwood Pl., Rivei;side 92506
A:der Horne (216) .......... 100 Font Blvd., Apt. 5-L, San Francisco 94127
Consultant:
.r s
Ray Jackson (2) ............................ 1152 Wll is t., R edding 96001
DE MOLAY LIAISON BOARD
Raymond A Ebbage (499) ...•..•..•.... 2431 Capitol Ave., Sacramento 95816
Burton Mey~r, Jr. (358) •..•.......••..... 727 Venice Blv~., Los~~!~! ::~~
Mon Tai Luke (598) ............................ 862 Kil St.,
David H. Terry ••..•........ P. O. Box 2551 Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 90054
Richard L. Braden (40) •..........••....... Rt: 1, ~x 1290H, Elk Gc~S:: ::~~
Edward H. Siems (660) ..•••.••.•.... 1111 Califorma St., San Fran

468

469

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS

Gerald E. Grunert (147) ...........•....•...... P. 0. Box 636, Fortuna 95540
Henry 0. Hall ( 486) ..•..•............ 1751 Los Robles Dr., Bakersfield 93306
Leigh R. Pierce (58) ..•........... • ... 2107 Workshire Rd., Sacramento 95815
William A. Letcher (310) ........••.•.•.... 111 W. Lake St., Mt. Shasta 96064
James F. Boltman (388) ...........••....... 19 Fairmont Dr., Daly City 94015
H. Francis Lewis (192) .................. 416 Los Feliz, Santa Barbara 93105
Robert E. Hilts (327) .....•.... 5280 Atherton St., Apt. 141, Long Beach 90815
Robert T. Dillon (300) ••....•............. 955 Coronado Dr., Redlands 92373
Sam Chadnow (623) ••...•••...•...•...... 9248 Airdrome, Los Angeles 90035
Henry E. Noguchi (625) ............ 3816 Buckingham Rd., Los Angeles 90008
Lon DeBose (181) ....•....•.•.....•.. 123 Sandalwood Ct., Santa Rosa 95404
Phillip Haig (2) ............................. 6265 Pasco Dr., Redding 96001
Richard R. Danover (325) .•.•...•.••. 414 N. Juniper, Apt. 8, Escondido 92025
Fred C. Johansen (204) ...•.......•...... 327 Homestead Ave., Salinas 93901
Donald G. Halderman (700) ............ 243 N. Blackstone Ave., Fresno 93701
Paul M. Hayes (403) ...•.•••••••.•.•....... 3311 Walnut Ln., Lafayette 94549
Robert L. Lawson (790) •.......•..... 1603 Barneston St., Granada Hills 91344
Consultant:
Charles Conrad (16) ••.................•...... 2635 Allen Dr., Auburn 95603

INVESTMENT
Jack F. Bowley (370) ....•................... 94 Melanie Ln., Atherton 94025
Chester R. MacPhee (455) .•................... 450 Fairway Dr., Novato 94947
Robert H. Mason (584) ........ 1933 S. Broadway, Box 276, Los Angeles 90007
Arthur Linsk (529) .................... 6357 Colgate Ave., Los Angeles 90048
John A. Sickenberger (392) ........ Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
M. Richard Andrews (242) ........... 1000 Via Tranquila, Santa Barbara 93105
Advisor:
Paul A. Pflueger (370) .............•.••..... Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104

TAXATION
W. Stanley Davis (144) ..............•... 678-26th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Raymond B. Haizlip (1) .•.......... 2217 Forest View Dr., Hillsborough 94010
Alexander Croce (388) ........... . 333 Santa Clara Ave., San Francisco 94127

BOARD OF CONTROL
Clayton R. Heinz (779) .•..•......... 5576 California Ave., Long Beach 90805
Howard S. Fisher (620) ............ 2465 Calle Almonte, Santa Barbara 93105
Warren W. Wildman (336) ...............•. 1024 Fontana Dr., Alameda 94501
William J. Williams (685) ........•........•.... The Irvine Co., Irvine 92664
John D. Jorgenson (346) .............. 845 Oak Grove Ave., Menlo Park 94025

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
William R. Hervey, Jr. (202) ... . ...... 6404 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
Phil N. Myers (430) ..•.•••.........•. 1812 Trinity Ave., Walnut Creek 94596

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON PUBLICATION BOARD
Lester S. McElwain (403) .•..•...••.. 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Edward H. Siems (560) •............. 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Newcomb Condee, Editor-in-Chief (614) .... 531 N. Rosemore, Los Angeles 90004
Charles C. Hushaw (544), Assistant to the Board
220 E. Orange Grove Ave., Burbank 91503

ENDOWMENT BOARD
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) ..............•. 417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena 91106
Carl A. Green (670) ...................... 13908 E. Sunset Dr., Whittier 90602
William H. Johnson (820) ............. 2540 Vista Baya, Newport Beach 92660
Richard A. Jolly (167) ................ • ..... 37627 Niles Blvd., Fremont 94536
John Steiger (334) ..... • •....••...•.•• 1916 Greenville Dr., West Covina 91790
Thomas K. H. Wong (443) ......••.•...... 1318 Artesian St., Honolulu 96814
Gamet Ringsmith (603) .............•.•.... 30 Donna Way, Oakland 94605
Howard M. Magill (800) .............. 4858 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles 90004
James B. Bouick (139) .•.........•...•.• • . 2704 Hallmark Dr., Belmont 94002
Calvin L. Heim (675) ..•..............•...••. 1316 Payne Ave., Modesto 95351

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Myron E. Smith (394), President ..... 225 Oak Meadow Dr., Sierra Madre 91024
Raymond A. Ebbage (499), Vice-President .2431 Capitol Ave., Sacramento 95816
Ralph H. Head (352) •..... P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 90054
William G. Whelan (403) .................. 1736 Franklin St., Oakland 94612
Robert H. Mason (584) ........•. 1933 S. Broadway, Box 276, Los Angeles 90007
Jack Peloian (383) .............................. P. 0. Box 176, Orosi 93647
L. Harold Anderson (346) ...........•........ 2231 S. Court, Palo Alto 94301
John M. Faulkner (448) •.•...••...•.. • . 106 Appalachian Dr., Martinez 94553
Ralph M. Brown (444) ...•.•......•....• 1670 Cravens Ln., Carpinteria 93013
Donald B. McCaw (449) ••.••....•....••.... 100 Bush St., San Francisco 94104
Burton Meyer, Jr. (358) ...•.......•..•. 727 Venice Blvd., Los Angeles 90015

MASONIC HOME AT DECOTO (Adults)
Hugh B. Herring, Administrator
Mailing address: P. 0. Box 754
Street address: 34400 Mission Boulevard
Union City, Ca. 94587
(415) 471-3434

MASONIC HOME AT COVINA (Children)
James C. Blaine, Administrator
20336 E. Badillo St., Covina 91722
(213) 331-0541

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
(All Brethren listed are Past Masters unless otherwise indicated)

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Ira W. Coburn (216), President ...•.... 2440 Mariposa St., San Francisco 94110
DeWald M. Baum (42), Vice-President .. 9409 W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles 90035
Samuel I. Jacobs (216) ...•......•....•.. 946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
James Craven (770) •.•......•....•. 831 MacArthur Blvd., San Leandro 94577
Otto Rohwer (3) •..•.....••.•.•.•••. • ••.• .•. 1007-7th St., Sacramento 95814
Wayne R. Lee (296) ••••••••••.. 8301 Mission Gorge Rd., No. 13, Santee 92071
William H. Price (259) •.••.....•...•..••.. ••.. P. 0. Box 72, Riverside 92502
GEORGE D. GAVIN, Manager
1111 California Street
San Francisco 94108
776-4702

No. of
Lodge

Represeniatives

Mile.
AUoui.

2
3

F. J. Miller, JW
H. Mueller, GOrg
E. C. Lohmeyer, Imp
V. Bennehoff, P. Cowgill
E. R. Laversin, D. E. Marsh
S. C. Shenk
C. C. Trowbridge, Jr.
G. I. Iverson, SW......... 44.60
R. F. Lewis, M........ ... 17.20
L. F. White, Jr., SW
R. F. Greaves, JW
A. P. Wordlow

5 J. T. Wong, M............

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
John S. Hunt (445), President ...••.•. 3600 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Carl B. Munck (564), 1st Vice-President •.•..••. 5940 Zinn Dr., Oakland 94611
Ralph Fenster (520), 2nd Vice-President
5215 Sepulveda, Unit 4E, Culver City 90230
Paul F. Balck (144), Assistant Treasurer •. 1844-28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Pete B. Florio (823), Assistant Secretary •... 816 Sierra Vista, Alhambra 91801
Laurence E. Dayton (61) .•••...•.••.....•. 5862 Moraga Ave., Oakland 94611
John M. Gordon (202) ..•..••..•..•••. 8446 Amesbury Rd., Los Angeles 90027
M. Richard Andrews (242) ...•.•••.. 1000 Via Tranquila, Santa Barbara 93105
Melvin A. Pixley (584) .•...•.•....•... 3828 E. Slauson Ave., Maywood 90270
Paul S. Boren (551) .................... ...... 1947 Tiffin Rd., Oakland 94602
Mon T. Luke (598) .................... .......... 862 Kil St., Honolulu 96821
Edward H. Rowins (824) •.•••... 239 S. Madison Ave., Apt. 7, Pasadena 91106
James Wortz (259) ..•....... ••••• ....••••••. P. 0. Box 1299, Riverside 92502
Harold L. Hollingsworth (1) ...•.••... 423 Burnett Ave., San Francisco 94131
Robert R. Holt (486) .••..••. •• ......••.. 2705 Akers Road, Bakersfield 93309
Consultant:
Forrest C. Michell ( 403) .........•.••....•.. 1916 Melvin Rd., Oakland 94602

No.of
Lodge

1 H. L Hollingsworth, M .... $

w. c. Kasmire

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

471

8
9

10

12

D. L. Miller, SW
R. King, JW
R. L Sherwood
S. O. K. Sorensen
W. H. Hoefler, SW.. . . . . • .
D. M. Stewart
E. C. Burleson, M. • • • . • • • •
J. I. Taylor, SW

21

D. E. Entrican, SW
M. C. Grigg, JW
R. V. Anderson
M. R. Wilson
R. L. Zehrbach
K. F. Hee, M. • • • • • • • • • . • 285.09

26.20
24.00

K.. L. Cleveland, JW
R. Wiiliams, M. . . . . . . . . . • 10.00
C. llink, SW
W. H. Williams, JW

23

L. B. Mark, lnsp
R.L. Wmg
R. N. Yarborough, M .....

24
9.40

C. Kernan, Insp
R. F. Atwood, H. W. Cllil
H.B. McCormick
F. E. Munson
H. L. Schaffner
C. A. Tibbils
13 W. H. Lambert, SW .. . . . . . 29.60
H E. C. Owen, M........... 9.00
G. E. Bonbright, SW
R. R. Howlett, JW
H. 0. Downey, J. J. Wallace
16 R. A. Griffiths, SW. .. . • . • • 24.00
S. W. Tanner, JW
R. E. Harris

25

26

27
30

R. Oesterman, M
H. Pardeilhan, SW
A. L. Armand, lnsp

38.80
15.60

J. W. Willis, M..... •• . . • •

22

J. A. Presley, JW

A. P. Baylacq
C. G. Gulbengay
B. Pasdermadjian, J. Smith
R. E. Vahle, Sr., M........
D. I. Asher, JW. . . . . . . . . . .
L. C. Boyd, SW
R. L. Snyder

Mile.
AUoui.

20

7.20

L. W. Mead, SW

17

18
19

Representatives

32
33

17.20

W. S. N. Au, SW
J. D. Pringle, lnsp
Frederick Bolte
J. Q. Manini, M
E. Isley, SW
L. R. Frichette
R. Mohr, Jr.
J. A. Mord, Jr.
LE. Patton
C. G. Rosenstock
0. G. Voight
W.R. Camey, M. • . •• •.• . • 28.60
W. N. Patterson, SW
E. Farley, Imp
A. Porter, SW. • • • . • • • • . • • 33.00
C. R. Smith, lnsp
C. A. Lantz
G. H. Schlein, M. . . . . . . . • . 27 .60
E. L. Day, SW
H. L. Sawyer, JW
A. E. Lampe, J.C. Seiler
E. H. Ellison, M. . . . . . . . . . 26.40
R. E. Castberg, SW
G. W. Highley, JW
R. 0. West, JGD
F. E. Hicks, Jr., SW....... 52.80
P. A. Walters, M
M. P. Cerisier, SW
L. L Aslanian
R. H. Bradley
V. L Bruno, J. Icardi
N. G. Michelini
R. W.Moore
C. K. Harder, Jr., M....... 22.80
Not represented

472

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

Mile.
No.of
AUow.
Lodge
Representatives
35 L. C. Fink, Jr., M .•••.• .• 104.40

Dale W. Hatter , JW
A. Fulkerson, Sr.
G. E. Pledger
F. J. H. Rickon
37 E. Carroll, SW .•.•.•• •••.• 63.40
38 C. A. Cowart, SW ..•.••• •• 14.40
R. B. Williams, JW
R. L Mayfield, A. J. Thorp
E.W. Trefts
40 D. C. Christenson, M ..••• .H.20
M. R. Livingstone, SW
L.A. Lasell, Sr., Insp
H.F. Benning, R. L. Braden
R. G. Crowdis, B. D. Minter
41 H. A. McClure, SW •....•• • 6.80
D. E. Grieve, JW
W. O'Neill, E. C. Webb
42 S. B. Kravitz, M ...... .... 80.60
L. Linkon, JW
C. C. Lau, SW
D. M. Baum, GMar
E. A. Fromsky
P. L. Goldstein
M. Schwartzman
J. D. Weisberg
43 J. Ray, SW ...... ...... .. 26.00
44 R. Schmidt, SW
W. Chappell, JW
R. E. Clark, I. J. Robertson
H. S. Swierstra
G. M. Travis
G. H. Wierda
45 L. F. Smallwood, ER ...... 73.80
46 L. H. Buchhiester, SW •.••• 18.00
50 R. W. Prater, SW ....... .. 34.00
51 W. M. Weber, M .•••••• •• 27.20
55 F. X. Wendling, M ..•••.• • 9.80
D. D. Strachan, SW
H. L. Swank, JW
K. M. Battelle
L. M. Frawley
R. F. Grindle, E.G. Long
56 C. W. Barnett, ER •.••••• • 28.60
57 L von der Mehden, M .•.•• 10.80
R. V. Escola, Jr., SW
K. R. Gilbert, JW
H. P. Adams, Insp
W. H. Daniels
L. G. Danskin
J. L. Durnford, R. A. Miller
E.L.Sw anson ,C.C.W arren
58 A. M. Reiss, M ...... ..... 17.20

No.of
Lodge

Representative1

Mile.
AUow.

B. J. McKinnis, SW
L. D. Armstrong
L. R. Pierce
W. A. Revitt, R. C. Ryan
W. E. Zimmerman
59 P. R. Tbygesen, SW •••••• . 34.60
60 F. W. Ader, SW ....... ... 44.80
61 L. T. Both, SW
]. N. Mann, JW
L. E. Dayton, PGM
F. W. Nordhausen
C. A. Severin
R. Winters
22.00
64 J. Bergen, SW
E. Thorne, JW
65 W. E. Fish, SW ....... .... 26.20
68 G.D. Carver, M •••••• .••• 15.60
W. H. Legg, SW
J. T. Kelley, Insp
B. L. Faunce
70 Not represented
76 D. D. Pitman, ER .•.•••. • 28.00
78 L. I. Pinard, ER ....... .. 25.00
79 W. C. Pieper, SW ....... .. 56.80
J. M. Bowersox, GBB
M. E. Ott
80 P. M. Mecum, Insp
H. L. Coney
81 M. G. Fletcher, SW ....... 16.80
J.M. Cleary, C. E. Patton
84 D. W. Rose, SW ....... ... 37.20
87 E. L. Poteat, M ...... ..... 6.20
C. M. Beaman, SW
J. P. Tunnell, JW
J. J. Nicholas, Insp
E. L. Baehr, M. C. Baker
L. L. Beetle, J. K. Cothran
L. G. Dickinson, A. Mecredy
M. C. Nelson, J. Olson
A. L. Parlet, R. R. Prigge
B. Wichels
89 G. W. Busbey, SW ....... . 27.80
H.H. Roy,J W
B. G. May
91 M. Reed, M ...... ...... .. 66.40
93 J. Wichels, M ....... ...... 13.20
F. D. Hall, SW
M. Seras, JW
95 G. Reynolds, M .•••••. •••• 26.00
L. E. Daniels, SW
98 J. D. Glidden, SW •.•.•.• • 40.60
E. C. Kempf, JW
J. G. Glidden, R. W. Loring

...........

Mile.
No.of
AUow.
Representatives
Lodge
99 S. K. Brantley, Jr., M .•..• 25.60

No.of
Lodge

Representativu

473
Mile.
AUow.

W. E. Caldwell, SW
E. S. Mcintyre, JW
W. N. Sorensen, SW
M. N. Tarasoff, M ....... .. 33.00
124
R. W. Arnold, JW
B. R. Gillett
D.R. Fretz
E. E. Edwards, JW .....•. . 11.00
126
29.80
101 R. H. Lynn, Sr., JW .......
H. G. Friedrich, M
127
T. J. Edwards
F. M. Fuchs, SW
103 C. D. Johnson, SW ....... • 29.60
J. Menches, JW
L. G. Clayton, JW
M. Schredl, Insp
D. K. Baldwin, Insp
F. Deubert, 0. Goebel
S. K. Parker
A.G. Matthes
83.20
..
.......
M
g,
Spaldin
L.
104 L.
W. C. Mkhal k, M ....... .. 44.80
128
C. J. Ballard, SW
H. B. Fink, Jr., SW
D.R. McCauley, JW
W. E. Kaiser, JW
J. L. Craven, Insp
D. G. Creager, J. B. Lawson
nsen
M. W. Christe
J. C. Pannell
T. R. Richardson
F. R. Fapp, Jr.
129
R. C. Ridenour
131 R. Monk, SW .•....• ...... 19.00
D. L. Shively
J. Luce, JW
58.40
106 M. A. Doggett, ER ....... .
132 Not represented
T. T. Morgan
134 G. E. Justice, ER .....•. .. 10.80
J.E. Morton, Jr.
W. W. Wilcox, Jr.
18.00
110 R. C. Clark, M ....... .....
135 A. E. Downer, M ....... .. 18.60
A. Petroutsas, JW
R. W. Lewallen, Insp
P. A. Buob, Insp
136 R. A. Krug, Insp
A. F. Edwards
A. A. Axelrod, S. C. Levin
32.40
H. W. Ross, L. Rubin
111 E. S. Stephens, M ....•.. .•
M. E. Sharpe, JW
139 B. S. Atkins, M
W. G. Martin, SW
J. A. Affteck, SW
T. Meriam, PGM
W. J. Harlow, Jr., JW
E. C. Arbuckle
A. E. Allen, Sr.
R. A. Anderson
J.B. Bouick
C. S. McGlothlin
J.B. Smith
21.40
D. Mellinger
112 J. R. Hilton, SW ....... ...
R. T. Spencer
113 W. L. Billings, M
17.60
140 H. G. Shumway, SW ...•.•
J. L. Moreland, SW
Clark
G.
C.
B.
Carter,
17.20
W.R.
...
117 T. W. Cole, SW .......
141 Not represented
S. I. Bonn, Insp
143 R. E. Burgd, Insp
M
um,
120 K. C. Birnba
144 J . F. Vollers, SW
W. L. Rothenberg, SW
P. F. Balck, W. S. Davis
H. Muscat, JW
P. G. Fairlie, G.D. Gavin
R. A. Klinger, Insp
J. D. Hansen, C. T. Hecker
I. A. Berliner, I. Betz
E. T. Mancuso, T. R. Smiley
nd
H. W. Cahn, L. I. Gold.ki
J. C. Wiesner
M. W. Greene
J. Pass, M ....... ....... . 10.40
145
d
Harban
M. A.
J. Lamar, JW
Katz
J.
B.
B. J. Hartm an,
146 E. Marcheschi, SW ....••. • 23.40
I. C. Mintz, H. S. Simon
147 Not represented
L. J. Simon, A. I. Stoll
E. R. White, SW ....... ... 54.00
149
C. L. Weeks
E. G. Van Tassell, !Dllp
122 D. P. Halstead, Jr., Insp
150 V. R. Brown, SW ....... .. 34.40
R. M. Hinds, Insp
E. H. Ayers
123 J. L. Conger, M ....... .... 14.00

474
No.of

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

Mile.

Lodge
Representatives
AUow.
156 E. D. Davis, M ..•••.• .... 16.20
W. 0. Rose, SW
T. R. Stokesber ry, JW
E. C. Still
161 A. E. Buss, M .•.••..•• ••. 23.00
164 J. R. Lamb, ER ..••• ••... • 41.20
166 R. Steffen, M
L. R. Lamb, SW
G. J. Mann, JW
D. R. Griffith
J. C. Kohlbecher
H. F. Luttick.en
E.G. Marshall
R. Taylor
167 T. Parker, M .. ....••... • .• 6.60
R. Amaral, SW
J. Vance, JW
D. A. Barrett, W. Beck
D. Ferguson, R. A. Jolly
168 H. L. Pope, M . ....•• .••
S.20
T. E. Bohling, SW
E. D. Webster, JW
D. Adam, W. L. Henry
169 R. E. Stephenson, M
A. L. Bass, SW
G. K. Buss, JW
R. Batchelor, R. A. Hebert
R. D. Lintner, R. J. Shuman
H. D. Soghomonian
173 W. J. Dell, M .•..•.•.• •.. 20.00
P. K. Frame
174 G. W. Ludwig, ER .••••... 2S.40
175 R. C. Stokes, M ...••.••• •• 9.20
E. Cornett, SW
178 R. C. Chambless, M ...• .•. 90.80
N. D. Altimus, SW
G. W. Whelchel
179 W.W. Huntting , SW ...... 31.20
180 E. J. Picray, M ......... .. 7.60
R. E. Spitzer, SW
D. Escamillo, JW
W. B. King, S. C. Olmsted
181 C. C. Clemons, SW ........ 12.60
J. W. Wright, lnsp
182 Not represented
183 J. E. Page, SW ......... .. 21.40
184 Not represented
185 A. R. Richardson, ER ..• .. 2S.80
186 W. A. Krueger, Insp
187 G. W. Goris, SW ......... 16.00
P. F. Harralson
188 K. M. Abshire, M
E. A. Freije, SW

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

No.of

Lodge

Representoti1Jes

Mile.

AUow.

R. D. Barbee, JW
W. H. Nutting, Jr., lll!p
V. D. Arnold
L. Price Boyles
L. H. Landre, J. Weldon
190 K. E. George, SW •.••••••• 46.00
191 J. W. Hill, M
J. A. Mattson, SW
H. A. Gulbransen
W.W. Honeyma n
J. C. Meagor, G. T. Rowse
C.F.Tho mas
R. T. Troutman , Jr.
192 H. D. Vosburgh, M .•...•. 68.00
R. M. Davenpo rt, SW
A. B. Fox, JW
H. F. Lewis, A. L. Page
193 R. N. Petersen, SW ••••.•. S4.80
194 E. S. Black, M ......... .. 7.40
J. Jennings, SW
H. Ziegler, JW
G. C. Gilliam, W. Grubb
195 R. E. Tutt, M .•.••.••• ••. 13.40
196 J. E. Hillard, ER •••••.••• 44.80
198 E. M. Eklund, M ••••..••• 8S.OO
R. R. Towell, SW
J.C. Gonzalez, JW
E. L. McLachla n
J. R. Molloy
199 R. J. Cramer, SW •......•. 24.60
G. deGhetaldi, Insp
W.A. Binns
200 G. Eden, M .• •• .••••• ..• • 38.20
J. E. Pilley, JW
201 E. Rohwer, M ......•.• ••• 13.00
C.D.Ary , SW
F. T. Stevens
202 H. A. Ryan, M .•...•.•. ..• 80.60
R. L. Hart, SW
R. E. Close, JW
J. M. Gordon, R. C. Hart
W.R. Hervey, Jr.
J. L. Nelson
H. E. Sargent
D. W. Wheeler
203 D. Johnson, JW ......... . 21.00
204 C. F. Hushbeck., Sr., M •••• 21.60
F. 0. Emlay, Jr., SW
A. E. Price, JW
205 V. R. Guidera, M .•••• •••• .. 33.60
206 V. M. Bjorklund , M .••.••• 18.20
J. T. Ross, SW
W. L. Burd, Insp

Mile.

No.of

AUow.
Represenwtwes
Lodre
207 J. Megas, M .•.••..•. . · ··• 86.20
W. A. Hughes, SW

208 M. W. McKarley, M . · · · • • 13.60

S. Leutholtz , SW
B. E. Nelson, JW
H. C. Brown, Insp
A. A. Scott
209 L. G. McCall, SW •••.. • • . · 46.40
E. S. Nelson, JW
c. J. Weir, Jr., lnsp
210 E. R. Kiesel, M .•••••••• • 10.00
B. Wilson, SW
J . S. Gai, JW
L. A. Campbell
C.H. Nelson
R. L. Norton, R. E. Snyder
W. P. Truran
F. E. VonDorst en
211 p. Floyd, JW •••••.• · · • · · · 19.00
212 J.B. Hill, SW
R. D. Gyllenskog, II, JW
R.Fernan dez,F.Fil ippo
C. H. Kramer, C. J. Palmer
J. W. Price
214 J. W. Joe, Jr., M .•...•• .• 73.20
J. B. Collins, SW
R. A. Jeffery, JW
E. R. Brown, Insp
L. Hachtma nn, H. V. Keir
H. L. Maynard
215 P . G. Biano, M
K. H. McKnigh t, SW
J. W. Walton, JW
H. A. Miller, lnsp
W. Crock.et
216 A. L. Barden, M
L. C. Ching, SW
G. F. Olague, JW
I. W. Coburn, PGM
S. I. Jacobs
217 S. Cicin, M ......... ...... 23.40
218 N. W. Jacobson , M. · · • · · · • 8.00
R. A. Otto, SW
C. Black, JW
H. S. Bowman, S. L. Evans
R. J. Page
220 R. S. Turrell, M. • · • • · .. • · • 83.60
J. R. Johnson, JW
221 L. J. Sluyter, M ........ • · • 86.00
N. T. Bell, SW
J.E. Baxter, JW

No.of

475
Mile.

AU010.
Represenwtives
Lodge
222 A. A. Jonas, M .•••.. ·••· • 20.80

D. W. Hynie, JW
C.L. Duncan
224 G. H. Cremeans, M · · · · • · · · S7.80
J. Curran, II, SW
R. D. Watson, JW
J. C. Carpenter , Insp
J. C. Mitchell
225 E. W. Johnson, M
R. G. Arp, SW
E. L. Izard, JW
R.F.And erson
I. A. Bremner
226 H. M. Davies, M
R. Schmidt, SW
H. M. Porter, JW
J . T. Estoll, G. E. Watts
228 W. P. Estes, SW •..••.••. • 14.40
C. A. Heumphr eus, JW
R. R. Haussler
229 W. D. Mysktl, "1 ......... • 6.20
G. E. Eskew, SW
W. A. Myska, JW
P. J. Billings, A.G. Espinosa
F. M. Fralick., H. Gee
G. A. Heinzman
D. H. Macl.ean
H. A. l.iini, Jr.
R. H. Nivarel
W. D.Peden
E. B. Pierce, Jr.
D. C. Robison
E. N. Sanders
230 C. W. Robinson, Jr., SW··· 26.80
J. L. Hammon , JW
C. B. Campbell
231 Not represented
232 J. C. Baker, SW ..... ····• SS.SO
233 T. G. Tamagni, M ... • • • • · 14.80
J. Closterman, SW
A. J. Friedlund , JW
234 R. A. Scolari, ER. • • • • · • • • Sl.00
235 Not represented
236 L. R. Abel, SW ........ · • • 20.60
R. E. Weaver, JW
C. N. Matsen
237 H. F. Mcintosh , SW····· ·· 47.20
J. O. Elliott
240 M. C. Totman, M .••.• • · • • 24.80
J. Lee, JW
M. H. Totman
E. L. Watson

476

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
AUow.
241 N. Mullen, M ......••....• 87.00

R.H. Cliff, SW
L. A. Branch, JW
242 W. J. Ewing, SW .......... 68.00
S. G. Harris, JW
M. R. Andrews
A. Brotherton
243 J. C. Speight, M .....•.... 5.40
M. L. Runolfson, JW
A. R. Fleming, Insp
H. J. Keim, R. J. Matheison
W. T. Smith, A. F. Taylor
C.H. Welsh
244 W. L. Misner, M
W. B. Harp, JW
R. M. Webb, Insp
A. A. Campbell
A.H. Gawne
T. F. Miller
S. P. Vasilovich
245 W. Rehm, ER .••..•.....• 29.20
246 H. B. Goodpasture, M .•..• 87.20
R. S. Laney, SW
R. M. Lillie, JW
E. C. Lowe, Insp
K. E. Himmler
247 D. C. Westerhout, M ...... 36.60
J.P. Montgomery, SW
H. E. Kind.water, JW
G. Hiatt, W. H. Towne
248 Not represented
250 C. E. Hawkins, M ...•.•.• 64.20
253 C. M. Fugate, M ......... 15.60
C. E. Spearin, JW
A. L. Hayes, Insp
254 K. Elder, M ......••....•• 43.40
W. H. Schooler, Insp
D. Brent, D. C. McRae
G. W. Sturm
255 G. C. Hill, SW ............ 42.60
256 J.P. Murphy, M .......... 18.80
W. O. Johnson, SW
B. T. Howard, JW
G. L. Christensen, Insp
C. A. Lewis
258 H. N. T. Bowden, Jr., M .•. 22.80
F. C. Bishop, SW
R. A. Skellenger, JW
M. E. Pedlar
259 M. W. Holsinger, M ..•.... 92.00
N. B. Mackay, SW
W. H. Price, SGW
S. L. Channon, Insp

No.of
Lodge

Mile.

Representatives

AUow.

B. C. Morton
E. E. Stockebrand
260 F. W. Alger, Sr., M
W. A. Burkett, SW
J. J. Putman, JW
U. G. Patropulos, AGL
E. S. Hopp, PGM
R. E. Soracco, Insp
L. F. Anderson
GA. Benoit
B. L. Canning
S. J. Dean, Jr.
F. H. King
G. H. Konstantopoulos
E. M. Pavlou
A. C. von Konsky
B. C. von Konsky
261 W. E. Owens, ER .•••.••.• 22.80
262 G. L. Bullard, M .......... 57.40
J. W. Paulson, Jr., JW
264 T. G. Verbryke, SW ••••.•• 47.20
R. J. Newell, JW
J. D. Wilkins, Insp
P. C. Reiner, D. E. Thomas
265 W. P. Romer, ER ...•...•• 31.00
267 A. E. Peterson, SW ..•..•.. 17.60
D. L. Davy, JW
268 M. R. Koontz, M
O. J. Brown, SW
C. L. Dewitt, JW
N. 0. Millar, I119p
M. L. Jory, C.R. Ratkovich
269 Not represented
271 C. A. Butler
272 R. F. Taylor, M ........... 82.20
R. M. Mecham, SW
H. M. Kennedy, JW
273 F. L. Holmgren, M ........ 84.00
K. W. Nutzmann, SW
R. Prusso, JW
H. E. Corson, D. Inskeep
B. R. Mooney
R. L. Williams
274 R. G. Colson, SW ......... 49.60
C. L. Nourse, JW
275 D. A. Pitts, SW ........... 19.00
L. E. Tartini, JW
P. V. Dybdal
277 H. E. Hiraoka, SGS
278 M. L. Howard, M .....•.•• 82.20
A. C. Ross, JW
279 J. R. Maddox, JW ••••.•.• 42.80
280 L. Gabrielson, SW ••.....• 32.20

Mile.
No.of
AUow.
Representatives
Lodge
281 J. Hein, SW .............. 41.20
282 G. D. MacGregor
283 R. A. Pinson, Jr., SW ••.••• 105.20

J. C. White, JW
R. H. Beetlestone
R. P. Clark
286 J.B. Cook, SW ••.•..••..• 40.60
R. L. Marshall, GSB
P. L. Turner, Insp
287 J. H. Fuller, M .••...•••.• 77.00
J. Martin, Jr., SW
W.W. Paitridge, Insp
288 Not represented
289 C. T. Thompson, SW ...... 94.40
L. C. Beers
290 J.C. Lyons, M ........... 80.60
K. F. Oertel, SW
J. A. Crosby
291 E. F. Griffin, SW ......... 76.40
E. M. Shively
292 G. E. Pollard, Jr., M ....•• 10.60
D. L. Schuster, SW
0. W. Barrier, JW
293 T. Lowe, M .............. 86.60
D.R. Raney, SW
W. Daddario, JW
J. R. Craft, lnsp
M. W. Gould
294 R. N. Rouch, ER .••.••.••• 40.60
295 N. L. Richardson, M ..•.•• 13.80
A. Gon1iotti, SW
D. D. Orton, JW
C. L. Wadlow
296 J. W. Laster, M .•••.•••••• 104.40
S. L. Cross, SW
W. R. Coddington, JW
E. M. Newton, AGL
R. Lee
297 H. G. Morgan, JW ....•..• 54.20
299 R. J. Miklica, M .......... 9.00
C. R. Zercher, SW
A. H. Smith, JW
B.R.Seamans
300 G. W. Hanson, SW ..•..••• 92.00
K. Dowell, lnsp
R. T. Dillon, C. F. Patton
301 H. C. Eader, M ...•••••••• 86.80
W. E. Malson, SW
A. L. Hatfield, JW
E. R. Gilbertson, Insp
302 N. B. Anastas, SW ........ 30.20
G. A. Doyle, JW
R. C. Grim, F. Y. Mar

w.

477

Mile.
No.of
AUow.
Representatives
Lodge
303 G. R. Todd, M ............ 49.80

C. W. Allison, SW
D. G. Farquharson, JW
R. F. Herrold
304 D. S. Powell, Insp
305 E. F. Pfonner, SW ...•...• 85.00
W. D. Evans, JW
306 H. A. Smith, II, SW ....... 92.40
J. T. Barton, JW
L. H. Riggins
307 D. C. Schmidt, M .•.....•• 80.20
G. W. Thrasher, JW
A. F. Schub
R. C. Van Aken
308 W. C. Patterson, JW ...... 83.60
C.E.Aery
309 R.H. Kay, M ............ 51.80
W. J. Taylor, Jr., Insp
310 S. Hopkins, ER ........... 56.00
312 Not represented
313 G. W. Mitchell, M .•.••••• 66.20
C. E. Rogers, SW
P. D. Marx, W.R. Porter
314 B. J. Talbert, SW .•••••.•. 90.00
L. E. Brookshier, JW
R. G. Smith, Insp
L. C. McNutt
P. J. Nylander
G. H. Palmer
K. M. Rycraft
315 E. D. Weaver, SW .•••..••• 83.60
L. P. Provence, JW
J.B. Parker
316 C. E. Armstrong, M .••..•• 39.60
T. A. Stevens, SW
317 J. E. Collins, SW .......... 101.00
M. A. Ensminger, Insp
319 0. Balzer, M .•..•..••••.•• 80.60
C. D. Roberts, SW
R. D. Linke, JW
G. C. Lawson
T. J. Owens, Jr.
320 E. Frick, M .............. 80.60
P. S. Esquivel, SW
W. F. Cominolo
M.A. Green
D.H. Terry
321 Not represented
322 R. F. Rock, M •.••....•••• 82.00
T. C. Casacky, SW
C. J. Pierce, JW
E. S. Higbie

478

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.of
Lodge

Mile.
Representalives
AlloU1.
323 R. W. Ramlow, M .••.••. •• 82.60
M. ]. Boyak, SW
F. ]. Easley, Jr., JW
324 A. A. Di Sandro, M .•••••. 82.20
R. L. Villalobos, SW
E. H. Rowins
325 R. L. Matlock, M ......... 101.60
W. ]. Frazee, SW
R. R. Johnson, JW
R. R. Danover
L. N. Turrentine
326 G. 0. King, M ........... 113.80
327 W. L. Tyra, M ..••.••••••• 85.80
J. W. Gaddis, III, SW
R. G. Polhill JW
G. P. Calderwood
R. E. Hilts
H. G. Van Dyke
328 B. F. Eyer, SW .•••••••••• 82.80
H. M. Carlisle, JW
D. J. Shoemaker, Insp
G. S. Fairbrother
R. L. Tucker
329 N. Hosni, SW •••••••••••• 80.60
J. Vieillemaringe, JW
J.C.Bourguignon,Insp
A. Caen
330 C. E. Baker, SW. • • • • • • • • • 325.95
A. K. Bell, C. C. Tong
331 W. W. Willoughby, M ..••• 24.40
R. T. Bratty, SW
332 G. E. Hendrick, M ••.••••• 86.00
A. N. English, JW
M. Perdok
333 F. ]. Moss, ]W ........... 59.00
33( W. R. Bergener, Jr., M •••• 85.20
F. W. Haynes, SW
A. H. Snyder, Ill, JW
J. Steiger
335 J. S. Goldberg, SW ••••.••• 80.60
H. Rabin,JW
336 A. E. Weir, M
H. E. Harris, SW
L. N. Farn!D, JW
B. 0. Young, AGL
Hansford
J.
R. C. Horstmann
H. K. Taylor, D. A. Turpin
W.W. Wildman
337 J.C. Grant, ER ••••••••••• 5.60
338 W. M. Aye, SW •••••.••••• 98.QC\
R. M. Cox, JW

w.

No.of
Mlle.
Lodge
Representatives
AlloU1.
339 E. Medoff, M .... ......... 86.00
D. R. Alexander, SW
R. F. Lamb, JW
W. L. Currie
341 R. F. Walters, M .••..• • •• 75.20
J. P. Martin, SW
J. J. Ritch, Insp
R. E. Jones
343 J. R. Winslow, M ..••••••• 75.60
W. E. Dotson, SW
J. E. Eddings, JW
W. L. Bacon
344 R. ]. Silverman, M
P. L. Maslov, SW
L. Becker, Insp
C. Becker, L. T. Goldmeyer
M.N.Howe,B.A.Kau
A. M. Lesser, A. Salomon
H. L. Wayne
345 R. P. Armstrong, M .••• .•. 11.20
G. R. Washington, SW
346 K. D. Corley, M ...•.••••• 6.40
W. F. Groshart, SW
H. H. Wagener, JW
L. H. Anderson, PGM
J. F. Roberts, lnsp
H. C. Green, V. H. Hansen
J. D. Jorgenson
H. E. Simons
347 G. P. Pierce, M
T. A. Carroll, SW
J. C. McPherson
H. R. Moore
P. Slavazza
348 F. P. Weatherford, M ••••• 90.80
0. E. Watt, SW
A. N. Schmiu, Insp
F. L. Bittke, J. H. Bulmer
F. M. Campbell
G. M. Cellar
A. B. Gresham
W. M. Rainbolt
349 G. W. Nelson, M
B. K. Hoit, JW
D. W. Besoain
G. C. Courreges
F. D. Gatter, J. W. Proctor
H. S. Savage, W. G. Skilling
351 W. S. Britton, M ......... 80.60
J. A. Boyle, lnsp
B. R. Jordan

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~

Mlle.
AlloU1.
Represenlatives
352 B. 0. Kearney, M ••••••••• 80.60
F. D. Power, SW
R. McPeek, JW
] • Chackerian
J. B. Didlake
H. R. Hall, J. H. Hardy
R.H. Head
W. M. Ketteringham
W. Kludjan, R. V. Sutton
353 R. Silva, R. L. Spinney
355 D. L. Moyer, M ••••••••••• 79.20
H. Weisshaar, SW
V. H. Baldwin, JW
L. E. Anderson, PGM
W. H. Beaudry
]. R. Davison
E. H. Gebhardt, F. Green
H. J. Wolking
356 C. W. Crowe, SW
J. L. Oliveira, JW
R. D. Jackson
H. A. Ronning
B. A. Stocking, F. A. Wilson
357 C. Rogers, M .•••••••••••• 84.60
M. Jones, SW
H. Duff, E. A. Robinson
J. W. Willis
358 D. W. Litsinger, M ........ 80.60
J. S. Papp, SW
S. R. Evans, JW
B. Meyer, Jr., GOrt
C. O. Smith, lnsp
H. A.McFrye
359 Not Represented
360 M.Dudum,M
R. M.Johnson, SW
Y. N. Winthers, JW
A. F. Enderlin, R. W. Haun
K. W. Hinkle
E. C. Mathisen
H. D. Oliphant
M. T. Simmons
361 L. Channel, JW ........... 33.20
362 W. G. Jory, M ............ 9.80
M. L. Coffelt, SW
R. C. Weymouth, JW
J. R. Forster
F. W. Mitchell
W. H. Scott
363 0. E. Wightman, M
W. P. Ralph, SW
L. Lambert, JW
S. A. Barakoa

No.of
Lodge

No.of
Lodge

Represntalivu

c. w. Crocker

479
Mile.
AlloU1.

O. E. McLean, L. C. Moore
C. J. Sly, R. Stanley
365 R. Simon, M .••••••..•••• 28.00
J.E. Braswell, JW
366 G. W. Pope, M ••••••••..• 36.60
R. Saroyan, SW
P. L. Lewis, JW
S. M. Pavlovich, lnsp
A. R. Addington
A.D. Dadmun
N. S. Foley, G. C. Holstein
367 L. C. Newsom, M ••••••••• 82.60
H. G. DeGolia, SW
G. E. Harris, JW
368 G. B. Mize, PGM •••••.••• 80.00
A. F. Simmons, ER
369 L. 0. Allen, M .•••••••••.• 80.20
N. B. Creek, SW
N. M. Schulu, JW
J. O. Anderson, W. T. Bet...
H. A. Dumas, T. B. Fach
E. H. Guess, D. B Hoffman
E. E. Mcilvain
Willard G. Scott
W.D. Tucker
370 R. L. Sanderson, M
R. E. Hawthorne, SW
P.A. Pflueger, PGTreas.
E.W. Bode
H. 0. Hammerich
A. C. Kuersten, E. Leong
U. D. Mackins, D. R. Stall
371 F. H. Overstreet, SW..... . 285.09
C. H. McAllister, Imp
G. H. Batten, J. C. Simpson
A.H. Strike
372 C. Dailey, Jr., M ......... 83.40
L. Forehand, JW
R. E. Crist, Insp
J. T. Harris
373 D. E. Wayment, M .•••.••• 80.60
J. M. Tomlinson, SW
H.J. Taylor, JW
E. W. Branaum, lnsp
H. E. Kultalahti
374 J. W. Cruickshank, Jr., M
G. D. Omran, SW
L.B. Gagliardi, JW
J. H. Adams, P. Bovero
R. Elder, R.H. Johnston
375 J. H. Dwyer, M
J. F. Harrop, SW

480

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
V. D. Mabry, JW
E. K. Bender, J. H. Conner
J. W. Halley, G. H. Pape
C. R. Trethewey
376 D. E. Strand, M
J. T. Wilson, SW
K. D. Knight, JW
E. L. Almquist
F. J. deLarios
B. J. Hjerpe, J. R. Mose
E. A. Sandberg
377 L. K. Foglesong, SW .••..•• 84.20
D. A. Newcomb, Jr., JW
W. E. Haynie
378 Tenney E. Blake, M .•...• 80.60
F. P. Polee, SW
W. Bragulla, JW
G. W. Perkins, AGL
R. B. Montgomery, lnsp
379 O. W. Haase, M ....•.••.•. 78.40
U.S. Starnes
380 A. L. Budwig, M ...••.•..• 89.20
W. D. Lunden, SW
E.M.Johnson,JW
L. A. Budwig, M. Tinsley
381 G. R. Larson, SW ......... 97.60
J. A. Smith, JW
382 D. M. Moody, SW ........ 80.60
W. C. Hoffman, JW
383 O. A. White, SW .......... 41.80
J. K. Gong, JW
J. Peloian
384 A. E. Dufresne, M ........ 123.20
G. F. Keating, SW
E.W. Heald, PGM
R. C. Reeder, N. P. Tester
385 N. J. Hein, SW .•..•.•••.• 42.20
387 W. L. Horine, SW .•••..•.• 41.60
F. W. Spear
388 W. W. Albright, M
G. E. Frank, SW
R. B. Mellard, JW
C.H. Allen, J. F. Boltman
R. D. Cobb, G. K. Crandall
J. E. Finley, Jr.
E. C. Gunther
K. E. Hopper, J. F. Palmer
R. E. Petersen
H. D. Robertson
J. M. Ruggiero
F. W. Traveny
W. D. Verbarg, E. J. Willig

No.of
Lodge

Mile.
Representatives
Allow.
389 J. L. Jolley, M .•.••.•••.. 85.80
H. C. Hulse, SW
W. H. Kunkel, JW
C. J. Morrett, C. F. Wallace
390 R. B. Rowe, SW ...•..•.•• 121.20
391 W. H. Fiske, AGL ..•...•.. 27.80
L. L. Hodge, ER
W. D. Archer, J. R. Wise
392 E. H. Knee, M .....••. ...• 80.60
M. D. Rosenberger, JW
J. A. Sickenberger
393 P. C. Hjort, SW
D. F. Holmgren, JW
H. French, Insp
H. Beuster, D. M. Guire
H. N. Olsen, 0. A. Swansen
394 M. E. Smith, PGM .•••..•• 84.60
K. E. DeHaven, ER
F. W. Morris
395 c. Nuckolls, SW ..••••••• 20.80
C. Goodman, JW
396 J. L. Pancake, M
D. J. Safriet, SW
397 J.M. Hefner, M .......... 81.60
D. W. Line, SW
E. B. Cammack, JW
399 G. A. Leach, M .....•..•.. 10.00
E. V. Rawlinson, SW
R. H. Gilbert, JW
W.E. Brown
H. E. Van Arsdale
400 W.W. Callow, M
B. E. White, SW
W. A. White, JW
W. G. Ferguson
W. B. Taylor
401 S. M. Giovannelli, M
S. Barry, SW
L. B. Locke, JW
C. W. Bishop, E. C. Lamp
402 J. J. Wells, M ..•••••.••.. 119.20
M. J. Darnell, SW
E. E. Adams, lnsp
R.E.Adams
J. B. Whitehead
403 W. C. Rusk, M
H. E. Newell, SW
C. F. Gordon, JW
L. S. McElwain, DGM
H. L. Burnett, J. J. Dalton
C. Guarneri, P. M. Hayes
A. R. Kirk, J. A. Kitchen
R.A.Lan~A.J.Magnesi

No.of
Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

J. R. McClosk.ey
J. G. Mitchell
D. H. Nebeker, R. T. Palmer
H. M. Sherman
W. G. Whelan
C. W. Wilson, Jr.
404 C. F. Thompson, M ......• 85.40
H. R. Sprague, SW
405 R. B. Pingarron, M ..••••.• 83.40
L. B. Fenderson
J. S. Watkins
406 R. A. Glasgow, M ......... 79.20
R. H. Robertson, SW
F. E. Bailey, JW
R. B. Carter, R. L. Olson
T. J. Preston, G. F. Welch
407 E. C. Cravens, M .••...••. 106.40
E. M. Owen, SW
A. W. Walker, JW
H. M. Rodieck
408 S. Colton, SW •. ...•.••••. 83.40
409 0. K. Roberts, SW .......• 285.09
0. L. Krick
411 L. C. Patmore, ER .•••.••• 94.80
412 H. E. Rolan, M ....•..•••• 124.20
415 W. M. Ortega, M ....•••.• 79.20
R. W. Lee, SW
L. Lieberson, JW
I. W. Wilson, S. Zaid
416 J. L. Calder, SW .•...••••• 47.80
417 A. D. Kerr, M ............ 37.40
J. M. Howell, SW
G. D. Speiser, JW
418 M. E. Moser, M .•••..•... 80.60
B. E. Dean, SW
A. D. Johnson, JW
C. K. Schertle, Insp
G. B. Bates
419 R. A. Cobbold, M ..••..... 87.80
R.R. Mealhow, SW
M. F. Gregg
420 Not Represented
421 C. A. Lindenman, M .•• •. . 83.00
R. O. Hughes, SW
R. W. Gardner, JW
422 W. C. Cleaves, SW .••.••.. 80.20
R. J. McNutt, JW
J.E. Calhoun
L. Hutchinson
423 W. C. Cavanaugh, M .•.•.• 81.80
W. G. Meier, SW
K. W. Perkins, JW
F. A. Machner, J. Saraceno

No.of
Lodge

Representatives

481
Mile.
AUow.

424 A. Fonville, M ..•••.....•• 47.00
425 I. M. Wyrick, ER .••••••.• 123.80
426 J. R. Bench, M .•.••.•.... 59.40
J. C. Kinnikin, SW
L. S. Brenneman, lnsp
R. A. Smith
427 T. S. Kulig, SW ..•..••.... 87.20
M. A. Axelton, JW
428 C. A. Reisinger, M .•..•.•• 86.20
J. C. Minarik, SW
M. C. Morrison
K. L. Parmenter
429 R. Mongsene, M ...•..•.•• 8.00
L. Williams, SW
D. Williams, JW
J.C. Brown, R. Malone
430 Not Represented
431 W.R. Bridges, SW
D. R. George, JW
R. McDonald, Insp
E. 0. Anderson
E. R. Brooks
D.D.Davis,D.E.Davi s
A. P. Harlow, W. A. Horne
J.B. Trimeloni, F. L. Vogeli
R. E. Wincentsen
433 R. C. Moore, SW .•...•... 24.20
J. J. Cochrane, JW
434 0. S. Barnes, ER ..•.•.•••. 60.80
435 K. R. Wright, M
M. J. Freeman, SW
G. J. Sandstrom, JW
E.G. Freeman, Insp
I. Crase, P. A. deVries
G.D. Freeman, J. A. Teresi
D L. West
436 V. P. Hansen, M .•.......• 87.80
C. R. Beaumont, SW
G. W. Wood, JW
437 L. S. Jaqua, M ...••..•..• 75.00
R. J. Turner, SW
S. 0. Shelby, JW
J. E. Bacon, lnsp
W.D. Knight
A. J. McCourtney
J.C. Sinn, V. D. Ward
439 J. W. Walters, SW •....•.• 15.00
440 H. S. Roberts, M
L. C. Durant, SW
J. Li, JW
441 F. C. Weisgerber, SW •....• 109.60
E. B. Link, JW

482
No.of
Lodge

Mile.

Retreserdatives

A.UtnD,

442 E. Gumpel, M ............ 104.40

443
444

445

446

447

448

449

450

451

452

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

M.A. Wood, SW
H. M. Kirkland
F. R. Porath
]. B. Koahou, SW ......... 285.09
B. K. C. Ing, T. K. H. Wong
G. F Risdon, M .••• , ...... 69.80
H. A. Huebner, GM
C. C. Benedict
R. M. Brown
G. L. Senyohl, M • •••.•••• 80.60
R. A. Hunter, SW
W. K. Stoufer, JW
F. E. Clark, Insp
R. K. Byerts, H.P. Huebner
]. S. Hunt, G. W. Page
E. I. VanAtta, Jr., M ..•.•• 84.60
W. D. Alger, SW
R. R. Pool, JW
]. W. Roberts, C.H. Ulch
0. T. Kaufman, SW •..•..• 84.60
F. M. Hansen, JW
L. D. Babcock, lnsp
R. 0. Lougee
C. G. Wheeler, M .........
6.20
].A.May, SW
G. K. Wingert, JW
V. W. Hendrix, AGS
T. L. Dyer, G. C. Johnson
P. Kennedy
D. B. McCaw, M
H. Hierro, SW
]. C. Sand, Jr., JW
A. W. Odle, W. H. Osborne
0 D. Parker, S. L. Solomon
A. E. Toivonen
D. C. Paonessa, M
W. W. Dickson, Insp
W. C. Faubion
H. A. Henry, Jr.
H. S. Morrison
W. J. Gilbert, M .......... 82.00
R. J. Morales, SW
C. F. Mayeski, JW
F. L. Sutliff, Insp
R. L. Karnes, B. F. Kearney
M. L. Lamb
A. Martinez, M ..•.•.•••.• 82.20
R. C. Southall, SW
M. B. Chubbuck, JW
J. R. Miller, R. H. Rittgers
R. D. Samosa

No.of
Lodge

Mile.

Retreserdatives

A.UoTll.

457
458

459
460
461

462

463
464

D. H. Coombs, SW
E. R. Baron, JW
B. Coleman, L. O. Ginsberg
H. S. Johnson
V. P. McMurdo
A. H. Petenon, E. E. Smith
W.E. Bode,M
]. A. Nowicki, SW
C. W. Thomas, JW
C. R. MacPhee, PGM
W. M. Lustenberger, lnsp
E. B. Brehaut
C. R. Johnson
T. W. Rollinson
C. E. Hughes, SW ......... 82.20
M. Summers, SW •••.•.••• 80.60
J. J. Stafford, JW
B. D'Aston, P. Nardella
F. C. Warner
G. C. Staley, M •••••••••.. 18.20
C. C. Byard, SW •••••••••• 12.40
C. R. Smith, M
C. F. Montgomery, SW
R. M. Lutzi, JW
G. P. Leung, Insp
E. A. Caldwell
A. W. Dalrymple
]. K. Hodge, R. P. Knox
C. D. Lightbody, S.S. Sato
J. A. Steinmetz, J. H. Turner
B. H. Stolz, M
M. B. Kline, SW
L. A. Weissmann, JW
L. H. Beckendorff
R. H. Deovlet
H. D. King, P. A. Lawson
]. W. Wanhaw
E. W. Smith, SW .......... 13.80
W. G. Eustace, JW
W. A. Foster
R.H. Hill, M
G. A. Prock, Jr., SW
S. Robson, JW

467

468
469
470

471

472
473
475
476

477
478

479

D.N.Dean~S.V.Doninelli

465

A. E. Hewit, G. E. Moody
F. C. Nielsen, G. E. Payne
E. G. Reichstetter
A. V. Sligar
S. W. Smith, SW ..........
S. E. Dollar

Mile.

Retreserdatives

A.Uow.

466 L. E. Wynn, M ....••••••• 57.80

454 G. A. Chrestionson, M

455

No.of
Lodge

480
36.60

J. R. Parris, SW
E. L. Moynier, JW
]. O. Gregoire, C. W. Luick
R.J.Myen
A. R. Pedenen, M .•••..•• 80.60
E. E. Peters, SW
A.T.Eme,JW
0. M. Reik.kola, lll9p
]. A. Miller, E. D. Peck
D. E. Moss,M
L. H. Sims, SW
]. W. Eldridge, JW
]. C. Newcomer, Jr., SW .•. 86.60
B. Keh, M
P. L. Puett, SW
R. R. Tulee, JW
]. ]. Dunn, S. Miller
C. Rothblum
]. E. Broin, M ............ 15.60
L. W. Seibel, SW
G. W. Graffis, F. V. Mayo
W. E. Offermann
E. E. Davis, M ........... 310.25
W. C. Day, Sr.
J. E. Sherier, SW ......... 125.80
P. T. Gudmundson, M ..... 80.60
S. A. Johnson, SW
S. J. Copenhaver, Jr., M ... 107.00
]. T. Richardson, JW
R. E. Carlton, R. K. Hager
F. F. Wilson
Not Represented
]. G. Dodge, M
]. H. Leake, SW
F. A. Storey, JW
R. Beckwith
B. M. Burchard
P. Forrest, H. F. Hexner
E. L. Kearney, G. H. Meyer
H. C. Petenon
D. R. Kidder, M .......... 10.00
R. S. Whitlach, SW
]. V. Hillis, JW
L. E. Allen, D. H. Dewhurst
]. S. Hasen, J. W. Lile
E. W. Roggy, R. W. Scott
E. C. Van de Mark
C. 0. Somers, M
]. B. Barbero, lnsp
A. L. Costa, P. M. Porter
R. G. Worth

No.of
Lodge

483
Mile.

Retreserdatives

A.Uow.

481 E. Larson,M

482
483

484
485
486

487

488
489

490
491

492

493

A. W. Watson, SW
L. V. Comer, JW
D. D. Rowlands, lnsp
G. F. Adams, W. H. Daily
A. A. Hubner, E. F. Pierce
D. J. Smith
E. A. Hart, M ............
W. A. Steiner, M .....•••••
E. W. Dreger, SW
]. D. Kelso, lnsp
A.C.Larson
R. A. Manning, ER .•••.•.•
R. O. Upton, SW ..........
G. E. Montgomery, M ..•••
W. L. Swartz, SW
R. R. Holt, JW
V. R. Wyatt, Insp
H. 0. Hall, W. W. Shugart
W. D. Montgomery, M ....
J. R. Ludwig, SW
M. E. White, JW
E. G. Branstetter
H. A. Budding
D. ]. Gourley, C. B. Menge
G.E.Rosen
F. D. Wheeler, M .••••••..
G. R. Simpson, SW
]. W. Tucker, JW
F. V. Bowles, M
D. R. Ikola, SW
R. M. Lowell, JW
D. D. Fulks, C. R. MacKay
]. V. McDonald
C. A. Nelson
]. A. Sobey, A. Van Nieuw
F. Brown, SW ............
J. Hammond, lnsp
G. F. Burkart, M
T. W. Harjo, SW
W. J. Goldenstein, JW
G. A. Jurgens
W. J. Justin, Jr.
V. R. Van Natt.a
W. Woodall
W. D. Harger, SW .•...•.•
P. I. Hylton, JW
H. M. Hand, lnsp
G. E. Harrison, lnsp
W. E. Jorgensen, ER ......
F. C. Hess

77.00
83.00

80.60
29.20
57.80

6.20

18.20

46.80

80.60

42.80

484
No.of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Representatives

Mile.
AUow.

No.of
Lodge

494

R. C. Ball, M
D. F. Darrow, SW
W. H. Hanson, JW
L. W. Gilliam, E. L. Hanson
N. Weisgerber
P.H. Williams
497 W. H. Feener, M
D. A. Parry, SW

511

512

A.F.J~JW

498 Not Represented
499 J. A. Tate, M ..•.•........ 17.20

500

501
502
503

504

505

506
507

508
509
510

B. L. Dunning, SW
P. Gemoules, JW
R. A. Ebbage, JGW
D. L. South
J. J. Gama,M
H. M. Sante, SW
D. D. Taylor, JW
E. J. Armando, W. C. Zecher
L. E. Barron, JW ..•....•.
E. Beber, M
M. Engholm, SW
B. G. Gunter, JW
W. C. McKinney, M
C. C. McLain, SW
R. D. Driskill, JW
D. G. Collins, B. W. Colvin
R. V. Waylett
R. E. Roswurm, M ...•. ..•
J. W. DeWolf, SW
B. E. Newbrough, JW
R. H. Davis, lnsp
E. Houser, H. K. Noble
J. H. Lockwood, M .......
R. M. Pitts, SW
D. B. Henley, JW
V. R. Oltmanns
R. H. Mincheff, M ........
M. Ishida, SW
H. Beal
G. D. Miller, M .••...•....
W. T. Durant, SW
B. L. Warmbrodt, JW
R. J. Lehman
R. J. Urrizola, M .•...•.•..
V. L. Gordon, lnsp
W. J. Keiper, SW .........
R. Simon, lnsp
L. Miller
T. L. Bankston, M ... .....
H. M. King, SW

513
515
516
518
519

49.80

520

521
85.80

522
87.00

523
80.60
81.80

42.00

524
525

526

80.60

527
9.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Representatives

Mile.
AUow.

W. Kudenov, Jr., JW
R. D. Batie, H. J. Wright
8.20
W. C. Horiton, Jr., M ....•.
F. M. McReynolds, SW
G. P. Williams, JW
H. R. Duke
L. F. Patterson, M ......•• 80.60
G. G. Hope, SW
J. O. Goodale, JW
R. L. Niccum
W.W. Carpenter, M ..... . 79.20
R. L. Whitney
I. H. Williams, M ..•..•... 83.00
Not Represented
M. Edmondson, SW •...... 103.40
J. w. Getsinger
P. M. Bezanson, ER .•..•.• 83.60
R. F. Knapp, lnsp
J. A. Turnbull, lnsp
T. R. Waite, lnsp
S. L Quint, M ............ 80.60
F. D. Rosen, SW
E. L. Friedman, JW
S. Rosen, Insp
R. Fenster, J. M. Kartzinel
M.H.Nahin
E. R. Riksheim, M
R. E. Taylor, SW
G. H. Stratos, JW
A. T. Floyd, Jr.
D. W. Wells
R. R. Hough, M .•.•...••• 82.20
G Deretich, SW
R. B. Bormann, A. A. Muske
L. H. Ayers, M .•..••..... 84.00
S. E. Foster, SW
R. M. Littlefield, JW
M. R. Green, D. R. Howell
L. M. Thomas, ER .••••... 92.40
G. G. Whiteside, M
R. F. Ratliff, SW
N. N. Domansky, JW
R. L. Bowen, J. Newsham
W. Chew,M
H. P. Olsen, SW
G. Kaplan, JW
G. Goldman, C. H. Israel
S. L. Pond
E. E. Jordan, M .......... 82.80
E. H. Raikes, SW
H. J. Shaffer

No.of
Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
AUow.

528 C. F. Michel, M ..••.••... 80.60

529

530
531
532
533
534

535

537
538
540
541

542

A. N. Minton, SW
M. H. Beltzer, JW
C. E. Crane, J.B. Crawford
F. A. Fox
S. F. J elin, M ...•....••.... 80.60
D. Gelberg, SW
R. H. Siegel, JW
A. Linsk, AGTreas.
M. Tooredman, lnsp
M. L. Meltzner
B. L. Susman
W. H. Murphy, SW ....... 36.60
J.E. Moore, JW
H. R. Hargrove, lnsp
G.N. Pine, M
D. Hartman, SW
F. F. Goodman
J. E. Cargill, M ....•...... 18.80
H. G. Mynster, SW
B. E. Atchison, JW
H. L. Hibler, Jr., SW ..•... 86.00
C. E. Ball, JW
S. A. Butler, W. A. Rake
J. J. Plaster, M
W. N. Carter, SW
K. Wong, JW
J.N.Rae,J. W. Rae
H. H. Enriquez, M •....... 80.60
T. C. Halm, JW
K. H. Copeland, Jr.
W. T. Saunders
E. A. Stone
K. E. Stookesberry, M .•••. 80.60
F. ,T , Alexander, SW
0. E. Clauder, F. A. Frazier
R. G. Anderson, M .•••••.. 84.60
C. A. Kohler, JW
W. A. Starkey, M ......... 85.80
W. F. Stovall, Jr., SW
H. Fleig, JW
J. W. Mason, M
R. D. Morse, SW
L. M. Barrett
C. J. Bellman, Jr.
T. C. Broyer, E. R. Rowe
M. J. Alfano, M .......... 78.00
W. B. A. Burt, SW
D. Maltby, lnsp
R. I. Allen, F. E. Archer
J. G. Gladson, D. Ingalls
L. V. Price, R. A. Totman
J. S. Woodward

No.of
Lodge

Representatives

485
Mile.
AUow.

543 H. L. Kellum, M .••...•.•• 85.80
H. E. Watson, Jr., SW

544 J. R. Vaughn, M ...•.•...• 80.00

545

546

547

548

549

551

552
554

555
556
557

F. A. Colon, JW
W.W. Danyluk
C. C. Hushaw
S. A. Butera, M
R. F. Irons, SW
K. K. S. Won, JW
L. G. Fong, T. L. Knudson
I. J. Kohnke
0. W. Norman
W. F. Poynter
R. T. Yarbray, M ...•.••.•
R. L. Pemberton, SW
A. J. Evanko, JW
E. T. Knowles
I. A. Oxford, M ...•..•....
B. B. Smith, SW
F. P. Garside, JW
E. C. Murfett
A. L. Harris, Jr., M .......
R. E. Atwood, SW
L. A. Hays, JW
S. D. Boyd, G. Young
H. Van der Velde, M
S. C. Lee, SW
F. A. Sebastinelli, JW
W.W. Barry
R. 0. Biedenbach
A. Burke, M. F Conklin
S. Fong, R. R. Herdman
0. T. Johnson
J. J. Lopipero
U. E. Nordeen, F. Reinke
E. Mirigian, M
R. D. Peters, SW
P. S. Boren, L B. Ferguson
C. E. Joseph, L. A. Kirk
T. M. Lewis, G. S. Trimble
C. W. Coffey, SW •••••••••
J.C. Tario
W. D. Gunter, M
W. R. Carlson, SW
J. L. Woods, JW
F. D. DeLong
W.M. Milligan
Not Represented
G. H. Totten, SW
R. A. Smallman, Insp
P. W. Goff, Jr., M ........
R. W. Marsh, JW
J. P. Russell

82.20

83.40

81.20

56.80

82.20

486

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Re/lf'esentatives
AUow.
558 G. Costantini, SW ......... 86.00

559
560

561

562

563

564

565
566

567
568
569

570

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

H. A. Bradley, JW
A. E. Beach, M ........... 80.60
W. B. Adams, M
J. W. McCracken, SW
C. E. Creely, JW
E. H. Siems, GS
D. E. Weisse, Insp
H. M. McCracken
C. M. Stine
B. H. Vincent
D. F. Craig, SW.. .. .. • .. • 104.40
D.S. Young, JW
L. McClure, Insp
H.K. Ford
H. L. Gudmundson
0. Temple, M
C. T. Watts, SW
L. J. Corsello, JW
T. J. Meraz, Insp
J. H. Ludlow
D. E. Armfield, M .••••..• 80.60
H. C. Porter, JW
W. Bottorff, Insp
L. B. Black, J. M. Foster
C.H. Lindegren, M. F. Vall
R. W. Campini, M
E. L. Eastin, SW
R. L. Katen, JW
V. H. Campbell
R. W. Campini
C. B. Munck
D. A. Smith, Jr., SW ...... 80.80
C. R. Johnson, JW
D. Johnson
C. W. Ryder, M . ......... 80.60
C. D. McMichael, SW
R. B Kirk, JW
E. A. Johnson
M. E. Green, M ........... 85.80
S. R. Venable, SW
G. Walker, L. S. Wolfe
R. S. Chew, SW
W. V. McBeth
W. H. Vancleave
5.00
J. D. McPhee, M ..........
F. E. Binpman, SW
K.. D. Groff, JW
R. V. Daskam
F. C. Sing,M
W. H. James, SW
N. H. Hong, JW

No.of
Lodge

Re/lf'esentativu

Mile.
AUOV1.

F. E. Long, Imp
L E. Allton, J. Kinces
C. W.Lee
571 J. G. Piazza, M
W. G. Nall, SW
H. J. Richoux, JW
W.R. Peterson
572 D.R. Fischer, M .......... 80.80
P. V. Glarborg, SW
E. J. Cumbey
574 A. C. Jarrett, M .......... 104.40
T. Ketterer, SW
R. E. Hutchin.son, JW
N. E. Hale
575 Not Represented
576 V. W. Crum, M ........... 106.40
W. F. Rollison, SW
R.R. Watkins, JW
577 G. W. Page, M ........... 82.80
R. C. Earnest, SW
J. A. Low
578 R. W. Holder, SW ......... 80.60
K.. F. Isbell, Jr.
579 J. G. Drennan, M ......... 17.20
C. W. Montgomery, SW
D. H. Elder, JW
C. E. Herrmann, J. M. Lee
K. W. Meyser, R. Miller
580 R. E. Diggina, ER. • • • • . • • • 105.40
W. C. Leach, Insp
581 D. L. Diebel, M .•.•••••••• 57.80
M.May,SW
S. A. Blain, JW
S. R. Bauman, K.. P. Sward
Whitfield
J.
582 J. H. Crouch, SW ......... 90.40
J. R. Shaffer, JW
D. L. Stephens
583 J. D. Paul, M ............. 55.20
T. G. Hammack, SW
A. D. Lewis, JW
J. H. Brown, GP
584 R. W. Winter, M ......... 80.60
M. Prestidge, SW
R.H. Mason
D. H. McDonald
M.A. Pixley
585 D. G. Bayless, M ...••••••• 80.60
W. A. Anderson, SW
A. R. Dixon
586 R. C. Rappaport, M ••••••• 87.00
J. Smith, SW

c.

No.of
Lodge

Re/lf'esentativu

Jtile.
AUOVI.

T. L. Mooneyham, JW
G. B. Honold
W. W.Reybum
587 V. K. Admire, M .••.•••••• 80.80
W. V. Mawson, SW
F. C. Chan, J. M. Maddock
J. K.. Zinn
588 A.O. Vaughan, M ......... 80.60
R. N. Aragon, SW
J.M. Panek
589 R. E. Hodgdon, M .••..•.• 310.25
C.K.Oyagi
590 L. Miriani, SW ........... 87.20
M. Kistler, JW
591 L Prater, M .............. 17.00
592 D. D. Hanlon, M ......... 77.80
R.R. Carter, SW
W.W. See,JW
593 W. A. Souza, M •....•.•..• 85.80
J. F. Price, SW
A. L. Pierce, JW
G. C. Gregory, Insp
M. V. Dearth
L. J. McEldowney
594 G. L. Barnes, M ...••••••.• 85.80
C. A. Rogers, SW
B. A. Larson, JW
R. R. Bach, GC
C. J. Wentz, Insp
V. S. Hoopes, P. D. Nowlin
595 M. M. J ampole, JW ....... 80.60
E.O.Hall
596 K.. B. Krug, Jr., M ........ 82.00
G. L. Knapp, SW
P. W. Smith, Insp
598 C. S. K. Chun, SW.. • • .. • • 285.09
M. T.Luke
599 R. J. Bennett, M ••••••••• 82.20
P. G. Weston, SW
G. P. Cross, JW
A. L. Gerrie, Jr.
K.. A. Jacobson
600 W. W. McQueen, M ....... 82.00
L. R. Coffman, SW
A. Pekarchuk, JW
R. C. Eulberg, Insp
H. H. Baird, R. A. Herbold
C. M. Jacobi, Sr.
601 W. J. Ferguson, M .••••.•• 50.00
W. H. Young
602 R. E. J ohnaon, M ......... 79.20
M. Wood, Jr., SW

No.of
Lodge

Re/lf'esentatives

487
Jtile.
AUOVI.

F. Whitaker, JW
T. J. McKimson, GT
I. M. Bjork, G. H. Himes
R. F. Kettler, Jr.
603 J. W. Reynolds, M
R. E. Paulson, SW
W. F. Wilber, JW
L. C. Basker, Insp
G. W. Anderson
G. Ringsmith
A. E. Wheeler
604 J. E. Berger, M ........... 87.00
L. G. Connelly, Insp
605 R. B. Carrico, M .......... 80.60
J. S. Carlson, SW
L. Crandall, G. M. Haley
607 C. J. Gentry, M ........... 84.20
608 J. R. Gardner, M ......... 82.00
W. A. Hynes, SW
C. J. Carlisle, JW
D. G. Campbell, PGL
J.E. Wellet, Insp
W. R. Worobe, Insp
609 P. Dugan, SW .•••••••••.• 17.20
H. D. Draper, Jr., JW
H. L. Hall, C. B. Hendricks
610 T. J. Mecca
611 D. P. Westra, M ••...•...• 78.60
R. N. Deter, SW
L. Hainline, JW
J. H. ColpiUs
612 C. A. Miller, SW .......... 83.40
J. L Higginbotham, JW
M. F. Logue, W. B. Ross
M. E. Schrock
613 C. E. Green, M ........... 17.20.
J. T. O'Bryan, SW
E. A. Maunder, JW
F. L. Baker, Insp
M. A. Buth, H. L. Evans
F. P. Lemen
614 A. M. Shinn, Jr., M ....... 80.60
C. W. Campbell, SW
R. A. Simon, Insp
N. Condee, C. B. Little
615 H.F. Looney, M .••••••••• 98.00
J. Brown, SW
R. D. Siems
616 G. Bowers, M ••••.••••••• 86.20
H. W. Bigler, JW
K. B. Conklin, GSB

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.of
Lodge

No.of
Lodge

617

632

618

619
620
621
622

623

625

626

627

628

629

630

631

Mile.
Representatives
Allow.
M. D. Cohu, SW ..•..•...• 98.00
V. Cawthon, JW
D. H. Altimus
B. J. Spicer, M ........... 80.00
J. Casaletti, Jr., SW
C. A. Morgan, JW
C. W. W. Bailey
R. S. Clark
C. E. Dudgeon
B. G. Lawhorn, SW ••..•.• 85.80
G. M. Saunders, JW
J. L. Hodge, M ........•.. 104.40
G. A. Prock, JW
H. S. Fisher, H. K. Rankin
D. K. Keller, M •••.•...•.. 80.60
J. D. Kaprielian, SW
J. N. Roberts
W. J. Ellison, SW .•......• !!0.60
F. H. Chapman
G. Commons
R.H. Dutwiler
L. Resnick, M ..••..••..•. 80.60
A. J. Cadis, SW
S. Chadnow, M. M. Rubin
A. Zeavin
R. A. Clarke, M .•..•.•.••. 82.80
J. T. Oliver, SW
G. Ramos, JW
L. M. Ayers, H. E. Noguchi
M. S. Hansen, M ....•....• 105.60
F. N. McGrath, SW
J. W. Peterson, JW
C. B. Hart, lnsp
J. H. Greife
E. A. Dahl, M .•••......•. 82.20
S. D. Elias, SW
G. A. Pompey, JW
R. Henry
E. L. Schneier, M .••.....• 79.20
T. Schuman, SW
H. Epstein, JW
S. K. Lehman, Jr.
T. H. McAlexander, M ....• 81.80
R. L. Strother, SW
R. C. Harris, B. L. Irwin
H. C. Mudgett, L. Vollowitz
K. R. Moss, M
F. J. Nager, SW
A. Miller, Jr., JW
G. H. Beers, J. F. Garriott
N. C. Todd, SW •.•.•.••.. 80.60
M. J. Norton, lnsp
P.D.Tarr

633
634
635

636

637

639

641
642
643
644
645

646
647
648

650

Mile.
Representatives
Allow.
C. H. Anderson, SW ...... 104.40
H. W. Smith, JW
M. L. Coon, Insp
B. T. Salmon
J.P. Newton, M ...•.•.... 73.20
R. P. Phillips, SW
H. J. Glasscox ..•.••••••• 84.40
P. S. Johnson, JW
E. D. Wilson, M •••••.••• 92.00
R. L. Jones, SW
W. A. Young, JW
C.H. Grace
D. Blagovich, M .•...••... 80.60
H. D. Fong, SW
R. A. Crigler, PGM
C. D. Kidd
E. A. Underwood
E. M. Parrott, M .. (. •••.• 80.20
T. M. Lassen, SW
J. W. Dryer, Jr., JW
R. D. Kerr, C. A. Weihe
J. I. Levi, SW •.•.••.••••. 80.60
J. W. Harris, JW
A. Dvorin, L. T. Greenwald
A. M. Mazure, J. H. Phillips
A. E. Roth, M .•••.•••.•.• 80.80
J.B. Keith, M .•••.•••..•. 68.00
M. R. McCormick, SW •..• 85.80
A. V. Shilling
J. Moore, SW ••.•••.•.•••• 85.40
F. G. Brown, JW
W. B. Marshall
R. H. Haynes, M ....••... 86.00
G. M. Goar, SW
I. Thoren, JW
E. J. Walker, lnsp
E. J. Genter
F. Hattesen, JW •....•••.• 80.60
R.R. Snyder
J. E. Strumquist, M ...••.. 82.80
F. W. Hawkins
A. W. Deam, M ..•..•..••• 90.80
W. W. Piper, SW
C. E. Henson, JW
L. C. Cook, H. L. Knick
J. L. Ousley
A. B. Kutcher, M ••••••••• 80.60
R. K. Borror, SW
J. J. Hamel, JW
H. W. Baruth
G. W. Burch, Jr.
H. J. Cameron, R. R. Lee
J. W. Swank, C. Yecsmen

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No.of
Lodge

Representatives

651 R. F. Eisenhart, M ....•.•.

Mile.
Allow.
6.40

D.S. Day, SW
S. W. Cohn, JW
A. F. Kou1a, lnsp
E. A. Grindle, R. Hodge
D. Wright
652 E. H. Pollock, M ....•.... 80.40
J. H. Thomason, SW
F. J. Schneider, Jr., JW
D. C. Semmens
653 N. Thomas, M . . ....•....• 92.20
W. L. Bennett, SW
C. J. Wolf, JW
J. M. Hawkins
654 R. L. Sweeten, M ........• 81.80
J. A. Humphrey, SW
W. S. Van de Weghe
655 W. C. Russell, M ......... 85.80
P.R. Lawrence, SW
R. D. Parkins, JW
J. R. Bennett, R. J. Epps
J. E. Forsyth
K. V. Johnson
656 W. H. Daetweiler, M ...... 85.40
F. B. Cary, SW
R. 0. Baugh, JW
P. Campbell, Insp
657 E. E. Nash, M ......•....• 104.40
W.W. Johnstone, SW
M. H. Galer, JW
W. F. Robbins, lnsp
F. J. Leipper
658 J. A. Perez, M ..••......•• 22.80
W. J. Kangas, SW
E. F. White
659 J. W. Drake, M ...•....... 84.80
W. C. Higgins, SW
R. E. Moffitt, JW
D.A. Colman
660 J. R. Hollingshead, M .•.•• 83.80
W. R. Marrison, SW
E. K. Gebhardt, JW
A. A. McGee
661 F. A. Barnes, SW ..•.•...• 80.60
662 L. K. Brink, Jr., M ...•..•• 80.60
E. R. Lilly, SW
C. S. Barrett, W.R. Helms
663 I. D. Atkinson, SW .•.•.••. 74.40
J. W. Norton, JW
F. E. Stevens
665 L. R. Pritchard, ER .•••... 46.60

No.of
Lodge

Representatives

489
Mile.
Allow.

666 R. C. Read, M •••.....•••. 77.60
N. W. Demetra!, SW
J. R. Vickers, lnsp
F. Homer
667 J.B. Wallace, M .......... 80.00
A. H. Loke, SW
R. L. Peterson, lnsp
H. E. Scott, Insp
C. M. Farrell, D. E. Reid
J.M. Swan
668 H. 0. Siddons, SW ..•..... 97.40
V.C.Mills
669 H. L. Gruver, M ....•....• 10.00
G. E. Wallace, SW
J.E. Walker, JW
W. H. Reed, Insp
M. G. Gonzales
670 G. A. Harding, M ........ 82.60
W. R. Cobun, SW
L. A. Strong, Insp
R.R. Frazier, C. A. Green
671 T. J. Lundy, JW ....•••••. 92.60
G. E. Sutton, lnsp
R. L. Broaddus, R. L. Holt
672 J.H. Hom, M ••.•••...•.• 91.00
W. H. Wayman
673 E. E. Emmons, Jr., M
E. McHale, SW
K. E. Larson, JW
A. A. Baker, Jr., C. Foster
C. Kiefer, R. Mason
C. Prior, E. W. Quon
H. Rowe, A. Sandell
J. Springer
R. Van Heekerin
K.Yuen
674 F. Atkins, M .............• 85.80
B. Stobbs, SW
H. Ratner, JW
B. Reizner, A. J. Sissons
675 J. K. Sacknitz, SW ..•..•.• 18.20
H. H. Coleman, C. L. Heim
676 G. G. Young, M .......•.• 10.00
R. C. Pfirrman, SW
R. W. Scott, JW
R. F. Ward, Insp
C. R. Carpenter
N.L.David
W. Eilers
G. C. Glendenning
s. Janis

490

PROCEED INGS OF THE

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
AUow.
677 M. Tapscott, M .......... 80.60
W. K. Merrick, SW
T. H. Wright, Insp
L. W. Allen, R. M. Foster
H. W. Smith
678 L. P. Bachtold, M ....••.• 82.00
J. K. Bryant, SW
F. E. Brenima.n, JW
W. T. Dial, A.H. Hazard
W. R. 1uergens
]. L. Schwinn
T . F. Tolbert
679 Not Represented
680 J. A. Cardiualli, SW •...•. 24.80
C. H. Bailey, Insp
E. H. Santee
681 R. Coleman, JW ........•• 28.40
J. M. Eppler, Insp
].Dennis
682 H. G. Torbett, M ...... .• . 83.00
D. E. Stringham, SW
]. Q. Jacobs, JW
R. P. Higgins, Insp
V. B. Claypool, V. Hixson
683 W. D. Hanisch, M ......•. 42.20
D. W. Mowrey, SW
C. A. Pancoast, JW
K. E. Knapp, W. C. Wilson
684 A. L. Anders, ER .•........ 84.60
G. Hess, H. Lineback
685 C. Minton, M .•.•... ..... 82.60
H. Van Gieson, Jr., SW
S. J. Collins, Insp
R. J. Renville, Insp
K. Hooten, W. G. E. Irwin
W. J. Williams
686 E. Wallace, M
E. D. Terry, SW
687 T. E. Grimes, SW ..••..•.. 99.40
A.H. Chung, W. E. Lane
688 B. O. Blackbum, SW ...... 57.80
B. I. King, JW
L. E. Halbert, Sr.
G. Norman
689 V. E. Gordon, M ..••••.•.• 41.80
I. M. Duncan
690 D. Ball, M
W. E. Hart, SW
W. A. Holmes, JW
691 D. R. Wittenbrin k, M . .... 80.60
M. H. Hetrick, SW
E. R. Mangrum
L. D. Radcliff

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOl tNIA

No.of
Lod~e

Representatives

Mile.

AUow.

No.of
Lodge

692 P.R. Lewis, M ..••.••••• 17.20
C. P. Kesler, SW
G. I. Nordine, JW
693 M . E. Rudin, M ...•. ..... 102.40
G. H. Hilla, SW
L. M. Mariger, JW
T. C. Frederic:Wn, Insp
D. M. Binkerd
F. A. Morrison
694 C. F. Watson, M ....•..••• 83.00
A. J. Rich, SW
]. Moore, JW
H. A. Taylor
695 R. V. Smith, M ......•••• 57.80
V. C. Gearhart, JW
696 H. W. Stripling, M .••• .. .• 104.40
H. D. DeGood, SW
C.H. Gay,JW
G. Blackford, F. H. Stewart
697 K. W. Chinn, M
R. H. Burrows, W. McCosh
698 V. N. Legerton, M .••.•••• 80.60
S. Alcorn, SW
W. E. Burris, Jr., JW
699 H. C. Lockhart, M ......•• 85.80
E. E. Hart, SW
R. D. Reece, JW
H. D. Lemons, GL
R. A. Sherod, Insp
E. R. Eley
W. T. Killingsworth
700 L. E. Wiggs, SW .••..•.... 36.60
J. R. F.asterly, JW
701 L. Busony, M .... ......•• 60.00
R. L. Davis, SW
702 ]. N. Bahruth, SW ..••.••• 82.40
D. A. Graham, JW
]. F. Graham
703 R. A. ·Toepfer, SW ..•••••• 80.80
H. W. Underwood, JW
W.R. Cox
705 R. M. Gorrell, M
706 R. B. Gibon, M
W. G. Naef, JW
P. Granberg, L. J. Wells
707 W. W. Jones, SW ••••••••• 38.40
708 M. E. Hiles, M .•.••••••• •. 91.60
R. F. Speth, SW
V. H. Gunderson
709 R. I. Smith, M
N. R. Tilghman, SW
E. R. Dutra, JW

710
711

712
713

714
715

716

717

Mile.

Representatives

AUow.

C. V. McCaul, Insp
E. C. Will, Insp
L. F. Perkins
]. H. Vanden Bos
S. P. Putnik, M ..••....• •
E. E. Golden, JW
R. A. Ceniceros, M ..••••••
R. S. Fraser, SW
]. D. Williams, Insp
E. N. Stansel
D. L. Jones, M ..•.•••••• .•
G. B. Bruce, SW
R. S. Everett, G. N. Hoss
H. R. Gilbert. M ...••••.••
W. E. Salomon, SW
F. W. Diehl, JW
W. H. Monsen
E. E. Proffitt
R. D. Cross, M
J. J. Burrous, SW
D. E. Forster
M. L. Occhi, M .••.••••. · •
R. L. French, SW
R. L. Swann, JW
W. L. Byram
R. E. Goodall, Jr.
G. D. Shepard
J. R. Nelson, M .••.•••..•
R. R. Streader, SW
]. R. Miller, JW
0. D. Akin, R. L. Gandt
G. E. ServiM
A. F. Dukellis, M .•••..••••
]. W. Behymer, SW
W. M. Merritt, JW

Mile.

Representatives

AUow.

R. Orphan, SW

725 F. R. Preston, M .•..•••.••

75.20
93.80

7.80

5.00

79.20

85.80

82.60

c. w. King

718 E. F. RuSISell
719 J. Campbell, SW .•••••..•• 47.00
M. Cecil

720 D. M. Hydeman, M •.•.•• 44.80
M. S. Bailey, SW
A. C. Twinem
721 D. Tribich, M ••.••••••• ••
S. Kadesh, SW
H. Solochek, JW
B. Ennis, A. Tobey
722 D. 0. Green, M .••.••..•. •
G. D. Warburton , SW
L. E. Hendricks
723 K. F. Heuer, M
D. R. Hansen, SW
D. M. Shull, JW
724 R. M. Dallons, M ........

No.of
Lodge

491

78.00

10.60

6.60

5.00
E. L. Beadleston, SW
W. F. Entelman, JW
R. Kerr
726 R. Pittard, Jr., SW .•...•.. 93.60
W. Lynch, JW
727 P. W. Stine, M ..•.....•• .• 80.00
O. M. McCartney, SW
]. T. Paynter, JW
P. B. Stone, SGD
K. Barrette, W. E. Bergdahl
A. E. Fraser, J.E. Sloan
728 E. F. Edwards, M ...••••• 85.80
W. H. Rodkey, SW
M. S. Potopea, JW
G. W. John, Insp
K. Hemphill, D. E. Keith
729 R. E. Lee, Jr., M .....••.•• 84.20
G. C. McElroy, SW
L. T. Hanlon
730 H. E. Duggan, SW ....•••. 17.80
J. ·T. Woodhouse, JW
E. E. Seagle, AGL
E. S. Hodges
731 J. E. Hintergard t, M .•.••. 83.00
W. R. Keith, SW
V. L. Massey, JW
E. Read
732 R. M. Kay, M ...•••.••• .• 17.80
R. C. Watkins, SW
H. E. Leise, JW
733 R. L. Dotson, M .••• : ••••• 17.20
R. Gibson, SW
] . Robimon, R. K. Titus
734 G. R. Larsen, M .•.••••... 17.20
W. E. McCarty, SW
B. L. Enloe, JW
J.E. Roderick, Jr.
735 C. F. Armstrong, M .•...• 102.80
W.W. Shirley, SW
G. W. Steil
736 0. F. Icenogle, M .•.••••• 106.60
737 W. Gross, Jr., M
]. Burszan, Jr., Insp
P. Cassidy
738 Not Represented
739 G. A. Cook, M .••...•••• .• 80.40
A. H. Collins, SW
740 A. F. Prenger, M ..••••..•• 82.80
C. E. Turner, SW
]. W. Condo, JW
R. K. Tassie

492
No.of
Lodge

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

Retres eneaiiv u

741 B. E. Ludwig, M ••••••• •••

GRAN D LODG E OP' CALIF ORNI A

Mile.
AUow.

No.of
Lodge

83.60

760 C. L Hodges, M .••••• ••.. 106.40

]. I. Mendenhall, SW
742 P. R. Johnson, M ••••••• • 83.00
] . R. Anderson, SW
A. E. Linde
743 C. F. Kumpe, M •••••• .••• 80.40
R. C. Westerfeld, SW
C. E. Glaze
744 J. A. Ramos, M
G. A. R. Pao, SW
D. W. Spruance, JW
] • W. Parker
745 R. G. Knorr, M
D. F. Morse, S\V
746 B. J. Seibel, M .•••• , •••••• 15.20
W. Bartlet t, JW
A. W. Wendt, W. M. Wong
747 R. F. Dingman, M., •••••• 105.60
748 K. M. Cripps, S\V ••••••• • 90.80
R. L. Burkeybile, JW
749 H. M. Beam, ER .•••••• ••• 25.60
C.L.G rten,In sp
750 F. L. Eaton, Jr., M .•••••• • 86.20
751 I. C. Campbell, M ...... .. 5.60
W. K. Dillon, SW
W. W. Hints, JW
R. W. Bussman
H. C. Jackso n
G. N. Rodgers, G. ]. Roth
W. M. Standley
752 J. E. Plunke tt, M .•••••• •• 10.80
L. A. Richards, JW
W. ]. Chisholm
]. A. Friedrichsen
753 E. E. Irvin, SW ••.•••• ••• 82.80
L W. Yarbrough, JW
754 M. Horbin , JW
J.B. Wyma n
755 C. A. Caprio, SW ••••••• • 82.00
756 A. L. Vargus, M .• , •.••••• 6.20
]. H. McColley, SW
H. L. Rutan, JW
J.C. Jacobaon
757 E. F. Simmons, M ..... , .• 15.60
R. W. Ebenhack, SW
A. Gold
758 E. A. Brunner, SW ••••••• • 84.40
L. C. Hall, Insp
J.L.Ha wkes
759 R. Cummins, M • .•••••• •• 83.00
F. 0. Mann, SW
P.A. Morris

Retrue nkliiv u

Mile.
AUow.

A. D. Sawyer, SW
H. W. Warfield, JW
B. ]. Conrad
761 H. T. Pollard, M .•••••• ••• 6.40
T. J. McWilliam
D. D. Wilcox
R. F. Locke, Jr.
762 J.E. Wan-en, M
B. F. Mintle, SW
B. N. Harden , JW
W. L. Chesson, Jr.
C. W. Howell
M. E. Mothershed
763 G. Nassif, Ill, SW ....... . 80.00
]. ]. Roum, JW
764 P.O. Miser, M .... ....... , 78.00
C. G. Holgate, SW
C. F. Guyson
765 ]. G. Yuen, M .•••••• ••••• 84.60
V. G. Rounds, SW
c. ]. Echelberger
P.F.L ucas
H. C. McLendon
766 E. Epstein, M ••••••• ••••• 83.00
S. F. Markasich, S\V
E. G. Hovivian, JW
767 P. 0. Grubb, M .•••••. •••• 80.60
G. 0. Gessel, SW
768 W. F. Silva, M • •• ••••••• •• 77.60
W. E. Hollister, S\V
769 ]. W. Stapp, M ••••••• •••• 77.40
H. A. Macy, SW
B. O. Nakuh ima, J\V
LC. Meyer
770 ]. B. Craven, M ....... ... 5.00
R. A. Hudson, SW
G. T. Lober, Jr.
771 J. O. Collier, M ••••••• ••• 104.40
S. E. Shoemaker, SW
M. A. Pearce, JW
]. L. Rogers
772 R. W. Agee, SW ....... ... 45.20
773 ]. G. Martinez, M ....... . 57.80
M. ] • Michaels, JW
774 L. M. Wright, SW .•••••• , 285.09
W. K. McKee, Jr., ]GS
775 ]. M. Sherilla, SW ....... . 100.20
776 ]. H. Cooknell, M ....... . 82.60
R. W. Wileman, JW
0.0.Br i.dges
R. M. Lustig

No.of
Lodge

777
778

779
780
781
782

783
784
785
786
787
788
789

790

791

792

793
794

795

Mile.
AUow.
Retres emaiiv es
A. Riva, ER .••••• ..••••• • 26.40
H. Zechman
R. J. Garcia, M .••••.• •.• 84.60
D. F. Bradley, JW
B. H. Hamle tt, Insp
R. L. Reimer
E. G. Van Pelt
B. F. Bynum, M .•••••• ••• 85.80
C. R. Heinz, J. Solomon
R. ] • Collins, M .••••• ..•• 80.40
J.P. Dutt, S\V
J. B. Patter.ion, Imp
C. R. O'Harr a, ER .•.•••• • 85.40
J. E. Kilgore, M •••••• .•••
9.40
F. P . .Azlin, SW
L G. Carme r, Jr., JW
R.H. Bantz
R. E. Moore
]. D. Burlile, M .••••.• ••• 32.40
C. A. Rice, SW
W. A. Drusie, J\V
J. R. Barrows, SW ....... . 82.00
P. ]. Burdick, M ....... ... 20.00
P. D. Tipton , SW
W. R. Nelson, M .••••.• ••• 89.20
J. F. Balcom, SW
M. S.May berry, J\V
W.J.Sc hlichti ng,SW •• •••• 40.80
D. P. Shortt, M ...... ..... 17.20
G. Packer, JW
J. K. Wiison, Imp
C. R. Delaney
E. E. Webster, M . •••••.• • 77.00
D. R. Wheaton, SW
J. S. W'irth, JW
R. A. Wrede
C. C. \Vhite, M .•••••• •.• 74.40
F. B. Brassiield, S\V
F. A. Yost, JW
R. E. Hedblom
N. A. Honey, M
M. C. Snyder, S\V
E. J. Coquelle, JW
T. F. Hoey
S. Ochoa, M .•••..• •..••• • 80.60
L. G. Sanchez, JW
S. Abdallah, M .•• •••• ••••• 82.00
L. Potter, S\V
J. Dingeldein, JW
T. W. Heidner, Imp
H. D. Hanaw alt, Jr., M ..•• 20.20
W. G. Sandavol, SW
S. E. Nolan, J\V

493

Mile.
AUoUI.
Retres emiuiv es
796 E. J. McCar thy, M .•.•.•• • 90.80
P. B. Lyons, SW
T. E. Armstrong, J\V
H.F. Puthoff, Jr.
797 A. T. Bautista, M ..••.•. • 80.60
F. E. Mendoza
798 H. R. Brooke, M
W. V. Davis, JW
E. A. Koontz, P. G. Meier
A. R. Perrym an
799 s. Green, S\V .•••••• •••••• 104.40
H. F. Rosenquist
800 K. C. Byrd, SW .•.•••• •.• 83.20
H. D. Romstedt, JW
H. M. Magill
801 I. Nishimura, M ....... ... 285.09
H. Park, SW
J. P. Dennehy
802 A. A. GU, SW •••••• •..• 97.40
803 W.H.W ong
804 J. Wincn, S\V ... • • • • • • • • .. 93.00
R. A. Dreiss, Jr., JW
805 R. C. Konrad, M ••••••• ••• 83.40
D. R. ] ohnson, SW
J. A. Clapper, JW
M. Dowd, S. C•. Henzel
J. L. Shaw, Sr.
806 H. E. Entler, M .••• • .••.• 77.00
B. B. Tilden, SW
K. Neumann
R. H. O'Brien
807 G. D. Korianitis, M .•••••• • 77.00
R. C. Anderson, SW
H. I. Smith
808 0. L. Holmes, M ••••••• • •• 16.40
809 L. V. Short, M .•••••• •.••• 86.20
R. J. Loy, SW
W.R. Brown, JW
810 A. S. Atamian, M .••• •• •• 92.00
L.A. Noren, S\V
E. E. Stockebrand
811 R. Gregory, M .••••• .••••. 78.60
F. C. Michel, Jr., JW
812 M. Fernandez, M ••••••• ••• 82.00
M. H. Rush, S\V
R. Orr, J\V
813 H. Kempel, M .••••.• ••••• 74.20
L. K. Herendeen, SW
A. B. Ivie, JW
O. C. Heximer
814 W. G. Browne, M ....••. . 80.60
H. Ball. SW
No.of
Lodge

1

co

-0 N

8~

co

"'
~

~
V\

8
V\

0

00

...

...
co

8

~

Ch~

C&·liforni.a....................... 1
Western Star••••••••• •••••••••••• 2
~

~

~ebaaa.••••••••••••••••••••••••••
....................... 5
Benicia...
8

3

~lumne•••••••••••••••••••••••••

Corinthian ••••••••••••• ••••••••••

9

San Jose••••••••• ••••••••••••• ••• 10
Yount••••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 12
Bevada.••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 13
~la ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• • 14
Bureka•••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 16

La Parfaite Union ••••••••••••• ••• 17
Mountain Shade••••••• •••••••••••• 18
San Joaquin••••• •••••••••••••• ••• 19
'tra.ahington ••••••••••••• •••••••••• 20
Hawaiian •• ••••••••••••• •••••••••• 21
Occidental ••••••••••••• •••••••••• 22
Madison ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• 23
Mariposa ••••••••••••• •••••••••••• 24
Gaorqetown ••••••••••••• •••••••••• 25
Sl Dorado•••••• •••••••••••••• •••• 26
~rinity••••••••••••••••••••••••••

27

Golden Gate Speranza•••• ••••••••• 30
Gold Bill ••••••••••••• ••••••••••• 32

Ophir••••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 33
San Diego••••••• •••••••••••••• ••• 35
Howard••••• •••••••••••••• •••••••• 37
Santa Cruz•••••••• •••••••••••••• • 38
Sacramento ••••••••••••• •••••••••• 40
Martinez•••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 41
Los Angeles••••• •••••••••••••• ••• 42
Hiram••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• •• 43
Hount Moriah•••••• •••••••••••••• • 44
Crescent•••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 45

~xa.s•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 46

••••••••••••• •••••••••• 50
%llinoiatown ••••••••••••• •••••••• 51
Suisun ••••••••••••• •••••••••••• ~. 55
Volcano ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• 56
Santa Rosa•••••••• ••••••••••••••••• 57
58
Union ••••••••••••• •••••••••••••
~orbestown

Gravel Range ••••••••••••• ·••••• •.• 59

Plumas•••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 60
~ive Oalc••••••••• •••••••••••••• •• 61
Batoma••••• •••••••••••••• •••••••• 64
~dor••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 65
Horning Star••••••••• •••••••••••• 68
Bnterpr!se ••••••••••••• •••••••••• 70

Bear Mountain ••••••••••••• ••••••• 76

Calaveraa••• •••••••••••••• ••••••• 78

Jlumboldt ••••••••••••• •••••••••••• 79

t11pts1
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855

Degree

Aff'ilo

..ZAd.- lUL
100
65
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
100
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
100
75
125
100

so

75
100
100

so

150
75
75
100
100
12S
so
65
60
llS
50
7S
100
so
75
75
100
so
100
75

so
8S
as

20

10
2
5
5
2
15
5
10
18
25

5
10

2

10
18
l
10
10
10
1
10
5
s
s
10
·S
10
2
1
s
5
s
3
10

s

Jlft&
15
15
18
12
18
18
18
16
lS
18
15
12
lS
15
15
18
18
lS
25
15
18
15
12
20
20
12
16
20
21
18
12
lS
20
12
15
18
30
20
18
20
lS
20
20
15
16
18
15
20
12
18

-

8l1ld.
amma
2
~ ~
354
241
734
241
310
417
466
517
213
312
404
95
61
694
777
351
459
324
190
74
302

161

S63
126
125
1085
273
527
719
369
1149
1S6
241
206
73
lSl
80
337
1S2
623
609
108
166

719
404

100
600
364
88
134
469

7

6

8

'

10

11
1

8

s
6

'

4

6

7
2
4

6
4
10
6

l
4
6
3

s
s

s
7
s

s

6

7

4

9
4

6

6
6
2

2

4
4
1
8
2

2

s

3
32

5
4
9
3
32
6

1

s

1
4
1
11

4

1
4
2

2
2

3

2

4
2

2
2

1
1
4
16

4
l
4
18
10

4

6

11

s

2
33
4
1

s
2

4
2
38
4
2

4
2

3

3
1

8

2

:LO

11
2

5
2
11
8
1

11
8
1

10.
9

7
7

2
8

4
1

7·

'2

1

s

1

7
2

l

3

3

4

3

3

2
6

2
1
4
6

Memben

cgntrib.

131S.OS
l081.6S
2677.40
1158.40
1434,65
1400.60
1806.30
2003.15
881.25
l36l.9S
1630.90
Sl6.7S
210.45
26S0.2S
2958.00
1376,05
1647.7S
1262.3S
830.35
312.85
1341.0S
656.45
1991. 75
S96.00
543.80
5362,8S
1087.,65
1977.30
2779.0S
1409.70
5399.10
762.20
853,20
900.ss
29l.8S
653.70
308.10
1650.95
592.50
2524.SS
2408,95
Sl9.60
605.80
2821.10
1819.3S
379.SS
2307.40
1348.60
370.70
S70.40
1750.35

105,00
4SS.OO
140,00
330.00
385.00
60.00
200.00
235,00
130.00
260.00
270.00
31S.OO
70.00
70.00
140,00
190.00
60.00
330.00
23S.OO
70.00
17S.OO
70.00
1560.00
17S.OO
190.00
31S.OO
140.00
1370.00
210.00
3S,OO
200.00
175.00
3S.OO
s10.oo
· 330.00
365.00
35.00
38S.OO
40S.OO
175.00
140.00
70.00
lOS.00
10.00

:r.eap

!2•

Xon•·•••••

80

•••••••••••
•••••••••••
Yolo •••••••••••
••••••••••• •••••••• 81

Vesper•••• •••••••••••

••••••••••• •
1'ava1 ••••••••••• •••••••••••
•••••• 87
Jlose'• Bar••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 89
)iorth Star••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 91
St. Helena ••••••••••• ••••••••••• • 93
Henry ClaY•••••• •••••••••••• ••••• 95
Bornitos ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 98
Yosemite ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 99

8'

Clay•••••• ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •lOl

Oroville ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• ~03
Lexington ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 104

Arcat••••• ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •l06
•ajaro••••• ••••••••••• ••••••••••• llO

Cbico ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••• 111
Summit ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 112

Z4en•••••• ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •ll3

Concord ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 117

~idelitY·••••••••••••••••••••••••l20

Al.amo ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••• 122

Sotoyome ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 123
Hountain ••••••••••• •••••••• 124
La Payette ••••••••••• ••••••••••• • 126
Eermann ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 127
Visalia ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 128
liicolaus ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 129
Woodbridge ••••••••••• ••••••••••• • 131
Sincerity ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 132
Vacaville ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 134
Vall•Y•••• ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •l35
•acific ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 136
Crockett ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 139
CUrtia ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 140
Grafton.•• •••••••••••• •••••••••••1 41
~ranklin ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 143
Oriental ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 144
Vitruvius ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 145
.abell ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••• 146
Bel River ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 147
Lassen ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 149
.-Olino ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 150
Woodlandr •••••••••••• •••••••••••• l56
JCeystone ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 161
.Barmony ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 16'
Jlxcelsior ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 166
Alameda ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 167
Jtadwood City ••••••••••• •••••••••• 168
Kiasion ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 169
B1k Grove ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 173
J>rytc.n ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••• 17 4
~able

·························~
... ~! ~~!.:......
0
.au.:• 1an R.1..,,.'li ... .......................
............ 181

A.cbua-k-1.ie . ............. ......... , • ...... 182
Clear Lalte ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 183
Sierra Valley ••••••••••• •••••••••• 184
Claiborne ••••••••••• • • • •• • • • • • • • • .185
Evening Star ••••••••• •• ...... ••··· · .186
Keith ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••••• 187
Oaltland ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 188
Northern Light ••••• .• ••.••••••••• •• .190
Marin ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••••• 191
Santa Barbara ••••••••••• •••••••••• 192
Ferndale• • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .19 3
Mountain view ........... .......... 194
Buckeye ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 19S
San Simeon ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 196
Wilmington ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 198
Bartley ••••••••••• ••• •• •• •••••••• .199
Truckee ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 200
Silveyville ••••••••••• •••••• •. • • • • 201
Pentalpha ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 202
Confidence ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 203
Salinas ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 204
Olivet ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••• 20S
Stanialaua ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 206
Anaheim ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••••• 207
Rio Vista ••••••••••• •••••••••• •.•• 208
King oavid's ••••••••••• ••••••••••• 209
~riendahiP••••••••••••••••••••••••210

San Deni to ••• ·••••••••••• •••••••• •• 211
South San Pranciaco ••••••••.••• • • • • 212
San Buenaventu ra ••••••••••• ••••••• 214
Oak Grove ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 215
ooric •••••••• ; ••••••••••• ••••••••• 216
Monterey ........... ........... . • • • 21 7
Moaaic ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••• 218
Doll'ney ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••• 220
Inyo ••••••••••• ••••••• • ••••••••••• 221
Roseville •••• , ........... ...... • • • 222
Baltersfield ••••••••••• ••••••••••• • 224
Brooklyn ........... ........... ..... 225
sian Mateo •••.•••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 226
Athens.•••• ••·••••••••• ••••••••••• • 228
SOlano. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •·• • • • • • • .229
North Butte ••••••••.••• ••••••••••• • 230
covelo ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••• 231
Janeaville ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •• 232
Calistoga ••••••••••• ••••••••••• ••• 233
Bope ••••••••••• ••••••••••• •••••••• 234
Surprise Valley •••..,.~ .............. ... 235
Billa Perry ••••••••••• ••• ·••••••••• 236
Guadalupe. •••••• .. ••••••••••• •.·. •• 237

Charter

Degree .Ufil.

~

..!!!!... !!.!!.-- !!!!!!.

18S6
18S6
1856
l8S6
l8S6
lllS6
18S6
18S6
l8S6
l8S6
18S6
18S6
18S6
lBS7
1857
18S7
18S7
l8S7
18S7
l8S8
l8S8
l8S8
lBSS
l8S8
1BS8
l8S9
18S9
18S9
18S9
18S9
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864
1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
l.865

86
so
100
90
50
50
so
50
90
90
so
100
12S
7S
7S
90
so
lOS
115
100
7S
75
BO
7S
100
7S
so
50
13S
llS
so
100
7S
7S

,.,
J.865

1866

1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870.
1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
·1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874

so

7S
100
7S
so
50
100
so
50
so
50
100
102
100
100
50
so
75

.
75
50

llS
so
so
50
so
7S
90
100
7S
so
100
8S
7S
125•
6S
90
90
100
7S
105
so
7S
105
100
100
llS
6S
9S
100
100
100
75
100
12S
50
7S
100
75
100
90
7S
7S
so
75
so
so
75
7S
7S

10

!I

5
2
10
10
s
5

s
10
lS
5
1
2
20
s
s
12
20
5

5
10

l
2
5

s
5
1
so
10
5

II

1

2S
s
5
2
1
s
10
5
2S
10
10
5
20

26
l
s
1
10
1
10

s
10

10
10
s
10
s
s

16
20
12
24
lS
24
16
16
12
ls
16
lS
20
20
18
lS
12
18
18
lS
24
lS
21
20
24
20
12
20
18
20
18
16
ls
20
12
2S
15
20
2.C
12
lS
20
lS
16
12
18
16
18
18
18
l.S

rt4
20

18
24
12 .

lB

lS
24
18
18
20
24
18
lS
20
lS
16
lS
20
20
20
18
24
20
21
18
18
lS
18
20
lS
18
24
18
24
18
so
18
lS
22
18
24
lS
24
18
lS
18
18
11

15
12
20

~

!!!!!.:.. !!!!!! !!!!!!

105
92

1
J.

970
99
103
127
90
111
'16
98
370
594
313
3S6
591

15

2'2

Bl

422
323
564
467
230
366
205
137
S33
148
199
82
310
101
.C37
326
102
98
119
260
134
329
262
237
144
314
'8

32
299
379
616
.C71
151
70

llt
123
75

.169
36
71
7S
178
SS4
llS
478
360
88
397
124
100
604
2S2
132
141
329
122
S47
138
616
529
164
390
649
161
214
441
4S6
319
278
314
698
141
S26
66S
334
S42
206
432
307
S9
137
104
98
94
163
268

'

'
'2
9

'

1
1

3

1

'

2
1
14

2
2
2
3
l
3

10
6

'

11
2

'
'23
'7

10
6
3

3

1

3
14
2
7
6
2
9
2
9
9
4
14
4
s
12
3
2
2
6
2
4
2
1

3

1

'7
14
1
4
8
1
9
1
8
9
5
14
4

7
2
6
9
7
7
8
5
4
2
4
7
2
6.

11
1
4
2
6
3
1
2
1

2
1
1

2
2
6
2
3
1
3
1

4
1
s
4
3
l
6
1

s
11
s
s

3
7
7

4
2

'52

'

4
2

l

6
2
4
1
4
1
2
6
3

2

2

2

4

3
3
1
s
3
1
7

2
s
1
3
4
l

8
1
8
3
1
1
2

5
3
3
7
9
4
7
8
2
12
6
7
2
s
11
lS
2
20
8
7
3
4
3

2
2

2
9
1
2
1
3
2
3
3
10
6
1
8
9
1
9
14
3
2
7
10
12
2
13
8
1
7
3
4
2

'2

8
2
2
1
2
2
4
3
10
11
4
s
10
1
6
12
s
2
6
13
10
3
10
I;

4
7
4
s
4
1

l
2

l

3
8

6
8

402.25
378.40
1048.10
3860 •.6S
OS.SS
393.90
481.00
348.0S
'33.SO
1811.30
338.10
1'31.0S
2S7S.lS
ll79.8S
1466.0S
2161.SS
34S.S5
1818.30
ll80.4S
2264.10
1945.2S
940.60
1802.80
84S.lS
681.65
2288.8S
621.60
76S.l0
360.90
1326.6S
422.00
1523.SS
1199.70
383.00
338.10
.cio.ss
961.20
487.SO
1664.70
981.90
874.9S
SBB.90
lUS.80
203.60
110.40
1123.40
1761.40
222S.SS
l777.9S
883.S5
314.05
iH
45!1.!IO
257.30
792. 70
196.20
388 .• 0S
302.SO
738.9S
1910.45
467.30
1873.95
1386.30
305.60
1682.8S
461. 20
342.10
2375.00
976.9S
49S.40
472.70
1160.30
604.90
1978.00
S86.65
2433.40
2IS2.25
711.3S
1621. 70
2S40.00
6S4.4S
1162.00
1778.10
1806.4S
1131.70
1176.7S
1492.80
28S6.2S
560.00
2SS0.80
2601.40
1126. 2S
2126.40
890.35
1619.2S
1149.00
2so.10
S77. 7S
408.80
400.75
320. 8S
706.3S
123S.35

... :a••

I
1

1

ADD. Return
Payment

s
7

Membeza
Contrib.

~

°'

60.00
190.00
52S.OO
140.00
3S.OO
so.oo
9S.OO
140.00
us.oo
9S.OO
210.00
210.00
36S.OO
70.00
315.00
24S.OO
140.00

420.00
10.00
285.00
70.0Cl
140.00
10.00

10.00
35.00
700.00
10.00

----9S.OO
3S.OO
lOS.00
4SO.OO
210.00
70.00
350.00
70.00

IM . .

17S.00
10.00
10.00
uo.oo
10.00
23S.00
15S.00

30S.00
2s.oo
280.00
10.00
3S.OO
70.00
245.00
140.00
lOS.00
295.00
31S.00
140.00
245.00
30S.OO
60.00

235.00
270.00
35.00
210 .oo
410.00
S25.00
3S.OO
100.00
30S.OO
270.00
180.00
140.00
70.0()
so.oo
110.00
50.00
10.00.
130.00
30S.OO

~

'°
""'1

Charter
~

Colusa ••••••••••••••••••••.• ••••••• 240
Santa Ana •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 241
Magnolia •••••••••• , ... ,,., •••••• ,. 242
Bucalyptus •••••••••••••••••••••• •• 243
Alcatraz •••• , .. ,, •••••••••••••• , •• 244
Laurel ...................... ...... 24S
Pomona •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 246
Presno •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 247
Alturas ••••• , •••••••• , ............. 248
Adin ••••••••••••••••••••• , •• , ••••• 2SO
Landmark •••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 253
Reading ••••••••• ~ ........... . ..... 2S4
Welcome •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• 2SS
Lodi ...................... ........ 2S6
Penrhyn •••• , , , , • , •• , , , , ........... 2s e
Evergreen •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 259
Xing Solomon's Seaport., •••••••••• 260
Tuacan •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 261
Lompoc.•••••••••••• ••••••••••••••• 262
Besperian •••• ,, •••••• , , , •••••••••• 264
Orland ....................... ...... 26S
Galt •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••••• 267
Durant •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 268
Olive Branch •••••••••••••••••••••• 269
Snow Mountain ••••••••••••••••••••• 271
Pasadena ••••• , ••••••• ,,,., ........ 272
Anchor •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 273
Arroyo •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 274·
Oakdale ••••• , , , ••••• , , ............ i7 s
Selma •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••• 277
Southern California ••••••••••••••• 278
Hanford •• •.• •• ,,,., •••••• , •••••• , •• 279
Madera ••••• ,., •• , ••••••••••••••••• 280
Mount Shasta ••••• ,,., •• , •••••••••• 281
Callayomi •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 282
South West ............. , •••••••••• 283.
Paso Robles ....... , ••••••••• , ••••• 286
Winnedumah ••• ,, •• ,.,, ••• , •• ,, ••••• 287
Maxwell ••••••• ,., •• .• •• , ........... 288
Elainore •••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 289
East Gate •••••• ~ •••••••••••••••••• 290
Santa Paula •••••••••••••••••••••• • 291
Los Gatos, ........ , ...... , ••• , •••• 292
Orange Grove •••••••••••••••••••••• 293
Traver ••••••••••••••••••• , ••• , •••• 294
Mount Jackaon ••••••••••••••••••••• 295
Silver Gate ••• , ••••••• , ....... , •••• 296
Dunsmuir •••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 297

LibertY••••••••••·•~••••••••••••••299

"941 •ads ............. ··~· ••• , •• , • , , JOO

Degree Affil,
...!'.!!!__ !!!!..._ ~

190

50
100
100
99
75
50
115
80
65
50
so
90
90
7S
50
7S
llS
so
100
7S
so
75
80
7S
75
llS
125
75
75
80
75
100
7S
90
75
105
7S
100
7S
75
75
90
7S
100
80
75
100
so
125
75

1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
lB99
1900
1901
1902
1902

125
120
100
50
75
75
100
115
75
55
100
100
100
100
100
115
9p
75
125
125
100
125
105
125
53
115
165
100
75
65
125
100
125
100

1902

65

1875
1876
187.6
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878
1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
-~:n
1882
1883
1683
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
188S
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
~890

10
10
10
5
1
2
1

3

s
2

s
s

-1

5
1
3

10
1
1
5
10

.~!!!!.!!.
2
11
10
16
4
4
2
9
2
1
1
14
2
6
1
lS
3
1
lS
4

~

~

3
7
9
15
6
2
5
15
1
1
1
12
2
s
2
12
3

4
7
8
13
6
1
7
15
2
1
2
9
2
7
2
14
3

12
3
3
5
3
5
2
2
5
4
8
1

9
5
4
5
6
4
1
6
2
4
4
1

3
3
9
4
11
1
4

1
2
6
4
11
1
3

2
3
5
15
18
2

2
4
4
13
18
2
2
6
4
9
4

18
21
18
30
15
18
25
18
18
12
16
30
2S
15
12
24
18
18
20
18
18
ls
20
2S
12
20
20
20
18
20
18
18
20
2S
18
20
15
18
18
18
12
24
21
18
20
21
24
15
24
20

162
562
548
538
'402
214
403
608
162
96
98
3SS
19S
380
lSl
653
460
76
386
439
171
lOS
273
267
43
434
495'
221
219
197
31S
208
2Sl
186
62
534
323
247
SS
12S
484
394
467
434
134
118
1083
212
396
476

18
25
18

12
3
5

5

4
3

4
3

18
22
24
SO
12
15
18
18
24
24
40
20
20
16
16
16
15
15
20
36
12
18
25
20
15
18
21
25
20
25

336
250
211
86
176
160
301
342
289
191
516
369
225
555
593
398
509
296
592
783
120
192
284
544
146
581
1048
650
156
118
420
423
709
514

2

3
2
6
13
1
5
3
3
4

1
8
12
17
10

2
2
5
16
1
6
3
3
5
6
9
5
9
3
9
12
4
4
2
6
3
19
16
8
1
1
6
6
12
17

20

170

S

5

3
1
5
2
4
6
6
s
2
1
2
3
6
4
15
4
1
1
3
9
8
19
3
2
7
3
10
4

4

6
4
12
3

Ann. Return
Pavment

Members
Co:ntrib.

634.45
2392.85
2425.35
2572.15
1419.55
847.35
1475.20
2397.25
589.05
365.75
359.85
1736.80
816.SS
1564.00
49S.40
2820.SS
1701.00
284.40
2028.90
1720.8S
S90.90
SOl.80
991.lS
1099.80
213.00

70.00
460.00
430.00
710.00
140.00
105.00
95.00
340.00
105.00

1650.15
1900.SS
1026.10
909.60
764.SS
1060;6s
769.4S
972.0S
869.2S
362.4S
241S.50
1137.90
996.25
222.30
471.2S
1767.SS
1671.60
1934.90
2285.40
567.40
524.75
4040.00
844.80
1833.05
1175.95

490.00
120.00
175.00
575.00
105.00
35.0ci
seo.oo
180.00
25.00
9S.OO
60.00
175.00
235.00
235.00
175.00
3S.OO
35.00
35.00
105.00
210.00
140.00
57S.OO
25.00
140.00
35.00
105.00
315.00
280.00
740.00
70.00

a oo.ao
s
•
•
503
10
•
ll!llllllllllJllliililllillil l..111!~~_.·1 o~a~~--ill!~~..,;~oeli'9lill
l!Jl~~~lll~.~--..~.~~--;t:--<1~--l~.:--~~iilii.~0~~~...;;iiiii.i0~--~~~-I
••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• 9
1 75.00
1181.50
3
3
s
2••
21
79
1891
a.1ai.ar•••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 30&
Santa Monic•••••••••••••••• •••••••307
Monrovia••••••••••••• •••••••••••••308
Del.ano.•••••••••••••• •••••••••••••309
Sisaon •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 310
Los Banos,,,,,, •• ,, ••••••••••••••• 312
Tehachapi,,,,, •••••••••••••••••••• 313
Temeacal •••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 314
Norwallt •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• 315
Sanger •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 316
Fallbrook •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 317
Bollenbec:k •••••••••••••••••••••• •• 319
South Gate •••••••••••••••••••••• •• 320
Aliaal •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 321
Alhambra •••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 322
Whittier.,,,,,,,,,, .. ,,,,, •• ,,., ,,323
Corona, •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• 324
Conauelo,,,,, ••••••••••••••••••••• 325
Needle••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••326
Long Baach •••••••••••••••••••••• ,.327
Redondo •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• 328
Vallee De France •• ,,,,,,,,,,,.,, •• 329
Kilauaa ...................... . ; ••• 330
Pacific Grove ••••••••••••••• ,,,, •• 331
San Pedro •••••••••••••••••••••• ,,.332
Aita ••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••• 333
CoviJla ••• , •• ,,, 0 , , , • • • , , , , , 000 , , 0 ,334
West Gate •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 335
Fruitvale •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 336
Carquinez •••••••••••••••••••••• •• ,337
San Jacinto •••••••••••••••••••••• • 338
Fullarton •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 339
Oxnard.•••••••••••••• •••••••••••••341
San Fernando •••••••••••••••••••••• 343
Starr King •••••••••••••••••••••• • ,344

Brentwoo4••••••••••• ••••••••••••••345

Palo Alto •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 346
McRinley •••••••••••••••••••••• •••• 347
San Barnardino •••••••••••••••••••• 348
Sequoia,,,,,,,, •• , ••••• , •• ,,,,,,.,349
PalestiJle •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 351
sunset •••••••••••••••••••••• •••••• 352
Pinole •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• ,353
Bollywood •••••••••••••••••••••• ••• 355
Mill Valley ••••••••••••••••••••• ,,356
Buena Park •••••••••••••••••••••• •• 357
Golden State •••••••••••••••••••••• 358
Loyalton •••••••••••••••••••••• •• ,.359
San Franciaco-Victory ••••••••••••• 360
Fort Bragg •••••••••••••••••••••• •• 361
Charity •••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• 362
BerkeleY••••••••••••• •••••••••••••363
Willita,, •••••••• , •• , ••••••• , ••••• 365
Laa Palmas •••••••••••••••••••••• •• 366
South Paaadena ••••••••••••••••••• ,367

1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905

100
115
75
100
100
100
75
125
100
125
100
50
100
75
100
75
75
75
115

15

2
2
5

1
25
12

5
25
5

10
10
5
10
l
10

5
5
1
5

18

12
20
15
24
18
20
18
21
24
20
18
12
18
24
18
12
24
25
16

682
395
1002
756
318
241
202
1023
402
535
607
67
334
147
269
659
149
1034
471

4

15

1
7
4
2
6
8
12
5
16
5
15
14
6
4
4
6
5
14

24
5

1

6

9

6
5
13
4
7
15
6
2

2

5
3
19
7
8
1
8
6
12

9
S

4
l
22
1
5
3
8
21
5
29
1

2
1
18
1
4
4
5
15
10
26
2

2
1
21
2
1
2
7
15
10
22
3

3
3
8
5
l
11
5

3
3
7
8
2
10
5

3
4
11
3
2
14
6

1642.85
1004.35
879.45
293.25
684.20
535.30
1215,85
1791,65
1035,05
1018,50
1871.55
1313,95
1044.35
2247,05
2379.00
1596.70
2590,25
1167.65
2656.15
3200.90
640,00
812.40
1152,80
2086.S5
689.70
2519.70
4484,45
2464,35
509.15
430.30
1768,75
2007,65
3055.30
1990,60
784.25
2495.70
141S.40
4307,70
2578,20
1264.85
949.40
1001.20
•21s.3D
1583,45
3017.05
2055,80
231.15
1238,70
611,80
1277.15
2402.45
575,60
3933,80
1813.35

235.00
130.00
70.00
140.00

120,00
525.00
35.00
295.00
140.00
95.00
190.00
340.00
420.00
2SO.OO
165,00
600.00
600,00
245.00
140.00
130.00
210,00
915,00
225.00
35.00
545.00
us.oo
350.00
200.00
190.00
60.00
84S.OO
35,00
140.00
305.00
'735,bO
175.00
lllS,00
las.oo
105,00
280.00
140.00
35.00
435,00
105,00

t.bdqe

!!£:.

Onity •••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••• 368
Ocean Park •••••••••••••••••••••••• 369

Amity-Seal Rock ••••••••••.••••••••• 370
l• Progre• de l'Oceanie ••••••••••• 371
Gardena ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 372

West Los Angeles •••••••••••••••••• 373
Jewel ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 374
Riclullond •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 375
Prancis Drake ••••••••••••••••••••• 376
Artesia ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 377
Xizpah •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 378
Pillmore •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 379·
Huntington Beach •••••••••••••••••• 380
Ooeanside •••••••• , •••••••••••••••• 381
Highland Park ••••••••••••••••••••• 382
Orosi ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 383
Bl Centro ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 384
Dinuba •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 385
Coalinga •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 387
Parnassus ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 388
Palos Verdes •••••••••••••••••••••• 389
Ill\l?erial ••••••••••••••••••••••.•••• 390
East Belt ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 391
West Lake•••••·•-••••r••••••••••••392

Balder •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 393
tlniversity •••••••••••••••••••••••• 394
Turlock ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 395
Apollo •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 396
Rising Light •••••••••••••••••••••• 397
Praternity •••••••••••••••••••••••• 399
Burlingame •••••••••••••••••••••••• 400
Bay View •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 401
Brawley ••••••••••••• •••.• •••••••••• 402
Yerba Buena ••••••••••••••••••••••• 403
Glendora.~··••••••••••••••••••••••404

Moneta •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 405
Burbank ••• , .••••••••••••••••••••••• 406
La Mesa ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 407
Sierra Madre •••••••••••••••••••••• 408
Honolulu •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 409
Perri•·······•••••••••••••••••• ••••ll

Calexico ............................ '12
Arlington ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 414
Silver Trowel ••••••••••••••••••••• 415
LindaaY·••••••••••••••••••••••• •••'l6
Clovi•··••••••••••••••••••••••• ···'l7

Bly•ian••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••418
Opland .................................419
Kerman ............................ ~420
·In9lewood ••••••••••••••••• ••••••• • 42I
Baqle Rock.•••••••••••••••·~···•·~422
York •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 423
•sater.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~4

a:a.. •••••••••••••••••••••••

Ill

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

•

•

Chino Va11eY••••••••••••••••••••••427

San Dimas ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 428
Pittsburg.•••••••••••••••••••••• ••429
HcCJ.oud ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 430
Alph•·•••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••43l
B&lDIDOnton ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 433
Jlaricopa •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 434
Pairmont.••••••••••••••••••••••• ••435
Claremont ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 436
Lancaster ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 437
Tyrian•••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••439
Standard •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 440
Coronado •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 441
Blackmer •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 442
Sdlofield ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 443
Caxpinteri•••••••••••••••••••••• ••444
Wilehire •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 445
La Puente •••.••••• • •••••••••••••••• 446
Torrance •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 447
Jlount Diablo••••••••••••••••••••••448
Park••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •449
van NU)"•························•·45 o
Jlootebello •••••••••••••••••••••••• 451
San P..qual•••••••••••••••••••••••452
Croclter ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 454
Golden West•••••••••••••••••••••••455
llallon•·••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••457
Benry s. Orme ••••••••••••••••••••• 458
lliverbank ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 459
Mount Oso ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 460
Argonaut-Argonne •••••••••••••••••• 461
Paul Revere.••••••••••••••••••••••462
Morgan Bill ••••••••••••••••••••••• 463

Alta Vista-Mount Vernon ••••••••••• 464
center.••••••••••••••••••••·~·····'65

Libertas •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 4 6 6
CUlver City ••••••••••••••••••••••• 467
Rockridge ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 468

Yorba Linda ••••••••••••••••••••••• 469

Lincoln ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 470
Delt••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •471
LOdge Haui •••••••••••••••••••••••• 472
Blyt.he•••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••473
America ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 475
coachell•~···•••••••••••••••••••••476

~emblor ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 477

'l'housand Oaks ••••••••••••••••••••• 478
Golden Rule.••••••••••••••••••••••479
Pellow•hiP•••••••••••••••••••••• ••480
Mt. Davidson •••••••••••••••••••••• 481
Clarence '· Smith•••••••••••••••••482
Bell •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~.483
Albert Pikea••••••••••••••••••••••484

Charter

Degree Af'f'il.·

~

..!!!!.... ...!!!.!.._ £!!!!..

~~

~ Raised

1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912

100
115
100
175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
120
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50
100
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
75
100
110
105
125
125
90
175
50
75
100
125
50
80
150
90
75
125
100
100

431
426
455

4
5
6
14
15
3
2
3
7
4

ll.11ll

so

,..,.,.

1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1920
l920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

...
50

l
5
25
5
25
1

10
5
10
20
10
1
5
5
25
10
3
25
5
10
5
3
2S

lJt

11

•

ll.I

20

90

65
75
50
75
50
so
100
75
115
75
75
100
100
140
50
100
100
110
75
100
125
100
115
100
75
100
125
75
80
115
100
75
75
80
100
100
115
100
100
lOO
50
75
115
75
50
75
100
75
100
115
100
lOO

,.

30
21
18
15
16"
17
15
12
18
18
20
20
20
15
15
25
18
12
15
18
20
18
15
15
18
18
15
18
20
20
21
18
18
18
40
12
25
20
22
15
18
18
18
18
24
20
26
18
12
15
21
24

10

18
20
18
33
16
20
20
18
18
18
20
15

15

5

l
10
10
10
10

1
10
10
1
10

5
5

5

l

lO

20
24
18
20
15
20
24
15
16
22
12
18
18
20
15
18
18
18
40
18
20
22
20
21
15
21
15
16
20
18
30
15
21
21
21
21
20
18
l8

6~2

573
438
179
337
417
257
270
217
443
540
449
142
461
245
307
852
668
121
127
497
426
353
431
368
806
386
548
553
215
756
212
387
849
592
124
391
212
113

4
6
7
17
15
3

l
2
6
6
3
18
l3
2
3
8
1
2
6
ll
3
5
3
7
2
9
2
9
11
6
9
2
7
3
2
14
11
.1
11
5
5

5
6
5
2
16
12
1
8
6
2

386
'189
584
320
280
154
li65
415
SJ2
211

i3
3
8
2
4
3
7
4
2

5
2
9
2
4
4
7
4
1

•
210

•

2llT

310
99
434
122
141
300
205
568
257
308
315
895
369
153
363
279
640
492
327
1172
658
461
460
434
479
450
145
310
530
483
146
345
432
651
382
322
193
335
443
168
:211
313
270
109
532
691
446
317
240
715
183

3
18
9
3

.,

9
2
2
5
14
3
3
2
5
2
8
2
9
11
5

1

s

&

5
4
3
5
2
3
2
12
5

7
3

11
23
3

2
6
16
12
2
27
8
5
6
3
6
2
3
10
1
3
4
4
3
12
4
6
9
6
2
4
11
2
9
1
2

2

'

2
9
4
1
2
3

l

3
4
18

5

5
4
6
20
3
3

'

14
13
3
31
8
6

'
'

3
3
4
12
2
5
4
3
7
10

'7
6

6
2
1
9
2

2
6
7
19
13
4
1
l
5
4
2
4
16
ll
4
5
9
3
2
5
12
4
3
2
6
4
13
4
8
ll
6
4
5
8
3
3
20
13
1
ll
5.

3
l
5
4
11
3
4
3
8
2
1
3
g

4
1

'

2
1
4
3

14
7
4
3
8
23
2
2
4
16
13
8
31
7

4

5
3
5
2
2
9
3
2
2
7

s

10
3
5
6
4
2

11

12

10
1
6
1
6
8

5
2
9
3

5
2
3
2

5
1
2
1

g

1
6

Ann . Return
Payment
1644.35
1704.45
1824.40
2936.65
2556.90
1601.!15
653.10
1231.75
1635.60
1118.40
923.15
860.20
2239.65
2466.50
1615.10
611.20
1979. 70
862.10
1131;70
3131.75
2855.90
532.45'
649.15
1813.70
1708.55
1244.iO
1820.70
1313.10
3000.95
1796.25
2072.75
2218.70
841.85
2860.40
844~80

1405.25
3436.25
2522.00
. 458.90
1803.60
965.50
571·.40
l.00
1814.00
784.15
2321.05
1164..ff
1189.55
. 639.40
2575.90
1597.25
1995.65
986.75

Al!IJt"

10 22 . Z.5
941.05
1193.90
451.55
1652.25
408.65
546.65
1122.40
83~.80

2434.80
988.95
1356.35
1191.40
3496.85
2127.65
658.95
1344. 85
ll'l6.20
2779.50
2149.35
1271.15
5065.30
2567.05
1750.25
1770.60
1604.40
1878.25
1596.00
597.00
1465.15
1846.20
1789.10
700.25
1355.45
1603.50
26"87.60
1473.20
1293,05
.J.045.95
1364.50
1600.90
717. 70
1174.50
1141.05
1282.15
369.20
1952.15
2857.70
1500.75
1319.85
889.20
2747.45
732.00

Members
Contrib.

en

8

uo.oo

235.00
270.00
525.00
550.00
105.00
35.00
70.00
210.00
235.00
105.00
550.00
605.00
70.00
130.00
390.00
35.00
210.00
535.00

245.00
70.00
390.00
70.00
315.00
435.00
175.00
315.00
95.00
245.00
130.00
70.00
540.00
485.00
435.00

455.00
130.00
305,00
215.00
105.00
270.00
190.00
70.00
235.00
~l!l .ar-

;.13!1.0Q
200.00

-

70.00
175.00
105.00
120.00
445.00
270.00
105.00
460.00
515.00
130.00
95.00
105.00
560.00
420.00
995.oo·
305.00
200.00
210.00
105.00
260.00
70.00
105.00
410.00
60.00
95.00
165.00
165.00
35.00
420.00
165.00
210.00
365.00
210.00
70.00
140.00
350.00
70.00
340.00
35.00
120.00
460.00
225.00
315.00
105.00

en
0

Lodge

Ho.

Chowchilla •••••••••••••••••••••••• 485
Caledonia ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 486
Vallejo ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 487
Patterson ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 488
~ast Bay •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 489
Corcoran •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 490.
Woods tock ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 491
Garvanza ••••••••••••••••••••.•••••• 492
Atascadero ••••••••••••••••• ·• •••••• 493
Acorn ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 494
Lebsnon ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 495
Fremont ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 497
Stockton .......................... 49 8
Capital City •••••••••••••••••••••• 499
Roosevelt •••••••••••••••••••••••• ,500
Westwood •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 501
Harbor •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 502
·Point ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 503
Seaside ••••••••••••••• ••• ••••• •• •• 504
Silver Cord ••••••••••••••••••• •• •• 505
Mount Olive ....................... 506
El Segundo •••••••••••••••••••••••• 507
Joppa ............................. 508
Benjamin Franklin ••••••••••••••••• 509
Cupertino •••••••••••••••••• •.• ••••• 510
Sunnyvale • • ••••••••••••••••••••••• 511
Palms ••.•••• ••••••••••••••••••••••• 512
Cahuenga •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 513
Vermont Square •••••••••••••••••••• 515
Taft.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••516
La Jolla •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 518
Euclid •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 519
Ionic ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 520
Piedmont •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 521
Sunriae ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 522
Bellflower ••••••••••••••••••••••• ,"523
Catalina Ialand ••••••••••••••••••• 524
George Washington ••••••••••••••••• 525
.Bay City •• , ••••••••••••••••••••••• 526
Covenant •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 527.
Beverly Bills ••••••••••••••••••••• 528
Loyalty ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 529
Sun Garden •••••••••••••••••••••••• 530
Alexandria •••••••••••••••••••••••• 531
Smyrna •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 532
Azure ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 533
Forest Bill ••••••••••••••••••••••• 534
Alexander Hamilton •••••••••••••••• 535
Utopia ••••••••••••••• , •••••••••••• 537
Aacot •••••• ~···•••••••••••••••••••538
Queen Beach ••••••••••••••••••••••• 5,0

BellXY More• S~ephentt•••••••••••••·~~i

Jlorth Hollywood.••••••••••••••••:: s• ].
Signal•••••••••••••••••••••••••~ .54&
Glendal•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 545
Veritas-Jonathan••••••••••••••••••S46

San Gabriel •• ••••••••••••••••••••• 5 47

Arcadi•••••••••••••••••••••••••••·sca
~riangl•·•••••••••••••••••••••••••scg

Justice••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 5 l
Lakeshore•••••••••••••-••••••••••• 5~ 2
Semper Virens•••••••••••••••••••••
Bduoator •••••••••••••••••••• ~····• 554
White Pin•••••••••••••••••••••••••;~~
Fairfax••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 7
Bexmo••···························ss
Point •irmin •••••••••••••••••••••• s~;
craftsmen•••••••••••••••••••••••••i&o
PJ.ymoUth··························
Bast san Diego•••••••••••••••••••• ~:1
2
!'yrami4•••••••••••••••••••••••••••s63
South Park••••••••••••••••••••••••s6'
Foothill.•••••••••••••••••••••••••565
west AdllDll••••••••••••••••••••••••
Jame• A· Garfield ••••••••••••••••• s:;
Searchlight ••••••••••••••••••••••• ~68
Park Boulevard•••••••••••••··~··•• 569
Chateau 'l'hierJ:Y•••••••••••••••••••
Military Sarvice •••••••••••••••••• 570
~ranci• x. Shattuck ••••••••••••••• ~~i
James Madison ••••••••••••••••••••• ,
s.
w. Backett•••••••••••••••••••··~ 75
~ort crook •••••••••••••••••••••••• 7
Bl Cajon Vall8J'••••••••••••••••••• 576
SllDllY&idee••••••••••••••••••••••··~~~
Progreaeive •••••••••••••••••••••••
WarreD G. Bardinge•••••••••••••••579
Santa Maria••••••••••••••••••••••• 58
59 ~

Securitf··························
Jlialto••••••••••••••••••••••••••··~=~

Wasco ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 84
Barding.••••••.••••••••••••••••••• •5 5
Manchester ••••• ~··••••••••••••••••58
Garden Grove••••••••••••••••••••••5867
Valley Forge •• •••••••••••••••••••· 55:
Bl sereno ••••••••••••••••••••••••• :
9
Kauai •• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••·~90
Compass ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 591
BscalOD••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 92
~ujunga•••••••••••••••••••••••····~93
All state••••••••••••••••••••••••• 9,
service ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• s

Alexander Graham Bell ••••••••••••• 595

Charter

Degree

Affil.

~

~

~

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

75
100
75
75
l.00
75
75
75
75
80
100
100
80
100
100
80
75
105
125
105
125
100
50
150
75
150
125
100
100
so
115
100
215
100
75
125
135
100
100
100
125
150
80
75
75
125
l.00
100
75
100

19~0

1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
·1921
1921
1921
1921
192l
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923

un
1923

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

~

~!ill.:. ~

~

10

16
18

10

16

174
552
354
175
287
121
363
238
144
531
309
438
176
5·54
169
209
489
330
481
578
810
456
94
240
251
432
388
470
313
253
334
273
1316
452
361
606
113
332
360
210
459
797
476
158
226
397
164
226
439
273
177

5
12
7
3

1.8
38
18
18
18
16
24
.24
18
18
15
15
18
20
21
20
20
20
18
15
18
15
36
21
20
15
20
18
22
25
24
18
21
20
18
21
20
20
18
36
20
15
21
24
20
20
18

1
1
10
10
15
30

1

5
15

25
10

10
10
10
25
5
5
10
5

18

l.00

""'9

125
100
100
100
l2S
100

us

100
100
so
80
SS
100
100
12S
100
90
75
100
100
100
100
12S
110
100
100
100
7S
100
130
100
100
12S
100
l2S
80
100
llS
llS
llS
12S
120
100
12S
7S

us
so

125
100
100

115

o._

s

s

20
18
18
18
18

2S

so

10
5
2

s

5

7S
10
10
s

s

10
20
10
10
5
s

1
10

5

20
18
24
18
15
12
24
16
22
16
18
16
20
25
18
20
22
20
18
24
21
18
18
lS
lS
20
lS
lS
lS
lS
23
20
23
18
20
lS
18
18
lS
21
18
18
18
20
18

243
909
47S
730
268
553
493
324
34'
23S
306
328
97
479
404
291
282
339
859
267
332
914
253
204
356
334
294
249
180
256
S46
219
614
317
424
63S
136
372
337
282
276
25S
513
360
352
lOS
342
151
360
Sl6
843
230

6
10
1

5
9
10
2
3

1
2

l.

3
7
5
4
·2
5
2

3
8
2
3
1
4
2

10

9
5
8
9
11
4
1
8
3
15
2
5
1
2
5
1
13
6
2
13
l
1
1
1
4
19
8
3
4
4
2
2

6

4

11
12
6
5
2
6
2
16
2
9
1
2
6
1
16
5
20
1
1
2
2
5
19
6

1
8
4
1
2
4
1

847. 85
2131.05
1619 •.85
641.30
990.10
454.45
1296. 30
804.85
602.90
2074.35
1234. 80
1652.75
675.30
2095.40
659.05
701,35
2087.90
1273.80
2092.85
2454.30
2950.80
1799.85
381.05
1086.10
980.15
2080.10
1353.50
1935.65
1094.70
924.70
1652.30
939. 45
5071. 7S
1809 .15
1221. 85
2812.40
418.50
1185.25
1315.00
795.90
1787.05
3596.05
1836".10
608.65
1072.25
1600.65
602. 35
840.90
1584.65
966.05

j

1
2
1
2
10
4
5
2
7
2
1
6

7
7
8
19
3
1
6
3
12
3
5
2
2
4
2
15
6
2
12
2
2
1
4
21
7
3
4
8
2
1
2
1
4

-

1
3

63;&,3Q

801.40
3443.30
1818.05
2854.7S
1096. 80
2316,40
2237.35
1480,3S
1278.20
1023,30
1090.80
1296.90
337.&S
1907,55
1726,9S

1

•'

5
3

5
3
6

9

s

8
2

4
8
10
9
5
1
3
3
1
s
9

9

1'
9
3
s
1
s

6
10
2

s

1
8
6
4
3
3
2
9
9
4
2
2
12

3

1
2

2

14
5
3

11

'J.
2
1

lO~.lS

2
2

'11

6

8

1
2

s

1

7

3

4

'5

3
1
8

2
1
4

5
24
1
8

6
14

11

6

2
3

6

1

11

7
10

6

7
10

7
10

9

6

13
6
1

13
2
4
3

9
1
2
9
18
s

9

s
s

12
8
2
1
8

2
4
lS
23
6

3

6

.

Ann. Return Members
Contrib.
Payment

9

2
6

12
6

2
8

18

s

975.90
1260.20
3393.30
1093.70
1145,00
3:168.35
929.60
732.45
1475.80
1168.60
1112,05
855.60
752.75
1054,BS
2097.90
969,10
3065.05
1115. 85
1747.55
2602.30
675.75
1417.75
1440.30
1230.00
1323.75
869,40
2292,50
1513,85
1256,90
401.25
1500.55
618.95
1359.80
2319,9S
3797,00
1005. 70

(.It

0

N

210.00
375.00
25.00
35.00
175.00
245.00
175.00
140.00
70.00
175.00
70.00
400.00
140.00
435.00
445.00
210.00
225.00
85.00
560.00
70.00
340.00
70.00
70.00
485.00
35.00
4"55.00
225.00
770.00
35.00
60.00
70.00
70.00
225.00
'890.00
235.00
280.00
240.00
35.00
35.00
70.00
35.00

--

~

340.00
155.00
365,00
175.00
285.00
575,00
375.00

--

200.00
70.00
17S.00

-----165,00
350.00

---10.00

60.00
410.00
165,00
35.00
235.QO
70.00

--lOS.00

-----------

17S.OO
210.00
1os.oo
940.00
35,00
280,00
385.00
200.00
175.00
295.00
245.00
350.00

---495.00
245.00

10.00

35.00
175.00

------

165.00
490.00
725.00
210.00

(.It

0

~

Lodge

!2.:.

Guardian •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 596

Pearl Barbor •••••••••••••••• , ••••• 598
Carmelita ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 599
Lynwood.••••••••••••••••••••••••••600
Grizzly ••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~.601
Melrose • •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 602
Dimond •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 603
Jubilee ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 604
Glassell Park •.••••••••• , •••••••••• 60.5
Sojourner ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 607
Granada ••••••••••••••••• , ••••••••• 608
Provident ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 609
Elmhurst •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 610
Canoga •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 611
Temple City ••••••••••••••••••••••• 612
Three Pillars ••••••••••••••••••••• 613
Larchmont • •••••••• , ••••••••••••••• 614
Bemet ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 615
R. B. Dolley ••••••••••••••• •• ••••• 616
Big Bllar ••• , •••••••••••••••••••••• 617·
Southland ••••••••••.••••••••••••••• 618
Neptune ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 619
Point Loma •••••••••••••••••••••••• 620·
The Gardens ••••.••••••••••••••••••• 6 2].,
At:\tater ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 622
llenorah ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 623
Angeles Mesa •••••••••••••••••••••• 625
Chula Vista ••••••••••••••••••••••• 626
Lamanda Park ••.•••••••••••••••••••• 627
Truth ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 628
Fairview •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 629
Ingleside ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 630
Benevolence ••••••••••••••••••••••• 631
Normal Heights ••••••••.•••••••••••• 632
Poinaettia • ••••••••••••••••••••••• 633
Victorvil·le ••••••••••••••••••••••• 634
Riverside ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 635
John Marshall •••••••• .••••••••••••• 636
Paliaades ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 637
COlll>OSi te • • • • , , , ••• , • • • • • • • • •• • • • • 6.39
JBmes A. Poehar ••••••••••••••••••• 641
LA CUmbre •••••••••••••••••••••••• ,642
~;: - Loma.•••••• ••• •.• ••••••••• • ••• 643
ta.••••••• •••••••••••••••••••• 644
A.F.B. Irvin ••••.•••••••••••••••••• 645 .
Metropolitan •••••••••••••••••••••• 646 .
Hawthorne ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 64 7
Damascus •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 648
Florence •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 649
La Brea ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 650
Menlo Park •••••••••••••••••••••••• 65.l.
Crescenta Valley •••••••••••••••••• 652
Fontana ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 653
Jordan •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 654
V~•t•••••••••••··~····•••••

•5

············-····-···

3obll D. 8preckeJ.a ••••••••••••••••• es7

Li.vingaton • •••• • •• ·• • • ••••••••••••• 65 8
La Babr•••••••••••••••••••••••••••6S9

Baldwin Park••••••••••••••••••••••660
Maltae••••••••••••••••••••••••••••661
Benzy J:nax••••••••••••••••••••••••662
Oja1••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••663

Kaweah.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••665
Reseda •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 666
Maridian •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 667

San Gorcionio •••••••••••••••••••••• 668
John P. Jarman••••••••••••••••••••669
Greenleaf ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 670
San Clemente •••••••••••••••••••••• 671
Laguna Beach •••••••••••••••••••••• 672

Par Ke•t••••••••••••••••••••••••••673
Loa Cerritos••••••••••••••••••••••67'
Modeato•••••••••••••••••••••••••••675
Willow Glen.••••••••••••••••••••••676
Libera1 Art8••••••••••••••••••••••677
Altadena ••••••••• •• •••• •••. •• ••• • 678
Canby cro••·••••••••••••••••••••••671
Caxmel.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••680
Dos Paloa•••••••••••••••••••••••••681
Barstow.••••••••••••••••••••••••••682
Redwood Bmp1r•••••••••••••••••••••683
Trona•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••684
San Marino •• ••••••••••••••••••••••685
AlbanY••••••••••••••••••••••••••••686
Viata.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••687
Oildale•••••••••••••••••••••••••••688
Pohon•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••689
San Carlos •••••••••••••••••••••••• 690
Zn.C!ian Wells Vall•Y•••••••••••••••691
Travelers ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 692
Palm Springs••••••••••••••••••••••693
San Antonio•••••••••••••••••••••••694
Meudell ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 695
Croaaroada •••••••••••••••••••••••• 696
Saint Blmo••••••••••••••••••••••••697
William D. Stephens ••••••••••••••• ~98
Bizby Knolls ••••••••••••••••••• ~ •• 699
Pondero•••••••••••••••••••••••••••700
Santa Ynes Valley •• ••• •••••••••••• 701
Rosemead •••••••••••••••••••••••••• 702
Westcheater ••••••••••••••••••••••• 703
El Cerrito •••••••••••••••••••••••• 705
Buntera Point Naval ••••••••••••••• 706
Lake Tahoe••••••••••••••••••••••••707
saafaring•••••••••••••••••••••••••708
Lorenzo•••••••••••••••••••••••••••709
Allacapa ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 710

Charter Degree lifil.
~ ..!!!!..._ ..!!!!..._ ~
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925.
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927.
1927
1927
1927
1927
7

1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950

100
150
115
125

so

90
100
75
75
115
100
100
100
135
100
100
100
90
100
75
100
125
120
100
75
175
90
125
115
140
·100
90
100
105
100
90
75
100
100
175
100
75
100
125
125

:ioo

100
75
125
75
125
125
125
100

10
5
1

10
15
10
5

5

25
10
1
20
10
3

5
10
10

lOQ

100
100
75
175
75
115
125
115
65
75
100
100
100
75
100
75
75
100
50
100
115
100
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80
75
100
125
90
100
75
100
100
100

26
21
20
18
15
18
20
18
20
18
20

18

20
24
15
25
15
18
25
25
20
20
18
1
ao

5
5
5

3

1
10
25
1
10
10
10
1

1
5
10

10
5

10
10
1

1

lC>
1

~

JfrlS"ed

889
601
320
539
113
252
216
431
366
285
659
473
239
451
466
413
311
387
231
184
327
296
663
457
313
1272
587
749
:188
264
245
175
237
817
725
342
625
280
377
721
180
296
328
372
236
165
541
696'

19
11
1
8

14
13
2
5

u

6
1
10
5
4
6
5
1
3
5
6
4
6
2
6
6
8
11
6
4
28
4
15
1
3

6
1
12
4
3
7
6
1
4
5
4
4
6
2
9
7·
8
8
4
5
24
5
15
1
7
2
1
5
13
10
10

13
4
7
815

20
20
15

335
375
238
345
182
134
903
487
257
312
827
198
237
294
526
540
382
410
443
119
244
155
500
129
155
462
205
396
284
87
447
446
194
321
276
245
322
302
205
416
371
162
257
429
224
198
l.09
576
388
290

,.,

4

2
9
6
3
8
2
4
7

u

2
2
13
6
9

1

l.88

25
18
21
20
24
18
25
20
18
19
'25
21
18
20
18
20
20
18
24
18
18
30
18
20
25
12
24
21
20
20
20
25
18
18
20
20
25
24
l.8
30
25
21
18
16
18
18

1
4
11
11
12
9
3
3
7
1
6
2
9
4
4
5
16
1
3

11

18

so

120
100
75
100

JO

20
24

J.2!i

90
125
115
75
125
105

15
15
20
24
15
20
24
.24
18
30
21
20
20
18
17
18
18
18
20
25
21
25
21
24
20
16
15
20

Member&" !!!!!:.:.

1
7

4
8
14
5
1

'

4
14
5
5
7
8
9
5
4
10
11

'

6
3
4

7
12
3
3

10

s

3
16

'

3
6
6
5

'

3
10
9
4
5
2
2

19
5

19
6

8

11
4

'
14
8

7

'7

1

5
8
2
4
10
11

7

2
4
5
5
8
3
5
29
6
11
1
9
1
1
3
14
13
10
7
5
3
9
2
4
2
8
1
3
7
12
2
4
11
9
5
2

13

3

1
13

6

7

10

1
18
3
1
5

16
4

11
4
5
1
5
2
10
5
3
8
3
1
6
4
3
4

2

1

'2

1
7
17
4
4
8

7
3
8

8
9
2
2
7
3
6
3
2
9
10
6

2

'
'2
'2
18
6

8
5
8

'

4
3
7
10
6
6

1
l
1
1
14

'

1
7
3
19
8
1

'

lf
2
3
5
7

'7

8

9

'2

5
6
6
3

19

13
8

Ann. Return
Pavment

Member•
Contrib.

3798.00
2490.00
1121.85
2179.95
383.95
1044.65
773.85
1948.25
1449.10
1105.65
2501.95
1803.60
859.10
1671.35
1814.80
1637.50
1197.35
1775.35
838.45
885.35
1381.15
1311.85
2742.95
1716.85
1216.60
5551.10
2174.95
3411.25
104.6.25
1046.85
844. 80
634.85
969.65
3302. es
2906,45
1681.90
2538.20
1083.00
1414.50
2801.40
666.75
1294.60
1216.35
1645.80
957.75
709.90
2093.20
3003.20
40.00
909.20
1633.05
2215.20
1519.20
UU.05

750.00
385.00

23711.90
822.60
1482.60
1809.40
983.95
1239.00
799.00
611.30
3725.75
1848.00
1053.50
1322.15
3145.65
1073.85
1066.85
1185.85
2160.65
2300.40
1469.30
1641.50
1672.10
547.20
842.80
572.75
2496.55
548.70
572.75
1769 .65
712.25
2345.95
1142.75
298. 70
1817.70
2140.80
830.50
1492.10
1365.50
996.35
1251.55
1332.10
1276.25
1744.85
1409.25
663.55
1140.30
1665.60
1147.80
754.20
547.05
2401.05
1740.35
1313.05

C.n

0

~

280.00
210.00
35.00
450.00
70.00
140.00
235.00
175.00
35.00
130.00
200.00
210.00
175.00
435.00
130.00
140.00
210.00
410.00
210;00
140.00
1030.00
800.00
60:00
180.00
35.00
140.00
460.00
385.00
445.00
355.00
105.00
25.00
260.00
95.00
365.00
140.00
140.00
175.00
560.00
35.00
130.00
530.00
140.00
235.00
35.00
210:00
140.00
295.00
490.00
165.00
105.00
590.00
175.00
200.00
245.00
280.00
425.00
250.00
165.00
175.00
435.00
165.00
210.00
130.00
35.00
730.00
105.00
35.00
175.00
70.00

eeo.oo

20Q.OO
260.00
560.00
70.00
380.00
410.00
140.00
245.00
540.00
140.00
105.00
160.00
245.00
175.00
285.00
70.00·
165.00
400.00
385.00
295.00

C.n

0

C.n

:Lodge

~

Rim of the World••••••• •••••••••••711

Los Altos ••••••••••••• •••••••••••• 112
Castro Valley ••••••••••••• •••••••• 713

Blue Lakes.•••••• •••••••••••••• •••714
Magnolia Park.•••••••• ••••••••••••7 15

Belmont Shore •••••••• ,,,,,,,,,,,,,7 16
Wayfarer ••••••••• ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,717

San Lorenzo Valley ••••••••••••• • ,,718
Bstero.,,,, .,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,719
Mineral lting.,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,7 20
Bome ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• •••• 721
~eorge E. Tutt,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,72 2
Acalanes ••••• ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,723
San Ramon Valley ••••••••• ,,,,,,,,,724
Saint John's••••••• •••••••••••••• •725
Yucaipa••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••726
Verdugo Bills•••••••• ••••••••••••7 27
Lakewood •• •••••••••••••• ••••••••••728
Centennial.• •••••••••••••• ••••••••729
Polaris ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• • 730
~o Rivers••••••• •••••••••••••• •••731
San Juan.•••••••• •••••••••••••• •••732
Golden Empire•••••• •••••••••••••• •733
Kit Carson.••••• •••••••••••••• ••••734
oasis of Mara ••••••••••••• •••••••• 735
Lemon Grove••••••• •••••••••••••- ••736
Billsborough ••••••••••••• ••••••••• 737
Arvin ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• ••• 738
La Canada.••••• •••••••••••••• •••••739
OpportunitY •••••••••••••• •••••••;.740
!'yre.•••••••• ••••••••••••• ••••••••741
Morningside Park••••••••• •••••••••742
Oakwood ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• • 743
San Leandro.•••• •••••••••••••• ••••744
Peninsula ••••••••••••• •••••••••••• 745
Soquel ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• •• 746
Claude H. Morrison ••••••••••••• ••• 747
Bighland ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• 748
Merced ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• •• 749
Mother Colony • ••••••••••••• ••••••• 750
Hamilton ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• 751
Luther Burbank••••• •••••••••••••• •752
Lawndale.••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••753
San Pablo . •••••••••••••• ••••••••••754
Golden Bmtl ••••• • ••••••••••••• •••• 755
Clayton Valley • ••••••••••••• •••••• 756
Chan.nel ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• • 757
West Covina.••••• •••••••••••••• •••758
El Rancho.••••• •••••••••••••• •••••759
Lakeside.••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••760
Josiah w. Roller ••••••••••••• ••••• 761
Coaatside ••••••••••••• •••••••••••• 762
Arabic.••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••763

Ber~t•CJ8••••••••••••••••••••••••••76C

•• ••1J.er ••••••••••••• •••••

5

.
- · · · · : : : : •• &8
senlth·••••••
••• 4 ·•-• •· •· ·•••••••
769

Pal.mdale •• •••••••••••••• ••••••••••770
Lake Chabot•••••• •••••••••••••• ••• i
)1iss'ion Bay• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 77
772
Avenal•••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••773
'J!ejOn•••••• •••••••••••••• •••••••••774
Wailtiki••••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••775
San Dieguito.••• •••••••••••••• •••• 6
zast Wb.ittier ••••••••••••• •••••••• 77
777
~innacle ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• 778
La Mirada.••••• •••••••••••••• •••••779
Five Point•·••••• ••••••••••:::: :::1so
JU.viera••••• •••••••••••••• •
Rolling u1i1a ••••••••••••• •••••••• 781
78 2
Silverado••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••783
)lojave •• ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• 784
I.eland Stanford•••• •••••••••••••• •785
paramount ••••••••••••• •••••••••••• 786
Jlio Linda••••••• •••••••••••••• ••••787
wastminater ••••••••••••• •••••••••• 788
Sierra ••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• •• 789
oak Plain•••••••• •••••••••••••• •••790
Granada Sills•••••••• •••••••••••••
Gen. HenxY H. ~olde••••••••,•••• 791
llh
792
Ki
rae•••••••••• ••••••• •••••••••
•••••••• 793
Maya•••••••• ••••••••••••••
794
Ht. Wilson•••••• •••••••••••••• •••:795
American River••••••• •••••••••••• 796
Golden ValleY•••••• •••••••••••••• •797
~ila Pa••••••••••• •••••••••••••• ••798
Ashland.·••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••799
Clairemont Hesa••••••••• ••••••••••800
1t10 Hondo••••••• •••••••••••••• ••••BOl

~oolau.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••802

Yucca Vall8Y•••••• •••••••••••••• •• .
'!t'he Gabilan••••• •••••••••••••• ••••:g:
KOreno valleY••••••• •••••••••••••: .aos
camelli•····• ••••••••••••• ••••·•··ao&
Simi ValleY•••••• •••••••••••••• ••• 07
8
conejo Vallef••••••• •••••••••••••• 808
sceptere•••• •••••••••••••• ••••••••809
i.os Alamitos •• ••••••••••••• ••••••• 1
Victoria PalmS•••••••••••••••••••• 9 ~
Woodland Hills ••••••••••••• ••••••• 8112

~riad.•••••••••••••••••••••••·~···:13

Old Waste••••••• •••••••••••••• ••••
~laza de x.os Angelea ••••••••••••• • 81'

l:harter

~
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
195'5
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
195S
:LIS&

1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1962
1962
1962
1962
1963
1963
1963

l)egree

Fees

15
100
100
100
125
125
100
100
75
75
165
100
75
75
75

Affil.

..!'.!!!.. Dues
5
5
5
10
1

10

'15
100
140
125
100
100
100
90
100
90
115
100
100
125
115
125
115
100
100
100
80
115
75
90
105
100
75
100
100

10
10
10
10

10
10

1

5
5

'15
75
80
115
100
100
100
100
140
J.25

115
100
115
100
100
175
90
100
90
100
125
125
125
125
75
100
125
100
100
75
100
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
115
100
100
125
175
90
105
65
100
120
120
100
100
75
135
100
125
125

10
5
10
5

20
20
18
24
25
16
20
16
24
20
25
18
25
18
24
24
20
25
21
20
16
18
18
20·
20
20
24
20
24
21
25
20
20
20
24
15
24
16
15
18
30
20
20
20
15
36
15
24
26
21
18
25
15
24

If
20
10
10
5
10
10

10
1
5
10
5
7
10
10
25
2

10
10
10

18
18
20
22
25
20
20
20
2'
28
25

15

18
20
18
18
20
2'
18
18
20
20
24
18
20
20
20
20
18
18
18
20
20
24
16
15
2,
20
20
22
18
21
16
15
20

~~

S>assed ~

210
251
339
245
354
379
190
130
181
140
743
221
234
176
283
254
119
272
171
234
205
255
177
223
143
509
184
123
182
225
284
165
105
233
190
196
185
203
197
207
169
249
230
144
181
357
140
249
239
159
215
181
197
190

5
4
7
10
7
6
2
3
4
3
23
11
5
6
4
5
5
10
2
8
6
7
1
11
3
10
1

•

27S
17!;!
267
76
261
230
222
262
56
227
123
152
137
159
90
20,
146
138
149
126
337
228
162
73
141
157
177
191
131
13'
136
134
117
190
100
101
151
157
16'
150
145
125
181
118
159
86

7
5
7
11
4
8
3
6
4
4
19
5
5
7
6
7
5
11
9

'

2
7
1
9
3
17
4
2
5
4
8
6
3
7
5
4
12
5
7
10
9
3
10
3
5
15
9

3
3
6
2
2
5
8
3
8
2
8
7
5
2
9
5
5

2
7
5
5
3
5
8
6
11
7
9
5
5
8
5

7
7

"

5
3

s

11

6
8
7

8
9

11
1

2
2
8
2
3
4
8
5

14

7

3
3
6
9
9
4
2
4
3
4
26
9
5
3
5
2
2
7
3
9
7
6

-

6

3

.&

•

• '

IS

ff8

10
4
10

8

6

15
11

10
12
6
8
3

2

'

1
6
1
3

1

6

6
2
6
2
3
3
3

1

6

6

5

1
7
4
2

'22

1
3
2
5
5

4

19

1
1
8
9
22

11

13
8

2
11

6

1
1
9

2
6
7
12
22

12

'

2
6
6
1

11
3

'''

10

3
2

'5
13
'3

5
7
3
12
3
6
3
6

'
'

2

3

2
1
16
6
6

l3
9
2

3
2

3

12
6
1
3

16

2

1

'

'

3
18

5

2
6
3
8

8
6

7
2

Payment

1024.15
1164.15
1509.20
1260.25
1381.30
1627.10
764.05
696.50
822.00
623.65
3429.10
1005.55
990.40
868.20
1201.35
1186.15
597.55
1330.70
918.95
1003.30
·781.90
1194.75
647.65
1171.90
730.35
2429.60
769.45
496,35
831000
918.35
1331.80
778.90
468.35
1061.40
901.50
874.75
1132.35
884.35
946.65
1072.35
960.15
972.05
1157.15
617.80
808.55
1896.65
845.00
1157.35
1124.55
881.10
922.30
808.55
792.65

859.15
!!. . .

f

1
13
12

1

1

Aml; Return

11

'2

10

1291.20
928.20
1229.15
296.75
1285.00
1248:.SO
1036.00
1253.90
228. 75
900.10
502.35
713.05
505.30
791.10
349.50
815.35
571.so
704.10
800.60
963.80
2106.85
1319.15
969.90
324.85
919.00
715.65
835.65
883.95
662.70
721.30
890.20
601.30
557.65
876.05
524.00
474.00
563.95
1223.65
876.80
737.50
644.25
sos.so
1097.45
633.10
817.55
408. 70

~~~m.

(J\

0

°'

295.00
35.00
320.00
350.00
140.00
305.00
105.00
210.00
180.00
140.00
825.00
175.00
210.00
210.00
345.00
175.00
245.00
315.00
175.00
70.00
295.00
375.00
205.00
620.00
35.00
35.00
140.00
330.00
105.00
245.00
190.00
470.00
175.00
245.00
350.00
340.00
105.00
350.00
105.00
625.00
340.00
295.00
210.00
315.00
165.00
175.00
105.00
200.00

--

315.00
210.00
285.00
35.00
350.00
420.00
225.00
330.00

---------105.oo
175.00
190.00

200.00
35.00
105.oo
35.00
210.00

210.00
520.00
820.00
495.00
385.00

10.00
245.00
165.00
220.00

------

210.00
1os.oo
385.00
130.00
140.00
120.00
165.00
120.00
35.00
635.00
310.00
210.00
130.00
70.00
445.00
210.00
210.00

10.00

(J\

_,

0

508

fl~,

. ' ....... .... '°0 ..,0

0100000000000

0100000000000

i~

f"lr-fll'lr-IN ... N\ONN

.-f I

I

:~~-

0

Ill

f"'o

"'Ile
k

o,...,.,,.,muH DN\Oa.•M\O co
o,...1na...,.com m,.,1110\C"'JN
\11'1\0 I"

'°

...... .......g..

\Df'l)N .... ,...O('l')ll'IO\,...P
r-1
....

p,

.•

(I)

ii

&l"tf")f"lll'l•O\N ........ MOf'l)f'1

JI

ll'IC"'JC"'JNC"') .... C"')ll'l ... \0 ... 11'1 ...
r-t
....
....
r-1

~I

1t1•N01('l")O ... l"Nll'ICD\Of'. U'1
,...
r-1
....
....

II

0\\0 .... CON .... ll'l\Of'H""OHDN t'11
1-t\Oll'lt"')\O\Oll 'ICDt•"H"',..._'°° ' a>
.-t
f""f

~

k :J

~UH·=

0

.,.

u

~
;!! tt
.., ...,
...t

P"'I

..

:<!
.µ

.., ....c:
0

..

QI
tn

Ill
OI

't1

"! .S

,. .

re,...,...,

.

0

"'

....k~
.:!u

mo..,oN\O anomo• oo
r-INNNr-tr:i .... ,.,r-tNNNN

I

..,

I o I &n I
I ... I . I

IO I r-t I
I
I ... I

...
0

&n 11uno an oo o o 0 o o o
,...,...,....,,,...00 \0'l ... ll'lll'IOO

... ............

Hl

'°"'
'° .... ,... '°............

'°'°'°

r-t..-tr-tr-t..-trir tr-t

Ill

""c:

IOI
1. k
l!1
'M
0

k

.!
....

i.s

~I

~

~~

Ch

""""
..-:""!

r-4

.<:
u

1!

~B.
..-:°'-•~

............,

•GI
•GI

.•..
k

11'1\0,...COQ\O r-INf"l•&n\O,... .
r-tr-1.-tr-tr-IN C"'llNNNNNN

....... ......
...: .. ... . . . . .
"'
-.:
......

mcocommoom moocommm

...
...

.......
• • • • • cu
• c:: • • • • • ...
•CD•••• •••••

::::,~·
•r-1

•'CS • • • • • • • • •
m ·g.
~,
::.µ>~

>,

• 0

•r-1 foi
•"CJ • • • • • • •Cl 0

:.:i;::::

• •.£: M

• •

•

• •

:f

. ..

•
•'ti
•C:

•

• •

:• ., :• :• :• a..,
•

• •

r-t

ftf

0
"1

··~
.........
tJ-..t
r-t
., • • •i:r;r-t
ll:J
U •U •

......... •.£: ......
,....
°'S::•C::•U •rl•.Q
,.., ........ s:: ••
....
0 • 0 • ., .......
'M •11'1 • QI 0
•

•r-1.

'j

••
•

• ....... .<:uo
:::!i g kU1<u
C:.t: C:.t: c:
• ._, ._, Q

:.;.!l .... iil
0:1115.!:' · ' :D>;•4>'"'••
111S.µ,.Hll1
.... . . . .0 ........ f:l 111 l!1

t C: OI k C:
3~j:.ik .... esa11~a
od....

•• ,..,GJ

:• :• :• :•'ti2'

r-t

=

•QI

•• ••

••

IP
>

..
..

'U

..........

~
0

~

........ OI +'-!$I>

j~::.;~~::~~:;Ju&::

a>

"ti
ID

<

I
I

QI

.,

.......... ll'lll'l\0\0\0,..._,. ..CDO
\0\0
\0 0\ 0\
\0 0\ 0\ 0\ \0
0\ 0\ 0\ 0\
0\ 0\
0\ \0
0\

~
......
41

.
~
..
k

... ...

I

.,....

MO
IO ...

...

'ti

....

~"'

.....
~""(

,;

r-t

..,...........

...

...

..;
....

.!:"'

i

"!"':°!~°!'-:"':"':~°!~~-.a; ~

...
~

,
.......,
hf

EXTINC T LODGES, INCLUD ING CONSOL IDATION S

..; ....
....,. .<:.

anoananoan anoanornoo o .

.... c:

509

(I)

Q

an 1 oanooanoo uioano
,... I ,...,...moo,..._N ,...coo:no

~8

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

..;

•

•OU•

k

QI M GI k II 01 k Ito

~8~ZBll8
C: ll
k ID ::S ll
OCIOCl ... GICJ

l!i1>11111>0<1u11e

I

2 Western Star, Shasta, 1850. Consolidated with Clinton No. 119, as Western Star No. 2,
Oct. 15, 1936.
4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name •changed to Jennings No. 4.
Jennings, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853 .
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco No. 7, Aug. 18,
1852•
San Francisco, San Francisco. Charter revoked, May 13, 1859.
8 Tuolumne, Sonora, 1850. Consolidated with Mount Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne
.
No. 8, December 1876.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with Columbia No. 28, as Sonora No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with George Washington No. 62, as Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919.
9 Marysville, Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69, as Corinthian
No. 9, Dec. 1874.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Yuba No. 39, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16,
1916.
11 Williamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November
1851 •
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation 1851, Charter never issued.
13 Nevada, Nevada City, 1851. Consolidated with Quitman No. 88, and Mamanita
No. 102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November
1851 .
16 Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolidated with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka No. 16,
Sept. 2, 1919•
Pacific, Valparaiso, Chile, Dispensation 1853, Charter never issued.
25 Georgetown, Georgetown, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No. 160, as Georgetown
No. 25, December 1898.
26 El Dorado, Placerville, 1853. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 151, as Pabnyra No. 26,
Oct. 16, 1902.
Palmyra, Plaoerville. Consolidated with Mt. Zion No. 114, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 11, 1911.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Acacia No. 92, as Palmyra No. 26, Mar. 29,
1916.
Palmyra, Placerville. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26, Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8,
Dec. 12, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873 •
30 Golden Gate, San Francisco, 1853. Consolidated with Speranza Italiana No. 219,
as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966.
31 Mokelumne, Mok.elumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Calaveras
No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Siskiyou No. 105, as St. John's No. 37,
Oct. 11, 1876.
St. John's, Yreka. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8, 1924.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SO Forbestown, Forbestown, 18S4. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Forbestown
No. So, July 19, 1926.
S2 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered November 1864
.
S3 Franklin, Sacramento, 18S4. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
S4 Saint James, Jamestown, 18SS. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 187S.
S9 Gravel Range, Comptonville, 18SS. Consolidated with Forest No. 66, as Gravel Range
No. S9, Sept. 27, 19SS.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as
Tuolumne No. 8, Sept. lS, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 18SS. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 18S7.
64 Natoma, Folsom, 18SS. Consolidated with Latrobe No. 189 as Natoma No. 64
'
'
December 1884.
66 Forest, Allegheny, 18SS. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. S9, as Gravel Range
No. S9, Sept. 27, 195S.
Minnesota, 185S. Charter surrendered May 14, 18S9.
Minnesota,
67
69 Independent Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to C<>rinthian No. 69,
May 2, 18SS.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9 as Corinthian No 9
· '
'
December 1874.
so
N
Io
as
80,
No.
Ione
with
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 185S. Consolidated
ne o. •
Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada City, 18SS. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 18S8.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 18SS. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 18S9.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 18SS. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 18S7.
75 Mountain Forest, M<>untain Forest, 1855. Charter surrendered May 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 18S5. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180 as Petaluma No. 180
'
December 1898.
78 Calaveras, San Andreas, 18SS. Consolidated with Mokelumne No. 31, as Calaveras
No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Campo Seco No. 100, as Calaveras
No. 78, October 1898.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Mokelumne Hill No. 298, as Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
80 Ione, Io~, 18S6. Consolidated with Nebraska No. 71, as Ione No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. i6, as Eureka No. 16,
Sept. 2, 1919.
SS Indian ~iggings, Indian Diggings, 18S6. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. HS, as
St. Marks No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
St. Mark's, Fiddletown. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 S~int L~uis, Howland's F1at, 18S6. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as
Gibsonville No. 1S8, November 1882.
88 U~ty, Orleans Flat, 18S6. Name ch!lnged to Quitman No. 88, May 8, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 18S6. Charter surrendered May 8, 18S8.
91 North Star, Fort Jones, 1856. Consolidated with Owen No. 108, as North Star
No. 91, Oct. lS, 1908.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 18S6. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Mar. 29, 1916.
93

Caymus, Yountville, 18S6. Moved to St. Helena and name changed to St. Helena

'No. 93, Oct. 10, 1867.

94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 18S6. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
Howard, Yreka, 18S6. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.

96

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

511 ·

Jefferson, La Porte, 18S6. Consolidated with Gib90nville No. US, as Jefferson No. 97,
Oct. lS, 1908.
Jefferson, La Porte, Consolidated with Forbestown No. SO, as Forbestown No. SO,
July 19, 1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 18S6. Moved to Hornitos and name changed to Homitos
No. 98, May 1860.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Consolidated with Yosemite No. 133, as Yosemite No. 99,
Oct. 16, 1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 18S6. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Calaveras
No. 78, October 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada
No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 18S6. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as St. John's No. 37,
.
Oct. 11, 1876.
Franklin, Meadow Valley, Dispensation 18S7, Charter never issued.
Folsom, Folsom, Dispensati<>n 1857, Charter never issued.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 18S7. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne
No. 8, December 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, as North Star No. 91,
Oct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly F1at, 18S7. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 18S7. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. SS, u
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Wind90r, Windsor, 18S7. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
118 Valledto, Vallecito, 18S8. Charter surrendered Jan. S, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star No. 2, as Western Star No. 2,
Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 18S8. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 190S.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
Napa City, Napa, Disperuiation 1859, Charter never issued.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
131 Carpenter, Wood's Ferry, Dispensation 18S8, was ~rtered in 18S9 as Woodb~dge
No. 131, the name of the location of the Lodge havmg been changed to Woodbndge.
132 Sincerity, Greenville, 1859. Consolidated with Greenville No. 249, as Sincerity No.
132, Oct. 16, 1896.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, as Yosemite
No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
136 Pacific, San Francisco, 1860 Consolidated with Lebanon No. 49S, as Lebanon-Padftc
No. 136, September 7, 1971.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish F1at, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
Doric, North Fork, Dispell.9lltion 1861, Charter never issued.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 16, 1902.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 13, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nevada Territory, 1862. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 186S.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
97

512

GRAN D LODGE OP CALI P'OllN IA

PROCEEDINGS OP' THE

156 Woodland, Woodland, 1863. Consolidated with
Tyrian No. 284, as Woodland No. 156,
Oct. 11, 1911.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nevada Territo ry,
1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated
with Jefferson No. 97, as Jefferson
No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charte r surrendered Sept.
28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with
Georg
etown No. 25, as Georgetown
No. 25, December 1898.
162 Vugin ia City, Virginia City, Nevada Territory,
1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nevada Territory,
1863. Trand erred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville, Dispensation 1864, Charte r never
issued.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nevada Territo ry,
1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nevada Territory, 1864.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nevada Territory,
1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nevada Territo ry, 1864. Transf
erred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name challged to
Antioch No. 175, Oct. 12, 1865.
176 Men:ed, Snelling, 1865. Charte r surrendered Oct.
16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Arizona Territo ry, 1866. Transf
erred to Jurisdiction of Arizona,
Mar. 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with
Petaluma No. 77, as Petalu ma No. 180,
December 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to
Arbuckle No. 182, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed
to Claiborne, Oct. 10, 1867.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with
Natom a No. 64, as Natom a No. 64,
Oct. 17' 1884.
197 Paradise, Hayw ard, 1869. Charte r surrendered
July
Rocklin, Rocklin, Dispensation 1870, Charte r never20, 1872.
issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with
Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charte r revoked Oct.
12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed
to Mosaic No. 218, Oct. 18, 1881.
219 Speranza Italiana, San Francisco, 1872. Conso
lidated with Golden Gate No. 30, as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966.
221 Inyo, Independence, 1872. Consolidated with
Waucoba No. 413, as Inyo No. 221,
Jan. 10, 1945.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with R<>5ev
ille No. 432, as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charte r surren
dered Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Hayw ard, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Moved to
San Mateo and name changed to Sm
Mateo No. 226, Oot. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charte r surren
dered Oct. 15, 1897.
230 North Butte, Gridley, 1873. Consolidated with
Emmanuel No. 318, as North Butte
No. 230, Oct. 8, 1968.
235 Surprise Valley, Cedarville, 1874. Consolidated
with North East No. 266, as Surprile
Valley No. 235, July 1, 1962.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charte r surrendered Oct.
16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charte r surrendered
Sept. 26, 1890.

240

Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa

513

No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April lvill,1882G.
viil
249 Green e, reen e, 1878· Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, as Sincerity
No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
•"'ril 19 1888
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surren
•
·
•
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winne dered" ¥
dumah No. 287, as Wmnedumah
No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
56
Readin g No 254
254 Reading, Reading, 1879. Consolidated with Kenne
tt No. 4 ' as
.
'
Dec. 19, 19Lem25.
1879
Conso
lidated
with
Riverd
ale
No.
496,
as Welcome No. 255,
255 Welcome,
oore,
·
May 18 1943.
J risdi u
257 Arizona: Phoenix, Arizona Territory, 1879. Transf
f Arizona,
erred to u
c on o
March 25,T1882bst.
Arizon
a Territo ry Dispensation 1881, Transferred to Jurilld
Solomon, om one,
ic•
tion oSf Arizl
. o~ Mas rcbFran25,~:· 1880 Consolidated with Seapo
rt No. 550, as King
260 King o omon s, an
•
·
Solomon's Seaport No. 260• Dec. 5• 1963•
d
t
J
risdicUon of Arizona,
263 Tucson, Tucson, Arizona Territory, 1881. Transf
erre o u
March 25, 1882.
•
M · N
264 Hesperian, Santa Maria, 1882. Consolidated with
rian
Santa ana o. 340' as H""""'
.....,No. 264, Oct. F13,rt19B10id._ n 1882 Consolidated with
Surprise Valley No. 235, as
266 North East, o
Wl:ll'
•
Surprise Valley No. 235,
July 1, 1962.
270 Fall River Burgettville, 1883. Charte r revoked
Oct. 10, 1895.
'
1884 Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
~~~ =:~::tissi. Co~lidated with Fowle
r No. 398, as Selma No. 277, Oct.
14, 1915.Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodl
and No. 156, as Woodland
284
TyrianN
0 156 Oct. 11 1911.
•
'
'
•
285 San Miguel, San Miguel, 188 7. c onsolidated with Paso Robles No. 286, as p aso
Robles No. 286, Dec. 1, 1968.
286 Paso Robles, Paso Robles, 1887• Consolidated with San Miguel No. 285, as Paso
Robles No. 286, Dec. 1, 1968.
287 Winnedumah, Bishop, 1887. Consolidated WI"th Bodie No 252 as Winnedumah
•
'
No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
N
ch ed to East Gate No 290, Oct. 12, 1899.
290 Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. amHille
. ~~90 Consolidated ~th Calaveras No. 78, as
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumn:
,
.·
Calaveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 19 9• lidated with Oxnar
d No. 341, as Oxnard No. 341,
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Conso
Oct. 16, 1902. .
318 Emmanuel, Biggs, 1893. Conso lida ted with North Butte No. 230, as North Butte
No. 230, Oct. 8, 1968.
N
cha ed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct. 13, 1904.
339 EsperanZa •• FullertonM,1~. 1:eco~dated
with Hesperlan No. 264, as Hesperian
340 Santa Mana, Santa ana,
.
.
No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
lidated 'th Hueneme No. 311, as Oxnard No. 341,
341 Oxnard, ()xnar d, 1901. Conso
WI
Oct. 16, 1902.
T
f
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. rans er red to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. T rans ferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
•
C-0 lidated with Parnassus No. 388, as Parnassus354 Presidio, San FranCISCO, 1903.
nso
Presidio No. 388, Dec. 1, 1969.
C
lidated with Arlington No. 414, as Golden
358 Golden State, Los Angeles, 1903. onso
State No. 358, Aug. 1, 1970.

514

515

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

360 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1904. Consolidated with Victory No. 474, as San
Francisco-Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.
363 Berkeley, Berkeley, 1904. Consolidated with Charter Rock No. 410, as Berkeley
No. 363, July 1, 1968.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. 1, 1917.
370 Amity, San Fraru:isco, 1905. Consolidated with Seal Rock No. 536, as AmitySeal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Lodge le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Od. 12, 1916.
373 Veteran, Sawtelle, 1906. Name changed to West Los Angeles No. 373, Oct. 12, 1939.
384 El Centro, El Centro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as El Centro No. 384,
Aug. 30, 1937.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P.I., 1907. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
388 Parruwus, San Francisco, 1907. Consolidated with Presidio No. 354, as Parnll59UlPresidio No. 388, Dec. 1, 1969.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, as Selma No. 277, Oct. 14,
1915.
410 Charter Rock, Berkeley, 1910. Consolidated with Berkeley No. 363, as Berkeley
No. 363, July 1, 1968.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No. 221,
Jan. 10, 1945.
414 Arlington, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438, as Arlington No. 414,
Sept. 28, 1959.
Consolidated with Golden State No. 358, as Golden State No. 358, Aug. 1, 1970.
423 York, Walnut Park, 1912. Consolidated with Florence No. 649, as Florence No. 423 1
December 3, 1970.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222, as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia No. 438, Oct. 16, 1918.
Acacia, Los Angeles. Consolidated with Arlington No. 414, as Arlington No. 414,
Sept. 28, 1959.
453 Bethlehem, San Francisco, 1915. Consolidated with Crocker No. 454, as Crocker
No. 454, April 1, 1961.
454 Crocker, Daly City, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem No. 453, as Crocker No. 454,
April 1, 1961.
456 Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, as Reading No. 254,
Dec. 19, 1925.
461 Argonaut, San Francisco, 1916. Consolidated with Argonne No. 514, as Argonaut•
Argonne No. 461, Dec. 5, 1968.
464 Alta Vista, San Francisco, 1916. Consolidated with Mount Vernon No. 517, as
Alta Vist:a-M~unt Vernon No. 464, Dec. 2, 1968.
474 Victory, San Francisco, 1919. Consolidated with San Francisco No. 360, as San
Francisco-Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.
478 Thousand Oaks, Berkeley, 1920. Consolidated with Indian Rock No. 638, as
Thousand Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.
480 Fellowship, Oakland, 1920. Consolidated with Fortitude No. 624, as Fellowship
No. 480, Dec. 1, 1969.
489 East Bay, Orinda, 1920. Consolidated with Hillcrest No. 573, as East Bay No. 489,
Dec. 1, 1967.
495 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1921. Consolidated with Pacific No. 136, as Lebanon-Pad&
No. 136, September 7, 1971.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale, 1921. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, as Welcome No. 255,
May 18, 1943.

514 Argonne, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Argonaut No. 461, as ArgonautArgonne No. 461, Dec. 5, 1968.
517 Mount Vernon, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Alta Vista No. 464, as
Alta Vista-Mount Vernon No. 464, Dec. 2, 1968.
521 Piedmont, Piedmont, 1922. Consolidated with Orinda No. 704, as Orinda No. 521,
Dec. 1, 1966.
522 Sunrise, Monterey Park, 1922. Consolidated with Belvedere No. 539, as Belvedere
Sunrise No. 522, July 1, 1968.
536 Seal Rock, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Amity No. 370, as AmitySeal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
539 Belvedere, Monterey Park, 1922. c~nsolidated with Sunrise No. 522, as Belvedere
Sunrise No. 522, July 1, 1968.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542,
Oct. 12, 1950.
545 Jonathan, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Veritas No. 640, as VeritasJonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963.
550 · Seaport, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with King Solomon's No. 260, as King
Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554, as Educator
No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
554 Educator, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with ~Iden City No. 553, as Educator
No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
573 Hillcrest, Orinda, 1923. Consolidated with East Bay No. 489, as East Bay No. 489,
Dec. 1, 1967.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628, as Truth
No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Owensmouth, 1925. Subsequent to the name of the community being
changed to Canoga Park, the name of the Lodge was changed to Canoga No. 611,
Oct. 15, 1931.
612 Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City No. 612, Oct. 10, 1929.
616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616, Oct. 14,
1937.
624 Fortitude, Oakland, 1925. Consolidated with Fellowship No. 480, as Fellowship
No. 480, Dec. 1, 1969.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No. 597, as Truth
No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
638 Indian Rock, Berkeley, 1926. Consolidated with Thousand Oaks No. 478, as
Thousand Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.
640 Veritas, San Francisco, 1926. Consolidated with Jonathan No. 545, as VeritasJonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963.
649 Florence, Walnut Park, 1927. Consolidated with York No. 423, as Florence No. 423,
December 3, 1970.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, as El Centro
No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.
704 Orinda, Orinda, 1950. Consolidated with Piedmont No. 521, as Orinda No. 521,
Dec. 1, 1966.
799 Bay Claire Vista, San Diego. Name changed to Clairemont Mesa No. 799, October
15, 1964.

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1850

1856

Jonathan D. Stevenson •• G.M.
California No. I
Bom Jan, I, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894
John A. Tutt ••••••••• D.G.M.
Caleb Fenner •••••••• S.G.W.
Sashel Woods •••••••• J.G.W.
Levi Stowell •••••• , ••••• G.T.
John H. Glhon ••••••••• G.S.

William H. Howard ••••• G.M.
John A. Raymond •••• D.G.M.
Lemuel Lyon •••••••• S.G.W,
Peter W. Randle •••••. J.G.W.
Addison Martin ••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1851
John A. Tutt ........... G.M.
Tehama No. 3
Bom Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900
Bent. D. Hyam •••••••• D.G.M.
E. F. F. Ellis •••••••••• S.G.W.
Benj. S. Olds ••••••••• J.G.W.
Townsend A. Thomas •••• G.T.
Levi Stowell •••••••••••• G.S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam •••••• G.M.
Benicia Na. 5
Barn March l, 1813
Died July 12, 1893
Chas. M. Radcliff ••••• D.G.M.
J. R. McConnell ••••••• J.G.W.
Addison Martin •••••••• G.T.
Levi Stowell •••••••••••• G.S.

1853
Charles M. Radcliff ••••• G.M.
Tuolumne No. 8
Bom Feb. 5, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1889
T. A. Thomas •••••••• D.G.M.
Jno. R. Crandall •••••• S.G.W.
Richard F. Knott •••••• J.G.W.
Addison Martin ••••••• • G.T.
Levi Stowell ••••••••••• • G.S.

1854
Wiiiiam H. Howard .•••• G.M.
San Jose No. I 0
Barn Aug. 29, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Nath. G. Curtis •••••• D.G.M.
Rector E. Cole •••••••• S.G.W.
Robt. N. Wood ••• • ••• J .G.W.
Addison Martin •••••••• G.T.
Levi Stowell ............ G.S.

1855
Willlam H. Howard ••••. G.M.
T. A. Thomas ••••••••• D.G.M.
Jno. A. Raymond ••••• S.G.W.
Sam A. Merritt ••••••• J.G.W.
Addison Martin ........ G.T.
Le¥! Stowell ......... . .. G.S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtis ••••• G.M.
Washington No. 20
Bom Feb. 8, 1825
Died July 12, 1897
Charles Marsh ••••••• D.G.M.
Aaron D. Pork ••••••• S.G.W.
John B. Pope •••••••• J.G.W.
Addison Martin ••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S,

1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis ••••• G.M.
P. W. Shepheard •••• D.G.M.
Wm. McCormick •••••• S.G.W.
Jos. W. Bicknell •••••• J.G.W.
Addison Martin ••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell • • •••• • ••• G.S.

1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis •••• • G.M.
P. W. Shepheard •••• D.G.M.
Ebenezer Lane ••••••• S.G.W.
Thos. P. H-ley •••••• J.G.W.
Addison Martin ••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis ••••• G.M.
P. W. Shepheard •••. D.G.M.
Wm. C. Belcher •••••• S.G.W.
Alvlnza Hayward ••••. J.G.W.
Addison Martin ••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1861
James L English ..•••••• G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Bom June 5, 1813
Died May 29, 1889
Wm. C. Belcher •••••• D.G.M.
John W. Harville ••••• S.G.W.
Caleb E. Wiicoxon •••• J.G.W.
James Laidley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell ••• • •••••. G.S.

1863
William C. Belcher •••••• G.M.
Gil. B. Claiborne ••••• D.G.M.
Louis Cohn •••••••••• S.G.W.
Wm.· A. Davies ••••••• J.G.W.
James Laidley •••••••••• G. T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1864
William C. Belcher ••••. G.M.
Gil. B. Claiborne ••••• D.G.M.
Wm. A. Davies ••••••• S.G.W.
Isaac S. Tltu1 ........ J.G.W,
James Laldley •••• , ••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell ••••• , •••• G.S.

1865
Giibert B. Claiborne •••• G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Bom 1828
Died Dec. l, 1908
Wm. A. Davies ••••••• D.G.M.
laaac S. Titu1 •••••••• S.G.W.
Henry H. Hartley ••••• J.G.W.
James Laidley •••••••••• G.T,
Alex G. Abell •••••••••. G.S.

1866
Gilbert B. Claiborne •••• G.M.
Henry H. Hartley ••••• D.G.M.
Wm. H. Peterson ••••• S.G.W.
Tho- Beck ••••••••• J.G.W.
James Laldley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1867
William A. Davle1 •••••• G.M.
Columbia No. 28
Bom Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916
Henry H. Hartley ••••• D.G.M.
Thomas Beck •••••• , •. S.G.W.
Leonidas E. Pratt •••••• J.G.W.
James A. Laldley •••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1862

1868

William C. Belcher •••••• G.M.
Corinthian No. 69
Bom Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, 1895
Gil. B. Claiborne ••••• D.G.M.
John W. Harville ••••. S.G.W.
John B. Hewson •••••• J.G.W.
James Laidley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

Charles Marsh ••••••••• G.M.
Nevada No. 13
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Died April 28, 1876
Leonidas E. Pratt •• • , • D.G.M.
Theo. G. Cockrill ••••• S.G.W.
Fredk. F. Boru ••••••• J.G.W,
James Laidley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••. G.S.

I

517

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1869

1876

Leonlda1 E. Pratt ...... G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 11
Bom Aug. 29, 1833
Died Oct. 25, 1886
laaoc S. Titus •••••••• D.G.M.
John S. Ward •••••••• S.G.W.
Richard Dale •••••••. J.G.W.
James Laidley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

John M. Browne •••••••• G.M.
Chas. L Wiggin •••••• D.G.M.
Wm. S. Wells •••••••• S.G.W.
Salon W. Craigue •••• J.G.W.
James Laldley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1870
Leonidas E. Pratt ••••••• G.M.
laaoc S. Titus •••••••. D.G.M.
Chas. L Wiggin •••••• S.G.W.
Bent. H. Freeman ••••• J.G.W.
James Laidley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1871
Leonidas E. Pratt •••••• G.M.
Chai. L Wiggin •••••• D.G.M.
Ben. H. Freeman • , • , .S.G.W.
Geo. C. Perkins •••••• J.G.W.
James Laidley .......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1872
Leonidas E. Pratt •••••. G.M.
Benj. H. Freemon •••• D.G.M.
Geo. C. Perkim •••••• S.G.W.
John M. Browne •••••• J.G.W.
James Laldley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1873
laooc S. Titus .......... G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Barn Oct. 14, 1827
Died April 22, I 892
Geo. C. Perkins •••••• D.G.M.
Jno. M. Browne •••••• S.G.W.
Chas. E. Mitchell •••••• J.G.W,
Jame1 Laldley •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1874
George C. Perkina •••••• G.M.
Oroville No. 103
Bom Aug. 23, 1839
Died Feb. 26, 1923
John M. Browne •••••• D.G.M.
Wm. B. Parker •••••. S.G.W.
Wiley J. Tinnin •••••• J.G.W.
James Laldley •••••• • ••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1875
John M. Browne •••••••• G.M.
Naval No. 87
Bom May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Chm. L Wiggin •••••• D.G.M.
Wiiey J. Tinnin ...... S.G.W.
Jacob H. Neff •• , ••••• J.G.W.
James Laidley •••••• , ••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1877
John M. Browne •••••••. G.M.
Chas. L Wiggin •••••. D.G.M.
Wm. W. Traylor •••••• S.G.W.
Wm. H. Crone •••••• J.G.W.
Moses Heller ••••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1878
John M. Browne •••••••• G.M.
Wm. W. Traylor •••••• D.G.M.
Wm. H. Crone •••••• S.G.W.
Robt. C. Broder •••••. J.G.W.
Mo... Heller •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1879
Wiiiiam W. Traylor •••. G.M.
Callfornla No. l
Bom Man:h 17, 1822
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Samuel C. Denson •••• D.G.M.
Clay W. Taylor •••••• S.G.W.
John Q. Adams •••••• J.G.W.
Moses Heller •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1880
Samuel C. Denson •••••• G.M.
Union No. 58
Bom Sept. 23, 1839
Died July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor •••••• D.G.M.
John Q. Adams •••••• S.G.W.
0. W. Hollenbeck •••• J.G.W.
MOMS Heller •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1881
Cloy W. Taylor •••••••• G.M.
Watem Star No. 2
Bom Sept. 10, 1844
Died May l, 1897
John Q. Adams •••••• D.G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines •••• S.G.W.
Thaa. J, Bowers •••••• J.G.W.
Moses Heller •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1882
Clay W. Taylor •••••••• G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines •••• D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ••••• S.G.W
George Hinda ........ J.G.W.
Moses Heller ••••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1883
Jonathan D. Hines •••••• G.M.
Son Buenaventura No. 214
Bom Jan. 1, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin ...... D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson •••• S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker •••••• J.G.W.
Moses Heller ••••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1884
Jonathan D. Hines •••••• G.M.
Wiley J. Tinnin •••••• D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson •••• S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker •••••• J.G.W.
Moses Heller •••••••••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1885
Wiley J. Tinnln •••••••• G.M.
Trinity No. Z1
Bom Oct. 7, 1829
Died Moot. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson •••• D.G.M.
Hiram N. Rucker •••. S.G.W.
Henry H. Knapp •••••• J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding •••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

1886
Edmund C. Atkinson •••• G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Bom Nov. 17, 1837
Died March 20, 1911
Hiram N. Rucker • , •• D.G.M.
Morris M. Estee •••••• S.G.W.
Alvah R. Conklin ••••• J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding •••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1887
Hiram N. Rucker •••••• G.M.
La Grange No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee •••••• D.G.M.
Alvah R. Conklin .... S.G.W.
Wm. Johnston •••••••• J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding •••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

1888
Morrl1 M. Est.. •••••••. G.M.
Califomla No. l
Born Nov. 23, 183.4
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Alvah R. Conklin ••••• D.G.M.
William Johnston •••• S.G.W.
Marc. D. Boruck •••••• J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding •••• G.T.
Alex G. Abell •••••••••• G.S.

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1889

1895

1901

Morris M. Estee •••••••• G.M.
Willlam Johnston •••• D.G.M.
Chas. R. Grltmon •••. S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme •••••. J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding •••. G.T.
Alex G. Abell .......... G.S.

Edward M. Preston ••••• G.M.
Nevoda No. 13
Bom Moy 4. 18"'1
Died April 24, 1903
Wm. T. Lucas • ••••••• D.G.M.
Thomas Flint ••••••••• S.G.W.
F. M. Angellotti •••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

William S. Wells ••••••• G.M.
MortinH No. 41
8om June 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23, 1919
O. S. Hendenon •••••• D.G..M.
Chas. W. Nutting ••••• S.G.W.
Geo. W. Hunter •••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnso11 •••••••. G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards •••••••• G.L.

1890
Alvah R. Conklln •••••• G.M.
Inyo No. 221
Bom 1835
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Wiiiiam Johnston •••• D.G.M.
Chas. R. Gritman •••• S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme •••••• J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding • , •• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

1891
Willlam Johnston •••••• G.M.
Franklin No. 1.43
Born June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Chas. R. Gritman •••• D.G.M.
Henry S. Orme •••••• S.G.W.
Jaa. B. Stevens ••••••• J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding •••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

1896
William T. Lucas •.•.••• G.M.
Guadalupe No. 237
lom Morch 18, 1850
Died March 21, 1931
Thomas Flint •••••••• D.G.M.
F. M. Angellotti •••••. S.G.W.
Chas. L. Patton •••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson ••••••• G.S.

1897
Thomas Flint •• ••••••• • G.M.
Texas No. 46
Bom May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 18, 1936
F. M. Angellattl •••••• D.G.M.
Chas. L. Patton ••••••• S.G.W.
Jaa. A. Foshay ••••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

1892

1898

Chari• R. Gritman •••. G.M.
Yount No. 12
lom Dec. 10, 1838
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme •••••• D.G.M.
Jaa. B. Stevens •••••• S.G.W.
Edw. M. Preston •••••• J.G.W.
Nathan W Spaulding •••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

Frank M. Angellotti •••• G.M.
Marin No. 191
lorn Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932
Chas. L Patton •••••• D.G.M.
Jas. A. Foshay ••••••• S.G.W.
Wm. S. Wells •••••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

1893

1899

Henry S. Orme ••••••••• G.M.
So. Callfomla No. 278
Bom Morch 25, 1837
Died Nov. 29, 1912
Jaa. B. Stevens •••••• D.G.M.
Edw. M. Preston •••••• S.G.W.
Wm. T. Lucas •••••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

1894
James B. Stnens ••••• • G.M.
Yount No. 12
Born Morch 27, 18"'1
Died Dec. 6, 1919

Edw. M. Preston •••••• D.G.M.
Thomas Flint ••••••••• J.G.W.
Wm. T. Lucas •••••••• S.G.W.
Edward Cohtman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

Charles L. Patton •••••• G.M.
California No. 1
Bom 1865
Died April 11, 1923
Jaa. A. Foshay •••••• D.G.M.
Wm. S. Wells •••••••• S.G.W.
0. S. Henderson ••••• J.G.W.
Edward Colemon ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.

1900
James A. Foshay ••••••• G.M.
So. California No. 278
Bom Nov. 23 1856
Died Jan. 17. 1914
Wm. S. Wells •••• •••• D.G.M.
O. S. Henderson •••••• S.G.W.
Chas. W. Nutting •••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards •••••••• G.L.

1902
Orrin S. Henderson •..•• G M.
Momin; Star No. 68
•
lorn June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting •••• D.G.M.
Geo. W. Hunter •••••• S.G.W.
Motley H. Flint •••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ••••••• G.L.

1903
Charles W. Nutting •..• G..M.
Evening Star No. 186
lorn Oct. 3, 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter •••••• D.G.M.
Motley H. Flint ...... S.G.W.
Edw. H. Hort •••••••. J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards •••••••• G.L.

1904
George W. Hunter •••••. G..M.
Humboldt No. 79
Bom 1854
Died Od. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint •••••• D.G.M.
Edw. H. Hart •••••••• S.G.W.
Geo. M. Perine •••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •• ••••• . G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ••••••• G.L.

1905
Motley H. Flint ••.••••• G.M.
East Gate No. 290
Bom Feb. 19, 1865
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Hart •••••• D.G..M.
Geo. M. Perine •••• •. S.G.W,
Reuben H. Uoyd •••••• J .G.W,
Edward Colemon ••••••• G.T.
George Johnson •••••••. G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards •••••••• G.L

1906
Edward H. Hart •••••••• G..M.
Uve Oak No. 61
Bom 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perine •••••• D.G..M.
Reuben H. Lloyd •••••• S.G.W.

•

519

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Oscar Lawler •••••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman •••••. G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards •••••••• G.L.

1907
George M. Perine •••••. G.M.
Pacific No. 136
Born 1852

Died Od. 6, 1933
ReiH>en H. Uoyd •••••• D.G.M.
Oscar Lawler •••••••• S.G.W.
W. Frank Pierce •••••. J.G.W.
Edward Colemon ••••••. G.T.
George Johnson •••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •.•••••• G.L

1908
0Kar Lowler ..•••.•••• G.M.
East Gate No. 290
Bom April 2, 1875
Died Jan. 3, 1966
W. Frank Pierce •••••• D.G.M.
Dano R. Weller •••••. S.G.W.
A. J. Monroe •••••••. J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••. G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker • , ••••.• G.L.

1909
W. Frank Pierce ...•• ••. G.M.
Oakland No. 188
Bom Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dano R. Weller •••••• D.G.M.
A. J. Monroe ••••••• S.G.W.
Wm. P. Fiimer •••••••• J.G.W
Edward Coleman ....... G.T:
John Whlcher ••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L.

1910
Dana R. Weller •.•••••• G.M.
So. Callfomla No. 278
Bom March 24, 1174
Died Jan. 9, 1947
A. J. Monroe •••••••• D.G.M.
Wm. P. Filmer ••••••. S.G.W.
J. D. Murphey ••• ••••. J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••• , , •• G.T.
John Whicher •••••.••• . G.S.
Thamos J. Baker •••••.•. G.L.

1911
Alonzo J, Monroe .••• •• G.M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer ••••••• D.G.M.
J. D. Murphey • • •••••. S.G.W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe •••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman •••••••• G.T.
John Whlcher .......... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L.

1912
Wm. P. Filmer •••••.••• G.M.
King Solomon No. 260
Bom March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 19"'2
Jno. D. Murphey •••••. D.G.M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe •••••• S.G.W.
Alb. G. Burnett •••••• J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ••••••. G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L.

1913
John D. Murphey •••••. G.M.
Alta No. 333
Born July 7, 1863
Died Sept. 15, 19"'5
Benj. F. Bledsoe ...... D.G.M.
Alb. G. Burnett •••••• S.G.W.
F. V. Keesling •••••••. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Fiimer ...... G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

1914
Benl. F. Bledsoe ••.• •••• G..M.
!ian Bemardlno No. 348
Bom Feb. 8, 1874
Died Oct. 30, 1938
Alb. G. Burnett •••••• D.G.M.
F. V. Keesling •••••••. S.G.W.
W. Rh. Hervey •••••. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••.•• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ••••• , •• G.L

1915
Albert G. Burnett •••••• G.M.
Santa Roso No. 51
Bom April 9, 1856
Died Aug. 15, 1923
F. V. Keesling •••••••• D.G.M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey •••••• S.G.W.
Bradford Webster •••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••. G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Bak•r •••••••• G.L

1916
Francis V. Keesling ••• • . G.M.
Califomia No. 1
Born fltb. 17, 1871
Died Sept. 25, 1963
Wm. Rh. Hervey •••••• D.G.M.
Bradford Webster •••• S.G.W.
Charles A. Adams ••• . J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L.

1917
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .• •• G.M.
Pitntalpha No. 202
Bom Morch 26, 1870
Died Feb. 1, 1953
Bradford Webster •••• D.G.M.
Charles A. Adams •••• S.G.W.

Geo. F. Rodden •••••. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

1918
Bradford Webster •••••• G.M.
live Oak No. 61

Bom Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941
Chari" A. Adams •••• D.G.M.
Gea. F. Rodden •••••• S.G.W.
Sam. E. Burke •••••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

1919
Charles Albert Adams •• G.M.
Excelsior No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Died May 1, 1962
Geo. F. Rodd1tn ...... D.G.M.
Sam. E. Burke •••••• S.G.W.
Wm. A. Sherman ••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••. G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L.

1920
George F. Rodden •••••• G.M.
Marin No. 191
Bom Dec. 24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934
Sam. E. Burke •••••• D.G.M.
Wm. A. Sherman •••• S.G.W.
Arthur S. Crites •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Porker Filmer •••••. G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .••••••• G.L.

1921
Samuel E. Burke .•..•. G.M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Died Feb. 14, 1961

Wm. A. Sherman ••••• D.G.M.
Arthur S. Crites .••••. S.G.W.
David J. Reese •••••.. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ••.••. G.T.
John Whlcher ••••.••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

1922
William A. Sherman .••. G.M.
Presidio No. 35.4
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crites •••••• D.G.M.
David J. Reese ••••••• S.G.W.
Alb. E. Boynton •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ••••••• • G.L.

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1923

1928

Arthur S. Crites ••••.••• G.M.
Bakersfield No. 22.C
Bam Feb • .C, 1879
Died Apr. 28, 19~
David J. Reese •••••• D.G.M.
Alb. E. Boyntan •••••• S.G.W.
Geo. L Jones •••••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Porker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Boker •••••••• G.L

1933

Gustav A. Hutaff •••••• G.M.
Dunsmuir No. 2V1
Bam Oct. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg •••. D.G.M.
J. S. Ross •••••••••• • S.G.W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Porker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

James B. Gist ••••••••• G.M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Bom Aug. 8. 1868
Died April 25, 195"
R. V. Whiting •••••••• D.G.M.
Earl Warren •• , ••••• S.G.W.
Rollie W. Miller •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

Leon 0. Whitsell ...... G.M.
Orange GroYe No. 293
Bam July 10, 1176
Died Feb. 2.5, 1!166
Wiiiiam H. Waste •••• D.G.M..
William B. Ogden •••• S.G.W,
Uoyd E. Wilson •••••• J.G.W,
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ••••••••• G.L

1924

1929

David J. R - ..••.••• G.M,
San BuenaYentura No. 214
Bam Aug. 22, 1871
Died NOY. 9, 193-C
Alb. E. Boynton •••••• D.G.M.
Geo. L. Jones •••••••• S.G.W.
Wiii H. Fischer •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Boker •••••••• G.L

C. M. Wollenberg •••.•• G.M.
Starr King No. 344
Barn March 13, 1873
Died Oct. 22, 1!162
John S. Ross •••••••• D.G.M.
Robt. B. Gaylord •••• S.G.W.
Frank W. Mlxter •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ••• , , • G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Boker •••••••• G.L

1934

1939

1944

Randolph V. Whiting •.• • G.M.
King Salomon No. 260
Bom NoY. 30, 1870
Died Feb. 4, 1952
Earl Warren ••••• , •• D.G.M.
Rollle W. Miller , ••••• S.G.W.
James T. Fraser •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••. G.T,
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Leslie E. Wood •• , •••••• G.L

Wllllam B. Ogden •••••• G.M.
Hollywood No. 355
lom Aug. 26, 1876
Died Sept. 12, 195"
Uoyd E. Wilson •••••• D.G.M.
Frank M. Smith •••••• S.G.W.
Leslie E. Wood •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Walter Leonard •••••••• G.L

Gilbert C. Deforest •••• G.M.
Reocling No. 2.5-4
Born Sept. 18, 1889
Died Jon. 25, 1952
Lawrence C. Kelley , ••• D.G.M.
Arthur W. Brouillet ... S.G.W.
John R. Moore ••• , •• J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling •••••. G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Chester H. Warlow •••••• G.L

1935

1940

Earl Warren •••• , •••• , • G.M.
Sequoia No. 3"9
Bam March 19, 1191
Rollle W. Miiier •••••. D.G.M.
James T. Fraser •••••. S.G.W.
Leon 0. Whitsell •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ......... G.L

Uoyd E. Wilson ........ G.M.

1925

1930

Albert E. Boyntan ••••• •G.M.
OroYllle Na. 103
Bam Oct. 9, 1875
Died Feb. 22. 19"5
Geo. L. Jones •••••••• D.G.M.
Will H. Fischer •••••• S.G.W.
Gus A. Hutaff •••••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

John St-art Ron •••••• G.M.
El Centro No. 384
Bam May 21, 1879
Died Aug. 31, 1952
Robt. B. Gaylord ••••• D.G.M.
Frank W. Mixtw •••••• S.G.W.
James B. Gist • , •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••. G.T.
John Whlcher •••• , ••••• G.S.
fhoma1 J. Boker ••• , •••• G.L

1926

1931

George L. Jones ••••••• G.M.
Madison No. 23
Barn May II, 1873
Died June 22,, 1956
Will H. Fischer •••••• D.G.M.
Gus. A. Hutaff •••••• S.G.W.
C. M. Wollenberg •••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••. G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••. G.S.
Thomas J. Boker •••••••• G.L

1936

Robt. B. Gaylord •••••• G.M.
Oakland No. 188
Bom NoY. 2", 1876
Died Aug. 4, 1953
Frank W. Mixter •••••. D.G.M.
James B. Gist •••••••• S.G.W.
Wm. A. Sitton •••••••. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
fhoma1 J. Baker •••••••• G.L

Rollie W. Miller •••••••• G.M.
Sunset No. 352
Bom Oct. 17, 1883
Died July 18, 1960
James T. Fraser •••••• D.G.M.
Leon 0. Whitsell ••••• S.G.W.
William H. Waste •••. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••. G.S.
leslle E. Wood ••••••••• G.L

1927

1932

Wiii H. Fischer •••••••• G.M.
Wilshire No. ""5
Bam Sept. 11, 1875
Died Oct. 4, 1953
Gus. A. Hutaff •••••. D.G.M.
C. M. Wollenberg •••• S.G.W.
J. S. Ross •••••••••• • J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••••••• G.L

1937

Frank W. Milder ••••• • G.M.
Exeter No. "2.C
Bam Dec. 30, 1873
Died May 22, 19"7
James B. Gist •••••••• D.G.M.
Wm. A. Sitton •••••••• S.G.W.
It. V. Whiting •••••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher • , •••••••• G.S.
Thomas J. Baker •••• , ••• G.L

James T. Fraser •••••••• G.M.
Humboldt No. 79
Bam Aug. 28, 1868
Died June 26, 1953
Leon 0. Whitsell , •••. D.G.M.
William H. Waste •••• S.G.W.
Willlam B. Ogden •••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whlcher •••••••••• G.S.
leslle E. Wood ••••••••• G.L

1938

Ingleside No. 630

Bom Aug. 16, 1895
Died NOY. 2. 1961
Frank M. Smith •••••• D.G.M.
leslle E. Wood •••• , .S.G.W.
Claude H. Morrison ••• J.G.W.
Wm, Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
John Whicher •••••••••• G.S.
Walter Leonard •••••••• G.L

1943

1948

Claude H. Morrison •••• G.M. Edward H. Siems •••• , .G.M.
San Diego No. 35
Plymouth No. 560
Bam July 10, 1887
Bcirn December 7, 1903
Died No¥. 2, 1953
Ellsworth Meyer •••••• D.G.M.
Gilbert C. Deforest •• D.G.M. Arthur Paulsen •• , •••• S.G.W.
Lawrence C. Kelley •••• S.G.W. Louis C. Drapeau •••• J.G.W.
Arthur W. Brouillet •••• J.G.W. Francis V. K-llng •• , • , .G.T.
Francis V. Keesling •••••• G.T. Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Lloyd E. Wilson • , •••••• G.S,. Arthvr M. Warren •••••••
G.L
Chester H. Warlow •••• , • G.l.
1949

1945
Law,.nce C. Kelley ••• • G.M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Cd. 24, 19"5
Arthur W. Brouillet •••. G.M.
Park No. 449
Bam Jan. 21, 188"
Died Sept. 18, 1953
John R. Moore ••••••• S.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling •••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wiison •••••••• G.S.
Cheater H. Warlow •••• , • G.L

1941

1946

Frank M. Smith •••••••• G.M.
East Gate No. 290
Bam April 1, 1894
Died April 7, 1951
Leslie E. Wood •••••• D.G.M.
Claude H. Morrison , .S.G.W.
G. C. Deforest •••••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer •••••• G.T.
Uoyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
C'-ter H. Warlow •••••• G.L

John R. Moore •••••••• G.M.
Meridian No. 667
Bam Sept, 1893
Died March 21, 1965
Cheater H. Warlow •• , D.G.M.
Edward H. Siems •••• S.G.W.
Ellsworth Meyer •••••• J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling •••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wiison • , •••••• G.S.
Arthur M. Warren • , •••• G.L

1942

1947

LesDe E. Wood , ••••••• G.M.
PraYident No. 60!1
Born April 2. 11197

Chester H. Warlow ••• • G.M.
Fresno No. 2"7
Bom June 30, 1889
Died December 10, 1963
Edward H. Siems •••• D.G.M.
Ellsworth Meyer •••• S.G.W.
Arthur Paulsen ••••••. J.G.W.
Fronds V. Keesling •••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ••••••••• G.S.
Arthur M. Warren •••••• G.L

Claude H. Morrison • , D.G.M.
Gilbert C. Deforest •• S.G.W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ••• J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Fiimer •••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........ G.S.
Chester H. Warlow , ••••• G.L

521

Blaworth Meyer •••••••• G.M.
liberal Am No. 671
Bam Feb. 27, 1905
Arthur Paulsen ••••••• D.G.M.
Louis E. Drapeau , ••• S.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren , ••• J.G.W.
Francia V. Keesling ••• , •• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Walter H. E. van Kansky .G.L

1950
Arthur Paulsen ••••••• , .G.M.
Trinity No. 27
Born May 4, 1890
Died Sept. 20, 1969
Louis C. Drapeau •• , .D.G.M.
Arthur M. Warren •••• S.G.W.
Frank HCll'Well, Jr. , ••• J.G.W.
Francia V. Keesling •••• , • G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ••• , •• , .G.S.
Walter H. E. von Konaky • G.L

1951
Louis C. Drapeau .••••• G.M
Poln..ttia No. 633
•
Bom Aug. 30, 1885
Arthur M. Wanen • , •• D.G.M.
Frank Harwell, Jr••••• S.G.W.
Henry C. Clausen • , •• J.G.W.
Fronds V. Keesling •••• , .G.T,
Lloyd E. Wiison •••••••• G.S.
Walter H. E. von Konaky • G.L

1952
Arthur M. Warren ••••• , G.M.
Mt. DaYidaon No. "81
Bom December 27, 1!101
Died May 21, 1964
Frank Harwell, Jr••• , .D.G.M.
Henry C. Clausen •• , .S.G.W.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr••• J.G.W.
Fronds V. Keesllng •• , • , .G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Elbert W. Davia ••••••••• G.L

1953
Frank Harwell, Jr••••••• G.M.
Beverly Hills No. 028
Bam October 4, 1898
Died Jan. 25, 1966
Henry C. Clausen •••• D.G.M.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr••• S.G.W.
L Harold Anderson ••• J.G.W.
Francia V. Keesllng •••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wiison , ••••••• G.S.
Elbert W. Davia •••••••• G.L

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1954

1960

1966

Henry C. Clausen ...••• G.M.
Ingleside No. 630
Born June 30, 190-'
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr••. D.G.M.
L Harold Anderson •• S.G.W.
Leo E. Anderson ••••• J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems •••••••. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••. G.S.
Elbert W. Davis •••••••. G.L

Alfred F. Breslauer .••. G.M.
Starr King No. 344
Born August 26, 1898
Died January 27, 1971
Guy B. Mize •••••••• D.G.M.
Ira W. Coburn •••••• S.G.W.
Elmer W. Heald •••••• J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren •••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••••. G.S.
Donald G. Campbell •••• G.L

Laurence E. Dayton •••• G.M.
Live Oak Na. 61
Bom Nov. 28, 1900
John F. Porter •••••• D.G.M.
Eugene S. Hopp •••••• S.G.W.
Robert A. Crigler •••• J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger •••••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Harold N. Richards •••••• G.L.

1961

Eugene S. Hopp •••••••• G.M.
King Solomon's Seaport

1955
Edgcn- V. Stewart, Jr••••• G.M.
Loyalty Na. 529
Bom Oct. 3, 1901
Died May 22, 1969
L. Harold Andenon •• D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson •••••• S.G.W.
Phil N. Myen •••••••• J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems •••••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ••••••••• G.L

Guy B. Mize •••••••••• G.M.
Unity Na. 368
Born April 23, 1901
Ira W. Coburn •••••• D.G.M.
Elmer W. Heald •••••• S.G.W.
Theodore Meriam •••• J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren •••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••. G.S.
Donald G. Campbell •••• G.L

1956

1962

L Hen-old Anderson •••• G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1899
Leo E. Anderson •••••• D.G.M.
Phil N. Myers •••••••• S.G.W.
Joe L Shell •••••••••• J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems •••••••. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ••••••••• G.L.

Ira W. Coburn •••••••• G.M.
Doric No. 216
Bom Jan. 26, 1904
Elmer W. Heald •••••• D.G.M.
Theodore Meriam •••• S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith •••••• J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren •••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Donald G. Campbell •••• G.L.

1957

1963

Leo E. Anderson •••••••• G.M.
Hollywood Na. 355
Bom FebNary 20, 1902
Phil N. Myen •••••••. D.G.M.
Joe L Shell •••••••••• S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer •••• J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems •••••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ••••••••• G.L.

Elmer W. Heald •••••••• G.M.
El Centro Na. 38<4
Bom Jan. 7, 1885
Theodore Meriam •••• D.G.M.
Myron E. Smith •••••• S.G.W.
Laurence E. Doyton ••• J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren •••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Donald G. Campbell •••• G.L.

1958

1964

Phil N. Myen •••••••••• G.M.
McCloud Lodge No. A30
Bom, January 12, 1897
Joe L. Shell •••••••• D.G.M.
Alfred F. Breslauer •••• S.G.W.
Guy B. Mize ••••••••• J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems •••••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ••••••••• G.L.

Theodore Meriam •••••• G.M.
Chico No. 111
Bom April 18, 1910
Myron E. Smith •••••. D.G.M.
Laurence E. Dayton •• S.G.W.
John F. Porter •••••• J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger •••••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Donald G. Campbell •••• G.L

1959

1965

Joe L Shell ••••••••••• G.M.
San Diego No. 35
Bom FebNary 18, 1892
Alfred F. Breslauer •••. D.G.M.
Guy B. Mize •••••••• S.G.W.
Ira W. Coburn ••••••• J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson •••••••• G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ••••••••• G.L

Myron E. Smith •••••••• G.M.
Universitv Na. 394
Born Dec. 2, 1906
Laurence E. Dayton ••• D.G.M.
John F. Porter •••••• S.G.W.
Eugene S. Hopp •••••• J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger •••••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Harold N. Richards •••••• G.L.

1967
Na. 260

Born April 25, 1910
Robert A. Crigler •••• D.G.M.
Chester R. MacPhee •• S.G.W.
Herbert A. Huebner •• J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger •••••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Harold N. Richards •••••• G.L.

1968
Robert A. Crigler .•.••• G.M.
John Marshall No. 636
Bom June 28, 1916
Chester R. MacPhee •• D.G.M.
Herbert A. Huebner •• S.G.W.
Lester S. McElwaln •••• J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger •••••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Harold N. Richards •••••• G.L

1969
Chester R. MacPhee .••. G.M.
Golden West Na. "55
Bom June 5, 190-'
Herbert A. Huebner ••. D.G.M.
Lester S. McElwain ••. S.G.W.
William H. Price •••••. J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger •••••••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
Harold N. Richards •••••• G.L

1970
Herbert A. Huebner •••• G.M.
Wilshire Na. 4"5
Bom March 21, 1902
Lester S. McElwain •••• D.G.M.
William H. Price •••• S.G.W.
Raymond A. Ebbage •• J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee •••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ..'.._'._~·~

1971
Lester S. McElwain ••••• G.M.
Yerba Buena No. 403
Bom January 1, 1910
William H. Price ••••• D.G.M.
Raymond A. Ebbage •• S.G.W.
Burton Mtryer, Jr••••• J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee •••• G.T.
Edward H. Siems •••••• G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ••••• G.L

523

LIST OF INSPECTORS
Impecior1

Date of Commission

Dmrid

Niles O. Millar • , , .••••.•••..••.• , ..•..•... July, 1932 .•.....••••.••••• 146
Herbert R. Hargrave ..•••...•..•.. September 15, 1934 .•.••••..•.•••••. 418
Guido de Ghetaldi ...•..•.•.••••.•.•.... October, 1938 ................. 106
Frederic E. Clark ............••.•... January 26, 1944 ...••.••••.••.•.. 560
Edward C. Lohmeyer ..••.••..•.•.. September 27, 1945 ....•••••....•••. 322
Elmer Glen Van Tassell ••...•••.•. September 11, 1948 ...•..•...•...••. 242
Andre L. Armand .••••.••••••••..... January 26, 1951 ...•....•.•....•. 376
Wilfred W. Partridge .•........••..... March 31, 1952 .•.•..•.....••••. 500
Edward Farley •••.•..•.•.....•.•.•...•. May 12, 1952 .......•.•..•.•.. 208
Ray Earl Burdg •....••••.•.•.•••• September 5, 1953 .•..•....••..•.•. 217
Edward C. Will •••••••••..•••..•.••.•.. July 14, 1955 ...••.......•..•• 167
Frank Leroy Sutliff ..•.••••.•..•..... August 9, 1955 .........••..••.. 542
Ralph M. Hinds •••.•••...•••••••...• October 29, 1955 ..••..•.•..••..•• 118
Kenneth Dowell •.••.••..•..•••...... August 20, 1956 .•..••.•.•...••.. 605
James E. Bacon .••••...•......•••. December 15, 1957 .•.•..•••••..•••. 504
Daniel D. Rowlands •.••...•..•••.••..•. April 6, 1959 ..••.......••.... 340
Percy W. Lindt •••••••••.•.•.•.•..•..•. June 4, 1959 ..••••........... 236
Elmer E. Ross •••••••••••••••.•..•..... June 8, 1959 .•••.•........•.• 166
Thurlan Wm. Heidner ••.•......•.. December 15, 1959 •..••.•.•.•....•. 530
Charles J. Wentz •••••...•...•..... December 15, 1959 .••.•.•...•••.••. 626
William Bottorff ••••..••••••••..•...•. April 22, 1960 ..•.••....•...••. 678
Earl James Walker •••••••••••.••..... April 22, 1960 ...•.•..•..•.•••. 621
Ray H. Paine ..................... September 20, 1960 ................. 308
Larry C. Basker .................... January 1, 1961 ................. 156
Herbert H. Hobson ••.•••..••...•••. January 1, 1961 ..•••.....••••••. 148
William E. Marshall •••••.••.•..•... January 27, 1961. ..••....•••.••.. 212
John Clifton Carpenter •••••.•.•.•. September 28, 1961. .••••.••......•. 430
Ralph M. Webb •.•..•..•.••••.••..•. January 1, 1962 ...••••.••••...•. 158
Robert E. Crist .•••••••.•.•..••..•.. January 1, 1962 ..•....••.•...... 688
James D. Kelso .••••.••••••.••..••.. January 1, 1962 .•..••..•••.••.•. 592
Sam I. Bonn , •••••.•.•••.....•..•••. January 13, 1962 .••••••.••.•...•. 215
William Lowell Hurd •.•••.••.•...•... March 14, 1962 ....••..•....••.. 406
Paul Landis Turner ••••••.••..•.•..•... April 5, 1962 ••.•.••...•...... 321
Clyde E. Sinclair •••.••••.•.••••••.. January 1, 1963 ..••.•...••.•.•.. 211
Joseph W. Wright •.••••••••.••••••. January 1, 1963 ..•.•..•.••.•.•.. 107
Hazelton French .••••••.•••.••..•••. January 1, 1963 .•••.••..••••••.. 337
Robert M. Montgomery •..••.....•... January 1, 1963 ..•..•.••.•..••.. 338
Ray L. Peterson •.•••.•...•.....•••. January 1, 1963 ......•....•.•••. 524
Charles H. McAllister ••..••••..••....• March 29 1963 ......••..•...... 384
Leonard D. Babcock •.••.....•..•. September 1, 1963 .•.......•...•... 620
George E. Harrison •.•..••••..•• , .... October 18, 1963 ..•...••.•.•••... 568
Donald J. Shoemaker •••..••••••..••. October 18, 1963 ...••...••.•..... 684
Stephen J. Collins •••••••••••••••••. January 13, 1964 .•...•••.•••..... 536
Robert A. Simon .•••••••.•••....••.. January 13, 1964 .•.•••••..•.••••. 562
Jacob Andrew Feth ..•••.•.•••.••..... March 4, 1964 ...•.•.•••••••••. 214
Al!red LeRoy Hayes ..•.....•.••...••. March 26, 1964 ....•..•.•.•••.•. 210
Shelby F. Passley •.••••..•..••••••.•.•. May 2, 1964 .• ·•.•....••••.••. 422
James E. Wellet ••••••.•••....•.•. November 1, 1964 ...•..•••.••••••. 534
John Burszan, Jr••••.••.••.•.•••.... January 1, 1965 .•••.....•..•••.. 364
Casper J. Weir, Jr•••.••.••••..•••••. January 1, 1965 ..•..••.•.•...••. 320
William W. Dickson, Jr••.•••••••.•.. January 11, 1965 .•..•..•.•..•••.. 616

524
Inspectors

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date of Commissio11

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

District

Donald T. Wright ................... January 26, 1965 ................. 602
Charles K. Schertle ................ February 4, 1965 ................. 564
Joseph Shelborne Babb ... : .... . ........ April 20, 1965 ................. 244
John Duane Williams .................. April 20, 1965 ................. 603
Roland E. Soracco ...................... May 4, 1965 ................. 404
Donald Kenneth Baldwin ............... June 19, 1965 ................. 247
Earl Clifton Lowe ...................... July 12, 1965 ................. 610
Leroy G. Connelly ................ September 20, 1965 ................. 630
Jack R. Vickers .................. September 20, 1965 ................. 518
Frank A. Valentine ................ December 6, 1965 ................. 102
Robert A. Klinger .................. January 4, 1966 ................. 330
Donald Maltby ..................... January 7, 1966 ................. 520
Leo S. Brenneman .•.•..••......•.. February 21, 1966 •........•.•.•••. 432
Arlie R. Fleming ..................... March 4, 1966 ................. 169
Stanley L. Channon •.•..••............. June 21, 1966 ...........•.•.•. 616
John F. Roberts •••.•.••...........•••. July 25, 1966 .•..•....•.•...•. 368
Cornelius Kernan ................. September 29, 1966 ................. 110
Leo B. Mark •••..•.•.•..•........... October 8, 1966 ..•••...•••••.... 370
Phil Campbell .................... November 29, 1966 ................. 628
William A. Krueger ............... November 29, 1966 ..•••...•.••••••. 234
Louis Becker •••.•..........•...... December 6, 1966 ....•••.••.•..••• 333
Robert William Dunwoody •........ December 19, 1966 ...•....••.•.•••• 402
Lyle C. Hall ...................... December 19, 1966 ................. 594
Harold A. Miller .................. December 30, 1966 ................. 162
Willard Holmes Nutting, Jr•......... January 6, 1967 ......•..•..••.•. 152
Cletus 0. Smith .....•••.........•.. January 6, 1967 •......•......••. 552
Robert Wilson Lewallen ............. January 18, 1967 ................. 438
Hershel Chester Brown .............. January 18, 1967 ................. 220
John William Cunning ................ March 22, 1967 ............ .·.... 100
Henry Perry Adams ................... April 7, 1967 ................. 108
Vernon L. Gordon ..................... April 7, 1967 ................. 414
Lee Abram Strong ••.•...•.••.•....•.. April 21, 1967 ....•..•.•.•••••. 608
Robert P. Higgins .....•..•..•......•.•. July 11, 1967 .•..•••.•••••.••. 601
Edwin Wiley Branaum .............. October 14, 1967 ................. 570
John Elias Mikol ................... November 3, 1967 ................. 638
Jacques C. Bourguignon •.......••. November 11, 1967 •...•.•.•.••••••. 546
Walter W. Beck .................... January 1, 1968 ................. 168
Richard Abraham Krug •••....•..•.. January 1, 1968 .•.•...•••.•.•.•. 332
Edward Gail Freeman ............... January 1, 1968 ................. 342
Howard C. Davis ..•••.••.•..•....•. January 1, 1968 ..•.••........... 426
Edward Wayne Schneringer ......... January 1, 1968 ...•....••...•.•. 528
Jerry John Ritch ................... January 251 1968 ................. 512
D. Stanley Powell .................. February 13, 1968 ................. 424
John Reddick .•.•...••......•..••. February 21, 1968 ....•...••••••••. 437
Nick G. Kerhoulas ................. February 26, 1968 ................. 206
Gerald L. Christensen .............. February 29, 1968 ................. 222
Sam M. Pavlovich ..................... April 26, 1968 ................. 416
Robert George Ingram •..•..••.....•.• • . May 31, 1968 ....•..•.•...•.•. 238
Ford Ellsworth Long ................ August 5, 1968 ................. 328
James B. Barbero ................ September 25, 1968 ................. 119
Morton Tooredman ••••.•............ October 18, 1968 ••.•...•••.••••.• 554
Elwood E. Adams •.....•....••.••• November 6, 1968 .••...••••.•••••. 646
Robert G. Smith .................... January 1, 1969 ................. 682

Inspectors

Date of Commissio11

525
District

Elvin A. Drake ..................... January 1, 1969 ................. 566
Roy Jackson Hanville ............... January 1, 1969 ................. 532
George D. Yale ..................... January 18, 1969 ................. 248
John Allen Coulter ................. January 18, 1969 ................. 246
William Harrison Schooler •.......... January 18, 1969 .....•........... 240
Arthur Leland Hughes .............. January 18, 1969 ................. 239
Robert Chester Eulberg ............... March 1, 1969 ................. 694
J. Raymond Craft ..•.•.......•.•...•. March 6, 1969 .••...........•.. 629
John M. Eppler ••......•.•.•.••.....•. April 10, 1969 ......•..•....... 412
Rodney H. Davis •....•...•.•..•.....•. April 28, 1969 ..•.....•.•...••• 624
George E. Sutton ...................... April 28, 1969 ................. 635
George Paul Leung ..................... May 20, 1969 ................. 344
Thomas H. Wright ..................... June 11, 1969 ................. 550
James 0. Fourr .•...................•.. July 15, 1969 ................. 502
Martin Michalec .................. September 26, 1969 ................. 394
Preston Marion Mecum •.....•.... September 29, 1969 .•....••..•.•••.. 224
Maurice Jay Norton ................. October 6, 1969 ................. 576
Ronald A. Sherod ................. November 3, 1969 ................. 634
Harold Everett Scott ......•....... November 13, 1969 ..........•...•.. 522
Grant W. John ..............•...•• December 15, 1969 ........•....••.. 625
Robert Bruce Montgomery ...•....• December 22, 1969 ......•...•....•. 548
Louis Alfred Lasell, Sr.............. January 15, 1970 ................. 219
Roy Franlin Ward .................. January 20, 1970 ................. 372
Michael Schredl .................... January 20, 1970 ................. 378
Walter James Williams ..•........... January 20, 1970 ..•.........•.... 390
Leon McClure ...................... January 20, 1970 ................. 640
Paul William Smith .................. March 4, 1970 ................. 590
Joe Hammond ........................ March 26, 1970 .•..•............ 427
William Franklin Robbins .....•....••. March 26, 1970 ...•. , ......•..•. 644
Floyd Lewis Baker .................... April 11, 1970 ................. 216
Albert Fred Koula ..................... April 11, 1970 ................. 865
Clayton G. Shane ..•..•..........•.....• May 6, 1970 ......... . ....... 250
John Arthur Turnbull .................. May 27, 1970 ................. 582
Irving Zuckerman ••••....•.•....•...... June 12, 1970 ..••..•.......... 556
John Douglas Pringle ................... July 15, 1970 ................. 385
Clarence B. Hart ................. September 22, 1970 ................. 642
Clifford R. Smith .................... October 6, 1970 ................ .411
Samuel Rosen •.......•......•.....•. October 16, 1970 ........•..••..•. 544
John B. Patterson ................... October 16;1970 ................. 572
Roy Francis Knapp .................. October 16, 1970 ................. 696
Eugene R. Gilbertson ................ October 22, 1970 ................. 606
Gene Chesnutt Gregory .....•....... January 1, 1971 .....•.....•...•. 622
Lovell E. Spurgeon ................. January 1, 1971. ................ 204
James Kimball Wilson .............. January 1, 1971. ................ 218
Rodney D. Pillow ................... January 1, 1971. ................ 607
Burns H. Hamlett .•................. January 1, 1971 •.......•........ 614
Merle L. Coon •.••....•.•..•..•...•. January 1, 1971 ....•••........•. 639
William Riddle Worobe .•.••..•••.... January 1, 1971. ..••....•...•.•. 540
Jack L. Craven •.••••.•.....•....•.. January 1, 1971 •...•.•.....•.... 538
James Albert Boyle ................. January 1, 1971. ................ 580
Donald Edwin Weisse ............... January 13, 1971. ................ 150
William Henry Reed ••.•....••....•. January 13, 1971. ••.......•••.•.. 874
Clift'ord Helmuth Bailey ............. January 18, 1971. ................ 892

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

IJUJ>ectors
Date of Commission
District
Thomas R. Waite •.•.....•. .......•. January 23, 1971. ........... •..•. 558
Ernest Wm. Gossett •.•....... ..... February 27, 1971. ......•.•. ..•..• 101
Chas. Victor Mccaul ........•. ..... February 27, 1971. .......... ...... 154
Daniel P. Halstead, Jr••......•. .... February 27, 1971. ••........ ....•. 160
Wm. Melvin Lustenberg er •....•.... February 27, 1971. .......... ...... 324
Thomas Jesus Meraz ....•.....• .•.. February 27, 1971. ..•...•... ...... 334
Alexander K. Bell •....•...• .......... March 5, 1971. ........... .•... 382
Harold M. Hand .......... .......... .. March 19, 1971. .•......•. ....•. 526
Olin M. Heikkola .......... .......... . March 19, 1971. ........... ..••. 574
Verlan R. Wyatt .......... .......... . March 27, 1971. ........... ...•. 431
Thor C. Frederickse n .......... ........ April 2, 1971. ........... ..••. 609
William J. Taylor ..•...••.. ........... . July 26, 1971. .......... ...... 428
Alvin N. Schmitz ........•. .......... August 23, 1971. ..•......• ...... 612
John Tryon Kelley .......... ...... September 2, 1971. •..•.•.... ....•. 436
Pick Alfred Buob .......... ....... September 10, 1971. ...•.....•. ..••. 388
John D. Wilkins .......... ........ September 10, 1971. .•........ ....•. 306
E. Ray Brown .••....... ......... September 10, 1971. .......... ...... 510
Milo A. Ensminger .......... ..... September 11, 1971. •...•...... ..••. 636
William C. Leach ....•...•• ..•.•.. September 11, 1971. .......... ...... 637
John James Nicholas ....•..... ... September 15, 1971. .......... ...... 116
Richard Simon ....•..... .......... September 15, 1971. •..•....... •.•.• 104
Robert Lee Spinney .......... .... September 20, 1971. .........• •..... 161
Clarence L. Green .......... ...... September 23, 1971. •..••...•. ...•.. 410
Harris C. Jackson .......... ......... October 15, 1971. ..•........ ..••. 114
Edwin Richard Brooks .......•.. ..... October 15, 1971. •.......... •..•. 120
William K. McKee, Jr.•........ ...... October 16, 1971. ........... .•.•. 384
Leo R. Muller •.•••..... •..•.....• .. October 30, 1971 ........•.• ..•... 686

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

526

R"opizM - ;,. Prldenul R~ with 11,.
Grtlfld Lodge oj California
Argentina:
Marcial Ruiz Torres, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
A118tr1a:
Hans Kloser Homma, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheerg asse - 12, AlOlO, Vienna I, Austria
Belgium:
Grand Secretary,
265 Rue Royale, Brussels 1030, Belgium.

Bolivia:
Bernardo Hurtado Navarro, Grand S~.,
Casilla Correo No. 564, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Brazil:

The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Joaquim Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Brasilia
Emidio Rodrigues Carreira
Gr. Chancellor of Forei~ Relations
Caixa Postal 1128, BraSilla, D. F., Braiil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Arnaldo Pertence, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
Ildefonso P. Guimaraes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
Grand Lodr of Parana
Antomo Andre Jansson, Gr. Secty.-Chancellor
Caixa Postal 1363, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Pernambuc o
Luiz Soares De Melo, Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 1415, Recife, Pernambuc o, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Jose Fidelia De Araujo, Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No.10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Mauro Cesar Goulart Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal D-33, Fforianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Goias
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 332, Goiana, Estado de Goias, Brazil, S.A.

527

528

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Lodge of the State of Guanabara
Joseph Isaac Kac, Grand Secretary Foreign Office
Caixa Postal 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Guanabara, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Odemar Nacre Gomes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
P.O. Box 8348, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Co.eta, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Kurt Max Hauser, Grand Secty.
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of the State of Mato Grosso
Moacyr Do Carmo, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 130, Campo Grande, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Egydio Vieira Filho, Grand Chanceler
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
Canada:

AlbertaMelvin P. Dunford, Grand Secty,
330-12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British ColumbiaDavid M. Taylor, Grand Secty.,
510 W. Hastings St., Vancouver 117, B.C.
Canada-( Province of Ontario)
J. A. Irvine, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Drawer 217, Hamilton 20, Ontario.
ManitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
420 Corydon Ave., Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3L ONS.
New BrunewickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. O. Box 430, Saint John, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotiaHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
QuebecW. Gordon Parker, Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marke St., Montreal 108, Quebec.
SaekatchewanT. M. Spencer, Grand Secty.,
1930 Lome St., Regina, Saskatchewall.
Chile:

Rene Court Portales, Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S.A.

Ohina:

Lott H. T. Wei, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China.
Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Victor M. Osorio, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aero 6672, Bogota, Colombia, S.A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Rafael Toscano Oepino, Grand Secty.
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Armando Arruzola, Grand Secty.,
Carrera 43, No. 90-108, Barranquilla, Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge ''Francisco de Paula Santander''
Serenieima Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Fernando Luis, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-69, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.
Costa Bica:
Enrigue Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 10060, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba:

Jose Alvarez Rivera Maldonado, Grand Secretary
Apartado 72, La Habana.
Denmark:
National Grand Lodge
E. Hess Thaysen, Grand Secty.
Blegdamevej 23, Copenhagen, benmark.
Dominican Republic:
Alfredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 209, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Eucador:
Hector 0. Sanchez Soriano, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
El Salvador (Cuscatlan) :
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
Sa Avenida Sur No.126, San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A.
England:
James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Great Queen St., London, England.
Finland:

Martti V. Mustakallio, Grand Secty.,
Kasarmikatu 16D, Helsinki 13, Finland.

529

530

PROCEED INGS OF THE

France:
French National Grand Lodge,
RalJllond A. July, Grand Sect7..
65 Boulevard Bineau, 92 Neuilly-llUl'-Seine, Paris, France.

Germany:
United Grand Lodges
Friedrich Heller, Grand Secty.,
Emser Str. 12-13, 1 Berlin 31, Germany.

Greece:
Evanghelos Macrymichalos, Grand Secty.,
Acharnon 19, Athens 109, Greece.
Guatemala:

Lauro A. Rivera, Grand Secty:z..
Apartado 84, Guatemala l..ity, C.A.
Honduras:
Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 135-C, Tegucigalp a, D.C., Honduras, C.A.
Iceland:
Karl Gudmundsson Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (P. 0. Box 404) Reykjavik, Iceland.
India:
P. M. Sundaram, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 681, New Delhi 1, India.
Iran:

Ahmad Aliabadi, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 11-1777, Tehran, Iran.
Ireland:
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemason s Hall, Dublin 2, Ireland.
Israel:

Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Joseph Bar-Ner, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Giuseppe Telaro, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani , 6, Rome, Italy.
J'apan:

Nobea 0. A. Peck, Grand Secty.
1-3, Shibakoen, 4-chome, Mhiato-ku, Tokyo 105, Japan.
Luxembour g:
Rene Gregorius, Grand Secty.,
62 R.F. Gangler, Luxembour g.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA
Mexico:

York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Mino M. Covo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 1986, Mexico 1, D. F., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Ricardo Sandoval Garcia, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 134, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Jesus Loya A., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Prof. Y. Lie. Higinio Guerrero Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Inocencio Higuera Verdugo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Alejandro Meza Garcia, Grand Secty.,
.
F. A. de Olmos, No. 101, Nte. Altos, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Marcial Fernandez Vazquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 66, Veracruz, Ver., Mex.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Manuel Ruiz Esparza, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico 1, D. F.
Netherlands :
Grootoosten der Nederlande n (the Grand East of the Netherland s).
W. Veenstra, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluwelen Burgwal, The Hague, Netherland s.
New South W&les:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
R. G. Connon, Grand Secty.,
281 Castlereag h St., Sydney, N.S.W.
New Ze&land:
P. J. Oliver, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 6439, Welliitgton 1, New Zealand.

•1caragna:
Eli Tablada Solis, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
Rolf Sopler1 Grand Secty.1
Masomc Temple, Neare Vollgate 19, Oslo 1, Norway.
Panama:
Juan E. Urriola R. Grand Secty.
1
Apartado 84, Panama, Repuolic
of Panama.
Paraguay:
Grand Secretary
Casilla Correo 1178, Asuncion, Paraguay, S.A.

531

532

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Peru:
Lizardo R. Lopez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippine s:
Esteban Munarriz, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelino, Manila, P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Juan L. Matos-Cin tron, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurce, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
R. E. Minett Grand Secty.,
Box 2204, G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia .
Scotland:
E. Stuart Falconer, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinburg h, EH2 SDH, Scotland.
Southern Africa:
Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 4999, Johannes burg, So. Africa.
South Australia.:
J. H. R. Garde, Grand Secty.,
Freemaso ns' Hall, North Terrace, Adelaide 5000, So. Australia .
Sweden:
Sigfrid V. Brinck, Grand Secty.,
Frimurare orden, Blasiehol msgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerla nd:
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Jean Wille, Grand Secty.,
Brunngas se 30, 3000 Berne, Switzerla nd.
Tasmania.:
A. J. Barren, Grand Secty .
1
44 Harringto n St., Hooart,
Tasmania .
Turkey:
Nafiz Ekemen1 Grand Secty.,
25 Nuruz1ya Sokak, Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey.
Venezuela:
(Rep. of Venezuel a),
Eloy C. Lira Martin, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
Garnett Jackson, Grand Secty.,
300 Albert St., East Melbourne 3002, Australia .
Western Australia:
D. K. Sawyer, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 6015 (Hay Street East, 6000), Perth, Western Australia .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

533

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

A
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette .
Acom (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexande r Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexande r Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alexandri a (531), San Francisco .
Alhambra (322), Alhambra .
Alisa! (321), Pleasanto n.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha ( 431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgepor t.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista-Mo unt Venon ( 464),
San Francisco .
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.

American River (795), Rancho Cordova.
Amity-Se al Rock (370), San Francisco .
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Bellflower.
Angeles Mesa (625), Hawthorn e.
Antioch (175),Ant ioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Glendale.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia ( 547), Arcadia.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut. .Argonne (461),
San Francisco .
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin ( 738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Torrance.
Ashland (798), San Lorenzo.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascader o (493), Atascader o.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa ( 305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco .
Baldwin Park ( 660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco .
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower ( 523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere Sunrise (522),
Monterey Park.
Benevolence ( 631) , Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills.

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear ( 617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer ( 442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Boron (822), Boron.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingam e (400), Burlingam e.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco .
Calistoga ( 233), Calistoga .
Callayomi ( 282), Middletown.

Camarillo (824), Camarillo.
Camellia (805), Temple City.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramen to.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena .

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Carpinteria ( 444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley ('713), Castro Valley.
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Artesia.
Center ( 465), Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge,
Fresno.
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Chateau Thierry (569), Castro Valley.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla ( 485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Clairemont Mesa (799), San Diego.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Granada Hills.
Claude H. Morrison (747),
· Chula Vista.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis ( 417), Clovis.

Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Coastside (762), Pacifica.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado ( 441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crescenta Valley ( 652), La Creacenta..
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Crossroads ( 696), San Diego.
Culver City ( 467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller ( 765), Torrance.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba ( 385), Dinuba.

Doric (216), San Francisco.
Dos Palos ( 681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Dr;ytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
F
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), El Segundo.
Fallbrook ( 317), Fallbrook.
Far West ( 673), San Francisco.
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Points (779), Long Beach.
Florence (423), Walnut Park.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg ( 361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Francis Drake (376),
South San Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), El Cerrito.
Frank S. Land (819), Los Angeles.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399).l San Jose.
Fremont (497), uakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
Gateway (821), Seaside.
Gemini (825), Fremont.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Rosamond.
Georgetown (26), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los GatOIJ.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden Gate Speranza (80),
San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479),SanJose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), Granada Hills.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Great Lights (818), Santa Clara.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Orinda.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego ( 561), East San Diego.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Camino Research Mountain View.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Hayward.

El Rancho (759), Pico Rivera.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno ( 588), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Escalon ( 591), Escalon.
Estero (719), Morro Bay.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
Euclid (519), Norwalk.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

535

Hamilton (751), Novato.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding ( 584) Los Angeles.
Harmony (164). Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Henry Knox ( 662), Los Angeles.
Henry Morse Stephens (641), Berkeley.
Henry S. Orme ( 458), Los Angeles.
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Manhattan Beach.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.

Highland (748), San Bernardino.
Highland Park ( 382), Los Angeles.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram ( 43), El Dorado.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville ( 425), Holtville.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
San Francisco.
Huntington Beach (880),
Huntington Beach.

536

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LOD GES -Con tinue d

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LOD GES -Con tinue d

I

M

Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imper ial (390), Imper ial.
Indian Wells Valley ( 691), Ridgec rest.
Ingles ide (630), San Franci sco.

James A. Fosha y ( 641),
Playa del Rey.
Jam es A. Garfield ( 566), Los Angel es.
James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
James Madison (572), Playa del Rey.
Janesv ille (232), Janesv ille.
Jewel (374), San Franci sco.
John D. Spreck els (657), San Diego.

Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

J
John Marsh all (636), Beverl y Hills.
John P. Jarma n (669), San Jose.
Joppa ( 508) , San Joaqui n.
Jordan (654), Walnu t Park.
Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Jubile e (604), Santa Ana.
Justic e (549), San Franci sco.

K
Kauai (589), Lihue, Hawai i.
Kawea h ( 665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerma n (420), Kerma n.
Kern River Valley ( 827), Kernville.
Keysto ne (161), Milton.

Kilaue a (330), Hilo, Hawai i.
King David 's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's Seapo rt (260),
San Franci sco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacram ento.
Koola u (801), Kaneohe, Hawai i.

L
La Brea ( 650), Los Angel es.
La Canad a (739), La Cresce nta.
La Cumbr e (642), Santa Barba ra.
La Fayett e (126), Sebastopol.
Lagun a Beach (672), Lagun a Beach.
La Habra ( 659), La Habra .
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lake Chabo t (770), Castro Valley.
Lakes hore (551), Oaklan d.
Lakesi de (760), El Cajon.
Lake Tahoe (707), Al Tahoe .
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Laman da Park ( 627), Pasade na.
La Mesa ( 407), La Mesa.
La Mirad a (778), Buena Park.
Lanca ster (437), Lanca ster.
Landm ark (253), Espart o.
La Parfai te Union (17), San Franci sco.
La Puente ( 446), La Puente .
Larchm ont (614), Los Angel es.
Las Palma s (366), Fresno .
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Laure l (245), Willows.
Lawnd ale (753), Hawth orne.
Lebanon-Pacific (136), San Franci sco.
Leland Stanfo rd (784), Chico.

537

Lemon Grove (736), Lemon Grove.
le Progre s de I'Ocea nie (371),
Honolulu, Hawai i.
Lexing ton (104), El Monte.
Libera l Arts (677), West Los Angeles.
Libert as ( 466) , Bakersfield.
Libert y (299), Santa Clara.
Lincoln (470), San Franci sco.
Lindsa y (416), Lindsa y.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Living ston (658), Living ston.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lomit a (644), Lomit a.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Los Alami tos (809), Seal Beach.
Los Altos (712), Los Altos.
Los Angel es (42), Los Angel es.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos .
Los Cerrit os (674), Long Beach.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Loyalt on (359) Loyalton.
Loyalt y (529), t;;s Angeles.
Luthe r Burba nk (752), Santa Rosa.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.

Maccabee (823), Monte rey Park.
Mader a (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barba ra.
Magnolia Park (715), Burba nk.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manch ester (585), Downey.
Manha ttan (817), Manha ttan Beach.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Marin (191), San Rafael .
Marip osa (24), Marip osa.
Martin ez ( 41), Martin ez.
Mar Vista (820), Newpo rt Beach.
Maui ( 472), Ma'!i.r Kahul ui, Hawai i.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Maya (793), Los Angeles.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602), Hollywood.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Menor ah (623), Los Angeles.
Merced (749), Merced.
Meridian ( 667), Glendale.
Metro politan (646), Los Angeles.
Meudell ( 695), Bakersfield.
Midway ( 426), Taft.
Milita ry Service (570), San Franci sco.
Millbrae (792), Millbrae.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.

Miner al King (720), Visali a.
Mission (169), San Franci sco.
Mission Bay (771), San Diego.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Molino (150), Teham a.
Moneta ( 405), Garde na.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Montebello ( 451), Montebello.
Monte rey (217), Monte rey.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Moreno Valley (804) Sunnymead.
Morga n Hill (463), Morga n Hill.
Morni ngside Park (742), Inglewood.
Morni ng Star (68), Stockton.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mothe r Colony (750), Anaheim.
Mount ain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mount ain View (194),
Mount ain View.
Mount Baldy (815), Ontari o.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackso n (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moria h (44), San Franci sco.
Mount Olive ( 506), Los Angeles.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mt. David son (481), San Franci sco.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altade na.

N
Natom a (64) Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptu ne (619), Long Beach.
Nevad a (13), Nevad a City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheat land.
Norma l Heigh ts ( 632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

North ern Califo rnia Resear ch Lodge,
San Franoisco.
North ern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwa lk (315), Norwa lk.

0
Oakda le (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alame da.
Oaklan d (188), Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacram ento.
Oakwood (743), La Cresce nta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twent ynine Palms .
Occidental (22), San Franci sco.
Ocean Park (369), Santa Monica.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Old West (813), Newhall.

Olive Branc h (269), Tulare .
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontari o (301), Ontari o.
Ophir (33), Murph ys.
Oppor tunity (740), Hawth orne.
Orang e Grove (293), Orang e.
Orient al (144), San Franci sco.
Orinda (521), Orinda .
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnar d (341), Oxnar d.

538

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
p
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palesti ne (351), Los Angeles.
Palisad es (637), Santa Monica.
Palmda le (769), Palmda le.
Palm Desert (826), Palm Desert .
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Spring s (693), Palm Spring s.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes ( 389), Long Beach.
Param ount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francis co.
Park Boulev ard (568), Oaklan d.
Parnas sus-Pre sidio (388),
San Francis co.
Pasade na (272), Pasade na.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patters on (488), Patters on.
Paul Revere (462), San Francis co.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Penins ula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhy n (258), Penryn .
Pental pha (202), Los Angeles.

Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

Perris ( 411), Perris.
Petalu ma (180), Petalum a.
Phoenix (178), San Bernar dino.
Pinnac le (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsbu rg (429), Pittsburg-.
Plaza de Los Angele s (814),
Los Angeles.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymo uth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinse ttia (633), Ventur a.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), Sacram ento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponder osa (700), Fresno .
Porterv ille ( 303), Porterv ille.
Presidio (354), San Francis co.
Progre ssive (578), Los Angeles.
Provid ent (609), Sacram ento.
Pyram id (562), San Francisco.

Q
R

Ramon a (457), Monter ey Park.
Readin g (254), Redding.
Redlan ds (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rim of the World (711), Twin Peaks.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

Sacram ento (40), Sacram ento.
Saint Elmo (697), Oakland.
Saint Helena ( 93), St. Helena.
Saint John's (725), Walnu t Creek.
Salinas (204), Salinas .
San Antonio (694) Bell.
San Benito (211), Hollist er.
San Bernar dino (348), San Bernar dino.
San Buenav entura (214), Ventur a.
San Carlos ( 690), San Carlos.

Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397), Huntin gton Park.
Riverb ank ( 459) , Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisad es.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Rolling H11Is (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500), San Francis co.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smarts ville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russia n River (181), Windsor.

s
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Diegui to (775), Cardiff-by-the-Sea.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Fernan do (343), San Fernan do.
San Francis co-Vic tory (360),
San Francisco.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Sanger (316), Sanger .
San Gorgonio (668), Bannin g.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

539

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LOD GEs- Conti nued
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto .
San Joaqui n (19), Stockton.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
San Leandr o (744), San Leandro.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
Boulder Creek.
San Marino ( 685), San Marino.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
San Pasqua l (452), Pasade na.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbar a (192), Santa Barbar a.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Scepte r (808), West Sacram ento.
Schofield (443), Wahiaw a, Hawaii .
Seafar ing (708), Newpo rt Beach.
Search light ( 567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Securit y (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Sempe r Virens (552), Eureka .
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra (788), Oakhu rst.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierrav ille.
Signal ( 543), Long Beach.

Silverado (782), Napa.
Silver Cord ( 505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel ( 415), Hollywood.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Simi Valley (806), Simi.
Sinceri ty (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta .
Smyrn a (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford.
Sojour ner ( 607), Duarte .
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southe rn Califor nia (278),
San Gabriel.
Southe rn California Resear ch Lodge,
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southla nd ( 618), Glendale.
South Park (563), Hawth orne.
South Pasade na (367),
South Pasade na.
South San Francis co (212), Daly City.
South West (283), Nation al City.
Standa rd (440), Oakland.
Stanisl aus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton ( 498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Fairfield.
Summi t (112), Knight s Ferry.
Sue Garden ( 530), Fresno .
Sunnyside (577), Hawth orne.
Sunnyv ale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surpris e Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hacke tt ( 574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradis e.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehach api (313), Tehach api.
Teham a (3), Sacram ento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Temblo r (477), Fellows.
Temescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautis ta.
The Gabilan (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousa nd Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacram ento.
Tila Pass ( 797), Los Angeles.
Torran ce (447), Torran ce.

Travel ers (692), Sacram ento.
Traver (294), Kingsb urg.
Triad (812), Montebello.
Triang le (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona ( 684), Trona.
Trucke e ( 200), Trucke e.
Truth ( 628), Los Angeles.
Tujung a ( 592), Tujung a.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tustin (828), Tustin.
Two Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian ( 439), Manteca.

540

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
Union (58), Sacram ento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
Univer sity (394), Torran ce.

Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Playa del Rey.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Veritas -Jonath an (545),
San Francis co.

Waikik i (774), Honolulu, Hawaii .
Warre n G. Hardin g (579),
Sacram ento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washin gton (20), Sacram ento.
Wayfa rer (717), Whitti er.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westch ester (703), Playa del Rey.
West Covina (758), West Covina.
Wester n Star (2), Shasta .
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angele s (378),
Los Angeles.
Westm inster (787), Huntin gton Beach.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

u
Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT

v
Vermo nt Square (515), Inglewood.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victori a Palms (810), Riverside.
Victorville ( 634), Victorville.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista ( 687), Vista.
Vitruv ius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
White Pine (555), Weed.
Whitti er (323), Whittie r.
William B. Ogden (816), Hollywood.
William D. Stephe ns (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmin gton (198), Wilmington.
Wilshi re (445), Los Angeles.
Winne dumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodland Hills (811), Canoga Park.
Woodstock ( 491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
Yosemite (99), Merced.

Zenith (768), Van Nuys.

Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaip a (726), Yucaipa.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z

ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Gran d
Lodges have appe ared quart erly in the "California Freemason," copies of which have been
sent to each Gran d Lodge. This progr am will
be continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly and each copy carries addit ional reviews. Hence, they do not appe ar in these
Proceedings.

541

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IND EX FOR 197 1

Atkinson Trust Fund ...... ...... ...... . .... ...... ..... 386,
394, 424
Attendance
Listed (Registration and Mileage Payments) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
Reported • . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
299
Audits
1971 Return s ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...
373
Grand Lodge ...•.. .••.•• ....... ....... ....... ....... .....
368
Index ...... ...... ....•. ...... ...... .....• ...... ...... ...
367
Masonic Foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Masonic Homes . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
381
Memorial Temple . . . • . • • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . • .
429

Accou nting-G rand Lodge
A
In-Dep th Study Committee Comments . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • .
282
Additions and Replacements Reserve Homes
Audit ·• · ..•... ...... ...... . '•...•.• •.••.. •.•••• .•••.. . 386,
400
Advert ising-P ublicat ions--A pplican ts
Resolution Presented • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • . . . • • . . . •
Legislation . • . • . . . . . • . . . • • . . • . • • . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • • . • • • . . . . . .. 326
327
Acknowledgments by Grand Master . . . . . .. . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . • 70
Affiliation Fees Tabula ted ....... ....... .••... ••.... .....• ....
99, 495
Alphabetical List of Lodges . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . • . . .. . . . . . . ..
.. .. 533
Amend Funera l Service
Resolution Presented . . . . • . • . • . • . . . . • . . . . • . . • • • • . . . . • . • . . . •
348
Legislation . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • • • • .
. 349
Amend Ritual
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . • . . . • •
343
Ruled Out of Order . . . . . . . . . . . .• . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • • • . • •
343
Amendments to By-Laws
!eport ed by Grand Secretary (Exhib it B) ....... ...••. ...•.. .
104
wroved by Committee .•.•.. ....... ....•. ....... ...•.• ...•
105
Anniversaries of Lodges . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
...
Cer?ficates for Lodge s-Gran d Master 's Recommendation . . • . . . .• 87
Action By Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • • . • . . • . . • . 45
74
Annual Election ••...• ••..•. ••.... ....... .....•. .....•• .••.•.
•. 363
Annual Return s
Audit .••..• •..••. ....•. ....... ....... ....... ....... •....
373
Details by Lodges •..... .•.... ...... ...... ...•.. ...... ....
495
Membership Reported • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • • • • . •
98
Appendix
General . • • • . • . • • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
459
Special • • • • ·• • •.••.• ..•.•. ....... ..•... ....... ....... ....
367
Application Fees Tabula ted .. . . . .. • . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 495
Appointments
For Year 1971-1972 ....•. ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..•
363
For Communication ...... ...... ...... .. -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
Trustees for Masonic Homes ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... . :
364
Trustees for Memorial Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Committees and Constitutional 'Boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • • • .. 364
460
Appropriation to California Masonic Foundation
Resolution Presented ...... ...... ...... ...... .....• ••.•. ...
350
Legislation ....•. ...•.. .•.... ....... .....• .....• .•••.• ••..
353
Appropriations, Supplemental
Reported ......• •...•. ....... ...... ....... ....•• ...•.• •••
359
Approved .•..•. .•..•. •.••.. ....... ....... ....... ...•. 354,
362
Auditor's Report •..... ...... ...... ...... ...... •..•.. .. 376,
377

543

B
Beques ts-Mas onic Homes Endowment Fund ...... ...... .....
147, 157
Biography, Herber t H. Huebner . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . .
. . . . iii
Blood Banks
Grand Master 's Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . .
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Unfinished Business •..•.. ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... 75, 75
267
Board of Control
Report of ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
176
Members Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . .
468
Board of Library Commissioners (See Library and Museum)
Boards of Relief
Unfinished Business from 1970 ...... ...... ...... ...... ....•.
Name Change to Masonic Service Bureau ...... ...... .... 269, 267
270
Boards of Relief Expense to be Grand Lodge Expense
Resolution Presented . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . .. 345
348
Breslauer, Alfred F. P.G.M.
Eulogy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . 17
Photograph . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . • . • . . . • . • • . • • . • . • . . . . . . . . • . . 29
16
Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit ...... ...... .•.... ...... 386,
389, 418
Budget
Appropriations ...... ...... .•.... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..
376
F"mance C01DJD1t
. tee Comments ...... ...... ...... ...... ...
355, 357
Burt Trust Fund ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .. 386,
393, 422
By...I,aws
Amendments Submitted . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . .
Report of Committee ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .. 104
105

c

California Freemason
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . .
354
Per Capita •..... ...••. ..••.. ..•... ..•... ..••.. .....• .....
Publication Board, Report of . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . • 362
200

544

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

California Masonic Foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Appropriation to-Resol ution ........ ........ ........ ....... 350
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
Audit ........ ........ .•...... ........ ........ ........ ... 435
Budget ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ .. 306
Cash Revenues and Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 7
Clubhouses, Foundation Directors' Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Directors Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 70
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 356
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Reimbursement of Expenses to Grand Lodge ........ .... 61, 77 353
Report of Directors ........ ........ ........ ........ ....... : 304
Scholars hips-Dire ctors' Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
California Masonic Memorial Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190
Audit ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ... 429
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
Cash Reserves and Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
Officers and Trustees ........ ........ ........ ........ ....... 470
Trustees Appointed and Terms ........ ........ ........ .. 197, 364
Trustees Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190
Calling Up Procedures (Gavels used listed at start of each session)
Cemeteries (Masonic ), Report of Committee ........ ........ ...... 236
Centennials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Certification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
V
Change of Dues-Ef fective Date
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Le.
•
• 328
g1s1at1on
........ ........ ........ ........ ........ .......
Change of Lodge Name
Resolutio
. n Presented ........ ........ ........ ........ ... 321 322
Legil
s ation ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ... 322,J 322
Changes of Meeting Place
Report by Gran~ Secretary ........ ........ ........ ...... 97, 105
Report of CollllDlttee on By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Report of Committee on Charters ........ ........ ........ 222, 223
Charters
Arrest of By Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Action By Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Report of Committee ........ ........ ........ ........ ....... 222
Granted ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ . 223
Clandestine Masonry
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Clubhouses---(See California Masonic Foundation)
Code Commission, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 71
Code Revision
Emergent Resolution Presented ........ ........ ... ......... ... 272
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

545

Code Revision
Report of Committee on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . 271
Columbia Temple, Report of Committee • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 204
Commercialism
Report of Committee ........ ..•..... ......•. ........ ..... 206
Commer cialism-P olicy Manual
Reports of Committees ........ ........ ........ .......• •...• 276
Action by Grand Lodge ........ ........ ........ ........ .... 276
Committee Appointments
For Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . .
4
For 1971-72 ........ ..•..... ......•. .•.•...• •....... ..... 460
Committee Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Consolidations of Lodges
Report of Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . 97
Report of Committee on Charters ........ .......• ....•.•. .•.. 222
Constituent Lodges Listed
Alphabetically . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • • . • . . . . . . . . . • • . • 533
Numerically ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ••••.• 495
Constitution Observance
Grand Master's Proclamation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Report of Committee ........ ........ .....•.. ..•..•• ...•.•• 219
Constitutional 'Boards . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . • . . . • 468
Contributions
Christmas and Entertain ment Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . 455
Endowment Fund •...•.. ........ ........ ......•. ........ . 147
Received from Lodges ........ ........ ........ ........ .. 147, 164
Special Reserves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 452
Copyright Notice . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . .
1
Cornerstone Ceremonies, Special Communications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Cornerst ones-Cer emony for Removal
Report of Committee on Ritual ........ ........ ........ ...... 274
Report of Grand Lecturer . .. .. . . .. . . . . .. .. .. . .. • . . .. .. .. . . . 132
Correspondence Committee
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . • . . . . . . 225
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges .....•.. ...•.••. ..•• 541
Covina Home
Covina Entertain ment Reserve Audit • . . • . • • . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . 403
Covina Reserve Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
Redevelopment and Reserve ........ ........ ........ ........ 401
Report of Superintendent ........ ........ ........ ........ .. 143
Report of Trustees •....... ........ ......•. ........ ........ 136
Residents Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
Credentials, Report of Committee ........ ........ ........ ..•••.. . 299
Davis, Elbert W.
D
Eulogy . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . .
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . • . . . . .

19
29

546

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decoto Home (Union City)
Decoto Enterta inment Reserve Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
Decoto Reserve Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 403
402
Redevelopment • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . .
Redevelopment and Reserve ....... ....... ....... ......• ..... 139
Report of Superintendent ...... ...... ...... ...... •..... ..... 401
142
Report of Trustees •..... ...... ...... ...... ...... ....•. ....
136
Residents Listed • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
440
Dedica tions-S pecial Ceremonies • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
. • . . 82
Grand Master 's Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . .
Action by Grand Lodge • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . •. 45
74
Degree Fees Tabula ted ••.... ...... ...... ... . ...... ...... ....
99, 495
Degrees Conferred
Tabula ted by Lodges •..... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .
Totals Reported . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . . . . . . . • • •• 495
98
DeMol ay Liaison Board - Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. • . • 246
Devotional Service . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . .
•. . •
5
Dispensations
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
103
Approved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
• 104
Distinguished Guests
Addressed: Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Attendance Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •. 26
25
Distrib ution Committee
Appointment • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
4
Report of • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . ••
187
Divisions and Distric ts-Ritu al
Realignment of • • . . . • • . • • • • . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
42
Dues
Amendments to By-Laws .....• ...... ...... ...... ...... .• 104,
Tabula tion by Amounts ...... ...... ...•.. ...... ...... ....•• 106
100
Tabula tion by Lodges ••.... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..
495

E

Earthq uake Damage
Grand Master 's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • •
67
Elected Officers •••... ....... ....•. ....... ....... ....... .••..•
3, 363
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization, April 18 AL. 5850
•• 516
Election of Officers ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .....• •.....
.• 363
Endowment Board
Composition of Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Report of • . • • . • • • • • . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . .. 468
147
Endowment Month (See Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund)
Endowment and Trust Funds Audit . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 386
Enterta inment Reserve Audit . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 403

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

547

Establish Policy for Restoring Old Masonic Temples
Resolution Presented •....• ...••. ••..•. ....... •..•.. ..•••. .
318
Legislation ....... .....• .•.... .....• •..... .•.... ....... •.•
321
Eulogies • • . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . • . . • . . . . . •
. . . • 11
Expense Reimb urseme nt-Lod ge Officers
Grand Master's Decision . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . .
Action by Grand Lodge • • . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • . • . . . . . . . . 61
78
Expenses of Boards of Relief
Grand Master 's Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .
Action by Grand Lodge . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . .. 56
76
Expenses of California Masonic Foundation
Grand Master 's Recommendation · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Action by Grand Lodge . . . • • . • . • • . . . . . . . • • . . . • • . . • . . . . . . • . . 60
77
Expenses of Homes Endowment Board
Grand Master 's Recommendation . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . .• 57
76
~diture of Lodge Funds -Past Master s' Dinner
Grand Master 's Decision . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . .
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . • • • . . • . • . . . . • . • . • • • • . . • • • • • 64
80
'Jxpenditure of Lodge Funds- Public School Events
Grand Master 's Decision . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . • . • • . . . . • • .
Action by Grand Lodge • . . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . •. 62
79
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations .....• ...... ..•... ......
509

F

Fees for Affiliation
Amendments to By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . • . . •
Action by Grand Lodge ..••.• ••.••• ••..•• ••.•.. ••..•. ••..... 104
105
Tabula ted by Lodges ...•.. ....... .•..•. .....• •••.• •..•.. 98,
495
Fees for Degrees
Amendments to By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . • . . . • . .
Action by Grand Lodge ...... ...... ...•.. ...... .•.... ....... 104
105
Tabula ted by Lodges •....• ....... .....• •.•... •....• ..... 99,
495
Fees for Degree s-Senio r DeMolays
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . • . • • • •
341
Legislation . . • . • . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . • • . • • . . . . • . . . . . .
342
Fifty Year Button s (See Veteran Button s)
Finance Committee, Report of ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ....
354
Following Forfeit ure-Pe rmit Reinstatement Within One Year
Resolution Presented ....... ....... •..... ..•... ....•. .•...•
Legislation • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 339
340
l'oreign Grand Lodges
Report of Committee on Recognition ...... ...... ...... ...... .
217
List of Recognized Jurisdictions ......• ..•... .....• .•.... ....
527
Form of Application for Degree s-Profi ciency Not Required
Resolution Presented ....... .•.... ..•... ...••• ..•... ....•. •
335
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
33 7

548

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fonn of Application for Degrees -Profici ency Require d
Resolution Presente d • . . . . • • . . • . . • • • • . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . . . • . . • . 333
Legislation • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • • • . 335
Funeral Service
Resolution Presente d ....... ....... •...•.• ....••. ....••. ... 328
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 329

G

Gavels, Used During Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . .
5
General Append ix • . . . • • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . • • . . • . . . . . .
459
Grand Chaplai n, Devotio nal Service . .. . . .. . . .. .. . . .. . . .. . .. .. .. ..
5
Grand Lecture r
Budget .••.... ....... .....•• ....•.• .•...•. .....•. .....•• . 134
Ceremonies ....... ..... . ....•.. ....•.. ....... .•..... ..... 132
Funeral Service Qualification ....... ....... ....... ....... ...• 132
Hawaiia n Masonry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 131
Inspecto ral Corps • • . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . • • . . • 130
Lodge Activities •••... ....... ....... •.....• ....... ....•.. • 131
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . 128
Ritual •....•. ....... ...•... ......• •.•.... .....•. ...•... .. 128
Visitatio n • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . 134
Grand Lodge
Audit ....... ....... ....•.. ....... .••.... .•.•..• ..•.... .. 368
Annual Returns ....... ....... ....•.. ....... ....... ....... 373
Appropr iations ....... ....... ......• .•..... ......• ....•.• . 376
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance .•..... ....... ....... .•..• 369
Cash Revenue and Expenses .....•. ....... ...•..• ....... .•.. 370
Summar y of Receipts, Expenses and Capital Charges . . . . . . . . . • . . 94
Grand Lodges Represe nted . . . . . • . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • . . . . . . . . . . . .
25
Grand Master (See Huebne r, Herbert H.)
Grand Masters ' Conference
Grand Master's Comme nts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . • 30
Grand Oration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • . • . . . . . .
228
Grand Secretar y
Report of • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • • . . . • . . . . 96
Finance Commit tee Commen ts . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . • • • . • 355
Grand Treasur er
Report of . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . • • . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Finance Commit tee Commen ts ....... ...•..• •.•.... ..•.... ... 354
Grand Lodge- Summa ry of Receipts and Disburs ements ...... 94, 3 70
Grievances, Commit tee on
Report of • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . • 108
Trial Records Listed (Exhibi t C) ....... ..•.... .....•. ....•.. 107

H

Hawaii -Assista nt Grand Lecture r
Reports of Commit tees . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • . • • • 275
Action by Grand Lodge •.•.... ....... .•..... .....•. •..••. .. 276

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

549

Hawaii Grand Lodge
Grand Master's Comments • . . . • . . • . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . • . . . . • 3 7
Grand Master's Edict . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • . . . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 40
Guideli nes-Dec laration of Principles . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 41
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Hawaii Visitation . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
36
History of Grand Lodge- Bookle t
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
History of Grand Lodge-S ingle Volume
Grand Master's Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Historical Site Restorat ion and Preserva tion
Report of Commit tee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 301
Homes (See Masonic Homes)
Homes Statistic s
Investm ents ....... ....•.. ...•..• ....... ...•... ....••. .... 405
Residen ts Listed ......• .•..... •.••... .••••. ..•••.• .•.. 440, 450
Stateme nt of Expenses . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
Stateme nts of Reserves for Special Purpose s ....... ....... .. 384, 401
Huebner , Herbert H., Grand Master
Photogr aph . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . • . . • • • . . . • . •
ii
Biograp hy ...•... .••..•. ........ ....•.. ••. .• . . . • • • . . . . . . . . iii
Appoint ments for Communication . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . •
4
Edict . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . • . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . • . • 40
Message . . . . . . . . . • • . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . • • . . . • • 27
Proclam ations ....•.. ...•..• •...... ...•... ....... 89, 90, 91, 92
Receptions and Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . 82
Special Ceremonies . • . . . . . . • • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Special Communications . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 81
Visitations to other Jurisdic tions .. . .. . . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . 87
Identica l Resolutions
Reports of Committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . • . . . • . • . . 277
Action by Grand Lodge .....•. •...... ....... ....... ....... . 278
Increase Size of Public Schools Committee
Resolution Presente d ......• ....... , •....•. •...... ....... .• 312
Legislation ...•..• ....... .•..... ....... ....... ....... ..... 314
In-Dept h Study-G rand Lodge Operatio ns
Report of Commit tee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 278
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 295
In-Dept h Study-P hysical Qualifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . • .
249
Action by Grand Lodge ....... •...... ..•...• ....•.. •••... .. 264
Resolution Presente d ....... •..•... ...•... ....... ....... 329, 331
Inspectors, list of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • .
523
Installat ion of Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . • . • . . . . . . . . . • • 364
Installat ion Service
Resoluti on Presente d . . • . . . • • . . . . . . . • . ..• . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Legislation • . . . . . . . . . • • • . • . . . . • . • • • • . • . • • • . • • . • . • . . . . • . • . 343

550

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Insurance
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 299
Internal Control-Grand Lodge
In-Depth Study Committee Comments ...............•.. ...... 286
Investment Committee, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Investments
Consolidated Portfolio .................. ............•....• . 264
Grand Lodge ....•............. .................. ......... 378
Masonic Homes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 405

J
Jurisprudence, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred to
committee.)

L
Leadership Training
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 53
Legislation Proposed
Section 134.2 (Powers continued)
New Legislation Proposed .................. ............ 308
Legislation . . . . . • . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
Section 158 (Assistant Grand Lecturers)
Amendment Proposed .................. ................. 309
Legislation .......••.•.....• .......•.......... ........ 312
Section 192 (Standing Committees)
Amendment Proposed .................. ................ 312
Legislation ...........•...... .................. ....... 314
Section 328.1 (Wearing of aprons)
New Legislation Proposed .................. ............ 323
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Section 334 (Advertising-Public ations)
Amendment Proposed .....•.•.......... ..•••........... 326
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 327
Section 347 (By-Laws, cont.-Signing By-Laws)
Amendment Proposed .................. .......•...•...• 335
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 335
Section 354 (By-Laws, cont.-Of fees)
Amendment Proposed ...•.............. ...•..•......... 341
Legislation . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . • . . . . 342
Section 356 (By-Laws, cont.-Of dues)
Amendment Proposed .................. ................ 327
Legislation .................. .................. ....... 328
Section 431 (Membership. How acquired)
Amendment Proposed .................. ................ 335
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335
Section 511 (Moral and Physical Qualifications)
Amendments Proposed .................. ... 249, 329, 331, 332
Legislation .................. ............. 264, 331, 332, 333

551

Section 512 (Sound discretion required)
Amendments Proposed .....•............ ........ 249, 329, 331
Legislation ........•.•....•... ......•........... 264, 331, 332
Section 527 (Form of application for degrees)
Amendment Proposed • • • • • . . • . . . • . . . . • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 33 7
Section 546 (Forfeiture of fees)
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 339
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 340
Section 552 (Fees for degrees)
Amendment Proposed .................. ................ 342
Legislation . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Section 571 (Minimum dues)
Amendment Proposed .................. .............•.. 335
Legislation . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335
Section 577 (Remission of Dues)
Amendment and Deletion Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . 345
Section 603 (Boards of Relief)
Amendment Proposed .................. ........ 267, 270, 346
Legislation .................. •........•........ ... 2 71, 348
Section 732 (Automatic expulsion of California member)
Repeal Proposed .........•........ .................. .. 350
Legislation .................. .................. ....... 350
Section 733 (Election to have trial)
Repeal Proposed ..•............... .................. .. 350
Legislation . . . . . . • • . . . • • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 350
Section 734 (Where no election is filed)
Repeal Proposed ...........•.•.... .......•.......... .. 350
Legislation ..•...•........•• .................. ........ 350
Section 735 (Automatic expulsion of foreign member)
Repeal Proposed • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 350
Legislation . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350
Advertising-Publica tion-Applicants
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 27
Amend Funeral Service
Resolution Presented .................. ................- 348
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
Amend Ritual
Resolution Presented . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
Ruled Out of Order . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
Appropriation to California Masonic Foundation
Resolution Presented ............•..... ..............•.. 350
Legislation .......•.......... .•......••........ •...•.. 353
Boards of Relief Expense to be Grand Lodge Expense
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 345
Legislation .................. .....•....... • • . . . . . . • • . . 348

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Change of Dues-Ef fective Date
Resolution Presented ...•.... ...•.... ....•... ....•.•• .. 327
Legislation . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . 328
Change of Lodge Name
Resolution Presented ..•..... ..•..... ....•... ...••.• 321, 322
Legislation .•.•.•. •...•... •..•.... •....... ....•... .... 322
Establish Policy for Restoring Old Masonic Temples
Resolution Presented ........ ........ •......• .•.•.... .. 318
Legislation ........ ........ ........ ..•..•• ........ ..•. 321
Fees for Degrees- Senior DeMolays
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 341
Legislation . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . 342
Following Forfeitu re-Perm it Reinstatement Within One Year
Resolution Presented ........ ........ ........ ........ .. 339
Legislation . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 340
Form of Application for Degrees- Proficien cy Not Required
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . . 335
Legislation . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • • • . • • . . . . . . . . . . . 33 7
Form of Application for Degrees- Proficien cy Required
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . 333
Legislation . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . • • . • . . . . . 335
Funeral Service
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . • . . . . . . . • . • . . . . • . . . 328
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 329
Increase Size of Public Schools Committee
Resolution Presented ......... ...•.... ••.•... ..•.••. .... 312
Legislation . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 314
Installation Service
Resolution Presented . . • . . . . . . . . • • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . 342
Legislation . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . • . . • . • 343
Limit Grand Master's Executive Functions
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 309
Legislation ........ .......• ........ •••••.. ..•..... .... 312
Masonic Plaque or Sign with Emblem at Entrance to City
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • . • . . . . . . . 324
Legislation . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 325
Master Mason-D istinguis hed Service Certificate
Resolution Presented ........ •..... ·• • • . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . 308
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
Physical Qualification
Resolution Presented ........ ........ .....•.. ....... 329, 331
Legislation ........ ..•..... ...•.... •....... .•...... 331, 332
Reduce Age Limit-D eMolays
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 332
Legislation . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 333
Remission of Dues in Advance
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 343
Legislation . • . . . . . . . . . • • • . • . . . . . . • . • • . . . . . . . . . • . • • • . • . 345

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

553

Repeal Certain Trial Sections C.M.C.
Resolution Presented . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . • . . . 349
Legislation ....•... .....•.. .....•.. ....•... .......• •.• 350
Restore Masonic Temple at Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park
Resolution Presented . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 314
Legislation . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • • • 317
Restore Temple at Benicia as a Masonic Shrine
Resolution Presented . . • . . . • . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . • • . . . • • . • • . • 317
Legislation . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • 318
Shorten Forfeiture Period
Resolution Presented ........ ......•. ........ ...... 337, 338
Withdrawn ........ •....... ..•..... ........ ....... 338, 339
Wearing of Aprons
Resolution Presented ........ ...•.•. ........ ........ ... 323
Legislation . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Library and Museum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . 194
Library Commission
Report of Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Limit Grand Master's Executive Functions
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . 309
Legislation ........ ........ ...•.... .•...... ........ ....... 312
Lodge Financing, Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 208
Lodges
Alphabetical List . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533
Anniversaries . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Charter Authorized ........ •....... .......• ........ ........ 223
Extinct and Consolidated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . • . . 509
Numerical List .•...... .•... ·........ ........ •....... ...... 495
Los Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles)
Luckenbach Fund Audit ........ ........ •...•.. ........ . 386, 388, 419

M
Masonic Clubhouses (See California Masonic Foundation)
Masonic Float-R ose Parade
Grand Master's Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • • . . . . . • . • 66
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . . 78
Masonic History, Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Masonic Homes
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund 'Balances .......• ..•.•... 382
Audit ........ .......• ..•..... ..•....• ..•...•. .....••. ••. 381
Decoto Redevelopment ...•..•. •••..... .•••..• ...••..• ...... 139
Expenses • . • . • . • • . . • • . . • . . . . . . • . • . • • . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . 385
List of Trustees •...•.•. •....... ...•.... •..••..• •••.... 364, 469
Per Capita . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • • . . • • 362
Report of Endowment Board •.....•. .......• ....•••. ......• 147
Report of Superintendent, Covina . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . • . . . . 143
Report of Superintendent, Union City ..•....• ...•...• ..•.•.•• 142
Report of Trustees .•....•• •...••.. .•.•.... .•..•... ••..•.• . 136
Trustees Reappointed . • • • . . • . . . . • • . . . • . • • . . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • 364

554

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund
Audit •......•....•.... .............. .... ........ 386, 387, 409
Bequests .................. .................. .......•• 147, 157
Contributions Through Lodges .................. ......... 147, 164
Members and Officers, 1971-72 ....•............. ............ 468
Memorials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158
Proclamation of Grand Master .... . ....... .... .. ·.. .. . . .. . .. . . 91
Report of Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 147
Service Roll ........ : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151
Masonic Information and Responsibility
Report of Committee .................. .................. ..• 232
Masonic Plaque or Sign with Emblem at Entrance to City
Resolution Presented .................. .................. .. 324
Legislation .................. .................. ........... 325
Master Mason-Distinguishe d Service Certificate
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 308
Legislation .................. .................. ........... 309
Master Masons' Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Mechanization-Gra nd Lodge
In-Depth Study Committee Comments .................. ...• 292
Meeting Place
Changes Listed by Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Grand Lodge Action .........••.•..... ..................• •• 106
Members' Contributions by Lodges .................. ........ 164, 495
Membership
Grand Secretary's Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • 98
Tabulated by Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 495
Memorial Contributions .................. .............. 147, 158, 453
Memorial Service
Devotional . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
Necrology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
Meserve Trust Fund •................. ................. 386, 395, 426
Message of Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Mileage Payments
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Tabulation of Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 71
Mortgage Burning Ceremony
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
·ceremony . . • • . • . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 4 7
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74

1

Dispensations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Institution .......... ... ............... ... ............. 82, 97

0

•

Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of for 1971-72 .............. ...... .. . ....... .. 363
Attendance from other Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Election of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363
Installed for 1971-72 ....... ... ....... .. ............ ...... 364
Present at Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Since Organization .................. .................. .... 516
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles-Report of Committee on ...... .. 206
Opening of 122nd Annual Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Oration by Grand Orator ............ .................. ......... 228
Organization-Grand Lodge
In-Depth Study Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 280

p

N

Necrology, Report of Committee . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
New Lodges
Charter Authorized . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . 222

555

•

Past Grand Masters
List Since Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 516
Present at Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
Visitors at Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Past Masters and Wardens-Necrology Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Pay of Members
Report of Committee .................. .................. .. 300
Tabulation of Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 71
Pensions (See Retirement Pension Plan)
Per Capita
Payment by Lodges .................. .................. ... 495
Rate for fiscal year ending June, 1972 .................. .... 362
Perine Endowment Fund Audit .................. ...... 386, 390, 418
Permanent Endowment Fund ....... ... .... ... .... ..... . . 386, 387, 409
Peterson Fund .................. .................. .... 386, 396, 427
Pflueger, Paul A.
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Plaque Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Physical Qualification
Resolution Presented .................. ................ 329, 331
Legislation .................. .................. ........ 331, 332
Physical Qualifications
In-Depth Study Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
Action by Grand Lodge .................. .................. 264
Resolution Presented .................. ................ 329, 331
Policy and General Purposes, Committee on (Reported separately on
items referred to committee.)
Priorities (See Study of Priorities)

556

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

Proclamations
Constitution Observance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Masonic Homes Endowment Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Public Schools Week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Youth Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
89
Property Fund (Homes) ...... ...... ... . . . ...... .... . .......
.. 386
Public Information
Report of Committee . .... . ...... ...... ...... ...... ....... ..
298
Public Schools
Cornerstones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dedications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Proclamation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
214

Historical Site Restoration and Preservation ...... ...... ...... ..
301
In-Dep th Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
248
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Investment ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .. . .. 299
264
Jurisprudence (Repor ted separately on items referred to Committee)
Library Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
242
Lodge Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
208
Masonic History ....... ... . ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .
201
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ...... ...... ...... ...... ..
147
Masonic Homes Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Masonic Information and Responsibility ...... ...... ...... ... 136
232
Memorial Temple Trustees ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .. :
Necrology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
206
Pa:y: of Members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
300
Policy and General Purposes (Reported separately on items referred
to Committee)
Public Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
298
Public Schools ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ...... ...... ...... ...... 214
217
Retirement Pension Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Board of Relief Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296
272
Ritual (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Taxation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Activities ...... ...... . . ...... ...... ...... ...... .... 198
244
Reports of Officers
Grand Chapla in-Dev otional Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
Grand Lecturer ...... . .. ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .....
128
Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Orator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 7
228
Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
896
Grand Treasu rer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
93
Representatives of Lodges
Attendance Reported ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... . .
Roster of Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
4 71
Reserves for Special Purposes Homes Audit
Additions and Replacements . ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .
400
Covina Enterta inment Reserve ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
403
Covina Redevelopment ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
Covina Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 401
402
Decoto Entertainment Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
403
Decoto Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. Unappropriated Reserve ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... 402
403
Residents at Homes
·
Covina ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... . . .. . ..... .. ·....... .
Union City ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ; .... , . . . . . . . . . . . 450
440
Resolutions
Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
308
Grand Master's Actions ...... . ...... ...... .. . ...... .... 322,
343
Withdrawn ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .. 329, 338,
339

R
Receptions and Breakfasts Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 82
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Recognized Jurisdictions ...... ...... ...... . . ...... ...... ...
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 527
217
Reduce Age Limit- DeMol ays
Resolution Presented . ...... ...... ...... ...... ... - . . . . . . . . .
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332
Registration and Mileage Payments ...... ..... . ...... ...... ..... 333
471
Relief for Mentally Impaired Adult Child
Grand Master's Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
77
Remission of Dues in Advance
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
345
Repeal Certain Trial Sections C.M.C.
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legislation ...... ...... ...... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
350
Reports of Committees
Board of Control ...... ...... ...... ....... ...... ...... .....
By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176
105
California Freemason Publication Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
California Masonic Foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. 200
304
Cemeteries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236
Code Commission . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
271
Code Revision ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..
271
Columbia Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Commercialism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. 204
Constitution Observance ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... 206
Correspondence ...... ..... . ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... . 219
Credentials ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..... 225
DeMolay Liaison Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
187
Finance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
354
Grievances ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .....
108

557

558

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Restore Masonic Temple at Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park
Resolution Presented ..................................... . 314
Legislation .............................................. . 317
Restore Temple at Benicia as a Masonic Shrine
Resolution Presented ...................................... . 317
Legislation .............................................. . 318
Retirement Pension Plan
Report of Committee ..................................... . 296
Retirement Pension Plan-Board of Relief Employees
Report of Committee ..................................... . 272
Ritual, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred to
committee.)
Roll Call ................................................... .
3
Rose Parade-Masonic Float (See Masonic Float-Rose Parade)

s
Service Roll (Endowment Fund) ................................ 151
Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Monday Afternoon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Tuesday Morning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190
Tuesday Afternoon ........................................ 214
Wednesday Morning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 267
Thursday Morning ........................................ 308
Thursday Afternoon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
Friday .................................................. 363
Seventy-Five Year Pins
Grand Secretary's Report .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. 113
Grand Master's Recommendation-Ceremony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Shorten Forfeiture Period
Resolution Presented ................................... 337, 338
Withdrawn ........................................... 338, 339
Special Appendix ............................................. 367
Special Ceremonies Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Special Committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 464
Special Communications Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Standing Committees .......................................... 460
Student Aid Fund Audit ............................... 386, 392, 420
Study of Committees and Boards
Reports of Committees .................................... 277
Action by Grand Lodge ................................... 277
Study of Priorities
Grand Master's Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Supplemental Appropriations
Auditor's Report ...................................... 376, 377
Finance Committee Report ................................. 360
Grand Treasurer's Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93

r'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Suspension of Masters ....................................... 54,
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

559
56
76

T

•

Taxation, Report of Committee on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Telegrams, Sent and Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
Testamentory Gifts ....................................... 147, 157
Tiler (See voting by Tiler)
Title Page . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Trial Records
Listed ................................................... 107
Committee on Grievances Report ............................ 108
Trust Funds Audit ............................................. 386
Tustin Lodge U.D.-Charter Authorized ......................... 223

u
Unappropriated Reserve Audit .................................. 403
Unfinished Business From 1970 ............................... 96, 267
Unfinished Business for 1972
Code Revision ............................................ 272
Commercialism - Policy Manual ............................ 276
History of Grand Lodge - Hard Back ...................... 32, 72
Priorities - Study of ..................................... 65 78
Public Schools Committee - Increase Size ................ 312, 314
Phys1'cal Qual'fi
.
1 cations
.................................. 248, 264
Seventy-five Year Pins .................................... 46, 74
Veteran Buttons
V
Seventy-five Year Buttons ..................................... 113
Fifty Year Button Recipients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Voting by Tiler of a Lodge
Grand Master's Decision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

w

Wadleigh Fund Audit .................................. 386, 391 420
Wearing of Aprons
'
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Youth Activities
Y
Grand Master's Comments .............................. 33, 34
Letter to Masters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Grand Master's Proclamation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Report of Committee on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 244
Speakers at Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

